{"id": "250062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250062", "title": "Abbé Faria", "text": "Abbé Faria\n\nAbbé Faria (), or Abbé (Abbot) José Custódio de Faria (31 May 1756 – 20 September 1819), was a Luso-Goan Catholic monk who was one of the pioneers of the scientific study of hypnotism, following on from the work of Franz Mesmer. Unlike Mesmer, who claimed that hypnosis was mediated by \"animal magnetism\", Faria understood that it worked purely by the power of suggestion. In the early 19th century, Abbé Faria introduced oriental hypnosis to Paris.\n\nHe was one of the first to depart from the theory of the \"magnetic fluid\", to place in relief the importance of suggestion, and to demonstrate the existence of \"autosuggestion\"; he also established that what he termed \"nervous sleep\" belongs to the natural order. From his earliest magnetizing séances, in 1814, he boldly developed his doctrine. Nothing comes from the magnetizer; everything comes from the subject and takes place in his imagination generated from within the mind. Magnetism is only a form of sleep. Although of the moral order, the magnetic action is often aided by physical, or rather by physiological, means–fixedness of look and cerebral fatigue.\n\nFaria changed the terminology of mesmerism. Previously, the focus was on the \"concentration\" of the subject. In Faria's terminology the operator became \"the concentrator\" and somnambulism was viewed as a lucid sleep. The method of hypnosis used by Faria is command, following expectancy. The theory of Abbé Faria is now known as Fariism.\n\nLater, Ambroise-Auguste Liébeault (1864–1904), the founder of the Nancy School, and Émile Coué (1857–1926), father of applied conditioning, developed the theory of suggestion and autosuggestion and began using them as therapeutic tools. Johannes Schultz developed these theories as Autogenic training.\n\nJosé Custódio de Faria was born in Candolim, Bardez in the erstwhile territory of Portuguese Goa, on 31 May 1756. He was the son of Caetano Vitorino de Faria of Colvale, and Rosa Maria de Sousa of Candolim. He also had an adopted sister, Catarina who was an orphan. Caetano was in turn a descendant of Anantha Shenoy, a Goud Saraswat Brahmin, village clerk and Patil of the same village who converted to Christianity in the 16th century. He was a Goan Catholic of the \"Bamonn\" caste, and was also of partial African descent.\n\nSince his parents had irreconcilable differences, they decided to separate and obtained the Church's dispensation. Caetano Vitorino joined the seminary to complete his studies for the priesthood (which he had interrupted to get married), and Rosa Maria became a nun, joining the St. Monica convent in Old Goa, where she rose to the position of prioress.\n\nThe father had great ambition for himself and his son. Hence, Faria reached Lisbon on 23 December 1771 with his father at the age of 25. After a year they managed to convince the King of Portugal, Joseph I, to send them to Rome for Faria Sr. to earn a doctorate in theology, and the son to pursue his studies for the priesthood.\n\nEventually, the son too earned his doctorate, dedicating his doctoral thesis to the Portuguese Queen, Mary I of Portugal, and another study, on the Holy Spirit to the Pope. Apparently His Holiness was sufficiently impressed to invite José Custódio to preach a sermon in the Sistine Chapel, which he himself attended.\n\nOn his return to Lisbon, the Queen was informed by the Nuncio of the Pope's honour to Faria Jr. So, she too invited the young priest to preach to her as well, in her chapel. But Faria, climbing the pulpit, and seeing the august assembly felt tongue tied. At that moment his father, who sat below the pulpit, whispered to him in Konkani: \"Hi sogli baji; cator re baji\" (they are all vegetables, cut the vegetables). Jolted, the son lost his fear and preached fluently.\n\nFaria Jr., from then on, often wondered how a mere phrase from his father could alter his state of mind so radically as to wipe off his stage fright in a second. The question would have far reaching consequences in his life.\n\nHe was implicated in the Conspiracy of the Pintos during 1787, and left for France in 1788. He stayed in Paris residing at Rue de Ponceau.\n\nIn Paris, he became a leader of one of the revolutionary battalions in 1795, taking command of one of the sections of the infamous \"10 of the Vendémiaire\", which attacked the infamous French Convention, taking an active part in its fall. As a result, he established links with individuals like Chateaubriand, the Marquise of Coustine. He was also a friend of Armand-Marie-Jacques de Chastenet, Marques of Puységur (a disciple of Franz Anton Mesmer), to whom he dedicated his book \"Causas do Sono Lúcido\" (\"On the Causes of Lucid Sleep\").\n\nIn 1797 he was arrested in Marseille for unknown reasons, and sent by a law court to the infamous Chateau d'If in a barred police carriage. He was shut up in solitary confinement in the Chateau. While imprisoned he steadily trained himself using techniques of self-suggestion.\n\nAfter a long imprisonment in the Chateau, Faria was released and returned to Paris.\n\nIn 1811, he was appointed Professor of Philosophy at the University of France at Nîmes, and was elected member of the \"Société Medicale de Marseille\" at Marseille.\n\nIn 1813 Abbé Faria, realising that animal magnetism was gaining importance in Paris, returned to Paris and started promoting a new doctrine. He provoked unending controversies with his work \"Da Causa do Sono Lúcido no Estudo da Natureza do Homem\" (On the cause of Lucid Sleep in the Study of the Nature of Man), published in Paris in 1819 and was soon accused of being a charlatan.\n\nHe retired as chaplain to an obscure religious establishment, and died of a stroke in Paris on 30 September 1819. He left behind no addresses and his grave remains unmarked and unknown, somewhere in Montmartre.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "525001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525001", "title": "Alaska Natives", "text": "Alaska Natives\n\nAlaska Natives are indigenous peoples of Alaska, United States and include: Iñupiat, Yupik, Aleut, Eyak, Tlingit, Haida, Tsimshian, and a number of Northern Athabaskan cultures. They are often defined by their language groups. Many Alaska Natives are enrolled in federally recognized Alaska Native tribal entities, who in turn belong to 13 Alaska Native Regional Corporations, who administer land and financial claims.\n\nAncestors of Alaska Natives migrated into the area thousands of years ago, in at least two different waves. Some are descendants of a third wave of migration in which people settled across the northern part of North America. They never migrated to southern areas. For this reason, genetic studies show they are not closely related to Native Americans in South America.\n\nThroughout the Arctic and the circumpolar north, the ancestors of Alaska Natives established varying indigenous, complex cultures that have succeeded each other over time. They developed sophisticated ways to deal with the challenging climate and environment, and cultures rooted in the place. Historic groups have been defined by their languages, which belong to several major language families. Today, Alaska Natives comprise over 15% of the population of Alaska.\n\nThe Alaska Natives Commission estimated that there were about 86,000 Alaska Natives living in Alaska in 1990, with another 17,000 who lived outside Alaska. A 2013 study by the Alaska Department of Labor and Workforce Development documented over 120,000 Alaska Native people in Alaska. While the majority of Alaska Natives live in small villages or remote regional hubs such as Nome, Dillingham, and Bethel, the percentage who live in urban areas has been increasing. In 2000, 38% lived in urban areas, compared to 44% in the 2010 census.\n\nArriving from Siberia by ship in the mid-eighteenth century, Russians began to trade with Alaska Natives. New settlements around trading posts were started by Russians, including Russian Orthodox missionaries. These were the first to translate Christian scripture into Native languages. British and American traders generally did not reach the area until the nineteenth century, and in some cases missionaries were not active until the twentieth century. In the 21st century, the numerous congregations of Russian Orthodox Christians in Alaska are generally composed mostly of Alaska Natives.\n\nRather than hunting the marine life, the Russians forced the Aleuts to do the work for them. As word spread of the riches in furs to be had, competition among Russian companies increased and they forced the Aleuts into slavery. Catherine the Great, who became Empress in 1763, proclaimed good will toward the Aleut and urged her subjects to treat them fairly. The growing competition between the trading companies, merging into fewer, larger and more powerful corporations, created conflicts that aggravated the relations with the indigenous populations. Over the years, the situation became catastrophic for the natives.\n\nAs the animal populations declined, the Aleuts, already too dependent on the new barter economy created by the Russian fur trade, were increasingly coerced into taking greater risks in the dangerous waters of the North Pacific to hunt for more otter. As the Shelikhov-Golikov Company and later Russian-American Company developed as a monopoly, it used skirmishes and systematic violence as a tool of colonial exploitation of the indigenous people. When the Aleut revolted and won some victories, the Russians retaliated, killing many and destroying their boats and hunting gear, leaving them no means of survival.\n\nThe most devastating effects were from disease: during the first two generations (1741/1759-1781/1799 AD) of Russian contact, 80 percent of the Aleut population died from Eurasian infectious diseases. These were then endemic among the Europeans, but the Aleut had no immunity against the new diseases.\n\nGeopolitical reasons drove the Tsarist government to expand into Indigenous territory in present day Alaska, spreading Russian Orthodoxy and consuming the natural resources of the territory along their way.Their movement into these populated areas of Indigenous communities altered the demographic and natural landscape. The idea Russian-American Company used Indigenous populations for inexpensive labour and exploited them for the companies profit has been suggested by historians.The fur trade led the Russian American Company to not only use Indigenous populations for labour, but to also use them as hostages to acquire iasak. Iasak, a from of taxation used by the Russians , was a tribute in the form of otter pelts. It was a taxation method the Russians had previously found useful in their early encounter with Indigenous communities of Siberia during the Siberian fur trade.Beaver pelts were also customary to be given to fur traders upon first contact with various communities. \n\nThe Russian American Company used military force type tactics on Indigenous families as they were taken hostage and held until the male community members brought forth furs. Otter furs on Kodiak Island and Aleutian Islands enticed the Russians to start these taxations. Robbery and maltreatment in the form of corporal punishment and the withholding of food was also present upon the arrival of fur traders. Catherine the Great dissolved the giving of tribute in 1799, and instead instituted a mandatory conscription of Indigenous men between the ages of 18 to 50 to become seal hunters strictly for the Russian American Company. Mandatory service of Indigenous men gave the Russian American Company ground for competition with other American and British fur traders.The conscription of mandatory labour separated men from their families and villages thus altering and breaking down communities. With able-bodied men away on the hunt, villages were left with little protection as as only women, children, and the elderly were left behind. All aspects of Indigenous life changed because of Russian contact, the spread of disease altered populations of communities and conscription sent men far away. Although records kept in the period were scare, it can be said that 80% of the pre-contact population of the Aleut people were gone by 1800.\n\nRelationships between Indigenous women and fur traders increased as Indigenous men were away from villages. This resulted in marriages and children that would come to be known as Creole peoples, children who were Indigenous and Russian. To reduce hostilities with Aleutiion communities, it became policy for fur traders to enter into marriage with Indigenous women which also helped grow a strong Creole population in the territory controlled by the Russian American Company. \n\nThe growth of the Russian Orthodox Church was an important tactic in the colonization and conversion of Indigenous populations. Ioann Veniaminov was an important religious saint who carried out the agenda for the Orthodox Church to Christianize Indigenous populations. Creole children were to be brought up following Russian Orthodox Christianity, as well as have an education provided for them by the Russian American Company. Creole people were considered to have high levels of loyalty towards the Russian crown and Russian American Company. After completing their education , children were often sent to Russia where they would stud skills such as mapmaking, theology, and military intelligence. \n\nIn 1971 the United States Congress passed the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA), which settled land and financial claims for lands and resources which the peoples had lost to European Americans. It provided for the establishment of 13 Alaska Native Regional Corporations to administer those claims. Similar to the separately defined status of the Canadian Inuit and First Nations in Canada, which are recognized as distinct peoples, in the United States, Alaska Natives are in some respects treated separately by the government from other Native Americans in the United States. This is in part related to their interactions with the US government in a different historic period than indigenous peoples in the colonies and early federal period.\n\nEuropeans and Americans did not have sustained encounters with the Alaska Natives until the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, when many were attracted to the region in gold rushes. The Alaska Natives were not allotted individual title in severalty to land under the Dawes Act of 1887 but were instead treated under the Alaska Native Allotment Act of 1906.\n\nIt was repealed in 1971, following ANSCA, at which time reservations were ended. Another characteristic difference is that Alaska Native tribal governments do not have the power to collect taxes for business transacted on tribal land, per the United States Supreme Court decision in \"Alaska v. Native Village of Venetie Tribal Government\" (1998). Except for the Tsimshian, Alaska Natives no longer hold reservations but do control some lands. Under the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, Alaska Natives are reserved the right to harvest whales and other marine mammals.\n\nGathering of subsistence food continues to be an important economic and cultural activity for many Alaska Natives. In Utqiagvik, Alaska in 2005, more than 91 percent of the Iñupiat households which were interviewed still participated in the local subsistence economy, compared with the approximately 33 percent of non-Iñupiat households who used wild resources obtained from hunting, fishing, or gathering.\n\nBut, unlike many tribes in the contiguous United States, Alaska Natives do not have treaties with the United States that protect their subsistence rights, except for the right to harvest whales and other marine mammals. The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act explicitly extinguished aboriginal hunting and fishing rights in the state of Alaska.\n\nBelow is a full list of the different Alaska Native cultures, which are largely defined by their historic languages. Within each culture are many different tribes.\n\n\nLinks 1 & 5 are stale\n\n1. ^ Alaska Department of Labor & Workforce Development. (2006). \"Table 1.8 Alaska Native American Population Alone By Age And Male/Female, July 1, 2006.\" Alaska Department of Labor & Workforce Development, Research & Analysis. Retrieved on 2007-05-23.\n2. ^ Jump up to: a b Taylor, Alan (2001) American Colonies: The Settling of North America Penguin Books, New York p. 452\n3. Jump up ^ \"Aleut History\", The Aleut Corporation Archived November 2, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.\n4. ^ Jump up to: a b Elizabeth Barrett Ristroph, \"Alaska Tribes' Melting Subsistence Rights,\" 1 Arizona Journal of Environmental Law & Policy 1, 2010, Available at https://web.archive.org/web/20110811064534/http://ajelp.com/documents/RistrophFinal.pdf\n5. Jump up ^ URS CORP., BARROW VILLAGE PROFILE 4.3-6 (2005), available at http://www.north-slope.org/information/comp_plan/BarrowVillageProfile06.pdf\n6. Jump up ^ 43 U.S.C. § 1603(b) (2006)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "409262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409262", "title": "Alonzo Mourning", "text": "Alonzo Mourning\n\nAlonzo Harding Mourning Jr. (born February 8, 1970) is an American retired professional basketball player, who played most of his 15-year National Basketball Association (NBA) career for the Miami Heat.\n\nNicknamed \"Zo\", Mourning played at center. Following his college basketball career at Georgetown University, his tenacity on defense twice earned him NBA Defensive Player of the Year Award and perennially placed him on the NBA All-Defensive Team. Mourning made a comeback after undergoing a kidney transplant and later won the 2006 NBA Championship with the Heat. Mourning also played for the Charlotte Hornets and New Jersey Nets. On March 30, 2009, Mourning became the first Miami Heat player to have his number retired. Since June 26, 2009, Mourning has served as Vice President of Player Programs and Development for the Heat. In 2010, Mourning was inducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame. On August 8, 2014, Mourning was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.\n\nDuring his time at Indian River High School in Chesapeake, Virginia, he led the team to 51 straight victories and a state title his junior year (1987). As a senior, he averaged 25 points, 15 rebounds and 12 blocked shots a game. He was named Player of the Year by USA Today, Parade, Gatorade, and Naismith. He was the #1 recruit of the 1988 class, over Billy Owens, Kenny Williams, Shawn Kemp, Stanley Roberts, Christian Laettner, and Malik Sealy, among others.\n\nMourning played college basketball for the Georgetown University Hoyas. He led the nation in blocked shots his freshman year and was an All-American his last year there.\n\nMourning was selected second overall in the 1992 NBA draft by the Charlotte Hornets, behind Shaquille O'Neal. Mourning was named to the league's all-rookie team in 1993 after averaging 21.0 pts, 10.3 rebounds, and 3.47 blocks. He finished second to Shaquille O'Neal in rookie of the year voting. He posted the highest scoring average of any rookie in Hornets history. Mourning and O'Neal were the first NBA rookies since David Robinson in 1989–90 to average 20 or more points and 10-plus rebounds in their first seasons. Mourning shattered Charlotte's blocked-shots records, becoming the Hornets' all-time career leader in the 49th game of the season. The greatest moment of Mourning's rookie season came on May 5, 1993 in Game 4 of a first-round playoff series against the Boston Celtics. His 20-footer with 4 tenths left gave the Hornets a 104–103 victory in the game and a three-games-to-one victory in the series. The Hornets lost in the second round to the New York Knicks in 5 games, with Mourning averaging 23.8 points, 9.9 rebounds and 3.4 blocks in 9 playoff games. The following year, Mourning played in just 60 games, posting almost similar averages of 21.5 points, 10.2 rebounds and 3.1 blocks per game, but the Hornets missed the playoffs.\n\nIn the 1994–95 season, Mourning and teammate Larry Johnson led the Hornets to a 50-win season and reached the playoffs. Mourning ranked first on the team in scoring (21.3 ppg), rebounding (9.9 rpg), blocked shots (2.92 per game), and field goal percentage (.519), and played in the 1995 NBA All-Star Game where he scored 10 points and grabbed 8 rebounds. The Hornets lost in 4 games to the Chicago Bulls in the first round of the playoffs, despite Mourning posting 22 points, 13.3 rebounds, and 3.3 blocks for the series.\n\nOn November 3, 1995, after Mourning rejected Charlotte’s contract extension offer worth an average of $11.2 million for seven years and knowing they would not be able to re-sign him, the Hornets traded him, along with reserves Pete Myers and LeRon Ellis in exchange for Glen Rice, Matt Geiger, Khalid Reeves and a first-round pick in the 1996 NBA draft.\n\nMourning would immediately serve as the centerpiece of the Pat Riley-coached Heat, and in his first season in Miami he averaged 23.2 points, 10.4 rebounds and 2.7 blocks a game as Miami made the playoffs before being swept in the first round by the 72 win Chicago Bulls. Mourning played in the 1996 NBA All-Star Game and was joined by all-star point guard Tim Hardaway who arrived through a midseason trade.\n\nIn the summer of 1996 Mourning would go on to sign a 7-year $105 million dollar contract with the Heat. In the 1996-97 season, the Heat would win a then franchise record 61 games, second in the Eastern Conference to the defending champion Bulls, and Mourning averaged 19.8 points, 9.9 rebounds and 2.9 blocks. In the playoffs, Miami defeated the Orlando Magic in five games, and advanced to the conference semifinals against the New York Knicks, where the rivalry between the Heat and the New York Knicks intensified. The Knicks took a 3–1 series lead, but following a brawl between Charlie Ward and P. J. Brown late in Game 5, multiple suspensions were handed down. Mourning scored 28 points in Game 6, followed by a 22-point, 12-rebound performance in Game 7 to help Miami advance to the Eastern Conference Finals, a franchise first, to face Chicago. The Bulls took a 3–0 series lead, and Mourning guaranteed a victory in Game 4. The Heat won 87–80, but they lost Game 5 100–87.\n\nThe next season, Mourning posted almost similar averages of 19.2 points, 9.6 rebounds and 2.2 blocks but only played in 58 games, and Miami was eliminated in the first round by the Knicks, a series in which Mourning was suspended for the 5th and deciding game due to an on-court fight with ex-teammate Larry Johnson, with Knicks head coach Jeff Van Gundy hanging onto Mourning's leg in an attempt to break it up.\n\nIn the lockout-shortened 1998–99 season, Mourning averaged 20.1 points, a career high 11 rebounds and a career high 3.9 blocks per game as Miami won another Atlantic Division title and the top seed in the playoffs. Mourning won the NBA Defensive Player of the Year Award, was named All-NBA First Team and finished second to Karl Malone in the NBA Most Valuable Player Award voting. Despite being the top seed, the Heat lost to the eighth-seeded Knicks in five games, off a last-second shot by Allan Houston in Miami.\n\nThe following season, Mourning averaged 21.7 points a game, 9.5 rebounds and 3.7 blocks a game, and won his second straight Defensive Player of the Year Award. Miami swept the Detroit Pistons in the first round of the playoffs, with Mourning dominating the Pistons. The Heat faced New York, the fourth straight year that the two teams met in the postseason, and took a 3–2 series lead, but New York won the series in seven games. In the summer, Mourning and Hardaway won a gold medal with the United States at the Olympics in Sydney.\n\nDuring the off-season, Miami underwent an overhaul and expectations leading up to the season were high. Prior the start of the 2000–01 season, however, Mourning was diagnosed with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, a kidney condition, that caused him to miss the first five months of the season. He returned to play on March 27, and played a total of 13 games as Miami made the postseason but were swept in the first round by the Charlotte Hornets.\n\nThe following year, Mourning played in 75 games despite his kidney disease, and was selected to play in the 2002 NBA All-Star Game, where he scored 13 points off the bench. He averaged 15.7 points, 8.4 rebounds and 2.5 blocks a game, but the Heat missed the playoffs. As his condition worsened, Mourning did not play during the entire 2002–03 season and his expiring contract was not renewed by the Heat.\n\nMourning signed a four-year deal with the New Jersey Nets in 2003 as a free agent. But on November 25, 2003, Mourning retired from the NBA due to complications from his kidney disease. On December 19 of that year he underwent a successful kidney transplant. In 2004, he started practicing with the Nets again, and made the team's regular season roster during the 2004–05 season. He did not play a significant role with the Nets, however, and openly complained to the media that he wanted out of New Jersey, especially after the team traded away Kenyon Martin. Mourning was traded to the Toronto Raptors on December 17, 2004. Mourning never reported to the Raptors, and was bought out of his contract at a remaining 9 million dollars on February 11, 2005. Raptors team officials later said that he did not meet the medical conditions to play for the team. Mourning then finished the season with the Miami Heat being paid a second salary, the veteran's minimum.\n\nAfter being unhappy at the prospect of playing for a losing franchise, Mourning re-signed with the Heat on March 1, 2005. His role was reduced as a backup because of superstar Shaquille O'Neal, although he was called upon as a starter due to O'Neal missing stretches due to injury. O'Neal and Mourning even played together on the court at times, with Mourning playing power forward. Because of physical limitations, his minutes were reduced, but was still a steady contributor. Mourning's tenacious defense, steady offense, and all around hustle helped the Heat gain and maintain the second-best record in the NBA's Eastern conference during the 2004–05 season. Mourning finished the regular season ranking third in blocked shots at 2.66 per game, despite only playing 20 minutes per contest. Miami swept the Nets in the first round of the playoffs, with Mourning scoring 21 points with 9 rebounds in just 16 minutes in game 2. In the second round against the Washington Wizards, Mourning stepped in for the injured O'Neal and scored 14 points with 13 rebounds and 4 blocked shots in game 3 as Miami completed another four-game sweep. Miami fell in seven games to the defending champion Detroit Pistons in the Eastern Conference Finals, with Mourning leading the team in blocks with 3 per game for the series.\n\nMourning re-signed with Miami, as the Heat once again re-hauled their roster, acquiring other veterans seeking a title such as Antoine Walker and Gary Payton. Mourning continued to serve as the Heat's backup center, and early on stepped in to serve as the team's starting center after O'Neal suffered an injury early on. Mourning started in 20 games out of a total of 65 games played, averaging 7.8 points and 5.5 rebounds while finishing third in the league with 2.7 blocks a game despite playing as a reserve. In the playoffs, Mourning continued to shine in his role as a defensive player off the bench, as Miami advanced past the Chicago Bulls and New Jersey before defeating Detroit in 6 games to advance to the 2006 NBA Finals, the first NBA Finals in franchise history and the first for Mourning. After a 2-0 deficit, Miami won all three of its home games led by the spectacular play of Dwyane Wade, and in game 6 in Dallas Mourning came off the bench to score 8 points with 6 rebounds and a team high 5 blocks to help Miami win its first NBA Championship in franchise history.\n\nAfter winning the championship, Mourning announced that he would return to the Heat in 2006–07 to defend their title, despite receiving offers of more money from other teams, including the San Antonio Spurs. In 2007, Mourning announced he would return for one more year with the Heat and his 15th season. \"It will definitely be my last year\", Mourning said. After starting the season on a solid note averaging 6 points, 3.8 rebounds and 1.75 blocks in just over 16 minutes played per 24 games, Mourning tore his patellar tendon in his right knee on December 19, 2007, during the first quarter of a loss in Atlanta.\n\nMourning has averaged the most blocks in the NBA per 48 minutes with 5.46.\n\nDuring the 2007–08 season, he became the Heat's all-time leader in points scored (which has since been surpassed by Dwyane Wade).\n\nMourning announced his retirement from the NBA on January 22, 2009. In his press conference he said, \"I'm 38 years old and I feel like I have physically done all I can for this game.\" One month later, the Heat announced that they would retire Mourning's number 33 jersey, making him the first Heat player to be so honored. The jersey retirement ceremony occurred on March 30, 2009, when the Heat hosted the Orlando Magic. During the extended halftime ceremony, Mourning was introduced by Florida Governor Charlie Crist; former Georgetown University basketball coach John Thompson; Basketball Hall of Famer Patrick Ewing; Heat players Dwyane Wade and Udonis Haslem; and Heat head coach Pat Riley.\n\nIn May 2009, he was named to the Hampton Roads Sports Hall of Fame, which honors athletes, coaches and administrators who contributed to sports in southeastern Virginia. In the following April, he was inducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame in recognition of his outstanding high school, collegiate, and professional career as well as his commitment to volunteer service in the communities in which he has lived and worked throughout his life.\n\nMourning announced his return to the Heat in late June 2009; he holds the position of Vice President of Player Programs and Development, which covers community outreach and mentoring young players.\nOn July 2014 the NBA announced that Mourning would be inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame on August 8.\n\n\nOn November 25, 2003, Mourning's cousin and a retired U. S. Marine, Jason Cooper, was visiting Mourning's gravely ill grandmother in the hospital. Mourning's father was present and informed Cooper that Mourning was retiring that very same day from the NBA because of a life-threatening kidney disease, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, the same problem that Sean Elliott had in 1999. Cooper asked if there was anything he could do, and began to contemplate donating one of his kidneys to his estranged cousin, whom he had not seen in 25 years and whom he only knew through basketball. Cooper was tested for compatibility, along with many other family members and friends (including fellow NBA center and good friend Patrick Ewing); during his grandmother's funeral, Mourning received the news that Jason Cooper was a match.\n\nMourning received Cooper's left kidney on December 19, 2003.\n\nIn 1997, Mourning established Alonzo Mourning Charities Inc. to aid in the development of children and families living in at-risk situations and provides support and services that enhance the lives of youth of promise.\n\nAfter being diagnosed with focal glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), Mourning launched Zo's Fund for Life, a campaign which seeks to raise funds for research, education, and testing to fight focal glomerulosclerosis. Funds are allocated toward research for a cure, education for doctors and the general public, testing for early detection and a fund for those not able to afford medication.\n\nIn 2007, Mourning along with Andre Agassi, Muhammad Ali, Lance Armstrong, Warrick Dunn, Mia Hamm, Jeff Gordon, Tony Hawk, Andrea Jaeger, Jackie Joyner-Kersee, Mario Lemieux, and Cal Ripken Jr. founded Athletes for Hope, a charitable organization, which helps professional athletes get involved in charitable causes and inspires millions of non-athletes to volunteer and support the community.\n\nIn 2003, he also founded the Overtown Youth Center for underprivileged kids, located in Miami, Florida. The program aims to inspire, empower, and enrich these children while teaching them to become positive contributing citizens.\n\nIn 2009, the Miami-Dade school board named a new high school in North Miami, Florida in his honor, Alonzo and Tracy Mourning Senior High Biscayne Bay Campus.\n\nMourning and his wife Tracy have three children: a son named Alonzo III (\"Trey\"), a daughter named Myka Sydney, and a second son named Alijah (born September 18, 2009). Like his father, Trey is a member of the Georgetown Hoyas basketball team where he starts at power forward and wears his father's signature number 33 jersey. They reside in Pinecrest, Florida, where Mourning purchased a two-story, 9,786-square-foot residence for $4.5 million in 2012.\n\nIn July 2011 Mourning was sued by Miami-based lawyer Spencer Aronfeld on behalf of Alberto Candoleria for crashing his car into another car and then leaving the scene of the accident. The Florida Highway Patrol later charged Mourning with leaving the scene of a car accident. The accident allegedly occurred after he left Chris Bosh's wedding in Miami Beach after 3:00 A.M. Candoleria had just been in an accident when Mourning struck his car. He did not know if he was in his car when Mourning hit him as he claimed to have amnesia.\n\nIn 2015 Mourning was one of eight Virginians honored in the Library of Virginia's \"Strong Men & Women in Virginia History\" for his charitable work and for his contributions to the sport of basketball.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1685", "title": "Amasis II", "text": "Amasis II\n\nAmasis II () or Ahmose II was a pharaoh (reigned 570 BCE526 BCE) of the Twenty-sixth dynasty of Egypt, the successor of Apries at Sais. He was the last great ruler of Egypt before the Persian conquest.\n\nMost of our information about him is derived from Herodotus (2.161ff) and can only be imperfectly verified by monumental evidence. According to the Greek historian, he was of common origins. He was originally an officer in the Egyptian army. His birthplace was Siuph at Saïs. He took part in a general campaign of Pharaoh Psamtik II in 592 BC in Nubia.\n\nA revolt which broke out among native Egyptian soldiers gave him his opportunity to seize the throne. These troops, returning home from a disastrous military expedition to Cyrene in Libya, suspected that they had been betrayed in order that Apries, the reigning king, might rule more absolutely by means of his Greek mercenaries; many Egyptians fully sympathized with them. General Amasis, sent to meet them and quell the revolt, was proclaimed king by the rebels instead, and Apries, who had now to rely entirely on his mercenaries, was defeated. Apries fled to the Babylonians and was captured and killed mounting an invasion of his native homeland in 567 BCE with the aid of a Babylonian army. An inscription confirms the struggle between the native Egyptian and the foreign soldiery, and proves that Apries was killed and honourably buried in the third year of Amasis ( BCE). Amasis then married Chedebnitjerbone II, one of the daughters of his predecessor Apries, in order to legitimise his kingship.\n\nSome information is known about the family origins of Amasis: his mother was a certain Tashereniset, as a bust of her, today located in the British Museum, shows. A stone block from Mehallet el-Kubra also establishes that his maternal grandmother—Tashereniset's mother—was a certain Tjenmutetj.\nHis court is relatively well known. The head of the gate guard Ahmose-sa-Neith appears on numerous monuments, including the location of his sarcophagus. He was referenced on monuments of the 30th dynasty and apparently had a special significance in his time. Wahibre was 'Leader of the southern foreigners' and 'Head of the doors of foreigners', so he was the highest official for border security. Under Amasis the career of the doctor Udjahorresnet began, who was of particular importance to the Persians. Several \"heads of the fleet\" are known. Psamtek Meryneit and Pasherientaihet / Padineith are the only known viziers.\n\nHerodotus describes how Amasis II would eventually cause a confrontation with the Persian armies. According to Herodotus, Amasis was asked by Cambyses II or Cyrus the Great for an Egyptian ophthalmologist on good terms. Amasis seems to have complied by forcing an Egyptian physician into mandatory labor, causing him to leave his family behind in Egypt and move to Persia in forced exile. In an attempt to exact revenge for this, the physician grew very close to Cambyses and suggested that Cambyses should ask Amasis for a daughter in marriage in order to solidify his bonds with the Egyptians. Cambyses complied and requested a daughter of Amasis for marriage.\n\nAmasis, worrying that his daughter would be a concubine to the Persian king, refused to give up his offspring; Amasis also was not willing to take on the Persian empire, so he concocted a deception in which he forced the daughter of the ex-pharaoh Apries, whom Herodotus explicitly confirms to have been killed by Amasis, to go to Persia instead of his own offspring.\n\nThis daughter of Apries was none other than Nitetis, who was, as per Herodotus's account, \"tall and beautiful.\" Nitetis naturally betrayed Amasis and upon being greeted by the Persian king explained Amasis's trickery and her true origins. This infuriated Cambyses and he vowed to take revenge for it. Amasis died before Cambyses reached him, but his heir and son Psamtik III was defeated by the Persians.\n\nFirst, Cyrus the Great signed alliance agreements with the Lydian King Croesus and Nabonidus the Babylonian king in 542 BC. The actual aim of the agreements was to prevent aid between Egypt and her allies. With both now deprived of Egyptian support, the Persians conquered, first, Croesus's empire in 541 BCE, and, then, the Neo-Babylonian Empire in 539 BCE.\n\nHerodotus also describes that just like his predecessor, Amasis relied on Greek mercenaries and councilmen. One such figure was Phanes of Halicarnassus, who would later on leave Amasis, for reasons Herodotus does not clearly know but suspects were personal between the two figures. Amasis sent one of his eunuchs to capture Phanes, but the eunuch was bested by the wise councilman and Phanes fled to Persia, meeting up with Cambyses and providing advice in his invasion of Egypt. Egypt was finally lost to the Persians during the battle of Pelusium in 525 BC.\n\nAlthough Amasis appears first as champion of the disparaged native, he had the good sense to cultivate the friendship of the Greek world, and brought Egypt into closer touch with it than ever before. Herodotus relates that under his prudent administration, Egypt reached a new level of wealth; Amasis adorned the temples of Lower Egypt especially with splendid monolithic shrines and other monuments (his activity here is proved by existing remains). For example, a temple built by him was excavated at Tell Nebesha.\n\nAmasis assigned the commercial colony of Naucratis on the Canopic branch of the Nile to the Greeks, and when the temple of Delphi was burnt, he contributed 1,000 talents to the rebuilding. He also married a Greek princess named Ladice daughter of King Battus III and made alliances with Polycrates of Samos and Croesus of Lydia.\n\nUnder Amasis, Egypt's agricultural based economy reached its zenith. Herodotus, who visited Egypt less than a century after Amasis II's death, writes that:\nHis kingdom consisted probably of Egypt only, as far as the First Cataract, but to this he added Cyprus, and his influence was great in Cyrene, Libya. In his fourth year ( BCE), Amasis was able to defeat an invasion of Egypt by the Babylonians under Nebuchadnezzar II; henceforth, the Babylonians experienced sufficient difficulties controlling their empire that they were forced to abandon future attacks against Amasis. However, Amasis was later faced with a more formidable enemy with the rise of Persia under Cyrus who ascended to the throne in 559 BCE; his final years were preoccupied by the threat of the impending Persian onslaught against Egypt. With great strategic skill, Cyrus had destroyed Lydia in 546 BCE and finally defeated the Babylonians in 538 BCE which left Amasis with no major Near Eastern allies to counter Persia's increasing military might. Amasis reacted by cultivating closer ties with the Greek states to counter the future Persian invasion into Egypt but was fortunate to have died in 526 BCE shortly before the Persians attacked. The final assault instead fell upon his son Psamtik III, whom the Persians defeated in 525 BCE after a reign of only six months.\n\nAmasis II died in 526 BC. He was buried at the royal necropolis of Sais, and while his tomb was never discovered, Herodotus describes it for us:\n\nHerodotus also relates the desecration of Ahmose II/Amasis' mummy when the Persian king Cambyses conquered Egypt and thus ended the 26th Saite dynasty:\n\nFrom the fifth century BCE, there is evidence of stories circulating about Amasis, in Egyptian sources (including a demotic papyrus of the third century BCE), Herodotus, Hellanikos, and Plutarch's \"Convivium Septem Sapientium\". 'In those tales Amasis was presented as a non-conventional Pharaoh, behaving in ways unbecoming to a king but gifted with practical wisdom and cunning, a trickster on the throne or a kind of comic Egyptian Solomon'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40066832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40066832", "title": "Arca (musician)", "text": "Arca (musician)\n\nAlejandro Ghersi (born 14 October 1989), better known by his stage name Arca, is a Venezuelan electronic record producer, songwriter, mixing engineer and DJ based in Dalston, London. He has released three studio albums to critical praise and has produced for artists such as Björk, Kanye West, FKA twigs, Kelela and Frank Ocean.\n\nArca was born in Caracas, Venezuela. His father was an investment banker and his mother studied International Studies. His family moved to Connecticut for a time, before returning to Venezuela, where he was privately educated and was introduced to piano lessons. He describes his childhood as \"kind of in a bubble\", and had difficulty accepting the fact that he was gay. He released music in his teen years by the name of Nuuro, and received moderate popularity in his home country, with praise from big national artists such as Los Amigos Invisibles. He later attended the Clive Davis Institute of Recorded Music at NYU.\n\nOn 1 February 2012, Arca released his debut extended play (EP), \"Baron Libre\", through UNO NYC. Later that year, he released the \"Stretch 1\" and \"Stretch 2\" EPs on 19 April and 6 August respectively.\n\nIn 2013, Arca was credited for additional production, programming and songwriting for five of the songs on Kanye West's \"Yeezus\", which was released on 18 June. He also served as one of the three production consultants. That same year on 23 July, he released his \"&&&&&\" mixtape through SoundCloud and Hippos in Tanks. The project included an audio-visual performance alongside Jesse Kanda, who contributed the visuals, at MoMA PS1 in October 2013. On 17 September, FKA Twigs' \"EP2\" was released, on which Arca produced and co-wrote every song.\n\nHis debut studio album, \"Xen\", was released on 4 November 2014 via Mute Records. Arca made significant contributions to Björk's ninth studio album \"Vulnicura\" which was released on 20 January 2015. He was credited as the co-producer of seven of the tracks, and the co-writer of two. Arca collaborated with American singer Kelela on her \"Hallucinogen\" EP, which was released in October 2015. He's credited for producing, recording, mixing and co-writing two of the tracks, including the title track, which is an instrumental from Arca's \"&&&&&\" mixtape with Kelela adding improvised vocals. His second studio album, \"Mutant\", was released on 20 November 2015. He released the \"Entrañas\" mixtape on 4 July 2016, following the single \"Sin Rumbo\".\n\nOn 22 February 2017, Arca signed with XL Recordings and released \"Piel\", the first single from his eponymous third studio album, \"Arca\", which was released on 7 April 2017 to widespread acclaim from music critics and was featured on numerous year-end lists. Later in 2017, Arca collaborated with Björk again on her ninth studio album \"Utopia\", who co-produced the vast majority of the record. Björk explained that the album explored \"the Arca-Björk overlap.\" A music video featuring Arca for \"Arisen My Senses\" was released on 18 December 2017. Arca also collaborated with Kelela on her debut studio album, \"Take Me Apart\", released in October 2017. Kelela said he \"anchored\" the album and produced a bulk of it. He's credited for producing on four tracks, and co-writing two.\n\n\n\n\n! Year !! Awards !! Work !! Category !! Result\n\n"}
{"id": "1762813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1762813", "title": "Arthur Guinness", "text": "Arthur Guinness\n\nArthur Guinness (24 September 1725 – 23 January 1803) was an Irish brewer and the founder of the Guinness brewery business and family. He was also an entrepreneur and philanthropist.\n\nAt 27, in 1752, Guinness's godfather Arthur Price, the Church of Ireland Archbishop of Cashel, bequeathed him £100 in his will. Guinness invested the money and in 1755 had a brewery at Leixlip, just 17 km from Dublin. In 1759, Guinness went to the city and set up his own business. He took a 9,000-year lease on the brewery at St. James's Gate from the descendants of Sir Mark Rainsford for an annual rent of £45.\n\nGuinness's flowery red signature is still copied on every label of bottled Guinness.\n\nArthur Guinness's parents Richard and Elizabeth were both the children of tenant farmers in Dublin and Kildare. Richard's family claimed a descent from the Gaelic Magennis clan of County Down. Recent DNA evidence however suggests descent from the McCartans, another County Down clan, whose spiritual home of Kinelarty included the townland of \"Guiness\" near Ballynahinch, County Down.\n\nGuinness's place and date of birth are the subject of speculation. His gravestone in Oughterard, County Kildare says he died on 23 January 1803, \"in his 78th year\", i.e. aged 77, indicating that he was born in 1725. There is no proof of the date of 28 September 1725 chosen by the Guinness company in 1991, apparently to end speculation about his birthdate. The place of birth was perhaps his mother's home at Read homestead at Ardclough County Kildare. In 2009 it was claimed he was born in nearby Celbridge where his parents lived in 1725 and where his father worked as an agent for the cleric Dr. Arthur Price, and may (or may not) have brewed beer for the household. \n\nIn his will, Dr. Price left £100 each to \"his servant\" Arthur and his father in 1752. Starting his first brewery in Leixlip in 1755, Arthur then bought a long lease of an adjacent site from George Bryan \"of Philadelphia in the Province of Pennsylvania\" in 1756, that was developed as investment property.\n\nIn 1761 he married Olivia Whitmore in St. Mary's Church, Dublin, and they had 21 children, 10 of whom lived to adulthood. Olivia's father was William Whitmore, a grocer in Essex Street, Temple Bar, Dublin, and her mother was Mary Grattan from Drummin House, Carbury, County Kildare. Olivia also brought a dowry of £1,000.\n\nFrom 1764 they lived at Beaumont House, which he had built on a farm, which is now a part of Beaumont Convalescent Home, behind the main part of Beaumont Hospital, between Santry and Raheny in north County Dublin. His landlord was Charles Gardiner. The townland name of Kilmore was renamed by Arthur as Beaumont (meaning beautiful hill) and the later Beaumont parish copied the name. From March 1798 he lived at Mountjoy Square in Dublin, which was then in the process of being built in the style of elegant Georgian architecture, where his landlord was Gardiner's son Luke. Three of his sons were also brewers, and his other descendants eventually included missionaries, politicians, and authors (see: Guinness family).\n\nHe died in Dublin and was buried in his mother's family plot at Oughterard, County Kildare in January 1803.\n\nGuinness supported Henry Grattan in the 1780s and 1790s, not least because Grattan wanted to reduce the tax on beer. He was one of the four brewers' guild representatives on Dublin Corporation from the 1760s until his death. Like Grattan, Guinness was publicly in favour of Catholic Emancipation from 1793, but he was not a supporter of the United Irishmen during the 1798 rebellion and was accused of spying for the British. and was against Irish home-rule. In general, the Guinness family became Irish Unionists and Arthur Guinness accepted the system, with Arthur \"directly opposed to any movement toward Irish independence\" and wanting \"Ireland to remain under British control\".\n\nGuinness leased a brewery in Leixlip in 1755, brewing ale. Five years later he left his younger brother Richard in charge of that enterprise and moved on to another in St. James' Gate, Dublin, at the end of 1759. The 9,000-year lease he signed for the brewery is presently displayed in the floor at St. James' Gate, effective from 31 December 1759. By 1767 he was elected Master of the Dublin Corporation of Brewers. His first actual sales of porter were listed on tax (excise) data from 1778, and it seems that other Dublin brewers had experimented in brewing porter beer from the 1760s. From the 1780s his second son Arthur (1768–1855) worked at his side and eventually became the senior partner in the brewery from 1803. He commented on this in a letter of 1790:\n\nHis major achievement was in expanding his brewery in 1797–99. Thereafter he brewed only porter and employed members of the Purser family, Moravians from Tewkesbury who had brewed porter in London until 1776. The Pursers became partners in the brewery for most of the 19th century. By his death in 1803 the annual brewery output was over 20,000 barrels. Subsequently, Arthur and/or his beer was nicknamed \"Uncle Arthur\" in Dublin.\n\nArthur and Olivia had 21 children, of whom these 10 survived to maturity:\n\n\nTo further honour Arthur Guinness's legacy, in 2009 Guinness & Co. established the Arthur Guinness Fund (AGF). An internal fund set up by the Company, its aim is to enable and empower individuals with skills and opportunities to deliver a measured benefit to their communities. Guinness has donated more than €7 million to the Fund since its inception.\n\nArthur is one of a handful of Irish people commemorated twice on stamps, in 1959 and 2009.\n\nIn October 2013 a statue of him was erected in his birthplace Celbridge.\n\nIn 2014 a series of pathways were created beside places from his early life by Kildare County Council, known collectively as \"Arthur's Way\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "867561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=867561", "title": "Audrey Munson", "text": "Audrey Munson\n\nAudrey Marie Munson (June 8, 1891 – February 20, 1996) was an American artist's model and film actress, considered \"America's First Supermodel,\" and variously known as \"Miss Manhattan\", the \"Panama–Pacific Girl\", the \"Exposition Girl\" and \"American Venus\". She was the model or inspiration for more than 12 statues in New York City and was the first American movie star to appear fully nude in film, in \"Inspiration\" (1915), appearing in four silent films.\n\nAudrey Marie Munson was born in Rochester, New York, on June 8, 1891. Her father was from Mexico, New York, and she later lived there. Her parents, Edgar Munson and Katherine \"Kittie\" Mahaney, divorced when she was eight, and Audrey and her mother moved to Providence, Rhode Island.\n\nIn 1909, when she was 17 years old, Audrey Munson moved to New York with her mother to become an actress and chorus girl. Her first role on Broadway was as a \"footman\" in \"The Boy and The Girl\" at the Aerial Garden, which ran from May 31-June 19, 1909. She also appeared in \"The Girl and the Wizard\", \"Girlies\" and \"La Belle Paree\".\n\nWhile window-shopping on Fifth Avenue with her mother, she was spotted by photographer Felix Benedict Herzog, who asked her to pose for him at his studio in the Lincoln Arcade Building on Broadway and 65th Street. Herzog introduced her to his friends in the art world, and she began to pose for numerous artists. It was the sculptor Isidore Konti who first persuaded her to pose nude, using her as his model for the three figures in his \"Three Graces\" for the new Grand Ballroom at the Hotel Astor in Times Square. For the next decade, Munson became the model of choice for a host of sculptors and painters in New York. According to \"The Sun\" in 1913, \"Over a hundred artists agree that if the name of Miss Manhattan belongs to anyone in particular it is to this young woman.\" By 1915, she was so well established that she became Alexander Stirling Calder's model of choice for the Panama–Pacific International Exposition held that year. She posed for three-fifths of the sculpture created for the event and earned fame as the \"Panama–Pacific Girl\".\n\nHer newfound celebrity helped launch her career in the nascent film industry and she starred in four silent films. In the first, \"Inspiration\" (1915), the story of a sculptor's model, she appeared fully nude, the first woman to do so in an American motion picture. The censors were reluctant to ban the film, fearing they would also have to ban Renaissance art. Munson's films were a box office success, although the critics were divided. The studio hired a lookalike named Jane Thomas to do Munson's acting scenes, while Munson did the scenes where she posed nude. Her second film, \"Purity\" (1916), made in Santa Barbara, California, is the only one of her films to survive, being rediscovered in 1993 in a \"pornography\" collection in France and acquired by the French national cinema archive. Her third film, \"The Girl o' Dreams\", also made in Santa Barbara, was completed by the fall of 1916 and was copyrighted on December 31, 1918, but appears never to have been released.\n\nMunson returned to the East Coast by train via Syracuse in December 1916 and became involved with high society in New York and Newport, Rhode Island. Her mother insisted she marry \"Comstock Lode\" silver heir Hermann Oelrichs Jr., then the richest bachelor in America, but there is no record of Audrey Munson's making this claim herself. On January 27, 1919, she wrote a rambling letter to the US State Department denouncing Hermann Oelrichs Jr. as part of a pro-German network that had driven her out of the movie business. She said she planned to abandon the United States to restart her movie career in England.\n\nAt the time, Audrey Munson was living with her mother in a boarding house at 164 West 65th Street, Manhattan, owned by Dr. Walter Wilkins. Wilkins fell in love with Munson and murdered his wife, Julia, so he could be available for marriage. Munson and her mother left New York, and the police sought them for questioning. After a nationwide hunt, they were located. They refused to return to New York, but were questioned by agents from the Burns Detective Agency in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The contents of the affidavits they supplied have never been revealed, but Audrey Munson strongly denied she had any romantic relationship with Dr. Wilkins. Wilkins was tried, found guilty, and sentenced to the electric chair. He hanged himself in his prison cell before the sentence could be carried out.\n\nBy 1920, Munson, unable to find work anywhere, was living in Syracuse, New York, supported by her mother, who sold kitchen utensils door to door. In February 1921, agent-producer Allan Rock took out advertisements showing a $27,500 check he said he had paid Munson to star in a fourth film titled \"Heedless Moths\". She later said the $27,500 check was just a \"publicity stunt,\" and she filed suit against Allan Rock. The 1921 film was based on her life story, which was then being serialized in dozens of newspapers, and on short stories and other articles she had written for \"Hearst's Sunday Magazine\". In the series of twenty articles that recounted her life story, she asked the reader to imagine her future:\n\nOn May 27, 1922, Munson attempted suicide by swallowing a solution of bichloride of mercury.\n\nOn June 8, 1931, her mother petitioned a judge to commit her to a lunatic asylum. The Oswego County judge ordered Munson be admitted into a psychiatric facility for treatment. She remained in the St. Lawrence State Hospital for the Insane in Ogdensburg, where she was treated for depression and schizophrenia, for 65 years, until her death at the age of 104. For decades, she had no visitors at all, but she was rediscovered in the asylum by a half-niece, Darlene Bradley, in 1984, when Munson was 93. Munson died February 20, 1996 at the age of 104. She was buried without a gravestone of her own in the Munson family plot in New Haven Cemetery, New Haven, New York until 2016, 20 years after her death when her family decided to add a simple tombstone for what would have been her 125th birthday.\n\nDecades after her career ended, she was sufficiently famous to serve as the subject of an anecdote in a memoir that P.G. Wodehouse and Guy Bolton wrote of their years on Broadway, \"Bring on the Girls!\" (1953), though that memoir is considered more fiction than fact by Wodehouse's biographer.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe four films in which Munson appeared were thought to have been lost until a copy of \"Purity\" (1916) was recovered in France.\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "26441973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26441973", "title": "Aureliano Blanquet", "text": "Aureliano Blanquet\n\nAureliano Blanquet (Morelia, Michoacán, 31 December 1849 – 15 April 1919 Barranca de Chavaxtla, Huatusco, Veracruz) was a general of the Federal Army during the Mexican Civil War. He was a key participant in the coup d'état during the Decena trágica. Blanquet has been identified \"as one of the major villains of the Mexican Revolution\".\n\nBlanquet was born in 1849 in Morelia, Michoacán. At 18 he joined the Republican forces besieging the city of Queretaro where the last of Emperor Maximilian's Imperial troops had been trapped. After the surrender Blanquet served as a member of the firing squad which executed Maximilian and two of his generals: Miguel Miramón and Tomás Mejía.\n\nIn 1877 Blanquet enlisted in the regular Federal Army. Under Porfirio Diaz he made steady but unspectacular advancement. While holding the rank of captain he was involved in the suppression of a Maya rising in Yucatan during the 1890s.\n\nIn July 1911 Blanquet commanded federal troops stationed in Puebla. On July 12 a group of armed men fired shots at the rival Maderistas and fled into the federal army barracks. The incident erupted into an all-out battle in which Blanquet defeated the Maderistas. 46 were killed, including women and children. On the next day Madero publicly hugged Blanquet and cleared him of any wrongdoing; he ordered radical Maderistas to surrender arms to Blanquet's \"Federales\" and go home. The Puebla Incident also created international tension after the fleeing Maderistas killed German and Spanish expatriates who stood in their way.\n\nDuring May 1912 Blanquet served under General Victoriano Huerta, leading the 29th Infantry Battalion in the successful suppression of the Orozquista revolt against the Madero government.\n\nIn June 1913, General Huerta dismissed General Mondragon as Secretary of War, and replaced him with Blanquet. Now promoted to the rank of General of Division, Blanquet was also appointed to hold the position of Minister of Marine (i.e. Navy).\n\nIn October 1913 Huerta dissolved the Federal Congress and prepared for a rigged referendum to legitimize himself as the President, with Blanquet named as Vice-President.\n\nIn July 1914, when the Huerta government collapsed, Blanquet resigned as Vice President, and departed from Mexico with Huerta.\n\nOn August 19, 1914 General Blanquet, having returned from overseas, intervened in the disbandment process of Huerta's defeated Federal army. He led the 29th Battalion of 400 men, which he had formerly commanded, plus other remnants of Federal troops dissatisfied with their redundancy payments, against Carrancistas in Puebla. Blanquet captured the city and learned that two Carrancistas agents, brothers Ramon and Raphael Cabrera, were on their way to Puebla to assert the authority of the new government. Blanquet's federals captured the Cabreras and shot them on Blanquet's order. The two surviving Cabrera brothers, Luiz and Alfonso, avenged the dead with a campaign of terror, killing over sixty Federal prisoners. Blanquet escaped and resumed his exile, in Cuba.\n\nIn March 1919, Blanquet returned from exile in Cuba, to support the Felix Díaz rebellion against Carranza. With only about six followers he moved inland from the Gulf Coast in an attempt to join up with Diaz. On April 7, 1919, Blanquet was killed when his horse fell down a ravine after a skirmish with government troops near La Barranca de Chavaxtla, Veracruz. The Constitutionalist commander General Guadalupe Sanchez had Blanquet's head taken to Veracruz for display and photographing.\n\n"}
{"id": "4233364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4233364", "title": "Bangladesh Shishu Academy", "text": "Bangladesh Shishu Academy\n\nBangladesh Shishu Academy () is the national academy for children in Bangladesh. It was established in 1976 for promoting cultural development of children, and nurturing their talents.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26818678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26818678", "title": "Christian Dorsey", "text": "Christian Dorsey\n\nChristian Dorsey (born 1971 in Atlantic City, New Jersey) is an American politician in Arlington County, Virginia. He previously worked at the Economic Policy Institute. His areas of expertise are community development, housing, race and the economy.\n\nDorsey joined EPI in 2008. Dorsey's work there has been to build an awareness of economic policy matters on a grassroots level as an advocate for the EPI with a goal of educating and mobilizing both middle class and disenfranchised communities for equally shared prosperity.\n\nPrior to joining EPI, Dorsey served as chief executive officer for various non-profit organizations promoting children's literacy, prejudice reduction and affordable housing. Dorsey also served as the Executive Director of the Bonder and Amanda Johnson Community Development Corporation, and as Executive Director for The Reading Connection, a Northern Virginia-based non-profit organization that provides literacy programs for children.\n\nDorsey's commentaries have appeared in a variety of media including The Washington Post and he is a frequent voice on television, namely Fox News Channel's Cashin' In as a frequent guest panelist and radio.\n\nDorsey holds a B.S., International Relations from Georgetown University School of Foreign Service.\n"}
{"id": "24186216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24186216", "title": "Cinta Laura", "text": "Cinta Laura\n\nCinta Laura Kiehl, better known as Cinta Laura (; born August 17, 1993), is an Indonesian-German actress, electropop singer and model in Indonesia.\n\nLaura was born on August 17, 1993 in Quakenbrück, Germany. Her father, Michael Kiehl, was a German hotelier, and her mother, Herdiana Soekarseno, was an Indonesian lawyer of ethnic Sundanese descent. Due to her father’s job, Cinta grew up in several countries such as the UAE, Malaysia, Germany and finally Indonesia, which led her to grow up with English as her first language despite her German and Indonesian background.\n\nUpon her move to Indonesia, Cinta began to cultivate her love for sports. Her love for swimming led her to become a competitive swimmer, competing against dozens of international schools in the country. By the time she was 12, she had attained 10 gold medals, 7 silver medals and 7 bronze medals from various swim meets. In 2006 Cinta suffered from appendicitis, which led to an operation that required her to remain inactive for three months. During this break, her dance teacher encouraged her to join an acting/modeling competition. Though initially hesitant due to her preference for sports, she took up the challenge and participated in the competition. Little did she know that this competition was going to change her life forever.\n\nTo Cinta’s surprise she won the first place for modeling. One of the judges, who was a casting director for one of the biggest production house in Indonesia, immediately offered her a contract for a leading role in a local TV soap series. Weeks later she signed a contract with MD Entertainment and started her journey as an actress. Due to her rusty Indonesian and inexperience in acting, MD Entertainment provided Cinta with both an Indonesian teacher and acting coach. In February 2007, her first soap, \"\" aired on SCTV. Within weeks it became the most popular show in the country. Cinta’s popularity rose at an immense pace. Shortly before her 14th birthday in August 2007, she received an award for Best Actress, beating other female actresses who have been in the industry for years. The show also won Best Sinetron (TV soap) that year. \"\" lasted for 310 episodes and ended due to Cinta’s need for a break in order to attain some normality in her teenage life.\n\nHer break from the industry did not last long as Cinta began to shoot her first movie \"Oh Baby\" in February 2008. The Step Up inspired movie was catered to young teens as it depicted a young girl pursuing her dream of becoming a dancer in order to provide for her beloved grandpa while finding love on the way. In 2008, Cinta also began her singing career, having her first single debut as the soundtrack of her film. Her first single \"Oh Baby\" reigned in the number position of various charts in Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei Darussalam. 2008 proved to be Cinta’s year as she received numerous awards from various renowned teenage magazines such as Gadis, in which she was dubbed Artist of the Year. She also won her first Kids Choice Awards (Indonesia) for Best Actress and was also nominated for Best Singer. Midway through 2008, Cinta also began filming her second TV soap series, \"Upik Abu dan Laura\", which was a tremendous success in both Indonesia and Malaysia.\n\nIn 2009 Cinta made the executive decision to slowdown as the 11th grade was approaching. Aware of the difficulty of the last two years of High School prior to university, Cinta decided to switch her focus not to studying but to the music industry as it consumed less time. However, as a farewell gift to her fans, Cinta filmed her last TV soap series, \"Air Mata Cinta\" over the summer of 2009. As she entered the 11th grade, she began restricting her schedule to weekends, in which she spent time recording her first self-titled studio album, \"Cinta Laura\". The album was released in February 2010 and sold over a million copies, which made it a great success. In the summer of 2010, Cinta received the most honorable award one could receive from the Kids Choice Awards (Indonesia), the Wannabe Artist Award of 2010.\n\nLater in 2010, Cinta filmed another movie called \"SKJ: Seleb Kota Jogja\", which validated her role as both an actress and a singer. Due to her academics, Cinta decided to take a real break. Her hectic schedule alongside stress from having to juggle both her education and career led her to decide on quitting the movie industry in Indonesia. Nonetheless, it all paid of as she graduated from the Jakarta International School (JIS) with honors in June 2011. In the summer of 2011, prior to her preparation for college, Cinta focused on recording her second studio album titled, \"Hollywood Dreams\". In addition to all that, Cinta was also offered to act in an American produced movie \"After the Dark\", starring Bonnie Wright and James D’Arcy. As a result, plans changed and Cinta began filming her first Hollywood movie in June 2011.\n\nIn September 2011, Cinta moved to the United States to study at Columbia University in the city of New York. While at Columbia, she joined the sorority Kappa Alpha Theta. Despite her full-time dedication as a student, Cinta spent her winter break in January 2012 recording two singles with American music producers in Los Angeles. These two singles, \"Boomerang\" and \"Playlist\" became her first English singles and were placed in her second studio album, which was released in July 2012. In the summer of 2012, Cinta again spent her holiday touring Indonesia to promote her album.\n\nSoon after, Cinta took a yearlong break from the industry and did not return to Indonesia until the summer of 2013. She was offered to do a live show called \"YKS: Yuk Kita Sahur\", a show conceptually similar to \"Saturday Night Live\". To everyone’s surprise the show became a big hit and has been rated number one ever since. As a result of the show’s great success, Cinta rejoined the cast of \"YKS\" during the months of December 2013 and January 2014.\n\nDespite Cinta’s success and achievements, education has always been her number one priority. Her determination and ambition has led her to attain great success at Columbia University, allowing her to graduate a year earlier than expected. She is also a teaching assistant (TA) for Professor Herbert Terrace in Columbia’s psychology department. Cinta graduated cum laude from the university in May 2014. Additionally, she is also preparing for her move to Los Angeles in order to pursue her acting career in Hollywood.\n\n"}
{"id": "35702609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35702609", "title": "Dogs in the City", "text": "Dogs in the City\n\nDogs in the City is an American reality television series that premiered on May 30, 2012 on CBS in the United States. The series features New York City stand-up comedian, personal trainer, and self-proclaimed \"dog guru\" Justin Silver, who helps his clients solve various issues they are having with their pets. The show ended on July 11, 2012.\n"}
{"id": "1757499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1757499", "title": "Edmund White", "text": "Edmund White\n\nEdmund Valentine White III (born January 13, 1940) is an American novelist, memoirist, and an essayist on literary and social topics. Much of his writing is on the theme of same-sex love. His books include \"The Joy of Gay Sex\" (1977) (written with Charles Silverstein), his trio of autobiographic novels, \"A Boy's Own Story\" (1982), \"The Beautiful Room Is Empty\" (1988) and \"The Farewell Symphony\" (1997), and his biography of Jean Genet.\n\nEdmund Valentine White was born on January 13, 1940, in Cincinnati, Ohio. White largely grew up in Chicago, Illinois. He attended Cranbrook School in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, as a boy. Afterwards he studied Chinese at the University of Michigan, graduating in 1962.\n\nIncestuous feelings existed in White's family; his mother was attracted to him. White spoke of his own sexual attraction to his father in an interview: \"I think with my father he was somebody who every eye in the family was focused on and he was a sort of a tyrant and nice-looking, the source of all power, money, happiness, and he was implacable and difficult. He was always spoken of in sexual terms, in the sense he left our mother for a much younger woman who was very sexy but had nothing else going for her. He was a famous womanizer. And he slept with my sister!\" He has also stated: \"Writing has always been my recourse when I've tried to make sense of my experience or when it's been very painful. When I was 15 years old, I wrote my first (unpublished) novel about being gay, at a time when there were no other gay novels. So I was really inventing a genre, and it was a way of administering a therapy to myself, I suppose.\"\n\nWhite declined admission to Harvard University's Chinese doctoral program in favor of following a lover to New York, where he worked for eight years as a staffer at Time-Life Books and freelanced for \"Newsweek\". After briefly relocating to Rome and then New York, he was briefly employed as an editor for the \"Saturday Review\" when the magazine was based in San Francisco in the early 1970s; after the magazine folded in 1973, White returned to New York to edit \"Horizon\" (a quarterly cultural journal) and freelance as a writer and editor for entities, including Time-Life and \"The New Republic\".\n\nWhite is gay and much of his work draws on his gay experience. His debut novel, \"Forgetting Elena\" (1973), set on an island, can be read as commenting on gay culture in a coded manner. The American/Russian novelist Vladimir Nabokov called it \"a marvelous book\". Written with psychotherapist Charles Silverstein, \"The Joy of Gay Sex\" (1977) made him known to a wider readership. His next novel, \"Nocturnes for the King of Naples\" (1978) was explicitly gay-themed and drew on his own life.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1981, White was a member of a gay writers' group, The Violet Quill, that met briefly during that period and included Andrew Holleran and Felice Picano. White's autobiographic works are frank and unapologetic about his promiscuity and his HIV-positive status.\n\nIn 1980, he brought out \"States of Desire\", a survey of some aspects of gay life in America. In 1982, he helped found the group Gay Men's Health Crisis in New York City. In the same year appeared White's best-known work, \"A Boy's Own Story\" — the first volume of an autobiographic-fiction series, continuing with \"The Beautiful Room Is Empty\" (1988) and \"The Farewell Symphony\" (1997), describing stages in the life of a gay man from boyhood to middle age. Several characters in the latter novel are recognizably based on well-known people from White's New York-centered literary and artistic milieu.\n\nFrom 1983 to 1990 White lived in France. In 1984 in Paris he was involved in the foundation of the French HIV/AIDS organisation, AIDES. During this period, he brought out his novel, \"Caracole\" (1985), which centres on heterosexual relationships. After returning to America White maintained his interest in France and French literature, publishing \"Genet: a biography\" (1993), \"Our Paris: sketches from memory\" (1995), \"Marcel Proust\" (1998), \"The Flaneur: a stroll through the paradoxes of Paris\" (2000) and \"Rimbaud\" (2008).\n\nThe novel \"The Married Man\" (2000) is gay-themed and draws on White's life. \"Fanny: A Fiction\" (2003) is a historical novel about novelist Frances Trollope and social reformer Frances Wright in early 19th-century America. White's 2006 play \"Terre Haute\" (produced in New York City in 2009) portrays discussions that take place when a prisoner, based on terrorist bomber Timothy McVeigh, is visited by a writer based on Gore Vidal. (In real life McVeigh and Vidal corresponded but did not meet.)\n\nIn 2005 White published his autobiography, \"My Lives\" — organised by theme rather than chronology — and in 2009 his memoir of New York life in the 1960s and 1970s, \"City Boy\".\n\nWhite has been influential as a literary and cultural critic, particularly on same-sex love and sexuality.\n\nHe is currently a professor of creative writing in Princeton University's Lewis Center for the Arts. In June 2012, White was reported by his husband, Michael Carroll, to be making 'remarkable' recovery after suffering two strokes in previous months.\n\nHe has received many awards and distinctions. Among these he is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters and an Officier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. He received the inaugural Bill Whitehead Award for Lifetime Achievement from Publishing Triangle in 1989, and is also the namesake of the organization's Edmund White Award for Debut Fiction.\n\nIn 2014, Edmund White was presented the Bonham Centre Award from The Mark S. Bonham Centre for Sexual Diversity Studies, University of Toronto, for his contributions to the advancement and education of issues around sexual identification.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15611915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15611915", "title": "Finnish name", "text": "Finnish name\n\nIn Finland, a person must have a surname and can have up to three given names. Surnames are usually inherited patrilineally, while given names are usually chosen by a person's parents. Finnish names come from a variety of dissimilar traditions that were consolidated only in the early 20th century. The first national act on names came into force in 1921, and it made surnames mandatory. Between 1930 and 1985, the Western Finnish tradition whereby a married woman took her husband's surname was mandatory. Previously in Eastern Finland, this was not necessarily the case.\n\nFinnish given names are often of Christian origin (e.g., \"Jukka\" from Greek Johannes), but Finnish and Swedish origins are also common.\n\nIn Finnish, the letter \"j\" denotes the approximant , as in English \"you\". For example, the two different names \"Maria\" and \"Marja\" are pronounced nearly identically. The letter \"y\" denotes the vowel , not found in English, but similar to German \"ü\" and French \"u\". \"R\" is rolled. The stress is always on the first syllable in Finnish. For example, \"Yrjö Kääriäinen\" is pronounced . Double letters always stand for a geminate or longer sound (e.g., \"Marjaana\" has a stressed short followed by an unstressed long ).\n\nPronunciation of Swedish names is similar, but long vowels are not doubled and the stress may be on any syllable. Finland has a long bilingual history and it is not unusual for Finnish speakers to have Swedish surnames or given names. Such names may be pronounced according to Finland–Swedish phonology or, depending on the person named, the person speaking and the language used, a Fennicized variant.\n\nWhen writing Finnish names without the Finnish alphabet available (such as in e-mail addresses), the letters \"ä\" and \"ö\" are usually replaced with \"a\" and \"o\", respectively (e.g., \"Pääkkönen\" as \"Paakkonen\"). This is not the same, but visually recognizable; since they are not linguistically umlauts, they cannot be substituted with \"ae\" and \"oe\" as in German.\n\nFinland has three predominant surname traditions: the West Finnish, the East Finnish and that of the Swedish nobility, clergy, bourgeoisie and military. Until the early 20th century, Finland was a predominantly agrarian society and the names of West Finns were based on their association with a particular area, farm, or homestead (e.g., \"Jaakko Jussila\" (\"Jaakko from the farm of Jussi\")). Farm names typically had the suffix \"-la\" and could refer to the husband (like \"Jussila\") or describe the location (e.g., \"Isoaho\" \"large clearing\"). This name could change every time the person moved to a different farm. Also, even if one had a surname, one would still be better known by the farm name. Farm names, patronyms and village names could be used to disambiguate between different people, but they were not true inherited surnames. For example, in the novel Seven Brothers (Aleksis Kivi, 1870) the character \"Juhani\" was officially summoned as \"Juhani Juhanin-poika Jukola, Toukolan kylästä\"; \"Juhani, son of Juhani, from Jukola farm, Toukola village\".\n\nOn the other hand, the East Finnish surname tradition dates back to the 13th century. There, the Savonians pursued slash-and-burn agriculture which necessitated moving several times during a person's lifetime. This in turn required the families to have surnames, which were in wide use among the common folk as early as the 13th century. By the mid-16th century, the East Finnish surnames had become hereditary. Typically, the oldest East Finnish surnames were formed from the first names of the patriarchs of the families (e.g., \"Ikävalko\", \"Termonen\", \"Pentikäinen\"). In the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries, new names were most often formed by adding the place name of the former or current place of living (e.g., \"Puumalainen\" < Puumala). In the East Finnish tradition, women carried the family name of their fathers in female form (e.g., \"Puumalatar\" < \"Puumalainen\"). By the 19th century, this practice fell into disuse due to the influence of West-European surname tradition. Also, women did not change their surnames with marriage.\n\nIn 1921, surnames became compulsory for all Finns. At this point, if there was no surname, the homestead names were usually adopted as surnames. Because the inhabitants often included farmhands and other non-family, holders of the same surname are not necessarily genetically related. A typical feature of such names is the addition of prefixes \"Ala-\" or \"Ali-\" (Sub-) or \"Ylä-\" (Up-), giving the location of the holding along a waterway in relation of the main holding (e.g., \"Yli-Ojanperä\", \"Ala-Verronen\"). In Pohjanmaa, there are similar prefixes \"Rinta-\" \"downstream\" and \"Latva-\" \"upriver\".\n\nCommon suffixes are \"-nen\" (in oblique form \"-se-\"; e.g., Miettinen—Miettisen \"Miettinen's\"), a diminutive suffix usually meaning \"small\", and \"-la\"/\"-lä\", a locative suffix usually meaning \"place of\". The \"-nen\" suffix was freely interchanged with \"-son\" or \"-poika\" as late as the 16th century, but its meaning was ambiguous as it could refer not only to a \"son\", but any member of a patriarch's family, a farm or even a place. For example the surname Tuomonen could mean \"Son of Tuomo\" or \"Farm of Tuomo\"\nor something else belonging to Tuomo.\n\nA third tradition of surnames was introduced in Finland by the Swedish-speaking upper and middle classes which used typical German and Swedish surnames. By custom, all Finnish-speaking persons who were able to get a position of some status in urban or learned society, discarded their Finnish name, adopting a Swedish, German or (in case of clergy) Latin surnames. In the case of enlisted soldiers, the new name was given regardless of the wishes of the individual. The oldest noble surnames of Swedish origin were not original, but were derived from the charges in the coat of arms, sigil and flag of the family, for example with \"Svärd\" (Swedish: \"sword\"), \"Kurki/Kurck\" (Finnish: \"crane\") and \"Kirves\" (Finnish: \"axe\"). Families of German origin would use the \"von\" suffix (e.g., \"von Wright\").\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th century, the overall modernization process and especially, the political movement of Fennicization caused a movement for adoption of Finnish surnames. At that time, many persons with a Swedish or otherwise foreign surname changed their family name to a Finnish one. The features of nature with endings \"-o/ö\", \"-nen\" (\"Meriö\" < \"meri\" \"sea\", \"Nieminen\" < \"niemi\" \"peninsula\") are typical of the names of this era, as well as more or less direct translations of Swedish names (\"Helleranta\" < \"Hällstrand\"). Fennicizing one's name also concealed non-Finnish origin. For example, Martti Ahtisaari's grandfather was \"Adolfsen\" from Norway. Nevertheless, Fennicization was not mandatory and thus it is common to find entirely Finnish-speaking families with Swedish surnames; having a Swedish name does not imply that one would speak Swedish.\n\nAn effect of industrialization was that large numbers of people moved to the cities and towns and had to adopt a surname. Missing an inherited surname, they invented one from scratch. Initially, these were in Swedish, and they were not very stable; people called them \"superfluous names\" (\"liikanimi\"), and a person could change one's surname several times during their career. Later, Finnish became the preferred language, and themes were taken from nature. Some of the most common examples of this type are \"Laine\" \"comber, wave\", \"Vainio\" \"cultivated field\", \"Nurmi\" \"grassland\", and \"Salo\" \"grove\". When applicable, \"-nen\" or \"-la\"/\"-lä\" could be suffixed, such as in \"Koskinen\" \"rapids + nen\".\n\nIn 21st-century Finland, the use of surnames follows the German model. Every person is legally obliged to have a first and last name. At most, three first names are allowed. A Finnish married couple may adopt the surname that either spouse had as non-married, in which case this name will be the surname of their children. A spouse changing his or her name may decide to \"use\" a double-barrelled name consisting of his or her former and current official surname. In the case where both spouses keep their names they may choose either name for their children, but all siblings must share the same surname.\n\nAll persons have the right to change their surname once without any specific reason. A surname that is un-Finnish, contrary to the usages of the Swedish or Finnish languages, or in use by any person resident in Finland cannot be accepted as the new name, unless valid family reasons or religious or national customs give a reason for waiving this requirement. However, persons may change their surname to any surname that has ever been used by their ancestors, if they can prove such claim.\n\nSurnames behave like regular words when forming grammatical cases. Thus, for example, the genitive of surname \"Mäki\" is \"Mäen\", just like the regular word \"mäki\" (\"hill\") becomes \"mäen\" in the genitive. For given names this is not always the case even if the word is a regular word; for example \"Suvi\" (\"summer\") becomes \"Suvin\" in the genitive, not \"Suven\".\n\nIn 1985, of the types of surnames, 38% of Finns had a \"-nen\" name, 8.9% \"-la\", 7.4% with other derivative suffix (e.g., \"-io/-iö\", as in \"Meriö\", or \"-sto/-stö\", as in \"Niinistö\"), 17.5% other names in Finnish, 14.8% non-Finnish (chiefly Swedish), 13.1% with compound word names (e.g., \"Kivimäki\" \"stone hill\", \"Rautakoski\" \"iron rapids\"). Only 0.3% had a double-barreled name (e.g., marriage of a \"Forsius\" to \"Harkimo\" giving \"Forsius-Harkimo\").\n\nPatronymics were used in official documents until the late 19th century. Finns did not address each other by patronymics in colloquial speech. The natural Finnish way of referring to someone's parentage is the genitive: \"Matin Olli\" (\"Matthew's Olaf\") instead of the solemn \"Olli Matinpoika\" (\"Olaf Matthew's son\"). When patronymics were no longer required in documents, they quickly fell out of use. They are still perfectly legal, but very rare, often representing a deliberate archaism. Unlike in Swedish, Finnish patronymics were not transferred into hereditary family names. Thus, the Finnish situation differs considerably from, for instance, Sweden, which has hundreds of thousands of Johanssons and Anderssons. The Swedish patronymics-like surnames are treated as any other surname. Real patronymics are handled like additional first names, i.e., one must still have a surname. An exception is Icelandic citizens resident in Finland, who are allowed to follow the Icelandic name tradition.\n\nThe native Finnish tradition of first names was lost during the early Christian period, and by the 16th century, only Christian first names were accepted. The popular names were usually the names of saints whose cult was widespread. This resulted in some differences between the Western and Eastern Finnish first names, as the names in Eastern Finland might have had forms derived from Russian or Church-Slavic, instead of Swedish and Latin forms. For example, there are two Finnish cognates of George, \"Yrjö\" < Swedish \"Örjan\" and \"Jyri\" < Russian Юрий (Yuri). The most important source for researching the name forms actually used by the Finns themselves in the 15th to 18th centuries are the surnames preserved in written sources, as these often are formed on the basis of a first name. The first names themselves are usually given in Swedish or Latin forms, as these are the languages used in the sources. The name actually used was a Fennicized form of the name, which might change as the person became older. For example, a person given the Swedish name \"Gustaf\" in the parish register might be called \"Kustu\" as a child, \"Kusti\" as an adolescent, \"Kyösti\" or \"Köpi\" as an adult and \"Kustaa\" as an old man.\n\nIn the early 19th century, almost all Finnish first names were taken from the official almanac, published by the Royal Academy of Turku, later the University of Helsinki. The names were mostly names of the saints whose cult had been popular before the Reformation, but the almanac also incorporated a number of names from the Old Testament and Swedish royalty, which were added to certain days during the 17th and 18th centuries. During the 19th century, the Finnish forms were gradually added to the Finnish almanac, while the Swedish and Latin forms were removed (the Swedish forms were retained in a separate Swedish almanac). At the same time, the vicars gradually started to use Finnish name forms in parish registers. This in turn, cemented the Finnish name forms used.\n\nNames with originally Finnish etymology were revived in the 19th century. In the absence of reliable information about ancient names, parents chose names of mythical characters from folklore (\"Aino\", \"Tapio\"), and many new names were created from Finnish words (\"Seppo\" \"smith\" or \"skilled person\", \"Ritva\" \"birch twig\"). Some clergymen initially refused to christen babies with such \"pagan\" names. The first given name of Finnish origin, \"Aino\", was accepted in the almanac in 1890, followed by numerous others in 1908. About 30% of Finns born in 1910–1939 received a name with Finnish etymology.\n\nBy the 1930s, the use of Finnish names and name forms was stabilized and most of the popular names were noticed in the almanac. Since then, the almanac has been gradually changed to include new, popular names. At present, all names which have at least 1,000 bearers are incorporated into the almanac of the University of Helsinki and given a \"name day\" (). At present, 792 of the 35,000 first names used in Finland are listed in the Finnish almanac. The \"nimipäivä\" calendar follows the Medieval Catholic Saint calendar when applicable.\n\nFirst names are subject to changing fashions, while second or third given names are more traditional and typically trisyllabic. In the table below both first and middle names are counted. Since the digitalization of the Finnish national population database in the 1970s, the most popular names in Finland (of all Finnish residents or citizens who have lived after that point) have been\nOf the names listed, \"Annikki\" and \"Marjatta\" are etymologically related to \"Anna\" and \"Maria\", but they are characters in the \"Kalevala\", not used as given names before the 19th century.\n\nAt present, the Names Act (; ) of 1985 requires that all Finnish citizens and residents have at least one and at the most three first names. Persons who do not have a first name are obligated to adopt one when they are entered into the Finnish national population database. Parents of new-born children must name their child and inform the population registry within two months of the child's birth. The name may be chosen freely, but it must not be\n\n\nWaivers may be granted if valid family, religious or ethnic reasons give grounds to use a name contrary to these principles. Persons may change their first names once without a specific reason. For subsequent changes, valid reasons must be presented.\n\nAs in general in European culture, the surname is seen as more formal and the first names as less formal. Strangers are expected to refer to each other by their surnames and using grammar in formal plural. The use of first names indicates familiarity, and children often refer to each other by first names only. However, in many workplaces familiarity between individuals working on the same site is assumed.\n\nIn contrast to other European tradition, the use of titles such as \"tohtori\" \"Doctor\" with surnames is not very common and is found only in highly formal contexts, or it is considered old-fashioned. The titles equivalent to Mr., Mrs. and Miss are \"herra\", \"rouva\" and \"neiti\", respectively. Thus, for example, in formal contexts, \"Matti Johannes Virtanen\" can be referred to as \"herra Virtanen\" or \"herra Matti Virtanen\", if several Virtanens are present. In most other contexts, simply one name, surname or first name, is used. As in Swedish culture, politeness is often expressed by indirect address, such that the use of names might even be deliberately avoided. In spite of this, formal Finnish features various titles, particularly presidential citations such as \"vuorineuvos\" or \"ministeri\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11654809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11654809", "title": "Flycatcher (comics)", "text": "Flycatcher (comics)\n\nFlycatcher, or Prince Ambrose and later King Ambrose, is a fictional character in the comic book series \"Fables\", created by Bill Willingham. He is based on the Frog Prince and first appeared in \"Fables\" #1 (July 2002).\n\nFlycatcher was once a normal human named Ambrose, until Frau Totenkinder (centuries prior to receiving amnesty) turned him into a frog, who could only return to human form when he found true love. When he did, he became a happily married prince of a small kingdom in the Homelands, with a beautiful wife with whom he had eight children.\nHe lived peacefully with his family, his only quirk being the occasional resumption of his frog curse when he was nervous, scared or especially excited. Fortunately it only took a kiss from his loving wife to return him to human form, and, as time went on, he would often go for years between instances of the curse asserting itself.\nHis tranquil family life was shattered when the Adversary invaded his realm. As Flycatcher prepared to leave to fight the Empire, he was unaware that the enemy troops had already invaded his castle. As he bid farewell to his family, enemy soldiers burst into the room, causing his curse to manifest immediately. Trapped in his frog form, he could only watch helplessly as his younger children were murdered and his wife and eldest daughter repeatedly raped before being killed themselves.\n\nHow Fly eventually returned to his human form is unknown, though it is speculated that he took a last kiss from his dead wife. In deep denial about the deaths of his wife and children, Fly wandered as a beggar for a long time, asking everywhere he went if people had seen his family.\nEventually, he learned of the sanctuary of the mundane world and, figuring that his family would have fled there, traveled there as well. Failing to find any of his family members there, Fly asked one of the magic mirrors retrieved from the Homelands to search for his family on his behalf while he stayed protected in Fabletown — a position which racked him further with guilt. Some of his friends and coworkers were aware of this situation, and together conspired to keep the truth from him, knowing that it would destroy him.\nStill, when drunk, Flycatcher appeared to have a clearer memory of what had really happened to his family (which was believed to be the reason why he'd so rarely turn to drink).\n\nFlycatcher acted as the janitor for the Woodland building, the center of government for Fabletown. However, he wasn't employed in the traditional sense - the nature of his history being such that, if he had a job that he could choose to quit, he would \"have\" to do so and return to the Homelands to seek his missing family. As this would almost certainly result in his death, Bigby Wolf developed a system of convenient deception, whereby Fly was made to work off a never-ending series of short community service orders for a series of minor infractions (usually eating flies).\nFly thus remained in the job that he enjoyed, and where he felt important in the service to his fellow Fables. The arrangement was nearly disrupted when the well-meaning Beast misguidedly freed Fly from his wrongful \"punishment\" after replacing Bigby as Sheriff, and offered to employ him legitimately instead, before Rose Red explained the real nature of the situation to him.\n\nUpon her arrival from the Homelands, Fly began spending a considerable amount of time with Red Riding Hood, having been asked to look after her by his close friend Boy Blue before the latter departed for the Farm. \"Ride\" became enamored of Fly for his sweet and thoughtful nature, and eventually accompanied him to Bigby and Snow White's wedding. Fly, however, seemed oblivious to the fact that Red was falling for him, something that he only seemingly began to realize when she went out into the mundane city, where she had a makeover with him in mind. He was shocked when he saw her and ran away, hiding in the depths of the business office, where his curse then manifested and reverted him once again to his frog form.\n\nEventually, Santa Claus visited Flycatcher on Christmas eve and forced him to reveal that he could still speak as a frog, and also that he still remembered what had happened to his family in the Homelands. Santa then presented Fly with the ghost of his wife, so that she could restore him to human form. He then explained that Fly was destined to play a crucial part in future events, but only if he could learn to accept the past and move on.\n\nDuring \"The Good Prince\", Flycatcher finally faced his past. With his memory fully restored, he resigned from his \"job\" at the Woodlands and swore vengeance on those who had destroyed his family, attempting to enlist Boy Blue's help in training his combat skills. Blue refused, partly on the grounds that Fly's idea was essentially a suicide mission, but more importantly because he didn't want to be responsible for the one truly good Fable losing his innocence.\n\nIt was this purity of spirit that would become central to Fly's actual destiny. Returning to Fabletown, Fly found himself awakening from his sleep as he was supernaturally drawn to the business office, where he encountered the ghost of the Forsworn Knight, now released from his armor. Introducing himself as Lance, the ghost of the great knight informed Fly that he was to act as a guide for the first part of Fly's quest. Lance bequeathed his magical armor to Fly (which resumed its luster after being placed on a pure and just person), and also helped him obtain the legendary Excalibur. He then formally knighted Fly, claiming he was to take up the role of the Once and Future King (formerly held by King Arthur). Fly was imbued with a now-clear vision of what he was meant to do.\n\nFlycatcher proceeded to lead Lancelot into the Witching Well, to find the ghosts of those who had previously been thrown there. Among the ghosts were Little Miss Muffet's spider husband (Mr. Web), Gretel, Shere Khan and Bluebeard, as well as Trusty John (the only Fable besides Fly to jump down the Witching Well while still alive). The ghosts were informed that they would have new flesh while near Flycatcher, on the condition that they serve as his loyal army. They then follow Flycatcher for the long march out of the land of the dead (which lasted more than a month) and into the Homelands, eventually finding the garden kingdom where Flycatcher had once ruled as a prince.\nRechristening his kingdom \"Haven\", Flycatcher brought to him powerful magics that nullified any sent by the Adversary to his regained lands. Fly conquered opposing armies one after another through non-lethal means—he duels one giant to exhaustion using only the flat of his blade and sends his ghost army into the minds of a goblin horde, racking them with their own fears and nightmares. He positions Haven as a \"third course\" beside the two opposing parties in the war between the Adversary's Empire and Fabletown.\nFlycatcher ultimately manages to defeat every enemy sent at him without shedding any blood and graciously accepts his defeated enemies as new citizens of Haven, since their return to the Empire will result in being executed for their failure.\n\nEventually, the Adversary assembles all of the wooden soldiers into the dreaded Golden Horde. As they march — immune to the fear of the army of ghosts, and with the magic of the Sacred Grove too strong to be nullified by Flycatcher's — the advancing army appears unbeatable. Fly senses the end of his visions, and believes that it means his final act in the conflict will result in his death. He walks alone to meet the Horde, apparently for the purpose of surrender.\nHowever, to the surprise of puppets and Fly alike, his magical armor (the armor of the Unspoiled Knight) adds itself to the Sacred Grove's magic, causing all of the wooden soldiers to suddenly sprout into an enormous grove of trees. Flycatcher, having not expected his own survival, explains that the Adversary is now defeated; the soldiers, nearly every one in the Empire, have all become a new Sacred Grove. Because there can be only one Sacred Grove in all the worlds, this means that Gepetto's will never grow back. Moreover, the new Sacred Grove's magic has increased Fly's own, meaning he would be able to continue expanding his kingdom of benevolent rule.\n\nWhen questioned about his intentions toward the Sacred Grove — explicitly, whether he intends to raise his own army of wooden soldiers and capture lands from the Empire — Fly experiences a nightmarish vision of an older version of himself waging war on countless worlds with such a wooden soldier army. This causes him to declare that the grove is to be left alone, and that it be no more than a place of quiet reflection and peace.\n\nDuring Boy Blue's recovery from the injury caused by the enchanted arrow he had been shot with during \"War and Pieces\", Blue told Flycatcher about how naive he was being about Red Riding Hood's feelings for him, and that he felt the two should get together.\nSoon after that, Flycatcher was quick to notice that Blue's arm had turned gangrenous and infected, despite his previous apparent recovery. When Blue was eventually taken to the Farm after the fall of Fabletown to Mr. Dark, his wound now seriously infected by the dark magic contained within the witching cloak (which was originally a sack carried by Mr. Dark), Flycatcher attempted to use the magic given to him by Haven and the Sacred Grove to heal Blue. However, this attempt failed, and Flycatcher was reduced to tears as he told everyone to say their last goodbyes to his best friend.\nBlue died the next morning and was buried in Haven on the hill overlooking the baseball field there.\n\nLater, Flycatcher finally decided to follow Blue's advice and move forward with his feelings towards Red Riding Hood, kissing her, which caused him to accidentally transform back into a frog. However, he decided he had allowed the curse to dominate him for too long, and he managed to turned himself back under his own power.\nShortly afterwards, Flycatcher was called forward on a sad matter when one of his goblin subjects, Mr. Brump, ate a squirrel Fable, Mr. Seedcrate, while drunk. Flycatcher begged Trusty John to find a way to allow Brump mercy and thereby keep him from breaking his policy about killing.\nFlycatcher used his magic to gain Blue's strength by touching his grave and hardened his heart, simply banishing Mr. Brump from Haven, under penalty of death if he should return. Then, tired of hiding his feelings, he asked Red Riding Hood to spend the night with him, which she happily agreed to.\n\nIn \"The Last Story of Flycatcher\" (released at the end of issue #141), it is revealed that Flycatcher and Red Riding Hood eventually got married. They were shown to be happily raising their four children (Trent, Lucy, Bobby and an unnamed son) years after their previous appearance in the series.\n\nTall and decidedly gangly, Fly is almost universally popular in Fabletown, as he's known for being kind and friendly to all (if not exceptionally bright). Indeed, he is generally treated with respect and politeness even by the most shady and harsh fables in the town. He becomes an invaluable part of administering Fabletown as the primary custodian of the Woodlands office. Snow and Bigby name one of their children Ambrose in their friend's honor. Although still ostensibly searching for his family, Fly develops something of a crush on Briar Rose during their centuries in Fabletown, to the extent that his kiss was enough to wake her from her curse.\n\n\"Fables\" artist Mark Buckingham has stated that Flycatcher is his favorite character; Buckingham has said that he is the only truly innocent character in the series. This has since been backed up in the series itself, in which it has been noted that Flycatcher was the only Fable to reach the mundane world who had nothing to be forgiven, covered up, or otherwise absolved of, under the Fabletown amnesty.\n"}
{"id": "30241967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30241967", "title": "Frank Foster (Coronation Street)", "text": "Frank Foster (Coronation Street)\n\nFrank Foster is a fictional character from the British ITV soap opera, \"Coronation Street\", played by Andrew Lancel. He made his debut appearance on 20 January 2011. Frank was introduced as a business associate of Carla Connor (Alison King). In December 2011, it was announced Frank would be leaving \"Coronation Street\" at the end of his storyline. Two months later, it was confirmed Frank would be murdered as part of a \"whodunit\" storyline. Five regular characters became suspects during the investigation, but his mother, Anne Foster (Gwen Taylor) eventually confessed to killing him. Frank made his last on-screen appearance on 8 March 2012.\n\nFrank comes to Underworld to do a deal with Carla Connor and he takes an interest in her assistant, Michelle Connor (Kym Marsh). Carla tells Michelle that they need to impress Frank, so she goes out for a meal with him to discuss business arrangements, much to the anger of her boyfriend, Ciaran McCarthy (Keith Duffy). Frank later returns to do a business deal with Carla and meets Maria Connor (Samia Smith), Michelle's replacement. Carla tells Maria to go to his house to finalise a business deal and Frank cooks dinner for them, and tells Maria that he is willing to seal the deal. Whilst they sit and have a drink on his sofa, Frank tells Maria that he is attracted to her and tries to force himself on her. A distraught Maria escapes and later tells Carla about Frank's attack. Tracy Barlow (Kate Ford) arranges a date with Frank but he stands her up when he has some business to deal with. Maria warns Tracy about Frank assaulting her but Tracy refuses to listen and tells Frank about Maria's accusation. Frank then cancels the deal with Underworld, much to Carla's anguish as the factory was relying on his business. However, a smitten Tracy continues dating him and Carla persuades him to do business, much to Maria's indignation. Tracy tires of Frank and deliberately keeps mentioning her ex Steve McDonald (Simon Gregson) whilst on a date. Frank is not impressed and ends their relationship.\n\nFrank later offers to buy a share in Underworld, which Carla happily accepts. Everyone at the factory celebrates the factory's new victory, but Maria quits her job, and tells her boyfriend Chris Gray (Will Thorp) about what happened with Frank; Chris threatens Frank. Maria reluctantly reports Frank to the police, after a heated encounter with Carla. The police arrest Frank, but he is soon released for lack of evidence. A few months later when Carla is informed of the death of her mother, Frank comforts her, and after she gets heavily drunk at the Bistro Bar and later the Rover's Return, Frank is told by Peter Barlow (Chris Gascoyne) to look after her. He takes Carla home, and lets her sleep on the couch. When they arrive for work the next morning together, gossip begins to spread, and Maria becomes convinced they are a couple. Chris confronts Frank in the Rovers, leading to a pub brawl. Some time later, Carla goes to stay at Frank's and they kiss, thus beginning a relationship.\n\nFrank proposes to Carla in the Rovers. After originally rejecting his offer, a confrontation with Peter, whom she really loves, causes her to change her mind, and later that day she tells Frank that she will marry him. In the weeks that follow, Frank begins planning their future together as husband and wife, even mentioning the prospect of children and making an offer on a plush suburban house he has chosen for them. The offer is rejected, to Carla's secret relief. It soon becomes apparent that Carla does not really want to marry Frank and she comes under increasing pressure after meeting his parents to celebrate the engagement. She gets drunk during a meal with Frank's parents and jumps into Frank's car. Frank tries to stop her driving but she ignores his pleas and accidentally runs over Stella Price (Michelle Collins) before crashing into the betting office. In order to save his fiancée, a quick-thinking Frank places an unconscious Carla in the passenger seat to make it appear that he was driving. When questioned by police, he tells them that he was responsible and is lucky to escape the charges with points on his driver's licence and a fine.\n\nCarla eventually tells Frank the truth about her not wanting to go through with the wedding. However, Frank becomes aggressive, pinning her against the wall and hitting her twice. He eventually rapes her, claiming that she made him the person he is. Carla phones Maria, and together they report Frank's sexual assault to the police. Frank is arrested for rape but released on bail while the police hunt for evidence. To anger Carla, Frank persuades his mother to begin working at \"Underworld\", as he is not allowed anywhere near Carla. Anne attempts to discredit Carla, disbelieving the claims against her son. Frank opens his own factory and persuades some of Carla's workers to join him. One of these is Sally Webster (Sally Dynevor), with whom he soon begins an affair. Frank is devastated when his father dies. He hires a private investigator to follow Carla and Peter and she gives him pictures of them kissing. He and his mother then expose their relationship. Frank is found not guilty of raping Carla and he goes free.\n\nFrank returns to work at the factory alongside Carla. He begins seeing Jenny Sumner (Niky Wardley) and they concoct a plan to buy Carla out of the factory for a low price and sack the workforce. Sally learns of Frank and Jenny's relationship and realises he did rape Carla. She tells Michelle, but they arrive at the factory shortly after Carla signs the factory over to Frank, who gloats about his plan. Peter tries to attack him, but is held back. Frank then throws his mother out of the factory and his home. Carla comes to confront Frank and she makes him admit that he raped her. Sean Tully (Antony Cotton) and Julie Carp (Katy Cavanagh) later find Sally with Frank's dead body on the floor of the factory. On the day of Frank's funeral, Anne confesses to Sally that she killed her son. Anne later explains that she overheard him taunting Carla about the rape and blamed him for Sam's death. She went to the factory to get her husband's watch back, but when Frank resisted and pushed her away, Anne picked up a whiskey bottle and hit him.\n\nOn 23 November 2010, it was announced actor Andrew Lancel had joined the cast of \"Coronation Street\" as businessman, Frank Foster. A writer for itv.com said Frank is a business associate of Carla Connor (Alison King), who eventually becomes a factory client. Of his casting, Lancel said \"I'm made up to be here. It's been a long time coming and I'm a big fan of the show so I'm thrilled. Frank looks like he's going to be fun to play, there's more to him than meets the eye, he's definitely not one-sided.\" Lancel revealed he was an extra on \"Coronation Street\" when he was a teenager and had always watched the show, so when he was asked to join the show he could not resist it. Lancel made his on screen debut as Frank in January 2011.\n\nThe storyline which saw Frank sexually assaulting Maria Connor was originally intended for the character of Michelle Connor. But when Kym Marsh, who plays Michelle, took an early maternity leave, the story was hastily re-written for Maria instead. Lancel admitted that filming the sexual assault scene was \"uncomfortable\", but hoped that Frank would become \"one of the villains people love to hate\". He described the character as \"charismatic, charming and you’re never quite sure what he'll do next.\" He added \"Don't mess with Frank. He doesn't worry about using force of a different kind to keep [Maria] quiet. He turns things around and says he could take her to court over what she is saying. That takes some ego. I'm not trying to justify what he did... He's a bad man. [...] Underworld is run by two beautiful women and he's got power over them as they aren't doing that well... he enjoys the power he now has over her from a business point of view.\" In August 2011, it was announced Frank's parents, Anne (Gwen Taylor) and Sam Foster (Paul Clayton), would be arriving in September.\n\nIn June 2011, it was announced that Carla Connor will reportedly be left fighting for her life after being attacked by her boyfriend. The factory owner, played by Alison King, will be subjected to a physical and sexual assault by Frank Foster after he suspects she is cheating on him with Peter Barlow. Carla will consider leaving Frank prior to the attack, but feels she owes him after he invested in her business and takes the blame for a car accident she is responsible for. The plot was a prominent storyline over the summer and aired after the 9pm watershed during a week of special episodes. Tracy Barlow will offer to give Frank a positive character reference in court, while Peter's marriage to Leanne suffers.\n\nOn 19 December 2011, Angharad Llewellyn from \"The Sun\" announced Lancel would be leaving \"Coronation Street\" in 2012 following the conclusion of the rape storyline. On 17 January 2012, Lancel revealed there would be \"lots more to come\" from Frank before his departure from the show. The actor said he had not finished filming yet and that he would be around for a little while to come. He explained \"People are asking me all the time, 'Are you leaving?' It doesn't feel like I'm leaving, because I've always known the whole thing. I read the other day that it's coming to a conclusion, and I think that's a really good way of putting it.\" Lancel added that he had liked playing Frank. Daniel Kilkelly reported Lancel had finished filming with \"Coronation Street\" in early February. He made his final on screen appearance as Frank on 8 March 2012.\n\nOn 3 February 2012, \"Coronation Street\" confirmed Frank would be killed off as part of a whodunit storyline. The news came shortly after the episode showing Frank being found not guilty of raping Carla was broadcast. A writer for the official \"Coronation Street\" website said \"Now events will take an even more dramatic turn as tensions rise and vengeance will be on the minds of several characters, climaxing in Frank's death! And with so many residents having a motive for killing the twisted factory boss – the list of suspects reads like a 'Who's Who' of Weatherfield.\" Over the following weeks, Frank manages to alienate himself as he tries to get revenge on Carla for dragging him through court. Lancel said Frank's true colours would be exposed and he does not think his life is in danger for a moment. His body will be found in the factory, following \"days of arguments and confrontations with associates, lovers and enemies alike.\" A reporter for the \"Metro\" later announced that five regular characters would become suspects during the investigation into Frank's murder. Frank will be found dead on the floor of the Underworld factory by Sally Webster (Sally Dynevor). The \"Metro\" reporter said Sally comes under suspicion when she is found standing over Frank's body with bloodied hands. Carla, Peter Barlow (Chris Gascoyne) and Michelle Connor (Kym Marsh) are questioned by the police, while Sally's ex-husband, Kevin (Michael Le Vell), will also fall under suspicion. Lancel praised his character's final storyline, calling it \"classic Corrie\".\n\nWhile appearing on \"BBC Breakfast\", Lancel said Frank had made a lot of enemies on the Street for a number of reasons. The actor explained \"He's been monstrous, horrendous. People know what he's done - he's assaulted and twisted the knife into many people, and he's closed down the factory, so there's plenty of people who could be bumping off Frank and there are many suspects.\" Lancel believed the five regular characters named as suspects were all potential killers and he was looking forward to watching the mystery unfold on screen. He added that the way Frank's final scenes were shot, viewers would not see the killer. Carla later emerged as the bookies' top suspect with odds of 2/1. Rupert Adams, a spokesman for William Hill said Carla has her reasons to kill Frank and that the dark horse is Kirk Sutherland (Andrew Whyment).\n\nFrank was nominated for Best Baddy at 2012 Virgin Media TV Awards. He received 1.39% of the vote. Lancel earned a nomination for Best Villain at the All About Soap Awards and he won Villain of the Year at the British Soap Awards. Jon Wise of \"The People\" called Frank an \"evil bully\". The scenes showing Sally discovering Frank's true colours topped the ratings on 2 March 2012 with 9.19 million people tuning in. Sally Dynevor said that Lancel should win \"Best Villain\" at the soap awards and praised Lancel for his portrayal of Frank. Dynevor added that Frank is part of a \"great storyline\" and that he is such a great character.\n\n"}
{"id": "36339924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36339924", "title": "Gaetano Kagwa", "text": "Gaetano Kagwa\n\nGaetano Jjuko Kagwa is a Ugandan actor and broadcaster. He played Abe Sakku on Nana Kagga's TV series, Beneath The Lies - The Series. He rose to fame when he represented Uganda in the first edition of \"Big Brother Africa\" in 2003. He has also hosted the television show \"Studio 53\" on Mnet. Between the years 2004 to 2008, Gaetano was the host of the \"Capital in the Morning Show\" on Kenyan radio station 98.4 Capital FM.\n\nGaetano was born Gaetano Jjuko Kagwa on 22 June 1972 in Kampala, Uganda. Gaetano moved to Kenya when he was five years old and then to Lesotho when he was nine. It was in Lesotho that he completed his high school education. In 1993, he joined the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse, USA where he graduated with a degree in political science in 1997.\n\nGaetano's career as a radio presenter goes back several years before signing up with Kenya's Capital FM. Prior to moving to neighboring country Kenya as a radio presenter, Gaetano worked for Capital FM Uganda as well as \"Vision Voice\", a Ugandan radio station.\n\nWhile a third year law student at Makerere University, Gaetano went to represent Uganda in the premier \"Big Brother Africa\" series in 2003. Gaetano made it to the final day of the competition, finishing in fourth place ahead of Namibian representative Stefan Ludik but behind Botswana's Warona Setshwaelo.\n\nHe is most remembered for starting a romantic relationship with South African housemate Abby Plaatjes. While at the house, Gaetano won the chance to swap places with \"Big Brother UK\" contestant Cameron Stout. He won the chance to swap places to the UK house after he won a cocktail making challenge. His stint at the UK house caused media outrage when he called representative Tania a \"piggy\", something that made her shed tears and threaten to leave the house for good.\n\nGaetano married Enid Kushemeza in August 2009. Gaetano has for most of his life been an advocate of awareness and prevention of HIV/AIDS and, in 2007, he was appointed UNAIDS special representative.\n"}
{"id": "42777011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42777011", "title": "Garda whistleblower scandal", "text": "Garda whistleblower scandal\n\nIn 2014, material was revealed by two whistleblowers of An Garda Síochána (Irish police), Maurice McCabe and John Wilson, to the Confidential Recipient. The disclosures and the handling of the disclosures, led to the resignation of Ireland's Minister for Justice and Equality, Alan Shatter. It was also part of the background leading up to the resignation of the Garda Commissioner, Martin Callinan. It was also part of the reason for the retirement of his successor Nóirín O'Sullivan.\n\nThe scandal that ensued would have huge ramifications for both An Garda Siochana and the Irish government. The whistleblower scandal led to the resignation of Martin Callinan in March 2014. Gemma O'Doherty, a journalist for the \"Irish Independent\", was subsequently vindicated after she had been fired by the newspaper for pursuing a story regarding Callinan and his abuse of the penalty points system. The casualties of the scandal reached the highest levels of government, with Alan Shatter resigning from the Cabinet in May 2014. McCabe was also found to be subject to a smear campaign, orchestrated by senior Garda officials, namely Dave Taylor, the Garda Press Officer, and former Commissioner Martin Callinan.A new 'Policing Authority' was established to ensure that scandal within Garda Siochana remained at a minimum and that the Government could have more involvement with the daily operations of the organisation. The Irish government also pledged to launch a \"new era of policing\". Enda Kenny, who was Taoiseach for the majority of the scandal, apologised in Dáil Éireann for the damage caused to Maurice McCabe by Garda officials. The Disclosures Tribunal continued the investigation into the smear campaign against McCabe and Nóirín O'Sullivan subsequently resigned after the reports of the tribunal were published. Another casualty of the scandal was Frances Fitzgerald, the Tánaiste at the time of her resignation. She had resigned over apparent mishandling of emails that discussed details of the scandal. She was later proven to have acted appropriately as Minister for Justice and Equality at all times by the Charleton Tribunal.\n\nMaurice McCabe was a Garda Sergeant, recognised for being a whistleblower on corruption within An Garda Síochána, Ireland's national police force.\n\nDuring the early 2000s, McCabe had served as sergeant-in-charge at the Garda station in the town of Bailieborough, County Cavan. There had been a number of concerns expressed by McCabe during his time as station sergeant. Incidents such as off-duty Gardai attempting to deal with a suicide situation. Among other incidents were Gardai making use of unmarked Garda vehicles while off-duty, along with issues over the amount of hours the guards were actually working. McCabe lodged multiple complaints about slipping police standards in Bailieborough and the lack of initiative of several Gardai.\n\nMcCabe resigned as sergeant-in-charge of the station in January 2006 after an investigation into an assault in Crossan's Pub in the town was mishandled. The Garda in charge of handling the situation had failed to investigate the incident properly and subsequently contacted the victim in the case. The victim was asked to withdraw the charges against the perpetrator. McCabe, who heard about this afterwards, was shocked and had \"never seen anything like it within the force\". McCabe lodged a complaint through the \"confidential recipient\" system. This system, which was part of PULSE, a computer program used by the Gardai, was restricted from Maurice McCabe on the 14 December 2012. Two senior Gardai travelled from Westmeath to his home in Cavan to communicate this to the Sergeant - an action that was unheard of within the force.\n\nMcCabe later approached Taoiseach Enda Kenny and Transport Minister Leo Varadkar, who passed details on to Justice Minister Alan Shatter. Shatter asked for an internal garda inquiry into the penalty points complaints, with Assistant Commissioner John O'Mahoney failing to even interview McCabe. A letter from McCabe, read onto the Oireachtas record, said the way the matter had been handled had \"destroyed me, my career and my family\". Shatter later wrongly accused McCabe of refusing to co-operate with his inquiry, a claim for which McCabe unsuccessfully sought an apology.\n\nLuke 'Ming' Flanagan, at the time a TD, suggested McCabe be appointed Callinan's successor as Garda Commissioner.\n\nOn October 31, 2018, Sergeant McCabe announced he was retiring from An Garda Síochána that night.\n\nJohn Wilson (born 17 April 1963) is a former Garda, recognised for blowing the whistle on Penalty Points system irregularities within Ireland's national police force.\n\nWilson first brought information of Garda penalty points malpractice to the attention of members of Dáil Éireann under the Garda Siochána Act 2005 in 2012, having been unable to have the matter adequately handled within the Garda Complaints System. He left the force the following year, having served for more than 30 years (since 1982).\n\nWilson later approached Taoiseach Enda Kenny and Transport Minister Leo Varadkar, who passed details on to Justice Minister Alan Shatter. Shatter asked for an internal garda inquiry into the penalty points complaints, with Assistant Commissioner John O'Mahoney failing to even interview Wilson.\n\nWilson has recommended no tribunal, but has called for an independent public inquiry. \"Maybe an independent High Court judge; I would settle for that.\" He has asked that motorists who benefited from the alleged \"corruption of Gardaí\" be interviewed. He also called for an apology from Shatter (who later resigned over the scandal) and from Kenny, saying that Shatter and Callinan \"ridiculed\" him for his actions.\n\nIn response to growing concern at mismanagement within the Gardaí arising from the whistleblower's allegations, the \"Guerin Report\" into corruption within the Garda Síochána (Ireland's national police force) was published on 9 May 2014. This looked only at issues raised by the serving Garda, Sergeant Maurice McCabe.\n\nThe report, compiled by Sean Guerin SC, investigated allegations that serious crimes were improperly investigated by the police and was critical of the treatment of whistleblower McCabe, who was harassed and subjected to death threats after attempting to disclose information. Alan Shatter resigned as Minister for Justice and Equality in advance of its publication. His successor Frances Fitzgerald immediately announced the establishment of a Commission of Investigation.\n\nGuerin recommended the establishment of a comprehensive Commission of Investigation whose terms of reference ought to include “definite matters of urgent public importance” such as the case of Jerry McGrath, who was convicted of murdering Sylvia Roche-Kelly in Limerick while on bail in 2007.\n\nGuerin concluded: \"No complex organisation can succeed in its task if it cannot find the means of heeding the voice of a member whose immediate supervisors hold in the high regard in which Sgt McCabe was held. Ultimately An Garda Síochána does not seem to have been able to do that. Nor does the Minister for Justice and Equality, despite his having an independent supervisory and investigation function with specific statutory powers. The same appears true of GSOC (Garda Síochána Ombudsman Commission), although this review is hampered in that regard by the fact that GSOC has not made documentation available.\"\n\nOn 13 May 2014, the government discussed the report at cabinet. Maurice McCabe, the whistleblower whose work prompted the report, spoke of feeling vindicated \"after six years of fighting the system\".\n\nMcCabe's fellow whistleblower John Wilson described the contents of the report as \"disgusting, truly disgusting\".\n\nOn 15 May 2014, during a Dáil debate on the issue, Pearse Doherty named Garda Keith Harrison as the latest whistleblower.\n\nOn 9 February 2017, a report in the \"Irish Examiner\", and a subsequent \"Prime Time\" special, revealed how Maurice McCabe was treated in the aftermath of the scandal, including when he was reported to Tusla, the Child and Family Agency, for child sexual abuse. This provoked outrage, with McCabe stating his intention to sue the State over the accusations. In February 2017, the government promised another commission of investigation into the 2017 allegations, to be chaired by Peter Charleton, a judge of the Supreme Court. McCabe demanded a Tribunal of Inquiry, which would take evidence in public rather than in private, and the government agreed to this after opposition pressure. \n\nCharleton formally opened the Disclosures Tribunal (Tribunal of Inquiry into protected disclosures made under the Protected Disclosures Act 2014 and certain other matters following Resolutions) with an introductory statement on 27 February 2017. Public sittings commenced on 4 July 2017. The first week of this module examined the circumstances surrounding the creation of an incorrect sexual abuse report and whether it was seized upon by senior gardai to blacken Sergeant McCabe's name.\n\nAt the end of November 2017, the second interim report of the Disclosures Tribunal found that claims by Garda Keith Harrison and his partner Marisa Simms were \"entirely without any validity\", that their allegations against social workers and police had \"simply collapsed\", and that social workers accused of abuse of office by them were \"entitled to feel deeply upset at being targeted with such allegations\". Garda Harrison said he was disappointed but not surprised by the findings.\n\nOn 11 October 2018, the third interim report of the was released by Judge Peter Charleton. It vindicated Sergeant McCabe, former Commissioner Nóirín O'Sullivan and former Minister for Justice Frances Fitzgerald. It severely criticised former Commissioner Martin Callinan and former Garda press officer, Superintendant David Taylor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48812251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48812251", "title": "Habib Chamieh", "text": "Habib Chamieh\n\nHabib Chamieh, OMM (born 7 October 1966 in Beirut, Lebanon) is the Apostolic administrator of the Maronite Catholic Eparchy of San Charbel in Buenos Aires.\n\nHabib Chamieh joined the OMM and on 7 September 1991 made his perpetual vows. Chamieh received on 14 August 1992 his ordination to the priesthood.\n\nOn April 17, 2013 Pope Francis appointed him Titular bishop of Nomentum and ordered him Apostolic Administrator of the Eparchy of San Charbel of Buenos Aires. Maronite Patriarch of Antioch, Bechara Boutros al-Rahi, OMM, ordained him bishop on May 25 of the same year. His co-consecrators were the Emeritus Bishop of the diocese of San Charbel in Buenos Aires, Charbel Georges Merhi, MLM and Emeritus Bishop of Cairo, François Eid, OMM.\n\n"}
{"id": "37808467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37808467", "title": "Hans Delmotte", "text": "Hans Delmotte\n\nHans Delmotte (born 15 December 1917 in Liège, died 1945) was a Belgian SS doctor at the Auschwitz concentration camp in the branch of the Hygiene Institute of the Waffen SS. \nInitially he refused to take part in selections, allegedly going as far as to tell his superiors \"You can send me to the front or gas me myself, but I won't do it\". By the late fall of 1944 he finally was persuaded to take part in selections. For Delmotte's dissertation, he reserved a Jewish prisoner doctor and professor to assist him. For this research, Delmotte took part in typhus experiments on prisoners at Auschwitz. Delmotte's dissertation:. Contributions to pathological physiology of gastric secretion in typhoid fever was already completed in 1944.\n\nAfter the evacuation of Auschwitz in January 1945, Delmotte briefly continued to work in Dachau. While trying to make his way back to Belgium, he was arrested by members of the U.S. Army. During the transfer to a prison, Delmotte managed to shoot himself.\n\n\nLiterature on Hans Delmotte in the German National Library.\n\n↑ a b Aleksander Lasik: Die Organisationsstruktur des KL Auschwitz, in: Aleksander Lasik, Franciszek Piper, Piotr Setkiewicz, Irena Strzelecka: Auschwitz 1940-1945. Studien zur Geschichte des Konzentrations und Vernichtungslagers Auschwitz., Band I: Aufbau und Struktur des Lagers, Staatliches Museum Auschwitz-Birkenau, Oświęcim 1999, S. 320.\n\n↑ Hermann Langbein: People in Auschwitz. Frankfurt am Main, Berlin Wien 1980, S. 405f.\n\n↑ a b c Robert Jay Lifton: „The murderers are amongst us“, in: Der Spiegel, Ausgabe 27 vom 4. Juli 1988.\n\n↑ Hans Münch über Delmotte Zitiert bei: Hermann Langbein: Menschen in Auschwitz. Frankfurt am Main, Berlin Wien 1980, S. 405\n\n↑ Hans Halter: „The Murderers are amongst us: NS-Doctors, on the Euthanasia“, in: Der Spiegel, Ausgabe 25 vom 20. Juni 1998.\n"}
{"id": "50974308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50974308", "title": "Horst-Gregorio Canellas", "text": "Horst-Gregorio Canellas\n\nHorst-Gregorio Canellas (6 June 1921 – 23 July 1999) was a Spanish-German entrepreneur and football official. Canellas is best known for his role in breaking the 1971 Bundesliga scandal. He was also a hostage on the hijacked German Lufthansa Flight 181 in 1977.\n\nCanellas, son of a Spanish father and a German mother, was born in Plauen, Saxony, in 1921. After the end of World War II he spent some time in Spain and then moved to Hesse and adopted German citizenship. He became the managing director of a fruit importer in Frankfurt.\n\nIn 1964 Canellas became chairman of Kickers Offenbach, a club then playing in the second division Regionalliga Süd. Offenbach won promotion to the Bundesliga in 1968 and 1970 but suffered immediate relegation on both occasions.\n\nThe day after the end of the 1970–71 Bundesliga season Canellas invited officials of the German Football Association and the press to his 50th birthday celebration. It was there that he broke the 1971 Bundesliga scandal by replaying voice recordings he had made of attempts to manipulate Bundesliga games through bribes. Earlier attempts to inform the German Association had been ignored by the latter. Canellas stepped down immediately as chairman of Kickers Offenbach and was initially banned for life from holding any office at a German football club but this ban was lifted in 1976. The following scandal took 18 month to clear up and saw 52 players and two managers banned and fined.\n\nCanellas retired from his business in 1974. On a flight from Mallorca to Frankfurt in 1977 the plane he was on, Lufthansa Flight 181, was hijacked by members of the PLO and the hostages were later freed by the German counter-terrorism unit GSG 9 in Mogadishu.\n\nCanellas died of lung cancer after a long illness in Offenbach in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "28915707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28915707", "title": "House of Herbert", "text": "House of Herbert\n\nThe House of Herbert is a British Noble House founded by William Herbert, known as \"Black William\", the son of William ap Thomas, founder of Raglan Castle, a follower of Edward IV of England in the Wars of the Roses. The name Herbert originated in 1461 when William was granted the title Baron Herbert of Raglan, having assumed an English-style surname in place of his Welsh patronymic, \"ap William\".\n\n\nWilliam ap Thomas\n"}
{"id": "22318942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22318942", "title": "Ironworker", "text": "Ironworker\n\nAn ironworker is the American term for a tradesman who works in the iron working industry. A structural/ornamental ironworker fabricates and erects (or even dismantles) the structural steel framework of pre-engineered metal buildings, single and multi-story buildings, stadiums, arenas, hospitals, towers, wind turbines, and bridges. Ironworkers assemble the structural framework in accordance with engineered drawings. Ironworkers also unload, place and tie reinforcing steel bars (rebar) as well as install post-tensioning systems, both of which give strength to the concrete used in piers, footings, slabs, buildings, and bridges. Ironworkers load, unload, place, and set machinery and equipment as well as operate power hoists, forklifts, and aerial lifts. They unload, place, and fasten metal decking, safety netting, and edge rails to facilitate safe working practices. Ironworkers finish buildings by erecting curtain wall and window wall systems, stairs and handrails, metal doors, and sheeting and elevator fronts. Ironworkers perform all types of industrial maintenance as well.\n\nHistorically ironworkers mainly worked with wrought iron or cast iron, but today they utilize many different materials including ferrous and non-ferrous metals, plastics, glass, concrete, and composites.\n\nPractically overnight, bridge carpenters became ironworkers during the 1880s. It was seen as a new, exciting job for pioneers in America, despite its dangerous drawbacks. For about two dollars per day, a worker could risk his life on high structures.\n\nAfter the industrial revolution, the production of cast iron parts brought about the use of cranes. This heavy equipment was used in the early 1900s to construct high level structures. This new technology brought about a special form of trade workers called ironworkers. They used cranes to lift steel girders into place, and used rivets to connect the girders to the columns of a structure. The mortality rate of men working in this trade was the highest of all trades, and the ironworker could be lucky to go 10 years without a serious or fatal injury.\n\nIn the late 19th century, workers formed the International Union of Ironworkers because of concerns they had about safety on-the-job and the lack of protection from employers. The union's first order of business was to give widows of ironworkers $50 to cover the costs of a funeral and to give disabled ironworkers $5 a week to compensate for lost wages. With the increase in benefits from unionization, the Union greatly increased its presence in numbers in the early 1900s. Approximately 10,000 workers were considered Ironworkers through the Union.\n\nIn the early 1900s, during the third great immigration wave the Ironworker wage in real 2010 US dollars was $9.50 (2010) to $12 (2010) per hour (40 to 50 cents an hour in 1900). Following the imposition of immigration quotas in 1921 wages rose to $17.50 (2010) an hour ($1.37) for a structural ironworker just prior to the Great Depression and the real wage subsequently only dropped 10% to $16.00 (2010) ($1.05) given the deflation during the depression. However, following the wartime destruction of manufacturing complexes - with the exception of North America, 1956 wages for structural, ornamental, and rebar ironworkers rose to $27.30 (2010) an hour ($3.40). By 1970, through the Coldwar buildup, iron worker wages peaked at $44.80 (2010) ($7.97). Then, following the 1965 new immigration policy and the start of the fourth great migration wave , wages fell 10% to $40.38 (2010) by 1980 ($15.26), and fell another 20% to $29.90 (2010) per hour ($20.88) by 1990, comparable to the 50's wage rate. With the end of the Cold War buildup in 1991, ironworker rates have since stayed constant and were $29.30 (2010) an hour ($24.15) in 2002. In 2010 the mean wage for Ohio ironworkers, both union and nonunion, is $24.66 per hour; the 75th percentile for the nation is 29.51 - likely for the unionized workforce and indicates that for the past 20-years Ironworker wages have been stagnant for various reasons - most prominently the offset in real wages created by debt, today 126% of income compared to 40% in 1952 allowing short-term survival on less than the living wage.\n\nAbout 10% of all ironworkers in NYC are Mohawk Indians, down from about 15% earlier in the 20th century. Ironworkers from this and other Iroquois tribes were involved in building nearly all of the skyscrapers and bridges in New York City, including the Time Warner Center, the Rockefeller Center, the Empire State building, and the Chrysler Building.\n\nThere are three main types of ironworks: reinforcing, structural, and ornamental.\n\nA reinforcing (rebar) ironworker, colloquially known as a \"Rodbuster\", works with reinforcing bars to make structures based on a certain design. Reinforcing ironworkers assemble structures with reinforcing bars by tying the bars together with tie wire. They place the rebar inside of forms, so concrete can be poured over top of them to form a solid structure. When reinforcing floors, concrete blocks are used to raise the rebar off of the deck, so no rebar can be seen underneath of the deck of the floor after the forms are stripped. In addition, ironworkers often have to cut the steel that they have for a job to fit into certain positions. For example, the rebar will have to be cut with a cutting torch, so it can fit around a drain. In some instances, welded wire fabric is used to help strengthen concrete; however, it is difficult to place this fabric in the concrete because it must be placed while the concrete is being poured into the forms.\n\nThe average pay for a reinforcing bar ironworker in residential construction was an hourly wage of $23.59 in early 2009 and rebar ironworkers in commercial and industrial construction earn an hourly wage of $39.11.\n\nThe typical tools of a reinforcing bar ironworker are pliers, tie wire reel, rod buster bag, and a rebar hook. The main tool of a reinforcing bar ironworker is their work pliers. The pliers cuts soft annealed rebar tie wire and twists the wire into place. The pliers have a hook bend handle, and a spring in between the handles for self-opening of the pliers. The pliers cut ACSR, screws, nails and most hardened wire. Also, the pliers are finished with a black oxide paint to resist rust on the tool. A tie wire reel is a lightweight aluminum alloy mechanism used for dispensing tie wire efficiently. A rod buster bag is a split-leather double bottom pouch used for holding tools while they are not in use. A rebar hook is a hook made of solid steel that has a snap hook in front, and fits onto a tool belt easily.\n\nThe British call a reinforcing ironworker a steelfixer. In the United Kingdom and Ireland a steelfixer's main tool is the pincer-like nips.\n\nBefore construction can begin, the structural ironworkers put together the cranes that will be used to lift the steel columns, beams, and girders according to structural blueprints. To hoist the steel, structural ironworkers use cables connected to the crane to lift the beams onto the steel columns. A rope called a tagline is attached to the beams so an ironworker can control the beams if necessary. The crane hoists steel into place, and the ironworkers position the beams in place with spud wrenches to align bolt holes. Then, the beams can be bolted to the steel columns. This process is continued until there are no beams or columns left to construct the structure. Structural ironworkers also erect joist girders, bar joists, trusses, and install metal decking.\n\nThe average annual income for a structural ironworker in the early 2000s was 15.85 dollars per hour; however, a full-time structural ironworker could make between 30 dollars per hour to 40 dollars per hour depending on the location of the work. \nCurrent wages for Local Union #1 Chicago Ironworkers can be found at the Chicago Ironworkers local union website.\n\nThe typical structural ironworker tools are the spud wrench, bolt bag, sleever bars, bull pins, drift pins, and beaters. The spud wrench is the most important tool of a structural ironworker because it serves dual purposes. It is a wrench to tighten bolts, and the opposite end of the wrench can be used to align holes of beams with columns. It is made from a steel alloy, and it has a gradual taper to easily align bolt holes on beams. The bolt bag is a heavy canvas bag used for storing bolts and nuts that erect a structure. A sleever bar is a steel alloy bar used to pry on beams to put them in place, when a spud wrench is insufficient. A beater is forged steel head mallet with a lacquered hickory handle for beating a tapered pin or bull pin into the bolt hole to align the others at the beam end or \"point\" and stuff the rest of the holes. Drift pins have a tapper on both ends and get to be the largest diameter in the center and are used for aligning holes made up of multiple plates.\n\nAlthough use of fall harnesses has reduced fatalities in this sector over time, structural steel erection remains one of the most dangerous occupations in construction. Workplace accidents claim the lives of approximately 38 out of every 100,000 full-time ironworkers each year.\n\nOrnamental ironworkers install metal windows into structures, erect curtain walls and window wall systems that cover the steel, erect metal stairways, cat walks, gratings, ladders, doors of all types, railings, fencing, gates, metal screens, elevator fronts, platforms, and entranceways. A variety of materials are used to make these structures and this type of work is fastened by welding or bolting to the main structure. A common name for an ornamental ironworker is a finisher because they are responsible for finishing the structures after the structural and rebar work is done.\n\nThe main wage rate for ornamental ironworkers ranges from $20.89 per hour to $45.00 per hour. The wages are adjusted according to the location of the work and the nature of the work.\n\nThe main tool of the ornamental ironworker is an arc welder. According to ironworkers.org, welding and burning equipment are considered “tools of the trade.” However, any ironworker must be certified to weld on a project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "385155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385155", "title": "Italians", "text": "Italians\n\nThe Italians ( ) are a Romance ethnic group and nation native to the Italian peninsula and its neighbouring territories. Most Italians share a common culture, history, ancestry or language. Legally, all Italian nationals are citizens of the Italian Republic, regardless of ancestry or nation of residence (Italian nationality largely being based on jus sanguinis) and may be distinguished from people of Italian descent without Italian citizenship and from ethnic Italians living in territories adjacent to the Italian Peninsula without Italian citizenship. The majority of Italian nationals are speakers of Italian, or a regional variety thereof. However, around half also speak another regional or minority language native to Italy; although there is disagreement on the total number, according to UNESCO there are approximately 30 languages native to Italy (often misleadingly referred to as \"Italian dialects\").\n\nIn 2017, in addition to about 55 million Italians in Italy (91% of the Italian national population), Italian-speaking autonomous groups are found in neighbouring nations: almost a quarter million are in Switzerland, a large population is in France, the entire population of San Marino, and there are smaller groups in Slovenia and Croatia, primarily in Istria and Dalmatia. Because of the wide-ranging diaspora, about 5 million Italian citizens and nearly 80 million people of full or partial Italian ancestry live outside their own homeland, most notably in parts of Europe bordering Italy, South America, North America, Australia, Zealandia, and The Middle East.\n\nItalians have greatly influenced and contributed to diverse fields, notably the arts and music, science and technology, fashion, cuisine, sports, jurisprudence, banking and business both abroad and worldwide. Furthermore, Italian people are generally known for their localism (both regionalist and municipalist) .\n\nThe Latin name \"Italia\" according to Strabo's \"Geographica\" was used by Greeks to indicate the southwestern tip of the Italian peninsula, corresponding roughly to the current region of Calabria, from the strait of Messina to the line connecting the gulf of Salerno and gulf of Taranto.\nIt most likely originates with Oscan \"Víteliú\", meaning \"land of young cattle\" (\"cf.\" Latin \"vitulus\" \"calf\", Umbrian \"vitlo\" \"calf\"). The bull was a symbol of the southern Italic tribes and was often depicted goring the Roman wolf as a defiant symbol of free Italy during the Social War. \nThe name was later extended to include all the Italian peninsula south of the Rubicon, and still later, by the end of the 1st century BC, to all of the peninsula and beyond (including Istria, Gallia Cisalpina, Raetia and the islands of Sicily, Malta, Sardinia and Corsica).\n\nLatin \"Italicus\" as a substantive meaning \"a man of Italy\" is first recorded in Pliny the Elder, \"Letters\" 9.23 (\"Italicus es an provincialis\" \"are you an Italian or a provincial?\", referring to the extension of Roman citizenship to all of \"Italia\" after 88 BC). \nThe adjective \"italianus\", from which are derived the Italian (and also French and English) name of the Italians is medieval.\n\nThe Italian peninsula was divided into a multitude of tribal or ethnic territory prior to the Roman conquest of Italy in the 3rd century BC. After a series of wars between Greeks and Etruscans, the Latins, with Rome as their capital, gained the ascendancy by 272 BC, and completed the conquest of the Italian peninsula by 218 BC.\n\nThis period of unification was followed by one of conquest in the Mediterranean, beginning with the First Punic War against Carthage. In the course of the century-long struggle against Carthage, the Romans conquered Sicily, Sardinia and Corsica. Finally, in 146 BC, at the conclusion of the Third Punic War, with Carthage completely destroyed and its inhabitants enslaved, Rome became the dominant power in the Mediterranean. \n\nThe process of Italian unification, and the associated Romanization, culminated in 88 BC, when, in the aftermath of the Social War, Rome granted its Italian allies full rights in Roman society, extending Roman citizenship to all Italic peoples.\n\nFrom its inception, Rome was a republican city-state, but four famous civil conflicts destroyed the republic: Lucius Cornelius Sulla against Gaius Marius and his son (88–82 BC), Julius Caesar against Pompey (49–45 BC), Marcus Junius Brutus and Gaius Cassius Longinus against Mark Antony and Octavian (43 BC), and Mark Antony against Octavian.\nOctavian, the final victor (31 BC), was accorded the title of Augustus by the Senate and thereby became the first Roman emperor. Augustus created for the first time an administrative region called \"Italia\" with inhabitants called \"Italicus populus\", stretching from the Alps to Sicily: for this reason historians like Emilio Gentile called him \"Father of Italians\".\n\nIn the 1st century BC, \"Italia\" was still a collection of territories with different political statuses. Some cities, called \"municipia\", had some independence from Rome, while others, the \"coloniae\", were founded by the Romans themselves. Around 7 BC, Augustus divided Italy into eleven \"regiones\".\nDuring the Crisis of the Third Century the Roman Empire nearly collapsed under the combined pressures of invasions, military anarchy and civil wars, and hyperinflation. In 284, emperor Diocletian restored political stability. The importance of Rome declined, because the city was far from the troubled frontiers. \nThe seats of the Caesars were Augusta Treverorum (on the River Rhine frontier) for Constantius Chlorus and Sirmium (on the River Danube frontier) for Galerius who also resided at Thessaloniki.\nUnder Diocletian, Italy became the \"Dioecesis Italiciana\", subdivided into thirteen provinces, now including Raetia. Under Constantine the Great, Italy became the Praetorian prefecture of Italy (\"praefectura praetoria Italiae\"), and was subdivided into two dioceses. \"Diocesis Italia annonaria\" (Italy of the annona, governed from Milan) and \" Diocesis Italia Suburbicaria\"' (Italy \"under the government of the \"urbs\"\", i.e. governed from Rome).\nChristianity became the Roman state religion in AD 380, under emperor Theodosius I.\nThe last Western emperor, Romulus Augustulus, was deposed in 476 by a Germanic foederati general in Italy, Odoacer. His defeat marked the end of the western part of the Roman Empire, and the end of the political unification of Italy until the establishment of the modern Kingdom of Italy in 1861. \n\nOdoacer ruled well for 13 years after gaining control of Italy in 476. Then he was attacked and defeated by Theodoric, the king of another Germanic tribe, the Ostrogoths. Theodoric and Odoacer ruled jointly until 493, when Theodoric murdered Odoacer. Theodoric continued to rule Italy with an army of Ostrogoths and a government that was mostly Italian. After the death of Theodoric in 526, the kingdom began to grow weak. By 553, emperor Justinian I expelled the Ostrogoths, and Italy was included into the Byzantine Empire under the Justinian dynasty.\nByzantine rule in Italy collapsed again by 572 as a result of invasions by another Germanic tribe, the Lombards.\nThe peninsula was now dominated by the Kingdom of the Lombards, with minor remnants of Byzantine control especially in the south.\n\nDuring the 5th and 6th centuries, the popes increased their influence in both religious and political matters in Italy. It was usually the popes who led attempts to protect Italy from invasion or to soften foreign rule. For about 200 years the popes opposed attempts by the Lombards, who had captured most of Italy, to take over Rome as well. The popes finally defeated the Lombards with the aid of two Frankish kings, Pepin the Short and Charlemagne. Using land won for them by Pepin in 756, the popes established political rule in what were called the Papal States in central Italy.\n\nThe Lombards remained a threat to papal power, however, until they were crushed by Charlemagne in 774. Charlemagne added the Kingdom of the Lombards to his vast realm. In recognition of Charlemagne's power, and to cement the church's alliance with him, Charlemagne was crowned emperor of the Romans by Pope Leo III in 800. After Charlemagne's death in 814, his son Louis the Pious succeeded him. Louis divided the empire among his sons, and\nFrankish Italy became part of Middle Francia, extending as far south as Rome and Spoleto. This Kingdom of Italy became part of the Holy Roman Empire in the 10th century, while southern Italy was under the rule of the Lombard Principality of Benevento or of the Byzantine Empire, in the 12th century absorbed into the Kingdom of Sicily.\n\nFrom the 11th century on, Italian cities began to grow rapidly in independence and importance. They became centres of political life, banking, and foreign trade. Some became wealthy, and many, including Florence, Rome, Genoa, Milan, Pisa, Siena and Venice, grew into nearly independent city-states. Each had its own foreign policy and political life. They all resisted the efforts of noblemen and emperors to control them.\n\nThe emergence of identifiable Italian dialects from Vulgar Latin, and as such the possibility of a specifically \"Italian\" ethnic identity, has no clear-cut date, but takes place from roughly 12th century. Modern standard Italian derives from the written vernacular of Tuscan writers of the 12th century.\nThe recognition of Italian vernaculars as literary languages in their own right begins with \n\"De vulgari eloquentia\", an essay written by Dante Alighieri at the beginning of the 14th century.\n\nDuring the 14th and 15th centuries, some Italian city-states ranked among the most important powers of Europe. Venice, in particular, had become a major maritime power, and the city-states as a group acted as a conduit for goods from the Byzantine and Islamic empires. In this capacity, they provided great impetus to the developing Renaissance, began in Florence in the 14th century, and led to an unparalleled flourishing of the arts, literature, music, and science.\n\nHowever, the city-states were often troubled by violent disagreements among their citizens. The most famous division was between the Guelphs and Ghibellines. The Guelphs supported supreme rule by the pope, and the Ghibellines favoured the emperor. City-states often took sides and waged war against each other. During the Renaissance, Italy became an even more attractive prize to foreign conquerors. After some city-states asked for outside help in settling disputes with their neighbours, King Charles VIII of France marched into Italy in 1494. Charles soon withdrew, but he had shown that the Italian peninsula could be conquered because they were not united. After the Italian Wars, Spain emerged as the dominant force in the region. Venice, Milan, and other city-states retained at least some of their former greatness during this period, as did Savoy-Piedmont, protected by the Alps and well defended by its vigorous rulers.\n\nThe French Revolution and Napoleon influenced Italy more deeply than they affected any other outside country of Europe. The French Revolution began in 1789 and immediately found supporters among the Italian people. The local Italian rulers, sensing danger in their own country, drew closer to the European kings who opposed France. After the French king was overthrown and France became a republic, secret clubs favouring an Italian republic were formed throughout Italy. The armies of the French Republic began to move across Europe. In 1796, Napoleon Bonaparte led a French army into northern Italy and drove out the Austrian rulers. Once again, Italy was the scene of battle between the Habsburgs and the French. Wherever France conquered, Italian republics were set up, with constitutions and legal reforms. Napoleon made himself emperor in 1804, and part of northern and central Italy was unified under the name of the Kingdom of Italy, with Napoleon as king. The rest of northern and central Italy was annexed by France. Only Sicily and the island of Sardinia, which had been ceded to the House of Savoy in 1720 and had been under their rule ever since, remained free of French control.\n\nFrench domination lasted less than 20 years, and it differed from previous foreign control of the Italian peninsula. In spite of heavy taxation and frequent harshness, the French introduced representative assemblies and new laws that were the same for all parts of the country. For the first time since the days of ancient Rome, Italians of different regions used the same money and served in the same army. Many Italians began to see the possibility of a united Italy free of foreign control.\n\nAfter the Battle of Waterloo, the reaction set in with the Congress of Vienna allowed the restoration of many of the old rulers and systems under Austrian domination. The concept of nationalism continued strong, however, and sporadic outbreaks led by such inveterate reformers as Giuseppe Mazzini occurred in several parts of the peninsula down to 1848–49. This \"Risorgimento\" movement was brought to a successful conclusion under the able guidance of Camillo Benso, conte di Cavour, prime minister of Piedmont.\n\nCavour managed to unite most of Italy under the headship of Victor Emmanuel II of the house of Savoy, and on 17 March 1861, the Kingdom of Italy was proclaimed with Victor Emmanuel II as king. Giuseppe Garibaldi, the popular republican hero of Italy, contributed much to this achievement and to the subsequent incorporation of the Papal States under the Italian monarch. Italian troops occupied Rome in 1870, and in July 1871, this formally became the capital of the kingdom. Pope Pius IX, a longtime rival of Italian kings, considered himself a \"prisoner\" of the Vatican and refused to cooperate with the royal administration. Only in 1929 the Roman Pope accepted the unified Italy with Rome as capital.\n\nIn the decades following unification, Italy started to create colonies in Africa, and under Benito Mussolini's fascism conquered Ethiopia founding in 1936 the Italian Empire. World War I completed the process of Italian unification, with the annexation of Trieste, Istria, Trentino-Alto Adige and Zara. The Italians grew to 45 millions in 1940 and the land, whose economy had been until that time based upon agriculture, started its industrial development, mainly in northern Italy. But World War II soon destroyed Italy and its colonial power.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1948, the outlines of a new Italy began to appear. Victor Emmanuel III gave up the throne on 9 May 1946, and his son, Umberto II, became king. On 2 June Italy held its first free election after 20 years of Fascist rule (the so-called \"Ventennio\"). Italians chose a republic to replace the monarchy, which had been closely associated with Fascism. They elected a Constituent Assembly to prepare a new democratic constitution. The Assembly approved the constitution in 1947, which came into force since 1 January 1948.\n\nFrom the Magna Graecia period to the 17th century, the inhabitants of the Italian peninsula were at the forefront of Western culture, being the fulcrum and origin of Magna Graecia, Ancient Rome, the Roman Catholic Church, Humanism, the Renaissance, Baroque, the Counter-Reformation and Neoclassicism.\n\nItaly also became a seat of great formal learning in 1088 with the establishment of the University of Bologna, the first university in the Western World. Many other Italian universities soon followed. For example, the Schola Medica Salernitana, in southern Italy, was the first medical school in Europe. These great centres of learning presaged the \"Rinascimento\": the European Renaissance began in Italy and was fueled throughout Europe by Italian painters, sculptors, architects, scientists, literature masters and music composers. Italy continued its leading cultural role through the Baroque period and into the Romantic period, when its dominance in painting and sculpture diminished but the Italians re-established a strong presence in music.\n\nItalian explorers and navigators in the 15th and 16th centuries left a perennial mark on human history with the modern \"discovery of America\", due to Christopher Columbus. In addition, the name of the American continents derives from the geographer Amerigo Vespucci's first name. Also noted, is explorer Marco Polo who travelled extensively throughout the eastern world recording his travels.\n\nDue to comparatively late national unification, and the historical autonomy of the regions that comprise the Italian peninsula, many traditions and customs of the Italians can be identified by their regions of origin. Despite the political and social isolation of these regions, Italy's contributions to the cultural and historical heritage of the Western world remain immense. Famous elements of Italian culture are its opera and music, its iconic gastronomy and food, which are commonly regarded as amongst the most popular in the world, its cinema (with filmmakers such as Federico Fellini, Michelangelo Antonioni, Mario Monicelli, Sergio Leone, Alberto Sordi, etc.), its collections of priceless works of art and its fashion (Milan and Florence are regarded as some of the few fashion capitals of the world).\n\nOver the ages Italian literature had a vast influence on Western philosophy, beginning with the Greeks and Romans, and going onto Renaissance, The Enlightenment and modern philosophy.\nItalian Medieval philosophy was mainly Christian, and included several important philosophers and theologians such as St Thomas Aquinas. Aquinas was the student of Albert the Great, a brilliant Dominican experimentalist, much like the Franciscan, Roger Bacon of Oxford in the 13th century. Aquinas reintroduced Aristotelian philosophy to Christianity. He believed that there was no contradiction between faith and secular reason. He believed that Aristotle had achieved the pinnacle in the human striving for truth and thus adopted Aristotle's philosophy as a framework in constructing his theological and philosophical outlook. He was a professor at the prestigious University of Paris.\n\nItaly was also affected by the Enlightenment, a movement which was a consequence of the Renaissance and changed the road of Italian philosophy. Followers of the group often met to discuss in private salons and coffeehouses, notably in the cities of Milan, Rome and Venice. Cities with important universities such as Padua, Bologna and Naples, however, also remained great centres of scholarship and the intellect, with several philosophers such as Giambattista Vico (1668–1744) (who is widely regarded as being the founder of modern Italian philosophy) and Antonio Genovesi. Italian society also dramatically changed during the Enlightenment, with rulers such as Leopold II of Tuscany abolishing the death penalty. The church's power was significantly reduced, and it was a period of great thought and invention, with scientists such as Alessandro Volta and Luigi Galvani discovering new things and greatly contributing to Western science. Cesare Beccaria was also one of the greatest Italian Enlightenment writers and now considered one of the fathers of classical criminal theory as well as modern penology. Beccaria is famous for his masterpiece \"On Crimes and Punishments\" (1764), a treatise (later translated into 22 languages) that served as one of the earliest prominent condemnations of torture and the death penalty and thus a landmark work in anti-death penalty philosophy.\n\nSome of the most prominent philosophies and ideologies in Italy during the late 19th and 20th centuries include anarchism, communism, socialism, futurism, fascism, and Christian democracy. Both futurism and fascism (in its original form, now often distinguished as Italian fascism) were developed in Italy at this time. From the 1920s to the 1940s, Italian Fascism was the official philosophy and ideology of the Italian government led by Benito Mussolini. Giovanni Gentile was one of the most significant 20th-century Idealist/Fascist philosophers. Meanwhile, anarchism, communism, and socialism, though not originating in Italy, took significant hold in Italy during the early 20th century, with the country producing numerous significant Italian anarchists, socialists, and communists. In addition, anarcho-communism first fully formed into its modern strain within the Italian section of the First International. Antonio Gramsci remains an important philosopher within Marxist and communist theory, credited with creating the theory of cultural hegemony.\n\nItalian literature may be unearthed back to the Middle Ages, with the most significant poets of the period being Dante Alighieri, Petrarch, and Giovanni Boccaccio.\nDuring the Renaissance, humanists such as Leonardo Bruni, Coluccio Salutati and Niccolò Machiavelli were great collectors of antique manuscripts. Many worked for the organized Church and were in holy orders (like Petrarch), while others were lawyers and chancellors of Italian cities, like Petrarch's disciple, Salutati, the Chancellor of Florence, and thus had access to book copying workshops.\nOne of the most remarkable poets of the early 19 and 20th century writers was Giacomo Leopardi, who is widely acknowledged to be one of the most radical and challenging thinkers of the 19th century. Italo Svevo, the author of \"La coscienza di Zeno\" (1923), and Luigi Pirandello (winner of the 1934 Nobel Prize in Literature), who explored the shifting nature of reality in his prose fiction and such plays as \"Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore\" (\"Six Characters in Search of an Author\", 1921).\nFederigo Tozzi and Giuseppe Ungaretti were well-known novelists, critically appreciated only in recent years, and regarded one of the forerunners of existentialism in the European novel.\n\nSince the Roman Empire, most western contributions to Western legal culture was the emergence of a class of Roman jurists. During the Middle Ages, St. Thomas Aquinas, the most influential western scholar of the period, integrated the theory of natural law with the notion of an eternal and biblical law. During the Renaissance, Prof. Alberico Gentili, the founder of the science of international law, authored the first treatise on public international law and separated secular law from canon law and Roman Catholic theology. Enlightenment's greatest legal theorists, Cesare Beccaria, Giambattista Vico and Francesco Mario Pagano, are well remembered for their legal works, particularly on criminal law.\nFrancesco Carrara, an advocate of abolition of the death penalty, was one of the foremost European criminal lawyers of the 19th century. During the last periods, numerous Italians have been recognised as the prominent prosecutor magistrates.\nItalians have been the central figures of countless inventions and discoveries and they made many predominant contributions to various fields. During the Renaissance, Italian polymaths such as Leonardo da Vinci (1452–1519), Michelangelo (1475–1564) and Leon Battista Alberti (1404–72) made important contributions to a variety of fields, including biology, architecture, and engineering. Galileo Galilei (1564–1642), a physicist, mathematician and astronomer, played a major role in the Scientific Revolution. His achievements include the invention of the thermometer and key improvements to the telescope and consequent astronomical observations, and ultimately the triumph of Copernicanism over the Ptolemaic model. Other astronomers such as Giovanni Domenico Cassini (1625–1712) and Giovanni Schiaparelli (1835–1910) made many important discoveries about the Solar System.\nPhysicist Enrico Fermi (1901–54), a Nobel prize laureate, led the team in Chicago that built the first nuclear reactor and is also noted for his many other contributions to physics, including the co-development of the quantum theory. He and a number of Italian physicists were forced to leave Italy in the 1930s by Fascist laws against Jews, including Emilio G. Segrè (1905–89) (who discovered the elements technetium and astatine, and the antiproton), and Bruno Rossi (1905–93), a pioneer in Cosmic Rays and X-ray astronomy. Other prominent physicists and scientists include: Amedeo Avogadro (most noted for his contributions to molecular theory, in particular Avogadro's law and the Avogadro constant), Giulio Natta (the inventor of the first catalyst for the production of isotactic propylene and among the fathers of macromolecular chemistry, for which he won the Nobel prize for chemistry along with Karl Ziegler), Evangelista Torricelli (inventor of the barometer), Alessandro Volta (inventor of the electric battery), Guglielmo Marconi (inventor of radio), Antonio Meucci (known for developing a voice-communication apparatus, often credited as the inventor of the first telephone before even Alexander Graham Bell), Galileo Ferraris (one of the pioneers of AC power system, invented the first induction motor), Ettore Majorana (who discovered the Majorana fermions), and Carlo Rubbia (1984 Nobel Prize in Physics for work leading to the discovery of the W and Z particles at CERN).\n\nIn biology, Francesco Redi was the first to challenge the theory of spontaneous generation by demonstrating that maggots come from eggs of flies and he described 180 parasites in detail; Marcello Malpighi founded microscopic anatomy; Lazzaro Spallanzani conducted important research in bodily functions, animal reproduction, and cellular theory; Camillo Golgi, whose many achievements include the discovery of the Golgi complex, paved the way to the acceptance of the Neuron doctrine; Rita Levi-Montalcini discovered the nerve growth factor (awarded 1986 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine); Angelo Ruffini first described the Ruffini endings and was known for his work in histology and embryology; Filippo Pacini discovered the Pacinian corpuscles and was the first to isolate the cholera bacillus \"Vibrio cholerae\" in 1854, before Robert Koch's more widely accepted discoveries 30 years later. In chemistry, Giulio Natta received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1963 for his work on high polymers. Giuseppe Occhialini received the Wolf Prize in Physics for the discovery of the pion or pi-meson decay in 1947. \nDuring the Middle Ages, Leonardo Fibonacci, the greatest Western mathematician of the Middle Ages, introduced the Hindu–Arabic numeral system to the Western World and he also introduced the sequence of Fibonacci numbers which he used as an example in Liber Abaci. Gerolamo Cardano, introduced the probability and established the binomial coefficients and binomial theorem and he also invented some essential onjects. During the Renaissance, Luca Pacioli established accounting to the world, published the first work on Double-entry bookkeeping system. Galileo Galilei made several significant advances in mathematics. Bonaventura Cavalieri's works anticipated integral calculus and popularized logarithms in Italy. Jacopo Riccati, who was also a jurist, invented the Riccati equation. Maria Gaetana Agnesi, the first woman to write a mathematics handbook, become the first woman Mathematics Professor at a University. Gian Francesco Malfatti, posed the problem of carving three circular columns out of a triangular block of marble, using as much of the marble as possible, and conjectured that three mutually-tangent circles inscribed within the triangle would provide the optimal solution, which are now known as Malfatti circles. Joseph-Louis Lagrange, who was one of the most influential mathematician of his time, made essential works to analysis, number theory, and both classical and celestial mechanics. Gregorio Ricci-Curbastro invented the Tensor calculus and made meaningful works on algebra, infinitesimal analysis, and papers on the theory of real numbers. Giuseppe Peano, founded the mathematical logic, the set theory, and alongside John Venn drew the first Venn diagram. Gregorio Ricci-Curbastro is well known for his invention on absolute differential calculus (tensor calculus), further developed by Tullio Levi-Civita, and its applications to the theory of relativity. Beniamino Segre is one of the main contributor of algebraic geometry and one of the founders of finite geometry. Paolo Ruffini is credited for his innovative work in mathematics, creating \"Ruffini's rule\" and co-creating the Abel–Ruffini theorem. Ennio de Giorgi, a Wolf Prize in Mathematics recipient in 1990, solved Bernstein's problem about minimal surfaces and the 19th Hilbert problem on the regularity of solutions of Elliptic partial differential equations.\n\nAs Italy is home to the greatest number of UNESCO World Heritage Sites (51) to date and it is home to half the world's great art treasures, Italians are known for their significant architectural achievements, such as the construction of arches, domes and similar structures during ancient Rome, the founding of the Renaissance architectural movement in the late-14th to 16th centuries, and being the homeland of Palladianism, a style of construction which inspired movements such as that of Neoclassical architecture, and influenced the designs which noblemen built their country houses all over the world, notably in the UK, Australia and the US during the late 17th to early 20th centuries. Several of the finest works in Western architecture, such as the Colosseum, the Milan Cathedral and Florence cathedral, the Leaning Tower of Pisa and the building designs of Venice are found in Italy.\n\nItalian architecture has also widely influenced the architecture of the world. British architect Inigo Jones, inspired by the designs of Italian buildings and cities, brought back the ideas of Italian Renaissance architecture to 17th-century England, being inspired by Andrea Palladio. Additionally, Italianate architecture, popular abroad since the 19th century, was used to describe foreign architecture which was built in an Italian style, especially modelled on Renaissance architecture.\n\nFrom folk music to classical, music has always played an important role in Italian culture. Instruments associated with classical music, including the piano and violin, were invented in Italy, and many of the prevailing classical music forms, such as the symphony, concerto, and sonata, can trace their roots back to innovations of 16th- and 17th-century Italian music.\nItalians invented many of the musical instruments, including the piano and violin.\n\nMost notable Italians composers include the Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina, Claudio Monteverdi, the Baroque composers Scarlatti, Corelli and Vivaldi, the Classical composers Paganini and Rossini, and the Romantic composers Verdi and Puccini, whose operas, including \"La bohème\", \"Tosca\", \"Madama Butterfly\", and \"Turandot\", are among the most frequently worldwide performed in the standard repertoire. Modern Italian composers such as Berio and Nono proved significant in the development of experimental and electronic music. While the classical music tradition still holds strong in Italy, as evidenced by the fame of its innumerable opera houses, such as La Scala of Milan and San Carlo of Naples, and performers such as the pianist Maurizio Pollini and the late tenor Luciano Pavarotti, Italians have been no less appreciative of their thriving contemporary music scene.\n\nItalians are amply known as the mothers of opera. Italian opera was believed to have been founded in the early 17th century, in Italian cities such as Mantua and Venice. Later, works and pieces composed by native Italian composers of the 19th and early 20th centuries, such as Rossini, Bellini, Donizetti, Verdi and Puccini, are among the most famous operas ever written and today are performed in opera houses across the world. La Scala operahouse in Milan is also renowned as one of the best in the world. Famous Italian opera singers include Enrico Caruso and Alessandro Bonci.\n\nIntroduced in the early 1920s, jazz took a particularly strong foothold among Italians, and remained popular despite the xenophobic cultural policies of the Fascist regime. Today, the most notable centres of jazz music in Italy include Milan, Rome, and Sicily. Later, Italy was at the forefront of the progressive rock movement of the 1970s, with bands like PFM and Goblin. Italy was also an important country in the development of disco and electronic music, with Italo disco, known for its futuristic sound and prominent usage of synthesizers and drum machines, being one of the earliest electronic dance genres, as well as European forms of disco aside from Euro disco (which later went on to influence several genres such as Eurodance and Nu-disco).\n\nProducers and songwriters such as Giorgio Moroder, who won three Academy Awards for his music, were highly influential in the development of EDM (electronic dance music). Today, Italian pop music is represented annually with the Sanremo Music Festival, which served as inspiration for the Eurovision song contest, and the Festival of Two Worlds in Spoleto. Singers such as pop diva Mina, classical crossover artist Andrea Bocelli, Grammy winner Laura Pausini, and European chart-topper Eros Ramazzotti have attained international acclaim.\n\nSince the development of the Italian film industry in the early 1900s, Italian filmmakers and performers have, at times, experienced both domestic and international success, and have influenced film movements throughout the world.\n\nFollowing the Fascist era, characterized by the Telefoni Bianchi genre, they got international critical acclaim through the Neorealist genre, and starting from the 1960s through the Commedia all'italiana genre as well as through a number of auteurs such as Vittorio De Sica, Federico Fellini, Pier Paolo Pasolini, Luchino Visconti, Michelangelo Antonioni and Roberto Rossellini. Actresses such as Sophia Loren, Giulietta Masina and Gina Lollobrigida achieved international stardom during this period.\n\nSince the early 1960s they also popularized a large number of genres and subgenres, such as Peplum, Macaroni Combat, Musicarello, Poliziotteschi and Commedia sexy all'italiana. The Spaghetti Western achieved popularity in the mid-1960s, peaking with Sergio Leone's \"Dollars Trilogy\", which featured enigmatic scores by composer Ennio Morricone. Erotic Italian thrillers, or \"Giallos\", produced by directors such as Mario Bava and Dario Argento in the 1970s, influenced the horror genre worldwide. In recent years, directors such as Ermanno Olmi, Bernardo Bertolucci, Giuseppe Tornatore, Gabriele Salvatores, Roberto Benigni, Matteo Garrone, Paolo Sorrentino and Luca Guadagnino brought critical acclaim back to Italian cinema.\n\nSo far, Italy has won 14 Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film, the most of any country, and 12 Palme d'Or, the second-most of any country.\n\nItalians have a long tradition in sport.\nIn numerous sports, both individual and team, Italy has been very successful.\n\nAssociation football is the most popular sport in Italy.\nItaly is one of the most successful national teams in association football having four FIFA World Cups, one UEFA European Championship and one Olympic tournament.\nAmongst the players who won the FIFA World Cup there are Giuseppe Meazza, Silvio Piola (to date the highest goalscorer in Italian first league history), Dino Zoff, Paolo Rossi, Marco Tardelli, Bruno Conti, Gianluigi Buffon, Fabio Cannavaro, Alessandro Del Piero, Andrea Pirlo and Francesco Totti.\nAmongst those who did not win the World Cup but laureated as European champions are Gianni Rivera, Luigi Riva (to date Italy's leading scorer of all time), Sandro Salvadore, Giacomo Bulgarelli, Pietro Anastasi and Giacinto Facchetti.\nOther prominent players who achieved success at club level are Giampiero Boniperti, Romeo Benetti, Roberto Boninsegna, Roberto Bettega, Roberto Baggio and Paolo Maldini.\nOf the above-mentioned, the goalkeeper Dino Zoff, who served in the National team from 1968 to 1983, is to date the only Italian player to have won both the European championship (in 1968) and the FIFA World Cup (in 1982), apart from being the oldest winner ever of the World Cup.\nAt club level, to date Italy has won a total of 12 European Cup / Champions' Leagues, 9 UEFA Cups / UEFA Europa League and 7 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup.\n\nMotorcycle racers such as Giacomo Agostini and Valentino Rossi are recognized as some of the greatest sportstars of all time. Federica Pellegrini, one of the few female swimmers to have set world records in more than one event has been one of the world's most successful swimmers. Italian athletes have won 549 medals at the Summer Olympic Games, and another 114 medals at the Winter Olympic Games. Jessica Rossi scored a Shooting sport world record of 75 in the qualification and a world record of 99. As for Olympic games, 663 Italians won medals, particularly in Swordsmanship, which makes them the 6th most successful ethnic group in Olympic history. There are more than 2,000,000 Italian skiers in the world, most of them in the north and in the centre. Italian skiers received good results in the Winter Olympic Games, World Cup, and World Championships.\n\nItalians are the second of the most who have won the World Cycling Championship more than any other country after Belgium. The Giro d'Italia is a world-famous long-distance cycling race held every May, and constitutes one of the three Grand Tours, along with the Tour de France and the Vuelta a España, each of which last approximately three weeks.\nTennis has a significant following near courts and on television. Italian professional tennis players are almost always in the top 100 world ranking of male and female players. Beach tennis with paddle racquet was invented by Italians, and is practised by many people across the country.\nVolleyball is played by a lot of amateur players and professional players compete in the Italian Volleyball League, regarded as the best and most difficult volleyball league in the world. The male and female national teams are often in the top 4 ranking of teams in the world.\nAthletics is a popular sport for Italians, as the Italian World and Olympic champions are very celebrated people.\nIn wrestling, one of the most remarkable wrestlers is Bruno Sammartino, who held the record of the WWWF (World) Heavyweight Championship for over 11 years across two reigns, the first of which is the longest single reign in the promotion's history.\n\nRugby union was imported from France in the 1910s and has been regularly played since the 1920s; the National team has progressed slowly but significantly during the decades and thanks to the good results achieved in the second half of the 1990s, when they managed to beat historical teams like Scotland, Ireland and eventually France, Italy gained the admission to the Five Nation Championship, later renamed Six Nations; Italy has taken part to the Rugby World Cup since its inauguration in 1987 and never missed an edition though to date has never gone past the group stage.\n\nDue to historic demographic shifts in the Italian peninsula throughout history, modern Italians have mixed origins of other European groups. This includes pre-Indo-European (such as the Etruscans and the Ligures) and pre-Roman peoples (such as the Celts), as well as Italic people (such as the Latino-Faliscans, the Osco-Umbrians, the Sicels, and the Veneti), as well significantly from non-Latin Greeks. Most Italians originate from these two primary elements, and all share a common Latin heritage and history.\n\nThe Italians are a Southwestern European population, with origins predominantly from Southern and Western Europe.\n\nThe earliest modern humans inhabiting Italy are believed to have been Paleolithic peoples that may have arrived in the Italian Peninsula as early as 35,000 to 40,000 years ago. Italy is believed to have been a major Ice-age refuge from which Paleolithic humans later colonized Europe. Migrations from what is now Italy during the Paleolithic and Mesolithic link modern Italians to the populations of much of Western Europe and particularly the British Isles and Atlantic Europe.\n\nThe Neolithic colonization of Europe from Western Asia and the Middle East beginning around 10,000 years ago reached Italy, as most of the rest of the continent although, according to the demic diffusion model, its impact was most in the southern and eastern regions of the European continent.\n\nStarting in the 4th millennium BC as well as in the Bronze Age, the first wave of migrations into Italy of speakers of Indo-European languages occurred, with the appearance of the Remedello, the Rinaldone and the Gaudo cultures. These were later (from the 18th century BC) followed by others that can be identified as Italo-Celts, with the appearance of the Proto-Celtic Canegrate culture and the Proto-Italic Terramare culture, both deriving from the Proto-Italo-Celtic Tumulus and Unetice cultures. \n\nLater, Celtic La Tène and Hallstatt cultures have been documented in Italy as far south as Umbria and Latium in Central Italy, also inhabited by the Rutuli and the Umbri, closely related to the Ligures. Italics occupied Southern and Central Italy: the \"West Italic\" group (including the Latins) were the first wave. They had cremation burials and possessed advanced metallurgical techniques. Major tribes included the Latins and Falisci in Lazio; the Oenotrians and Italii in Calabria; the Ausones, Aurunci and Opici in Campania; and perhaps Sicels in Sicily. They were followed, and largely displaced by East Italic (Osco-Umbrians) group.\n\nBy the beginning of the Iron Age the Etruscans emerged as the dominant civilization on the Italian peninsula. The Etruscans, whose primary home was in Etruria (modern Tuscany), inhabited a large part of central and northern Italy extending as far north as the Po Valley and as far south as Capua. Traditionally the Etruscans were said to have migrated to Italy from Anatolia, but modern archaeological and genetic research suggests descent from the indigenous Villanovan culture of Italy.\n\nThe Ligures are said to have been one of the oldest populations in Italy and Western Europe, possibly of Pre-Indo-European origin. According to Strabo they were not Celts, but later became influenced by the Celtic culture of their neighbours, and thus are sometimes referred to as Celticized Ligurians or Celto-Ligurians. Their language had affinities with both Italic (Latin and the Osco-Umbrian languages) and Celtic (Gaulish). They primarily inhabited the regions of Liguria, Piedmont, northern Tuscany, western Lombardy, western Emilia-Romagna and northern Sardinia, but are believed to have once occupied an even larger portion of ancient Italy as far south as Sicily. They were also settled in Corsica and in the Provence region along the southern coast of modern France.\n\nDuring the Iron Age, prior to Roman rule, the peoples living in the area of modern Italy and the islands were:\n\nItaly was, throughout the pre-Roman period, predominantly inhabited by Italic tribes who occupied the modern regions of Lazio, Umbria, Marche, Abruzzo, Molise, Campania, Basilicata, Calabria, Apulia and Sicily. Sicily, in addition to having an Italic population in the Sicels, also was inhabited by the Sicani and the Elymians, of uncertain origin. The Veneti, most often regarded as an Italic tribe, chiefly inhabited the Veneto, but extended as far east as Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Istria, and had colonies as far south as Lazio.\n\nBeginning in the 8th century BC, Greeks arrived in Italy and founded cities along the coast of southern Italy and eastern Sicily, which became known as Magna Graecia (\"Greater Greece\"). The Greeks were frequently at war with the native Italic tribes, but nonetheless managed to Hellenize and assimilate a good portion of the indigenous population located along eastern Sicily and the Southern coasts of the Italian mainland. According to Beloch the number of Greek citizens in south Italy at its greatest extent reached only 80,000–90,000, while the local people subjected by the Greeks were between 400,000–600,000. By the 4th and 3rd century BC, Greek power in Italy was challenged and began to decline, and many Greeks were pushed out of peninsular Italy by the native Oscan, Brutti and Lucani tribes.\n\nThe Gauls crossed the Alps and invaded northern Italy in the 4th and 3rd centuries BC, settling in the area that became known as Cisalpine Gaul (\"Gaul on this side of the Alps\"). Although named after the Gauls, the region was mostly inhabited by indigenous tribes, namely the Ligures, Etruscans, Veneti and Euganei. Estimates by Beloch and Brunt suggest that in the 3rd century BC the Gaulish settlers of north Italy numbered between 130,000–140,000 out of a total population of about 1.4 million. According to Pliny and Livy, after the invasion of the Gauls, some of the Etruscans living in the Po Valley sought refuge in the Alps and became known as the Raeti. The Raeti inhabited the region of Trentino-Alto Adige, as well as eastern Switzerland and Tyrol in western Austria. The Ladins of north-eastern Italy and the Romansh people of Switzerland are said to be descended from the Raeti.\n\nThe Romans—who according to legend originally consisted of three ancient tribes: Latins, Sabines and Etruscans—would go on to conquer the whole Italian peninsula. During the Roman period hundreds of cities and colonies were established throughout Italy, including Florence, Turin, Como, Pavia, Padua, Verona, Vicenza, Trieste and many others. Initially many of these cities were colonized by Latins, but later also included colonists belonging to the other Italic tribes who had become Latinized and joined to Rome. After the Roman conquest of Italy \"the whole of Italy had become Latinized\".\n\nAfter the Roman conquest of Cisalpine Gaul and the widespread confiscations of Gallic territory, much of the Gaulish population was killed or expelled. Many colonies were established by the Romans in the former Gallic territory of Cisalpine Gaul, which was then settled by Roman and Italic people. These colonies included Bologna, Modena, Reggio Emilia, Parma, Piacenza, Cremona and Forlì. According to Strabo:\n\"The greater part of the country used to be occupied by the Boii, Ligures, Senones, and Gaesatae; but since the Boii have been driven out, and since both the Gaesatae and the Senones have been annihilated, only the Ligurian tribes and the Roman colonies are left.\"\nThe Boii, the most powerful and numerous of the Gallic tribes, were expelled by the Romans after 191 BC and settled in Bohemia.\n\nPopulation movement and exchange among people from different regions was not uncommon during the Roman period. Latin colonies were founded at Ariminum in 268 and at Firmum in 264, while large numbers of Picentes, who previously inhabited the region, were moved to Paestum and settled along the river Silarus in Campania. Between 180–179 BC, 47,000 Ligures belonging to the Apuani tribe were removed from their home along the modern Ligurian-Tuscan border and deported to Samnium, an area corresponding to inland Campania, while Latin colonies were established in their place at Pisa, Lucca and Luni. Such population movements contributed to the rapid Romanization and Latinization of Italy.\n\nA large Germanic confederation of Scirii, Heruli, Turcilingi and Rugians, led by Odoacer, invaded and settled Italy in 476. They were preceded by 120,000 Alemanni, including 30,000 warriors with their families, who settled in the Po Valley in 371, and by 100,000 Burgundians who settled between North Western Italy and Southern France in 443. The Germanic tribe of the Ostrogoths led by Theoderic the Great conquered Italy and presented themselves as upholders of Latin culture, mixing Roman culture together with Gothic culture, in order to legitimize their rule amongst Roman subjects who had a long-held belief in the superiority of Roman culture over foreign \"barbarian\" Germanic culture. The number of Goths under Theodoric has been variously estimated between 200,000 and 250,000. Since Italy had a population of several million, the Goths did not constitute a significant addition to the local population. At the height of their power, there were about 200,000 Ostrogoths in a population of 6 or 7 million. Before them, Radagaisus led between 200,000 and 400,000 Goths in Italy in 406 perhaps too high as ancient sources routinely inflated the numbers of tribal invaders. After the Gothic War, which devastated the local population, the Ostrogoths were defeated. But in the sixth century, another Germanic tribe known as the Longobards invaded Italy, which in the meantime had been reconquered by the East Roman or Byzantine Empire. The Longobards were a small minority compared to the roughly four million people in Italy at the time. They were no more than 500,000 settlers – 10-15% of the total population. They were later followed by the Bavarians and the Franks, who conquered and ruled most of Italy. Numerous groups of Slavs and Bulgars, pushed by the Khazars, settled in the Italian peninsula between the 7th and the 8th centuries.\n\nFollowing Roman rule, Sicily and Sardinia were conquered by the Vandals, then by the Ostrogoths, and finally by the Byzantines. At one point, while Sardinia grew increasingly autonomous from Byzantine rule to the point of organizing itself into four sovereign Kingdoms or \"Judgedoms\" (Judicati) that would last until the Aragonese conquest in the 15th century. In 687, Sicily became the Byzantine Theme of Sicily, during the course of the Arab-Byzantine wars Sicily gradually came became the Emirate of Sicily (831–1072). Later a series of conflicts with the Normans; would bring about the establishment of the County of Sicily, and eventually the Kingdom of Sicily, the Lombards of Sicily (not to be confused with the \"Longobards\"), coming from the Northern Italy, settled in the central and eastern part of Sicily. After the marriage between the Norman Roger I of Sicily with Adelaide del Vasto, descendant of Aleramici family, many Northern Italian colonisers (known collectively as \"Lombards\") left their homeland, in the Aleramici's possessions in Piedmont and Liguria (then known as \"Lombardy\"), to settle on the island of Sicily.\n\nBefore them, other \"Lombards\" arrived in Sicily, with an expedition departed in 1038, led by the Byzantine commander George Maniakes, which for a very short time managed to snatch Messina and Syracuse from Arab rule. The Lombards who arrived with the Byzantines settled in Maniace, Randazzo and Troina, while a group of Genoese and other \"Lombards\" from Liguria settled in Caltagirone.\n\nDuring the subsequent Swabian rule under the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II, who spent most of his life as king of Sicily in his court in Palermo, Muslims was progressively eradicated until the massive deportation of the last Muslims of Sicily. As a result of Arab expulsion, many towns across Sicily were left depopulated. By the 12th century, Swabian kings granted immigrants from northern Italy (particularly Piedmont, Lombardy and Liguria), Latium and Tuscany in central Italy, and French regions of Normandy, Provence and Brittany (all collectively known as \"Lombards\".) settlement into Sicily, re-establishing the Latin element into the island, a legacy which can be seen in the many Gallo-Italic dialects and towns found in the interior and western parts of Sicily, brought by these settlers. It is believed that the Lombard immigrants in Sicily over a couple of centuries were a total of about 200,000.\n\nAn estimated 20,000 Swabians and 40,000 Normans settled in the southern half of Italy during this period. Additional Tuscan migrants settled in Sicily after the Florentine conquest of Pisa in 1406.\n\nSome of the expelled Muslims were deported to Lucera (Lugêrah, as it was known in Arabic). Their numbers eventually reached between 15,000 and 20,000, leading Lucera to be called \"Lucaera Saracenorum\" because it represented the last stronghold of Islamic presence in Italy. The colony thrived for 75 years until it was sacked in 1300 by Christian forces under the command of the Angevin Charles II of Naples. The city's Muslim inhabitants were exiled or sold into slavery, with many finding asylum in Albania across the Adriatic Sea. After the expulsions of Muslims in Lucera, Charles II replaced Lucera's Saracens with Christians, chiefly Burgundian and Provençal soldiers and farmers, following an initial settlement of 140 Provençal families in 1273. A remnant of the descendants of these Provençal colonists, still speaking a Franco-Provençal dialect, has survived until the present day in the villages of Faeto and Celle di San Vito.\nSubstantial migrations of Lombards to Naples, Rome and Palermo, continued in the 16th and 17th centuries, driven by the constant overcrowding in the north. Beside that, minor but significant settlements of Slavs (the so-called Schiavoni) and Arbereshe in Italy have been recorded.\n\nThe geographical and cultural proximity with Southern Italy pushed Albanians to cross the Strait of Otranto, especially after Skanderbeg's death and the conquest of the Balkans by the Ottomans. In defense of the Christian religion and in search of soldiers loyal to the Spanish crown, Alfonso V of Aragon, also king of Naples, invited Arbereshe soldiers to move to Italy with their families. In return the king guaranteed to Albanians lots of land and a favourable taxation.\n\nArbereshe and Schiavoni were used to repopulate abandoned villages or villages whose population had died in earthquakes, plagues and other catastrophes. Albanian soldiers were also used to quell rebellions in Calabria.\n\nMajor Slavic colonies were in Friuli, Veneto, Marche, Sicily and throughout the Kingdom of Naples (including Apulia, Molise, Abruzzo, Calabria, Terra di Lavoro and Campania).\n\nBetween the Late Middle Ages and early modern period, there were several waves of immigration of Albanians into Italy, in addition to another in the 20th century. The descendants of these Albanian emigrants, many still retaining the Albanian language, the Arbëresh dialect, have survived throughout Italy, numbering about 260,000 people, with roughly 80,000 to 100,000 speaking the Albanian language.\n\nIn this period, large groups of ethnic Bavarians and Swabians settled in the northern half of the country. Most of them were quickly assimilated in the native population. Nevertheless, in 1882, 100,000 German speakers were still living in the Po valley.\n\nItalian migration outside Italy took place, in different migrating cycles, for centuries. A diaspora in high numbers took place after its unification in 1861 and continued through 1914 with the emergence of the First World War. This rapid outflow and migration of Italian people across the globe can be attributed to factors such as the internal economic slump that emerged alongside its unification, family and the industrial boom that occurred in the world surrounding Italy.\n\nItaly after its unification did not seek nationalism but instead sought work. Sadly, a unified state did not automatically constitute a sound economy. The global economic expansion, ranging from Britain's Industrial Revolution in the late 18th and through mid 19th century, to the use of slave labor in the Americas did not hit Italy until much later (with the exception of the \"industrial triangle\" between Milan, Genoa and Turin) This lag resulted in a deficit of work available in Italy and the need to look for work elsewhere.The mass industrialization and urbanization globally resulted in higher labor mobility and the need for Italians to stay anchored to the land for economic support declined.\n\nMoreover, better opportunities for work were not the only incentive to move; family played a major role and the dispersion of Italians globally. Italians were more likely to migrate to countries where they had family established beforehand. These ties are shown to be stronger in many cases than the monetary incentive for migration, taking into account a familial base and possibly an Italian migrant community, greater connections to find opportunities for work, housing etc. Thus, thousands of Italian men and women left Italy and dispersed around the world and this trend only increased as World War I approached.\n\nNotably, it was not as if Italians had never migrated before, internal migration between North and Southern Italy before unification was common. Northern Italy caught on to the global industrialization sooner than Southern Italy, therefore it was considered more modern technologically, and tended to be inhabited by the bourgeoisie. Alternatively, rural and agro-intensive Southern Italy was seen as economically backward and was mainly populated by lower class peasantry. Given these disparities, prior to unification (and arguably after) the two sections of Italy, North and South were essentially seen by Italians and other nations as separate countries. So, migrating from one part of Italy to next could be seen as though they were indeed migrating to another country or even continent.\n\nFurthermore, large-scale migrations phenomena did not recede until the late 1920s, well into the Fascist regime, and one last wave can be observed after the end of the Second World War.\n\nOver 80 million people of full or part Italian descent live outside Europe, with over 60 million living in South America (mostly in Brazil, which has the largest number of Italian descendants outside Italy, and Argentina, where over 62.5% of the population have at least one Italian ancestor), 20 million living in North America (United States and Canada) and 1 million in Oceania (Australia and New Zealand). Others live in other parts of Europe (primarily The United Kingdom, Germany, France and Switzerland). Most Italian citizens living abroad live in other nations of the European Union.\n\nIn recent years, The United Arab Emirates has maintained a desirable destination for Italian immigrants, with the number of Italians leaving for the UAE having gone up 40% between 2005 and 2007. currently, over 10,000 Italians live in the United Arab Emirates.\n\nRegarding the diaspora, there are many individuals of Italian descent who are possibly eligible for Italian citizenship by method of jus sanguinis which is from the Latin meaning \"by blood.\" However, on a bases of just having Italian ancestry is not enough to qualify for Italian citizenship. To qualify, one must have at least one Italian born citizen ancestor who, after emigrating from Italy to another country, had passed citizenship onto their children before they naturalized as citizens of their newly adopted country. The Italian government does not have a rule regarding on how many generations born outside of Italy can claim Italian nationality.\n\nIn both the Slovenian and Croatian portions of Istria, in Dalmatia as well as in the city of Rijeka, Italian refers to autochthonous speakers of Italian and various Italo-Dalmatian languages, natives in the region since before the inception of the Venetian Republic. In the aftermath of the Istrian exodus following the Second World War, most Italian-speakers are today predominantly located in the west and south of Istria, and number about 30,000. The number of inhabitants with Italian ancestry is likely much greater but undeterminable. In the first Austrian census carried out in 1870 the number of Italian Dalmatians varied between 40,000 and 50,000 amongst the about 250,000 inhabitants of Dalmatia, or 20% of the total Dalmatian population.\n\nIn the French County of Nice, autochthonous speakers of regional languages of Italy (Ligurian and Piedmontese), are natives in the region since before annexation to France in 1860. The number of inhabitants with Italian ancestry is generally indeterminable, and the use of French language is now ubiquitous. In addition, Corsica was a part of the Republic of Genoa until 1768 and most of the islanders still have a certain level of proficiency of Corsican, a language of the Italo-Dalmatian family closely related to Tuscan. The Italian language ceased to have official status in Corsica in 1859 when it was supplanted by French and a process of de-Italianization was started by the French government in Corsica (and in 1861 the Nizzardo area).\n\nA similar process happened in Malta, where the Maltese Italians have practically disappeared in the last two centuries after Britain took control of the island during Napoleon times. However, the Italian language is today spoken and understood by 66% of the population.\n\nSwiss Italian is spoken as natively by about 350,000 people in the canton of Ticino and in the southern part of Graubünden (Canton Grigioni). Swiss-Italian also refers to the Italian speaking population in this region (southern Switzerland) close to the border with Italy. Swiss Italian dialects are spoken in emigrant communities around the world, including in Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31884227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31884227", "title": "Jacob Oulanyah", "text": "Jacob Oulanyah\n\nOulanyah Jacob L'Okori is a Ugandan agricultural economist, lawyer and politician, who has been the Deputy Speaker of the Ugandan parliament since 19 May 2011. Oulanyah is also the member of parliament representing the Omoro County constituency, Omoro District, Acholi sub-region, in the Uganda's Northern Region.\n\nHe was born in the then Gulu District, on 23 March 1965. He attended \"St. Joseph's College Layibi\", \"Dr. Obote College Boroboro\", and Kololo Senior Secondary School for his O-Level and A-Level education. In 1988, he joined Makerere University, the oldest university in the East African Community, where he studied agricultural economics. He graduated in 1991 with a Bachelor of Arts in that subject. That same year, he entered law school, also at Makerere University, graduating in 1994 with a Bachelor of Laws degree. He served as speaker of the university students' guild during his stay at Makerere. In 1995, he attended the Law Development Centre (LDC), where he obtained a postgraduate diploma in legal practice.\n\nFollowing his graduation from the LDC, Oulanyah worked as a lecturer at the centre. During the same timeframe, he began private law practice at the law firm of Oulanyah, Onoria & Company Advocates. In 2001, he entered politics by successfully contesting for the parliamentary seat of Omoro County in Gulu District under the no-party arrangement constitutionally referred to as the \"Movement Political System\". He was however a cardholder of the Uganda People's Congress (UPC). In 2005, he chaired the legal and parliamentary affairs committee that handled the constitutional amendment bill that proposed the lifting of the presidential term limits. He also participated in the peace talks between the government of Uganda and the Lord's Resistance Army rebels. In 2006, standing as a UPC candidate, he lost his re-election bid. In July 2006, he quit the UPC and joined the ruling National Resistance Movement (NRM). In 2008 he served as the chairman of the commission of inquiry into the controversial sub-lease of Kisekka Market, one of the municipal markets in the city of Kampala. In March 2011, Oulanyah was elected to represent Omoro County, Gulu District, in the Ninth Parliament, this time on the NRM ticket. He was elected as Deputy Speaker of Parliament on 19 May 2011.\n\nFollowing the February 2016 general election, Oulanyah was re-elected as Deputy Speaker of Parliament on 19 May 2016. In the vote, conducted by secret ballot, he received 300 votes, while Mohammed Nsereko received 115.\n\nBesides his duties as Deputy Speaker of Parliament, he sits on the following parliamentary committees:\n\n"}
{"id": "14954555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14954555", "title": "Jill Culiner", "text": "Jill Culiner\n\nJill Culiner (born September 13, 1945) is a Canadian folk artist, photographer and writer.\n\nShe has had one-person shows of her photography and \"boxes\" (an art form she pioneered that depicts various social issues in 3-D) in France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland, Canada and Hungary.\n\nHer exhibition (with texts) entitled \"La Mémoire Effacée\" (The Vanished Memory, Az Elenyészett Emlék) concerning the First and Second World Wars, and the vanished Jewish communities of Europe, toured France, Canada and Hungary from 1996 to 2004 and was showcased in Budapest at the city's Holocaust Museum.\n\nHer books include a photography book, \"Sans s'abolir pourtant\", (L'Echoppe, Paris, France 1992,) \"Felicity's Power\", a novel (Power of Love, Australia 2001) a non-fiction literary travel book, \"Finding Home: In the footsteps of the Jewish Fusgeyers\" (Sumach Press, 2004) -- which won the Joseph and Faye Tanenbaum Prize in Canadian Jewish History (Canadian Jewish Book Awards 2005), and was shortlisted for \"ForeWord Magazine Prize\"'s 2004 Book of the Year Awards Essay and History category, 2004.\n\nHer second novel \" Slanderous Tongue\" (Sumach Press, 2007) is a social critical murder-mystery set in a village in France.\n\nCuliner speaks to groups across Canada, the United States, France and Israel about various aspects of European Jewish history.\n\nJill Culiner was born in New York City in 1945, and as an infant, she moved with her parents moved to Toronto. She is a Canadian citizen. She lives in France.\n"}
{"id": "22802425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22802425", "title": "John T. Hayward", "text": "John T. Hayward\n\nJohn Tucker \"Chick\" Hayward (15 November 1908 – 23 May 1999) was a World War II naval aviator. He helped develop one of the two atomic bombs that was dropped on Japan in the closing days of the war. Later, he was a pioneer in the development of nuclear propulsion, nuclear weapons, guidance systems for ground- and air-launched rockets, and underwater anti-submarine weapons. A former batboy for the New York Yankees, Hayward dropped out of high school and lied about his age to enlist in the United States Navy at age 16. He was subsequently admitted to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, from which he graduated 51st in his class of 1930. He volunteered for naval aviation.\n\nDuring World War II, he served at the Naval Aircraft Factory in Philadelphia, where he was involved in an effort to improve aircraft instrumentation, notably the compass and altimeter. He attended the University of Pennsylvania's Moore School of Electrical Engineering, and studied nuclear physics. In June 1942, he assumed command of a new patrol bomber squadron, VB-106, equipped with PB4Y-1 Liberators, which he led in a daring raid on Wake Island, in the Solomon Islands campaign, and in the Southwest Pacific Area. Returning to the United States in 1944, he was posted to the Naval Ordnance Test Station at Inyokern, California, where he joined the Manhattan Project, participating in Project Camel, the development of the non-nuclear components of the Fat Man bomb, and in its drop testing.\n\nAfter the war ended, he travelled to Hiroshima and Nagasaki as part of the team investigating the bomb damage, and during Operation Crossroads, he led the effort to photograph the nuclear explosion at the Bikini Atoll. In 1949, he assumed command of VC-5, the first naval nuclear bomber squadron. In March 1949, he took off from the carrier in the Atlantic in a Lockheed P2V Neptune bomber carrying a dummy Little Boy pumpkin bomb, flew across the United States to make a simulated attack on a test site in California., and flew back to Patuxent River, where he landed after a total of 23 hours flying. In August 1950, he was at the controls of the first carrier landing and takeoff of an AJ-1 Savage heavy attack bomber.\n\nFrom June 1951 to May 1953, Hayward was head of the Military Applications Division of the Atomic Energy Commission, where he conducted atomic weapons laboratory work at Los Alamos National Laboratory. In June 1953, he assumed command of the escort carrier , and was involved in the rescue of a baby who was found abandoned in the trash at a U.S. Army depot. In June 1954, he became the first naval aviator to command the Naval Ordnance Laboratory, where he was involved with the development of the Mark 52 naval mine and the Mark 90 nuclear bomb, a nuclear depth charge. He was Assistant Chief of Naval Operations for Research and Development, and then Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Development. In 1962 he assumed command of a carrier task force which included the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier . He commanded the Antisubmarine Warfare Force, Pacific Fleet, from 1963 to 1966, and then was president of the Naval War College from 1966 until 1968.\n\nHayward was born in New York City on November 15, 1908 one of eight children of Charles Brian and Rosa Hayward, née Valdetaro. As a youngster, he was a batboy for the New York Yankees. In May 1925, he dropped out of high school at Loyola School and enlisted in the United States Navy by lying about his age, which at the time he believed to be only 15, and forging his father's signature on the papers. He soon acquired the nickname \"Chick\" from a bosun who asked \"And how in did a little chick like you get in here amongst all these grown men?\" The nickname would remain with him for the rest of his naval career.\n\nHayward did his initial naval training at the Naval Station Newport at Newport, Rhode Island. He was encouraged by the Chaplain, Father John J. Brady, to try for admission to United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Brady arranged for Hayward to be sent to the Naval Academy Preparatory School in Norfolk, Virginia, to study for the entrance exams. During World War I, some one-hundred presidential appointments to Annapolis had been set aside for enlisted sailors, but few had applied, and fewer still had passed the entrance exams. Of the 119 sailors who sat the exams in 1926, only 19 passed, one of whom was Hayward. He entered Annapolis in August 1926, and was commissioned as an ensign on graduation in June 1930, ranking 51st in his class of 406.\n\nAfter graduation, Hayward volunteered for naval aviation, and learned to fly in a Consolidated NY seaplane at Naval Air Station Hampton Roads. A tour of sea duty on the cruiser followed, after which he was posted to the Naval Air Station Pensacola to complete his flight training. He received his aviator's wings in July 1932. While there he met a local woman, Leila Marion (Lili) Hyer, and the two were married at St John's Church in Warrington, Florida on 15 October 1932. Their marriage would produce five children.\n\nHayward was posted to a scout bombing squadron, VS-1B, flying Vought SBU Corsairs, on the aircraft carrier on the West Coast, and was soon promoted to the rank of lieutenant (junior grade), but owing to government austerity measures, was not paid as such. In 1935, the squadron was transferred to the . Coming in for a landing, a fuel line on his aircraft broke, spraying him with fuel and damaging his left eye. After he recovered, and his flight status was restored, he was sent to VP-2, which was stationed in the Panama Canal Zone, flying Martin PM patrol aircraft. Following a two-year tour there, he was assigned to the SON Seagull detachment aboard the newly commissioned cruiser , where he was promoted to lieutenant on 30 June 1937. He then repeated the procedure of commissioning the aircraft detachment of a new cruiser on another ship of the same class, the in 1938.\n\nHayward was posted to the Naval Aircraft Factory in Philadelphia in June 1940, where he continued graduate studies at Temple University that he had begun in 1937, and then attended the University of Pennsylvania's Moore School of Electrical Engineering, where he studied nuclear physics. At the Naval Aircraft Factory, he was involved in an effort to improve aircraft instrumentation, notably the compass and altimeter. He was promoted to lieutenant commander in January 1942.\n\nIn June 1942, Hayward assumed command of a new patrol bomber squadron, VB-106, equipped with PB4Y-1 Liberators. He was promoted to commander in August 1942. VB-106 trained in Hawaii, and flew its first combat mission against Wake Island in October 1943. For this mission, he was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. His citation read:\n\nHayward was awarded a second Distinguished Flying Cross on the recommendation of Captain Arleigh Burke for leading his squadron in the South Pacific Area. His citation read:\n\nIn March 1944, VB-106 was transferred to Nadzab in the Southwest Pacific Area, where it came under the command of the Fifth Air Force. It thus served in three different theaters in the Pacific. Hayward was awarded a third Distinguished Flying Cross: He was also awarded the Legion of Merit with the valor device:\n\nSomewhat depleted in both aircraft and aircrews, VB-106 handed over its three PB4Ys with the least hours on the clock to its relief, VB-115, on 27 May 1944, and returned to the United States.\n\nHayward's next posting was to the Naval Ordnance Test Station at Inyokern, California. Initially he was involved with test firing rockets from various aircraft, including the Grumman F6F Hellcat and the twin engine Grumman F7F Tigercat. Once his security clearance was complete, he was assigned to the Manhattan Project. He participated in Project Camel, the development of the non-nuclear components of the Fat Man bomb, and in its drop testing. This involved flying the four engine Boeing B-29 Superfortress. After the war ended, he travelled to Hiroshima and Nagasaki as part of the Manhattan Project team investigating the bomb damage. He was promoted to captain on 10 December 1945. During Operation Crossroads, he led the effort to photograph the nuclear explosion at the Bikini Atoll.\n\nAfter a series of clashes with his superior at Inyokern, Captain James B. Sykes, Hayward left to become the Director for Plans and Operations for Armed Forces Special Weapons Project, Sandia National Laboratories on 1 August 1947. On 1 January 1948, he was reduced in rank to commander again. The Air Force offered a commission as a brigadier general, and Convair offered a job working on the SM-65 Atlas missile, but Hayward elected to stay in the navy. He participated in the Operation Sandstone nuclear tests in the Pacific in April 1948.\nAfter World War II, the US Navy sought to acquire a nuclear strike capability, and the Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Air, Rear Admiral Arthur W. Radford wanted them to operate from aircraft carriers. There were practical problems with this. Nuclear weapons at that time were bulky and required a large aircraft to carry them. After Operation Crossroads, Radford asked Hayward if the Navy had such an aircraft, and Hayward suggested modifying the Lockheed P2V Neptune for carrier operations using jet-assisted takeoff (JATO) rocket boosters. It was an interim solution, as it a could not carry a Fat Man, but only the smaller Little Boy bomb; it could only be operated by the large \"Midway\" class aircraft carriers, which still had to be modified for the task; and initially had no tailhook, so it was unable to land on a carrier, and a mission would have to end with it either landing at a land base or ditching at sea.\n\nOn 28 April 1948, two P2Vs were launched from a carrier, the , for the first time. The intention was that each of the three \"Midway\"-class carriers would have a nuclear attack squadron. The first of these, Composite (Heavy Attack) Squadron 5 (VC-5) was formed at Moffett Field, California, on 9 September 1948, with Commander Frederick L. \"Dick\" Ashworth, who had been weaponeer on the Nagasaki raid, as its acting commander. However, Rear Admiral Deak Parsons felt that Ashworth did not have sufficient flight time for the role, so it was decided that Hayward would command VC-5. He assumed command on 3 January 1949, with Ashworth as his executive officer. Hayward intended that Ashworth would take command of the next squadron, VC-6, when it was formed.\nHayward was promoted to captain again on 19 February 1949. On 7 March, he took off \"Coral Sea\" in the Atlantic in a P2V carrying a dummy Little Boy pumpkin bomb, and flew across the United States to make a simulated attack on the Salton Sea test site near El Centro, California. He then flew to Patuxent River, where he landed after a total of 23 hours flying. Hayward had tailhooks fitted to a pair of P2Vs, and made practice landings on a carrier deck painted on the ground at NAS Patuxent River, Maryland, He made some touch and go passes at the , but a carrier landing was considered too dangerous for regular crews to attempt.\n\nThe P2Vs would be first augmented, and then replaced, by the more capable North American AJ Savage as they became available. These could take off and land on a carrier, carrying a Fat Man. On 21 August 1950, Hayward was at the controls of the first carrier landing and takeoff of an AJ-1 Savage heavy attack bomber, on the \"Coral Sea\" with the Commander of Naval Air Forces Atlantic Fleet (COMAIRLANT), Vice Admiral Felix Stump, in the back seat. However, by mid-December VC-5 still only had six AJ-1s.\n\nFrom June 1951 to May 1953, Hayward was head of the Military Applications Division of the Atomic Energy Commission, where he conducted atomic weapons laboratory work at Los Alamos National Laboratory. He also worked on the foundation of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory program in 1952 in close collaboration with Edward Teller. The culmination of this was working on the Ivy Mike nuclear test.\n\nIn June 1953, Hayward took command of the escort carrier . He confessed to the crew that he did not know what he was doing, and urged any crewman who felt he was doing something wrong to tell him so at once. At the end of the Korean War, the carrier was deployed at Inchon, where a baby was found abandoned in the trash at a U.S. Army depot. The baby was brought to an orphanage, and Hayward sent \"Point Cruz\"'s chaplain in response to a request for assistance. The nun running the orphanage felt the blue-eyed baby would not be safe if he remained in Korea. Hayward is said to have told the chaplain: \"You are not to return to this vessel until you have procured that baby.\"\n\nHayward is credited with putting his naval career \"on the line\" by bringing the baby on the ship, which was against regulations, and he subsequently received orders to get the baby off the ship. However, having a baby on board boosted sailors' morale, and Hayward later said that a leader must \"know when to intelligently disregard regulations.\" A visa was obtained by intervention of Richard Nixon's staffers, and a passport was secured by winning a poker game against the South Korean who issued passports. The baby, adopted by Navy surgeon Hugh Keenan, who was also in port at Inchon, was later named Daniel, and was transferred to a civilian ship in Japan. Daniel Keenan was raised in Seattle and began attending reunions of the crew of the \"Point Cruz\" in 1993. The story of Daniel Keenan was made into a television movie, \"A Thousand Men and a Baby\", which aired on CBS in 1997.\n\nHayward assumed command of the Naval Ordnance Laboratory at White Oak, Maryland in June 1954. He was the first naval aviator to do so, all the previous commanders having been naval ordnance officers. Under his guidance, the Naval Ordnance Laboratory developed the Mark 52 naval mine, an air-delivered weapon with acoustic, magnetic and pressure sensors. Hayward encountered some resistance with this project, as mine warfare was a neglected field in the Navy. The Naval Ordnance Laboratory also developed the Mark 90 nuclear bomb, a nuclear depth charge, which was tested during Operation Wigwam in May 1955.\n\nFrom a naval career point of view, Hayward's most notable drawback was his lack of time in command of a ship at sea. Admiral Arleigh Burke, now Chief of naval Operations, arranged for Hayward to be given command of the aircraft carrier \"Franklin D. Roosevelt\" in February 1956. This would normally be the climax of naval aviator's career, but that year he was selected for promotion to rear admiral. His record of 13,200 flight hours was the highest ever achieved by a flag officer. On 7 January 1957, he was assigned to the office of the Assistant Chief of Naval Operations for Plans and Operations. In October, he became Assistant Chief of Naval Operations for Research and Development. The very public failure of Project Vanguard resulted in Hayward being called to appear before a Congressional Committee, where he was grilled by its chairman, Senator Lyndon B. Johnson. The post was upgraded to Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Development in 1959, and he was promoted to vice admiral. He pushed the development of a number of new weapons systems, including the Lockheed P-3 Orion and the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier . Between 1959 and 1961, Defense expenditure on research and development grew from $525 million (roughly equivalent to $ in 20) to $4 billion (roughly equivalent to $ in 20).\nIn 1962, President John F. Kennedy offered Hayward four stars and the job of Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Hayward turned it down, accepting a demotion to rear admiral on 9 March 1962 to take command of Carrier Division 2, which included the nuclear-powered \"Enterprise\" , and . In October 1962, his ships participated in the Cuban Missile Crisis. In June 1963, he was restored to the rank of vice admiral, which was backdated to 25 April 1959, the day he had first been promoted. He commanded the Antisubmarine Warfare Force, Pacific Fleet, from 13 June 1963 to 12 January 1966, for which he was awarded the Navy Distinguished Service Medal for his \"leadership, judgment and foresight in research and development associated with antisubmarine warfare and the training of Antisubmarine Warfare Groups during his tenure of command.\n\nHayward was president of the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island from 1966 until 1968. He strove to transform the Naval War College into the Navy's premier postgraduate school, one from which graduation would fit officers for, and mark them out as future flag officers. Heading a captain's selection board in May 1967, he disapproved of two officers with spotless records. \"You mean they never argued, never had a difference of opinion?\" he remarked. \"What kind of man is that?\"\n\nHayward was awarded a second Navy Distinguished Service Medal for his service as president of Naval War College. He retired in 1968, but returned to serve to duty as a rear admiral from November 1970 to December 1971 as Commander, 14th Naval District, Commander Fleet Air Hawaii and Commander, Naval Base Pearl Harbor. His responsibilities included \"the planning, training and execution of highly successful recoveries of Apollo spacecraft in the Mid-Pacific\", for which he was awarded a third Legion of Merit.\n\nAfter retiring from the Navy, Hayward worked for General Dynamics as a vice president for international programs until 1973, and then as a consultant until 1979. He then worked with the Draper Laboratory and the Hertz Foundation. He became an American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Fellow in 1998, and was inducted into the Naval Aviation Hall of Honor in 2004.\n\nHayward was part of a team of scientists sent to investigate the origins of the Shroud of Turin in Vatican City. Speaking of the venture at the Naval War College in 1982, he said that the evidence collected convinced him that the shroud was in fact used to bury Christ. However, he spoke only for himself and not the entire team. According to the majority of the team, the image on the shroud was formed by \"a combination of heat and light\" and was not painted. Hayward decided that further research into the age of the shroud via Carbon-14 dating was needed but Church authorities would not permit this to happen at the time. \n\nHayward died of cancer on 23 May 1999 in Atlantic Beach, Florida, and was buried in Arlington National Cemetery, along with his wife Leila, who had died the year before. He was survived by his son and four daughters. His papers are in the Naval History & Heritage Command at the Washington Navy Yard.\n\n"}
{"id": "30940437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30940437", "title": "Jonathan Perry (politician)", "text": "Jonathan Perry (politician)\n\nJonathan Wayne Perry, known as JP Perry (born January 27, 1973), is the District 4F judge on the Louisiana Court of Appeal for the Third Circuit. Perry ran unopposed for the judgeship in the November 6, 2018 primary election, held in conjunction with general elections for Congress in the forty-nine other states, Perry assumes the post on January 1, 2019.\n\nEarlier from 2011 to 2018, he was a Republican member of the Louisiana State Senate for District 26 (Vermilion and portions of Acadia, Lafayette, and St. Landry parishes in south Louisiana. Previously from 2008 to 2011, he was the state representative for District 47 (Vermilion and Cameron parishes), Perry won a special election for the state Senate held on February 19, 2011.\n\nThe Senate vacancy occurred with the resignation of the Democrat Nick Gautreaux, who accepted an appointment from Republican then Governor Bobby Jindal to head the Louisiana Office of Motor Vehicles in Baton Rouge.\n\nPerry's victory was particularly significant because it realigned the Senate by giving Republicans their first majority since Reconstruction, with then twenty of the thirty-nine members.\n\nPerry is also known as a comedian and has released DVDs of his stand-up Cajun routines. Perry is among the most sought after Cajun comedians in the world and is a past \"king\" of the \"International Cajun Joke Telling Contest.\"\n\nPerry graduated in 1991 from Kaplan High School in his native Kaplan in Vermilion Parish, Louisiana, where he still resides. In 1995, he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree in sociology and criminal justice from the University of Louisiana at Monroe in Monroe in Ouachita Parish. Thereafter, he procured a Juris Doctor from the historically black Southern University Law Center in Baton Rouge though Perry is white.\n\nHe wed his high school sweetheart, the former Christine LeBeouf, and the couple has four children, Molli, Meredith, Major, and Marlee. Perry is a former sergeant on the Kaplan city police force who formerly was a member of the Kaplan City Council. While studying law, he served on the Kaplan City Council, the youngest person in that position in the history of his city. He is also a former assistant district attorney for the 15th Judicial District, which covers Acadia, Lafayette, and Vermilion parishes.\n\nRepresentative Perry served on the House committees of (1) Administration of Criminal Justice, (2) Agriculture, Forestry, Aquaculture and Rural Development, and (3) Ways and Means. He was the chairman of the House Acadiana delegation and a member of the Louisiana Rural Caucus. Perry serves on the Louisiana Commission on Family and Marriage, the Louisiana Energy Council, and the Governor's Task Force on D.W.I. and Vehicular Homicide.\n\nPerry holds a 100 percent rating from the Louisiana Right to Life Committee. Since 2008, he has been named \"Outstanding Family Advocate\" by the conservative Louisiana Family Forum. In 2009, he received that organization's \"Life and Liberty Award\". He also carries a 100 percent rating from the trade association, the Louisiana Association of Business and Industry.\n\nIn April 2018, Perry was one of ten senators who voted against criminalizing sexual abuse of animals.\n\nPerry defeated the Democrat Nathan Charles Granger (born January 23, 1968), a member of the Vermilion Parish Police Jury from Erath, who owns two oilfield service companies. Perry received 10,179 votes (52 percent) to Granger's 9,491 (48 percent). Perry's 53-47 percent margin in his own Vermilion Parish, where the majority of the ballots were cast in the race, proved decisive to his election. The voter turnout was nearly 36 percent.\n\nThe Louisiana blog \"The Dead Pelican\" reported near the end of the Senate campaign that Granger's campaign manager was from Washington State, not Louisiana, and in 2008 had organized supporters of U.S. Senator Barack Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee from Illinois. Granger reported having raised $310,000 for the campaign and ran advertising accusing Perry of having voted to gut higher education and failure to have prosecuted a seven-time DWI offender while Perry was an assistant district attorney. In an interview on \"The Moon Griffon Show\" talk radio program based from Monroe on February 17, 2011, Granger called himself a conservative and denied that he had the support of Obama in the special election. Records also reveal that Granger contributed to two Republican candidates from his area, former State Senator Craig Romero and former U.S. Representative Jeff Landry, the current state attorney general, both of New Iberia.\n\nStand-up comic Perry is not the only Louisiana state senator known for his humor and theatrics. Fred H. Mills, Jr., of St. Martin Parish, who preceded Perry in the Senate by only a month, has since the middle 1990s been performing in television commercials for his pharmacy in Parks in the role of \"Taunte Pills,\" a comic Cajun character.\n"}
{"id": "637149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=637149", "title": "Les Moonves", "text": "Les Moonves\n\nLeslie Roy Moonves (; born October 6, 1949) is an American media executive who served as Chairman and CEO of CBS Corporation until he resigned on September 9, 2018 in light of allegations that he sexually abused many women. He is married to Julie Chen.\n\nHe had held a series of executive positions at CBS from July 1995 to September 2018. He has been on the Board of Directors at ZeniMax Media since 1999. Later, he was co-President and co-Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the original Viacom, Inc., the legal predecessor to CBS Corporation, from 2004 until the company split in December 2005. He became Chairman of CBS in February 2016. On September 9, 2018, Les Moonves stepped down as Chairman of CBS after multiple sexual harassment claims. \n\nAccording to various media reports, Moonves has amassed a net worth of over US$800 million as a result of extremely generous compensation packages from CBS, with Moonves earning US$68.4 million in 2017, combined with stock options of the media company, worth over US$100 million. It was reported that Moonves was entitled to a severance package of over US$240 million from CBS; however, this has been suspended pending the outcome of several sexual abuse allegations against him.\n\nMoonves was born to a Jewish family in New York City, the son of Josephine (Schleifer) and Herman Moonves, and grew up in Valley Stream, New York. His mother was a nurse. He has one sister, Melissa Moonves Colon, and two brothers, including entertainment attorney Jonathan Moonves. He attended Valley Stream Central High School and went to Bucknell University, graduating in 1971. In his sophomore year he decided that his science courses were unfulfilling and switched his major from pre-medical to Spanish (a subject he found vastly more enjoyable) and acted in a few plays; following graduation in 1971 he moved to Manhattan to pursue an acting career. He landed a few parts, playing tough guys on \"Cannon\" and \"The Six Million Dollar Man\", which he described as \"forgettable\" TV roles, before deciding on the career change. He also worked as one of casting director Caro Jones' first office assistants early in her career.\nMoonves was in charge of first-run syndication and pay/cable programming at 20th Century Fox Television. Also at 20th Century Fox Television, he was vice president of movies and mini-series. Other positions included vice president of development at Saul Ilson Productions (in association with Columbia Pictures Television) and development executive for Catalina Productions.\n\nMoonves joined Lorimar Television in 1985 as executive in charge of its movies and mini-series, and in 1988, became head of creative affairs. From 1990 to 1993, he was president at Lorimar. In July 1993, he became president/CEO of Warner Bros. Television, when Warner Bros. and Lorimar Television combined operations. In this phase of his career, he green-lighted the shows \"Friends\" and \"ER\", among many others.\n\nHe joined CBS in July 1995 as President of CBS Entertainment. From April 1998 until 2003, he was president and chief executive officer at CBS Television, then was promoted to chairman and CEO of CBS in 2003. In 2003, CBS had six of the ten most-watched primetime shows in the final quarter of 2005: \"\", \"Without a Trace\", \"\", \"\", \"NCIS\", and \"Cold Case\".\n\nIn February 2005, Moonves was identified as the executive directly responsible for ordering the cancellation of UPN's \"\" and the ending of the 18-year revival of the \"Star Trek\" television franchise. In January 2006, Moonves helped make the deal that brought together the CBS-owned United Paramount Network (UPN) with The WB Television Network to form The CW Television Network that fall.\n\nMoonves was the second-most highly-paid director for 2012 and 2013: he received $58.8 million and $65.4 million. He is considered the second-highest paid CEO, having been paid $68.4 million in 2017.\n\nIn 2013, Moonves was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame. He became chairman of CBS in February 2016.\n\nOf the tone of the 2016 Republican presidential campaign and the advertising dollars it delivered, Moonves said, \"It may not be good for America, but it's damn good for CBS.\" He added, \"Donald's place in this election is a good thing.\"\n\nIn September 2018, following allegations of sexual assault against him, it was reported that CBS was negotiating a $100 million exit package for Moonves and that CBS Chief Operating Officer Joe Ianniello would serve as his interim replacement. On September 9, 2018, CBS Corporation announced he had resigned and Joe Iannello would become interim CEO. Moonves and CBS will donate $20 million to the #MeToo movement that will be deducted from any severance benefits Moonves may be owed, the company said. The donation to charities promoting women’s equality in the workplace will come upon the conclusion of an independent investigation into the allegations, according to the statement.\n\nIn February 2006, Moonves led CBS to file a $500 million lawsuit against Howard Stern for allegedly breaching his contract by failing to disclose the details of his deal with Sirius Satellite Radio while still employed by Infinity Broadcasting. Stern vowed to fight the suit, and said on his radio program that Moonves and CBS were trying to \"bully\" him and his agent, Don Buchwald. Stern later appeared on CBS' own \"Late Show with David Letterman\", wearing a shirt mocking Moonves and his wife. In June 2006, Stern announced that the lawsuit had been settled. As part of the settlement, Sirius acquired the exclusive rights to all of the WXRK tapes (over two decades' worth of shows) for $2 million.\n\nMoonves has been on the board of ZeniMax Media since its foundation in 1999, alongside his friend and ZeniMax president Ernest Del. Moonves' personal investment in the company has been noted, as well as his appearances at several launch parties, including for Bethesda Softworks' \"Fallout 3\", \"\", and \"Rage\".\n\nMoonves voiced support for the #MeToo movement against sexual harassment in the workplace, even describing it as a \"watershed moment\" during a November 2017 press conference, and was a founding member of the \"Commission on Sexual Harassment and Advancing Equality in the Workplace\", formed in late 2017 to \"tackle the broad culture of abuse and power disparity\". In January 2018, CBS Cares released public service announcements concerning how to combat sexual harassment.\n\nIn July 2018, \"The New Yorker\" published an article by Ronan Farrow saying that six women accuse Moonves of harassment and intimidation, and dozens have described abuse at CBS. Moonves was subsequently placed under investigation by the CBS board.\n\nIn August 2018, Bucknell University removed references to Moonves on its website, and University of Southern California suspended Moonves' name from its Media Center.\n\nIn September 2018, \"The New Yorker\" reported that six more women (in addition to the six original women reported in July) had raised accusations against Moonves, going back to the 1980s. Shortly after resigning as CEO of CBS, Moonves released a statement denying all of the sexual misconduct allegations.\n\nOn November 28, 2018, \"The New York Times\" published an article in which actress Bobbie Phillips alleges that Moonves sexually assaulted her during the mid-1990s.\n\nOn April 7, 2003, Moonves portrayed himself in an episode of \"The Practice\". From early 2004 until its end in May 2015, Moonves made regular appearances on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\". One of these came when Letterman declared outrage that CBS featured his late-night competitor Jay Leno in an ad for CBS's telecast of the People's Choice Awards. Letterman jokingly warned the \"CBS stooge in the control room\" to call his buddies \"before things turn ugly\"; Moonves obliged. Later appearances took the same format, with Letterman discussing current events and the CBS network with the company's CEO.\n\nOn the March 23, 2015 premiere episode of \"The Late Late Show with James Corden\", Moonves portrayed himself as the head of CBS who sends out a golden ticket granting whoever finds it a chance to host \"The Late Late Show\", in an homage to \"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory\". Moonves also appeared on the September 8, 2015 premiere of \"The Late Show with Stephen Colbert\", operating a large switch he could use to switch back to reruns of \"The Mentalist\" if he was unhappy with the new program.\n\nMoonves is a great-nephew of Paula Ben-Gurion, born Paula Munweis, wife of David Ben-Gurion, the first Prime Minister of Israel. He practices Transcendental Meditation, and has said, \"It puts me in a calm state, which I'm not always in.\"\n\nIn 1978, Moonves married Nancy Wiesenfeld, with whom he has three children including \"W\" magazine style director Sara Moonves. In April 2003, Nancy Moonves filed for divorce in Los Angeles Superior Court, citing irreconcilable differences. Nancy and Les Moonves were already living apart.\n\nIn 2004, although his divorce from Nancy was not yet finalized, Moonves began dating Julie Chen, CBS' \"The Early Show\" reporter and host of the reality series \"Big Brother\". On December 10, 2004, Moonves got a court to grant an early divorce, on a motion citing a \"desire to return to the status of being single\". Thirteen days later in Mexico, he married Chen. In 2009, Chen gave birth to a son.\n\nMoonves resides in Beverly Hills, California in a house he bought from Andy Heyward. He also owns residences in Malibu and New York City.\n\nIn 2015, Moonves and Chen made a major donation to University of Southern California, resulting in a media center being named the \"Julie Chen/Leslie Moonves and CBS Media Center.\" Moonves was already a USC School of Cinematic Arts' board of councilors member. Previously Moonves was a University of Southern California's Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism board member.\n\nIn August 2018, Moonves was \"suspended\" from the USC School of Cinematic Arts' board of councilors in the wake of sex abuse allegations.\n\nIn September 2018, at the same time Moonves resigned, CBS announced that Moonves and the network would be donating $20 million to #MeToo-related organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32481787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32481787", "title": "List of A Fazenda contestants", "text": "List of A Fazenda contestants\n\nThis is a list of participants in A Fazenda (English: \"The Farm\"), a Brazilian television show in which celebrity contestants compete against each other to be the last farm resident and win the grand prize. The series first aired in May 2009, and 6 seasons have been filmed as of December 2017. Season 10 premieres September 2018.\n\nA total of 149 participants have competed, and 9 of them have competed in multiple seasons; actress Franciely Freduzeski (season 1), assistant referee Ana Paula Oliveira (season 2) and TV host Monique Evans (season 3), who were the first celebrities to be evicted in their respectives seasons, returned in Season 4 for another chance to win the grand prize. Style Consultant Fábio Arruda, dancer Adriana Bombom (season 2), footballer Dinei (season 4), TV Host Nicole Bahls (season 5), singer Rita Cadillac (season 6) and model Ana Paula Minerato (season 8) returned in Season 9 for a new chance, alongside other ten contestants of Brazilian reality shows.\n\nThe youngest contestant was TV host Yudi Tamashiro from season 6, who entered the farm at age 20. The oldest contestant was singer Nahim, from season 9, who entered the farm at age 65.\n\nSome contestants have kinship with other ones: Andressa Oliveira (season 2) is ex-girlfriend of Théo Becker (season 1). Gui Pádua (season 4) is ex-boyfriend of Janaina Jacobina (season 3). From Season 6, Bárbara Evans is daughter of Monique Evans (seasons 3 and 4), Mateus Verdelho is ex-husband of Dani Bolina (season 4) and Márcio Duarte is Vavá's (season 5) twin brother. Mara Maravilha (season 8) is ex-girlfriend of Roy Rosselló (season 7), Aritana Maroni (season 9) is daughter of Oscar Maroni (season 7) and Conrado (season 9) is husband of Andréia Sorvetão (season 7).\n\nIn nine seasons, only two contestants were born outside of Brazil: From season 4, the boxer Duda Yankovich was born in Jagodina, Yugoslavia (now Serbia), and the musician and former Menudo Roy Rosselló, from season 7, was born in Río Piedras, in Puerto Rico.\n\nThrough telephone, Internet, and SMS text voting, viewers have chosen as winners actor Dado Dolabella, actress Karina Bacchi, model Daniel Bueno, personal trainer Joana Machado, actress Viviane Araújo, model Bárbara Evans, singer DH Silveira, actor Douglas Sampaio and actress Flávia Viana.\n\nBiographical information according to Record official series site, plus footnoted additions.<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "12507642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12507642", "title": "List of Berber people", "text": "List of Berber people\n\nThis is a list of famous Berber people.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Netherlands\n\nKhadija Azalam, (1975, Amsterdam)\n\nSweden\n\n\nMorocco\n\n\nAlgeria\n\nMali\n\n\n\n\n\nNearly all North Africans – and many Andalusi Moors – fall and fell into this category, but do not in general identify themselves as Berber. For lists of them, look under the respective countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "32076284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32076284", "title": "List of sound designers", "text": "List of sound designers\n\nThis list of sound designers consists of notable sound designers, for each of whom there is a Wikipedia article.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25454218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25454218", "title": "Lizzy Clark", "text": "Lizzy Clark\n\nLizzy Clark (born 3 April 1994 in Shrewsbury, England, United Kingdom) is an English actress. Clark is best known for playing the role of Poppy in the 2008 television film \"Dustbin Baby\". Both Clark and Poppy have Asperger syndrome.\n\nClark's first experience of professional acting came in 2008 when she starred alongside Dakota Blue Richards in the BBC film \"Dustbin Baby\", an adaptation of the Jacqueline Wilson novel of the same name. She played the part of Poppy, a teenager with Asperger syndrome. The BBC said that the fact Clark also had the condition offered her a \"unique take\" on the role. Clark was the first actress with Asperger syndrome to portray a fictional character with the condition. Clark auditioned for the role when her mother, Nicky, saw the position advertised on a website about autism. She said that she thinks \"it's incredibly positive that the BBC chose to find an actress who has the same condition as the character.\"\n\nClark said that being on set was the best experience of her life, and though \"at first it was a bit intimidating\", she said that eventually you \"stop noticing the cameras\". She said that her \"Asperger's made some things on the film set difficult at first, like dealing with the sudden noise of the storyboard, but I was soon so focused on acting that I didn't notice anything else.\"\n\nPrompted by Clark's role in \"Dustbin Baby\", Clark's mother started the Don't Play Me, Pay Me campaign in attempt to stop actors \"playing disabled\". Her mother said that actors without mental disabilities playing characters with specific conditions is the \"blacking-up of the 21st century\", claiming that \"we need to break down these barriers. They're unacceptable and indefensible in a modern-day society, especially when there are so many good, disabled actors who are both ready, eager and able to take on these parts\". Clark is heavily involved in the campaign, and said that\nIt is not just mentally disabled actors who lose out when non-disabled people are employed to act them. Audiences think they are getting an authentic portrayal of a mentally disabled person, but they're not. It's not like putting on a different accent or learning what it was like to be raised in a different era. You can't understand what it is like to have a mental disability unless you've really lived with it. When non-disabled people try to portray us, they tend to fall back on stereotypes that have done our community so much harm in the past.\nTargets of the campaign include setting up a forum for mentally disabled actors, and \"to see disabled actors playing parts where the least interesting thing about them is their disability.\" As part of the campaign, her mother, who was an aspiring actress herself, asked stage schools to be more pro-active in encouraging the enrollment of students with disabilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "49635726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49635726", "title": "Louise Gavan Duffy", "text": "Louise Gavan Duffy\n\nLouise Gavan Duffy (, 17 July 1884 – 12 October 1969) was a suffragist and Irish nationalist who was present in the General Post Office, the main headquarters during the 1916 Easter Rising. She was also an educator, Irish language enthusiast and Gaelic revivalist, setting up the first Gaelscoil in Ireland.\n\nDuffy was born in Cimiez, France, into an Irish family which was both strongly Catholic and staunchly nationalist. Her father and brothers were important figures in political and legal spheres. She was raised in France in a well-to-do and culturally vibrant home where she was exposed to political figures and ideas. As she became increasingly interested in Irish, she moved to Ireland to learn and teach the language, eventually establishing the first Irish language school in 1917. She was one of the first women to graduate from University College Dublin, earning a Bachelor of Arts in 1911.\n\nHer interest in women's suffrage and Irish nationalism led to close connections with those movements and with similarly minded women. She became a founding member of two of the country's paramilitary republican organisations for women, \"Cumann na mBan\" and \"Cumann na Saoirse\". She was closely involved in the fighting during the Irish Easter Rebellion in 1916 and was part of the unsuccessful deputation to U.S. President Woodrow Wilson, calling for his support of Irish independence.\n\nBorn in France, Louise Gavan Duffy was the daughter of the Irish nationalist Sir Charles Gavan Duffy, one of the founders of \"The Nation\" and his third wife, Louise (née Hall). As a result of his activities as a nationalist, her father had been repeatedly tried for treason and sedition. Eventually he moved to Australia where he became the 8th Premier of Victoria. Finally he retired to France.\n\nHer brother George Gavan Duffy, one of the signatories to the Anglo-Irish Treaty in 1921, was an Irish politician, barrister and judge. Her half-brother Sir Frank Gavan Duffy was the fourth Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia, sitting on the bench from 1913 to 1935. After her mother died when she was five, she was reared in Nice by her Australian half-sisters from her father's second marriage.\n\nDuffy first came to Dublin in 1903, when her father died and was buried in Glasnevin Cemetery. That was when she first heard Irish spoken; she found a grammar book in her father's belongings and became curious. Her father had not been an Irish speaker, though his mother had been fluent. Duffy fell for the language and resolved to move to Ireland.\n\nShe could not afford to move until she received a small inheritance from her grandmother in 1907. Once in Ireland, she went to the Gaeltacht to learn Irish and also took courses through Cusack's College in London so that she could matriculate. Then she entered University College Dublin, taking arts. She lived in the Women's College, Dominican Convent, graduating in 1911 with a Bachelor of Arts and was one of the first women to do so. Given the lack of teachers, even without a full qualification, she taught in Patrick Pearse's St Ita's school for girls in Ranelagh.\n\nA supporter of women's suffrage, Duffy spoke at a mass meeting in Dublin in 1912 in favour having of the Home Rule bill include a section to grant women the vote. She also joined the Irish republican women's paramilitary organisation \"Cumann na mBan\", as a founding member in April 1914, serving on the provisional committee with Mary Colum, as a co-secretary.\n\nShe was aware that being a suffragist and a nationalist were not necessarily the same thing, realizing her involvement in \"Cumann na mBan\" was in support of nationalism.\nWhen St Ita's closed for funding problems in 1912, Duffy took the opportunity to complete her qualifications. After receiving her Cambridge teacher's diploma in 1913, she returned to UCD to study for a Master of Arts degree.\n\nShe was in fact working on her Master's thesis during the Easter break in 1916 when the rumour came to her that the Rising had begun in Dublin city centre. She walked to the Rebel headquarters in the GPO where she told Pearse, one of the leaders, that she did not agree with the violent uprising.\"I was brought to Pearse and had the temerity to tell him that I thought the rebellion was very wrong as it would certainly fail but that I wished to be there if there was going to be anything doing.\" She spent all of Easter week working in the GPO kitchens with other volunteers like Desmond FitzGerald and a couple of captured British soldiers, ensuring the volunteers were cared for. The women in the GPO were given the opportunity to leave under the protection of the Red Cross on the Thursday as the shelling of the building had caused fires but almost all of them refused. In the end the she was amongst the second group of the people to leave the GPO on the Friday, tunnelling through the walls of the buildings to avoid coming under fire.\n\nHer group made it to Jervis Street Hospital where they spent the night. The next day, Saturday, Pearse formally surrendered. Duffy headed for Jacob's Biscuit Factory, another volunteer position, on the morning after the surrender, to see what was happening. There she found a hold out of volunteers who were unaware of the surrender or that the fighting was over.\n\nAfter 1916 she was elected to the \"Cumann na mBan’s\" executive and in 1918 was one of the signatories to a petition for self-determination for Ireland which was presented to President Woodrow Wilson by Hanna Sheehy-Skeffington. During her time in the GPO, she had collected names of the volunteers and promised to take messages to their families. This may have influenced her in being involved in the National Aid Association and Volunteers Dependants Fund. In the aftermath of the rebellion there were 64 known dead among the volunteers, while 3,430 men and 79 women were arrested. Families needed support. These organisations were able to arrange funding from the USA.\n\nIn 1917 Duffy co-founded and ran \"Scoil Bhríde\", an Irish language school for girls in Dublin, which is still in operation. Her co-founder was Annie McHugh who later married Ernest Blythe. The end of the Rising led to the Irish War of Independence. It was fought from 1919 to 1921. During this time, Duffy was mostly focused on the school. However, it was raided by the military and Duffy later admitted it was in fact used for rebel meetings and to safeguard documents. In October 1920, the Irish leader Michael Collins met Archbishop Patrick Clune there in secret.\n\nThe war ended with the Anglo-Irish Treaty in 1921. The result was the Irish Civil War which lasted until 1923. Duffy was a supporter of the Treaty, which her brother had signed, and as such she left \"Cumann na mBan\" and joined \"Cumann na Saoirse\" which she was instrumental in founding as an Irish republican women's organisation which supported the Pro-Treaty side.\n\nOnce the civil war was over, Duffy left the political arena and returned to education. She especially needed to focus on funding in the early years of the school. She worked with UCD's Department of Education from 1926, once \"Scoil Bhríde\" was recognised as a teacher training school. She published educational documents like \"School Studies in The Appreciation of Art\" with Elizabeth Aughney and published by UCD in 1932.\n\nUntil her retirement, she also lectured on the teaching of French. Once retired, she gave much of her time to the Legion of Mary and to an association which worked with French au pairs in Dublin. In 1948 she was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Laws by the National University of Ireland. She retired as principal in 1944.\n\nRecognising the importance of her first-hand experience and with a good political understanding, Duffy recorded her memories of the events in which she had taken part. In 1949, she gave an account of her life in relation to nationalist activities to the Bureau of Military History. She was involved in an Radio Éireann broadcast in 1956 about the women in the Rising. In 1962 she took part in the RTÉ TV program \"Self Portrait\" broadcast on 20 March 1962. In March 1966 she gave a lecture in UCD to mark the 50th anniversary of the Rising which was published in \"The Easter rising, 1916, and University College Dublin\" (1966).\n\nIn 2014, An Post issued a stamp to commemorate the centenary of the founding of \"Cumann na mBan\". In 2016, for the centenary, a documentary was produced, discussing seven of the women, including Duffy, who were involved in the Easter rising.\n\nDuffy died, unmarried, in 1969, aged 85, and was interred in the family plot in Glasnevin Cemetery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "273373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273373", "title": "Lucinda Williams", "text": "Lucinda Williams\n\nLucinda Williams (born January 26, 1953) is an American rock, folk, blues, and country music singer, songwriter and musician.\n\nShe recorded her first albums in 1978 and 1980 in a traditional country and blues style and received very little attention from radio, the media, or the public. In 1988, she released her self-titled album, \"Lucinda Williams\". This release featured \"Passionate Kisses,\" a song later recorded by Mary Chapin Carpenter, which garnered Williams her first Grammy Award for Best Country Song in 1994.\n\nKnown for working slowly, Williams recorded and released only one other album in the next several years, \"Sweet Old World\", in 1992. Her commercial breakthrough came in 1998 with \"Car Wheels on a Gravel Road\", an album presenting a broader scope of songs that fused rock, blues, country and Americana into a distinctive style that remained consistent and commercial in sound. \"Car Wheels on a Gravel Road\", which includes the Grammy nominated track \"Can't Let Go\", became Williams' greatest commercial success to date. The album was certified Gold by the RIAA and earned Williams a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Folk Album, while being universally acclaimed by critics. Williams released the critically acclaimed \"Essence\" three years later, and the album also became a commercial success. One of the album's tracks, \"Get Right With God,\" earned Williams the Grammy Award for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance in 2002.\n\nWilliams has released a string of albums since that have earned her more critical acclaim and commercial success. She has won 3 Grammy Awards, from 15 nominations, and received 2 Americana Awards, from 12 nominations. Additionally, Williams ranked No. 97 on VH1's 100 Greatest Women in Rock & Roll in 1998, and was named \"America's best songwriter\" by \"Time\" magazine in 2002. \n\nWilliams was born in Lake Charles, Louisiana, the daughter of poet and literature professor Miller Williams and an amateur pianist, Lucille Fern Day. Her parents divorced in the mid-1960s. Williams's father gained custody of her and her younger brother, Robert Miller, and sister, Karyn Elizabeth. Like her father, she has spina bifida. Her father worked as a visiting professor in Mexico and different parts of the United States, including Baton Rouge; New Orleans; Jackson, Mississippi; and Utah before settling at the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville. Williams never graduated from high school but was accepted into the University of Arkansas. Williams started writing when she was 6 years old and showed an affinity for music at an early age, and was playing guitar at 12. Williams's first live performance was in Mexico City at 17, as part of a duo with her friend, a banjo player named Clark Jones.\n\nBy her early 20s, Williams was playing publicly in Austin and Houston, Texas, concentrating on a folk-rock-country blend. She moved to Jackson, Mississippi, in 1978 to record her first album, for Smithsonian/Folkways Records. Titled \"Ramblin' on My Mind\", it was a collection of country and blues covers. The album title was shortened to \"Ramblin'\" when it was reissued. She followed it up in 1980 with \"Happy Woman Blues\", which consisted of her own material. Neither album received much attention.\n\nIn the 1980s, Williams moved to Los Angeles, California (before finally settling in Nashville, Tennessee), where, at times backed by a rock band and at others performing in acoustic settings, she developed a following and a critical reputation. While based in Los Angeles, she was briefly married to Long Ryders drummer Greg Sowders, whom she had met in a club. In 1988 Rough Trade Records released the self-titled \"Lucinda Williams\", which was produced by Gurf Morlix. The single \"Changed the Locks\", about a broken relationship, received radio play around the country and gained fans among music insiders, including Tom Petty, who would later cover the song.\n\nIts follow-up, \"Sweet Old World\" (Chameleon, 1992), also produced by Morlix, is a melancholy album dealing with themes of suicide and death. Williams' biggest success during the early 1990s was as a songwriter. Mary Chapin Carpenter recorded a cover of \"Passionate Kisses\" (from \"Lucinda Williams\") in 1992, and the song became a smash country hit for which Williams received the Grammy Award for Best Country Song in 1994. Carpenter also received a Grammy for her performance of the song. She duetted with Steve Earle on the song \"You're Still Standin' There\" from his album \"I Feel Alright\". In 1991, the song \"Lucinda Williams\" appeared on Vic Chesnutt's album \"West of Rome\".\n\nWilliams had garnered considerable critical acclaim, but her commercial success was moderate. Emmylou Harris said of Williams, \"She is an example of the best of what country at least says it is, but, for some reason, she's completely out of the loop and I feel strongly that that's country music's loss.\" Harris recorded the title track from Williams's \"Sweet Old World\" for her career-redefining 1995 album, \"Wrecking Ball\".\n\nWilliams also gained a reputation as a perfectionist and slow worker when it came to recording; six years would pass before her next album release, though she appeared as a guest on other artists' albums and contributed to several tribute compilations during this period.\n\nThe long-awaited release, 1998's \"Car Wheels on a Gravel Road\", was Williams' breakthrough into the mainstream and received a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Folk Album. Containing the single \"Still I Long for Your Kiss\" from the Robert Redford film \"The Horse Whisperer\", the album received wide critical notice and soon went gold. The single \"Can't Let Go\" also enjoyed considerable crossover radio play. Williams toured with Bob Dylan, the Allman Brothers and Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, and on her own in support of the album. An expanded edition of the album, including three additional studio recordings and a second CD documenting a 1998 concert, was released in 2006.\n\nIn 1999, she appeared on \"\", duetting with David Crosby on the title track of the tribute album.\n\nWilliams followed up the success of \"Car Wheels\" with \"Essence\" (2001). This release features a less produced, more down-tuned approach both musically and lyrically, and moved Williams further from the country music establishment while winning fans in the alternative music world. She won the 2001 Grammy Award for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance for the single \"Get Right with God,\" an atypically uptempo gospel-rock tune from the otherwise rather low-key release. The title track includes a contribution on Hammond organ by alternative country musician Ryan Adams.\n\nHer seventh album, \"World Without Tears\", was released in 2003. A musically adventurous though lyrically downbeat album, this release found Williams experimenting with talking blues stylings and electric blues.\n\nIn 2006, Williams recorded a version of the John Hartford classic \"Gentle on My Mind,\" which played over the closing credits of the Will Ferrell film \"\".\n\nWilliams was a guest vocalist on the song \"Factory Girls\" from Irish punk-folk band Flogging Molly's 2004 album, \"Within a Mile of Home,\" and appeared on Elvis Costello's \"The Delivery Man\". She sings with folk legend Ramblin' Jack Elliott on the track \"Careless Darling\" from his 2006 release \"I Stand Alone.\"\n\nIn 2007, Williams released \"West\", for which she wrote more than 27 songs. The album was released on February 13, 2007. It addresses her mother's death and a tumultuous relationship break-up. \"Vanity Fair\" praised it, saying \"Lucinda Williams has made the record of a lifetime—part Hank Williams, part Bob Dylan, part Keith Richards circa \"Exile on Main St.\" ...\"\n\nIn the fall of 2007, Williams announced a series of shows in Los Angeles and New York. Playing five nights in each city, she performed her entire catalog on consecutive nights. These albums include the self-titled \"Lucinda Williams\", \"Sweet Old World\", \"Car Wheels on a Gravel Road\", \"Essence\", and \"World Without Tears\". Each night also featured a second set with special guest stars. Some of the many special guests included Steve Earle, Allison Moorer, Mike Campbell, Greg Dulli, E, Ann Wilson, Emmylou Harris, David Byrne, David Johansen, Yo la Tengo, John Doe, Chuck Prophet, Jim Lauderdale and Shelby Lynne. In addition, each night's album set was recorded and made available to the attendees that night. These live recordings are currently available on her website and at her shows.\n\nThe next album from Williams wrapped recording in March 2008. Titled \"Little Honey\", it was released on October 14 of that year. It includes 13 songs—among them, \"Real Love\" and \"Little Rock Star,\" the latter inspired by music celebrities in the press, like Pete Doherty and Amy Winehouse. \"Little Honey\" also includes a cover of AC/DC's \"Long Way to the Top\" and \"Rarity,\" inspired by singer-songwriter Mia Doi Todd.\n\nIn July 2008, though \"Little Honey\" had yet to be released, \"Paste\" magazine.com listened to an advance copy and rated the duet between Williams and Elvis Costello on the song \"Jailhouse Tears\" as the No. 5 all-time greatest country/rock duets.\n\nWilliams released a cover of Shel Silverstein's \"The Ballad of Lucy Jordan\" in June 2010 as part of the \"Twistable, Turnable Man\" tribute album.\n\nHer 2008 concert appearance at the Catalyst, Santa Cruz, contained an announcement by the city's mayor that September 6, 2008 would henceforth be Lucinda Williams Day.\n\nOn March 1, 2011, Williams released the album \"Blessed\".\n\nIn September 2012, she was featured in a campaign called \"30 Songs / 30 Days\" to support \"\", a multi-platform media project inspired by Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn's book.\n\nIn 2012 and 2013 Williams went on U.S. tour accompanied only by guitarist Doug Pettibone.\n\nOn September 30, 2014, Williams released her eleventh studio album, \"Down Where the Spirit Meets the Bone\", the first album on her Highway 20 Records label.\n\nIn 2015, Williams provided backup vocals for the Don Henley song \"Train in the Distance\" on his album \"Cass County.\"\n\nOn February 5, 2016, Williams released the album \"The Ghosts of Highway 20\" and performed on \"The Late Show with Stephen Colbert\" on February 17, 2016.\n\nOn June 29, 2018 Blue Note Records will release \"Vanished Gardens\" by Charles Lloyd & the Marvels which features Lucinda on five tracks. Marvels members Bill Frisell and Greg Leisz have previously worked with Williams, including on Car Wheels on a Gravel Road. \n\nIn May 2017, Lucinda was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Music from Berklee College of Music during the 2017 Commencement Concert. In June, \"Rolling Stone\" named Williams one of the 100 Greatest Country Artists of All Time. Later that year, she re-recorded and expanded her 1992 \"Sweet Old World\" album, this time titled \"This Sweet Old World\".\n\nDuring the 1980s, Williams was briefly married to Long Ryders drummer Greg Sowders. In September 2009 she married Tom Overby, an executive from Best Buy's music department, who is also her manager. The marriage ceremony was performed on stage by her father.\n\n\n\n\nThe Americana Awards are presented annually by the Americana Music Association and celebrate outstanding achievement in americana music. Williams is one of the most nominated artists in the history of the awards show with 12, including 2 wins.\nThe Grammy Awards are awarded annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States for outstanding achievements in the record industry. Williams has received three awards in three separate categories (country, folk and rock) from 15 nominations that span five genres (pop, rock, country, folk and americana).\nThe American folk/rock band Augustana references the musician in the song \"Meet You There,\" on their studio album \"Can't Love, Can't Hurt\". The lyrics state, \"Just put on Lucinda, Baby, and dance with me.\"\n\nShe is also referenced by the character Kathleen \"Kat\" Hall played by Mireille Enos in the film \"If I Stay\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55009673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55009673", "title": "Lydia W. Allison", "text": "Lydia W. Allison\n\nLydia Winterhalter Allison (September 14, 1880 - March 25, 1959), best known as Lydia W. Allison was an American parapsychologist and writer.\n\nAllison was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In 1905, she married physician Edward Wood Allison. After the death of her husband in 1920 she became involved in psychical research. She was the Secretary and Assistant Treasurer of the American Society for Psychical Research and Chairman of its Committee of Publications. In 1925 she founded the Boston Society for Psychical Research with Walter Franklin Prince and others.\n\nAllison investigated spiritualist mediums such as Gladys Osborne Leonard and Minnie M. Soule. She authored \"Leonard and Soule Experiments\" (1929). Gardner Murphy commented that \"Her combination of unfailing enthusiasm for the highest quality research and solid skepticism regarding unsound methods made her a precious collaborator.\" Psychical researcher G. N. M. Tyrrell wrote that Allison was a \"very experienced and scientifically cautious investigator.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27981780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27981780", "title": "Ma Rulong (Qing general)", "text": "Ma Rulong (Qing general)\n\nMa Rulong (Ma Julung in Wade Giles) was a Chinese Muslim who originally rebelled against the Qing dynasty along with Du Wenxiu in the Panthay Rebellion. He later defected to the Qing side. After officially surrendering in 1862 his forces effectively occupied the capital of Yunnan. He then helped the Qing forces crush his fellow Muslim rebels, and defeated them. He was known by the name of Marshal Ma to Europeans and achieved almost total control in Yunnan province. He was the most powerful military official in the province after the war.\n\nDu Wenxiu was fought against by the defector to the Qing Ma Rulong. The Muslim scholar Ma Dexin, who said that Neo-Confucianism was reconcilable with Islam, approved of Ma Rulong defecting to the Qing and he also assisted other Muslims in defecting.\n\nGeneral Ma Yu-kun, who fought against Japanese forces in the First Sino-Japanese War and against foreigners in the Boxer Rebellion was believed to be Ma Rulong's son by Europeans.\n\n"}
{"id": "30864680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864680", "title": "Oscar Schmidt", "text": "Oscar Schmidt\n\nOscar Daniel Bezerra Schmidt (born February 16, 1958) is a retired Brazilian professional basketball player. He is also known as Oscar Schmidt Bezerra in Spain, where he played for Fórum Valladolid for the 1993–94 and 1994–95 seasons, and simply Oscar, or \"Mão Santa\" (Holy Hand), in his homeland. Schmidt played the small forward position, was 2.05 m (6 ft 8 in) tall and weighed 102 kg (225 lbs). He was born in Natal, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil.\n\nHe is considered to be the all-time leading scorer in the history of basketball, with 49,737 career points scored (club play, plus national team play combined). He is also a record holder for the longest career span of a professional basketball player, and the top scorer in the history of the Summer Olympic Games.\n\nHe was named one of FIBA's 50 Greatest Players in 1991. On August 20, 2010, Schmidt was inducted into the FIBA Hall of Fame, in recognition of his play in international competition. On September 8, 2013, Schmidt was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.\n\nWhile playing with Sírio of the Brazilian Basketball League, Schmidt won both the South American Club Championship and the FIBA World Club Championship in 1979.\n\nHe was drafted by the New Jersey Nets in the sixth round of the 1984 NBA Draft, and had several other opportunities to play in the NBA, but declined them all in order to continue to play for Brazil's national team (until 1989, NBA players were not allowed to play for national teams).\n\nSchmidt won the Italian Cup with Caserta in 1988. He was the Top Scorer of the Italian Basketball League 7 times (1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1989, 1990, 1992). He also led the Spanish Basketball League in scoring in 1994, while he was a member of Valladolid.\n\nWhile playing in Italy, he earned a fan in future NBA star Kobe Bryant, who called Schmidt one of his childhood idols and later said Schmidt could have been one of the greatest in the NBA if he had played there.\n\nHe returned to his native Brazil in 1995, to play once again in the Brazilian Basketball League with Corinthians, and was the league's top scorer 8 times (1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003). He retired on May 26, 2003.\n\nWith the senior Brazilian national basketball team, Schmidt played in five Summer Olympics (the second player to do so after Teófilo Cruz) and was the top scorer in three of them. However, he never went past the quarterfinals. In the 1980 Summer Olympics, he played seven games and scored 169 points, for a 24.1 average.\n\nHe again scored 169 points in seven games in the 1984 Summer Olympics. His best Olympic performance was the 1988 Summer Olympics. He scored 338 points, for an average of 42.3 points per game.\n\nIn 1992, he scored 198 points in eight games, and in 1996, he scored 219 points in 8 games. In 38 career Olympic basketball games, Schmidt scored a record of 1,093 points, for an average of 28.8 points per game.\n\nHe is the all-time career leader in total points scored in the FIBA World Cup, having scored a total of 843 points in 35 games, for a scoring average of 24.1 points per game. He won the bronze medal and made the All-Tournament Team at the 1978 FIBA World Cup, and made the All-Tournament Teams of both the 1986 FIBA World Cup and the 1990 FIBA World Cup, which he also led in scoring, averaging 34.6 points per game.\n\nSchmidt played in the gold-medal match of the 1987 Pan American Games in Indianapolis. The US national team, composed of college players at those games, featured two All-Americans in David Robinson (Hall of Famer) and Danny Manning, two NCAA Championship Final Four MVPs, in Pervis Ellison and Keith Smart, and other future NBA players, such as Rex Chapman and Dan Majerle. Brazil faced a 68–54 halftime deficit. Schmidt finished with 46 points, in a 120–115 win.\n\nIn 2004, Schmidt started his career in management. He was the CEO of \"Telemar Rio de Janeiro\", a Brazilian team which played for two years and won the \"Campeonato Carioca\" (Rio de Janeiro Championship) in 2004 and 2005.\n\nIn 2006, Schmidt, along with other Brazilian basketball greats such as Paula and Hortência, (another Hall of Famer), led the \"NLB: Nossa Liga de Basquete\" (\"our basketball league\"), an attempted rival to the Brazilian Basketball League. However, the league folded a year later.\n\nIn 2016, he was one of the guests at the opening ceremony of the summer olympics \"Rio 2016\", alongside international celebrities such as model Gisele Bündchen, actor Gustavo Goulart, and singer Caetano Veloso among others.\n\nOn May 13, 2013, Schmidt had brain surgery to excise a malignant tumor. At first, nobody knew about it except for his family. The press found out about the disease fifteen days after the surgery at a dinner celebrating the 50th anniversary of the two-time World Champion Brazilian National Team. Schmidt did not appear as he was recuperating from daily chemotherapy sessions.\n\nThe disease is now in remission.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56505809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56505809", "title": "Pauline Londeix", "text": "Pauline Londeix\n\nPauline Londeix (born in 1986) is a French activist researcher and writer, who has been particularly involved in the fight for the access to generic medicines used against HIV and Hepatitis C virus (HCV), in particular through contributing to challenging monopolies and intellectual property barriers in the Global South, but also in high income countries, such as France.\nIn 2008, she was the Vice President of the French HIV/AIDS organisation Act Up-Paris. In 2011, she co-founded Act Up-Basel.\n\nShe has been involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS since 2005. In 2009, she took part to a cross interview with Françoise Barré-Sinoussi in the French daily paper Libération Since 2011, she has been particularly involved in the access to new hepatitis C breakthrough treatments : the direct acting antivirals. She is the main author of the Medecins du Monde's report \"New treatments for hepatitis C virus : strategies for achieving universal access\" (2014) that was presented during the International aids conference that took place in Melbourne. She is the author or the co-author of various articles and reports linked to access to medicines.\n\n"}
{"id": "1220321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1220321", "title": "Prakash Padukone", "text": "Prakash Padukone\n\nPrakash Padukone (ಪ್ರಕಾಶ್ ಪಡುಕೋಣೆ in Kannada) (born 10 June 1955) is a former Indian badminton player. He was ranked World No. 1 in 1980; the same year he became the first Indian to win the All England Open Badminton Championships. He was awarded the Arjuna award in 1972 and the Padma Shri in 1982 by the Government of India. He is one of the co-founders of Olympic Gold Quest, a foundation dedicated to the promotion of Olympic sports in India.\n\nPadukone was born on 10 June 1955 in Bangalore, Karnataka. His surname, Padukone, is the name of the village Padukone from where his family originates.\n\nPadukone got married to Ujjala, a match arranged by their parents in the Indian Hindu system. They have two daughters - Deepika Padukone, a Bollywood actress, and Anisha Padukone, a golfer. Padukone, his wife and younger daughter Anisha reside in Bangalore, whereas Deepika lives and works in Mumbai.\n\nPrakash Padukone's life story has been chronicled in the biography 'Touch Play', by Dev S. Sukumar. The book is only the second biography of any badminton player.\n\nPrakash was initiated into the game by his father Ramesh Padukone, who was the Secretary of the \"Mysore Badminton Association\" for many years.\n\nPadukone's first official tournament was the Karnataka state junior championship in 1962. Though he lost in the very first round, two years later he managed to win the state junior title. He changed his playing style into a more aggressive style in 1971, and won the Indian national junior title in 1972. He also won the senior title the same year. He won the National title consecutively for the next seven years. In 1978, he won his first major international title, the men's singles gold medal at the 1978 Commonwealth Games in Edmonton, Canada. In 1979, he won the \"Evening of Champions\" at the Royal Albert Hall, London.\n\nIn 1980, he won the Danish Open, the Swedish Open and became the first Indian to win the men's singles title at the All England Championship with a victory over Indonesian rival Liem Swie King. He spent much of his international career training in Denmark, and developed close friendships with European players such as Morten Frost.\n\nAfter his retirement from competitive sports in 1991, Padukone served as the chairman of the Badminton Association of India for a short while. He also served as the coach of the Indian national badminton team from 1993 to 1996.\n\nAfter retirement, Padukone has sought to mentor budding young players and help them achieve glory for the country. He runs the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy and, along with Geet Sethi, he is a co-founder of Olympic Gold Quest, a foundation dedicated to the promotion of Olympic sports in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "45394206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45394206", "title": "Shail Upadhya", "text": "Shail Upadhya\n\nShail Upadhya (1935-2013) was a Nepalese diplomat, United Nations disarmament expert and fashion designer.\n\nIn a second career, Upadhya worked as a fashion designer, becoming a social fixture in New York City, known for his flamboyant and colorful suits and outfits. He was a prominent presence in the 2011 documentary film \"Bill Cunningham New York,\" about New York Times fashion photographer Bill Cunningham. He lived in New York City, Southampton, New York, and Miami, Florida.\n\nUpadhya was interviewed on \"Da Ali G Show\" by Sacha Baron Cohen's character Brüno at New York Fashion Week.\n"}
{"id": "2518675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2518675", "title": "Sharabha", "text": "Sharabha\n\nSharabha (, , , Telugu: శరభ) or Sarabha is a part-lion and part-bird beast in Hindu mythology, who, according to Sanskrit literature, is eight-legged and more powerful than a lion or an elephant, possessing the ability to clear a valley in one jump. In later literature, Sharabha is described as an eight-legged deer.\n\nShaiva scriptures narrate that god Shiva assumed the Avatar (incarnation) of Sharabha to pacify Narasimha - the fierce man-lion avatar of Vishnu worshipped by Vaishnava sect. This form is popularly known as Sharabeshwara (\"Lord Sharabha\") or Sharabeshwaramurti. The Vaishnavas refute the portrayal of Narasimha as being destroyed by Shiva-Sharabha and regard Sharabha as a name of Vishnu. Another tale narrates that Vishnu assumed the form of the ferocious Gandaberunda bird-animal to combat Sharabha. In Buddhism, Sharabha appears in Jataka Tales as a previous birth of the Buddha.\n\nSharabha also appears in the emblem of State government of the Indian state of Karnataka, University of Mysore and the Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Limited.\n\nIn Sanskrit literature, Sharabha is initially described as an animal that roared and scared other animals in the hills and forest areas. Similies compare warriors to Sharabha. In the later epic Mahabharata, this form of Sharabha was exaggerated as a lion-slaying monster with eight legs, eyes on the top; living in the forest and which ate raw flesh. It is also mentioned as residing on Mount Krauncha but not as a monster but as an ordinary beast along with lions and tigers on mount Gandhamadana. The epic also includes Sharabha in the list of edible animals - the \"mrigajatis\"- the animal group of antelope, deer, hare, bear, ruru deer, sambar, gayal, boar, and buffalo - which was offered as part of food at dinner to guests. Sharabha also appears as a name of a monkey-king in the epic Ramayana, also as a proper name of heroes, apes, demons (danavas) and serpent Nāgas and one of the names of god Vishnu as well as Buddha. In defining the ecological theme in Hindu medicine related to jungle and the aroma of meats, Sharabha has also been listed among the deer natives of Kashmir, Nepal, and Sikkim. However, the features explained are of an eight legged animal of the size of a camel with huge horns and conjectured as a large Himalayan goat.\n\nIn Puranic literature, Sharabha is associated with god Shiva, who incarnates to subdue fierce manifestations of Vishnu. The legend of Sharabha fighting Narasimha - the man-lion form of Vishnu - brings to fore the overt rivalry between the devotees of Vishnu (Vaishnavite sect) and those of Shiva (Shaivite sect), which exposes the fierce debate aspect. According to Roy, the Narasimha-Sharabha encounter may be a Shaiva version of vedic tale of Vishnu piercing the boar. Shiva Purana describes Sharabha as thousand-armed, lion-faced and with matted hair, wings and eight feet. Sharabha Upanishad portrays Sharabha with two heads, two wings, eight legs of the lion with sharp claws and a long tail. Kalika Purana describes Sharabha as black in colour, with four feet downwards and four feet uplifted, with an enormous body. It also has a long face and nose, nails, eight legs, eight tusks, a cluster of manes, and a long tail. It jumps high repeatedly making a loud cry.\nThe iconography of Sharabeshwaramurti (Shiva as Sharabha) is specifically defined in texts such as \"Khamikagama\" and \"Sritattvanidhi\". In Khamikagama, Sharabha is described in the form of a bird with golden color, with two uplifted wings, two red eyes, four legs in the form of a lion touching the ground, four legs with claws upwards, and with an animal tail. The top part of the body is shown as human but with the face of a lion with an ornamented crown; side tusks are also depicted giving an overall frightening sight. It also shows the Narasimha beneath Sharabha’s legs as a lion-faced human with \"anjali\" (hands folded prayer gesture). (See Infobox image)\n\nIn the Sritattvanidhi, the depiction prescribed for Sharabeshwaramurti is of thirty arms; arms on the right are to hold thunderbolt, mushti, abhaya, chakra (discus), sakti, staff, goad, sword, khatvanga, axe, akshamala, a bone, bow, musala, and fire; and the left hands to display noose, varada, mace, arrow, flag, and another type of sword, a snake, a lotus flower, skull-cup, pustaka, plough, and mrudanga with one hand encircling Durga in a hug. This form is extolled to usher good luck, cure all diseases and destroy all enemies.\n\nThe Chola dynasty in Tamil Nadu was particularly favourable to the beliefs of Shaiva sect. It is said that the sectarian aspect got highlighted during their reign. This is evident from the four Sharabha images, the earliest at the Vikramsolishwaram temple near Kumbakonam built by Vikrama Chola (1118–35). The other images are at Darasuram and Kampahareshvarar temple, Thirubuvanam built by a Chola ruler, Kulottunga Chola III where Sharabha's image is housed in a separate shrine.\n\nA sculpture of Sharbeshwaramurti in the Tribhuvanam temple, a Shiva temple in Tanjore district, in Tamil Nadu is seen with three legs, with body and face of a lion and a tail. It has four human arms, the right upper hand holds axe, noose is held in the lower right hand, the deer in the upper left hand and fire in the lower left hand. Narasimha is shown with eight arms in the Airavatesvara Temple at Darasuram, a rare image of the Chola period, in black basalt, depicts Shiva as Sharabha. It is deified in an exclusive small shrine, as part man, beast and bird, destroying the man-lion incarnation of Vishnu, Narasimha. This highlights the hostility between the Shaivite and Vaishnavite sects. In the Chennakeshava temple of Belur (1113), Karnataka, Gandaberunda (2-faced bird identified with Vishnu) depiction is a carved scene of \"chain of destruction\". Initially, a deer is prey to a large python, followed by being lifted by an elephant and a lion attacking the elephant, and the lion shown as devoured by Sharabha.In Maharashtra the stone cut Sharabha idol is placed on the outer walls of the entrance gate of many historic forts.\nIn iconographic representations of the myth of Shiva vis-à-vis Vishnu, Sharabha form has been built around Narasimha but substantially embellished with wings to represent Kali and Durga to denote the female powers (shaktis) of Shiva; Sharabha is also shown with a bird head and a serpent in his beak head.\n\nThe Mahabharata, the great Hindu epic, narrates: a dog, with the help of a Rishi (sage) assumes various animal forms - starting from a dog to a tiger then to an elephant followed by a lion and a sharabha - terrorized every one in the hermitage of the Rishi. Eventually, Sharabha assumed a further fiercer form. In this fierce form he wanted to devour the Rishi. The Rishi then narrating the process of change in Sharabha’s development, as a result of his benevolence, cursed Sharabha to go back to his original form of a dog. The epic does not relate Shiva to Sharabha.\n\nThe legend of Sharabha as an incarnation of Shiva is narrated in many Hindu scriptures and each presents a different version to suit one’s religious beliefs. But one common refrain in all these depictions is that Sharabha is a combination of a huge animal-bird beast with enormous strength manifested with the purpose of pacifying similar ferocious avatars of Vishnu such as Narasimha (man-lion) or Varaha (the boar).\n\nThe Narasimha-Sharabha legend is linked to gods assuming mythical animal forms to slay or subdue as the case may be. First, Vishnu assumed the form of Narasimha to slay Hiranyakashipu, an asura (demon) king, who was terrorizing the universe and devotee of Shiva. The Shiva Purana mentions: After slaying Hiranyakashipu, Narasimha’s wrath was not appeased. The world trembled, fearing what he might do. The Devas (the gods) requested Shiva to tackle Narasimha. Initially, Shiva brings forth Virabhadra, one of his terrifying forms, in order to calm Narasimha. When that failed, Shiva manifested as the human-lion-bird Sharabha, with Pratyangira and Soolini, Shiva's female energies, forming his wings. Sharabha then attacked Narasimha and immobilized him by deploying Pratyangira as a weapon. He thus quelled Narasimha’s terrifying rage and restored sattva back into him. Narasimha became a devotee of Shiva after being bound by Sharabha. Sharabha then decapitated and de-skinned Narasimha so Shiva could wear the hide and lion-head as a garment. The Linga Purana and Sharabha Upanishad also mention this mutilation and murder of Narasimha. After the mutilation, Vishnu assumed his normal form and retired to his abode, after duly praising Shiva. It was from here on that Shiva came to be known as \"Sharabeshamurti\" or \"Simhagnamurti\".\nThe Skanda Purana considers Narasimha as a mere irritation and not a threat to the world, contrary to what was brought out in the Shiva and Linga Puranas. The perception was that Vishnu may permanently adopt the fierce form of Narasimha, which would be detrimental to his role of doing good deeds. Hence, the purpose of Shiva assuming the form of Sharabha was to ensure that the lion body of Vishnu was discarded and he got united with his original divine form. Narasimha struck Sharabha with his body, it was Vishnu who groaned in pain and not Sharabha who was in an \"adamantine body\". It was then that Vishnu realised that Sharabha was none other than Shiva and bowed and praised Sharabha. Shiva then blesses Vishnu and gives him a boon to kill demons. A Purana ends the story with gods fearing that Sharabha may not be able to control his rage and thus urging Shiva to give up his Sharabha form. Thereafter, Shiva dismembered Sharabha’s form; his limbs were given away and his torso became a Kapalika. The Vamana Purana too discusses the tale, ending with Narasimha becoming the calm Vishnu again and Sharabha becoming a lingam, the symbol of Shiva.\n\nIn the Kalika Purana, Varaha - Vishnu’s boar avatar - had amorous dalliance with the earth goddess. He and his three boar sons then created mayhem in the world, which necessitated Shiva to take the form of Sharabha, to kill the Varaha form. Even, Vishnu requests Shiva to destroy Varaha, unable to control his own form. Here, Narasimha appears to aid Varaha. Sharabha kills Narasimha first and then kills Varaha, allowing Vishnu to reabsorb the energies of both his fierce forms. Finally, Sharabha defeats Vishnu.\n\nVaishnava followers including Dvaita scholars, such as Vijayendra Tirtha (1514–93) refute the portrayal of Narasimha as being destroyed by Sharabha as they consider the Shaivite Puranas as tamasic - and thus not authoritative - based on their reading of Sattvic Puranas and Shruti texts. The refutation of the Sharabha legend along with ten other Shaivite legends is discussed in a text by Vijayindra Tirtha called \"Shaivasarvasvakhandanam\".\n\nSome regional South-Indian scriptures narrate that Narasimha took the form of Gandaberunda (literally \"the mighty two-headed\"), a more ferocious two-headed bird-animal, who combats and destroys Shiva-Sharabha.\n\nThe Sharabha Upanishad mentions that \"shara\" means jiva (\"soul\") and Hari (Vishnu) is gleaming in the form of Sharabha, and that Hari has manifested as Sharabha who is capable of granting moksha (salvation). There is a reference to Sharabha in the Vishnu sahasranama, the 1000 names of Vishnu, and the literal meaning seems to suggest the praise of Sharabha (the lion-killing animal).\n\nNarasimhan Krishnamachari, a scholar on Vishishtadvaita philosophy, states that the name \"Sharabha\" has been interpreted in two ways namely; the first interpretation means \"the Destroyer (of those who transgress the bounds of ethics),\" as given by the Sri Vaishnavite commentator, Parasara Bhattar and the second interpretation as given by Adi Sankara, among others. The former is based on the Sanskrit verb SR, which means \"to injure to destroy\". According to C. V. Radhakrishna Sastri, \"Sara\" also refers to an arrow, and the perishable body shines if it is aimed at Bhagavan, because He shines in that body.\"\n\nAdi Shankaracharya, as with the reference in the Sharabha Upanishad, refers to this 356th name of Vishnu sahasranama as not mentioning the lion-killing animal at all and instead interprets the name to mean, \"As the Lord shines in the body as the indwelling Self, He is called Sharabha, while the body is sara (perishable).\" As these commentaries on the Vishnu sahasranama suggest, none of them refer to the avatar of Shiva.\nIn the Jataka tales of the Buddha's previous lives, there is narration related to his birth as Boddhisattva in a forest as a Sharabha, the eight-legged deer. This story is of one compassion of the deer shown towards the King who wanted to hunt the deer. The King, while trying to hunt the deer, fell into a precipice with his horse. The deer instead of abandoning the king to his fate rescued him. The King was deeply touched by the compassion shown by the deer and thereafter promulgated a decry stating that hunting was an illegal activity in his country.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, sharabha is represented as a beast with a goat's head and horns, a lion's mane and horse's body and legs. It symbolizes determination, strength and speed. Sometimes, it is represented additionally with horns of an antelope and claws of an eagle. Sometimes, the goat head is replaced by a lion's, horse's feet by a lion's and horns can be of a ram. A common feature of all representations is the horse's body. It is often depicted as mounts of young Devas or dwarfs in a \"Torana\" – a six-level archway behind an enlightenment throne of a Buddha or Boddhisattva. Together with the devas, they symbolize the perfection of effort (virya).\n\nThe Government of Karnataka, the University of Mysore and the Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Limited (KSDL-an industrial unit owned by the Government of Karnataka) have adopted Sharabha, with modifications and also appropriate justifications, as their emblem or logo.\n\nIn Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Limited logo, Sharabha is depicted in the form of a body of a lion with the head of an elephant to represent the virtues of wisdom, courage and strength. The Royal Emblem of Mysore has also been adopted by the University of Mysore as their logo too. This logo displays Gandabherunda flanked on either side by the lion-elephant - stronger than the lion and the elephant and defender of uprightness, surmounted by a lion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1342631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342631", "title": "Snap, Crackle and Pop", "text": "Snap, Crackle and Pop\n\nSnap, Crackle and Pop are the cartoon mascots of Kellogg's crisped-rice breakfast cereal Rice Krispies.\n\nThe gnomic elves characters were originally designed by illustrator Vernon Grant in the early 1930s. The names are an onomatopoeia and were derived from a Rice Krispies radio ad:\nThe first character appeared on the product's packaging in 1933, Grant added two more and named the trio Snap, Crackle and Pop. Snap is usually portrayed with a chef's toque on his head; Crackle often is shown wearing a red (or striped) tomte's tuque or \"sleeping cap,\" and Pop often wears a drum major's shako (sometimes Pop is seen also with a chef's toque, or an odd combination of both a shako and a toque). Corporate promotional material describes their personalities as resembling brothers. Snap is the oldest and known as a problem solver, Crackle is an unsure \"middle child\" and known as a jokester, and Pop is a mischievous youngster and the center of attention.\n\nFrom their original design as elderly gnomes with large noses, ears and hats, Snap, Crackle and Pop were reimagined with younger and more proportional features in 1949. Some time after 1955, their gnome-ish oversized ears became more proportional yet pointed, as seen in common portrayals of elves. They first appeared as animated characters in the 1960s, targeted toward such children's shows as \"The Howdy Doody Show\". The voices of the original gnomes were provided by Daws Butler, Paul Winchell and Don Messick. More recent voices have included Chris Evans, Keith Chegwin, Chad Doreck, Eddie Deezen, Thom Adcox-Hernandez and Dino Andrade. As of 2009, the three gnomes are voiced by Andy Hirsch (Snap), Danny Cooksey (Crackle) and Mark Ballou (Pop).\n\nThe trio were used in conservation messages during World War II and briefly re-imagined as superheroes in the early 1990s, but later returned to their original elf-like form. Likewise, there was briefly a fourth gnome in the 1950s named Pow who represented the claimed explosive nutritional value of Rice Krispies.\n\nLeo Burnett Worldwide assigned Chicago-based cartoonist Don Margolis to do Snap, Crackle and Pop for the Rice Krispies boxes as well as other applications. Davidson Marketing also used him for their Rice Krispies assignments. Don did the three gnomes until the end of 1998.\n\n\"Snap\", \"crackle\" and \"pop\" are terms, based on the Rice Krispies mascots, used for the fourth, fifth and sixth time derivatives of position. The first derivative of position with respect to time is velocity, the second is acceleration, and the third is jerk. The fourth is snap, or jounce, while the fifth and sixth are sometimes called crackle and pop.\n\n"}
{"id": "53046782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53046782", "title": "Soumitro Banerjee", "text": "Soumitro Banerjee\n\nSoumitro Banerjee (born 1960) is an Indian electrical engineer and a professor at the Department of Physical Sciences of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Kolkata. He is known for his studies on bifurcation phenomena in power electronic circuits and is an elected fellow of all the three major Indian science academies viz. the National Academy of Sciences, India, Indian Academy of Sciences, and Indian National Science Academy. He is also a fellow of The World Academy of Sciences, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, West Bengal Academy of Sciences and the Indian National Academy of Engineering. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, the apex agency of the Government of India for scientific research, awarded him the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology, one of the highest Indian science awards for his contributions to Engineering Sciences in 2003.\n\nSoumitro Banerjee, born on 17 October 1960 at Kolkata in the Indian state of West Bengal, did his graduate studies at Bengal Engineering College of the University of Calcutta from where he earned a BE degree in electrical engineering in 1981 and moved to the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi to gain an MTech in Energy Studies in 1983. After enrolling for PhD at IIT Delhi, he took up the post of a lecturer at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur in 1985 and while serving there he received his doctoral degree in 1988 for his thesis, \"Magnetic Energy Storage Units for Improvement of Power System Stability\". He served IIT Kharagpur till 2009 during which period held the positions of an assistant professor (1990–98), associate professor (1998–2003) and a professor. In 2009, he moved to the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Kolkata where he serves as a professor.\n\nBanerjee's researches have been focused on nonlinear dynamics and bifurcation theory and his experiments and analyses widened the understanding of border collision bifurcations. He worked on hybrid dynamical systems such as switching electronic circuits and mechanical systems showing impacts or stick-slip phenomenon and demonstrated border-collision bifurcation, a mode of dynamical transition, occurring in those systems. He developed a mathematical theory for elucidating these bifurcations and his studies are known to be in use in various applications. He has also worked extensively on nonlinear phenomena in power electronics. He has documented his researches by way of several articles; Google Scholar and ResearchGate, online article repositories of scientific articles, have listed many of them. Besides, he has made several presentations and has authored two books, \"Dynamics for Engineers\", which details modelling and analysis of dynamical systems, and \"Wind Electrical Systems\", the first Indian book on wind energy conversion. He has also edited a book, \"Nonlinear Phenomena in Power Electronics: Bifurcations, Chaos, Control, and Applications\", in which he has written a number of chapters.\n\nBanerjee was associated with three journals of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers; he served as the associate editor of IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II (2003–05) and of the IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems (2006–07) and is the associate editor of IEEE Circuits & Systems Society Newsletter since 2010. His efforts have been reported in the initiation of the \"National Conference on Nonlinear Systems and Dynamics\" (NCNSD) and he served as the convenor of the inaugural conference held at IIT Kharagpur campus in December 2003. he has also presented a number of papers at various editions of the conference. He is the general secretary of \"Breakthrough Science Society\", a non-governmental organization for the popularization of science and sits in the editorial board of its journal. He is also the editor of \"Prakriti\", a Bengali language science magazine. He has sat in the Sectional Committees on Electrical Engineering of such science academies as Indian National Academy of Engineering (2005–07 and 2013–15), Indian National Science Academy (2012–14) and Indian Academy of Sciences (2010–12. He has also been associated with several government agencies which included the Engineering Sciences Research Committee of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Programme Advisory Committee in Electrical, Electronic and Computer Engineering of the Department of Science and Technology (DST) as well as the Board of Members of West Bengal Renewable Energy Development Agency (WBREDA) and he is a member of the Screening Committee on Engineering for \"Inspire Faculty Award\" of the DST.\n\nBanerjee received the Boyscast Fellowship of the Department of Science and Technology in 1996 which enabled him to carry out collaborative research at the University of Maryland. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research awarded him the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize, one of the highest Indian science awards in 2003. The next year, Thomson Scientific included him in the list of top 250 scientists in the world with the highest citation count in the Engineering category and awarded him the 2004 Citation Laureate Award. The same year, the Indian National Academy of Engineering elected him as a fellow and he became a fellow of the Indian Academy of Sciences and the Indian National Science Academy in 2005 and 2007 respectively. He featured in the 2011 fellowship list of the West Bengal Academy of Science and Technology and the elected fellowship of The World Academy of Sciences reached him in 2012, followed by fellowships of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers in 2013 and the National Academy of Sciences, India in 2014. The Department of Science and Technology selected him for the J. C. Bose National fellowship in 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32042569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32042569", "title": "Stephany Griffith-Jones", "text": "Stephany Griffith-Jones\n\nStephany Griffith-Jones (born June 5, 1947) is an economist specialising in international finance and development, with emphasis on reform of the international financial system, specifically in relation to financial regulation, global governance and international capital flows. She is currently financial markets director at the Initiative for Policy Dialogue, based at Columbia University in New York and associate fellow at the Overseas Development Institute. Previously she was professorial fellow at the Institute of Development Studies at Sussex University. She has held the position of deputy director of International Finance at the Commonwealth Secretariat and has worked at the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs and in the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean. She started her career in 1970 at the Central Bank of Chile. Before joining the Institute of Development Studies, she worked at Barclays Bank International in the UK. She has acted as senior consultant to governments in Eastern Europe and Latin America and to many international agencies, including the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the European Commission, UNICEF, UNDP and United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. She was also a member of the Warwick Commission on international financial reform. She has published over 20 books and written many scholarly and journalistic articles. Her latest book, edited jointly with José Antonio Ocampo and Joseph Stiglitz, \"Time for the Visible Hand, Lessons from the 2008 crisis\", was published in 2010.\n\nGriffith-Jones has contributed to research and policy suggestions on how to make the domestic and international financial system more stable so it can better serve the needs of inclusive economic development and the real economy. One of her first articles, \"The Growth of Multinational Banking, the Euro-currency market and their effects on developing countries\" in the Journal of Development Studies, published in 1980, warned of the risk of excessive international bank lending to developing economies.\n\nHer 1986 book with Osvaldo Sunkel, \"Debt and Development Crises in Latin America: The End of An Illusion\", showed the negative effects of the 1980s Latin American debt crisis on the region's economic development. She was an early advocate of debt relief in Latin America and Sub-saharan Africa.\n\nWriting with Ricardo Ffrench-Davis in the 1990s she contributed to the debate on how Latin America could curb and manage volatile capital flows. She again warned of the risks of costly financial crises if sufficient measures such as capital controls were not implemented.\n\nAfter several financial crises, mainly in developing countries, she started in the mid-1990s to advocate capital flow regulations in capital source countries as a way to curb excessive and volatile capital flows. She believed this would reduce the risk of major reversals of capital flows and the financial crises that result from them. This is further discussed in her 1998 book \"Global Capital Flows, should they be regulated?\"\n\nIn the discussion on reform of the international financial architecture she contributed to the analysis of crisis prevention, especially through financial regulation and more effective financial crisis management. For example, she advocated special drawing rights issues by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) as a means to provide official liquidity when private capital flows fall sharply. She also advocated expanded and less conditional IMF lending so countries do not have to unnecessarily adjust their economies, especially in the face of financial crises or other external shocks.\n\nWriting with José Antonio Ocampo since the late 1990s they expanded the concept of counter-cyclical reform of the international financial system to help stabilise capital flows and domestic private lending. The aim was to avoid frequent costly crises, facilitate macro-economic management and to achieve stable and inclusive economic growth in developing countries.\n\nShe has worked on practical policy applications of these ideas. She has advocated reform of compensatory financing at the IMF in the face of external shocks to make it larger, speedier and with less conditionality. Similarly she was an early supporter of expanding development banks - nationally, regionally and multilaterally - and their role in counter-cyclical lending. She has also advocated the issue of GDP-linked bonds as a counter-cyclical mechanism to reduce the risk of financial crises. She has long supported the idea of counter-cyclical regulation. These and other practical measures are aimed at reforming the financial system so that it supports stable inclusive economic growth without costly financial crises.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "878711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=878711", "title": "Wendy Beckett", "text": "Wendy Beckett\n\nWendy Beckett (born 25 February 1930), better known as Sister Wendy, is a British religious sister, hermit, consecrated virgin, and art historian who became well known internationally during the 1990s when she presented a series of documentaries for the BBC on the history of art. Her programmes, such as \"Sister Wendy's Odyssey\" and \"Sister Wendy's Grand Tour,\" often drew a 25 percent share of the British viewing audience. In 1997, Sister Wendy made her U.S. debut on public television and that same year \"The New York Times\" described her as \"a sometime hermit who is fast on her way to becoming the most unlikely and famous art critic in the history of television.\" As of September 2018, segments of these shows are still being aired on some PBS channels in the U.S.\n\nBeckett was born in South Africa, and raised in Edinburgh, Scotland, where her father was studying medicine. In 1946, she entered the Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur, a Roman Catholic congregation of Religious Sisters dedicated to education. She was sent to England where she completed her novitiate and then studied at St Anne's College, Oxford where she was awarded a congratulatory first class honours degree in English Literature.\n\nOutside her academic work, she lived in a convent which maintained the strict code of silence typical in convents prior to the reforms following the Second Vatican Council (1962–65). After attending the Notre Dame College of Education (Liverpool) and earning a teaching diploma in 1954, she returned to South Africa to teach at Notre Dame Convent, a school for girls in Constantia, Cape Town, where she taught English and Latin. Later she moved to Johannesburg where she was appointed the superior of the local convent, while she also lectured at the University of the Witwatersrand. \n\nIn 1970, health problems forced Beckett to abandon teaching and to return to England. She obtained papal permission to leave her congregation and to become a consecrated virgin and hermit. She began living in a caravan (towed trailer) on the grounds of a Carmelite monastery at Quidenham, Norfolk, and her caravan was later replaced by a mobile home. Besides receiving the Carmelite prioress and a nun who brings her provisions, she dedicates her life solely to solitude and prayer, but allotting two hours of work per day to earn her living.\n\nSister Wendy spent many years translating Medieval Latin scripts before deciding, in 1980, to pursue art. Her first book, \"Contemporary Women Artists,\" was published in 1988\". Sister Wendy Contemplates Saint Paul in Art\" was published in 2008 to celebrate the Year of Saint Paul. In May 2009, \"Encounters with God: In Quest of the Ancient Icons of Mary\" was published, which follows Beckett's pilgrimage to see the earliest icons of Mary which had survived the Byzantine Iconoclasm. Beckett continued writing about her interest in icons in the second volume of her \"Sister Wendy Contemplates\" series, published in July 2011. This book, entitled \"The Iconic Jesus\", takes the reader through scenes from the New Testament, accompanied by Sister Wendy's reflections. Her next book, published in 2011, \"The Christ Journey\", consists of her commentaries on the artwork of Greg Tricker.\n\nWhen Beckett required medical treatment as an outpatient at a local hospital, the television chef Delia Smith, a Roman Catholic convert, volunteered, through a mutual friend, to drive her there each week. Smith also drove her around the country to meet the artists when Beckett was writing her book about contemporary women artists. Through this the two became good friends.\n\nHaving overheard her commentary while attending an art exhibit, a film crew asked to videotape her. This brought her to the attention of a BBC producer and led, in 1992, to the debut \"Sister Wendy’s Odyssey\".\n\nIn 2007 Beckett was asked, \"You've spoken out about gay marriage. How do you balance what you believe with what you have sworn to uphold?\" She replied:\nBeckett has narrated the following documentaries:\n\nand also an audio commentary for tourists to the Sistine Chapel:\n\nAdditionally she features in the following: \n\nA musical, \"Postcards from God: The Sister Wendy Musical\", was written by Marcus Reeves and Beccy Smith and performed at the Jermyn Street Theatre in the West End in 2007 and Hackney Empire Studio Theatre in 2008.\n\nAs a TV presenter, she is known for having a distinctive speech impediment which affects her pronunciation of R's.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5530003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5530003", "title": "William Wohlforth", "text": "William Wohlforth\n\nWilliam Curti Wohlforth (born 1959) is the Daniel Webster Professor of Government in the Dartmouth College Department of Government, of which he was chair for three academic years (2006-2009). He is the author of \"Elusive Balance: Power and Perceptions during the Cold War\" (Cornell, 1993) and editor of \"Witnesses to the End of the Cold War\" (Johns Hopkins, 1996) and \"Cold War Endgame: Oral History, Analysis, and Debates\" (Penn State, 2003). \nWohlforth published a seminal article in 1999, challenging the common knowledge at the time that US supremacy following the end of the Cold War is expected to be short-lived.\nHe is linked to the Neoclassical realism-school and known for his work on American unipolarity, especially in collaboration with Stephen Brooks. Together they have published several articles and a book, \"World Out of Balance: International Relations Theory and the Challenge of American Primacy\".\nWohlforth was Editor-in-chief of Security Studies (journal) during 2008-2011.\n\nWohlforth received his bachelor's degree in International Relations (summa cum laude) from Beloit College. He went on to receive his Master's and PhD from Yale University in International Relations as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22774548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22774548", "title": "Yevgeny Dzhugashvili", "text": "Yevgeny Dzhugashvili\n\nYevgeny Yakovlevich Dzhugashvili (; 10 January 1936 – 22 December 2016) was a Soviet Air Force colonel. He was the son of Yakov Dzhugashvili, the eldest son of Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, and gained notice as a defender of his grandfather's reputation. In the 1999 elections of the Russian State Duma, he was one of the faces of the Stalin Bloc – For the USSR, a league of communist parties. He resided in Georgia, his grandfather's homeland.\n\nIn September 2009, Dzhugashvili made international headlines when he sued the Russian newspaper \"Novaya Gazeta\" after the magazine published an article claiming his grandfather personally signed execution orders against civilians. On 13 October 2009, the Russian court rejected Dzhugashvili's case, stating that its reasons would be made public at a later date. Dzhugasvili was given five days to appeal.\n\nIn January 2015, responding to Russian President Vladimir Putin’s macho acts in a video, where he appears shirtless and is seen taming and riding a horse, Dzhugashvili said it is \"all a publicity stunt and only showed how the president was leading the country without brains\". \"The Independent\" additionally stated he had said \"the mess in Russia would have been avoided if Stalin had lived for five more years\".\n\n"}
