{"id": "3426888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3426888", "title": "A. M. Azahari", "text": "A. M. Azahari\n\nSheikh Azahari bin Sheikh Mahmud (3 September 1928 – 20 April 2002), better known as A.M. Azahari, was a Brunei politician turned rebel. \n\nBorn of mixed Arab-Malay heritage in Labuan, he was educated in Java and later fought against the Dutch there. He was the leader of the Brunei People's Party which sought to reduce the power of Sultan Omar Ali Saifuddin III to a constitutional monarch during the Brunei Revolt in 1962.\n\nAzahari's party won all 16 elected seats in the 33-member legislative council and as a left-leaning politician, Azahari strongly objected to the Sultan's idea for Brunei's membership in the Federation of Malaysia, along with British North Borneo (which was later renamed to Sabah), Sarawak and Singapore.\n\nThe idea of the North Kalimantan was originally proposed by Azahari, who had forged links with Sukarno's nationalist movement, together with Ahmad Zaidi Adruce, in Java in the 1940s. The idea supported and propagated the unification of all Borneo territories under British rule to form an independent leftist North Kalimantan state. \n\nAzahari personally favoured Brunei's independence and merging with British North Borneo and Sarawak to form the federation with the Sultan of Brunei as the constitutional monarch.\n\nHowever, the Brunei People’s Party was in favour of joining Malaysia on the condition it was as the unified three territories of northern Borneo with their own Sultan, and hence was strong enough to resist domination by Malaya, Singapore, Malay administrators or Chinese merchants.\n\nThe North Kalimantan (or Kalimantan Utara) proposal was seen as a post-decolonisation alternative by local opposition against the Malaysia plan. Local opposition throughout the Borneo territories was primarily based on economic, political, historical and cultural differences between the Borneo states and Malaya, as well as the refusal to be subjected under peninsular political domination.\n\nDuring the Brunei Revolt, Azahari was in Manila and managed to avoid capture by British and Commonwealth forces that help quell the revolt. He was even involved in the Limbang raid.\n\nAfter his defeat, Azahari fled to Jakarta where he was granted asylum by President Sukarno in 1963 and lived in Bogor, West Java. A. M. Azahari later died in 2002 in Bogor, Indonesia. He was 73.\n\nHe is survived by a wife and more than 10 children. Azahari was the strong voice against the proposal by then Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman Putra to merge Malaya, Sabah, Sarawak and Brunei to form Malaysia. \n\nInstead, Azahari, who led BPP from the time it was formed in 1956 to when the party was disbanded in 1962, proposed the formation of a unified state consisting of Brunei, Sarawak and North Borneo.\n\n"}
{"id": "33676205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33676205", "title": "CasaPound", "text": "CasaPound\n\nCasaPound Italy (, CPI; \"House of Pound\") is a neo-fascist political party in Italy born as a political movement arising from the squatting of a state-owned building in the neighbourhood of Esquilino in Rome on 26 December 2003. \n\nSubsequently, the phenomenon spread with other instances of squatting, demonstrations, and various initiatives, becoming a political movement. \n\nIn June 2008, CasaPound therefore constituted an \"association of social promotion\" and assumed the current name CasaPound Italy – CPI; the party's symbol is the \"Arrowed Turtle\".\n\nThe first illegal occupation made using the name CasaPound was on 26 December 2003 in Rome, by a group of young people referring to the ONC/OSA area (acronym for \"Non-Compliant Occupations and Occupations with a Housing Purpose\"), and coming from previous experience of CasaMontag at the gates of Rome. The building, a former government building in via Napoleone III, later became the national headquarters of the movement and the association. In 2010, 23 families and a total of 82 people lived in CasaPound. \n\nPreviously, CasaPound was associated with Tricolour Flame until 2008 but now has its own movement, CasaPound Italy, extending all over Italy with many social centres. While CPI does not recognize the classic definitions of right and left, it is commonly placed in the view of the political groups and movements of the Italian radical right. Casapound is generally self-defined by its followers Third Position, however.\n\nIn 2011 it was estimated that CasaPound Italy had 5,000 members, while in 2017 they reached 6,000.\n\nOn 13 November 2017, Simone Di Stefano was elected secretary and Prime Minister candidate for the 2018 general election.\n\nOne feature of this movement, according to sociologist Emanuele Toscano, is to present a different interpretation of fascism aimed at overcoming the dichotomy of right-left. The political position of CasaPound is based on the fascist Third Position, definited as \"extreme-upper-centre\" by the movement itself.\n\nThe name, inspired by the poet Ezra Pound, refers to his \"Cantos\" against usury, criticisms of the economic positions of both capitalism and Marxism, and his membership of the Italian Social Republic. It also gives particular attention to the Manifesto of Verona, the Labour Charter of 1927 and social legislation of fascism. There has been collaboration with the identitarian movement which propagates a white, Christian Europe. The movement also claim the legacy of far-left figures, like Che Guevara and Hugo Chávez.\n\nOn social and domestic issues, CasaPound has a strong anti-immigration rhetoric, but lack of homogeneity on other themes. In January 2016, many members of the movement participated in the Family Day, supporting the traditional family idea. In 2017, the establishment of CasaPound expressed support to the same-sex marriage, advance directive and improvement of the welfare state. The party supports abortion rights. Many activists of the movement also expressed antisemitic and xenophobic rhetoric, but CasaPound refuses both and expels members who support these ideas.\n\nOn foreign policy, CasaPound is critical of the European Union, instead supporting a communitarian-nationalist Europe. The Movement is both anti-American and anti-Zionist. The movement also started a cooperation with the Lebanese anti-imperialist, anti-Zionist Hezbollah organization.\n\nThe social centre has its own musical band, Zetazeroalfa, an association of civil protection and promotes sports (hiking, parachuting, diving and other disciplines), union activities, and recreational activities, including a theater company, web radio, web television and a monthly magazine.\n\nCasaPound has promoted initiatives outside the Italian territory through its non-profit organization Solidarité Identités. The activities of the movement have been the subject of attention by some foreign media.\n\nFrom the period of activity of the first social centre then were organized and cultural meetings with several guests, including writer Nicolai Lilin, the LGBT deputy Paola Concia, an ex-Red Brigades Valerio Morucci, and the Chinese community.\n\nThe main CasaPound political proposal is the so-called \"Mutuo Sociale\" (\"Social Mortgage\"), as a response to the problem of housing which, according to official data, involving approximately 23,000 households throughout Italy. In October 2011, the Lazio Region officially approved it within its \"House Plan\".\n\nStarting with the 2011 elections CasaPound presented their candidates in local elections in civic lists or centre-right and succeeded in electing its representatives. At regional and national elections of 2013 CasaPound Italy announced that it will present its civic lists throughout Italy.\n\nIn 2006, the movement that arose around the first community centre was endowed with its student organization, under the name Students' Block (). Francesco Polacchi is the General Secretary of Students' Block.\n\nTheir logo resembles that of the British Union of Fascists.\n\nQuestions have been submitted by parliamentarians of the Democratic Party about fascist propaganda and the violence of the student movement.\n\nOver the years the leaders of CasaPound Italy have been invited to explain its “political model” in many of the major European capitals (Paris, Madrid, London, Lisbon, Brussels) and the organization has been the subject of some reports by foreign media.\n\nIn 2011 the Finnish Resistance Movement also invited members of CasaPound to a seminar in Helsinki. This shows an ability of the European nationalists to organize beyond ideological differences. The Finnish Resistance Movement represents national socialism. The Finnish Security Intelligence Service researched the connections of the Finnish Resistance Movement to CasaPound after the 2011 Florence shootings.\n\nThe party's choice of American poet Ezra Pound as a symbol of the movement has caused controversy with his daughter, Mary de Rachewiltz, who claimed it distorts the meaning of Pound's work and represents a \"misappropriation\" of his image, despite Pound's stated support for fascism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15844234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15844234", "title": "Citizens' Group on Electoral Process", "text": "Citizens' Group on Electoral Process\n\nThe Citizens' Group on Electoral Process (CGEP) is a Pakistani organisation created to ensure that free, fair and credible elections take place in the country. The first Chairman of the CGEP was Chief Justice (R) Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui\n"}
{"id": "50366425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50366425", "title": "Collective enfranchisement", "text": "Collective enfranchisement\n\nCollective enfranchisement is a legal term in English property law used to describe a process whereby leasholders of a block of flats of apartments can buy out their freeholder. The right to collective enfranchisement was granted by the Leasehold Reform Housing and Urban Development Act 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "43274722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43274722", "title": "Communist era", "text": "Communist era\n\nA communist era refers to a sustained period of national government by a single party following the philosophy of Marxism–Leninism. Many countries have experienced such a period of Communist rule.\n\nThe Communist Party of China emerged as the dominant political entity in mainland China following the Chinese Civil War of 1927–1949. On October 1, 1949, Mao Zedong declared the People's Republic of China from atop Tiananmen.\n\nFollowing the 1953–1959 Cuban Revolution, the new government led by Fidel Castro transitioned the country into a one-party state, with all meaningful opposition media closed to transferred to state control by the end of 1960. In 1976 a national referendum ratified a new constitution, with 97.7% in favour, which secured the Communist Party's central role in governing Cuba.\n\nCommunist rule in Laos began in March 1975 after the Khmer Rouge army took power with support of the North Vietnamese after the Fall of Saigon and the end of the Vietnam War. In December 1975 King Sisavang Vatthana was forced to abdicate and the Lao People's Democratic Republic was pronounced, and a very authoritarian system introduced – non-communist newspapers were closed, and a large-scale purge of the civil service, army and police was launched.\n\nThe Democratic Republic of Afghanistan was founded on April 30, 1978, following the Saur Revolution. The People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan was supported by the Soviet Union through a series of internal power struggles, eventually collapsing in 1992 after the Soviet Union's dissolution.\n"}
{"id": "26864797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26864797", "title": "Deforestation in Borneo", "text": "Deforestation in Borneo\n\nDeforestation in Borneo has taken place on an industrial scale since the 1960s. Borneo, the third largest island in the world, divided between Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei, was once covered by dense tropical and subtropical rainforests.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s the forests of Borneo were leveled at a rate unprecedented in human history, burned, logged and cleared, and commonly replaced with agriculture. The deforestation continued through the 2000s at a slower pace, alongside the expansion of palm oil plantations. Half of the annual global tropical timber procurement is from Borneo. Palm oil plantations are rapidly encroaching on the last remnants of primary rainforest. Much of the forest clearance is illegal.\n\nThe World Wildlife Fund divides Borneo into a number of distinct ecoregions including the Borneo lowland rain forests which cover most of the island, with an area of , the Borneo peat swamp forests, the \"Kerangas\" or Sundaland heath forests, the Southwest Borneo freshwater swamp forests, and the Sunda Shelf mangroves. The Borneo mountain rainforests lie in the central highlands of the island, above the elevation. These areas represent habitat for many endangered species; for example, orangutans, elephants and rare endemics such as the elusive Hose's civet. The Bornean orangutan has been a critically endangered species since 2016.\n\nAs well as Borneo's importance in biodiversity conservation and as a carbon sink, the forests have significance for water security and food sovereignty for local communities of indigenous peoples.\n\nThe Malaysian states of Sarawak and Sabah (East Malaysia), in the north, occupy about 26% of the island. The forested area here shrank rapidly due to heavy logging for the Malaysian plywood industry. Two forestry researchers of Sepilok Research Centre, Sandakan, Sabah in the early 1980s identified four fast-growing hardwoods and a breakthrough on seed collection and handling of \"Acacia mangium\" and \"Gmelina arborea\", fast-growing tropical trees were planted on huge tract of formerly logged and deforested areas primarily in the northern part of Borneo Island.\n\nIndigenous peoples of Malaysia have been impacted by logging without their free, prior and informed consent in their ancestral forests. They have used peaceful demonstrations and social media advocacy to raise awareness of their rights to the forest, with some success. Questions about how and why logging licenses were granted without community consent remain unaddressed.\n\nThe rainforest was also greatly destroyed from the forest fires of 1997 to 1998, which were started by the locals to clear the forests for crops and perpetuated by an exceptionally dry El Niño season during that period. During the great fire, hotspots could be seen on satellite images and the haze thus created affected the surrounding countries of Brunei, Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore. In February 2008, the Malaysian government announced the Sarawak Corridor of Renewable Energy plan to harvest the virgin hinterlands of northern Borneo. Further deforestation and destruction of the biodiversity are anticipated in the wake of logging commissions, hydroelectric dams and other mining of minerals and resources.\n\nApproximately 73% of the island is Indonesian territory; the Indonesian name for the island, Kalimantan, is used in English to refer to the Indonesian-controlled territory.\n\nTo combat overpopulation in Java, the Indonesian government started a massive transmigration (transmigrasi) of poor farmers and landless peasants into Borneo in the 1970s and 1980s, to farm the logged areas, albeit with little success as the fertility of the land has been removed with the trees and what soil remains is washed away in tropical downpours.\n\nThe Mega Rice Project was initiated in 1996 in the southern sections of Kalimantan. The goal was to turn one million hectares of \"unproductive\" and sparsely populated peat swamp forest into rice paddies in an effort to alleviate Indonesia's growing food shortage. The government made a large investment in constructing irrigation canals and removing trees. The project did not succeed, and was eventually abandoned after causing considerable damage to the environment.\n\nThe peat swamp forest in the south of Kalimantan is an unusual ecology that is home to many unique or rare species such as orangutans, as well as to slow-growing but valuable trees. The peat swamp forest is a dual ecosystem, with diverse tropical trees standing on a 10 to 12 m layer of peat - partly decayed and waterlogged plant material – which in turn covers relatively infertile soil. Peat is a major store of carbon. If broken down and burned it contributes to CO emissions, considered a source of global warming.\n\nThe water channels, and the roads and railways built for legal forestry, opened up the region to illegal forestry. In the MRP area, forest cover dropped from 64.8% in 1991 to 45.7% in 2000, and clearance has continued since then. It appears that almost all the marketable trees have now been removed from the areas covered by the MRP.\n\nIt turned out that the channels drained the peat forests rather than irrigating them. Where the forests had often flooded up to 2m deep in the rainy season, now their surface is dry at all times of the year. The government has therefore abandoned the MRP, but the drying peat is vulnerable to fires which continue to break out on a massive scale.\n\nAfter drainage, fires ravaged the area, destroying remaining forest and wildlife along with new agriculture, filling the air above Borneo and beyond with dense smoke and haze and releasing enormous quantities of CO into the atmosphere. The destruction had a major negative impact on the livelihoods of people in the area. It caused major smog-related health problems amongst half a million people, who suffered from respiratory problems.\n\nPeat forest destruction is causing sulphuric acid pollution of the rivers. In the rainy seasons, the canals are discharging acidic water with a high ratio of pyritic sulphate into rivers up to 150 km upstream from the river mouth. This may be a factor contributing to lower fish catches.\n\nA joint UK-Indonesian study of the timber industry in Indonesia as a whole in 1998 suggested that about 40% of the throughput of timber was illegal, with a value in excess of $365 million. More recent estimates, comparing legal harvesting against known domestic consumption plus exports, suggest that 88% of logging in the country is illegal in some way. Malaysia is the key transit country for illegally logged wood products from Indonesia.\n\nDeforestation in Borneo was historically low due to infertile soils, unfavourable climate, and the presence of disease. Deforestation only began in earnest during the mid-twentieth century. Industrial logging rose in the 1970s as Malaysia depleted its peninsular forests, and former Indonesian strongman President Suharto distributed large tracts of forest to cement political relationships with army generals. Thus, logging expanded significantly in the 1980s, with logging roads providing access to remote lands for settlers and developers.\n\nLogging in Borneo in the 1980s and 1990s was some of the most intensive the world has ever seen, with 60–240 cubic meters of wood being harvested per hectare versus 23 cubic meters per hectare in the Amazon. In Kalimantan for example, some 80% of lowlands went to timber concessions, including virtually all its mangrove forests. By the late 1980s, it became clear that Indonesia and Malaysia were facing a problem of timber crisis due to over-logging. Demand from timber mills was far-outstripping log production in both Malaysia and Indonesia.\n\nMost fires in Borneo are set for land-clearing purposes. While the Indonesian government has historically blamed small-scale swidden agriculturalists for fires, World Wildlife Fund notes that satellite mapping has revealed that commercial development for large-scale land conversion – in particular oil palm plantations – was the largest single cause of the infamous 1997–1998 fires. Today fires are still set annually for land clearing in agricultural areas and degraded forests. When conditions are dry, these fires can easily spread to adjacent forest land and burn out of control. Increasingly, the frequency and intensity of fires is causing political tensions in the region. Neighbouring countries, in particular Malaysia and Singapore, blame Indonesia for failing to control the fires. In turn, Indonesia accuses Malaysian firms of starting many of the fire for land-clearing process.\n\nThere is a need for a sustainable management of the forest’s resources, in particular the aspect of logging. But in order for that to materialise, there is a need to recognise that protection and conservation of the forest do not solely lie in the hands of Indonesia and/or Malaysia. It is unreasonable to assume that the few highly indebted countries that contain the majority of remaining rain forest should be responsible for single-handedly providing this global public good. It is a global effort to protect the rainforest which in turn, will then help to solve the development problems Indonesia and Malaysia face with regards to the Borneo rainforest.\n\nRecently a reforestation project in East Kalimantan has reported some success. The Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation (BOS), founded by Dr Willie Smits, bought up nearly 2000 ha of deforested degraded land in East Kalimantan that had suffered from mechanical logging, drought and severe fires and was covered in alang-alang grass (Imperata cylindrica). The intention was to restore the rainforest and provide a safe haven for rehabilitated orangutans while at the same time providing a source of income for local people. The project was given the name Samboja Lestari, which roughly translates as the \"everlasting conservation of Samboja\". Reforestation and rehabilitation is the core of the project, with hundreds of indigenous species planted. By the middle of 2006 more than 740 different tree species had been planted.\n\n"}
{"id": "8501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8501", "title": "Distributed computing", "text": "Distributed computing\n\nDistributed computing is a field of computer science that studies distributed systems. A \"distributed system\" is a system whose components are located on different networked computers, which then communicate and coordinate their actions by passing messages to one another. The components interact with one another in order to achieve a common goal. Three significant characteristics of distributed systems are: concurrency of components, lack of a global clock, and independent failure of components. Examples of distributed systems vary from SOA-based systems to massively multiplayer online games to peer-to-peer applications.\n\nA computer program that runs within a distributed system is called a distributed program (and distributed programming is the process of writing such programs). There are many different types of implementations for the message passing mechanism, including pure HTTP, RPC-like connectors and message queues.\n\n\"Distributed computing\" also refers to the use of distributed systems to solve computational problems. In \"distributed computing\", a problem is divided into many tasks, each of which is solved by one or more computers, which communicate with each other via message passing.\n\nThe word \"parallel\" in terms such as \"parallel system\", \"distributed programming\", and \"distributed algorithm\" originally referred to computer networks where individual computers were physically distributed within some geographical area. The terms are nowadays used in a much wider sense, even referring to autonomous processes that run on the same physical computer and interact with each other by message passing.\n\nWhile there is no single definition of a distributed system, the following defining properties are commonly used:\n\nA distributed system may have a common goal, such as solving a large computational problem; the user then perceives the collection of autonomous processors as a unit. Alternatively, each computer may have its own user with individual needs, and the purpose of the distributed system is to coordinate the use of shared resources or provide communication services to the users.\n\nOther typical properties of distributed systems include the following:\n\nDistributed systems are groups of networked computers, which have the same goal for their work.\nThe terms \"concurrent computing\", \"parallel computing\", and \"distributed computing\" have a lot of overlap, and no clear distinction exists between them. The same system may be characterized both as \"parallel\" and \"distributed\"; the processors in a typical distributed system run concurrently in parallel. Parallel computing may be seen as a particular tightly coupled form of distributed computing, and distributed computing may be seen as a loosely coupled form of parallel computing. Nevertheless, it is possible to roughly classify concurrent systems as \"parallel\" or \"distributed\" using the following criteria:\nThe figure on the right illustrates the difference between distributed and parallel systems. Figure (a) is a schematic view of a typical distributed system; the system is represented as a network topology in which each node is a computer and each line connecting the nodes is a communication link. Figure (b) shows the same distributed system in more detail: each computer has its own local memory, and information can be exchanged only by passing messages from one node to another by using the available communication links. Figure (c) shows a parallel system in which each processor has a direct access to a shared memory.\n\nThe situation is further complicated by the traditional uses of the terms parallel and distributed \"algorithm\" that do not quite match the above definitions of parallel and distributed \"systems\" (see below for more detailed discussion). Nevertheless, as a rule of thumb, high-performance parallel computation in a shared-memory multiprocessor uses parallel algorithms while the coordination of a large-scale distributed system uses distributed algorithms.\n\nThe use of concurrent processes that communicate by message-passing has its roots in operating system architectures studied in the 1960s. The first widespread distributed systems were local-area networks such as Ethernet, which was invented in the 1970s.\n\nARPANET, the predecessor of the Internet, was introduced in the late 1960s, and ARPANET e-mail was invented in the early 1970s. E-mail became the most successful application of ARPANET, and it is probably the earliest example of a large-scale distributed application. In addition to ARPANET, and its successor, the Internet, other early worldwide computer networks included Usenet and FidoNet from the 1980s, both of which were used to support distributed discussion systems.\n\nThe study of distributed computing became its own branch of computer science in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The first conference in the field, Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC), dates back to 1982, and its counterpart International Symposium on Distributed Computing (DISC) was first held in Ottawa in 1985 as the International Workshop on Distributed Algorithms on Graphs.\n\nVarious hardware and software architectures are used for distributed computing. At a lower level, it is necessary to interconnect multiple CPUs with some sort of network, regardless of whether that network is printed onto a circuit board or made up of loosely coupled devices and cables. At a higher level, it is necessary to interconnect processes running on those CPUs with some sort of communication system.\n\nDistributed programming typically falls into one of several basic architectures: client–server, three-tier, \"n\"-tier, or peer-to-peer; or categories: loose coupling, or tight coupling.\n\n\nAnother basic aspect of distributed computing architecture is the method of communicating and coordinating work among concurrent processes. Through various message passing protocols, processes may communicate directly with one another, typically in a master/slave relationship. Alternatively, a \"database-centric\" architecture can enable distributed computing to be done without any form of direct inter-process communication, by utilizing a shared database.\n\nReasons for using distributed systems and distributed computing may include:\n\nExamples of distributed systems and applications of distributed computing include the following:\n\nMany tasks that we would like to automate by using a computer are of question–answer type: we would like to ask a question and the computer should produce an answer. In theoretical computer science, such tasks are called computational problems. Formally, a computational problem consists of \"instances\" together with a \"solution\" for each instance. Instances are questions that we can ask, and solutions are desired answers to these questions.\n\nTheoretical computer science seeks to understand which computational problems can be solved by using a computer (computability theory) and how efficiently (computational complexity theory). Traditionally, it is said that a problem can be solved by using a computer if we can design an algorithm that produces a correct solution for any given instance. Such an algorithm can be implemented as a computer program that runs on a general-purpose computer: the program reads a problem instance from input, performs some computation, and produces the solution as output. Formalisms such as random access machines or universal Turing machines can be used as abstract models of a sequential general-purpose computer executing such an algorithm.\n\nThe field of concurrent and distributed computing studies similar questions in the case of either multiple computers, or a computer that executes a network of interacting processes: which computational problems can be solved in such a network and how efficiently? However, it is not at all obvious what is meant by \"solving a problem\" in the case of a concurrent or distributed system: for example, what is the task of the algorithm designer, and what is the concurrent or distributed equivalent of a sequential general-purpose computer?\n\nThe discussion below focuses on the case of multiple computers, although many of the issues are the same for concurrent processes running on a single computer.\n\nThree viewpoints are commonly used:\n\n\nIn the case of distributed algorithms, computational problems are typically related to graphs. Often the graph that describes the structure of the computer network \"is\" the problem instance. This is illustrated in the following example.\n\nConsider the computational problem of finding a coloring of a given graph \"G\". Different fields might take the following approaches:\n\nWhile the field of parallel algorithms has a different focus than the field of distributed algorithms, there is a lot of interaction between the two fields. For example, the Cole–Vishkin algorithm for graph coloring was originally presented as a parallel algorithm, but the same technique can also be used directly as a distributed algorithm.\n\nMoreover, a parallel algorithm can be implemented either in a parallel system (using shared memory) or in a distributed system (using message passing). The traditional boundary between parallel and distributed algorithms (choose a suitable network vs. run in any given network) does not lie in the same place as the boundary between parallel and distributed systems (shared memory vs. message passing).\n\nIn parallel algorithms, yet another resource in addition to time and space is the number of computers. Indeed, often there is a trade-off between the running time and the number of computers: the problem can be solved faster if there are more computers running in parallel (see speedup). If a decision problem can be solved in polylogarithmic time by using a polynomial number of processors, then the problem is said to be in the class NC. The class NC can be defined equally well by using the PRAM formalism or Boolean circuits—PRAM machines can simulate Boolean circuits efficiently and vice versa.\n\nIn the analysis of distributed algorithms, more attention is usually paid on communication operations than computational steps. Perhaps the simplest model of distributed computing is a synchronous system where all nodes operate in a lockstep fashion. This model is commonly known as the LOCAL model. During each \"communication round\", all nodes in parallel (1) receive the latest messages from their neighbours, (2) perform arbitrary local computation, and (3) send new messages to their neighbors. In such systems, a central complexity measure is the number of synchronous communication rounds required to complete the task.\n\nThis complexity measure is closely related to the diameter of the network. Let \"D\" be the diameter of the network. On the one hand, any computable problem can be solved trivially in a synchronous distributed system in approximately 2\"D\" communication rounds: simply gather all information in one location (\"D\" rounds), solve the problem, and inform each node about the solution (\"D\" rounds).\n\nOn the other hand, if the running time of the algorithm is much smaller than \"D\" communication rounds, then the nodes in the network must produce their output without having the possibility to obtain information about distant parts of the network. In other words, the nodes must make globally consistent decisions based on information that is available in their \"local D-neighbourhood\". Many distributed algorithms are known with the running time much smaller than \"D\" rounds, and understanding which problems can be solved by such algorithms is one of the central research questions of the field. Typically an algorithm which solves a problem in polylogarithmic time in the network size is considered efficient in this model.\n\nAnother commonly used measure is the total number of bits transmitted in the network (cf. communication complexity). The features of this concept are typically captured with the CONGEST(B) model, which similarly defined as the LOCAL model but where single messages can only contain B bits.\n\nTraditional computational problems take the perspective that we ask a question, a computer (or a distributed system) processes the question for a while, and then produces an answer and stops. However, there are also problems where we do not want the system to ever stop. Examples of such problems include the dining philosophers problem and other similar mutual exclusion problems. In these problems, the distributed system is supposed to continuously coordinate the use of shared resources so that no conflicts or deadlocks occur.\n\nThere are also fundamental challenges that are unique to distributed computing. The first example is challenges that are related to \"fault-tolerance\". Examples of related problems include consensus problems, Byzantine fault tolerance, and self-stabilisation.\n\nA lot of research is also focused on understanding the \"asynchronous\" nature of distributed systems:\nElection\n\n\"Coordinator election\" (or \"leader election\") is the process of designating a single process as the organizer of some task distributed among several computers (nodes). Before the task is begun, all network nodes are either unaware which node will serve as the \"coordinator\" (or leader) of the task, or unable to communicate with the current coordinator. After a coordinator election algorithm has been run, however, each node throughout the network recognizes a particular, unique node as the task coordinator.\n\nThe network nodes communicate among themselves in order to decide which of them will get into the \"coordinator\" state. For that, they need some method in order to break the symmetry among them. For example, if each node has unique and comparable identities, then the nodes can compare their identities, and decide that the node with the highest identity is the coordinator.\n\nThe definition of this problem is often attributed to LeLann, who formalized it as a method to create a new token in a token ring network in which the token has been lost.\n\nCoordinator election algorithms are designed to be economical in terms of total bytes transmitted, and time. The algorithm suggested by Gallager, Humblet, and Spira for general undirected graphs has had a strong impact on the design of distributed algorithms in general, and won the Dijkstra Prize for an influential paper in distributed computing.\n\nMany other algorithms were suggested for different kind of network graphs, such as undirected rings, unidirectional rings, complete graphs, grids, directed Euler graphs, and others. A general method that decouples the issue of the graph family from the design of the coordinator election algorithm was suggested by Korach, Kutten, and Moran.\n\nIn order to perform coordination, distributed systems employ the concept of coordinators. The coordinator election problem is to choose a process from among a group of processes on different processors in a distributed system to act as the central coordinator. Several central coordinator election algorithms exist.\n\nSo far the focus has been on \"designing\" a distributed system that solves a given problem. A complementary research problem is \"studying\" the properties of a given distributed system.\n\nThe halting problem is an analogous example from the field of centralised computation: we are given a computer program and the task is to decide whether it halts or runs forever. The halting problem is undecidable in the general case, and naturally understanding the behaviour of a computer network is at least as hard as understanding the behaviour of one computer.\n\nHowever, there are many interesting special cases that are decidable. In particular, it is possible to reason about the behaviour of a network of finite-state machines. One example is telling whether a given network of interacting (asynchronous and non-deterministic) finite-state machines can reach a deadlock. This problem is PSPACE-complete, i.e., it is decidable, but it is not likely that there is an efficient (centralised, parallel or distributed) algorithm that solves the problem in the case of large networks.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "594501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=594501", "title": "E-democracy", "text": "E-democracy\n\nE-democracy (a combination of the words electronic and democracy), also known as digital democracy or Internet democracy, incorporates 21st-century information and communications technology to promote democracy. It is a form of government in which all adult citizens are presumed to be eligible to participate equally in the proposal, development, and creation of laws. E-democracy encompasses social, economic and cultural conditions that enable the free and equal practice of political self-determination.\n\nThe spread of free information through the internet has encouraged freedom and human development. The internet is used for promoting human rights—including free speech, religion, expression, peaceful assembly, government accountability, and the right of knowledge and understanding—that support democracy. An E-democracy process has been recently proposed in a scientific article for solving a question that has crucial importance for all humans in the 21st century: \"As planet Earth citizens, will you stop the climate from warming?\" The author proposes to use a cell-phone for answering this question during the Olympic Games in Pyeongchang 2018 and Tokyo 2020.\n\nThe Internet has several attributes that encourage thinking about it as a democratic medium. The lack of centralized control makes censorship difficult. There are other parallels in the social design in the early days of the internet, such as the strongly libertarian support for free speech, the sharing culture that permeated nearly all aspects of Internet use, and the outright prohibition on commercial use by the National Science Foundation. Another example is the unmediated mass communication on the internet, such as through newsgroups, chat rooms, and MUDs. This communication ignored the boundaries established with broadcast media, such as newspapers or radio, and with one-to-one media, such as letters or landline telephones. Finally, because the Internet is a massive digital network with open standards, universal and inexpensive access to a wide variety of communication media and models could actually be attained.\n\nSome practical issues involving e-democracy include: effective participation; voting equality at decision stage; enlightened understanding; control of the agenda; and inclusiveness. Systemic issues may include cyber-security concerns and protection of sensitive data from third parties.\n\nStrictly speaking, modern democracies are generally representative democracies, where the people elect representatives to make laws and policies; they are not direct democracies, where the people decide matters directly. They may be referred to as more or less \"democratic\" depending on how well the government represents the will of the people. A shift to E-democracy would resemble a change in the form of government (from Republic to democracy) as much as an improvement in the existing system.\n\nDemocracy in America has become reliant on the Internet because the Internet is a primary source of information for most Americans. The Internet educates people on democracy, helping people stay up to date with what is happening in their government. Online advertising is becoming more popular for political candidates and group's opinions on propositions. The Internet is the first place that most people look for information and often the only place that they look. The reason for this, and especially for younger voters, is that it is easy and reliable when used correctly, thus lowering an individual's workload. This gives the user a sense of instant gratification that is crucial in the era of multitasking on computers. If the information is not easy to find then most people will not look for it. Because the Internet is so user-friendly, people are more likely to research and get involved in politics. The Internet allows people to express their opinions about the government through an alias, anonymously and judgment free. Since a person can express himself anonymously and from the comfort of his own home, the Internet gives incentive for people to participate in the government. Because of the number of people who use the Internet, a person who puts his ideas on a high-traffic website is capable of having influence over a large number of people.\n\nThe Internet enables citizens to get and post information about politicians, and it allows those politicians to get advice from the people in larger numbers. This collective decision making and problem-solving gives more power to the citizens and helps politicians make decisions faster. This creates a more productive society that can handle problems faster and more efficiently. Getting feedback and advice from the American population is a large part of a politician's job and the Internet allows them to function effectively with larger numbers of people's opinions. With this heightened ability to communicate with the public, the American government is able to function more capably and effectively as a Democracy.\n\nGeneration X became disillusioned that even large-scale public protests such as the UK miners' strike (1984–1985) were seen to fail a decade before information technology became generally available to individual citizens. E-democracy is sometimes seen as a remedy to the insular nature, concentrated power, and lack of post-election accountability in traditional democratic process organized mostly around political parties. Tom Watson, the Deputy Leader of the UK Labour Party, said:\n\nIt feels like the Labour frontbench is further away from our members than at any point in our history and the digital revolution can help bring the party closer together ... I'm going to ask our NEC to see whether we can have digital branches and digital delegates to the conference. Not replacing what we do but providing an alternative platform. It's a way of organising for a different generation of people who do their politics differently, get their news differently.\n\n\"E-democracy offers greater electronic community access to political processes and policy choices. E-democracy development is connected to complex internal factors, such as political norms and citizen pressures\" and in general to the particular model of democracy implemented. E-democracy is therefore highly influenced by both internal factors to a country and by the external factors of standard innovation and diffusion theory. People are pressuring their public officials to adopt more policies that other states or countries have regarding information and news about their government online. People have all governmental information at their fingertips and easy access to contact their government officials. In this new generation where internet and networking rule everyone's daily lives, it is more convenient that people can be informed of the government and policies through this form of communication.\n\nIn Jane Fountain's (2001) \"Building the Virtual State\", she describes how this widespread e-democracy is able to connect with so many people and correlates it to the government we had before.\n\nFountain's framework provides a subtle and nuanced appreciation of the interplay of preexisting norms, procedures, and rules within bureaucracies and how these affect the introduction of new technological forms... In its most radical guise, this form of e- government would entail a radical overhaul of the modern administrative state as regular electronic consultations involving elected politicians, civil servants, pressure groups, and other affected interests become standard practice in all stages of the policy process (Sage).\n\nCities in states with Republican-controlled legislatures, high legislative professionalization, and more active professional networks were more likely to embrace e-government and e-democracy.\n\nFollowing the financial crisis of 2007–08 a number of social networks proposed demonstrations such as the Occupy movement.\n\nThe 15-M Movement started in Spain and spread to other European countries. From that emerged the Partido X (X Party) proposals in Spain.\n\nDuring the \"Arab Spring,\" online activists led uprisings in a dozen countries across North Africa and the Middle East. At first, digital media allowed pro-democracy movements to use the internet against authoritarian regimes; however, these regimes eventually worked social media into their own counter-insurgency strategies. Digital media helped to turn individualized, localized, and community-specific dissent into structured movements with a collective consciousness about both shared grievances and opportunities for action.\n\nOn January 25 of 2011, mass protests began in Cairo, Egypt, protesting the long reign of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, the high unemployment rate, government corruption, poverty, and oppression within society. This 18-day revolution did not begin with guns, violence, or protests, but rather with the creation of a single Facebook page which quickly gained the attention of thousands, and soon millions, of Egyptians, spreading into a global phenomenon. The internet empowered protesters and allowed for anyone with access to the internet be involved in the democratization process of their government. In order to have a democratic, free nation, all information that can be shared, should be shared. Protestors communicated, organized, and collaborated through the use of this technology with real time, real impacts. Technologies played an enormous role on the world stage during this time. Even when the regime eliminated all access to the Internet in a failed attempt to halt further political online forums, Google and Twitter teamed up, making a system that would get information out to the public without having access to the internet. The interactivity of media during this revolution boosted civic participation and played a monumental role in the political outcome of the revolution and the democratization of an entire nation.\n\nThe revolution in Egypt has been understood by some as an example of a broader trend of transforming from a system based on group control to one of \"networked individualism\". These networked societies are constructed post -\"triple revolution\" of technology, which involves a three-step process. Step one in the \"triple revolution\" is \"the turn to social networks\", step two: \"the proliferation of the far-flung, instantaneous internet\", and step three: \"the even wider proliferation of always-available mobile phones\". These elements play a key role in change through the Internet. Such technologies provide an alternative sphere that is unregulated by the government, and where construction of ideas and protests can foster without regulation. For example, In Egypt, the \"April 6 Youth Movement\" established their political group on Facebook where they called for a national strike to occur on April 6. This event was ultimately suppressed, however; the Facebook group remained, spurring the growth of other activist parties to take an online media route. The Internet in Egypt was used also to form connections with networks of people outside of their own country. The connections provided through Internet media sources, such as Twitter allowed rapid spread of the revolt to be known around the world. Specifically, more than 3 million tweets contained six popular hashtags alluring to the revolt, for example, #Egypt and #sidibouzid; further enabling the spread of knowledge and change in Egypt.\n\nThe Invisible Children's Kony 2012 video was released March 5, 2012, initiating an online grassroots campaign for the search and arrest of Joseph Kony. Invisible Children, the non-profit organization responsible for this video campaign, was founded on the mission to bring awareness to the vile actions of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), located in Central Africa, and the arrest of its leader, Joseph Kony. In the video, Jason Russell, one of the founders of Invisible Children, says that \"the problem is that 99% of the planet doesn't know who [Kony] is\" and the only way to stop him is by having enough support from the people to convince the government to continue the hunt for him. So, Invisible Children's purpose for the video was to raise awareness by making Kony famous through the ever-expanding market of social media and to use the technology we have today to bring his crimes to light.\n\nOn March 21, 2012, a group of 33 Senators introduced a resolution condemning \"the crimes against humanity\" committed by Joseph Kony and the LRA. The resolution supports the continued efforts by the US government to \"strengthen the capabilities of regional military forces deployed to protect civilians and pursue commanders of the LRA, and calls for cross-border efforts to increase civilian protection and provide assistance to populations affected by the LRA.\" Senator Lindsey Graham, a co-sponsor of the resolution stated that \"When you get 100 million Americans looking at something, you will get our attention. This YouTube sensation is gonna help the Congress be more aggressive and will do more to lead to his demise than all other action combined\".\n\nIndia Against Corruption (IAC) is an anti-corruption movement in India which was particularly prominent during the anti-corruption protests of 2011 and 2012, the central point of which was debate concerning the introduction of a Jan Lokpal bill. During that time it sought to mobilize the masses in support of their demands for a less corrupt society in India. Divisions amongst key members of the IAC's core committee eventually led to a split within the movement. Arvind Kejriwal left to form the Aam Aadmi Party, while Anna Hazare left to form Jantantra Morcha.\n\nIn December 2012, after living for seven years in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, Qadri returned to Pakistan and initiated a political campaign. Qadri called for a \"million-men\" march in Islamabad to protest against the government's corruption. On 14 January 2013, a crowd marched down the city's main avenue. Thousands of people pledged to sit-in until their demands were met. When he started the long march from Lahore about 25,000 people were with him. He told the rally in front of parliament: \"There is no Parliament; there is a group of looters, thieves and dacoits [bandits] ... Our lawmakers are the lawbreakers.\". After four days of sit-in, the Government and Qadri signed an agreement called the Islamabad Long March Declaration, which promised electoral reforms and increased political transparency. Although Qadri called for a \"million-men\" march, the estimated total present for the sit-in in Islamabad was 50,000 according to the government.\n\nE-Democracy is made possible through its role in relevancy of participation, the social construction of inclusiveness, sensitivity to the individual, and flexibility in participation. The Internet provides a sense of relevancy in participation through allowing everyone's voice to be heard and expressed. A structure of social inclusion is also provided through a wide variety of Internet sites, groups, and social networks, all representing different viewpoints and ideas. Sensitivity to the individual's needs is accomplished through the ability to express individual opinions publicly and rapidly. Finally, the Internet is an extremely flexible area of participation; it is low in cost and widely available to the public. Through these four directions, E-Democracy and the implementation of the Internet are able to play an active role in societal change.\n\nThe E-democratic process is hindered by the digital divide between active participants and those who do not participate in electronic communities. Advocates of E-democracy may advocate government moves to close this gap. The disparity e-governance and e-democracy between developed and developing worlds has been attributed to the digital divide. \nPractical objections include the digital divide between those with access and those without, as well as the opportunity cost of expenditure on e-democracy innovations. There is also skepticicsm of the amount of impact that they can make through online participation.\n\nThe government must be in a position to guarantee that online communications are secure and that they do not violate people's privacy. This is especially important when considering electronic voting. An electoral voting system is more complex than other electronic transaction systems and the authentication mechanisms employed must be able to prevent ballot rigging or the threat of rigging. This may include the use of smart cards that allow a voter's identity to be verified whilst at the same time ensuring the privacy of the vote cast. Electronic voting in Estonia is one example of a method to conquer the privacy-identity problem inherent in internet voting systems. However, the objective should be to provide equivalence with the security and privacy of current manual systems.\n\nIn order to attract people to get involved in online consultations and discussions, the government must respond to people and actively demonstrate that there is a relationship between the citizen's engagement and policy outcome. It is also important that people are able to become involved in the process, at a time and place that is convenient to them but when their opinions will count. The government will need to ensure that the structures are in place to deal with increased participation.\n\nIn order to ensure that issues are debated in a democratic, inclusive, tolerant and productive way, the role that intermediaries and\nrepresentative organizations may play should be considered. In order to strengthen the effectiveness of the existing legal rights of access to information held by public authorities, citizens should have the right to effective public deliberation and moderation.\n\n E-democracy is the use of information and communication technologies and strategies in political and governance processes. E-democracy has the potential to overcome the traditional trade-off between the size of the group that participates in the democratic process and the depth of the will expression (see Figure). Traditionally, large group size was achieved with simple ballot voting, whereas the depth of the will expression was limited to predefined options (what's on the ballot), while depth of will expression was achieved by limiting the number of participants through representative democracy (see Table). The social media Web 2.0 revolution has shown to achieve both, large group sizes and depth of will expression, but the will expressions in social media are not structured and it is difficult (and often subjective) to make sense of them (see Table). New information processing techniques, including big data analytics and the semantic web have shown ways to make use of these possibilities for the implementation of future forms of e-democracy. For now, the process of e-democracy is carried out by technologies such as electronic mailing lists, peer-to-peer networks, collaborative software, wikis, Internet forums and blogs. \n\nE-democracy has been analyzed with regard to the different stages of the democratic process, such as \"information provision, deliberation, and participation in decision-making.\", by the hierarchical level of government, including local communities, states/regions, nations and on the global stage and by its reach and scope of involvement, such as the involvement of citizens/voters, the media, elected officials, political organizations, and governments. As such, \"its development is conditioned by such pervasive changes as increased interdependency, technological multimediation, partnership governance, and individualism.\"\n\nSocial media sites, such as Facebook, Twitter, WordPress and Blogspot, are playing an increasingly important role in democratic deliberations. The role of social media in e-democracy has been an emerging area for e-democracy, as well as related technological developments, such as argument maps and eventually, the semantic web. Another related development consists in combining the open communication of social networking with the structured communication of closed panels including experts and/or policy-makers, such as for example through modified versions of the Delphi method (HyperDelphi) to combine the open communication of self-organized virtual communities with the structured communication of closed panels, including members of the policy-community. \n\nCivic engagement includes three dimensions: political knowledge of public affairs, political trust for the political system, and political participation in influencing the government and the decision-making process. The internet aids civic engagement by providing a new avenue to interact with by governmental institutions. Proponents of E-democracy believe that governments can be much more actively engaged than presently, and encourage citizens to take their own initiative to influence decisions that will affect them.\n\nMany studies report increasing use of the internet to find political information. Between 1996 and 2002, the number of adults who reported that the internet was significant in their choices increased from about 14 to 20 percent. In 2002, nearly a quarter of the population reported having visited a website to research specific public policy issues. Studies have shown that more people visit websites that challenge their point of view than visit websites that mirror their own opinions. Sixteen percent of the population has participated in online political culture by interacting with political websites through joining campaigns, volunteering time, donating money, or participating in polls. According to a survey conducted by Philip N. Howard, almost two-thirds of the adult population in the United States has had some online experience with political news, information, or other content over the past four election cycles. They tend to reference the websites of special interest groups more than the websites of specific elected leaders, political candidates, political parties, nonpartisan groups, and local community groups.\n\nThe information capacity available on the Internet allows citizens to become more knowledgeable about government and political issues, and the interactivity of the medium allows for new forms of communication with government, i.e. elected officials and/or public servants. The posting of contact information, legislation, agendas, and policies makes government more transparent, potentially enabling more informed participation both online and offline.\n\nAccording to Matt Leighninger, the internet impacts government in two main ways, empowering individuals, and empowering groups of people. The internet gives interested citizens better access to the information which allows them to impact on public policy. Using online tools to organize, people can more easily be involved in the policy-making process of government, and this has led to increased public engagement. Social media sites support networks of people; online networks affect the political process, including causing an increase in politicians' efforts to appeal to the public in campaigns.\n\nFor e-democracy provides a forum for public discussion. An e-government process improves cooperation with the local populace and helps the government focus in upon key issues the community wants addressed. The theory is that every citizen has the opportunity to have a voice in their local government. E-democracy works in tandem with local communities and gives every citizen who wants to contribute the chance. What makes an effective e-democracy is that the citizens not only contribute to the government, but they communicate and work together to improve their own local communities.\n\nE-democracy is the use of information and communication technologies (ICT) to support the democratic decision-making processes. ICTs play a major role in organizing and informing citizens in various forms of civic engagement. ICTs are used to enhance active participation of citizens and to support the collaboration between actors for policy-making purposes within the political processes of all stages of governance.\n\nThe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development lists three main factors when it comes to ICTs promoting civic engagement. The first of these is timing; most of the civil engagement occurs during the agenda-setting in a cycle. The second key factor is tailor; this refers to the idea of how ICTs are changing in order to allow for more civic engagement. The last of these factors is integrations; integration is how new ICTs are combining the new technological ways with the traditional ways in order to gain more civic engagement.\n\nICT creates the opportunity for a government that is simultaneously more democratic and more expert by creating open online collaboration between professionals and the general public. The responsibility of gathering information and making decisions is shared between those with technological expertise and those who are professionally considered the decision-makers. Greater public participation in the collaboration of ideas and policies makes decision-making is more democratic. ICT also promotes the idea of pluralism within a democracy, bringing new issues and perspectives.\n\nRegular citizens become potential producers of political value and commentary, for example, by creating individual blogs and websites. The online political sphere can work together, like ABCNews did with their Campaign Watchdog effort, where citizens by the polls reported any rule violations perpetrated by any candidate's party.\n\nIn 2000, Candidate's for the United States presidential race frequently used their websites to encourage their voters to not only vote, but to encourage their friends to vote as well. This two-step process, encouraging an individual to vote and to tell his or her friends to vote, was just emerging at that time. Now, political involvement from a variety of social media is commonplace and civic engagement through online forums frequent. Through the use of ICTs, politically minded individuals have the opportunity to become more involved.\n\nYoung people under the age of 35, or Generation X and Generation Y, have been noted for their lack of political interest and activity. Electronic democracy has been suggested as a possible method to increase voter turnout, democratic participation, and political knowledge in youth.\n\nThe notion of youth e-citizenship seems to be caught between two distinct approaches: management and autonomy. The policy of \"targeting\" young people so that they can \"play their part\" can be read either as an encouragement of youth activism or an attempt to manage it. Autonomous e-citizens argue that despite their limited experience, youth deserve to speak for themselves on agendas of their own making. On the contrary, managed e-citizens regard young people as apprentice citizens who are in a process of transition from the immaturity of childhood to the self-possession of adulthood, and are thus incapable of contributing to politics without regulation. The Internet is another important issue, with managed e-citizens believing young people are highly vulnerable to misinformation and misdirection. The conflict between the two faces of e-citizenship is a view of democracy as an established and reasonably just system, with which young people should be encouraged to engage, and democracy as a political as well as cultural aspiration, most likely to be realized through networks in which young people engage with one another. Ultimately, strategies of accessing and influencing power are at the heart of what might first appear to be mere differences of communication styles.\n\nThe Highland Youth Voice demonstrated the attempt to increase democratic involvement, especially through online measures, in Scotland. The youth population is increasingly more prominent in governmental policy and issues in the UK. However, involvement and interest have been decreasing. In 2001 elections in the United Kingdom to Westminster, the turnout of 18- to 24-year-olds was estimated at only 40%, which can be compared to the more than 80% of 16- to 24-year-old who have accessed the internet at some time in their life. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child have promoted and stressed the need to educate the younger population as citizens of the nation in which they live in, and promote the participation and active politics which they can shape through debate and communication.\n\nThe Highland Youth Voice aims to increase the involvement of the younger generation through understanding their needs and wishes for their government, through an understanding of their views, experiences, and aspirations. Highland Youth Voice gives young Scots a chance to influence the decision makers in the Highlands.\nThe members age from 14 to 18 and the parliament as a whole is an elected body of around 100 members. They are elected directly through schools and youth forums. Through the website, those involved are able to discuss the issues important to them. The final prominent democratic aspect of the website is the elections for members, which occur every other year. These three contents of the website allow for an online forum in which members may educate themselves through Youth Voice, partake in online policy debates, or experience a model of e-democracy in the ease of online voting.\n\nCitizens' associations play an important role in the democratic process, providing a place for individuals to learn about public affairs and a source of power outside that of the state, according to theorists like Alexis de Tocqueville. Public policy researcher Hans Klein at the Georgia Institute of Technology notes that participation in such forums has a number of barriers, such as the need to meet in one place at one time. In a study of a civic association in the northeastern United States, Klein found that electronic communications greatly enhanced the ability of the organization to fulfill its mission. The lower cost of information exchange on the Internet, as well as the high level of reach that the content potentially has, makes the Internet an attractive medium for political information, particularly amongst social interest groups and parties with lower budgets.\n\nFor example, environmental or social issue groups may find the Internet an easier mechanism to increase awareness of their issues, as compared to traditional media outlets, such as television or newspapers, which require heavy financial investment. Due to all these factors, the Internet has the potential to take over certain traditional media of political communication, such as the telephone, the television, newspapers and the radio. The civil society has gradually moved into the online world.\n\nThere are many forms of association in civic society. The term \"interest group\" conventionally refers to more formal organizations that either focus on particular social groups and economic sectors, such as trade unions and business and professional associations, or on more specific issues, such as abortion, gun control, or the environment. Other traditional interest groups have well-established organizational structures and formal membership rules, and their primary orientation is toward influencing government and the policy process. Transnational advocacy networks bring together loose coalitions of these organizations under common umbrella organizations that cross national borders.\n\nNovel tools are being developed that are aimed at empowering bloggers, webmasters and owners of other social media, with the effect of moving from a \"strictly informational\" use of the Internet to using the Internet \"as a means of social organization\" not requiring top-down action. Calls to action, for instance, are a novel concept designed to allow webmasters to mobilize their viewers into action without the need for leadership. These tools are also utilized worldwide: for example, India is developing an effective blogosphere that allows internet users to state their thoughts and opinions.\n\nThe Internet may serve multiple functions for all these organizations, including lobbying elected representatives, public officials, and policy elites; networking with related associations and organizations; mobilizing organizers, activists, and members using action alerts, newsletters, and emails; raising funds and recruiting supporters; and communicating their message to the public via the traditional news media.\n\nThe Internet also plays a central role in deliberative democracy, where deliberation and access to multiple viewpoints is central in decision-making. The Internet is able to provide an opportunity for interaction and serves as a prerequisite in the deliberative process as a research tool. On the Internet, the exchange of ideas is widely encouraged through a vast number of websites, blogs, and social networking outlets, such as Twitter; all of which encourage freedom of expression. Through the Internet, information is easily accessible, and in a cost effective manner, providing access and means for change. Another fundamental feature of the Internet is its uncontrolled nature, and ability to provide all viewpoints no matter the accuracy. The freedom the Internet provides is able to foster and advocate change, crucial in E-Democracy.\n\nA recent advancement in the utilization of E-Democracy for the deliberative process is the California Report Card created by the Data and Democracy Initiative of the Center for Information Technology Research in the Interest of Society at University of California, Berkeley, together with Lt. Governor Gavin Newsom. The California Report Card, launched in January 2014, is a mobile-optimized web application designed to facilitate online deliberative democracy. After a short opinion poll on 6 timely issues, participants are invited to enter an online \"café\" where they are placed, using Principal Component Analysis, among users with similar views. They are then encouraged to engage in the deliberative process by entering textual suggestions about new political issues and grading other participants' suggestions. The California Report Card prides itself on being resistant to private agendas dominating the discussion.\n\nAnother example is openforum.com.au, an Australian non-profit eDemocracy project that invites politicians, senior public servants, academics, business people and other key stakeholders to engage in high-level policy debate.\n\nAn alternative to the SOPA and PIPA, the Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade Act (OPEN Act) is supported by Google and Facebook. The OPEN Act website Keep The Web Open provides full access to the bill. The site also incorporates user input, over 150 changes have been made by users.\n\nThe peer-to-patent project allows the public to do research and present the patent examiner with 'prior art' publications which will inform them of the novelty of the invention so that they can determine whether the invention is worthy of a patent. The community elects ten prior art pieces to be sent to the patent examiner for review. This enables the public to directly communicate with the patent examiner. This form of e-democracy is a structured environment which demands certain information from participants that aid in the decision-making process. The goal of the project is to make decision-making process is made more effective by allowing experts and civilians who work together to find solutions. Beyond citizens checking a box that reduces opinions to a few given words, citizens can participate and share ideas.\n\nAnother great hurdle in implementing e-democracy is the matter of ensuring security in internet voting systems. Viruses and malware could be used to block or redirect citizens' votes on matters of great importance; as long as that threat remains, e-democracy will not be able to diffuse throughout society. Kevin Curran and Eric Nichols of the Internet Technologies Research Group noted in 2005 that \"a secure Internet voting system is theoretically possible, but it would be the first secure networked application ever created in the history of computers.\"\n\nThrough ListServs, RSS feeds, mobile messaging, micro-blogging services and blogs, government and its agencies can share information to citizens who share common interests and concerns. Some government representatives are also beginning to use Twitter which provides them with an easy medium to inform their followers. In the state of Rhode Island, for instance, Treasurer Frank T. Caprio is offering daily tweets of the state's cash flow.\n\nA number of non-governmental sites have developed cross-jurisdiction, customer-focused applications that extract information from thousands of governmental organizations into a system that brings consistency to data across many dissimilar providers. It is convenient and cost-effective for businesses, and the public benefits by getting easy access to the most current information available without having to expend tax dollars to get it. One example of this is transparent.gov.com, a free resource for citizens to quickly identify the various open government initiatives taking place in their community or in communities across the country. A similar example is USA.gov, the official site of the United States government, which is a directory that links to every federal and state agency.\n\nE-democracy leads to a more simplified process and access to government information for public-sector agencies and citizens. For example, the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles simplified the process of certifying driver records to be admitted in county court proceedings. Indiana became the first state to allow government records to be digitally signed, legally certified and delivered electronically by using Electronic Postmark technology.\n\nThe internet has created increased government accessibility to news, policies, and contacts in the 21st century: \"In 2000 only two percent of government sites offered three or more services online; in 2007 that figure was 58 percent. In 2000, 78 percent of the states offered no on-line services; in 2007 only 14 percent were without these services (West, 2007)\"(Issuu). Direct access via email has also increased; \"In 2007, 89 percent of government sites allowed the public e-mail a public official directly rather than simply e-mailing the webmaster (West, 2007)\"(Issuu).\n\nInformation and communications technologies can be used for both democratic and anti-democratic ends.(e.g. both coercive control and participation can be fostered by digital technology) George Orwell's in his Nineteen Eighty-Four is one example of the vision of the anti-democratic use of technology.\n\nObjections to direct democracy are argued to apply to e-democracy, such as the potential for direct governance to tend towards the polarization of opinions, populism, and demagoguery.\n\nIn a nation with heavy government censorship, e-democracy could not be utilized to its full extent. Governments often implement internet crackdowns during widespread political protests. In the middle-east in 2011, for example, the multiple cases of internet blackouts were dubbed the \"Arab Net Crackdown\". The list of countries that have been reported to have initiated internet lockdowns is a long one. Libya, Egypt, Bahrain, Syria, Iran, and Yemen are all countries whose leaders implemented complete censorship of the internet in response to the plethora of pro-democracy demonstrations in their respective nations. These lockdowns were primarily put in place in order to prevent the leakage of cell phone videos that contained images of the violent government crackdown on protesters.\n\nIn a study conducted that interviewed elected officials in Austria's parliament, opinions were widely and strongly against e-democracy. They believed that the citizens were uninformed and that their only way of expressing their opinions should be to vote; sharing opinions and ideas was strictly the job of the elected.\n\nAlternatively, theories of epistemic democracy have indicated that more engagement of the populace has benefited the aggregation of knowledge and intelligence, and thus permitted democracies to track the truth better.\n\nMany Internet users believed that Internet democracy was being attacked in the United States with the introduction of H.R. 3261, Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA), in the United States House of Representatives. A Huffington Post Contributor noted that the best way to promote democracy, including keeping freedom of speech alive, is through defeating the Stop Online Piracy Act. It is important to note that SOPA was postponed indefinitely after major protests arose, including by many popular websites such as Wikipedia, which launched a site blackout on January 18, 2012. In India, a similar situation was noted at the end of 2011, when India's Communication and IT Minister Kapil Sibal suggested that offensive content may be privately \"pre-screened\" before being allowed on the Internet with no rules for redressal. However, more recent news reports quote Sibal as saying that there would be no restrictions whatsoever on the use of the Internet.\n\nThe radical shift from representative government to internet-mediated direct democracy is not likely. However, proponents believe that a \"hybrid model\" that uses the internet to allow for greater government transparency and community participation in decision-making is on the horizon. Committee selection, local town and city decisions, and otherwise people-centric decisions would be more easily facilitated. The principles of democracy are not changing so much as the tools used to uphold them. E-democracy would not be a means to implement direct democracy, but rather a tool to enable more participatory democracy as it exists now.\n\nVirtual Democracy is a global political system where people of all intelligent species and races gather to propose and vote on laws on internet forums like virtual-democracy.org and democratie-atlanta.org\n\nThis system was rediscovered by Lucian Ilea in January 2016 when he created a website with 9 domains and 63 subdomains featuring presentations of the Virtual Democracy system in both Romanian and English languages on democratie-virtuala.com and atlantia.online with the actual voting forums found on democratie-atlanta.org and virtual-democracy.org\nIn order to attract people there are sections devoted to music and film on muzica.space, pictures on e-world.site, and an online computer store found at ihl.space and ihl-data.com\n\nThe sites functioned for 2 years from January 2016 to November 2017.\n\nProponents of E-democracy sometimes envision a transition from a representative democracy to a direct democracy carried out through technological means, and see this transition as an end goal of e-democracy. In an Electronic direct democracy (EDD) (also known as open source governance or collaborative e-democracy), the people are directly involved in the legislative function by electronic means. Citizens electronically vote on legislation, author new legislation, and recall representatives (if any representatives are preserved).\n\nTechnology for supporting EDD has been researched and developed at the Florida Institute of Technology, where the technology is used with student organizations. Numerous other software development projects are underway, along with many supporting and related projects. Several of these projects are now collaborating on a cross-platform architecture, under the umbrella of the Metagovernment project.\n\nEDD as a system is not fully implemented in a political government anywhere in the world, although several initiatives are currently forming. Ross Perot was a prominent advocate of EDD when he advocated \"electronic town halls\" during his 1992 and 1996 Presidential campaigns in the United States. Switzerland, already partially governed by direct democracy, is making progress towards such a system.\nSenator On-Line, an Australian political party established in 2007, proposes to institute an EDD system so that Australians can decide which way the senators vote on each and every bill. A similar initiative was formed 2002 in Sweden where the party Direktdemokraterna, running for the Swedish parliament, offers its members the power to decide the actions of the party over all or some areas of decision, or to use a proxy with immediate recall for one or several areas.\n\nThe first mainstream direct democracy party to be registered with any country's electoral commission [checked against each country's register] is the UK's People's Administration Direct Democracy party. The People's Administration have developed and published the complete architecture for a legitimate reform to EDD [including the required Parliamentary reform process]. Established by musicians [including Alex Romane] and political activists, the People's Administration advocates using the web and telephone to enable the majority electorate to create, propose and vote upon all policy implementation. The People's Administration's blueprint has been published in various forms since 1998 and the People's Administration is the first direct democracy party to be registered in a vote-able format anywhere in the world - making the transition possible through evolution via election with legitimate majority support, instead of potentially through revolution via violence. The Direktdemokraterna party in Sweden also advocates EDD.\n\nLiquid democracy, or direct democracy with delegable proxy, would allow citizens to choose a proxy to vote on their behalf while retaining the right to cast their own vote on legislation. The voting and the appointment of proxies could be done electronically. Taking this further, the proxies could form proxy chains, in which if A appoints B and B appoints C, and neither A nor B vote on a proposed bill but C does, C's vote will count for all three of them. Citizens could also rank their proxies in order of preference, so that if their first choice proxy fails to vote, their vote can be cast by their second-choice proxy.\n\nOne proposed form of e-democracy is \"wikidemocracy\", with a government legislature whose codex of laws was an editable wiki, like Wikipedia. J Manuel Feliz-Teixeira believes we have the resources to implement wikidemocracy today. He envisions a wiki-system in which there would be three wings of legislative, executive and judiciary roles for which every citizen could have a voice with free access to the wiki and a personal ID to continuously reform policies until the last day of December (when all votes would be counted). Advantages to wikidemocracy include a no-cost system with the removal of elections, no need for parliament or representatives because citizens directly represent themselves, and ease of access to voice one's opinion. However, there are obstacles, uncertainties and disagreements. First, the digital divide and low quality of education can be deterrents to achieve the full potential of a wikidemocracy. Similarly, there is a diffusion of innovation in response to new technologies in which some people readily adopt novel ways and others at the opposite end of the spectrum reject them or are slow to adapt. It is also uncertain how secure this type of democracy would be because we would have to trust that the system administrator would have a high level of integrity to protect the votes saved to the public domain. Lastly, Peter Levine agrees that wikidemocracy would increase discussion on political and moral issues, but he disagrees with Feliz-Teixeira who argues that wikidemocracy would remove the need for representatives and formal governmental structures.\n\nWikidemocracy is also used to mean more limited instantiations of e-democracy, such as in Argentina in August 2011, where the polling records of the presidential election were made available to the public in online form, for vetting. The term has also been used in a more general way to refer to the democratic values and environments offered by wikis.\n\nSome in Finland recently undertook an experiment in wikidemocracy by creating a \"shadow government program\" on the Internet, essentially a compilation of the political views and aspirations of various groups in Finland, on a wiki.\n\n"}
{"id": "4338200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4338200", "title": "E. J. Josey", "text": "E. J. Josey\n\nE. J. Josey (January 20, 1924 – July 3, 2009) was an African-American activist and librarian. Josey was born Elonnie Junius Josey in Norfolk, Virginia to Willie and Frances Bailey Josey. He graduated from Howard University in 1949 and received his master's in History from Columbia University in 1950 and a master's in librarianship from the University at Albany, SUNY in 1953. From 1955 to 1959, he was Director of the Library of Delaware State College, Dover, Delaware, and from 1959–1966, he was Chief Librarian and Associate Professor at Savannah State College in Savannah, Georgia. He also served on the staff of the Columbia University Library, Free Library of Philadelphia, the New York Public Library, and prior to his position at Delaware State College, he served as Instructor of Social Sciences and History from 1954–1955 at Savannah State College.\n\nIn 1966, Josey joined the New York State Education Department in its Division of Library Development as an Associate in the Bureau of Academic and Research Libraries . In 1968 he was promoted to Chief of the Bureau of Academic and Research Libraries and held that position until 1976 when he was appointed Chief, Bureau of Specialist Library Services, New York State Library. Josey was also Professor Emeritus, Department of Library and Information Science, School of Library and Information Sciences, University of Pittsburgh.\n\nActive in the field of human rights, he was a life member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and served as President of Albany, New York Branch from 1982–86. He also served as President of the Albany Branch of the Association for the Study of Afro-American Life and History. Active in community affairs, he also served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Albany County Opportunity, Inc., the local anti-poverty agency for four years.\n\nA member of the American Library Association for 48 years, at the 1964 annual conference, he authored the resolution forbidding Association officers and staff from participating in state associations that deny membership to black librarians. This action led to the integration of the library association of several Southern states, and he became the first black librarian to be accepted as a member of the Georgia Library Association. In \"The Black Librarian in America\" (1970) Josey recalled the 1964 annual conference:\n\nMuch to my chagrin, the Mississippi Library Association was honored there for its National Library Week Activities. I exploded! I was seething with anger, for I remembered that three civil rights workers-Andrew Goodman, James Chaney, and Micheal Schwerner had been murdered and lay dead and buried somewhere in Mississippi, their bodies not yet discovered. I also remembered that the Mississippi Library Association had withdrawn from ALA rather than give membership to Negro Librarians.\n\nHe was first elected to the ALA Council, the policy making body of the Association in 1970 and served until the summer of 2000, a period of 29 years. In 1979, he was elected to a four-year term on the ALA Executive Board. From 1980–82, he served as Chair of the Cultural Minorities Task Force of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science. Having served on numerous ALA Committees, he chaired the ALA Committee on Pay Equity, the ALA Committee on Legislation, and the ALA International Relations Committee several times.\n\nJosey was the President of ALA in 1984–85. At his inaugural address in 1984, Josey made this forward-thinking comment still applicable to libraries today: \"The information industry has the technology to control information, but its price tag on information distribution and its profit goal create a bias in what information is made available and how it is dispensed. Only the nonprofit organization, the library, dedicated to a total community service goal with trained experts, librarians, running the operation can provide the full scope of information for the total population in a fair and objective manner.\"\n\nIn the spring of 1987, he was elected to a 4-year term on the Board of Directors of the Freedom to Read Foundation and chaired the ALA International Relations Committee from 1987 to 1990. From 1990 to 1994 he served as the Chair of the ALA Legislation Committee. He returned to chair the ALA International Relations Committee for the next two years. In May and June, 1987, Professor Josey lectured in three African countries, Ethiopia, Zimbabwe, and Zambia under the auspices of the United States Information Agency.\n\nDuring the early 1960s, he participated in the Civil Rights struggle in Savannah (see \"The Black Librarian in America\", pp. 308–11). He served on the Executive Board of the Savannah Branch of the NAACP as well as the Executive Board of the Albany, NY Branch of the NAACP.\n\nIn 1964 he carried the Civil Rights struggle into the American Library Association. In spite of the 1954 United States Supreme Court decision, which encouraged desegregation of libraries and ALA chapters, the ALA was slow in implementing integration of all of its southern chapters until Josey offered his resolution at the 1964 Conference which prevented ALA officers and staff members from attending segregated state chapter meetings. The four remaining segregated chapters that denied membership to African-American librarians at that time were Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Mississippi; and they integrated immediately. He is well known for his uncompromising opposition to any form of discrimination whether it is racial, gender, age or sexual orientation.\n\n\nHis fervent advocacy was a major factor in eradicating racial discrimination from many library facilities and services, and from a number of professional associations. As founder of the Black Caucus in ALA, and as its leader throughout the group's formative years, he gave a new strength, unity, purpose and hope to many minority members of our profession.\n\n\nThe Black Caucus of the American Library Association established its first independent scholarship fund in his honor. The E. J. Josey Scholarship Award is given annually to African-American citizen of the United States or Canada pursuing a degree in an ALA accredited Library and Information Science program in the U.S. or Canada. Upon his retirement from the University of Pittsburgh's School of Information Science in 1995, he was named Professor Emeritus and a scholarship was named in his behalf: E. J. Josey Endowment Scholarship for Minorities. This scholarship is awarded annually to an enrolled African-American graduate student in the Department of Library & Information Science who demonstrates potential for academic excellence and leadership in the profession.\n\nThe author of more than 400 articles in library, educational, and history journals, he has also authored and edited twelve books in the field of library science which include:\n\nHe served as Editor of \"The Bookmark\" from 1976–86. In the fall of 1986 he relinquished the editorship of \"The Bookmark\" and served as its co-editor for the next five years.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "56571995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56571995", "title": "Evelyn Thomas Butts", "text": "Evelyn Thomas Butts\n\nEvelyn Thomas Butts (May 22, 1924 - March 11, 1993) was an African American civil rights activist and politician in Virginia. She is best known for challenging the poll tax and took her case before the United States Supreme Court. Butts was part of the civil rights movement and later became an influential member of Norfolk politics.\n\nEvelyn Thomas was born May 22, 1924 in Norfolk, Virginia. When she was ten years old, her mother, Lottie Cornick Thomas, died and she was adopted and raised by a politically active aunt. She married Charles Herbert Butts in 1941 and her husband served in World War II. The couple had three daughters together. When Charles retired due to a war-injury, Butts worked as a seamstress and took in boarders to make money. The Butts family moved to the Oakwood neighborhood of Norfolk and Butts became the president of the neighborhood's civic league.\n\nButts became involved in Civil Rights in the 1950s. During her time as the Oakwood Civic League, she helped create the Rosemont Middle School in her neighborhood so that children wouldn't have to ride the bus to the segregated school. In 1960, she was involved in picketing the Be-Lo Supermarket for not employing black people in higher-level positions. She also protested against black people being told to sit in certain parts of the football stadium. In 1961, Butts was chosen to run against the incumbent president of the Norfolk NAACP. However, Butts withdrew when it became clear she would lose.\n\nButts and her lawyer, Joseph A. Jordan Jr., sued the state of Virginia for requiring the poll tax, filing in November of 1963. Butts' case was that the tax was unconstitutional since it imposed an \"undue financial burden\" that violated the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment. In March 1964, this first case was dismissed, but Butts filed another case and the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the tax. Butts appealed the case and the United States Supreme Court decided to hear the appeal in October 1965. Butts' case was combined with a similar case filed by Annie E. Harper, which reached the Supreme Court first. The case, \"Harper v. Virginia State Board of Elections\", was decided in March of 1966, making poll taxes unconstitutional.\n\nAfter the Supreme Court decision, Butts went on to register black voters in Norfolk, signing up 2,882 \"in one six month period.\" Butts, along with Jordan and other community leaders, helped create the Concerned Citizens for Political Education group, which became a powerful political force in local politics in the 1970s.\n\nButts was appointed the commissioner of the Norfolk Redevelopment and Housing Authority (NRHA) in 1975. She would serve on the NRHA for twelve years. In 1982, she was appointed by the governor to the State Board of Housing and Community Development.\n\nButts ran for city council in Norfolk three times in 1980, 1982 and in 1984, but was never successful. Also in 1984, Butts was a witness in a court trial where she supported an at-large election system in Norfolk.\n\nButts was forced into retirement from politics in 1990 when she was ousted as the chair of the Concerned Citizens for Political Education. Butts died in her home on March 11, 1993. She is buried in Norfolk's Forest Lawn Cemetery.\n\nOn November of 1995, Norfolk named a street in her honor. On March 27, 1996, the city held a celebration to mark the 30th anniversary of the poll tax repeal. During the celebration, they honored Butts and other activists involved. In 2017, Butts' daughter, Charlene Butts Ligon, published a book about her mother called \"Fearless: How a Poor Virginia Seamstress Took on Jim Crow, Beat the Poll Tax and Changed Her City Forever\". The \"New Journal and Guide\" called the book \"thoughtful and information-filled.\" The book provides intimate details of Butts' life and her activism as seen through her daughter's eyes. \n\n"}
{"id": "39375840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39375840", "title": "Feed the Future Initiative", "text": "Feed the Future Initiative\n\nThe Feed the Future Initiative (FTF) was launched in 2010 by the United States government and the Obama Administration to address global hunger and food insecurity. According to the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, it is \"the U.S. government's global food security initiative.\"\n\nThe Feed the Future Initiative began as an effort \"to combat the global food price spikes of 2007 and 2008.\" In 2009 President Barack Obama committed $3.5 billion over a 3-year period to a global initiative with the intent of combatting hunger and poverty; in May 2010 the United States Department of State launched the Feed the Future Initiative. The Initiative was developed by the Department of State and is coordinated primarily by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). The main objectives of the initiative are the advancement of global agricultural development, increased food production and food security, and improved nutrition particularly for vulnerable populations such as women and children.\n\nIt is estimated that globally almost one billion people currently experience chronic hunger. Most of these people live in Sub-Saharan Africa and South East Asia where health and social problems resulting from chronic hunger are compounded by poverty and other health issues. With a world population of over seven billion people, and a predicted population of 9 billion people by 2050 \n\nAt the 2009 G8 Summit in L'Aquila, Italy, President of the United States Barack Obama announced a $10.15 billion commitment over 3 years to an initiative that would focus on reducing hunger and poverty in developing countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and South East Asia. The United States and other G8 and G-20 countries committed a total of over 20 billion USD. The intent of the international commitment was to address food insecurity and poverty in a more comprehensive way; international efforts include supporting country-led plans for change, looking at root causes of food insecurity and poverty, increasing coordination with and the use of multi-lateral institutions, and approaching issues with the goal of increased sustainability and accountability\n\nThe United States' State Department, the coordinating agency for the Obama Administration's initiative on global hunger and food security, released the Global Hunger and Food Security Initiative Consultation Document on September 28, 2009. The document provided an overview of the initiative's priorities and strategy; in May 2010 the initiative was renamed \"Feed the Future\" and a new set of strategy documents and country and regional implementation guides were issued.\n\nFeed the Future's guide is based on five principles for sustainable food security that were first introduced at the 2009 G8 Summit and later endorsed at the 2009 World Summit on Food Security in Rome, Italy. In creating the guide the U.S. government received input through consultation with other countries, international foundations and institutions, private companies and farmers both nationally and internationally. The Feed the Future strategy guide includes three overarching themes throughout: gender/gender development, the environment/human ecology, and climate change. The two main objectives of the Feed the Future Initiative are: to accelerate agriculture sector growth, and to improve the nutritional status of people in the FtF focus and aligned countries. The Initiative specifically focuses on using locally-adapted technologies to increase agricultural productivity and improve local, national and international markets for commodities produced.\n\nAccording to Feed the Future's strategy guide, the Initiative's input and effects differ for each involved country due to FtF's policy of country-specific, country-owned implementation plans. Coordination of the Initiative is carried out by host country governments, the United States government's Global Health Initiative and other development partners to create a nutrition strategy for each country. The progress of each country's nutrition plan is measured by statistics collected; the decrease of stunted and wasted children as well as the prevalence of underweight women are indicators of improved nutritional status.\n\nThe Feed the Future Initiative currently has 19 focus countries across three regions; three countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, twelve countries in Africa, and four countries in Asia:\n\n\nFeed the Future countries are chosen based on five criteria established by the U.S. State Department:\n\n\nThe 'Global Agriculture and Food Security Program' (GAFSP) multilateral funding mechanism associated with the initiative is \"housed at the World Bank.\"\n\nPartner companies include Monsanto and PepsiCo.\n\nA 2013 Government Accountability Office report indicated that \"without ongoing assessments of risks on the ground .. American money, goodwill, and expertise could be squandered.\" A critical article in Mother Jones Magazine in 2013 suggested that \"it's not clear if Feed the Future is working as intended, or if its funds are falling through the cracks.\"\n\nA June 2014 report released by the Feed the Future Initiative described \"positive policy outcomes\" in more optimistic terms, declaring that \"the initiative has begun to truly establish 'a foundation for lasting progress against global hunger.'\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1893990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893990", "title": "Flexible response", "text": "Flexible response\n\nFlexible response was a defense strategy implemented by John F. Kennedy in 1961 to address the Kennedy administration's skepticism of Dwight Eisenhower's New Look and its policy of massive retaliation. Flexible response calls for mutual deterrence at strategic, tactical, and conventional levels, giving the United States the capability to respond to aggression across the spectrum of war, not limited only to nuclear arms.\n\nThe New Look policy, though initially useful, quickly became obsolete with the introduction of inter-continental delivery systems that undermined the credibility of a deterrence threat. The cornerstone of U.S. and European defense strategy was then threatened as the U.S. could no longer rely on nuclear threats to provide security for it and its allies.\n\nJohn F. Kennedy won the presidency by claiming that the Republican Party had allowed the U.S. to fall behind the Soviets into a missile gap. Upon entering office Kennedy cited General Maxwell Taylor's book \"The Uncertain Trumpet\" to Congress for its conclusion that massive retaliation left the U.S. with only two choices: defeat on the ground or the resort to the use of nuclear weapons. Technology had improved since massive retaliation was adopted. Improvements in communication and transportation meant U.S. forces could be deployed more effectively, quickly, and flexibly than before. Advisers persuaded Kennedy that having multiple options would allow the president to apply the appropriate amount of force at the right place without risking escalation or losing alternatives. This would improve credibility for deterrence as the U.S. would now have low-intensity options and therefore would be more likely to use them, rather than massive retaliation's all-or-nothing options.\n\nFlexible Response was implemented to develop several options across the spectrum of warfare, other than the nuclear option, for quickly dealing with enemy aggression. In addition, the survivability of the retaliatory capability was stressed, leading to the diversification of the strategic force, development of the strategic triad, and half the Strategic Air Command force being put on permanent alert status.\n\nThe Kennedy doctrine did not include the ability to fight nuclear wars because of the idea that it would undermine deterrence, was technologically unworkable, would fuel the arms race, and was not politically feasible.\n\nImportance was also placed on counterinsurgency and the development of unconventional military forces, unconventional tactics, and \"civic action\" programs.\n\nA staged plan was devised to counter any Soviet military action other than a first strike. It consisted of three stages:\n\nDirect defense: In case of a conventional Soviet attack (meaning non-nuclear or this would be considered a first strike) initial efforts would be to try and stop the Soviet advance with conventional weapons. This meant that the foreseen Soviet attack on West-Germany would be tried to be forced to a halt by NATO's European forces, Allied Command Europe.\n\nDeliberate Escalation: This phase would be entered when conventional NATO forces were succumbing under the Soviet attack. This was actually expected as intelligence indicated Soviet divisions outnumbered NATO divisions by far. In this phase NATO forces would switch to a limited use of nuclear weapons, such as recently developed tactical nuclear weapons (like nuclear artillery).\n\nGeneral Nuclear Response: This was the last phase or stage which more or less corresponded to the mutual assured destruction scenario, meaning the total nuclear attack on the Communist world. If the Soviets had not already done so, this would make them switch to all-out attack as well.\n\nBy 1960, the United States had three means of strategic forces: ICBMs, SLBMs, and strategic bombers. This triad made it possible for the United States to impose unacceptable damage to the Soviet Union with one strategic force independent of the other two forces. These different forces had their advantages and disadvantages. Bombers could deliver large payloads and strike with great accuracy, but were slow, vulnerable while on the ground, and could be shot down. ICBMs are safe in their underground silos while on the ground, but were less accurate than bombers and could not be called back when launched. Submarines were least vulnerable but were also least accurate and communication could be poor at times. Each of these forces provided the United States with different options to tailor their response to the situation.\n\nPart of Flexible response was the strategy of being able to fight over the entire spectrum of violence by developing diverse forces for different types of warfare. This meant being able to fight multiple wars simultaneously; specifically, the US should have the peacetime capability to fight two large regional wars and a small brushfire war at the same time. The consequence of this was to increase recruiting, investment, and research for the US force posture.\n\nThe strategic doctrine for Kennedy's Flexible response was Assured destruction. Flexible response made second strike capability its guiding principle of deterrence. In the event of Soviet nuclear aggression, the Soviets would know that enough U.S. nuclear capability would survive their strike to destroy their cities and industry. Robert McNamara argued for the definition of what was \"unacceptable\" to the enemy as the destruction of 50% of industry and 25% of the population. Deterrence depended on influence to show that violence and aggression did not pay, and being explicit about the level of destruction the US was willing to inflict on the enemy was one way to illustrate this point. Assured Destruction relied on deterrence by punishment, precision, and credibility.\n\nDefense Secretary McNamara sought to limit damage to the U.S. by developing a separate strategy for offense and defense. The offensive strategy was one of Counterforce, seeking to destroy Soviet military installations and hardware and thus disable this hardware before it could be used. In a 1962 speech to the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, McNamara announced that the U.S. would refrain from striking countervalue targets (cities) early in nuclear war, reserving such force later in war should the Soviets not show similar restraint. This would not only induce the Soviets to spare American cities, but would secure the United States bargaining advantage by holding hostage something that the Soviets might want to keep.\n\nThe defensive strategy involved developing a system to intercept incoming Soviet missiles. Bombers could be easily shot down, but missiles still remained a credible threat. As a result, the United States began developing an anti-ballistic missile program, modifying its Nike missiles to intercept incoming missiles. Ultimately, however, this program was abandoned by the adoption of the anti-ballistic missile treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25360738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25360738", "title": "Foreclosure Stripping", "text": "Foreclosure Stripping\n\nForeclosure Stripping is the process in which the owners of a foreclosed property will remove fixtures and fittings from the property in an attempt to salvage some of their investment. Malicious foreclosure stripping is done by home owners who render damage throughout the property to significantly decrease its value and cause resale to be almost impossible. Foreclosure stripping has been a growing trend in recent years and has reached an all-time high in 2009 because of the economic downturn.\n\nThe main problem associated with foreclosure stripping is devaluation of property in the local area. Because homes are being sold as incomplete, the prices are much lower than others in the area, which brings down the local average property value. Foreclosure stripping is also a problem for banks, as mortgages are unavailable on incomplete properties meaning that for resale to occur, a cash buyer is necessary.\n\nForeclosure stripping is considered a crime in most states and goes against the details of the foreclosure deed signed by the home owner although some would argue that the home remains with the owner until the date at which it is officially signed over to the bank.\n\nIn the past, banks have just recovered the cost of the damage from their insurance brokers, and the perpetrators have never been prosecuted. But recent cases have seen thieves convicted of burglary, a class 4 felony. States such as Arizona have their own FBI task force to investigate and arrest those guilty of property stripping.\n\nAny item that is a built-in feature of the home must remain intact. This includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43401744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43401744", "title": "Freedom: The Underground Railroad", "text": "Freedom: The Underground Railroad\n\nFreedom: The Underground Railroad is a 2013 co-operative board game designed by Brian Mayer and published by Academy Games, their first game in the Freedom Series. The game has drawn positive attention for its approach and handling of the topic.\n\nA card-driven, co-operative game set in early American History, \"Freedom: The Underground Railroad\" has players working together for the Abolitionist Movement to help bring an end to slavery in the United States. The players use a combination of cards, which feature historical figures and events spanning from early independence until the Civil War and contain action tokens and character benefits which impact the game. The game can be played solo or up to four players, each playing one of six possible archetypes from the abolitionist movement: agent, conductor, preacher, shepherd, station master, or stockholder.\n\nSeveral small card expansions, also designed by Mayer, were released with the Kickstarter version, each adding several new cards to the Abolitionist Deck.\n\nThe first goal that players need to achieve in \"Freedom: The Underground Railroad\" are to help a certain number of slaves make their way northward to freedom in Canada. How many varies depends on the number of players and the difficulty level of the game. The second winning condition is that the group needs to collectively raise the strength of the Abolitionist Movement, helping to bring about more permanent changes, by acquiring all of the support tokens in the game.\n\n\"Freedom: The Underground Railroad\" components consists of a game board representing connections between cities and spaces on the map of the United States, three decks of cards (Role cards, Abolitionist cards, and Slave Market cards), five slave catcher tokens, 110 wooden cubes representing the men, women and children trapped in slavery, slave catcher movement dice, action tokens (support, fundraising, and conductor), money, and a lead player token. The Abolitionist cards are broken up into three eras (1800-1839, 1840-1859, 1860-1865) and feature historical events and individuals from those eras that impacted the fight for freedom, both positively and negatively. General Abolitionist cards are used when acquired, Reserve Abolitionist cards can be held onto until an opportune time, and Opposition cards work against the players in various ways. At the start of the game, Opposition cards are distributed throughout the three era decks. Players are given a random role at the beginning of the game.\n\nThere are 8 rounds in the game, each consisting of five phases:\n1. Slave Catcher Phase - the lead player rolls and resolves the Slave Catcher and Movement Dice.\n2. Planning Phase - Each player may take up to a total of two action tokens.\n3. Action Phase - Starting with the lead player, players may take the following actions in any order:\n4. Slave Market Phase - Deliver slaves from the bottom Slave Market card to the plantations.\n5. Lantern Phase - Discard any card in the right most space of the Abolitionist Queue (2 spaces for the solo or 2-player game), possibly triggering any Opposition cards in those spaces. Check for victory, if not pass the Lead Player token and continue.\n\nThe game is over if any of the following occur:\n\n\n\"Freedom: The Underground Railroad\" is the topic of a first book in a series of books being published by Rosen Publishing, centered on the use of games as educational resources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7256772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7256772", "title": "General Conference (United Methodist Church)", "text": "General Conference (United Methodist Church)\n\nThe General Conference of the United Methodist Church is the denomination's top legislative body for all matters affecting the United Methodist connection.\n\nThe \"Book of Discipline\" and constitution of The United Methodist Church define the composition of the General Conference as no less than 600 and no more 1,000 delegates, half laity and half clergy. These delegates are elected by the Annual Conferences and several other specialized bodies within the structure of The United Methodist Church.\n\nThe General Conference meets on a quadrennial basis, that is, once every four years. Special sessions may be called by the Council of Bishops.\n\nPetitions are assigned to legislative committees based on their content. Legislative committees elect committee leadership and then break into subcommittees to review and refine legislation. Subcommittees bring petitions before the entire committee with the recommendation to reject, adopt, or adopt as amended. During consideration by the entire committee, additional amendments may be made. Then, the entire committee votes to recommend to the General Conference (the almost 1000 delegates) what action should be taken on the legislation. No action is final until taken by the General Conference in plenary session. \n\nChurch and Society 1: This committee will receive all petitions and resolutions relating to the work and concerns of the Board of Church and Society and the Social Principles, with the exception of paragraphs in The Book of Discipline dealing with the nurturing community and the social community. \n\nChurch and Society 2: All petitions and resolutions relating to the nurturing community and the social community sections of the Social Principles will be referred to this committee. \n\nConferences: This committee shall receive all petitions and resolutions relating to the composition and activities of the General, jurisdictional, annual, provisional, missionary and district conferences. \n\nDiscipleship: All petitions and resolutions relating to the work and concerns of the Board of Discipleship shall be referred to this committee. \"(This committee is typically one of the committees with the highest number of members. Both the \"Discipleship\" and \"Ministry and Higher Education\" Committees usually approach 100 members. 2008 Discipleship Committee members were approximately 65% laity.)\" \n\nFaith and Order: All petitions relating to \"Doctrinal Standards and Our Theological Task,\" \"The Ministry of All Christians\" and the meaning of ordination and conference membership will be referred to this committee. \n\nFinancial Administration: This committee shall receive all petitions and resolutions relating to the work and concerns of the Council on Finance and Administration, the Board of Pension and Health Benefits, and the United Methodist Publishing House. The budget and recommendations prepared by the General Council on Finance and Administration shall be submitted to this committee for study and review. Thereafter, when the General Council on Finance and Administration presents its report to the General Conference for action, the committee shall present its recommendations and may propose amendments. \n\nGeneral Administration: Petitions and resolutions relating to the work and concerns of the Connectional Table shall be referred to this committee. The report of the Connectional Table shall be submitted to this committee for study and review. After the Connectional Table presents its report to the General Conference for action, the committee shall present its recommendations and may propose amendments. \n\nGlobal Ministries: All petitions and resolutions relating to the work and concerns of the Board of Global Ministries shall be referred to this committee. \n\nIndependent Commissions: This committee shall receive all petitions and resolutions relating to commissions and ecumenical concerns. The commissions include Archives and History, Christian Unity and Interreligious Concerns, Communications, Religion and Race, the Status and Role of Women, and United Methodist Men. Ecumenical concerns relate to the denomination’s membership in or relationship with the World Methodist Council, the National Council of Churches, other councils and consultations of churches, and the American Bible Society.\n\nJudicial Administration: All petitions and resolutions relating to judiciary concerns and investigations, trials and appeals are handled by this committee. \n\nLocal Church: This committee will receive all petitions and resolutions relating to the organization of the local church and its membership, programs, boards, councils, commissions and committees. The committee will also consider petitions relating to local church property. \n\nMinistry and Higher Education: All petitions and resolutions relating to the work and concerns of ordained ministries, higher education, seminaries, and the Division of Chaplaincy and Related Ministries of the Board of Higher Education and Ministry shall be referred to this committee. \"(This committee is typically the most coveted committee for clergy delegates and is one of the committees with the highest number of members. Committee members were approximately 65% clergy in 2008.)\"\n\nSuperintendency: Petitions and resolutions relating to the work and concerns of superintendents shall be referred to this committee. In addition, a Commission on Central Conference Affairs will handle legislative proposals affecting central conferences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5539423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5539423", "title": "Graduate unemployment", "text": "Graduate unemployment\n\nGraduate unemployment, or educated unemployment, is unemployment among people with an academic degree.\n\nResearch undertaken proved that unemployment and underemployment of graduates are devastating phenomena in their lives. A high incidence of either are indicators of institutional ineffectiveness and inefficiency. Since the beginning of the economic recession in the US economy in 2007, an increasing number of graduates have been unable to find permanent positions in their chosen field. According to statistics, the unemployment rate for recent college graduates has been higher than all college graduates in the past decade, implying that it has been more difficult for graduates to find a job in recent years. One year after graduation, the unemployment rate of 2007–2008 bachelor's degree recipients was 9%. Underemployment among graduates is high. Educated unemployment or underemployment is due to a mismatch between the aspirations of graduates and employment opportunities available to them.\n\nAggravating factors for unemployment are the rapidly increasing quantity of international graduates competing for an inadequate number of suitable jobs, schools not keeping their curriculums relevant to the job market, the growing pressure on schools to increase access to education (which usually requires a reduction in educational quality), and students being constantly told that an academic degree is the only route to a secure future.\n\nCollege and Universities cost thousands of dollars a semester, not including study materials, books, room, and board. Tuition has gone up 1,120 percent in the last thirty years. Students have been given the impression that employers are looking for people who, through tests and grades, have demonstrated that they are high achievers. In many recent surveys, that has been proved otherwise. Employers are looking for people who have learned how to learn, and have gained substantial communication skills as well as critical thinking abilities. Graduates are not meeting employers needs. Students are also struggling to pay off their student loans. Without the desired, and needed jobs, graduates are accumulating debt and struggling to pay back their loans. 15 percent of the student borrowers default within the first three years of repayment. Many resort to returning to live with their parents and having to work multiple part-time jobs. Loans average about twenty to thirty thousand dollars. Higher education becomes an investment in which students are expecting to find a job with enough income to pay off the loans in a timely manner.\n\nIn June 2013, 11.8 million persons were unemployed, putting the unemployment rate at 7.6 percent. The state of the economy is a large contributor to these numbers. In June, 2001 the unemployment rate was 4.6% After 9/11/2001, the unemployment rate skyrocketed to 5.7% in November 2001 and rose drastically in 2009 to 10% in October. In September, 2015, unemployment is reported by the Labor Department to be at 5.1%. However, some economists dispute that as accurate and claim that unemployment is much higher due to the number of people who have stopped looking for jobs. The lack of jobs available, and skills desired by employers, are beginning to prove to be another major cause for graduate unemployment in the U.S. Graduates are completing school with a degree and a head full of knowledge, but still lack work experience to impress white-collar employers.\n\nEducation Percentage<br>\nHigh school graduate 86.68%<br>\nSome college 55.60%<br>\nAssociates and/or bachelor's degree 38.54%<br>\nMaster's degree 7.62%<br>\nDoctorate or professional degree 2.94%\n\nCollege majors ranked in ascending order by the percentage of college graduates with degrees in those fields who are employed in jobs that do not require a college degree. Data is from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the United States Census Bureau, and the American Community Survey. Note: The unemployment and underemployment rates are for recent college graduates (between the ages 22 and 27).\nA 2016 labour market assessment by the Parliamentary Budget Officer reported that the underemployment rate for undergraduates under the age of 35 increased from 32% in 1991 to 39% in 2015. The equivalent rate for college graduates was similar until 2006. Since then it has fallen to 33%.\n\nA 2017 study from Statistics Canada showed that, for both men and women, more than 24% of undergraduates in the arts, the humanities, the social sciences and the behavioral sciences are underemployed. In nursing, engineering, education and training, and computer and information science, the underemployment rate is less than 8%.\n\nA 2017 study by the Productivity Commission found that 20% of graduates are working part-time, while 26% of graduates are working full-time but consider themselves to be underemployed.\n\nThe markets for China's graduates share much in common with those of other countries. China's recent upsurge in graduate unemployment relates to a number of things. One important aspect is its education policy-making and economic development as well as reforms in the economy and in its higher education. Recently the annual growth in the numbers of new graduates was estimated at 7,270,000 for 2014. It has been stated that the rate of young unemployed graduates should logically bring about a withdrawal from higher education. At 8% annual growth, the Chinese labor market will generate about eight million jobs, but these are mainly in manufacturing and require low-level qualifications. This rising enrollment made employment an issue and a serious challenge for China. Including the graduates who are not employed last year, the number of unemployed graduates may reach 8,100,000. However, in the first half of 2014, there were 67,000 Chinese private businesses failing. These businesses employed 34.2 percent of the graduates in 2011.\n\nIn 2013, it was estimated that at least 600,000 graduates from the prior year had yet to find employment. This is in addition to the approximately 7 million students who were leaving their universities with the desire to enter the workforce immediately. In the study \"2010 Chinese College Students Employment Report\" it named 15 professions that had the highest unemployment percentages in China. The survey said that, between 2007–2009, for three consecutive years, law majors had one of the highest unemployment rates for a bachelor's degree. Another field of high unemployment for the last three consecutive years was in the fields of computer science and technology. In many of China's universities, professions majoring in English have had a high level of unemployment This tendency was still occurring during 2010 to 2013.\n\nFrom 1900 to 1911, China abolished the civil service examination system and established a modern schooling system based on Western models.\n\nSince 1978, the government has been reforming its economy from a Soviet-style centrally planned economy to a more market-oriented economy to increase productivity, living standards, and technological quality without exacerbating inflation, unemployment, and budget deficits.\n\nChina’s economy regained momentum in the early 1990s. The Asian Financial Crisis of 1998–99 influenced the economy by slowing growth and as a consequence experts submitted proposals to state organs to stimulate economic recovery. This involved increasing student numbers and intensifying the modification of education as a way of stimulating internal consumption.\n\nIn 2008, the unemployment rate of graduates was more than 30%. In this year the unemployment rate of graduates from top universities was 10%.\n\nIn 2009, the employment rate of graduates who had bachelor's degree was in the 88% range.\n\nIn 2010, the employment rate of college graduates rose 3.2% in 2009 reaching 91.2%.\n\nin 2012, Prime Minister Zhu warned that increased foreign competition brought by China's entry into the World Trade Organization could lead to a doubling of the official urban unemployment rate over the next few years from 3.5% to 7%, or around 30 million people.\n\nIn 2013, data released by the Chinese government indicated that the rate of graduate unemployment was 33.6%.\n\nIn 2014, based on official Chinese date, roughly 15% of the new grads are unemployed six months after graduation. However, Cheng, a professor of political science states the authentic unemployment is actually 2.3 million which means the rate is around 30%.\n\nChina's higher education system prior to the 1999 expansion was not prepared for large-scale growth as it was basically characterized as \"education for examinations,\" and the reforms in the 1990s did not change this feature. The lack of diversity in curricula at different levels and in different divisions of higher education determined that graduates lacked the specialty and the flexibility to respond to market demand. Moreover, before the 1999 expansion, a national job market had not yet been established. With a focus on immediate economic growth, the policy makers appear to have made the 1999 expansion decision without a big picture of the future structure of China's market-oriented economy, and without knowing in which economic sectors manpower needs would increase.\n\nChina has had a long history of regional disparities, and disparities between urban and rural areas. Disparities in economic development are paralleled by disparities in higher education: top universities, for instance, are all located in those regions such as Shanghai, Beijing and Shenzhen. Such disparities in education are reflected in both quality and quantity. In addition, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Institute of Sociology and Social Sciences Documentation Publishing House jointly published the social blue book \"2014 Chinese Social Situation Analysis and Prediction\", which released a set of employment survey reports based on 1678 graduates from 12 universities. As is shown in the blue book, two months after graduation, the unemployment rate of undergraduates from rural families is higher than undergraduates from urban families, which is 30.5%.\n\nThe Chinese government has taken some measures to try to solve the crisis and it hopes injecting huge investments into the economy will create jobs and relieve much of the pressure. But some experts predict that building infrastructure will only provide manual jobs for ordinary workers and will not benefit college graduates.\n\nAnother measure is to boost postgraduate enrollments. The Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China plans to expand enrollments of masters students by 5% and doctoral students by 1.7%. Given the decline in jobs, many graduates will choose to study further and this year almost 1.25 million first degree-holders will be taking the postgraduate entrance examinations.\n\nYet expanding postgraduate enrollments cannot solve the problem of graduate unemployment as it can only offer some relief or postpone the current employment pressure. Indeed, in recent years, employment of master's degree graduates has become problematic.\nDiverting graduates to rural areas is a third measure. But a vast gap exists between urban and rural areas in terms of developmental level, opportunities, and living conditions. Thus, most graduates prefer to work in cities.\n\nTo encourage them to go to the countryside, the government has come up with policies such as preferential treatment when graduates (after two years service) apply to become government officials, or extra points are added to their scores in examinations for graduate study. But these policies are not attractive given the low salaries graduates earn in country areas.\n\nThe Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China has recently been calling for the whole society, including overseas Chinese, to contribute ideas to improve education overall. Promoting creative and vocational education has been raised as a way of providing new graduates with creative education and job skills to meet the needs of the market and to face the challenges of a changing world in the decades to come.\n\nPerhaps this approach constitutes a more fundamental strategy that will eventually solve the graduate employment problem, although the impact is likely to take many years to become apparent. China's education department has already stated clearly that it wants to turn 600 universities into polytechnics, in order to give students more technical and employment-related curriculum, instead of only providing academic and theoretical subjects.\n\nThe employment situation for new college graduates is different from the working population in general. The graduate unemployment crisis in China represents a wasteful investment of scarce resources. Large sums of money have consequently been invested in educating unemployed graduates which could otherwise have been invested in job-creating productive programmes. With a flood of new graduates, individuals are having a tough time finding jobs in an increasingly competitive labor market. Furthermore， it produces permanent scars on youth. Farlie and Kletzer (1999) estimated that being unemployed while young results in lower future earnings by a magnitude of 8.4% and 13.0% for males and females, respectively. Meanwhile, graduates have some negative expectations under the pressure of seeking jobs. Nanjing Normal University has surveyed students who expected to graduate in 2006 about \"College Student's Attitudes about Job Seeking and Career\". 44.21% prefer to get an employment contract first, then consider pursuing a new job position which is what they really desire to be employed for an average of 2 years. This phenomenon not only causes underemployment and high turnover in the job market, but also, graduates will have lower levels of job satisfaction, work commitment, job involvement and internal work motivation. Obviously, these of problems will bring more risks for employers as well.\n\nAnother widespread criticism is that, since the acceleration of enrollment starting from 1999, many schools, which were originally vocational ones, have been turned into universities. This has resulted in the number of university increasing greatly, which also means an increase in graduates with university degrees. But the truth is that the quality of these students' education is often even lower than vocational school graduates. The reason is that vocational school graduates have technical abilities which university graduates often lack. It's quite common that universities often put more emphasis on academic research rather than teaching practical skills required for jobs, which employers often value. What is more, some employers only pay attention to graduates from prestigious universities, which result in the decrease of competences of normal college graduates. In order to solve this, it is said that the Chinese government is considering restoring these so-called \"Sanben\" universities to what they originally were.\n\nGraduate unemployment will be more likely to promote postgraduate school education. Half of graduates would like to consider attending postgraduate schools to enhance their ability to seek expert jobs. Government interventions are designed to alleviate graduate unemployment by encouraging young job seekers to \"Go west, go down to where motherland and people are in greatest need.\"\n\n\"The China Youth Daily\" has reported that some graduates have worked for years in villages of Hainan, China’s most southerly province. In 2003, the Communist Youth League recruited over 50,000 graduates to provide volunteer service in education, health care, agriculture, and cultural development in western provinces. As well as receiving a stipend, a State Council circular issued in 2005 promised the graduate volunteers preferential policies in civil service tests and graduate school entrance exams. Moreover, graduates had an opportunity to be self-employed as the Chinese government launched policies which were formulated to encourage college graduates to carve out their own future. However, many college graduates remain underemployed or unemployed even after completing their advanced degree.\n\nA study in 2017 from the Higher Education Careers Services Unit has found a wide range, six months after graduation, in the proportion of graduates who are either in full-time employment or studying for an advanced degree. There is an even wider range in the proportion of graduates who are employed in such occupations as cashier or waiter. The following table shows selected data from this study.\nAccording to a 2002 survey of more than 30,000 graduates from 10 European countries about 3–4 years after graduation, only a minority of 10–20% of graduates face substantial problems in the labor market or end up in positions not commensurate with their level of education. There is a clear North-South differential in Europe with respect to transition and objective employment measures, while the pattern is more differentiated with respect to the perceived utilisation of knowledge, the self-rated adequacy of position and the job satisfaction.\n\nAmong OECD nations in 2013, the worst unemployment rates for graduates were in by Greece, Spain and Portugal.\n\n30. International Labour Office (2012)\"Long-term consequences of the youth jobs crisis\",\"Global Employment Trends for Youth 2012\"， pp. 19–20.\n"}
{"id": "22926856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22926856", "title": "Greek Volunteer Guard", "text": "Greek Volunteer Guard\n\nThe Greek Volunteer Guard (Serbian Cyrillic: Грчка Добровољачка Гарда; Greek: Ελληνική Εθελοντική Φρουρά) was a unit of Greek volunteers that fought in the Bosnian War on the side of the Army of the Republika Srpska. Some members of the unit are alleged to have been present in the area of the Srebrenica Massacre and reportedly hoisted a Greek flag over the town on Ratko Mladić's instigation.\n\nThe first detachment of Greek volunteers in Bosnia arrived in 1993. In March 1995, the Greek Volunteer Guard (ΕΕΦ), a contingent of one hundred Greek paramilitaries formed at the request of the Chief of Staff of the Bosnian Serb Army Ratko Mladić, became a regular fighting unit of the Drina Corps with its own insignia, a white double-headed eagle on a black background. The unit, led by Serb officers, was based in Vlasenica, a town in the Drina Valley.\n\nSome of the volunteers allegedly had links with Golden Dawn (Χρυσή Αυγή), a Greek nationalist political party accused as being neo-nazi by their opponents, They were allegedly motivated to support their Orthodox brothers in battle.\n\nArchbishop Seraphim of Athens had invited Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadžić to visit Athens in 1993. At a rally there, Karadžić proclaimed: \"We have only God and the Greeks on our side.\"\n\nIn 2002 the Dutch NIOD report on Srebrenica described how the Greek Volunteer Guard, or GVG, unit had hoisted the Greek flag over Srebrenica after the town's fall, citing video footage of the event and excerpts from intercepted Bosnian Serb army telephone communications that included Gen. Ratko Mladić's specific request for the Greek flag to be hoisted over the town to honour \"the brave Greeks fighting on our side.\" The Report also revealed that the Greek government had sent shipments of light arms and ammunition to the Bosnian Serb army between 1994 and 1995.\n\nAccording to a report by Agence France Presse (AFP), a dozen Greek volunteers were alleged to have fought alongside Serb forces during the time of the Srebrenica massacre. The GVG's involvement in the attack on Srebrenica was reported and several of the volunteers were interviewed in the Greek media.\n\nIn his book \"Unholy Alliance\", published in 2002, the Greek author Takis Michas referred to the claim reported by the Sarajevo weekly review \"Global\" that a dozen Greek paramilitaries had been present in the area of the Srebrenica massacre and had raised the Greek flag over the town, reproducing pictures of the volunteers published in the Greek press. Michas also said that Radovan Karadžić had subsequently decorated the volunteers. In September 1995, four of the unit's fighters were awarded the White Eagle medal of honour by Radovan Karadžić.\n\nIn the ’s documentary \"The Greek way\" by Dutch public broadcaster IKON, which investigated Greek solidarity with Serbia in the Bosnian war, a director of the semi-official Athens News Agency, Nikolas Voulelis, admitted to widespread censorship in the Greek media, \"Editorial interference was a given.\" said Voulelis.\n\nIn 2005 Greek deputy Andreas Andrianopoulos called for an investigation. On 10 July 2005, 163 Greek academics, politicians, journalists and political activists issued a call for Greece to officially apologise to the victims of Srebrenica for any Greek presence in the area of the massacre. After asserting that the Greek public had been \"misinformed\" about the alliance with the Bosnian Serb forces, their statement called for the Greek state to apologise publicly to the families of the victims, to indict the Greek ‘volunteers' who had been present in Bosnia alongside Karadzic and Mladic and dishonoured the Greek flag by raising it over the carnage at Srebrenica, and to pursue the 'supposedly unknown' people who manipulated them.\n\nThe Minister of Justice, Anastasios Papaligouras, commissioned an inquiry which has yet to report.\n\nIn 2007 in the paper \"Eleftheri ora\" Kyriakos Katharios, a member of the Greek Volunteer Guard, denied that they had participated in the massacre. While acknowledging the raising of the Greek flag, he stated that the honors received from Mladić were not linked to the incident. In an interview with Al-Jazeera Katharios claimed that he had been telephoned at home by fellow volunteers who told him that they had raised the flag but had not taken part in the battle itself.\n\nIn 2009 Stavros Vitalis, a representative of the Greek volunteers, announced that he was suing Takis Michas over allegations in his book. Vitalis maintained that the volunteers were members of the Bosnian Serb army who had simply taken part in what he described as the town's \"re-occupation\". In his press statement he acknowledged that \"I was present with a group of senior Serb officers in all the operations for the re-occupation of Srebrenica by the Serbs\". This was despite Vitalis telling the journalist Barnaby Phillips that although in Bosnia he was not at Srebrenica when it fell to the Serbs.\n\nVitalis also claimed that Greek volunteers travelled to the conflict area with the supposed knowledge of senior Greek politicians . Michas focused on inaction : \"No-one tried to stop them and the Greek legal authorities made no attempt to assist the work of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia at The Hague by pursuing inquiries about crimes the volunteers may have committed themselves or known about\".\n\nThe suit against Michas was funded by an umbrella group of extreme-right Greek nationalists.\n\nThe campaigning organisation Reporters Sans Frontieres urged the Greek court to dismiss the action, which it described as \"surreal\" and a clear case of judicial harassment. Referring to the quality, thoroughness and courage of Michas's reporting of the Greek \"volunteers\"'military support to the Bosnian Serbs and successive Greek governments' reluctance to investigate the issue the organisation found the \"self-censorship\" of the Greek political class and media about the presence of any paramilitaries or mercenaries forces from the country in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the Srebrenica massacre \"surprising and disturbing\" and in the public interest called for further close examination of the role of the Greek authorities.\n\nOn 17 September, very shortly before the court hearing was due to commence, Vitalis withdrew from the action.\n"}
{"id": "3774920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3774920", "title": "Hack Green Secret Nuclear Bunker", "text": "Hack Green Secret Nuclear Bunker\n\nThe Hack Green Secret Nuclear Bunker is a former government-owned nuclear bunker located at Hack Green, Cheshire, England.\n\nThe first military use of the area was in World War II, when a Starfish site was established at Hack Green. Its purpose was to confuse Luftwaffe bombers looking for the vital railway junction at Crewe.\n\nA Ground-controlled interception (GCI) radar station was added.\n\nIn the 1950s, the site was modernised as part of the ROTOR project. This included the provision of a substantial semi-sunk reinforced concrete bunker or blockhouse (type R6).\n\nThe station, officially designated RAF Hack Green, was also known as Mersey Radar. It provided an air traffic control service to military aircraft crossing civil airspace.\n\nThe site was abandoned and remained derelict for many years, until the Home Office took it over. They rebuilt the R6 bunker as a Regional Government Headquarters (RGHQs) - one of a network of 17 such sites throughout the UK - designed to enable government to continue in the aftermath of a major nuclear attack on the UK.\n\nIn about 1992, following the end of the Cold War, the Home Office abandoned its network of RGHQs and sold many of the sites. This one was bought by a private company and subsequently opened to the public in 1998 as a museum with a Cold War theme.\n\nThe bunker is open to the public most of the year. It has a substantial collection of military and Cold War memorabilia, including one of the largest collections of decommissioned nuclear weapons in the world. It also houses Ballistic Missile Early Warning System equipment originally from RAF High Wycombe.\n\nThe museum includes information about the function of the bunker during the Cold War. There is a simulator designed to simulate conditions in the bunker during a nuclear attack. Visitors can watch the BBC film \"The War Game\", produced to inform the public of what would be likely to happen in a nuclear attack on Britain. Younger visitors to the museum can navigate the rooms in a game to find the \"Cold War Spy Mice\" (a large number of toy mice positioned in numerous rooms), which avoids the more disturbing aspects of the bunker, such as the medical room, where a mannequin is depicted with symptoms of burns and radiation poisoning; the objective being to locate as many mice as possible and return their report to the desk for a prize.\n\nHack Green was featured in the British television series \"\" episode two in which the team investigates the murder of a soldier. It featured once again in Series 10.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1770458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1770458", "title": "Hacktivismo Enhanced-Source Software License Agreement", "text": "Hacktivismo Enhanced-Source Software License Agreement\n\nThe Hacktivismo Enhanced-Source Software License Agreement (HESSLA) is a software license proposed by Hacktivismo that attempts to put ethical restrictions on use and modification of software released under it.\n\nThe license was written by Oxblood Ruffin (of Hacktivismo and CULT OF THE DEAD COW) and Eric Grimm, an attorney with the EFF.\n\nThe HESSLA allows for enhancements to be made and for derivative works to be created, but it prohibits the use or modification of the software to violate human rights or to introduce features that spy on the user. It is intended to be a legally enforceable document. However, due to these restrictions, it is not technically a free software license, though it was inspired by free software and open source licenses.\n\nHESSLA has been criticized by the Free Software Foundation for introducing restrictions that they claim are ineffective for preventing abuse, but introduce legal incompatibility with other licenses. It also is listed as a good example of a \"human rights license\" in the Creative Commons wiki.\n\nThe web browser xB Browser was temporarily based on the \"Torrify Ethical Software License Agreement\" (TESLA) which was built upon HESSLA.\n\n"}
{"id": "48893935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48893935", "title": "Health Policy (journal)", "text": "Health Policy (journal)\n\nHealth Policy is a monthly peer-reviewed academic journal covering health policy and health care. It was established in 1979 as Health Policy and Education, obtaining its current name in 1984. It is published by Elsevier and the editor-in-chief is Reinhard Busse (Berlin University of Technology). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 2.293.\n"}
{"id": "5855767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5855767", "title": "Human Rights Quarterly", "text": "Human Rights Quarterly\n\nHuman Rights Quarterly (HRQ) is a quarterly academic journal founded by Richard Pierre Claude in 1982 covering human rights. The journal is intended for scholars and policymakers and follows recent developments from both governments and non-governmental organizations. It includes research in policy analysis, book reviews, and philosophical essays. The journal is published by the Johns Hopkins University Press and the editor-in-chief is Bert B. Lockwood, Jr. (Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights, University of Cincinnati College of Law).\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 0.841, ranking it 68th out of 161 journals in the category \"Political Science\" and 23rd out of 41 journals in the category \"Social Issues\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45323761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45323761", "title": "John Griffin (businessman)", "text": "John Griffin (businessman)\n\nJohn Patrick Griffin (born 1 August 1942) is a British businessman and philanthropist. He is the founder of Addison Lee.\n\nJohn Patrick Griffin was born on 1 August 1942 in the UK to a civil engineering contractor father. He was raised in Kilburn from 9 years old attending Finchley Catholic High School. However, he left school with no qualifications after contracting tuberculosis from drinking the milk of a cow he had milked on a school visit to a farm.\n\nWhile training as an accountant, his father's road and sewer building business got into financial difficulty. Griffin left accountancy training to help salvage the business with some success. During this period, and wanting a flexible job to create extra income, Griffin started working as a minicab driver which turned into a full-time job. Griffin eventually decided to move on from driving minicabs, deciding he could do a better job of running a minicab business. Together with another driver, he set about starting a company which today is known as West One Cars. However, Griffin was convinced to stay on with his original employer after his salary was quadrupled and only later decided to form his own company.\n\nGriffin was convinced that his new company needed a name which started with an \"A\" for it to appear early in telephone directory listings. A colleague who lived in a squat in Addison Gardens said people seemed to think this was a very posh address, which Griffin supplemented with Lee. Addison Lee was founded in 1975, with half the company owned by investor Lenny Foster.\n\nIn 1976, Griffin founded the Private Hire Car Association in response to the Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1976. As chairman of the association, Griffin was vocal in the debate that led to the licensing of private hire operators in the UK.\n\nHe was featured on the television programme, \"The Secret Millionaire\" in December 2009.\n\nHe stepped down as Chairman of Addison Lee in 2014, shortly after the Carlyle Group purchased a majority stake in the company.\n\nHe is one of the top 20 donors to the Conservative Party.\n\nHe is an \"Enterprise Fellow\" of The Prince's Trust. He has also made charitable contributions to the Variety Club Golf Society.\n\nHe resides in Potters Bar, Hertfordshire, north of London, with his partner, Rita. He has two sons, Liam and Kieran, who both work for Addison Lee.\n"}
{"id": "35052243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35052243", "title": "League of California Cities", "text": "League of California Cities\n\nThe League of California Cities is an association of cities within the state of California, founded in 1898. Most of the state's 482 cities are represented in the league. The League publishes \"Western City\", a monthly magazine, and holds an annual conference and exposition The League advocates for cities at the state capitol, including proper distribution of state taxes to the cities. The main office is in Sacramento.\n\nIn 1898, Ben Lamborn, the city clerk of Alameda, sent a letter to the then over 100 cities in the state, inquiring about their experience with a newly introduced road roller. He added to the inquiry questions such as their name, population, date of incorporation, names of officials, among others.\n\nHaven A. Mason, a community activist, newspaper publisher, attorney and city clerk of Santa Clara, was one recipient. Mason had read about the 1894 founding of the National Municipal League, a citizens group with a mission to fight corruption in city governments. He visited Lamborn in Alameda to discuss organizing city officials around issues such as public records and tax assessment and the introduction of electric light.\n\nLamborn and Mason presented the idea to Delos Druffel, the mayor of Santa Clara, who then sent letters to the other mayors in the state asking them to attend a meeting to consider this proposal.\n\nMason and Lamborn then visited James D. Phelan, the mayor of San Francisco. Phelan was interested in the idea of a League of Municipalities, offered San Francisco as a meeting place, and provided $3,000 of his own monies to pay for expenses. Lamborn bartered an agreement with Southern Pacific for them to provide a 3,000-mile pass, which the railroad would recoup in the anticipated travel expenses of city officials' attending the ongoing league meetings.\n\nDruffel received positive replies from about half the cities in California. An invitation was then sent to all cities and incorporated towns, asking them to send representatives to the first meeting, at Pioneer Hall, on Fourth Street in San Francisco, on December 14, 1898. The date was deliberately set for prior to January 1899, \"so that the proposed association could be formed in time to consider such matters of legislation as might be deemed expedient to submit to the Legislature then to assemble.\"\n\nThirty cities answered the invitation, with others sending words of encouragement. Thirteen cities, all from the San Francisco Bay Area, sent delegates. Phelan was elected president, Mason was named secretary and Lamborn was chosen for the League's executive committee, along with Mayor Joseph Hutchinson of Palo Alto.\n\nThe current officers of the board of directors are:\n\nNotable past board members, in addition to James P. Phelan, include Richard P. Graves, longtime executive director, who ran for governor of California in 1954.\n\nThe league campaigned against 2006's Proposition 90, spending $4.1m against it. The proposition lost. The league campaigned against proposition 98, and for proposition 99, in the Proposition 98/99 ballot proposals of 2008, spending $5.8m on the measures. 98 failed, while 99 passed.\nThe league was an advocate of 2010's Proposition 22, a constitutional amendment that would prevent the state government from taking certain funds, such as transportation funds, from the local governments. They spent $2.8m towards its passage. It passed with 61% of the vote.\n\nThe league sponsors the Helen Putnam Award of Excellence, which is presented annually to city programs that \"Improve the quality of life in local communities, implement efficiencies in service delivery and operations, and provide services responsive to the local community.\"\n\nThe award is named after Helen Putnam, a mayor of Petaluma, and Sonoma County supervisor.\n\n"}
{"id": "47552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47552", "title": "Let's roll", "text": "Let's roll\n\n\"Let's roll\" is a colloquialism that has been used extensively as a command to move and start an activity, attack, mission or project.\n\nThe phrase has been used as early as 1908 in the cadence song now called \"The Army Goes Rolling Along\", which likely extended into tank usage. \n\"The Roads Must Roll\", a science fiction story written in 1940 by Robert A. Heinlein, mentions a re-worded version of \"The Roll of the Caissons\" called \"Road Songs of the Transport Cadets\". The protagonist of the 1937 supernatural comedy, \"Topper\", played by Cary Grant, uses the phrase \"Let's roll\" to his wife, played by Constance Bennett, to indicate they should immediately exit their friend's stuffy office and find a drink. The pair are lighthearted, youthful, irresponsible, and impossibly glamorous types, and the line delivery has a decisive insouciance about it. The protagonist of Ernest Hemingway's 1950 novel \"Across the River and into the Trees\", Colonel Dick Cantwell, based on World War II commander Charles \"Buck\" Lanham, uses the phrase to his driver. He knows he is facing imminent death, but tries to maintain decency, grace, and a sense of humor. The verb \"roll\" has been used in both the film and recording industry to signal the beginning of a film or audio recording.\n\n\"Let's roll\" was commonly used in the police television series \"Adam-12\" and the original \"Dragnet\". It was used at the end of roll call at the beginning of each episode of 1980s television series \"Hill Street Blues\". It has appeared, among other places, in \"The Transformers\" animated series by Optimus Prime, before entering battle or embarking on a group journey. The exact phrase was used in Season 1, Episode 3, \"More than Meets the Eye\" (1984) in preparation for the final showdown with Megatron and the Decepticons (as well as in the 2009 feature film \"\"). It was used in the 1986 film \"Ferris Bueller's Day Off\", and the 1987 film \"Matewan\", where it was used by Baldwin–Felts agents before a violent attack on striking coal miners. The term was used at the end of the film \"Matilda\", when the title character was given up for adoption. The toys use the phrase when setting out to rescue Woody in the 1999 animated children's film \"Toy Story 2\". In the late 1990s, the term \"let's roll\" was frequently used to initiate a departure from any given place. Hence, the term and true context of the term \"let's roll\" during this time period was to initiate action from an individual to a group of friends.\n\nOn September 11, 2001, Todd Beamer, a passenger on the hijacked United Airlines Flight 93, tried to place a call through an air phone, but was routed to a customer service representative instead, who passed him on to supervisor Lisa Jefferson. Beamer reported that one passenger had been killed and that a flight attendant had told him that both the pilot and co-pilot had been forced from the cockpit and may have been injured. He was also on the phone when the plane made a quick and violent turn. Later, he told the operator that some of the other passengers were planning to attack the hijackers and regain control of the aircraft, after they learned about what happened at the World Trade Center and The Pentagon. According to Jefferson, Beamer's last audible words were “Are you ready? Okay. Let's roll.”\n\nIn a November 8 address from the World Congress Center in Atlanta, Georgia, President George W. Bush would invoke Beamer's words: “Some of our greatest moments have been acts of courage for which no one could have been prepared. But we have our marching orders. My fellow Americans, let's roll!” He would use them again in the 2002 State of the Union address: “For too long our culture has said, ‘If it feels good, do it.’ Now America is embracing a new ethic and a new creed: ‘Let's roll.’”\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11307576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11307576", "title": "Magen Tzedek", "text": "Magen Tzedek\n\nMagen Tzedek, originally known as Hekhsher Tzedek, ( English translation \"Shield of Justice\" or \"Justice Certification\", with variant English spellings) is a complementary certification for kosher food produced in the United States in a way that meets Jewish Halakhic (legal) standards for workers, consumers, animals, and the environment, as understood by Conservative Judaism. Magen Tzedek certification is not a kashrut certification which certifies that food is kosher in that it meets certain requirements regarding ingredients of food and technical methods of animal slaughter, but an ethical certification complementary to conventional kosher certification. \n\nMagen Tzedek was initiated by Conservative rabbi Morris Allen and was launched in 2011. It is sponsored by the Rabbinical Assembly, the American association of Conservative rabbis, the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism, the Central Conference of Reform Rabbis, and the Union for Reform Judaism. Magen Tzedek has met with harsh criticism from Orthodox Jewish rabbis and organizations. As of May 2013, no product bears the Magen Tzedek seal.\n\nMagen Tzedek certification was initiated by Conservative rabbi Morris Allen of Beth Jacob Congregation in Mendota Heights, Minnesota in 2007 following investigative reporting by Nathaniel Popper in \"The Jewish Daily Forward\" regarding working conditions at Agriprocessors kosher meat plant in Postville, Iowa. After a five-member rabbinic and lay commission visited the plant over two days and spoke with owners, senior managers and about 60 current or former workers and had reviewed reports from the State Department of Labor, Allen stated: “We weren’t able to verify everything Popper wrote, but what we did find was equally painful and filled with indignities”.<ref name=\"NYT2007/05/19\"> </ref> In 2008, a commission was formed to develop and apply “a set of standards that would certify that kosher food manufacturers in the US operate according to Jewish ethics and social values”. On January 31, 2011, the Magen Tzedek Commission was founded as an Illinois not-for-profit corporation with seed funding from the Nathan Cummings Foundation, which reportedly has given grants totaling at least $245,000 to Magen Tzedek since 2008.\n\nMagen Tzedek claims to combine the rabbinic tradition of Torah with Jewish values of social justice, certifying that the kosher food product has been produced in keeping with Jewish ethics in the area of labor concerns, animal welfare, environmental impact, consumer issues and corporate integrity.\nAccording to Magen Tzedek, food production should comply with various Biblical and rabbinic commandments which are ignored by conventional certifying agencies. As outlined in a paper titled \"Hekhsher Tzedek Al Pi Din\", authored by Rabbi Avraham Reisner of the Rabbinical Assembly, these laws include:\n\n\nAccording to Allen, it makes sense that the Conservative movement has taken the lead on the issue, as \"Conservative Judaism is uniquely positioned. We are committed to kashrut, which some other movements might not be, and also committed to social justice. The hekhsher tzedek is that point where halachic intensity meets ethical imperative.\"\n\nThe launching of Hekhsher and Magen Tzedek has been widely commented in the American Press. It has come under attack from Orthodox Jewish organizations and its representatives such as Rabbi Asher Zeilingold who was paid by Agriprocessors to oversee the plant and who had formerly collaborated with Allen, Rabbi Avi Shafran, director of public affairs of Agudath Israel of America, and the Satmar Hasidim. Agudath Israel of America has called the Magen Tzedek seal “a falsification of the Jewish religious heritage,” deploring it as an attempt “to redefine kashrut.” Those affiliated within Orthodox Judaism contend that it causes confusion about what is truly kosher, and criticize Magen Tzedek for allegedly downplaying kashrut by confusing it with social justice issues, claiming that it makes use of kashrut to follow secular political agendas. Shafran's criticism also includes the view that this certification is a stealthy way for the Conservative movement to enter the arena of kosher supervision making allowances for “contemporary society’s increasing approval of ‘alternate lifestyles’” in response to its loss of members. \n\nRabbi Menachem Genack, the chief kosher executive of the Orthodox Union, the largest kosher certifier in the United States told the \"New York Times\": “The issues raised — workers’ rights, safety, environmental issues — are not mundane issues. The question is one of implementation. These issues are best dealt with within the mandate of other agencies — federal and state. We believe they’re handling it properly and have the expertise and the authority to handle it.” However, according to the \"Jewish Daily Forward\", in an interview in 2013 with the Jewish Telegraphic Agency, Genack said that “If there is a company that wants to use Magen Tzedek, we will not object to it appearing on the label,” adding “we also would not object to them putting ‘halal’ on their label. These are marketing decisions the company makes on its own.”\nThe fact that Magen Tzedek limits its supervision to food and does not include other items has also been criticized, and questions have been raised about the employment policies of many Conservative congregations that do not follow the guidelines of Magen Tzedek for its own workers.\n\nMagen Tzedek, described as “an organization that certifies kosher food to standards that meet or exceed best practices for the treatment of workers, animals, and the environment” was invited to participate in the U.S. Department of Agriculture's second Food and Justice Passover Seder in April 2012. \nBut as of May 2013, not a single product bears their seal. Allen claims that Magen Tzedek has come under attack “just because we come from a different part of the Jewish people.” But, according to the \"Forward\", “that alone may not explain why Magen Tzedek has yet to gain any traction. The current standards include a plethora of specific requirements a company must fulfill to be certified as ethically kosher: categories and subcategories of labor practices, animal welfare conditions, consumer issues, and issues of corporate integrity, environmental impact, traceability of food supplies and record keeping.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29846088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29846088", "title": "Miguel Mendonca", "text": "Miguel Mendonca\n\nMiguel Mendonça (born August 1973, Salisbury, Rhodesia) is an Anglo-Azorean writer based in Bristol, England.\n\nMiguel studied Forestry at Sparsholt College, Landscape Management at Hadlow College, Journalism and Radio Production at FAS, Geography and History at University College Cork, and Social Science and Environmental Ethics at the Open University.\n\nMendonca's sustainability career is most associated with his work on feed-in tariffs, a renewable energy policy. He did advocacy and education work on this topic on four continents, contributing to legislative change in several countries. Much of this work was carried out while he served as Research Manager for the World Future Council, an international NGO. He subsequently worked with The Converging World, a renewable energy-focused charity based in Bristol, England.\n\nMiguel then worked for a short period as a freelance sustainability researcher and writer. He produced two key studies, the first reviewing the first year performance and outcomes of the UK feed-in tariff in 2011, and the second assessing \"The Green Economy in Bristol and the West of England\", which was published in January 2012. The latter assessed the size and make-up of the environmental technologies sector in the region at that time. It also surveyed the UK green policy environment, and summarised some of the other key aspects of a green economy, including sustainable design of goods and services, retail, food, and well-being. The report concluded with a call for 'Resilience Planning', an ongoing process of strategic collaboration between actors and stakeholders in the region, towards meeting local needs sustainably through investment in local assets. The integration and optimisation of food, energy and transport systems is central. The development of resilience should merge the agendas of sustainability, economic development, social capital development, participatory democracy and emergency planning.\n\nMiguel wrote and co-wrote several books, and numerous articles, book chapters and papers on sustainability and renewable energy policy. He is the author of \"Feed-in Tariffs: accelerating the deployment of renewable energy\", published by Earthscan in 2007. He is also co-author of \"Powering the Green Economy: The Feed-In Tariff Handbook\" (Earthscan, 2009) and \"A Renewable World: Energy, Ecology, Equality\" (Green Books, 2009).\n\nDuring this period Miguel held research fellowships at the University of Bristol and at Birkbeck College, University of London. He served on the advisory boards of the Alliance for Renewable Energy, Global Urban Development, Our Future Planet and Raw Foundation.\n\nHis first work of fiction, a collection of 11 short stories and a novella, was published as \"Quick! Act Normal\" in February 2013 under the pen name of Michael Ford. These stories explore human experience, and in particular our relationships with ourselves, each other and the world in which we live.\n\nIn late 2015 Miguel published \"Meet the Hybrids - The Lives and Missions of ET Ambassadors on Earth\". This non-fiction book explores the subject of ET-human hybrids from the inside, by interviewing eight individuals who understand that they are part-extraterrestrial and part-human. The book is co-authored with Barbara Lamb, a licensed marriage and family therapist, and regression therapist, who has for the last 25 years worked with over 1,700 clients with regard to extraterrestrial encounters.\n\nAt the 2016 International UFO Congress in Arizona, Barbara Lamb was joined on stage by six of the hybrids from the book. After an introduction from Barbara, each of the hybrids shared information about themselves, their experiences and their star families.\n\nIn the fall of 2016 Mendonca brought out a two-part people's history of the extraterrestrial subject, titled \"We Are the Disclosure\". Through interviews with 27 people who have been active in the field for a combined total of around 700 years, the books explore the scale and scope of the subject. It was inspired by the findings of \"Meet the Hybrids\", and set out to reflect the more spiritual narrative emerging from that community. The books cover the spectrum of interest in the field, running from the masculine-technological-historical-political aspects, to the feminine-wellbeing-metaphysical-spiritual aspects. Mendonca interviewed a wide variety of subjects, including scientists, journalists and therapists, many of whom claim ET contact in different forms. The book also examined the state of the field, looking at its development since 1947, and traced its connections deep into the human past. The varying opinions of top-down versus bottom-up 'Disclosure' of the ET presence on Earth were discussed. And it opened up a deeper dialogue on what this field tells us about the nature of being and the journey of the soul.\n\nIn March 2017 Mendonca published the final part of his trilogy on ET-human interaction, titled \"Being with the Beings - The How and the Why of ET Contact\". It is a study of ET-human contact experiences, in which nine long-term experiencers are interviewed. They include channelers, hybrids, artists and therapists. The key topics are how and why the contact takes place, and how it has shaped their lives. They share their contact techniques, and safety protocols. It is illustrated with diagrams, representations of the beings they are in contact with, and downloaded images including 'light language' and geometric designs.\n\nFollowing the conclusion of his trilogy on 'ET-human interaction', Mendonca learned stained glass and cast glass techniques. Under the banner of 'Lightworker Glass' he went on to produce a series of lamps, light shades in stained glass, and cast sculptural pieces, some featuring 'extraterrestrial' faces within them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49054665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49054665", "title": "Military cabinet", "text": "Military cabinet\n\nA military cabinet is any cabinet composed of members of the military. It may be an advisory body (staff) to a sovereign, head of government or other functionary, such as a minister of war, or it may be the executive cabinet of a military government.\n\nIn France, both the prime minister and the minister of defence have their own military cabinets (\"cabinets militaires\").\nHistorically, the rulers of France's colonies, such as the Resident-General in Morocco and the Governor-General of Indochina, had their own military cabinets.\n"}
{"id": "29433821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29433821", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Azerbaijan)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Azerbaijan)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture of Azerbaijan Republic () is a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Azerbaijan in charge of regulation of the activities and promotion of Azerbaijani culture. The ministry is headed by Abulfaz Garayev.\n\nThe ministry was established in May 1953 with a purpose of preservation, development, promotion of rich Azerbaijani culture and arts. The agency's included implementation of local and international cultural programs, projects and holding events in various countries. The objectives were to preserve and protect historical monuments and real estate, their renovation and use, modernization of libraries and museums, protection and promotion of Azerbaijani folklore, development of cultural clubs, resorts and parks, revitalization of tourism, development of theater, musical and other forms of arts, revitalization of cinema and book publications and so forth.\n\nThe ministry is headed by the minister with three deputy ministers. Main functions of the ministry are implementation of state policies in the tourism sector and promotion of Azerbaijani culture, formulation and implementation of short-, mid- and long-term strategies and programs, increasing activities in cultural sector among the youth, create conditions for every citizen to contribute to the cultural development in Azerbaijan, increase production of Azerbaijani films, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "16979110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16979110", "title": "Newton hearing", "text": "Newton hearing\n\nA Newton hearing or inquiry is a comparatively modern legal procedure in English law, used where the two sides offer such conflicting evidence that a judge sitting alone (that is, without a jury) tries to ascertain which party is telling the truth. They are generally used when a defendant pleads guilty to an offence (as in \"R v Newton\" itself), but there are factual issues (relating, for example, to the appropriate sentence) that need to be resolved between the prosecution and defence.\n\nThe name stems from a 1983 case, \"R v Newton\", in which the defendant admitted buggery but claimed his wife had given her consent. The Court of Appeal ruled that in such cases there were three ways of resolving the issue. It may be possible to obtain the answer from a Jury by directing them to consider whether there is the necessary intent for a specific offence or whether a lesser offence which does not require intent is made out. If that is not possible then \"either\" \n\nThe Newton Hearing itself operates like a \"mini trial\", with a judge deciding the disputed points based upon testimony and submissions, rather than a jury. The burden of proof is on the prosecution, who must prove their case beyond reasonable doubt.\n\nFor a defendant, there is a balance of risk and benefit to consider. As the Newton hearing takes court time, resources, and perhaps witness testimony, if unsuccessful it will reduce any sentencing credit that might otherwise have been obtained. This aspect has been criticized, on the basis that no such risk exists for the prosecutors, and therefore the Newton Hearing could \"allow unrealistic, bullying or foolhardy prosecutors to force defendants to choose between having a Newton hearing and playing it safe\". In this sense a Newton hearing may be seen as stacked heavily against a defendant, who must prove the entirety of their concern in order not to suffer from it:\n\nThese include:\n\nIn 2008, James Hamilton, then Director of Public Prosecutions, expressed doubt as to whether a Newton hearing would be compatible with the Constitution of Ireland's guarantee of the right to a jury trial. Nevertheless, such hearings have been held, including in an Anglo Irish Bank trial in 2014, and a trial in the juryless Special Criminal Court in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "56493248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56493248", "title": "Non-racialism", "text": "Non-racialism\n\nNon-racialism is an ideology rejecting racism and racialism while affirming liberal democratic ideals.\nIt became the official state policy of South Africa after April 1994, and it is enshrined in Chapter One of the Constitution of South Africa. It was also a prominent concept in the 1955 Freedom Charter.\n\nThe term has been criticized as vague, and carrying different meanings even among people sharing the same ideological tradition.\n\nThe earliest use of the term was by Karl Polanyi in the 1930s. Neville Alexander defines non-racialism as the acknowledgement of the nonexistence of race as a scientific fact. Robert Mugabe professed a belief in non-racialism in the early 1960s, but later rejected the concept and harshly criticized Nelson Mandela for his embrace of the ideology.\n\nNon-racialism is a stated core policy of the African National Congress. Power struggles between supporters of non-racialism and a black nationalist minority within the party led to establishment of the breakaway Pan Africanist Congress in 1959.\n"}
{"id": "50409020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50409020", "title": "Number 11 (novel)", "text": "Number 11 (novel)\n\nNumber 11 is a novel by British writer Jonathan Coe, published in 2015. The book explores the changing social, economical and cultural landscape of the United Kingdom in the early 21st century. It is connected to Coe's previous novel \"What a Carve Up!\", through shared themes and references to characters and events from the latter.\n\nThe book comprises five parts with interconnected plot lines and multiple points of view.\n\n\"The Black Tower\" takes place in rural Yorkshire in 2003, soon after the invasion of Iraq and the death of David Kelly. It follows the beginning of the friendship between ten-year-old girls Rachel and Alison as they try to decipher mysterious happenings around the village where Rachel's grandparents live. \"The Comeback\" is set in 2011 and focuses on Alison and her mother Val, now living in Birmingham. Alison, estranged from Rachel due to a misunderstanding after coming out as gay to her, is trying to form new relationships. Val, a former one-hit-wonder singer and a librarian facing reduced working hours, is offered the chance to appear on a reality show, which she accepts in the hopes of reviving her career. Although she gets along with the other participants, the footage is heavily edited to paint her in a bad light, leading to a hugely negative response from the audience. Alison watches horrified as her mother is made to undertake very unpleasant and humiliating tasks, until she returns home traumatised. \"The Crystal Garden\" follows Laura, a lecturer at Oxford University. Over the course of a weekend in 2011, she tells Rachel, now a student there, the story of her recently deceased husband's obsession with a short film he had seen as a child, and how the search for it led to his death.\"The Winshaw Prize\" is the story of how young policeman Nathan Pilbeam tries to find the connection between the apparently accidental deaths of two comedians. His approach, which advocates understanding the political and social context of a crime, allows him to not only predict the next target but identify the killer, a man who believes that comedy is making people complacent and is a danger to democracy.\n\nIn \"What a Whopper!\", Rachel is hired as a private tutor for the children of a very rich family. She lives in their house in Kensington, in a section reserved for staff, while work to build an extravagant eleven-level basement to the house is being undertaken. She meets Laura again, who has a new post trying to promote humanitarian values in a financial organisation. A chance encounter with Val, who now has to attend food banks for sustenance, leads to her reconnecting with Alison, serving a brief term in prison after being framed for benefit fraud. At the same time, secondary characters from throughout the novel who are wealthy residents of the area mysteriously go missing, with a promoted Pilbeam researching the case. Rachel struggles to understand and adapt to her employers' mentality, lifestyle and activities, which, along with personal difficulties, culminates in her having a breakdown. The final chapters show that Rachel, Alison and Val are recovering from their problems, while the missing people are implied to have been abducted in retribution for their past behaviour.\n\nIn a review for the \"Financial Times\", Suzi Feay described the novel as \"a richly enjoyable, densely textured and thought-provoking entertainment\". In \"The Scotsman\", Allan Massie wrote a good review, concluding that \"one should be grateful for any novel which, like this one, is devoted to the great cause of cheering us all up, no matter how indignant the author may often be.\". Meanwhile, Erica Wagner of the \"New Statesman\" concluded that while the novel could be seen as preachy, it makes good points about London under austerity measures.\n\nHowever, Robert Epstein of \"The Independent\" deplored that the novel was \"too obvious, both in its targets and in their subsequent takedown\". In \"The London Evening Standard\", Andrew Neather conceded that the novel was \"first-class entertainment\", but he lamented that it did not live up to a proper satire. Reviewing it for \"The Guardian\", Alex Clark called it \"a political novel\" as well as an \"interrogation of the purposes and efficacy of humour in exposing society’s ills, and a spoof on horror B-movies\"\n"}
{"id": "51820813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51820813", "title": "Opposition (Serbia)", "text": "Opposition (Serbia)\n\nIn Serbia, the Opposition () is all of the political parties represented in the National Assembly that are not a part of the Government supported by the parliamentary majority.\n\nThe Leader of the Opposition () is the unofficial title held by the leader of the largest party of the opposition.\n\nIn the 11th assembly of the Serbian Parliament (2016–present), the parties in parliament that include the opposition are:\n\nThe leader of the opposition is Vojislav Šešelj, leader of the Serbian Radical Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "12235899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12235899", "title": "Originating application", "text": "Originating application\n\nAn originating application is the first, provisional, or primary application in any legal process, such as a lawsuit, application for a real estate mortgage, patent, or bankruptcy petition.\n\nIn Australia, it is the first claim made in its Supreme Court.\n\nIn England, it is a term describing the initial bankruptcy petition. It may also be used in England for administrative appeals.\n\nIn the United States, an originating application is usually reserved for the first form filed to secure a bank loan or mortgage.\n\n"}
{"id": "37266728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37266728", "title": "Ottawa Protocol", "text": "Ottawa Protocol\n\nThe Ottawa Protocol on Combating Antisemitism is an action plan which \"note and reaffirm the London Declaration on Combating Antisemitism as a template document for the fight against Antisemitism\". It was developed during the second annual Conference and Summit of the Inter-parliamentary Coalition for Combating Antisemitism (ICCA) which took place in Ottawa in November, 2010, by Parliamentarians and experts from over 50 countries around the globe. It endorsed the Working Definition of Antisemitism.\n\nThe ICCA has brought together some 46 countries and over 250 parliamentarians from around the world to lead the fight against global Antisemitism. The ICCA's principal purpose is to share knowledge, experience and recommendations in an attempt to deal more effectively with contemporary Antisemitism (i.e. old and new antisemitism).\nThe first annual conference of the \"Inter-parliamentary Coalition for Combating Antisemitism\" was held in London, England in February, 2009. Canada has hosted the second gathering of the ICCA, from November 7-9th, 2010, in Ottawa. The conference \"provided the opportunity for delegates to explore data and exchange best practices to learn about the best ways to combat Antisemitism around the world\". The Ottawa Protocol was the outcome of the 2010 Conference on Combating Antisemitism.\n\nThe protocol deals with 3 fundamental issues:\n\nJason Kenney, Canada Immigration and Multiculturalism Minister, has said: \n\nJohn Baird, Canada Foreign Affairs Minister has said:\n\nProfessor Irwin Cotler, MP and Chair of the Inter-Parliamentary Coalition for Combating Antisemitism, said that:\n\nKenneth L. Marcus, Director, Initiative to Combat Anti-Semitism and Anti-Israelism in America's Educational Systems, has written:\n"}
{"id": "41420658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41420658", "title": "Party of Farmers and Labourers", "text": "Party of Farmers and Labourers\n\nThe Party of Farmers and Labourers () was a political party in Greece in the 1950s.\n\nThe party first contested national elections in 1950, when it won three seats in the Hellenic Parliament with 2.6% of the vote. However, it did not contest any further elections.\n"}
{"id": "24250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24250", "title": "Polish Corridor", "text": "Polish Corridor\n\nThe Polish Corridor (; ), also known as Danzig Corridor, Corridor to the Sea or Gdańsk Corridor, was a territory located in the region of Pomerelia (Pomeranian Voivodeship, eastern Pomerania, formerly part of West Prussia), which provided the Second Republic of Poland (1920–1939) with access to the Baltic Sea, thus dividing the bulk of Germany from the province of East Prussia. The Free City of Danzig (now the Polish city of Gdańsk) was separate from both Poland and Germany. A similar territory, also occasionally referred to as a corridor, had been connected to the Polish Crown as part of Royal Prussia during the period 1466–1772.\n\nAccording to German historian Hartmut Boockmann the term \"Corridor\" was first used by Polish politicians, while Polish historian Grzegorz Lukomski writes that the word was coined by German nationalist propaganda of the 1920s. Internationally the term was used in the English language already as early as March 1919 and whatever its origins, it became a widespread term in English language usage.\n\nThe equivalent German term is \"Polnischer Korridor\". Polish names include \"korytarz polski\" (\"Polish corridor\") and \"korytarz gdański\" (\"Gdańsk corridor\"); however, reference to the region as a corridor came to be regarded as offensive by interwar Polish diplomats. Among the harshest critics of the term \"corridor\" was Polish Foreign Minister Józef Beck, who in his May 5, 1939 speech in Sejm (Polish parliament) said: \"I am insisting that the term \"Pomeranian Voivodeship\" should be used. The word \"corridor\" is an artificial idea, as this land has been Polish for centuries, with a small percentage of German settlers\". Poles would commonly refer to the region as \"Pomorze Gdańskie\" (\"Gdańsk Pomerania, Pomerelia\") or simply \"Pomorze\" (\"Pomerania\"), or as \"województwo pomorskie\" (\"Pomeranian Voivodeship\"), which was the administrative name for the region.\n\nIn the 10th century, Pomerelia was settled by Slavic Pomeranians, ancestors of the Kashubians, who were subdued by Boleslaw I of Poland. In the 11th century, they created an independent duchy. In 1116/1121, Pomerania was again conquered by Poland. In 1138, following the death of Duke Bolesław III, Poland was fragmented into several semi-independent principalities. The Samborides, \"principes\" in Pomerelia, gradually evolved into independent dukes, who ruled the duchy until 1294. Before Pomerelia regained independence in 1227, their dukes were vassals of Poland and Denmark. Since 1308, following succession wars between Poland and Brandenburg, Pomerelia was subjugated by the Monastic state of the Teutonic Knights in Prussia. In 1466, with the second Peace of Thorn, Pomerelia became part of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth as a part of autonomous Royal Prussia. After the First Partition of Poland in 1772 it was annexed by the Kingdom of Prussia and named West Prussia, and became a constituent part of the new German Empire in 1871. Thus the Polish Corridor was not an entirely new creation: the territory assigned to Poland had been an integral part of Poland prior to 1772, but with a large degree of autonomy.\n\nPerhaps the earliest census data on ethnic or national structure of West Prussia (including areas which later became the Polish Corridor) is from 1817-1823.\nAfter the First World War, Poland was to be re-established as an independent state. Since a Polish state had not existed since the Congress of Vienna, the future republic's territory had to be defined.\n\nGiving Poland access to the sea was one of the guarantees proposed by United States President Woodrow Wilson in his Fourteen Points of 1918. The thirteenth of Wilson's points was:\n\nThe following arguments were behind the creation of the corridor:\n\nEthnic situation was one of the reasons for returning the area to the restored Poland. The majority of the population in the area was Polish. As the Polish commission report to the Allied Supreme Council noted on 12 March 1919: \"Finally the fact must be recognised that 600,000 Poles in West Prussia would under any alternative plan remain under German rule\". The Prussian census of 1910 showed that there were 528,000 Poles (including West Slavic Kashubians, who had supported the Polish national lists in German elections) in the region compared with 385,000 Germans (including troops stationed in the area). The Poles did not want the Polish population to remain under the control of the German state, which had in the past treated the Polish population and other minorities as second-class citizens and pursued Germanization. As Professor Lewis Bernstein Namier (1888–1960) born to Jewish parents in Lublin Governorate (Russian Empire, former Congress Poland) and later a British citizen, a former member of the British Intelligence Bureau throughout World War I and the British delegation at the Versailles conference, known for his anti-Polish and anti-German attitude, wrote in the \"Manchester Guardian\" on November 7, 1933: \"The Poles are the Nation of the Vistula, and their settlements extend from the sources of the river to its estuary. … It is only fair that the claim of the river-basin should prevail against that of the seaboard.\"\n\nThe Poles held the view that without direct access to the Baltic Sea, Poland's economic independence would be illusory. Around 60.5% of Polish import trade and 55.1% of exports went through the area. The report of the Polish Commission presented to the Allied Supreme Council said: \nThe United Kingdom eventually accepted this argument. The suppression of the Polish Corridor would have abolished the economic ability of Poland to resist dependence on Germany. As Lewis Bernstein Namier, Professor of Modern History at the University of Manchester and known for both his \"legendary hatred of Germany\" and Germanophobia as well as his anti-Polish attitude directed against what he defined as the \"aggressive, antisemitic and warmongerily imperialist\" part of Poland, wrote in a newspaper article in 1933:\nBy 1938, 77.7% of Polish exports left either through Gdańsk (31.6%) or the newly built port of Gdynia (46.1%)\n\nDuring World War I, the Central Powers had forced the Imperial Russian troops out of Congress Poland and Galicia, as manifested in the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk on 3 March 1918. Following the military defeat of Austria-Hungary, an independent Polish republic was declared in Western Galicia on 3 November 1918, the same day Austria signed the armistice. The collapse of Imperial Germany's Western Front, and the subsequent withdrawal of her remaining occupation forces after the Armistice of Compiègne on 11 November allowed the republic led by Roman Dmowski and Józef Piłsudski to seize control over the former Congress Polish areas. Also in November, the revolution in Germany forced the Kaiser's abdication and gave way to the establishment of the Weimar Republic. Starting in December, the Polish-Ukrainian War expanded the Polish republic's territory to include Volhynia and parts of Eastern Galicia, while at the same time the German Province of Posen (where even according to the German made 1910 census 61,5% of the population was Polish) was severed by the Greater Poland uprising, which succeeded in attaching most of the province's territory to Poland by January 1919. This led Weimar's Otto Landsberg and Rudolf Breitscheid to call for an armed force to secure Germany's remaining eastern territories (some of which contained significant Polish minorities, primarily on the former Prussian partition territories). The call was answered by the minister of defense Gustav Noske, who decreed support for raising and deploying volunteer \"Grenzschutz\" forces to secure East Prussia, Silesia and the Netze District.\n\nOn 12 January, the Paris peace conference opened, resulting in the draft of the Treaty of Versailles 28 June 1919. Articles 27 and 28 of the treaty ruled on the territorial shape of the corridor, while articles 89 to 93 ruled on transit, citizenship and property issues. Per the terms of the Versailles treaty, which was put into effect on 20 January 1920, the corridor was established as Poland's access to the Baltic Sea from 70% of the dissolved province of West Prussia, consisting of a small part of Pomerania with around 140 km of coastline including the Hel Peninsula, and 69 km without it.\n\nThe primarily German-speaking seaport of Danzig (Gdańsk), controlling the estuary of the main Polish waterway, the Vistula river, became the Free City of Danzig and was placed under the protection of the League of Nations without a plebiscite. After the dock workers of Danzig harbour went on strike at a critical moment during the Polish–Soviet War, refusing to unload ammunition, the Polish Government decided to build a new seaport at Gdynia in the territory of the Corridor, and connected this seaport to the Upper Silesian industrial centers by the newly constructed Polish Coal Trunk Line railways.\n\nThe German author Christian Raitz von Frentz writes that after First World War ended, the Polish government tried to reverse the systematic Germanization from former decades. Frederick the Great (King in/of Prussia from 1740 to 1786) settled around 300,000 colonists in the eastern provinces of Prussia and aimed at a removal of the Polish nobility, which he treated with contempt. Frederick also described Poles as \"slovenly Polish trash\" and compared them to the Iroquois. On the other hand, he encouraged administrators and teachers who could speak both German and Polish.\nPrussia pursued a second colonization aimed at Germanisation after 1832. The Prussians passed laws aiming at Germanisation of the provinces of Posen and West Prussia in the late 19th century. The Prussian Settlement Commission established a further 154,000 colonists, including locals, in the provinces of Posen and West Prussia before World War I. Military personnel were included in the population census. A number of German civil servants and merchants were introduced to the area, which influenced the population status.\n\nAccording to Richard Blanke, an American historian of German descent, 421,029 Germans lived in the area in 1910, making up 42.5% of the population. Blanke has been criticised by Christian Raitz von Frentz, who has classified his book as part of a series on the subject that has an anti-Polish bias; additionally Polish professor A. Cienciala has described Blanke's views as sympathetic to Germany. In addition to the military personnel included in the population census, a number of German civil-servants and merchants were introduced to the area, which influenced the population mix, according to Andrzej Chwalba. By 1921 the proportion of Germans had dropped to 18.8% (175,771). Over the next decade, the German population decreased by another 70,000 to a share of 9.6%.\n\nGerman political scientist Stefan Wolff, Professor at the University of Birmingham, says that the actions of Polish state officials after the corridor's establishment followed \"a course of assimilation and oppression\". As a result, a large number of Germans left Poland after 1918: according to Wolff, 800,000 Germans had left Poland by 1923, according to Gotthold Rhode, 575,000 left the former province of Posen and the corridor after the war, according to Herrmann Rauschning, 800,000 Germans had left between 1918 and 1926, contemporary author Alfons Krysinski estimated 800,000 plus 100,000 from East Upper Silesia, the contemporary German statistics say 592,000 Germans had left by 1921, other Polish scholars say that up to a million Germans left. Polish author Władysław Kulski says that a number of them were civil servants with no roots in the province and around 378,000, and this is to a lesser degree is confirmed by some German sources such as Hermann Rauschning.\nLewis Bernstein Namier raised the question as to whether many of the Germans who left were actually settlers without roots in the area - Namier remarked in 1933 \"a question must be raised how many of those Germans had originally been planted artificially in that country by the Prussian Government.\"\n\nThe above-mentioned Richard Blanke, in his book \"Orphans of Versailles\", gives several reasons for the exodus of the German population:\n\n\nBlanke says that official encouragement by the Polish state played a secondary role in the German exodus. Christian Raitz von Frentz notes \"that many of the repressive measures were taken by local and regional Polish authorities in defiance of Acts of Parliament and government decrees, which more often than not conformed with the minorities treaty, the Geneva Convention and their interpretation by the League council - though it is also true that some of the central authorities tacitly tolerated local initiatives against the German population.\" While there were demonstrations and protests and occasional violence against Germans, they were at a local level, and officials were quick to point out that they were a backlash against former discrimination against Poles. There were other demonstrations when Germans showed disloyalty during the Polish-Bolshevik war as the Red Army announced the return to the pre-war borders of 1914. Despite popular pressure and occasional local actions, perhaps as many as 80% of Germans emigrated more or less voluntarily.\n\nHelmut Lippelt writes that Germany used the existence of German minority in Poland for political ends and as part of its revisionist demands, which resulted in Polish countermeasures. Polish Prime Minister Władysław Sikorski stated in 1923 that the de-Germanization of these territories had to be ended by vigorous and quick liquidation of property and eviction of German \"Optanten\" (Germans who refused to accept Polish citizenship and per the Versailles Treaty were to leave Poland) so that German nationalists would realise that their view of the temporary state of Polish western border was wrong.\nTo Lippelt this was partially a reaction to the German claims and partially Polish nationalism, urging to exclude the German element. In turn, anti-Polish prejudice fueled German policy.\n\nIn the period leading up to the East Prussian plebiscite in July 1920, the Polish authorities tried to prevent traffic through the Corridor, interrupting postal, telegraphic and telephone communication. On March 10, 1920, the British representative on the Marienwerder Plebiscite Commission, H.D. Beaumont, wrote of numerous continuing difficulties being made by Polish officials and added \"as a result, the ill-will between Polish and German nationalities and the irritation due to Polish intolerance towards the German inhabitants in the Corridor (now under their rule), far worse than any former German intolerance of the Poles, are growing to such an extent that it is impossible to believe the present settlement (borders) can have any chance of being permanent... It can confidently be asserted that not even the most attractive economic advantages would induce any German to vote Polish. If the frontier is unsatisfactory now, it will be far more so when it has to be drawn on this side (of the river) with no natural line to follow, cutting off Germany from the river bank and within a mile or so of Marienwerder, which is certain to vote German. I know of no similar frontier created by any treaty.\"\n\nThe German Ministry for Transport established the \"Seedienst Ostpreußen\" (\"Sea Service East Prussia\") in 1922 to provide a ferry connection to East Prussia, now a German exclave, so that it would be less dependent on transit through Polish territory.\n\nConnections by train were also possible by \"sealing\" the carriages (\"Korridorzug\"), i.e. passengers were not forced to apply for an official Polish visa in their passport; however, the rigorous inspections by the Polish authorities before and after the sealing were strongly feared by the passengers.\n\nIn May 1925 a train, passing through the Corridor on its way to East Prussia, crashed because the spikes had been removed from the tracks for a short distance and the fishplates unbolted. 25 persons, including 12 women and 2 children, were killed, some 30 others were injured.\n\nAccording to Polish Historian Andrzej Chwalba, during the rule of the Kingdom of Prussia and the German Empire various means were used to increase the amount of land owned by Germans at the expense of the Polish population. In Prussia, the Polish nobility had its estates confiscated after the Partitions, and handed over to German nobility. The same applied to Catholic monasteries. Later, the German Empire bought up land in an attempt to prevent the restoration of a Polish majority in Polish inhabited areas in its eastern provinces.\nChristian Raitz von Frentz notes that measures aimed at reversing past Germanization included the liquidation of farms settled by the German government during the war under the 1908 law.\n\nIn 1925 the Polish government enacted a land reform program with the aim of expropriating landowners. While only 39% of the agricultural land in the Corridor was owned by Germans, the first annual list of properties to be reformed included 10,800 hectares from 32 German landowners and 950 hectares from seven Poles. The voivode of Pomorze, Wiktor Lamot, stressed that \"the part of Pomorze through which the so-called corridor runs must be cleansed of larger German holdings\". The coastal region \"must be settled with a nationally conscious Polish population... Estates belonging to Germans must be taxed more heavily to encourage them voluntarily to turn over land for settlement. Border counties... particularly a strip of land ten kilometers wide, must be settled with Poles. German estates that lie here must be reduced without concern for their economic value or the views of their owners'.\n\nProminent politicians and members of the German minority were the first to be included on the land reform list and to have their property expropriated.\n\nThe creation of the corridor aroused great resentment in Germany, and all post-war German Weimar governments refused to recognize the eastern borders agreed at Versailles, and refused to follow Germany's acknowledgment of its western borders in the Treaty of Locarno of 1925 with a similar declaration with respect to its eastern borders.\n\nInstitutions in Weimar Germany supported and encouraged German minority organizations in Poland, in part radicalized by the Polish policy towards them, in filing close to 10,000 complaints about violations of minority rights to the League of Nations.\n\nPoland in 1931 declared her commitment to peace, but pointed out that any attempt to revise its borders would mean war. Additionally, in conversation with U.S. President Herbert Hoover, Polish delegate Filipowicz noted that any continued provocations by Germany could tempt the Polish side to invade, in order to settle the issue once and for all.\n\nThe Nazi Party, led by Adolf Hitler, took power in Germany in 1933. Hitler at first ostentatiously pursued a policy of rapprochement with Poland, culminating in the ten-year Polish-German Non-Aggression Pact of 1934. In the years that followed, Germany placed an emphasis on rearmament, as did Poland and other European powers. Despite this, the Nazis were able to achieve their immediate goals without provoking armed conflict: in 1938 Nazi Germany annexed Austria and the Sudetenland after the Munich Agreement. In October 1938, Germany tried to get Poland to join the Anti-Comintern Pact. Poland refused, as the alliance was rapidly becoming a sphere of influence of an increasingly powerful Germany.\nFollowing negotiations with Hitler on the Munich Agreement, British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain reported that, \"He told me privately, and last night he repeated publicly, that after this Sudeten German question is settled, that is the end of Germany's territorial claims in Europe\". Almost immediately following the agreement, however, Hitler reneged on it. The Nazis increased their requests for the incorporation of the Free City of Danzig into the Reich, citing the \"protection\" of the German majority as a motive.\nIn November 1938, Danzig's district administrator, Albert Forster, reported to the League of Nations that Hitler had told him Polish frontiers would be guaranteed if the Poles were \"reasonable like the Czechs.\" German State Secretary Ernst von Weizsäcker reaffirmed this alleged guarantee in December 1938.\n\nThe situation regarding the Free City and the Polish Corridor created a number of headaches for German and Polish Customs. The Germans requested the construction of an extra-territorial \"Reichsautobahn\" freeway (to complete the \"Reichsautobahn Berlin-Königsberg\") and railway through the Polish Corridor, effectively annexing Polish territory and connecting East Prussia to Danzig and Germany proper, while cutting off Poland from the sea and its main trade route. If Poland agreed, in return they would extend the non-aggression pact for 25 years.\n\nThis seemed to conflict with Hitler's plans and with Poland's rejection of the Anti-Comintern Pact, and his desire either to isolate or to gain support against the Soviet Union. German newspapers in Danzig and Nazi Germany played an important role in inciting nationalist sentiment: headlines buzzed about how Poland was misusing its economic rights in Danzig and German Danzigers were increasingly subjugated to the will of the Polish state. At the same time, Hitler also offered Poland additional territory as an enticement, such as the possible annexation of Lithuania, the Memel Territory, Soviet Ukraine and Czech inhabited lands.\n\nIn 1939, Nazi Germany made another attempt to renegotiate the status of Danzig; Poland was to retain a permanent right to use the seaport if the route through the Polish Corridor was to be constructed. However, the Polish administration distrusted Hitler and saw the plan as a threat to Polish sovereignty, practically subordinating Poland to the Axis and the Anti-Comintern Bloc while reducing the country to a state of near-servitude as its entire trade would be dependent on Germany.\n\nHitler used the issue of the status city as pretext for attacking Poland, while explaining during a high level meeting of German military officials in May 1939 that his real goal is obtaining \"Lebensraum\" for Germany, isolating Poles from their Allies in the West and afterwards attacking Poland, thus avoiding the repeat of the Czech situation.\n\nA revised and less favorable proposal came in the form of an ultimatum delivered by the Nazis in late August, after the orders had already been given to attack Poland on September 1, 1939. Nevertheless, at midnight on August 29, Joachim von Ribbentrop handed British Ambassador Sir Neville Henderson a list of terms that would allegedly ensure peace in regard to Poland. Danzig was to return to Germany and there was to be a plebiscite in the Polish Corridor; Poles who had been born or had settled there since 1919 would have no vote, while all Germans born but not living there would. An exchange of minority populations between the two countries was proposed. If Poland accepted these terms, Germany would agree to the British offer of an international guarantee, which would include the Soviet Union. A Polish plenipotentiary, with full powers, was to arrive in Berlin and accept these terms by noon the next day. The British Cabinet viewed the terms as \"reasonable,\" except the demand for a Polish Plenipotentiary, which was seen as similar to Czechoslovak President Emil Hácha accepting Hitler's terms in mid-March 1939.\n\nWhen Ambassador Józef Lipski went to see Ribbentrop on August 30, he was presented with Hitler’s demands. However, he did not have the full power to sign and Ribbentrop ended the meeting. News was then broadcast that Poland had rejected Germany's offer.\n\nOn September 1, 1939, Germany invaded Poland. German forces defeated the Polish Army Pomorze tasked with the defense of this region and captured the corridor during the Battle of Tuchola Forest by September 5. Other notable battles took place at Westerplatte, the Polish post office in Danzig, Oksywie, and Hel.\n\nMost of the area was inhabited by Poles, Germans, and Kashubians. The census of 1910 showed that there were 528,000 Poles (including West Slavic Kashubians) compared to 385,000 Germans in the region. The census included German soldiers stationed in the area as well as public officials sent to administer the area.\nSince 1886, a Settlement Commission was set up by Prussia to enforce German settlement while at the same time Poles, Jews and Germans migrated west during the Ostflucht.\nIn 1921 the proportion of Germans in Pomerania (where the Corridor was located) was 18.8% (175,771). Over the next decade, the German population decreased by another 70,000 to a share of 9.6%.</small> There was also a Jewish minority. in 1905, Kashubians numbered about 72,500.\nAfter the occupation by Nazi Germany, a census was made by the German authorities in December 1939. 71% of people declared themselves as Poles, 188,000 people declared Kashubian as their language, 100,000 of those declared themselves Polish.\n\nAt the 1945 Potsdam Conference following the German defeat in World War II, Poland's borders were reorganized at the insistence of the Soviet Union, which occupied the entire area. Territories east of the Oder-Neisse line, including Danzig, were put under Polish administration. The Potsdam Conference did not debate about the future of the territories that were part of western Poland before the war, including the corridor. It automatically became part of the reborn state in 1945.\n\nGerman residents were expelled to the Soviet occupation zone, which later became East Germany.\n\nIn \"The Shape of Things to Come\", published in 1933, H. G. Wells predicted the Corridor as the starting point of a future Second World War.\n\nOther land corridors linking a country either to the sea or to a remote part of the country are:\n\n"}
{"id": "488594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=488594", "title": "Political commissar", "text": "Political commissar\n\nIn the military, a political commissar or political officer (or politruk, a portmanteau from , \"political leader\", \"political official\"), is a supervisory officer responsible for the political education (ideology) and organization of the unit they are assigned to, and intended to ensure civilian control of the military.\n\nThe function first appeared as \"commissaire politique\" (political commissioner) in the French Revolutionary Army during the Revolution (1789–99). It also existed, with interruptions, in the Soviet Red Army from 1918 to 1942, as well as in the armed forces of Nazi Germany from 1943 to 1945. The function remains in use in China's People's Liberation Army.\n\nThe political commissar is often associated with the Soviet Union (1922–91), where the Cheka introduced them to the military forces to ensure the government’s political control. The chief reason was because the newly created Red revolutionary military units were associated with different, often conflicting political parties, and there were so many leftist political parties and movements at that time, whose doctrines paralleled closely to that of the bolsheviks, and all of them had party members and sympathizers among the military, and tried to use that to their own benefit (Left SRs were among the hard-nosed competitors, who were popular among the lower ranks no less than bolsheviks, contesting them quite frequently) which was a matter of life and death during the ongoing civil war against the White movement. To avoid disorder and unify the command, gaining a permanent control over the entire military, the bolsheviks introduced the comissarship. After the SRs were left behind the issue, the forces loyal to them split off from the Red Army to create the Green armies, guerrilla war errupted soon at a countryside along with the civil war. The commissars' task was to prevent the warfighters, both commanding officers and troops, from tending towards the rivalrious political authorities. There were many examples of defiance and outspoken disobedience, when the troops killed or banished their commissars and switched sides, going Green. After the bolsheviks eliminated all their rivals and became the one and only political entity in the country, creating a one-party dictatorship, the commissarship remained rather a relic.\n\nAn early kind of political commissars arose already during the February Revolution 1917 as the Ispolkom issued the controversial Order no 1. As the Bolsheviks came to power through the October Revolution 1917, and as the Russian Civil War began, Trotsky who then gradually established the Red Army, imposed the formal political officers. These were almost invariably tasked to make sure the Communist Party of the respective country could count on the loyalty of the Army. Although there was a huge difference between the February Revolution and the October Revolution, their leaders both feared a counter-revolution, and both regarded the military officers as the most likely counter-revolutionary threat.\n\nIn the Red Army and the Soviet Army, the \"political commissar\" (\"\") existed, by name, only during the 1918–24, 1937–40, and 1941–42 periods; not every Red Army political officer was a commissar. The political commissar held military rank equaling that of the unit commander to whom he was attached; moreover, the commissar also had the military authority to countermand the unit commander’s orders when required. In the periods of the Red Army's history when political officers were militarily subordinate to unit commanders, the position of political commissar did not exist.\n\nThe political supervision of the Russian military was effected by the political commissar, who was introduced to every unit and formation, from company- to division-level, including the navy. Revolutionary Military Councils (or Revvoyensoviets- RVS) were established at army-, front-, fleet-, and flotilla-level, comprising at least three members—commander and two political workers. The political workers were denominated \"members of the RVS\", not \"commissars\", despite being official political commissars.\n\nIn 1919, the title \"politruk\" () was assigned to political officers at company level. Despite being official political commissars, they were not addressed as \"commissar\". Beginning in 1925, the politico-military doctrinal course towards \"edinonachalie\" (, single command) was established, and the political commissar, as a military institution, was gradually abolished. The introduction of \"edinonachalie\" was twofold, either the military commander joined the Communist Party and became his unit’s political officer, or a \"pompolit\" (, assistant commander for political work) officer was commissioned sub-ordinate to him. Earlier, in 1924, the RVSs were renamed as Military Councils, such high-level political officers were known as ChVS (\"Chlen Voennogo Soveta\", Member of the Military Council), they were abolished in 1934.\n\nOn 10 May 1937 the political commissar was reinstated to the Red Army, and Military Councils were created. These events derived from the political purges that began in the Soviet armed forces. Again, in August 1940, the political commissars was abolished, yet the Military Councils continued throughout the German-Soviet War (1941–45), and afterwards. Below army level, the \"edinonachalie\" (single command) system was restored. In July 1941, consequent to the Red Army’s defeats at war’s start, the position of political commissar reappeared. The commissar had an influential role as a \"second commander\" within the military units during this time. Their ranks and insignia generally paralleled those of officers. When this proved less-than-effective, General Konev asked Stalin to subordinate the political officer to commanding officers: the commissars' work was refocused to morale-related functions. The term \"commissar\" itself was formally abolished in August 1942, and at the company- and regiment-level, the \"pompolit\" officer was replaced with the \"zampolit\" (deputy for political matters). Though no longer known by the original \"commissar\" title, political officers were retained by all the Soviet Armed Forces, e.g., Army, Navy, Air Force, Strategic Missile Troops, \"et al\", until the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\nAfter World War II, other Eastern Bloc armies also used political officers patterned on the Soviet model. For example, East Germany's \"Nationale Volksarmee\" used \"Politoffiziere\" as the unit commander's deputy responsible for political education.\n\n\nFrom December 1943 until the defeat of Nazi Germany, the German armed forces created a network of political instructors to maintain National Socialist indoctrination of the \"Wehrmacht\". The officers, called \"Nationalsozialistische Führungsoffiziere\" (NSFO; \"National Socialist Leadership Officers\"), drawn from convinced officers and selected by Martin Bormann, Head of the Nazi Party Chancellery, to instill ideological conviction and reinforce combat morale through training lessons and teaching. They had no direct influence on combat decisions as had the political commissar in the Soviet Army. At the end of 1944 more than 1,100 full-time and about 47,000 part-time instructors had been trained, under the control of General Hermann Reinecke, commander of the National Socialist leadership staff at the OKW.\n\nThe position of political commissar (\"zhengwei\", ) also exists in the People's Liberation Army of China. Usually, the political commissar is a uniformed military officer, although this position has been used to give civilian party officials some experience with the military. The political commissar was head of a party cell within the military; however, military membership in the party has been restricted to the lower ranks since the 1980s. Today the political commissar is largely responsible for administrative tasks such as public relations and counseling, and mainly serves as second-in-command.\n\nThe position of political commissar () also exists in the Republic of China Army of the Republic of China (Taiwan). Chiang Ching-kuo, appointed as Kuomintang (Chinese Nationalist Party) director of Secret Police in 1950, was educated in the Soviet Union, and initiated Soviet style military organization in the Republic of China Military, reorganizing and Sovietizing the political officer corps, surveillance, and Kuomintang party activities were propagated throughout the military. Opposed to this was Sun Li-jen, who was educated at the American Virginia Military Institute. Chiang Ching-kuo then arrested Sun Li-jen, charging him of conspiring with the American CIA of plotting to overthrow Chiang Kaishek and the Kuomintang. Sun was placed under house arrest in 1955.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1132439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1132439", "title": "Referendums related to the European Union", "text": "Referendums related to the European Union\n\nThis is a list of referendums related to the European Union, or referendums related to the European Communities, which were predecessors of the European Union. Since 1972, a total of 48 referendums have been held by EU member states, candidate states, and their territories, with several additional referendums held in countries outside of the EU. The referendums have been held most commonly on the subject of whether to become a member of European Union as part of the accession process, although the EU does not require any candidate country to hold a referendum to approve membership or as part of treaty ratification. Other EU-related referendums have been held on the adoption of the euro and on participation in other EU-related policies.\n\nThe United Kingdom is the only EU member state to have held referendums on continued membership of the European Union and its antecedent organisation, the European Communities. In the first referendum in 1975, continued membership of what was then the European Communities (which included the European Economic Community, often referred to as the \"Common Market\" in the UK) was approved by 67.2% of voters, while in its second referendum in 2016 voters voted by 51.9% to leave the European Union.\n\nGreenland, an autonomous territory of Denmark, voted to leave the EC in a referendum in 1982 by 53% of voters.\n\nIn 1972, four countries held referendums on the subject of the 1973 enlargement of the European Communities.\n\n\nDenmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom were admitted as members of the EC, acceding on 1 January 1973.\n\n\n\nTwo referendums were held in EU countries to permit them to ratify the Single European Act.\n\n\n\nIn 1994, four countries, and one dependency, held referendums on membership of the EU, resulting in the 1995 enlargement of the European Union.\n\n\nAustria, Sweden, and Finland were admitted as members of the EU, acceding on 1 January 1995.\n\nTwo countries held referendums on the ratification of the treaty of Amsterdam.\n\n\n\nThe 2004 enlargement of the European Union involved ten candidate states, eight from Central and Eastern Europe, and the Mediterranean islands of Malta and Cyprus. In 2003, referendums on joining the EU were held in all these nations except Cyprus.\n\n\nSince the results were in favourable in all cases, all ten candidate countries were admitted as members of the EU, acceding on 1 May 2004.\n\nDenmark and the United Kingdom received opt-outs from the Maastricht Treaty and do not have to join the euro unless they choose to do so; Sweden has not received an opt-out, yet deliberately does not live up to the requirements for joining for now. Two referendums have been held on the issue up to now, both of which rejected accession.\n\n\nSeveral member states used or intended to use referendums to ratify the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe (TCE).\n\n\nReferendums were planned, but not held, in:\n\n\nOnly one member state, Ireland, obliged by their constitution, decided on ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon through a referendum.\n\n\n\nCroatia was admitted as a member of the EU, acceding on 1 July 2013.\n\n\nA referendum was held in San Marino on whether the country should submit an application to join the European Union as a full member state.\n\nThe Unified Patent Court is a proposed court between several EU member states, that, inter alia, is to be constituted for litigation related to the European Union patent.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCountries which seek to join the European Union in the future may hold a referendum as part of the accession process. In addition, Article 88-5 of the Constitution of France requires a referendum there to ratify any future accession treaty. Politicians in other existing members have proposed referendums in their states, particularly with reference to the accession of Turkey.\n\nThere is discussion amongst eurosceptic parties and movements across the EU to hold their own referendums on EU membership since the referendum in the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46745277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46745277", "title": "Robert Singleton (activist)", "text": "Robert Singleton (activist)\n\nRobert Singleton, also known as Bob Singleton (born 1936), is a civil rights activist. He and his wife Helen Singleton are known for being part of the Freedom Rides together in Jackson, Mississippi. He currently teaches economics at Loyola Marymount University, where he has been for over twenty years.\n\nRobert was born and raised in Philadelphia. He joined the army and served in Europe. When he came back from war, he went to school at the University of California, Los Angeles. This is where studied economics and also went for his undergraduate. In 1964, he received his Ph.D. and then went on to teach at UCLA for a few years. Robert began his activism at UCLA when he ran for president of their chapter for the NAACP. During his time on campus, he became inspired by the speakers that came and spoke, including James Farmer, Malcolm X, James Baldwin, and Langston Hughes, each of whom helped him realize the injustices in America. He first joined the sit-ins, where he met other activists and helped them organize events where they would find food and clothing, get sharecroppers to vote, and organize the freedom rider to Jackson, Mississippi. When he returned, the NAACP had been kicked out of the school, so it was replaced with a CORE group, of which he was chair.\n\nRobert Singleton and his wife are most known for the Freedom Rides that they took part of in Jackson, Mississippi. The south ignored the ruling that the U.S Supreme Court made about public transportation not being segregated because segregation was unconstitutional. As a result, they protested against segregation on public transportation. On July 30, 1961, when they got to Mississippi, Robert, his wife, and the other riders were arrested and sent to Parchmen Penitentiary. The conditions in the prison were harsh. They were put in maximum security, separated from each other, and placed next to the gas chambers. \"Three months after the freedom rides they were to desegregate public transportation. Robert and Helen Singleton were among the few married couples who participated in the Freedom Rides.\n"}
{"id": "5735719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5735719", "title": "South Africa Act 1909", "text": "South Africa Act 1909\n\nThe South Africa Act 1909 was an Act of the British Parliament which created the Union of South Africa from the British colonies of the Cape of Good Hope, Natal, Orange River Colony, and Transvaal. The Act also made provisions for admitting Rhodesia as a fifth province of the Union in the future, but Rhodesian colonists rejected this option in a referendum held in 1922. The South Africa Act was the third major piece of legislation passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom with the intent of uniting various British colonies and granting them some degree of autonomy. Earlier, the British North America Act, 1867 had united three colonies (Canada – which became Ontario and Quebec – Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick) and the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act, 1900 had united the Australian colonies.\n\n\"Main article: National Convention (South Africa)\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the Anglo-Boer War (1899–1902), Britain re-annexed the South African Republic and the Orange Free State, two hitherto independent Boer republics. These new territories, renamed the Transvaal Colony and the Orange River Colony respectively, were added to Britain's existing South African territories, the Cape Colony and Colony of Natal. It was British government policy to encourage these four colonies to come together in closer union; after the grant of responsible government to the Transvaal Colony and Orange River Colony in 1907, this aspiration was one that was also increasingly held by the Afrikaner population.\n\nThese political forces resulted in the 1908 National Convention, which met on 12 October 1908 and completed its work on 11 May 1909. This Convention settled on the terms and constitution of a governmental, legislative, and economic Union. These proposals were transmitted to the British government, which duly prepared a Bill to give effect to these wishes. The Bill was passed by Parliament on 20 September 1909 and on 20 September 1909 King Edward VII of the United Kingdom proclaimed that the Union of South Africa would be established on 31 May 1910. This Act, which essentially brought into being the South African state as it is known today, served as the South African constitution for over fifty years, during which time the Statute of Westminster greatly increased South Africa's independence from Britain. Although South Africa became a republic in 1961 and left the Commonwealth, the basic structure of the 1909 Act continued to live on in its replacement, the Republic of South Africa Constitution Act (32 of 1961). However, the last vestiges of the 1909 Act finally disappeared in 1983 when the apartheid-era government enacted a new constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa Act (110 of 1983).\n\nThe structure of the government of the Union of South Africa was similar to the government of other British Dominions. A Governor-General of South Africa was appointed to represent the British Monarch, who was also the Monarch of South Africa. Executive power was vested in the Monarch/Governor-General and was exercised on the advice of the Executive Council. Though not explicitly provided for by the South Africa Act, the office of Prime Minister of South Africa was quickly established as the head of government and, like other government ministers, the Prime Minister was required to be a Member of either House of Parliament. As in other British Dominions, the Governor-General appointed the leader of the largest political party in the lower house of Parliament as Prime Minister. Prime Ministers were also sworn in as Executive Councilors if they were not already members of the Executive Council. \n\nLegislative power was vested in a Parliament consisting of the Monarch, a Senate, and a House of Assembly. For most of the Union's existence, the South Africa Act provided for each Province to have equal representation in the upper house, the Senate, and Senators were chosen by an electoral college made up of the Province's members in the House of Assembly and the members of the provincial legislature. The composition and election of the Senate would later be modified as part of the move towards apartheid and the establishment of the Republic of South Africa. In the lower house of Parliament, the House of Assembly, each Province was represented proportionally according to their respective populations and members were elected from individual districts within a Province. The House of Assembly had more power than the Senate, much like the relationship between the House of Commons and House of Lords. In the case of a disagreement between the Senate and House of Assembly, the Governor-General could convene a joint sitting of the two houses to review the legislation, make amendments, and vote on the bill. Because the House of Assembly was much larger than the Senate, the system was designed to protect the stronger position of the House in any joint sitting. A similar method of resolving disagreements exists in the Australian Parliament and the Indian Parliament, but the Australian Senate and the Rajya Sabha are each half the size of the Australian House of Representatives and the Lok Sabha, respectively, whereas the South African Senate was only one-third the size of the South African House of Assembly. Unlike the Australian model (but like the Indian one), no double dissolution election occurred before a joint sitting, further strengthening the position of the House of Assembly and the Prime Minister over the Senate. \n\nThe Act also established a Supreme Court of South Africa, which served as a unified court system for the Union and consisted of local, provincial, and appellate divisions. The old supreme courts of the provinces became the provincial divisions of the new Supreme Court of South Africa. The appellate division, which was the highest court in the land, was seated at Bloemfontein. There was a further appeal to the Privy Council, particularly in Admiralty cases. The power judicial review of Parliamentary legislation and administrative acts was the same as in the United Kingdom. In addition, the Supreme Court could review Parliamentary amendments of the entrenched clauses of the South Africa Act of 1909.\n\nEach province was governed by an Administrator, appointed by the central government, and had a legislature in the form of a unicameral Provincial Council; four members of the Council joined with the Administrator to form a five-member executive committee that acted as the Province's Cabinet. Unlike Canada and Australia, which became dominions through the federation of British colonies, the South Africa Act created a centralised, unitary state. Each of the four provinces became subordinate entities and had far fewer powers than the Canadian provinces or Australian states. As such, the government of South Africa was quite similar—from a constitutional standpoint—to the government of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Cape Colony had long adhered to a system of non-racial franchise, whereby qualifications for suffrage were applied equally to all males, regardless of race. During the union negotiations, the last Cape Prime Minister, John X. Merriman, and Sir Walter Stanford, representing the Transkei and other African communities, fought unsuccessfully to have this multi-racial franchise system extended to the rest of South Africa. Their attempt failed in the face of opposition from the white governments of the other constituent states, which were determined to entrench white rule.\n\nThe South Africa Act permitted the Cape Province to keep a restricted version of its traditional franchise, whereby qualifications limited the suffrage of all citizens according to education and wealth. This led to the Cape being the only province in South Africa where coloureds (mixed-race people) and Black Africans could vote. The act also permitted the Parliament of South Africa to prescribe all other voting qualifications.\n\nHowever, according to the Act, Parliament was given the power to change the Cape's voting requirements by a two-thirds vote. Over the following years, legislation was passed by Parliament to slowly erode this colour-blind voters roll.\n\nIn 1931, the remaining franchise qualifications, except for the age limit of 21, were removed for white voters, but kept in place for Black and \"Coloured\" voters (including the demand that voters be male). In 1956, the Apartheid government removed all remaining suffrage rights for \"non-whites\" in what became known as the Coloured vote constitutional crisis.\n\nOverall the Act did little to protect black Africans during the time period in which the South Africa Act was the constitution of South Africa, and ultimately enabled the establishing of fifty years of apartheid and racial discrimination.\n\nThe Act established English and Dutch as the official languages of South Africa, with equal status under the law, and required all government documents and Parliamentary proceedings to be published in both languages. In modern times, English remains one of the official languages of the Republic of South Africa. Dutch was extended to include Afrikaans by the Official Languages of the Union Act, 1925, and replaced by Afrikaans in the Constitution of 1961.\n\n"}
{"id": "20948512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20948512", "title": "Spatial reconnaissance", "text": "Spatial reconnaissance\n\nSpatial reconnaissance, or \"space reconnaissance\", is the reconnaissance of any celestial bodies in space by use of spacecraft and satellite photography. NASA personnel utilizes space reconnaissance to scout other planets, military uses space reconnaissance by using spy satellites onto the Earth's surface. Space reconnaissance assets provide access to all parts of the globe and use a variety of sensors to collect information responsive to virtually every intelligence need. They also constitute an integral part of the U.S. military force structure, providing critical information with sufficient accuracy and timeliness to support the maneuver of military forces and the targeting of their weapons.\n\nSpace reconnaissance is also very expensive. Although procured in limited numbers, the large satellite systems developed by the United States and the ground stations needed to operate them require expenditures in the range of several billions of dollars per year. Their substantial cost puts great pressure on the Intelligence Community to search for alternatives, find efficiencies, and continuously scrutinize the intelligence requirements these systems address.\n\n"}
{"id": "10454280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10454280", "title": "Talking CCTV", "text": "Talking CCTV\n\nTalking CCTV is a CCTV surveillance camera that is equipped with a speaker to allow an operator to speak to the people at the CCTV-monitored site.\nIn Wiltshire, UK, 2003, a pilot scheme for what is now known as \"Talking CCTV\" was put into action; allowing operators of CCTV cameras to order offenders to stop what they were doing, ranging from ordering subjects to pick up their rubbish and put it in a bin to ordering groups of vandals to disperse. In 2005 Ray Mallon, the mayor and former senior police officer of Middlesbrough implemented \"Talking CCTV\" in his area.\n\nJohn Reid, Home Secretary, claimed, \"The new funding for Talking CCTV is aimed at the small minority who think it is acceptable to litter our streets, vandalise our communities and damage our properties\", as he gave grants of £500,000 to 21 areas for the implementation of the \"Talking CCTV\" camera; Southwark, Barking and Dagenham, Reading, Thanet, Harlow, Norwich, Ipswich, Plymouth, Gloucester, Derby, Northampton, Mansfield, Nottingham, Coventry, Sandwell, Wirral, Blackpool, Salford, Middlesbrough, South Tyneside and Darlington.\n\nSystems in Middlesbrough, West Bromwich, Redbridge, Manchester and Nottingham were implemented by Complus Teltronic Ltd using switching, telemetry and control room interfacing control systems from Synectic Systems Group Ltd a market leader in public area CCTV control systems.\n\nThe move has already received critics, dubbing the idea \"Big Brother gone mad\"\n\nOther towns have had such cameras installed. In 2007 several of the devices were installed in Bridlington town centre, East Riding of Yorkshire.\n\nThe Simpsons episode \"To Surveil with Love\" was based around the idea of communicative CCTV.\n\n"}
{"id": "4798446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4798446", "title": "The Captain (novel)", "text": "The Captain (novel)\n\nThe Captain is a 1967 novel by Dutch writer Jan de Hartog.\nIt is a sequel of a sort to his 1940 book \"Captain Jan\", though not having the same characters as the earlier book.\n\nThe frame story has Martinus Harinxma, a senior tugboat captain home after a long voyage, catching up on correspondence. He opens a letter from a young man who is the son of a Canadian naval officer killed aboard Harinxma's ship during escort duty during Second World War. In the letter, the son asks the Captain, \"How was my father killed, and what was he really like?\" As he begins to write the boy, Harinxma is forced to remember, and re-live the events surrounding the Canadian officer's time aboard his ship, and his eventual death.\n\nIn 1940 Harinxma, then a young tugboat officer, escapes to Britain. The Kwel company has managed to get away much of its fleet and personnel, one jump ahead of the advancing Germans, and sets up to continue operations from London. Harinxma gets his first command, at an earlier age and under much more difficult conditions than he would otherwise have had. \n\nA central element of the book are the complex relationships between the crew members, in whose depiction de Hartog's personal nautical experience is manifest. Among other things the young and inexperienced captain must face the dilemma of whether to cover up for a severe mishap by the ship's engineer, who is his personal friend, or report him for the sake of the ship's safety and risk his getting fired. \n\nWhile still being merchant seamen not formally inducted into any navy, Harinxma and his fellow Dutch exile sailors are inexorably sucked into the fighting, their ships given (often inadequate) armaments and sent into some of the hottest arenas of the World War II naval war. Again clearly based on De Hartog's own experience, the book vividly conveys the feeling of suspicion and cordial dislike between the exiled Dutch and their British hosts and allies.\n\nThe Dutch sailors feel (and not entirely without reason) that they are being set up as cannon fodder (or rather, U-Boat fodder). Many of Harinxma's fellow Dutch end up on the \"South-Western Approaches\" to the British Isles, acting as \"stretcher-bearers of the sea\" in submarine-infested waters - which turns out to be a task involving an extremely high casualty rate. (That experience had formed the background to a previous (1951) de Hartog novel, published variously under the names \"Stella\" and \"The Key\" and made into a film starring Sophia Loren). \n\nHarinxma himself eventually ends up in an even more horrendous environment: the convoys to Murmansk, carrying the military matériel which the Soviet Union desperately needed to repulse the Nazi invasion of its territory. Wending their long way in frigid Arctic waters, the convoys were for most of their course extremely vulnerable to constant German submarine, warship and aerial attacks emanating from occupied Norway, making them among the war's most dangerous postings. \n\nThe same background, with the combination of extreme belligerent action and inhospitable nature pushing protagonists to the edge of endurance and beyond, was already the scene of \"HMS Ulysses\", the first novel (1946) by Scottish author Alistair MacLean. While the two books have very different writing styles, characterization and undelying philosophy, they do share some plot elements. \n\nHarinxma and his crew go again and again into that hell, with only short rest periods before they have to go there yet again. While under this constant danger, Harinxma gets into a personality conflict with a diminutive and touchy Royal Navy captain hailing from the Isle of Man, who first appears arrogant and ridiculous but ultimately sacrifices himself and goes to the bottom in a touching and heroic - yet believable - way. \n\nIn what would turn out to have a profound influence on his later life, Harinxma works with a sensitive young Canadian liaison officer posted to his ship, who quixotically dies in a futile attempt to shield an injured kitten from an attacking German plane. Later, Harinxma has a brief and guilt-ridden affair with the Canadian's widow. \n\nThings come to a head in a particularly disastrous convoy of which few of the participating ships survive to reach their destination. (Both De Hartog's book and MacLean's seem to be inspired by - though not be following in every detail - the case of the historical ill-fated Convoy PQ-17 of July 1942). \n\nHarinxma loses his ship, and very nearly his life, but purely by chance a depth charge falling from the ship sinks a German U-Boat as well. He pulls from the oily water and into the lifeboat a German boy who was a cook's mate on the submarine and is its only survivor (and who would become a prosperous businessman in post-war Germany and send each year a big box of cakes to his Dutch saviour). \n\nSick and tired of war, Harinxma returns to London and confronts the formidable aging patriarch of the Kwel Company. He declares his firm decision to become a conscientious objector and quit the sea - and gets told \"God has sown you on the bridge of a tugboat, and there you will grow\". \n\nEventually, a deep-seated feeling of loyalty to all the Dutch and British who sailed with him and went to the bottom impels Harinxma to indeed take up again command of a ship - but a completely unarmed one, where he would be exposed to the full risk of German attacks but not be in a position to kill anybody even inadvertently. \n\nThis message reflects the position of de Hartog himself, who became more and more of a pacifist towards the end of the war years and eventually joined the outspokenly pacifist Quakers. What saves the book from becoming an ideological tract is the wry sense of humour evident even in manifestly non-humorous situations, and the first-person narrator's ability to laugh at himself. \n\nHarinxma returned in several later de Hartog books, such as \"The Commodore\" and \"The Centurion\".\n\n"}
{"id": "38755509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38755509", "title": "The Shortest Way with the Dissenters", "text": "The Shortest Way with the Dissenters\n\nThe Shortest-Way with the Dissenters; Or, Proposals for the Establishment of the Church is a pamphlet by Daniel Defoe, first published in 1702. Defoe was prompted to write the pamphlet by the increased hostility towards Dissenters in the wake of the accession of Queen Anne to the throne.\n\nIt is written in the same style as the Tory publications that attacked Dissenters, and was assumed by some people to be a genuine vindication of their view. The pamphlet raised embarrassing questions about the handling of the issue by the Tory ministry, and led to Defoe's arrest for seditious libel. His imprisonment, during which he fell into bankruptcy, was to have a lasting influence on his subsequent writings. In the years after his release, Defoe published several pamphlets that attempted to explain its purpose and his own views.\n\nIn 1702, King William III died, and Queen Anne succeeded to the thrones of England, Scotland and Ireland. She was markedly less tolerant than William of the device known as \"occasional conformity\", whereby Dissenters could qualify as members of the Church of England—and thereby hold public office—by attending a church service once a year. Defoe was supportive of religious freedom, though he was critical of the device and considered it hypocrisy. He had written against it in a pamphlet entitled \"An enquiry into occasional conformity: Shewing that the dissenters are no way concern'd in it\" (1698)\n\nIn the same year, hostility towards Dissenters increased. A Bill against occasional conformity was passed through the House of Commons and debated in the Lords. Figures such as Henry Sacheverell, a High church clergyman, warned against Dissenters assuming positions of political power. His lead was followed by the Tory press, who published a number of sermons and pamphlets making similar arguments. In December, Defoe published his own pamphlet, \"The Shortest Way\", assuming the same stylistic conventions as the Sacheverell and the Tory publications.\n\n\"The Shortest Way with the Dissenters; or, Proposals for the Establishment of the Church\" is a pamphlet consisting of twenty-nine pages. It opens with the fable of the Cock and the Horses. The Cock, lacking any perch in the stable, is forced to rest on the ground and in fear of the Horses moving around and stepping on him, advises: “Pray, Gentlefolks! let us stand still! for fear we should tread upon one another!” The speaker then applies this to the contemporary situation, with the Cock representing the Dissenters.\n\nThe next section accuses the Dissenters of involvement with various notorious and hideous events of the past century, including the English Civil War and Monmouth's Rebellion. The accusations become increasingly sinister, and at points the speaker directly addresses the Dissenters (\"You have butchered one King! deposed another King! and made a Mock King of a third!\"). A brief history is given of how past monarchs—from James I to William III—have treated the Dissenters; in the opinion of the speaker, it is too leniently.\n\nThe major section comprises a series of arguments for why the Dissenters should be treated favourably (\"They are very numerous\", \"That this is a time of war\"). The speaker denounces each in turn and offers several counter-arguments, each gradually escalating in their severity. A vision is given of what will happen to the Church of England if it is not defended against the Dissenters. The pamphlet ends with a rallying call to action against the Dissenters in defence of the church (\"Now let us Crutcifie the Thieves.\")\n\n\"The Shortest Way\" has traditionally been classified as a satire, although this has been disputed by scholars. Miriam Laurenbaum has suggested that it is instead a form of hoax or \"banter\", and that Defoe does not use many of the features necessary for it to be considered a true satire. Paul Alkon describes the critical tradition surrounding the work as \"asking mainly whether it is inadequate irony, deficient satire, or misused impersonation.\" Ashley Marshall suggests that \"\"The Shortest-Way\" is best understood not as insufficiently ironic but as a counterfeit, an intentional fake not meant to be decoded.\"\n\nThe difficulty for Defoe's contemporaries in assessing whether the work was ironic was the proximity of the speaker's voice to that of the High Anglicans whose views are being ridiculed. The pamphlet mixes both real observation and fabrication, and assumes the rhetorical style of his target. Defoe uses and imitates the language and metaphor of fanatical churchman, particularly Sacheverell's sermons; the speaker's comparison of the Dissenters to vipers is one that Sacheverell often made. Although \"The Shortest Way\" does not parody the genre of the Anglican sermon, it does deploy some of the same structures; the initial Aesopic fable of the Cock and the Horses is expanded upon in a way that parallels the use of a biblical quotation to initiate a sermon.\n\nUpon its publication, \"The Shortest Way\" provoked immediate and passionate reactions from both sides of the debate. Some made use of it as a genuine vindication of the anti-Dissenter opinion, although speculation later occurred over whether it was ironic. The pamphlet generated a great deal of publicity over the handling of the issue by the Tory ministry. This resulted in the issuing of a warrant by the High Tory Secretary of State for the Southern Department, the Earl of Nottingham, for the arrest of Defoe on the charge of seditious libel, the order being given to \"… make Strict and diligent Search for Daniel Fooe and him having found you are to apprehend and seize together with his Papers for high Crime and misdemeanours and to bring him before me …\"\n\nDefoe was finally imprisoned on 21 May 1703, after avoiding his summons and evading capture. He was fined, made to stand in the pillory on three occasions and remained in prison till November; in the meantime, his business affairs sank into ruin. The whole affair left a lasting impression on him, which can be felt in his writings. In the years following his arrest and release, Defoe made several attempts to explain \"The Shortest Way\" and his own viewpoint. Amongst the series of explanatory pamphlets doing this are \"An Explanation of a Late Pamphlet, Entituled, The Shortest Way…\" (1703) and \"A Dialogue Between a Dissenter and the Observator\" (1703). The suspected involvement of the Tory Speaker of the House, Robert Harley, in obtaining the release of Defoe is credited as the beginning of their professional relationship, in which Defoe worked as a propagandist for Harley, after he succeeded Nottingham as Secretary of State in 1704.\n\nModern scholarly reception has considered \"The Shortest Way\" in negative terms, as a failed satire, or as using irony so slight as to be undetectable. Such a conclusion cites the contemporary reaction to the work, how it failed to deliver its objectives and also caused its author such problems. If critics have offered praise, it is the extent to which Defoe managed to impersonate the style of his subjects, so as to be indistinguishable from them. \"The Shortest Way\" is frequently contrasted with another work of irony in the eighteenth century, which is considered to have succeeded in its use of the device, Jonathan Swift's \"A Modest Proposal\" (1729).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9653859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9653859", "title": "The Waterwise Project", "text": "The Waterwise Project\n\nThe Waterwise Project is an independent not-for-profit, non-governmental organisation promoting water efficiency and conservation based in London, UK.\n\nThe organisation is focused on decreasing water consumption in the UK by 2010 and on building a robust evidence base for large-scale water efficiency projects. Waterwise is the UK’s water “efficiency champion” – “reaching the parts others cannot reach, and transform[ing] the concept of water resource efficiency into something compelling for consumers and business users.”\n\nWaterwise was established due to concerns of waters shortage and the upward trend in how much water is consumed in the UK. Factors that were taken into account were: current drought situation, geographical and climatological circumstances, consumer tendencies, available resources, and future prospects of supply. The following examples, situations, and comparisons were contemplated:\n\n\nIn 2006, all 26 UK water companies decided to establish an independent organisation which would promote water efficiency. In September 2006, The Waterwise Project was launched to build an evidence base and economic case for water efficiency in the UK. In England, the organisation sits on the Environment Minister’s Water Saving Group, alongside the water industry and regulators.[4] It was established with the stance that the key to water efficiency is reducing waste, not restricting use.\n\nWaterwise has an independent Board, which is drawn from the government, regulators, academia, business, other organisations, and from the water industry. The board meets four times a year and is responsible for overseeing Waterwise’s activities and its strategic direction.\n\nWaterwise's initial remit ran until September 2010. It has been renewed for an additional five years. Its aim is to decrease per capita consumption in the UK, and to build a strong social, political, and economic case for water efficiency.\n\nWaterwise works with all sectors of society to promote water efficiency and the wise use of water. To achieve their aims they work with key partners in water companies, governments (local, regional, and national), regulators, farmers, communities, businesses, civil society organisations, manufacturers, retailers, press and media, and individual consumers.\n\nWaterwise participates in and leads various projects and events in order to complete their objectives:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40284136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40284136", "title": "The only poll that counts...", "text": "The only poll that counts...\n\nThe phrase \"The only poll that counts...\" is used by politicians to dismiss the importance of opinion polls and highlight the importance of polling day. It is particularly used as a response to questions about negative opinion poll results and is generally considered tongue-in-cheek or ironic. It is particularly well known as a feature of Australian politics where its inclusion in party-political briefings and instructions has caused controversy. The generally accepted continuation of the phrase is, \"...is the one on election day\".\n\nIn his book \"Polling and the Public: What Every Citizen Should Know\", Herb Asher provides a general explanation of the context in which the phrase is used. He suggests that the phrase has its origins in attempts by poorly performing politicians to discredit polling as an accurate reflection of their performance. The phrase, he suggests, questions the accuracy of polling by drawing attention to historical, inaccurate polling.\n\nThough popular in Australia, the phrase has also occasionally been used in the United States and the United Kingdom in general the same context, with The Guardian's Jonathan Freedland describing the phrase as an \"oldie but goldie\".\n\nAuthor Helen Geracimos Chapin credits long-term Mayor of Honolulu, Frank Fasi, in particular, with use of the phrase. Both Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter used the phrase with regard to opinion polls - in 1976, Tom Brokaw asked Ford a question in which he suggested the President used the phrase \"often\" and Carter used the phrase in response to a question at a 1980 press conference.\n\nIn 2013, Australian Labor Party MP Joel Fitzgibbon, knowing he would be asked about opinion poll results revealed in the press earlier that morning, provided the following response to journalists' questions:\n\nIn doing so, he exposed the fact that party leaders and advisors had specifically added the phrase to briefing notes for Members of Parliament. The comment came in the midst of an internal campaign (in which Fitzgibbon played a leading role) to highlight the tenuous position of the then-Prime Minister Julia Gillard because of her opinion poll results. Gillard was deposed as Prime Minister later that month.\n"}
{"id": "38171120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38171120", "title": "Thorium Energy Alliance", "text": "Thorium Energy Alliance\n\nThorium Energy Alliance (TEA) is a non-governmental, non-profit 501(c)3, educational organization based in the United States, which seeks to promote energy security of the world through the use of thorium as a fuel source. The potential for the use of thorium was studied extensively during the 1950s and 60s, and now worldwide interest is being revived due to limitations and issues concerning safety, economics, use and issues in the availability of other energy sources. TEA advocates thorium based nuclear power in existing reactors and primarily in next generation reactors. TEA promotes many initiatives to educate scientists, engineers, government officials, policymakers and the general public.\n\nTEA promotes the use of thorium using a different rationale. Increasing world population, depleting resources and global warming have put severe constraints on the choices of power generation available today. Traditional fossil fuel based energy generation faces two-fold challenges in terms of depleting resources and need to keep greenhouse gas emissions in control. While interim measures like natural gas and unconventional oil are proposed, these still have a carbon footprint and are not universally available. Hydropower use has reached a natural limit in many parts of the world, and the existing capacity is under stress due to climate change. Renewable energy is seen as an important component of future energy generation, but being essentially intermittent, can not be effectively managed by the current power distribution technologies. Hence, nuclear energy is seen as an important option for power generation in many countries.\n\nPresent generation nuclear reactors are all uranium based, fueled with either freshly mined uranium or recycled plutonium and uranium as the fissile material. There are concerns about a continued supply of uranium, due to resource depletion, as well as various obstacles to mining uranium deposits. Moreover, the currently widely deployed nuclear reactors harness less than 3% of the energy content of uranium fuel. This technology, in turn, leaves large quantities of radioactive wastes to be disposed of safely. The issue of disposal of these wastes has not been addressed convincingly anywhere in the world. Moreover, a vast majority of the present generation reactors are based on the original design of reactors meant to power submarines, and whose safety is ensured by several active features and standard operating practices. Under various circumstances, these features and procedures were seen to fail, bringing about catastrophic consequences. Highly enriched uranium and separated plutonium are also the feedstock for nuclear weapons.\n\nThorium has been proposed as a clean, safe, proliferation resistant and sustainable source of energy which additionally is free from most of the issues associated with uranium. The average crustal abundance of thorium is four times more than that of uranium. Thorium is invariably associated with rare-earth elements or rare metals like niobium, tantalum and zirconium. Hence, it can be recovered as a by-product of other mining activities. Already, large quantities of thorium recovered from rare-earth element operations have been stockpiled in many countries. Thorium is fertile material, and essentially all thorium can be used in a nuclear reactor. Thorium is not fissile in itself, absorbs a neutron to transmute into uranium-233, which can fission to produce energy. Therefore, a thorium based fuel cycle produces very little, easily manageable waste compared to uranium. Thorium based fuel cycle options can be used to 'burn' all the presently accumulated nuclear waste. Various thorium based reactor designs are inherently more safe than uranium based reactors.\nHowever nuclear proliferation using thorium has proven to be extremely difficult and non-practical, although proof-of-concepts of the contrary also have been proposed.\n\nDespite all the favorable factors, and utilization in commercial reactors in the past, interest in thorium diminished in the late 1980s due to various reasons. Critics of thorium claim that the advantages are overstated and it is unlikely to be a useful source of energy. Experts point the adverse economics and the availability of plentiful sources of energy that will deter full commercialization of thorium based energy. These and other issues regarding the use of thorium have been debated.\n\nOne of the stated objectives of TEA is the vigorous advocacy for use of thorium as a nuclear fuel. TEA through its activities reaches out to scientists, engineers, government official, policymakers, and lawmakers to sensitize about the advantages of using thorium as a fuel. TEA has conducted a number of publicity campaigns and social media based outreach activities. TEA has emphasized the research and development done in the USA during the 1950s to 1970s period on thorium based reactor designs and fuel cycle options. Of particular interest was the Molten-Salt Reactor Experiment (MSRE) carried out at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, the United States during 1964-1969.\n\nTEA argues the importance of enabling thorium energy, especially in liquid fluoride thorium reactor (LFTR pronounced lifter), in public hearings, such as the Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future. TEA promotes the establishment of a working thorium powered reactor. TEA is particularly interested in restarting the homogeneous fuels research program and the commercialization of molten salt reactor and the supply chain infrastructure to support it.\n\nAnother aim of TEA is supporting the reemergence of a Western Rare Earths Infrastructure by bringing together rare-earth producers leading to the establishment of a consortium for refining rare earths and sequestering thorium for future use. TEA supports changes in existing thorium regulation in the USA to promote safe production and stockpiling of thorium as a by-product of associated mineral industries activity.\n\nTEA proposes to leverage education and training activities by:\n\nTEA plans to engage politicians through round-table discussions and provide them with expert opinion, white papers, executive summaries and talking points to demonstrate thorium technology.\n\nThere is a major initiative to engage the public through regular and social media channels. TEA facilitates experts to appear on radio and television and participate in group discussions and provide interviews. In this direction TEA generates a large quantity of its own media including, webcasts, podcasts, videos, pamphlets, books and articles.TEA sponsors advertising campaigns in print, television and targeted mail.\n\nIn the future, TEA plans to track the milestones in the creation of a thorium economy. One of the proposed methods will be to create a thorium and related technology stock portfolio and a Thorium ETF, which will allow the public to track and participate in the growing value of the thorium economy.\n\nTEA organizes regular annual conferences since 2009, where scientific sessions and cross-cutting energy and fuel management discussions bring together a cross-section of interested domain experts. The inaugural conference in 2009 took place in Washington D.C., followed by California (2010), Washington D.C. (2011), and Chicago (2012). The 2013 annual conference was held in Chicago, May 30–31. The most recent conference was held in Palo Alto, CA, June 3–4, 2015.\n\nThe 2017 annual conference will be held in St. Louis, 21–22 August.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35435751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35435751", "title": "Timeline of the Gwangmu Reform", "text": "Timeline of the Gwangmu Reform\n\nThe following is a timeline of the Gwangmu Reform, which was a reforms for modernize Korea from the late 19th century to the early 20th century. Although many people have the notion that this period was marked with the fight for power between Heungseon Daewongun (흥선대원군, 興宣大院君 - King Gojong's father) and Queen Min (King Gojong's wife), it was rather the era of great changes relevant to modernisation after the harsh oppressive years during the \"Regency\" of King Gojong's father. This reform also was one of the most successful for modernising in a short period of time during Korean history. Although the reform was mostly centred on the time period after the proclamation of the Korean Empire, it includes a number of other previous events that are closely related to the reform.\n\nPhase one of the Gwangmu Reform began with the first Korean delegation to America, and opening up for modernisation. Because of recurring Chinese interventions led by Li Hongzhang (이홍장,李鴻章), there was relatively less development of Chosun compared to Phase Three. The main innovator in this phase is Queen Min.\n\n\n\n\nThis phase does not show much development within the Korean Peninsula. It is a brief period of intense power struggle between Japan and Russia, competing to expand their influence in the peninsula.\n\n\n\nPhase two of the Gwangmu Reform began with the proclamation of the Korean Empire on 4 October 1897. Efforts for modernisation were spurred with the coronation of Gojong as Emperor but were restrained by Japan after the Russo-Japanese War in 1905. The main innovator in this phase is Emperor Gojong.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis was the darkest period of the Gwangmu Reform, ending with the annexation of Korea by Japan on the 29th of August, 1910.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1185048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1185048", "title": "Tripwire", "text": "Tripwire\n\nA tripwire is a passive triggering mechanism. Typically, a wire or cord is attached to some device for detecting or reacting to physical movement.\n\nSuch tripwires may be attached to one or more mines — especially fragmentation or bouncing mines — in order to increase the area where triggering may occur.. Trip wires are frequently used in boobytraps -- where either a tug on the wire, or the release of tension on it, will trigger the explosives.\n\nSoldiers sometimes detect the presence of tripwires by spraying the area with Silly String. It will settle to the ground in areas where there are no wires. Where wires are present, the \"strings\" will rest on the taut wires without triggering the explosive, due to its light weight. It was used by U.S. troops in Iraq for this purpose.\n\nAnother detection method is the use of green line lasers to illuminate and thus expose trip and command wires. The bright laser beam reflects off of the tripwire and can be seen by the user.\n"}
{"id": "5304762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5304762", "title": "Vohra Report", "text": "Vohra Report\n\nThe Vohra (Committee) Report was submitted by the former Indian Union Home Secretary, N.N. Vohra, in October 1993. It studied the problem of the criminalisation of politics and of the nexus among criminals, politicians and bureaucrats in India.\n\nThe report contained several observations made by official agencies on the criminal network which was virtually running a parallel government. It also discussed criminal gangs who enjoyed the patronage of politicians, of all parties, and the protection of government functionaries. It revealed that political leaders had become the leaders of gangs. They were connected to the military. Over the years criminals had been elected to local bodies, State Assemblies and Parliament. The unpublished annexures to the Vohra Report were believed to contain highly explosive material.\n\nIn 1997, the Supreme Court recommended the appointment of a high level committee to ensure in-depth investigation into the findings of the N N Vohra Committee and to secure prosecution of those involved.\n\n\"In the first meeting of the Committee (held on l5th July ‘93), I had explained to the Members that Government had established the Committee after seeing the reports of our Intelligence and Investigation agencies on the activities/linkages of the Dawood Ibrahim gang, consequent to the bomb blasts in Bombay in March 1993.\" (2.1, cf. 1993 Bombay bombings, Dawood Ibrahim)\n\n\"In the bigger cities, the main source of income relates to real estate - forcibly occupying lands/buildings, procuring such properties at cheap rates by forcing out the existing occupants/tenants etc. Over time, the money power thus acquired is used for building up contacts with bureaucrats and politicians and expansion of activities with impunity. The money power is used to develop a network of muscle-power which is also used by the politicians during elections.\" (3.2)\n\n\"The nexus between the criminal gangs, police, bureaucracy and politicians has come out clearly in various parts of the country. The existing criminal justice system, which was essentially designed to deal with the individual offences/crimes, is unable to deal with the activities of the Mafia; the provisions of law in regard economic offences are weak (...)\" (3.3)\n\n\"Director CBI has observed that there are many such cases, as that of [mafia boss Iqbal] MIRCHI where the initial failure has led to the emergence of Mafia giants who have become too big to be tackled.\" (3.4)\n\n\"Like the Director CBI, the DIB has also stated that there has been a rapid spread and growth of criminal gangs, armed senas, drug Mafias, smuggling gangs, drug peddlers and economic lobbies in the country which have, over the years, developed an extensive network of contacts with the bureaucrats/Government functionaries at the local levels, politicians, media persons and strategically located individuals in the non-State sector. Some of these Syndicates also have international linkages, including the foreign intelligence agencies.\" (6.2)\n\n“The various crime Syndicates /Mafia organisations have developed significant muscle and money power and established linkages with governmental functionaries, political leaders and others to be able to operate with impunity” (10.1.ii)\n\n“the various agencies presently in the field take care to essentially focus on their respective charter of duties, dealing with the infringement of laws relating to their organisations and consciously putting aside any information on linkages which they may come across” (11.1)\n\n“In the background of the discussions so far, there does not appear to be need for any further debate on the vital importance of setting up a nodal point to which all existing intelligence and Enforcement agencies (irrespective of the Department under which they are located ) shall promptly pass on any information which they may come across, which relates to the activities of crime Syndicates” (13.1)\n\n\nVohra (Committee) Report\n"}
