{"id": "2666422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2666422", "title": "Abd-ru-shin", "text": "Abd-ru-shin\n\nOskar Ernst Bernhardt, also known as Abd-ru-shin or Abdruschin (18 April 1875, Bischofswerda, Kingdom of Saxony, German Empire – 6 December 1941, Kipsdorf, Ore Mountains, Germany), is best known as the author of the \"\".\nAfter a brief commercial training Oskar Ernst Bernhardt began his literary activity while still a young man. This often led him to foreign countries. In 1915 he was interned in England. Released in 1919, he first went to Dresden, later to Bavaria and in 1923 began to write the first lectures of the Grail Message.\n\nIn 1928 he settled in Vomperberg, Tyrol. There he wrote \"In the Light of Truth: The Grail Message\". He was labeled a \"dangerous\" element by the Nazi authorities and exiled from Austria in 1938.\n\nHe claimed to be the Messiah. By his own admission, he was described in leading newspapers as the Messiah of the Tyrol and the Prophet of Vomperberg.\n\nThe Grail Movement maintains discretion in respect to his role as Messiah/Son of Man.\n\nBernhardt was born in Bischofswerda, Germany, trained in business, and successfully established himself in Dresden. He traveled and wrote travel books, stories, and plays. He resided in New York and London. He was in London when World War I broke out and in 1914 he was interned on the Isle of Man.\n\nThis seclusion gave him time to reflect, question, and deepen his understanding. He was released in the Spring of 1919 and returned to Germany. He began to write \"In the Light of Truth: The Grail Message\" in 1923 and completed it in 1931 under the pen name Abd-ru-shin.\n\nIn 1928 he settled in Austria, Tyrol on a mountain plateau called Vomperberg. Here he continued writing \"The Grail Message\". The Nazis came to power in 1938, ending his work there. He was arrested and exiled to Kipsdorf in the Erzgebirge. He was forbidden any further writing. He died while in Gestapo custody.\n\nAfter the war, his family returned to Vomperberg and carried on his work. Other writings by Abd-ru-shin published by Grail Foundation Press include \"The Ten Commandments of God and The Lord's Prayer\", \"Questions and Answers\", and \"Prayers\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4695306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4695306", "title": "Affusion", "text": "Affusion\n\nAffusion (la. \"affusio\") is a method of baptism where water is poured on the head of the person being baptized. The word \"affusion\" comes from the Latin \"affusio\", meaning \"to pour on\". Affusion is one of four methods of baptism used by Christians, which also include total submersion baptism, partial immersion baptism, and aspersion or sprinkling.\n\nChristian denominations which baptize by affusion do not deny the legitimacy of baptizing by submersion or immersion; rather, they consider that affusion is a sufficient, if not necessarily preferable, method of baptism. Affusion and aspersion tend to be practiced by Christian denominations that also practice infant baptism. This may be due to the practical difficulties of totally immersing an infant underwater. However, Eastern Orthodox and some Roman Catholics practice infant immersion. Amish, Old Order Mennonites, and Conservative Mennonites still practice baptism by pouring.\n\nAffusion became the standard practice in the western church around the 10th century, but was in use much earlier. The earliest explicit reference to baptism by affusion occurs in the Didache (c. AD 100), the seventh chapter of which gives instructions on how to baptize, which include affusion:\n\n…But if you have no living water, baptize into other water; and if you cannot do so in cold water, do so in warm. But if you have neither, pour out water three times upon the head into the name of Father and Son and Holy Spirit. (Emphasis added) \n\nThis text implies that early Christians saw affusion as a viable alternative to immersion when no living water (i.e. running water like a river or spring) or cold water is available.\n\nActs of various martyrs show that many were baptized in prison, while awaiting martyrdom; immersion would have been impossible. The most common use, however, was for ill or dying people who could not rise from their beds. It was consequently known as \"baptism of the sick\". Receiving this baptism was regarded as a bar to Holy Orders, but this sprang from the person's having put off baptism until the last moment—a practice that in the fourth century became common, with people enrolling as catechumens but not being baptized for years or decades. While the practice was decried at the time, the intent of the criticism was not to encourage baptism by immersion, but to refrain from delaying baptism.\n\nIn the New Testament book of Acts, the baptism of the Holy Spirit is sometimes described, as a “pouring out” of the Holy Spirit (Acts 2:17,18,33; Acts 10:45). Luke, the author of Acts, uses the word \"baptism\" to describe a \"pouring,\" which seems to indicate that the word \"baptism\" can refer to pouring and not just dipping or immersing. It may also indicate that Luke’s concept of baptism includes, or allows for, baptism by pouring. For instance, on Pentecost, the disciples were baptized with the Holy Spirit by having the Spirit “poured out” on them from heaven not by being dipped in the Holy Spirit until they were completely immersed.\n\nSubmersionists say that passages like these do not directly speak to the issue of water baptism because they are, strictly speaking, about baptism with the Holy Spirit. Affusionists think they indirectly apply to water baptism, though, by telling us something about the general \"concept\" of baptism, regardless of whether the medium of baptism is water or Spirit.\n\nAffusionists see more evidence that Luke’s concept of baptism includes pouring by noting an additional possible connection between water baptism and Holy Spirit baptism. In Acts 10, Peter is “astonished that the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out even on the Gentiles” (Acts 10:45). Peter responds by saying, “Can anyone keep these people from being baptized with water? They have received the Holy Spirit just as we have\" (Acts 10:47).\n\nAffusionists read Peter to be saying \"by having the Spirit poured out on them, these people already have been baptized with the Spirit, so why not actually baptize them with water.\" They understand Peter’s words to imply that water baptism is a symbolic picture of the Holy Spirit baptism. If this is right, affusionists contend, then water baptism should be, or, at least, can be, by pouring, because the baptism with the Holy Spirit of which it is a picture occurs by pouring.\n\nAlso noteworthy to affusionists is that, in Luke 11:38, the word \"ἐβαπτίσθη\" [\"ebaptisthē\"] is used in the Greek and \"baptizatus\" is used in the Latin. Both words are used, in other passages, to mean baptism. But in that verse of Luke, the \"washing\" referred to is partial, like affusion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6051292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6051292", "title": "Anathapindika", "text": "Anathapindika\n\nAnathapindika (; ) was a wealthy merchant and banker, believed to have been the wealthiest merchant in Savatthi in the time of Gautama Buddha. Born Sudatta, he received the nickname \"Anathapindika\", literally \"one who gives alms to the poor\", due to his reputation of loving to give to those in need. Anathapindika was the chief male lay disciple and the greatest patron of Gautama Buddha along with his female counterpart Visakha. Anathapindika is known as the male lay disciple of the Buddha who was foremost in generosity. Anathapindika is frequently referred to as Anathapindika-\"setthi\" (\"setthi\" meaning \"wealthy person\" or \"millionaire\"), and is sometimes referred to as Mahā Anāthapindika to distinguish him from Cūla Anāthapindika, another disciple of the Buddha.\n\nIn Buddhist belief, when a fully enlightened Buddha arrives in the world, he always has a set of chief disciples that fulfill different roles. On top of the pair of chief Arahant disciples such as Gautama Buddha's chief male disciples Sariputta and Moggallana, and his chief female disciples Khema and Uppalavanna, all Buddhas have a set of chief lay disciples as well. Gautama Buddha's chief male lay disciple and patron was Anathapindika, with his chief female lay disciple and patron being Visakha.\n\nAccording to the Pali Canon, in the time of Padumattara Buddha, a householder was inspired when Padumattara Buddha spoke of his own chief lay disciple and patron. The householder then resolved in that lifetime to become the chief lay disciple of a future Buddha himself, and did several good deeds in hopes of becoming one. His wish was fulfilled in this lifetime when he was reborn as Anathapindika and became the chief male lay disciple of Gautama Buddha.\n\nAnathapindika was born with the given name Sudatta, and was the son of a wealthy merchant named Sumana. When Sudatta grew up, he married a woman named Puññalakkhanā, the sister of a wealthy merchant in Rājagaha. Sudatta was known for his generosity even before his conversion to Buddhism, and was known to the public by the nickname \"Anathapindika\", or \"one who gives alms to the poor\", due to his love for giving. Anathapindika had one son, Kāla, and three daughters, Mahā-Subhaddā, Cūla-Subhaddā and Sumanā. His daughter-in-law was Sujātā, the youngest sister of his female counterpart, Visakha.\n\nThe Pali Canon describes Anathapindika's first encounter with the Buddha as being in Rājagaha. While on business, Anathapindika went to visit his brother-in-law, who was already a follower of the Buddha. When he arrived at this brother-in-law's house, he noticed that the household was preparing for an elaborate feast, and mistook it as preparation for a wedding or a visit from the king. When Anathapindika asked about the preparations, his brother-in-law explained that they were preparing for a visit from the Buddha (the Enlightened One) and his monks. Upon hearing this, Anathapindika became overjoyed, exclaiming \"You mean that a fully enlightened being had arisen in the world?\", and immediately resolved to go meet him.\n\nThe following day Anathapindika arose early to meet the Buddha, but realized it was still dark. He still continued however, after a friendly yakka whispered in his ear and urged him to continue. Anathapindika eventually reached a figure which called him \"Sudatta\" and asked him to come forward. Surprised to hear his birth name, which was not known to the public, he concluded it could only be the Buddha, and went forward. The Buddha then had a discussion with him and expounded the Four Noble Truths, afterwards Anathapindika achieved the state of Sotapanna, a stage of enlightenment.\nFollowing Anathapindika's first encounter with the Buddha, he requested to offer him a meal, which the Buddha accepted, and then asked to build a temple for him and his monks in his hometown of Savatthi, to which the Buddha agreed.\n\nShortly after, Anathapindika went back to Savatthi to search for a place to build the monastery. Looking for a place that was both accessible to followers and peacefully secluded, he came across a park belonging to Prince Jeta, the son of King Pasenadi of Kosala. Anathapindika offered to buy the park from the prince but the prince refused, after Anathapindika persisted, the prince joking said he will sell him the park if he covers it with gold coins, to which Anathapindika agreed.\n\nAnathapindika later came back with wagons full of gold pieces to cover the park with. When Prince Jeta stated he was merely joking, Anathapindika and the prince went to arbitrators who concluded that Prince Jeta had to sell the park at the agreed price. After seeing Anathapindika's resolve, Prince Jeta offered to build a wall and gate for the monastery. Afterwards, Anathapindika spent several million more gold pieces building the temple and its furnishings, in what would come to be known as the Jetavana Monastery, also often referred to in Buddhist scriptures as \"Anathapindika's Monastery\".\n\nThe Buddha designated Anathapindika as his chief lay disciple, along with Visakha. He is considered to be the male Buddhist lay disciple who was foremost in both generosity and character. Throughout his life, Anathapindika received hundreds of monks at his house for alms daily and regularly sent food, medicine and supplies to the monastery. The temple was also regularly maintained by Anathapindika's servants.\n\nWhenever the Buddha was in Savatthi, Anathapindika would visit him twice a day. After first meeting the Buddha, Anathapindika committed to following the teachings and strictly observing the five precepts, as well as encouraged his family, friends, employees, and everybody around him to do the same. Anathapindika was also well versed in the Dhamma, and an excellent debater. Buddhist scriptures describe a time when he visited a temple of another religious tradition and a debate ensues, with Anathapindika skillfully defeating the followers of the other religious tradition.\n\nAnathapindika and Visakha were not only the greatest donors to Gautama Buddha but also his primary aides when dealing with the general public. The Buddha frequently turned to one of the two chief lay disciples whenever there needed to be something arranged with the lay community.\n\nEven the wealthy Anathapindika's wealth was not limitless. At one time, the wealthy banker lost a significant amount of his fortune in a flash flood, which washed away large amounts of his gold, and was reduced to poverty due to his love of giving as well as due to lending out large amounts to his friends. Despite this, Anathapindika continued his patronage and support of Buddhism, although more modestly. It is said he later returned to his wealthy status, however, due to the help of a redemptive \"deva\", or spirit.\n\nBased on accounts from the Buddhist scriptures, there was a \"deva\" living in Anathapindika's house at the time. According to the laws of his realm, the \"deva\" had to leave his abode whenever the Buddha or a monk was in the house, as a form of respect. Annoyed by this, the \"deva\" appeared before Anathapindika and suggested he preserve his treasure and stop his patronage of Buddhism since he was no longer wealthy. Appalled by this suggestion, Anathapindika explained that the only treasures he knew of were the Three Jewels; the Buddha, the Dhamma, and the Sangha, and that he would continue to support Buddhism so long as he had something to give. Anathapindika then ordered the \"deva\" to leave his house, stating that enemies of the Buddha were not welcome, forcing the \"deva\" to find a new place to live. The homeless \"deva\" went to several authorities, eventually reaching Sakka, the king of the \"devas\" in Trāyastriṃśa, who suggested he must atone by retrieving Anathapindika's lost gold, convincing his debtors to repay their debts, and by giving Anathapindika a buried treasure, which had no owner. This resulted in Anathapindika returning to wealth, even richer than he was before.\n\nThe extent of Anathapindika's generosity was not limited just to material gifts. One famous story described in the Buddhist scriptures is the story of Kalakanni. Kalakanni (whose name means \"unlucky bird\") was a childhood friend of Anathapindika who was impoverished. When Kalakanni asked Anathapindika for aid, the \"setthi\" offered him a job at his house. This decision was met with backlash from Anathapindika's household, due to Kalakanni's low status and the superstition at the time of Kalakanni's name being a bad omen. Anathapindika ignored this superstition and his status however, and granted his friend a job. This eventually worked in the favor of the household however, when a group of thieves attempted to rob Anathapindika while he was away on a business trip. When the vigilant Kalakanni noticed the thieves, he started making loud noises, convincing the thieves that the household was full and causing them to leave.\n\nWhen Anathapindika grew ill later in life he was visited by Sariputta and Ananda, two of the Buddha's principle disciples. Sariputta delivered a sermon, recommending Anathapindika focus on freeing his mind from clinging and to reflect on the impermanence of existence. The \"setthi\" later proclaimed this sermon to have been the most profound sermon he has ever heard, which Sariputta explained was because this teaching was not normally given to laypeople. Shortly after Sariputta and Ananda left, Anathapindika died. According to the Buddhist scriptures, Anathapindika was reborn as a \"deva\" in Tusita heaven after his death, where he would live as long as his female counterpart Visakha, and the king of Tavatimsa heaven, Sakka.\n\nAnathapindika is considered to be one of the most exemplary adherents of the Buddhist virtue of generosity. Not only did he regularly provide alms and necessities to the monks at Jetavana, he hosted hundreds of monks at his residence for meals daily. Referring to Anathapindika, the Buddha stated that for one who was dedicated to perfecting the virtue of generosity, nothing in the world is capable of stopping him from giving. Anathapindika's love of giving, combined with some misfortune, at one point reduced the \"setthi\" to poverty. But even in times of hardship, Anathapindika was described as continuing his patronage of Buddhism, although with much more modest gifts. His wealth was eventually restored to him however, due to the power of the merit of his generosity.\n\nAnathapindika's patronage had a significant impact on Buddhism. Anathapindika's hometown of Savatthi was considered to be the center of Buddhism at the time, being the location of a significant number of the Buddha's sermons. On top of that, the Buddha spent more rainy seasons at Jetavana monastery than at any other temple during his lifetime. After the building of Migāramātupāsāda monastery in Savatthi by Visakha, the Buddha would alternate between Anathapindika's monastery and Visakha's monastery whenever he was staying in Savatthi. Anathapindika's generosity even inspired King Pasenadi, another follower of the Buddha, to himself start generous patronage of Buddhism.\n\nBuddhist scholars George D. Bond and Ananda W.P Guruge, point to the story of Anathapindika as evidence that the Buddhist path for lay people and the rewards of generosity in Buddhism are not distinct from the path to Nirvana that is the focus of Buddhist monastics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54420923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54420923", "title": "Arsinoe (Greek myth)", "text": "Arsinoe (Greek myth)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Arsinoe sometimes spelled Arsinoë, (Ancient Greek: Ἀρσινόη derived from \"arsis\" \"to rise, to lift\" and \"nous\" \"mind, intellect\" ), was the name of the following individuals.\n"}
{"id": "1746771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1746771", "title": "Azali", "text": "Azali\n\nAn Azali () or Azali Bábí is a follower of the monotheistic religion of Subh-i-Azal and the Báb. Early followers of the Báb were known as Bábís; however, in the 1860s a split occurred after which the vast majority of Bábís followed Mirza Husayn `Ali, known as Bahá'u'lláh, and became known as Bahá'ís, while the minority who followed Subh-i-Azal came to be called Azalis.\n\nCurrent estimates are that there are no more than a few thousand.\n\nAzalis do not accept any who advanced claims to be the Báb's promised one (\"Him whom God shall make manifest\"). The most bitterly contested claim is that of Bahá'u'lláh in 1863. Azalis rejected the divine claims of Bahá'u'lláh, arguing that the world must first accept the laws of the Báb before \"He Whom God Shall Make Manifest\" can appear.\n\nWith respect to the direction that Azali Bábism took immediately after the split, MacEoin notes:\n\nAfter the split with the Bahá'ís, some Azalis were very active in secular reform movements and the Iranian Constitutional Revolution (1905–1907), including Shaykh Ahmad Ruhi Kermani and Mirza Abd-al-Hosayn Kermani. However, the community was still suppressed as a heresy and the accusation of being an Azali was often enough for most to believe it to be true. Coupled with the Azali practice of \"taqiyya\" (dissimulation) determining whether or not a particular figure in Persian politics was an Azali is difficult.\n\nTaqiya (\"dissimulation\") was practiced by some Bábís. It was justified by some as a response to the often violent oppression the community faced. However, prominent Bábí leaders never encouraged individuals to practice it; and some who had practiced \"taqiyya\" later abandoned it, declared themselves openly, and were put to death.\n\nAmong Azalis, however, the practice became ingrained and widespread. One historian has noted:\n\nThere was some dispute on the question over who was Subh-i-Azal's appointed successor. MacEoin states that Subh-i-Azal appointed Yahya Dawlatábádí as his successor in turn after the death of his (Yahya's) father, Mirza Hadi Dawlatábádí. However, this was disputed by Subh-i-Azal's grandson, Jalal Azal , indicating that this question was not entirely resolved.\nMacEoin notes that, in any event, neither he (Yahya Dawlatábádí) nor anyone else arose to organize the affairs of the community, or produce significant writing to develop the religion. He goes on to say (writing in 1999):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34465121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34465121", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Peru", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Peru\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Peru begins with references to Peru in Bahá'í literature as early as 1916, with the first Bahá'ís visiting as early as 1919. A functioning community wasn't founded in Peru until the 1930s with the beginning of the arrival of coordinated pioneers from the United States which progressed into finding national Peruvian converts and achieved an independent national community in 1961. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 41,900 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916–1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The sixth of the tablets was the first to mention Latin American regions and was written on 8 April 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 – after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. `Abdu'l-Bahá's sixth tablet was translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrabon 4 April 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on 12 December 1919.\n\n\"His Holiness Christ says: Travel ye to the East and to the West of the world and summon the people to the Kingdom of God. Hence the mercy of God must encompass all humanity. Therefore do ye not think it permissible to leave that region deprived of the breezes of the Morn of Guidance. Consequently, strive as far as ye are able to send to those parts fluent speakers, who are detached from aught else save God, attracted with the fragrances of God, and sanctified and purified from all desires and temptations. ...Guatemala, Honduras, Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama and the seventh country Belize...The teachers going to those parts must also be familiar with the Spanish language. Attach great importance to the indigenous population of America...Likewise the islands of ... Cuba, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, ... Bahama Islands, even the small Watling Island...Haiti and Santo Domingo...the islands of Bermuda... the republics of the continent of South America — Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Brazil, the Guianas, Bolivia, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Venezuela; also the islands to the north, east and west of South America, such as Falkland Islands, the Galapagòs, Juan Fernandez, Tobago and Trinidad...\"\n\nThe first actions on the part of Bahá'í community towards Latin America were that of a few individuals who made trips to Mexico and South America near or before this unavailing in 1919. Foremost was Martha Root. Root's travels included Peru which was reported in October 1920 in an edition of the \"Star of the West\", including making contact with several people through a Dr. Vargas.\n\nAmong the earliest Bahá'ís known in Peru were Louis Mathew (1935) and Isabel Stebbins Dodge (1935–38).Shoghi Effendi, who was named `Abdu'l-Bahá's successor, wrote a cable on 1 May 1936 to the Bahá'í Annual Convention of the United States and Canada, and asked for the systematic implementation of `Abdu'l-Bahá's vision to begin. In his cable he wrote:\n\n\"Appeal to assembled delegates ponder historic appeal voiced by 'Abdu'l-Bahá in \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". Urge earnest deliberation with incoming National Assembly to insure its complete fulfillment. First century of Bahá'í Era drawing to a close. Humanity entering outer fringes most perilous stage its existence. Opportunities of present hour unimaginably precious. Would to God every State within American Republic and every Republic in American continent might ere termination of this glorious century embrace the light of the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh and establish structural basis of His World Order.\"\nFollowing the 1 May cable, another cable from Shoghi Effendi came on 19 May calling for permanent pioneers to be established in all the countries of Latin America. The Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada appointed the Inter-America Committee to take charge of the preparations. During the 1937 Bahá'í North American Convention, Shoghi Effendi cabled advising the convention to prolong their deliberations to permit the delegates and the National Assembly to consult on a plan that would enable Bahá'ís to go to Latin America as well as to include the completion of the outer structure of the Bahá'í House of Worship in Wilmette, Illinois. Following this call Stuart and Nellie S. French (1936) went through Peru. In 1937 the \"First Seven Year Plan\" (1937–44), which was an international plan designed by Shoghi Effendi, gave the American Bahá'ís the goal of establishing the Bahá'í Faith in every country in Latin America. With the spread of American Bahá'ís in Latin American, Bahá'í communities and Local Spiritual Assemblies began to form in 1938 across Latin America. Isabel Stebbins Dodge was joined by her mother, Mrs. Joel Stebbins, the summer of 1937.\n\nThe first pioneer under the next plan was Eve Nicklin, called the \"Spiritual Mother of Peru\" who arrived in Peru in 1941. In 1942–3 she was able to coordinate a number of talks by traveling Bahá'í Philip Sprague amounting to several hundred people.\n\nIn 1943 during the annual Bahá'í convention of the United States, Shoghi Effendi announced a Northern- and Southern-international convention which would include representatives from each state and province from the United States and Canada and each republic of Latin America. During this convention, Isabel Tirada de Barrada and Raymond Betts were the Peruvian delegates.\n\nThe first South American Bahá'í Congress was held in Buenos Aires, Argentina, November 1946. In 1947 the Bahá'í international teaching committee for South America (CEPSA) was appointed and the first members were all from Chile. Retrospectively a stated goal of the committee was to facilitate a shift in the balance of roles from North American guidance and Latin cooperation to Latin guidance and North American cooperation. The process was well underway by 1950 and was to be enforced about 1953.\n\nThe second South American Bahá'í Congress was celebrated in Santiago, Chile, in January 1948 and was organized and executed by CEPSA. The Peruvian official delegate was Mercedes Sanchez. In 1950, the Bahá'í Faith achieved legal recognition in Chile with the formation of an international Regional Spiritual Assembly for South America whose first members were Edmund Miessler of Brazil, Margot Worley of Brazil, Eve Nicklin of Peru, Gayle Woolson of Colombia, Esteban Canales of Paraguay, Mercedes Sanchez of Peru, Dr. Alexander Reid of Chile, Rangvald Taetz of Uruguay, and Manuel Vera of Peru.\n\nIn 1957 this Assembly was split into two – basically northern/eastern South America with the Republics of Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela, in Lima, Peru and one of the western/southern South America with the Republics of Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay, and Bolivia in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Horace Holley represented the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States at conventions held in Panama and Lima, Peru when Latin American national Baha'i assemblies were elected.\n\nIn 1961, \"La Asamblea Espiritual Nacional de los Bahais del Peru\" was elected.\n\nBy 1963 there were 19 delegates for the convention to elect the National Spiritual Assembly of Peru. For the election of the Universal House of Justice the international head of the religion since its election in 1963, the delegates for the voting were the members of the National Spiritual Assemblies of the world. The Peruvian members of the national assembly were recorded for this first election: Guillermo Aguilar, Fidel Flores, Cesar Loayza, Lester W. Long, Demetrio Molero, Mrs. Jesus Rivera, Josefina Rosas, Mercedes Sanchez, and Dr. Enrique Sanchez. At the same time members of the religion were known to exist among the indigenous near Arequipa, and the Quechua people. Local assemblies were formed in Arequipa, Cajamarca, Callao, Chiclayo, Huancayo, Lima, and two other villages. Groups of Baha'is were in Cuzco, Punto Tongos, and Trujillo and isolated Baha'is in Julcamarca, Talara, and Yurimaguas.\n\nIn 1975 Bahá’ís attending an All-Quechua Bahá’í Conference were photographed beside a sign, which, translated from the Spanish, reads: “Bahá’u’lláh is the return of Viracocha.”\n\nIn 1975–6 Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum travelled by boat through the tributaries of the Amazon River of Brazil and also visiting the high mountain ranges of Peru and Bolivia. Thirty six tribal groups were visited over a period of six months; the trip was called \"The Green Light Expedition\".\n\nThe first Aymara International Baha'i Conference was held in Juli, Peru, in August 1978. More than 200 Baha'is from Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru were present. The entire conference was conducted in the Aymara language.\n\nIn 1980 two teams of Native American Baha'is from Alaska, Canada and the United States representing 10 tribes under the name \"Trail of Light\" traveled from the north to the south starting mid June and taught in Mexico, Belize, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Panama, Bolivia, Chile, Peru and finally Ecuador. In 1984 a reprise of the 'Trail of Light' was undertaken when an international team of five Bahá'ís spent 17 days in Guatemala; they were a Mapuche Indian from Chile, a Quechua from Peru, a Bribri from Costa Rica, and two Guaymis from Panama as well as other efforts in the region. Projects promulgating the religion in southern Peru were noted in the 1980s among the Aymara people.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. World-wide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482.\n\nSince 1977 the international Bahá'í community has established several radio stations worldwide, particularly in the Americas. Programmes may include local news, music, topics related to socio-economic and community development, educational programmes focusing on indigenous language and culture, and Bahá'í introductory and deepening material. A project studied these radio stations through faculty from Northwestern University from 1980–1982, and briefly in 1983, and reviewed Bahá'í Radio projects in Peru and Bolivia as well and resulted in a PhD by Kurt John Hein in 1985 following which he took up service at WLGI Radio Bahá'í. A Bahá'í radio station was established in Peru to nurture and preserve the local culture by featuring local story-tellers and music recorded at station-sponsored annual indigenous music festivals. With regular feedback from experienced institutions operating out of the Bahá'í World Centre progress was maintained in developments of the radio stations in communication with the Audio-Visual Department at the Bahá'í administrative offices. In 1980 almost the entire staff of the radio station in Ecuador traveled to Peru to make extensive presentations to the international Bahá'í media conference in Puno where the second Bahá'í Radio station would be set up. Staff for projects in Bolivia, Chile and Peru participated in successive training and Ecuadoran staff traveled to Peru and Bolivia to assist in those projects. In the feedback it was highlighted that:\n\n\"The most important and indispensable thing is to maintain a happy, loving, spirited team-family. Try to have as high a percentage as possible of your staff native. At least 75%. It is far better to let a native do something wrong than not to give him the opportunity by having a foreigner do it.\"\n\nIn Peru one development for the International Youth Year was when about five hundred youth from eighteen countries in Latin America, North America and Europe attended a Youth Conference in Lima in 1985. Among the tribes and native groups represented were the Aymaras and Quechuas (Ecuador, Bolivia, Peru), the Mapuches (Chile) and the Aguarunas (Peru). Forty-seven youth organizations were officially represented on panels. Organized under the guidance of the Bahá'íNational Assembly of Peru, the conference was opened by Dr. Angel Degado, acting mayor of Lima. The gathering culminated in the creation of eight national and international youth projects including the planting of some 2000 plants in Lima's Grau Square.\n\n• In 2000 Peru abstained from a United Nations human rights resolution about concern over the Bahá'ís in Iran.\n\n• The Bahá'í community of Peru cooperated with the Ministerio Internacional de Desarrollo to promote religious inter-faith understanding aimed at winning wider government recognition for non-Catholic religions, leading to the establishment of a new national Directorate of Interfaith Affairs.\n\nRegional conferences were called for by the Universal House of Justice 20 October 2008 to celebrate recent achievements in grassroots community-building and to plan their next steps in organizing in their home areas. Just a month later a regional conference was hosted in Ecuador by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Ecuador in November 2008 and attracted over 1000 Bahá'ís.\n\nThe US government acknowledged Baha'is in Peru as early as 2005 and the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 41900 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25975414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25975414", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Spain", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Spain\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Spain begins with coverage of events in the history of the Bábí religion in the 1850s. The first mention of Spain in Bahá'í literature was `Abdu'l-Bahá mentioning it as a place to take the religion to in 1916. The first Bahá'í to visit Spain was in 1930 and the first pioneer to stay was Virginia Orbison in January 1947. Following some conversions to the religion the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Madrid was elected in 1948. As of 1959 there were 28 Bahá'ís registered in Spain. Following the spread of the religion the first National Spiritual Assembly was elected in 1962. Following the election the breadth of initiatives of the community increased privately until 1968 when the national assembly was able to register as a Non-Catholic Religious Association in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Information and Tourism allowing public religious events and publication and importation of religious materials. Following this the diversity of initiatives of the community significantly expanded. Bahá'ís began operating a permanent Bahá'í school and in 1970 the first Spanish Roma joined the religion. In 1981 the Bahá'ís held a separate school in the north central region of Spain to which over 100 people form 26 communities attended and the Spiritual Assembly of Mallorca held several month long classes (mostly for non-Bahá'ís) in computer usage in 1985. Fifty years after the first local assembly there were 100 assemblies. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 13300 Bahá'ís in 2005. In 2008 the Universal House of Justice picked the Spanish community to host a regional conference for the Iberian peninsula and beyond.\n\nThere were more than 160 references to the Bábí and Bahá'í religions in the Spanish daily press, books, periodicals and manuscripts from the founding of the religions in 1844 to 1947. The earliest press articles found were published in 1850 and announce the news of the Zanjan upheaval (Madrid October 24) and the Execution of the Báb (Barcelona and Madrid on different days of November). Most of the books found are translations of foreign authors or reference works like dictionaries, encyclopedias or manuals but there are some contributions made by Spanish authors. See also first contact between the Netherlands and the Bábí and Bahá'í faiths.\n\nIn the history of the Bahá'í Faith the first mentions of Spain start in the twentieth century. `Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The seventh of the tablets was the first to mention several countries in Europe including beyond where `Abdu'l-Bahá had visited in 1911-12. Written on April 11, 1916, it was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. The seventh tablet was translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919.\n\n\"In brief, this world-consuming war has set such a conflagration to the hearts that no word can describe it. In all the countries of the world the longing for universal peace is taking possession of the consciousness of men. There is not a soul who does not yearn for concord and peace. A most wonderful state of receptivity is being realized.… Therefore, O ye believers of God! Show ye an effort and after this war spread ye the synopsis of the divine teachings in the British Isles, France, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Russia, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Portugal, Rumania, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, San Marino, Balearic Isles, Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, Malta, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Shetland Islands, Hebrides and Orkney Islands.\"\n\nLeonora Armstrong was an American pioneer living in Brazil when she saw to a translation into Spanish. She decided to go to Madrid to study the Spanish language because Shoghi Effendi, then head of the religion, wanted Spanish literature and she wanted to become proficient in the language. In July 1930 she boarded a French ship which first took her to several ports of call in West Africa and then to Barcelona. From Barcelona she proceeded to Madrid where she intended to take university courses. However she soon fell seriously ill with Scarlet fever for a time and was unable to take courses at a university of Madrid. When she recovered she went on Bahá'í pilgrimage and afterwards focused her efforts in Latin and South America.\n\nIn September 1942 Bahá'í Virginia Orbison pioneered for the first time when she arrived in Santiago, Chile, from the United States to carry on the work begun by Marcia Atwater. See Bahá'í Faith in Chile. After a few years she returned to the US briefly before moving south again -this time to Brazil where she met Leonora Armstrong and reviewed the translation Armstrong had contracted. Starting in 1946, following World War II, Shoghi Effendi drew up plans for the American (US and Canada) Bahá'í community to send pioneers to Europe including Spain; the Bahá'ís set up a European Teaching Committee chaired by Edna True. Orbison was the first pioneer under the European Committee to reach Spain in January 1947. The second pioneer to Spain was Eduardo Gonzales in June 1947 and stayed until March 1948. Orbison describes conditions early on - \"You had to know someone well before you'd dare mention the Faith.\" Nevertheless, a young bank employee had carried on correspondence about Esperanto with a friend of Orbison's in the United States and they were able to meet and discuss the religion. Orbison mentioned that a universal auxiliary language was a Bahá'í teaching. He and a friend returned the next day and both soon joined the religion. Other early contacts were afraid to be associated with the religion. By June 1947 there is mention of the first two converts. In 1948 the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Madrid was formed. Dorothy Beecher Baker, a prominent Bahá'í and member of the Committee, visited the Bahá'ís in Spain among other European countries in 1948 and again in 1951 when she was appointed as a Hand of the Cause. By June 1949 there were two assemblies in Spain when Orbison, Marion Little, and a Spaniard Bahá'í traveled to Barcelona to meet Bahá'ís there. By April 1950 Else Horneman had joined Orbison in Spain.\n\nIn September 1951 the first Iberian conference took place with nine native Bahá'ís and other pioneers who had attended the Fourth European Teaching Conference – recommendations from the consultation included exchanging updated information and further coordination between the communities, and to send contributions for the final work on the Shrine of the Báb. In 1953 a large meeting was held by the Spaniards in Barcelona which Orbison attended. According to Orbison's recollection many years later the next morning the police investigated the meeting and the women staying in the apartment were arrested on investigation that they were communists. All the Bahá'ís of Barcelona were then gathered and questioned. The fact of converting one communist to a religion believing in God, and affirmations of Bahá'í teachings of obedience to government, may have played a role in relaxing the fears of the police. Regardless all were released. In October 1953 Americans pioneers Gertrude Eisenberg and Tenerife True pioneered to the Canary Islands and in June 1954 a young Persian, Shoghi Riaz Rouhani, also moved there.\n\nIn 1955 the first native Carnarians joined the religion and in April the first assemblies of the Canaries were elected simultaneously in the cities of Santa Cruz de Tenerife and Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. By 1955 there was an assembly in Murcia and Alicante in 1956.\n\nBy April 1955 the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Ceuta was elected.\n\nA regional national assembly was elected for the Iberian peninsula from 1957 to 1962. The 1957 convention was witnessed by Charles Wolcott as a representative of Shoghi Effendi. \n\nBorn, raised, and married in Iran, Rúhu'lláh Furúghí moved to Spain in October 1958 with his wife and five children (the youngest, one year of age, the eldest fifteen). They had no knowledge of the language nor of the circumstances in their chosen goal. After spending nine months in Barcelona he moved with his family to Mallorca to assist with the formation of its first local assembly. Three years later the family pioneered once more, this time to Granada where there had been no Bahá`ís.\n\nGuy Murchie is Bahá'í and former staff writer for the Chicago Sunday Tribune and author of several books. For a time around 1958 he was living in Málaga. As of 1959 there were 28 Bahá'ís registered in Spain. In May 1959 the first Bahá'í marriage was registered with the government as a civil ceremony.\n\nThe National Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Spain was first elected in 1962 with attendance by Hand of the Cause Paul Haney. Its first members were: Antonio Jimenez, Luis Ortuno, Francisco Salas, Jose Lopez Monge, Ruhollah Mehrabhkani, Carlos Chias, Ramon Escartin, Isidro Torrella, and Charles Ioas.\n\nIn 1963 statistics on the community counted as follows:\n\nIn 1964 Hand of the Cause John Ferraby visited Bahá'ís of Murcia. Later a regional conference was held in Cartagena, in the south of Spain, to discuss the progress of the religion in Spain. The first assembly of Granada and Santa Maria de Barbara in Cataluñia was elected in 1965. The first national youth school was held in Valencia during July 1966 with about 60 youth attending giving several public talks. It was followed by a school in December in Murcia. In 1967 Hand of the Cause Paul Haney made a return trip through Spain. The English language weekly newspaper \"Guidepost\"of February 16, 1968 mentions the coming of Charles Ioas from Illinois in 1953 as a pioneer. The article mentions details of his work in Madrid as well as his activities in teaching and administration for the religion. In 1970 the first Spanish Roma, Maria Camacho Martinez, joined the religion in Sabadell. In 1972 assembly of the Bahá'ís of Santa Cruz de La Palma was elected and one year later the Arucas and La Laguna assemblies were elected on the Canaries. In 1975 Furúghí was elected a member of the National Spiritual Assembly of Spain. He led a group of Bahá`í youth on a teaching trip of several weeks' duration in Ireland and travelled thousands of kilometres across Spain giving public talks and carrying out different tasks in service to the religion. During the last two years of his life he served as the treasurer of the national assembly. In 1976 Iranian Bahá'í entertainer \"Ahdieh\", who had appeared on Iranian radio & television, decided to move to Spain as a pioneer. Leaving Iran at the age of 25, she continued to build her musical career and has since performed widely at Bahá'í events. A regional conference on the growth of the religion in Spain in 1977 had weeks of public events in the region including a visit from Virginia Orbison, officially declared a Knight of Bahá'u'lláh for Spain. In April 1984, an autonomous Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the Canary Islands was elected. By 1988 two assemblies were composed mostly of Roma. In 1988 the national assembly held its first international youth conference- attendees came from Canada, the Canary Islands, Crete, the Netherlands, Italy, Northern Ireland, Puerto Rico, Spain and the United States. Madrid hosted the 1989 regional European youth conference of Bahá'ís which gathered some 700 attendees from 26 countries and members of three national assemblies.\n\nIn August 1968 the national assembly purchased land for a permanent Bahá'í school. The inaugural summer school, with Hand of the Cause Dr. Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir, in Liria in August 1971 with attendees from 19 communities. In July 1975 Hand of the Cause of God Ugo Giachery gave a talk at the school. In winter 1976 there was a viewing of \"The Green Light Expedition\"documenting Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum's trip up the Amazon River and into the high mountain ranges of Peru and Bolivia. The 1977 session of the school held sessions for children, youth and adults which attracted 227 people including 30 non-Bahá'ís, and 35 children. In 1981 the Bahá'ís held a second school in the north central region of Spain to which over 100 people form 26 communities attended. In 1983 some 200 Bahá'ís from 45 communities gathered for a spiritualization conference at the national school. In 1984 Continental Counselor Mas'úd Khamsí toured among the communities of Bahá'ís and gave public interviews and met with institutions of the religion. The Spiritual Assembly of Mallorca held several month long classes (mostly for non-Bahá'ís) in computer usage in two cities on the island in 1985. In 1986 Bahá'ís in Terrassa and Cartagena held weekend institutes on the subject of the equality of women and men - a core Bahá'í teaching. In 1987 some 170 Persian speaking Bahá'ís gathered at the national school -the keynote talk was given by Adib Taherzadeh.\n\nIn July 1968 that the national assembly received registry number 2 in the Register of Non-Catholic Religious Associations in the Ministry of Justice. This recognition of the National Spiritual Assembly carries with it the automatic legal recognition of all Local Spiritual Assemblies duly formed in accordance with the Statutes of the National Spiritual Assembly after various government levels and to the Supreme Court denied options. In December 1966 a new basic law of the land was approved by national referendum, and one provision of the new law provided for government protection of all religions. To implement this new concept, a Law on Religious Liberty was passed by the national Parliament on June 28, 1967. At the same time the religion was registered in the Ministry of Information and Tourism thus permitting the publication of Bahá'í literature in Spain, as well as the importation and distribution of religious materials from outside the country. Following the registrations it was possible to hold public meetings for the first time and to present the religion a number of venues and several articles on the Faith were published in Catalonia, the Balearic and Canary Islands and elsewhere. Radio program broadcast mention of the religion for the first time. The national assembly initiated the \"Bahá'í News Bulletin\" internally while externally a number of articles were published by various journalists.\n\nIn 1972 an observance of Human Rights Day was sponsored by the Bahá'ís of Barcelona with some 200 persons attending. The guest speaker's talk was entitled \"Equality of Rights and Opportunities, Especially Regarding Women\" while Bahá'í Professor Mehrabkhani presented \"The Spiritual Source of Human Rights.\" The event was held again in 1973 and the Bahá'ís of Tarasa held its first. In 1974 the first televised broadcast mentioning the religion was aired with interviews of Bahá'ís and the Bahá'ís organized their first institute on children. In 1979 radio coverage of the religion expanded with a variety of programs including some regular programs.\n\nIn 1979 the Bahá'í community of Palma Majorca was among nine religious groups asked to participate in a round table discussion sponsored by an ecumenical organization. The Bahá'ís suggested that a group be formed to help teachers include spiritual education, without proselytizing, in the regular school curricula. The Bahá'ís were then asked to develop the idea and present a plan of action at a later meeting. Monthly meetings presided over by a priest were held at the Bahá'í center to work on the project. In 1980 the national assembly began to publish \"Pensamiento Baha'i\" (Baha'i Thought), in bi-monthly form.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482.\n\nIn the Canaries in 1990 European youth gathered in Gran Canaria some of whom went on to form \"Art Sano,\" in 1998 and performed around the island. Bahá'ís were present in the University of La Laguna since the late eighties and officially formed the University Bahá'í Club began to 1993. In November 1992 seventy-two Bahá'ís from the Canaries participated in the second Bahá'í World Congress. In 1994 the Bahá'ís of the Canaries formed the Bahá'í Association of Women.\n\nRegional conferences were called for by the Universal House of Justice in October 2008 and one was held for the Iberian peninsula 24–25 January 2009 to celebrate recent achievements in grassroots community-building and to plan their next steps in organizing in their home areas. More than 1,000 Bahá'ís from Spain, 140 from Portugal, and 135 from the Canary Islands attended. In addition, two Baha’is came from the principality of Andorra in the Pyrenees Mountains, and nine from the Spanish city of Melilla in North Africa. Other people came from Europe, the Americas, Africa, and Asia to share in the gathering.\n\nIn 2000 Spain rose in support of a resolution about concern over the Bahá'ís in Iran as well as taking steps to further document conditions. In 2006, all party groups backed a motion in the Foreign Affairs Parliamentary Committee calling on the Iranian government to respect the rights of the Bahá'ís in Iran. This motion was unanimously approved by all parties represented in that Committee and passed by the Spanish House of Representatives. In 2009, a similar motion was introduced by a member of the conservative People's Party, Juan Carlos Grau, within the Foreign Affairs Parliamentary Committee, which was once again unanimously approved by all parties and passed by the Spanish House of Representatives asking the Spanish government to call for the release of the seven (7) Baha’i leaders [formerly known as the Yaran, or \"Friends\"] in Iran and to condemn the systematic persecution of the Baha’is. It also condemns the human rights violations committed by the Islamic Republic of Iran. See Persecution of Bahá'ís.\n\nThe Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 13300 Bahá'ís in 2005. As of 2007 Bahá'ís established in all the Canary islands spread among about fifty municipalities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2205738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2205738", "title": "Callirrhoe (Oceanid)", "text": "Callirrhoe (Oceanid)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Callirrhoe or Callirhoe (Ancient Greek: Καλλιρρόη, meaning \"Beautiful Flow,\" often written Callirrhoë) was a naiad. She was the daughter of Oceanus and Tethys. She was mentioned as a companion of Persephone when the daughter of Demeter was abducted by the lord of the dead, Hades. Callirhoe had consorted with Chrysaor, Neilus and Poseidon. She was one of the three ancestors of the Tyrians, along with Abarbarea and Drosera. Jupiter's moon Callirrhoe is named after her. She also mothered Cotys by Manes, king of Maeonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1855146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855146", "title": "Christian Social Party (Peru)", "text": "Christian Social Party (Peru)\n\nChristian Social Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Social Cristiano\") was a political party in Peru. Its president was Baltazar Caravedo.\n\n"}
{"id": "715089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715089", "title": "Church service", "text": "Church service\n\nA church service (also called a service of worship, or simply a service) is a formalized period of christian communal worship, often held in a church building. It often but not exclusively occurs on Sunday, or Saturday in the case of those churches practicing seventh-day Sabbatarianism. The church service is the gathering together of Christians to be taught the 'Word of God' (the Christian Bible) and encouraged in their faith. Technically, the \"church\" in \"church service\" refers to the gathering of the faithful rather than to the building in which it takes place. In most Christian traditions, services are presided over by clergy wherever possible.\n\nStyles of service vary greatly, from the Anglican, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Presbyterian, Roman Catholic, and Lutheran traditions of liturgical worship to the evangelical Protestant style, that often combines worship with teaching for the believers, which may also have an evangelistic component appealing to the non-Christians or skeptics in the congregation. Quakers and some other groups have no formal outline to their services, but allow the worship to develop as the participants present feel moved.\n\nThe first miracle of the Apostles, the healing of the crippled man on the temple steps, occurred because Peter and John went to the Temple to pray (). Since the Apostles were originally Jews, see Jewish Christians, the concept of fixed hours for services, and services therefore which differed from weekday to Sabbath to holy day, were familiar to them. Pliny the Younger (63 - ca. 113), who was not a Christian himself, mentions not only fixed times of prayer by believers, but also specific services—other than the Eucharist—assigned to those times: \"They met on a stated day before it was light, and addressed a form of prayer to Christ, as to a divinity ... after which it was their custom to separate, and then reassemble, to eat in common a harmless meal.\"\n\nThe real evolution of the Christian service in the first century is shrouded in mystery. By the second and third centuries, such Church Fathers as Clement of Alexandria, Origen, and Tertullian wrote of formalised, regular services: the practice of Morning and Evening Prayer, and prayers at the third hour of the day (terce), the sixth hour of the day (sext), and the ninth hour of the day (none). With reference to the Jewish practices, it is surely no coincidence that these major hours of prayer correspond to the first and last hour of the conventional day, and that on Sundays (corresponding to the Sabbath in Christianity), the services are more complex and longer (involving twice as many services if one counts the Eucharist and the afternoon service). Similarly, the liturgical year from Christmas via Easter to Pentecost covers roughly five months, the other seven having no major services linked to the work of Christ. However, this is not to say that the Jewish services were copied or deliberately substituted, see Supersessionism.\n\nToday a wide variety of church services exist, from the long and elaborate services of Eastern Christianity to the very basic Evangelistic sermon. Though the majority of services are still conducted in church buildings designed specifically for that purpose, some services take place in \"store front\" or temporary settings. For those unable to attend a service in a church building a burgeoning televangelism and radio ministry provides broadcasts of services. A number of Websites have been set up as \"cyber-churches\" to provide a virtual worship space free to anyone on the Internet.\n\nChurch services are often planned and led by a single pastor or a small group of elders or may follow a format laid out by the dictates of the denomination. Some churches are \"lay led\" with members of the congregation taking turns guiding the service or simply following format that has evolved over time between the active members.\n\nA few begin their church services with the ringing of a bell (or a number of bells). The service usually involves the singing of hymns, reading of scripture verses and possibly a psalm, and a sermon. If the church follows a lectionary, the sermon will often be about the scripture lections assigned to that day. Eucharistic churches have usually Holy Communion either every Sunday or several Sundays a month. Less liturgical congregations tend to place a greater emphasis on the sermon.\n\nVocal music is traditionally sung by a choir or the congregation (or a mixture of the two), usually accompanied by an organ. Sometimes other instruments such as piano, classical instruments, or modern band instruments may be part of the service, especially in churches influenced by the contemporary worship movement. Some churches are equipped with state-of-the-art multi-media equipment to add to the worship experience. The congregation may sing along in hymnals or words to hymns and worship songs may be displayed on a screen. More liturgical denominations may have the words to specific prayers written in a missalette or prayer book, which the congregation follows.\n\nMany churches will take up a collection during the service. The rationale for this is taken from , , and . But some churches eschew this practice in favor of voluntary anonymous donations for which a box or plate may be set up by the entrance, or return-address envelopes may be provided that worshippers may take with them.\n\nSome churches offer Sunday school classes. These will often be for younger children, and may take place during the whole of the service (while the adults are in church), or the children may be present for the beginning of the service and at a prearranged point leave the service to go to Sunday school. Some churches have adult Sunday school either before or after the main worship service.\n\nFollowing the service, there will often be an opportunity for fellowship in the church hall or other convenient place. This provides the members of the congregation a chance to socialize with each other and to greet visitors or new members. Coffee or other refreshments may be served.\n\nChurch services take many forms, and set liturgies may have different names. Services typically include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2880466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2880466", "title": "Favomancy", "text": "Favomancy\n\nFavomancy is a form of divination that involves throwing beans on the ground and interpreting the patterns into which the beans fall; it is therefore a type of cleromancy. Various forms of favomancy are present across the world's cultures. The term comes from the Vicia Faba meaning Fava bean, and by way of cult etymology, from the Latin \"faba\" for \"bean\" and formed by analogy with the names of similar divination methods such as alectromancy.\n\nFavomancy used to be practised by seers in Russia, in particular, among the Ubykh. Russian methods of favomancy may still exist after the departure of the Ubykhs from the Caucasus in 1864, but the details are now lost of exactly how Ubykh soothsayers interpreted the patterns formed by the beans. The Ubykh term for a favomancer (pxażayš’) simply means \"bean-thrower\", and it later became a synonym for all soothsayers and seers in general in that language.\n\nIn Muslim traditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, favomancy is called \"bacanje graha\" 'bean-throwing' or \"falanje\" (from Persian \"fal\" 'to bode'). The fortune-teller places 41 white beans onto a flat surface, dividing them into smaller groups using a complex set of rules. The resulting number of beans in each group is then interpreted as a favorable or unfavorable sign for the different aspects of life represented by each of the groups.\n\nBoth Russian and Bosnian methods are remarkably similar, and likely share a common origin. Since the method is not present in the West, it is possible that the origin might be in the Middle East. A similar method exists in Iran, involving fifty-three peas.\n"}
{"id": "16150118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16150118", "title": "Freedom of religion in Albania", "text": "Freedom of religion in Albania\n\nThe Constitution of Albania provides for freedom of religion, and the Government has generally respected this right in practice. There have been no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious beliefs or practice. In data collected by sociologists Brian Grim and Roger Finke Albania scored low on Government Regulation of Religion, Social Regulation of Religion, Government Favoritism of Religion and Religious Persecution.\n\nThe Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government declares that it generally respect this right. The Government declares its secularism. There is no official religion and all religions are equal; however, the predominant religious communities (Sunni Muslim, Bektashi, Orthodox, and Catholic) enjoy a greater degree of official recognition (e.g., national holidays) and social status based on their historical presence in the country. Official holidays include holy days from all four predominant faiths.\n\nAll registered religious groups have the right to hold bank accounts and to own property and buildings. No restriction is imposed on families regarding the way they raise their children with respect to religious practices. The generally amicable relationship among religions in society contributed to religious freedom.\n\nThe Government doesn't require registration or licensing of religious groups; however, the State Committee on Cults maintains records and statistics on foreign religious organizations that contact it for assistance. No groups reported difficulties registering during the period covered by this report. All registered religious groups have the right to hold bank accounts and own property. Religious movements may acquire the official status of a juridical person by registering with the Tirana District Court under the Law on Nonprofit Organizations, which recognizes the status of a nonprofit association regardless of whether the organization has a cultural, recreational, religious, or humanitarian character. All religious communities have criticized the Government for its unwillingness to grant them tax-exempt status. Since 2003 foreign religious missionaries have been exempt from the residence permit tax.\n\nThe State Committee on Cults, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Tourism, Culture, Youth, and Sports, is charged with regulating relations between the Government and all religious communities as well as protecting freedom of religion and promoting interreligious cooperation and understanding. The committee claims that its records on religious organizations facilitate the granting of residence permits by police to foreign employees of various religious organizations. No organization claimed any difficulty in obtaining residency permits during the period covered by this report. However, as a general rule, foreign religious missionaries were issued only 1-year residency permits instead of the 5-year permits allowed by law for residents in the country more than 2 years. During the period covered by this report, the Committee began working with the Government on criteria that would allow longer-term residency permits of up to 5 years for well-established religious organizations with long-term ties to the country.\n\nThere is no law or regulation forcing religious organizations to notify the Committee of their activities; however, article 10 of the Constitution calls for separate bilateral agreements to regulate relations between the Government and religious communities. The Catholic Church continued to be the only religious community that had finalized such an agreement with the Government. The Committee had a mandate to negotiate agreements with the three remaining groups and created a working group in May 2006 for this purpose. The Committee reportedly reached an agreement with three groups—the Muslim, Orthodox, and Muslim Bektashi communities. VUSH, a Protestant umbrella organization, approached the Committee to negotiate a bilateral agreement but had not received a response by the end of the reporting period.\n\nThe Ministry of Education states that public schools in the country are secular and that the law prohibits ideological and religious indoctrination. According to official figures, religious communities, organizations, and foundations managed 101 educational institutions, of which 15 were officially religious-affiliated schools, with more than 2,600 students. By law the Ministry of Education must license such schools, and curricula must comply with national education standards. The Catholic and Muslim groups operated numerous state-licensed schools and reported no problems in obtaining new licenses for new schools. The Orthodox Church and the Bektashis operated strictly religious educational centers for the training of clerics.\n\nGovernment policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion; however, restitution of property expropriated by the former communist government continued to be a problem. According to the law on the restitution of and compensation for such properties, religious communities have the same rights as private individuals in matters of property restitution or compensation, but the religious communities questioned the law's limitation on property restitution to . During the reporting period, the Government had not established a special fund for monetary compensation, but the Prime Minister's Office consistently attempted to resolve religious property issues. The Government also announced plans to remove bureaucratic and legalistic hurdles that hindered the return of confiscated properties by eliminating the requirement that religious organizations produce titles and deeds to prove original ownership. During the communist era, properties confiscated by the regime generally were recorded, and the Government was working to recognize these archival documents as equivalent to property titles, thus clarifying land ownership in some cases.\n\nAll four major traditional communities had substantial property claims that remained unresolved. In cases involving the return of religious buildings, the Government often failed to return the land surrounding the buildings, sometimes because of redevelopment claims by private individuals who began farming it or using it for other purposes. The Orthodox Church continued construction of a new cathedral in Tirana on a parcel of land that it received as compensation for other land seized by the communist government, but it claimed a lack of action on other property claims throughout the country, as well as difficulty in recovering religious icons and precious manuscripts. Both the Orthodox Church and the Catholic Church were trying to regain possession of archives seized by the communist government and held in the national archives.\n\nAlthough the Catholic Church had substantial outstanding property claims, it indicated that it was not actively pursuing these and had decided to focus its efforts in other areas. Nevertheless, if compensation were eventually to be paid out to other religious groups, it would expect to receive compensation as well.\n\nThe Albanian Islamic Community and the Muslim Bektashis also requested that the Government return a number of properties. The Islamic Community succeeded in obtaining the title to a large parcel of land in Tirana where a mosque once stood. However, it did not receive a building permit for construction of a new mosque. Under the new Urban Regulatory Plan for Tirana, another parcel of land in Tirana, also owned by the Islamic Community, had been set aside for this purpose. The Islamic Community rejected this location as too small and continued to favor the original site. The problem remained unresolved at the end of the period covered by this report. The Bektashi community was also seeking compensation from the Government for victims of religious maltreatment during the communist regime.\n\nThe Orthodox Church's 1954 statute states that its archbishop must have Albanian citizenship; however, the archbishop was a Greek citizen who was seeking Albanian citizenship. During the period covered by this report, the Government did not take action on his citizenship application, submitted in 2003.\n\nGenerally, Albania has very little religious strife. However, there have been some incidents of mistreatment as a result of religious beliefs.\n\nSince 2001 a number of Albanian Muslims have been harassed, discriminated and persecuted because of their religious beliefs. The Security Services of Albania have detained an Albanian imam, Artan Kristo, without any proven conviction. According to Artan Kristo's statements and the statements of a number of Albanian imams and the Muslim Forum of Albania, Kristo is illegally detained, since he did not agree to become a spy for the Albanian Security Services.\n\nWhile there is no law restricting the demonstration of religious affiliation in public schools, there have been instances when students were not allowed to do so in practice. In December 2003, a male Muslim student was prohibited from having his diploma photograph taken because he had a beard. The student was eventually permitted to graduate through the intervention of the Office of the Ombudsman (a government institution tasked with investigating citizens' charges of human rights violations and protecting their fundamental freedoms). \n\nIn 2002, some Bektashi communities outside of Tirana experienced intimidation, vandalism, and threats of violence. Subsequently, the Albanian authorities identified those responsible (non-Albanian citizens) and expelled them for immigration laws violations. There were no new reports of vandalism during the period covered by this report. Bektashi leaders believe that foreign religious influences seeking to undermine the country's efforts to maintain religious tolerance and freedom were at the root of these incidents. Other religious leaders have expressed similar concerns about the potentially divisive role played by foreign religious extremists.\n\nThe General Secretary of the Islamic Community of Albania, Sali Tivari, was shot and killed at the Community's headquarters in January 2003. The General Prosecutor's Office returned the case to the authorities for further investigation and it has remained unsolved by the end of the period covered by this report.\n\nIn October 2003, police arrested Kastriot Myftari, author of the book \"Albanian National Islamism\" on charges of inciting religious hatred against Islam. The book contained the author's opinions on Islam and how the religion has impacted upon Albanian life. According to the prosecutor's office, several statements in the book demeaned Islam. The prosecutor had asked the court for 6 months imprisonment for the author. In June, the court acquitted Myftari of all charges.\n\nDuring year 2004, representatives of the Orthodox Church expressed concerns that churches, crosses, and other buildings were targets of vandalism.\n\nIn November 2005 a speech from Albania's president in London, aroused public protests from The Muslim Forum of Albania that accused the president of insulting Islam.\n\nIn April 2008, a novel from the Socialist MP, Ben Blushi was condemned by a number of Muslim NGO's as racist and Islamophobic. According to the NGO's the author shows signs of racism against the Turks, Romani people and Albanian Muslims in the novel, and portrays the prophet Muhammed in a very disrespectful way.\n\nThere were no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country. There were no reports of forced religious conversion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52207256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52207256", "title": "Gopachal rock cut Jain monuments", "text": "Gopachal rock cut Jain monuments\n\nGopachal rock-cut Jain monuments, also called \"Gopachal Parvat\" Jaina monuments, are a group of Jain carvings dated to between 7th and 15th century. They are located on the south side of Gwalior Fort, Madhya Pradesh. They depict Tirthankaras in seated Padmasana posture as well as standing Kayotsarga posture, in the typical naked form of Jain iconography. This group of Jain monuments is related to numerous others found in the north side of the fort including the Siddhachal Caves.\n\nThe Gopachal rock cut Jain monuments are located inside the fort of Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, on a rock cliff east of the Scindia School. The Gwalior city and the fort is connected to other Indian cities by major highways NH 44 and 46 (Asian Highway 43 and 47), a railway station and airport (IATA: GWL). It is located near other historic Hindu and Jain temples from the medieval era.\n\nThe Gopachal rock cut monuments are a part of nearly 100 Jain monuments found in and around the Gwalior city, but these are dated earlier than the Siddhachal Caves located about north of these monuments. Both monuments were defaced and desecrated around 1527 when the Emperor Babur ordered their destruction. Centuries later, the Jain community restored many of the statues by adding back stucco heads on the top of the damaged idols.\n\nThe prolific Apabhramsha author Raidhu was responsible for consecrating many of the Jain rock carved images as attested by multiple inscriptions. These include the two colossal images of Adinatha (57 feet) and Chandraprabha.\n\nThe Gopachal rock-cut monuments depict the Tirthankaras in seated or standing meditating positions. They are not as colossal as some of those found in the Siddhachal Caves, but they are big. The Gopachal monuments include standing and seated Rishabhanatha (Adinatha), Neminatha, Parshvanatha and Mahavira.\n\nAccording to Jains, Tirthankara Parshvanath delivered his discourse (deshna) on this hill.\n"}
{"id": "5010530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5010530", "title": "Gregory Baum", "text": "Gregory Baum\n\nGerhard Albert Baum (1923–2017), better known as Gregory Baum, was a German-born Canadian priest and theologian in the Roman Catholic Church. He became known in North America and Europe in the 1960s for his work on ecumenism, interfaith dialogue, and the relationship between the Catholic Church and Jews. In the later 1960s, he went to the New School for Social Theory in New York and became a sociologist, which led to his work on creating a dialogue between classical sociology (Marx, Tocqueville, Durkheim, Toennies, Weber, etc.) and Christian theology.\n\nIn the 1970s, he welcomed the insights of the Theology of Liberation that came from Latin America and other societies. He also became interested in the work of Karl Mannheim and developed a program of ideology critique that he hoped would eliminate the ideological elements in religion, especially those elements that preached contempt for others and allowed Christians to remain unmoved by the suffering of the victims of social injustice and structural violence.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, Baum continued his study into ideology critique by integrating the work of the Frankfurt School of Critical Theory. He connected the Frankfurt School's concept of \"the end of innocent critique\" with the Catholic Church's \"preferential option for the poor\". Both concepts extended his interest in ideology critique. Since Baum has always been interested in social ethics, he also studied the work of Karl Polanyi, with whom he sympathized greatly. It was also in the late 1980s that Baum moved to Quebec and developed an interest in Quebec Catholicism, which he saw as more progressive and contextual than its English Canadian and American counterparts.\n\nBorn on June 20, 1923, to a Jewish mother and a Protestant father, in Berlin, he came to Canada from England as a war refugee.\n\nHe arrived by boat in Quebec in 1940 with other Germans, most of them Jewish, and they were interned in refugee camps, under military control. After some transfers between Quebec, Trois-Rivières, New-Brunswick and Farnham, he was finally interned to Sherbrooke, Quebec.\n\nOnly 17 years old at this time of his internment, he considered this period of his life as an incredible adventure. Among the refugees, some intellectuals hastened to set up inside the camps educational systems of which he took advantage. Although Canada had no law for the refugees at this time, Emma Kaufman, member of the wealthy Kitchener, Ontario family, who met them in these camps, pressured the government so that some could complete their studies outside of camps with financial aid (scholarships) that she had collected.\n\nBaum was the professor of theology and sociology at University of Saint Michael's College in the University of Toronto and, after 1986, professor of theological ethics at McGill University's Faculty of Religious Studies. In Montreal, he was associated with the Jesuit [Centre justice et foi] until his death in 2017.\n\nDuring the church council Vatican II he was a peritus, or theological advisor, at the Ecumenical Secretariat, the commission responsible for three conciliar documents, On Religious Liberty, On Ecumenism, and On the Church's Relation to Non-Christian Religions.\n\nIn particular, he advocated the position, as a response to the Holocaust, of the rabbi and philosopher Emil Fackenheim regarding the cessation of efforts to convert the Jews, famously stating:\n\nFrom 1962 to 2004, he was the editor of \"The Ecumenist\", a review of theology, culture and society, which is now published by Novalis. He continued contributing to \"The Ecumenist\", serving as editor of one issue per year until his death. He was also a member and frequent editor of the international Catholic review \"Concilium\". In 2012 he signed the Catholic Scholars' Declaration on Authority in the Church.\n\nAfter retirement, Baum developed an interest in Islam, especially the work of Tariq Ramadan, the European reformer, and in Fernand Dumont, the French Canadian sociologist, philosopher, theologian, and poet, both of whom he admired greatly.\n\nThroughout his life Baum maintained warm and cordial friendships with people from diverse horizons. Canadian author Michael Higgins, who first met Baum in 1968 writes \"Politeness, ingenuousness, and collegiality are the personal as well as professional qualities that have defined his life and vocation no matter the setting—university, chancery, parish hall, retreat house, or activist cell.\" In 1946, while studying mathematics at McMaster University, a friend gave him a copy of Augustine's Confessions. Shortly after he became a Roman Catholic. In 1947 he entered the Augustinian Order and was ordained to the priesthood. In 1978, after leaving the Augustinians, he married his close friend Shirley Flynn and lived with her until her death in 2007. A strong supporter of gays and lesbians in the Church, Baum had been aware since adolescence of his own attraction to men. After moving to Montreal in 1986, he fell in love with a former priest of whom he says, \"his unwavering love, which has given stability to my life as a theologian, has been a gift from God.\" Baum died in hospital in Montreal on October 18, 2017, surrounded by his friends. His funeral was held at his Montreal parish church, Saint Pierre-Apôtre.\n\n\nHe holds honorary doctorates from Huron University College, London, Ontario; St. Francis Xavier University, Antigonish, N.S; Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio; Lafayette College, Easton, Pa.; Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo, Ontario; McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario; Concordia University, Montreal.\n\nIn 1990, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in recognition of being \"a guide and inspiration to generations of students of many different faiths and backgrounds\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50343821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50343821", "title": "Ha-Lapid", "text": "Ha-Lapid\n\nHa-Lapid () (lit. \"The Torch\" in Portuguese) was a Portuguese newspaper, part of the Jewish Community of Porto, founded in 1927 and published until 1958.\n\nIt was founded and directed by Artur Carlos de Barros Basto (Hebrew name: Abraham Israel Ben-Rosh). The first issue was published in April 1927 and the last in 1958, when all were published 156 numbers. Initially, the periodicity was monthly from 1929 went bimonthly, with the latest figures published semiannually\nIt was the rescue work of the newspaper Marranos Portuguese, being declared on the first page of the first issue:\n\nAll issues had eight pages contain lessons of normative Judaism, traditions Crypto-Jewish stories Jewish, history of the Jews in Portugal, news of several Portuguese communities (Porto, Bragança, Lisbon, etc.) and Jewish News from the around the world.\n\nIt had subscribers in several countries in their propaganda leaflets indicated that it circulated in Portugal, Spain, France, England, Holland, Sweden, Germany, Austria, Italy, Yugoslavia, Greece, Palestine, Brazil, Colombia and United States of America.\n\n"}
{"id": "82384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82384", "title": "Heinrich Böll", "text": "Heinrich Böll\n\nHeinrich Theodor Böll (; 21 December 1917 – 16 July 1985) was one of Germany's foremost post-World War II writers. Böll was awarded the Georg Büchner Prize in 1967 and the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1972.\n\nBöll was born in Cologne, Germany, to a Catholic, pacifist family that later opposed the rise of Nazism. He refused to join the Hitler Youth during the 1930s. He was apprenticed to a bookseller before studying German at the University of Cologne. In 1942 he married Annemarie Cech, with whom he would have three sons; she later collaborated with him on a number of different translations of English and American literature into German that he produced over the years. Conscripted into the Wehrmacht, he served in Poland, France, Romania, Hungary and the Soviet Union, and was wounded four times (as well as contracting typhoid fever) before being captured by Americans in April 1945 and sent to a prisoner-of-war camp.\n\nAfter the war he returned to Cologne and began working in his family's cabinet shop and, for one year, worked in a municipal statistical bureau, an experience which he did not enjoy and which he left in order to take the risk of becoming a writer instead.\n\nBöll became a full-time writer at the age of 30. His first novel, \"Der Zug war pünktlich\" (\"The Train Was on Time\"), was published in 1949. He was invited to the 1949 meeting of the Group 47 circle of German authors and his work was deemed to be the best presented in 1951.\n\nMany other novels, short stories, radio plays and essay collections followed.\n\nBöll was extremely successful and was lauded on a number of occasions. In 1953 he was awarded the Culture Prize of German Industry, the Southern German Radio Prize and the German Critics' Prize. In 1954 he received the prize of the Tribune de Paris. In 1955 he was given the French prize for the best foreign novel. In 1958 he gained the Eduard von der Heydt prize of the city of Wuppertal and the prize of the Bavarian Academy of Arts. In 1959 he was given the Great Art Prize of the State of North-Rhine-Westphalia, the Literature Prize of the city of Cologne, and was elected to the Academy of Science and the Arts in Mainz.\n\nIn 1960 he became a member of the Bavarian Academy of Fine Arts and gained the Charles Veillon Prize.\n\nIn 1967 he was given the Georg Büchner Prize.\n\nIn 1972 he received the Nobel Prize for Literature \"for his writing which through its combination of a broad perspective on his time and a sensitive skill in characterization has contributed to a renewal of German literature\".\n\nHe was given a number of honorary awards up to his death, such as the membership of the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 1974, and the Ossietzky Medal of 1974 (the latter for his defence of and contribution to global human rights).\n\nBöll was President of PEN International, the worldwide association of writers and the oldest human rights organisation, between 1971–1973.\n\nHis work has been translated into more than 30 languages, and he remains one of Germany's most widely read authors. His best-known works are \"Billiards at Half-past Nine\" (1959), \"And Never Said a Word\" (1953), \"The Bread of Those Early Years\" (1955), \"The Clown\" (1963), \"Group Portrait with Lady\" (1971), \"The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum\" (1974), and \"The Safety Net\" (1979).\n\nDespite the variety of themes and content in his work, there are certain recurring patterns: many of his novels and stories describe intimate and personal life struggling to sustain itself against the wider background of war, terrorism, political divisions, and profound economic and social transition. In a number of his books there are protagonists who are stubborn and eccentric individualists opposed to the mechanisms of the state or of public institutions.\n\nThe 1963 publication of \"The Clown\" was met with polemics in the press for its negative portrayal of the Catholic Church and the CDU party. Böll was devoted to Catholicism but also deeply critical of aspects of it (particularly in its most conservative incarnations). In particular, he was unable to forget the Concordat of July 1933 between the Vatican and the Nazis, signed by the future Pope Pius XII, which helped confer international legitimacy on the regime at an early stage in its development.\n\nBöll's liberal views on religion and social issues inspired the wrath of conservatives in Germany. His 1972 article \"Soviel Liebe auf einmal\" (\"So much love at once\") which accused the tabloid \"Bild\" of falsified journalism, was in turn retitled, at the time of publishing and against Böll's wishes, by \"Der Spiegel\", and the imposed title was used as a pretext to accuse Böll of sympathy with terrorism. This particular criticism was driven in large part by his repeated insistence upon the importance of due process and the correct and fair application of the law in the case of the Baader-Meinhof Gang.\n\nThe conservative press even attacked Böll's 1972 Nobel Prize, arguing that it was awarded only to \"liberals and left-wing radicals.\"\n\nBöll was deeply rooted in his hometown of Cologne, with its strong Roman Catholicism and its rather rough and drastic sense of humour. In the immediate post-war period, he was preoccupied with memories of the War and the effect it had—materially and psychologically—on the lives of ordinary people. He made them the heroes in his writing. His Catholicism was important to his work in ways that can be compared to writers such as Graham Greene and Georges Bernanos though, as noted earlier, his perspective was a critical and challenging one towards Catholicism rather than a merely passive one.\n\nHe was deeply affected by the Nazis' takeover of Cologne, as they essentially exiled him in his own town. Additionally, the destruction of Cologne as a result of the Allied bombing during World War II scarred him for life; he described the aftermath of the bombing in \"The Silent Angel\". Architecturally, the newly-rebuilt Cologne, prosperous once more, left him indifferent. (Böll seemed to be a pupil of William Morris – he let it be known that he would have preferred Cologne Cathedral to have been left unfinished, with the 14th-century wooden crane at the top, as it had stood in 1848). Throughout his life, he remained in close contact with the citizens of Cologne, rich and poor. When he was in hospital, the nurses often complained about the \"low-life\" people who came to see their friend Heinrich Böll.\n\nHis villains are the figures of authority in government, business, the mainstream media, and in the Church, whom he castigates, sometimes humorously, sometimes acidly, for what he perceived as their conformism, lack of courage, self-satisfied attitude and abuse of power. His simple style made his work a favourite for German-language textbooks in Germany and abroad.\n\nHis works have been dubbed \"Trümmerliteratur\" (the literature of the rubble). He was a leader of the German writers who tried to come to grips with the memory of World War II, the Nazis, and the Holocaust and the guilt that came with them. Because of his refusal to avoid writing about the complexities and problems of the past he was labelled by some with the role of 'Gewissen der Nation' (conscience of the nation), in other words a catalyst and conduit for memorialisation and discussion in opposition to the tendency towards silence and taboo. This was a label that he himself was keen to jettison because he felt that it occluded a fair audit of those institutions which were truly responsible for what had happened.\n\nHe lived with his wife in Cologne and in the Eifel region. However, he also spent time on Achill Island off the west coast of Ireland. His cottage there is now used as a guesthouse for international and Irish artists. He recorded some of his experiences in Ireland in his book \"Irisches Tagebuch\" (\"Irish Journal\"); later on the people of Achill curated a festival in his honour. The Irish connection also influenced the translations into German by his wife Annemarie, which included works by Brendan Behan, J. M. Synge, G. B. Shaw, Flann O'Brien and Tomás Ó Criomhthain.\n\nHe was the president of the then West German P.E.N. and subsequently of the International P.E.N. organizations. He travelled frequently as a representative of the new, democratic Germany. His appearance and attitude were in complete contrast to the boastful, aggressive type of German which had become infamous all over the world during Hitler's rule. Böll was particularly successful in Eastern Europe, as he seemed to portray the dark side of capitalism in his books; his books were sold by the millions in the Soviet Union alone.\n\nWhen Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn was expelled from the Soviet Union, he first took refuge in Heinrich Böll's Eifel cottage. This was in part the result of Böll's visit to the Soviet Union in 1962 with a cultural delegation, the first of several trips he made to the country, during which he built friendships with several writers and connections with many producers of dissident literature. Böll had previously recommended Solzhenitsyn for the Nobel Prize for Literature, under the auspices of his position in the West German P.E.N. When Solzhenitsyn was awarded the prize in 1976, he quoted from Böll's works to the reception committee.\n\nIn 1976, Böll publicly left the Catholic church, \"without falling away from the faith\".\n\nHeinrich Böll died in 1985 at the age of 67.\n\nBöll's memory lives on, among other places, at the Heinrich Böll Foundation. A special Heinrich Böll Archive was set up in the Cologne Library to house his personal papers, bought from his family, but much of the material was damaged, possibly irreparably, when the building collapsed in March 2009.\n\nHis cottage in Ireland has been used as a residency for writers since 1992.\n\n\n\nMore than seventy translations of Annemarie and Heinrich Böll are listed in the bibliography published in 1995 by Werner Bellmann: poetical works of Brendan Behan, Eilis Dillon, O. Henry, Paul Horgan, Bernard Malamud, J. D. Salinger, George Bernard Shaw et al.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20712089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20712089", "title": "History of Anglo-Hindu law", "text": "History of Anglo-Hindu law\n\nAnglo-Hindu law reflected the difference in values between \"law\" in Western tradition and colonial Hindu tradition. It was not until the 1770s, when the British Empire came to colonize India, that the concept of law came into practice.\n\nColonial Hindu law marks a long span of nearly 200 years, beginning in 1772 and ending in 1947. This period may be split into two main phases. The first phase (beginning in 1772 and ending in 1864) is marked by three main events: translation of the \"Dharmaśāstras\" by British scholar-administrators, the use of court pandits to define laws and rules, and the rise of case law. The second phase (from 1864 to 1947) is marked by the dismissal of court pandits, the rise of legislative processes, and a codified law system.\n\nThe British had been observing the country for nearly twenty years before their first implemented legal plan for renovating India’s method of governing. As Europeans began gaining power and increasing the number of territories they controlled, they gradually became acquainted with the way the different territorial systems operated. Beginning with the coastal territories and moving inland, the British accumulated more Indian states. However, they could not oppose the customs and traditions that were already in place without offending the native peoples. Because they only held a minimal amount of power to implement change and enact laws, they had to respect the wishes the natives or reach a compromise. The British had to administer law coinciding with the rule of each zamindar (hereditary leader); this meant that only customary law could be implemented at that time.\n\nThere was tension between the two religious groups (Muslim and Hindu), since the sources of their rules differed greatly. The Muslims' governing body (and laws) derived from the Qur'an and books written by doctors who had studied Sharia. For the Hindu population, however, the guidelines on how to live life came from the \"Dharmaśāstras\" (Sanskrit texts describing duties). Although laws in place were text-based, there was still a great deal of variation between different regions. Customary law was the main type of government in the territories and differed greatly in defining crime, punishment, guilt, how courts were organized and so on.\n\nThe British saw this system as unfair, due to the ambiguity of laws in different regions and lack of a common law. They believed this system to be dysfunctional and an invitation for corruption, due to the ability of judges to decide a case as they saw fit with no precedent. For example, two cases could have virtually-identical facts but the outcome and punishment of the two might be very different. This was not a problem in the Indian tradition, but the British proposed a plan for unifying laws.\n\nIndia underwent a seismic shift in the way in which she was governed on August 21, 1772 when, in Bengal’s capital city Calcutta, a new plan of governance was implemented by Warren Hastings. This marked the first step towards uniting Muslim and Hindu legal traditions. The “Plan for the Administration and Justice in Bengal” (more commonly known as the \"Judicial Plan\") laid the foundation for replacing ambiguous laws that were not formally written down into a British system, with different branches of government. Warren Hastings’ Judicial Plan included a provision which left certain religious matters to traditional law. This stipulated that inheritance, marriage, caste, and other religious use or institutions should be in accordance with the \"Dharmaśāstras\" and not subject to British law.\n"}
{"id": "56506789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56506789", "title": "International Federation of Messianic Jews", "text": "International Federation of Messianic Jews\n\nThe International Federation of Messianic Jews (IFMJ), is an international religious organization that was created in 1978 by a rabbi called Haim Levi. That same year, it was stablished one of the first messianic synagogues in the United States, and also the Jewish Messianic Institute \"Etz Chayim\" (the tree of life) where it was possible to bring rabbis coming from other countries to be trained. This organization, like the other messianic congregations, are not accepted as being jewish by the other mainstream branches of judaism, neither by the orthodox rabinate from Israel.\n\n"}
{"id": "38860453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38860453", "title": "Islam in Guernsey", "text": "Islam in Guernsey\n\nIslam has only a slight presence in the Channel Island of Guernsey, a British Crown dependency. A 2005 BBC interview with a local Muslim man noted \"a few dozen\" practitioners and no mosque or meeting-place.\n"}
{"id": "1861034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1861034", "title": "Jon Nödtveidt", "text": "Jon Nödtveidt\n\nJon Andreas Nödtveidt (28 June 1975 – 13 August 2006) was a Swedish musician. Best known as the lead guitarist and vocalist of the Swedish black metal band Dissection, he co-founded the band in 1989 with bassist Peter Palmdahl.\n\nNödtveidt also performed in several other projects, including The Black (as Rietas), De Infernali, Nifelheim, Ophthalamia (as Shadow), Satanized, Siren's Yell, and Terror, a grindcore band which featured members of At the Gates.\n\nHe also worked as a journalist in \"Metal Zone\", where he was responsible for keeping track of the growing black metal scene. He was a member of the Misanthropic Luciferian Order, now known as Temple of the Black Light, and the Werewolf Legion, a Swedish gang (not to be confused with the Russian Werewolf Legion). Contrary to popular belief, he was not its co-creator, but \"was introduced [...] by close friends at a quite early stage.\"\n\nNödtveidt was convicted of being an accessory to the 1997 murder of Josef ben Meddour, an Algerian gay man. He restarted Dissection upon his release from prison in 2004.\n\nOn 13 August 2006 Nödtveidt was found dead in his apartment in Hässelby, by an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound inside a circle of lit candles.\n\nEarly reports indicated that he was found with an open copy of the \"Satanic Bible\", but these were later dismissed by Dissection's guitarist Set Teitan. According to him, \"it's not any atheist, humanist and ego-worshiping \"The Satanic Bible\" by Anton LaVey that Jon had in front of him, but a Satanic grimoire. He despised LaVey and the 'Church of Satan'.\"\n\nThe said \"Satanic grimoire\" is reputed to be the \"Liber Azerate\", one of the publishings of the Misanthropic Luciferian Order, by which Nödtveidt apparently was influenced, his last album \"Reinkaos\"s lyrics being co-written by the same man who wrote the \"Liber Azerate\".\n\nNödtveidt's brother, Emil \"Nightmare Industries\" Nödtveidt, the rhythm guitarist and keyboardist of gothic industrial metal band Deathstars, wrote a song named \"Via the End\" the night he heard about Nödtveidt's suicide. The song appears as the fifth track on Deathstar's third album \"Night Electric Night\".\n\nRegarding his views on suicide, Nödtveidt said:\n"}
{"id": "1110730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1110730", "title": "Latvia's First Party", "text": "Latvia's First Party\n\nThe Latvia's First Party () was a right-wing, socially conservative and Christian democratic political party in Latvia. It merged with Latvian Way to form Latvia's First Party/Latvian Way in 2007.\n\nIt was founded on 25 May 2002, led by Ēriks Jēkabsons and Ainārs Šlesers. The party included a number of priests from all the major branches of Christianity in Latvia (Lutheran, Catholic, Orthodox and Baptist) and, also, members of \"Jaunā Paaudze (New Generation)\", a controversial charismatic group. As a result, it was informally nicknamed \"the party of priests\" or \"pastors' party\".\n\nUsing populist promises and support from religious organisations, it won 9.5% of the popular vote and 10 out of 100 seats at the legislative elections of October 5, 2002 and has joined all the coalition governments since that time. At the 2006 elections it ran together with Latvian Way; the bloc took 8.58%, but also won 10 seats in parliament. The parties merged the following years.\n\nThe party proclaimed itself to be a strong supporter of the traditional family. It sponsored a constitutional amendment that defines marriage as a union between a man and a woman, unambiguously excluding homosexual unions. Several prominent members of the party have been labelled as homophobic by its critics. E.g. Jānis Šmits who was appointed to the position of chairman of the Parliamentary Human Rights Committee has called his parliamentary colleagues to get familiar with religious writings \"in case they can actually, read\", quoting a passage from The Book of Moses, that could be loosely translated as: \"men having gay sex must die, and their corpses must be left soaking in their own blood\". Additionally, Latvijas Pirmā Partija members have several times made public statements saying that they don't feel that there is a necessity for a gay pride march in Riga, which allegedly contradicts the Freedom of Speech and Peaceful Assembly enshrined in the Constitution of Latvia. The pressure group Mozaīka (Mosaic) have mostly organized Gay Rights Rallies that some religious organizations see as overt frontal attacks on the Latvian way of life. Mozaīka have stated that they have done this to raise awareness for the rights of gays in Latvia via international media. Between annual rallies Mozaīka has done little to slowly generate improved understanding of gays in Latvia and has preferred to follow its strategy of shock tactics. ().\n\nSome have alleged that quoting the Bible as a reference point for legislation can be viewed as unconstitutional, since Latvia is a secular state, where religion is separate from the state ( of the Constitution of Latvia). Supporters of the First Party deny that the \"separation of church argument\" can properly be used to keep people of faith silent when it comes to issues of morality or the passing or failing of laws that have strong moral dimensions. The ideas under the separation of church and state doctrine have to do with (a) the state not being allowed to control the church, or (b) the church not being allowed to control the state. All legislators have the right to vote their conscience.\n\nEconomically, First Party supports the existing status quo in Latvian economics. Compared to other parties, it is less concerned with budget deficits and believes that the government should do everything possible to stimulate economic growth, even at the cost of possibly running deficits. In its first parliamentary election in 2002, First Party also run on an anti-corruption agenda. In the next election, it emphasized its competence and experience (in particular, the achievements of its leader, Šlesers, as the Minister of Transportation).\n\nOn ethnic relations, First Party is viewed as more Russian-friendly than most of the Latvian political parties. Most of the party's supporters are ethnically Latvian but it does not attempt to appeal to Latvian nationalism and has a number of ethnic minorities among its voters. Recently, it created a \"Russian centre\" for its ethnically Russian members.\n\nThe leadership of the party includes several prominent businessmen, most notably, its leader Ainars Šlesers. His critics have attacked the First Party, saying that it is little more than a business project to further Slesers' interests in real estate business. His supporters point to many examples of improvement in Latvia's transportation infrastructure, including the airport and the national railroad.\n\nLargely because of the influence of the First Party a new cabinet-level ministry has been developed, The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. The position of Minister of Children and Family Affairs has been held by Baptist pastor Ainars Bastiks since 2002. This ministry has emphasized reducing the number of children in Latvia's orphan care system. One strategy has been the development and implementation of a new national foster care recruiting and training program, which has grown considerably every year since 2004. Another emphasis of this ministry has to do with the elevation of the importance of the \"father\" in Latvian society. The national holiday, \"Father's Day\" has been proposed with the corresponding encouragements for fathers to take their paternal responsibilities seriously. Stiffer penalties for \"deadbeat dads\" who avoid paying child support have been enacted.\n\nThe first chairman of party, Ēriks Jēkabsons, resigned as Minister of the Interior. Later, due to various disagreements about the direction that the party was taking, he left the party itself and became an independent MP.\n\nFollowing the 2005 municipal election, a Jūrmala businessman Germans Milušs attempted to bribe the members of city council to ensure the election of Juris Hlevickis, a First Party member, as Jūrmala mayor. Hlevickis fell one vote short of becoming the mayor and, in 2007, both Milušs and Hlevickis were convicted and received prison sentences.\n\nDuring the bribery attempt, Milušs's phone conversations were wiretapped by Latvian police. The wiretaps contain cryptic conversations between Milušs and Ainārs Šlesers, which were leaked to national TV in 2006. This resulted in the resignation of Šlesers as the Minister of Transportation on March 17, 2006. Šlesers was not however charged or convicted of bribery and returned to the position of the Minister of Transportation in November 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "56645399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56645399", "title": "Le'Or", "text": "Le'Or\n\nLe'Or is a 501(c)(3) organization in Portland, Oregon. It was founded in 2015 by Roy and Claire Kaufmann. The group publishes a haggadah via its website that substitutes cannabis for lettuce in the seder plate and promotes consumption of cannabis as part of the sacred rituals of Pesach (Passover). The haggadah includes the \"Ten Plagues of the Drug War\" and was meant to inspire discussion about the meaning of bondage in the modern age of mass incarceration and the War on Drugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "40977906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40977906", "title": "List of Khalifas of Ahmed Ullah Maizbhanderi", "text": "List of Khalifas of Ahmed Ullah Maizbhanderi\n\nThis article is a list of Khalifas (successors) of Sufi religious leader Ahmed Ullah Maizbhanderi. The term Khalifa ( \"/\") derives from the Arabic . Its etymological root word is (Khalf) means, behind, relates to someone surviving her or his predecessors. In Sufism, \"Khalifa\" () means a deputy, caliph, successor or apostle of a Sufi sheikh who is to act as an authorized successor of his Sufi Master/ Pir (Sufism) to lead the Sufi Order (Tariqa).\n\nAs the founder of Maizbhanderi Sufi Order , the universal Sufi Saint Ahmed Ullah Maizbhanderi (1826–1906) had millions of followers in South Asia and elsewhere. He appointed hundreds of \"Khalifa\"/ Spiritual Sufi Successors to continue his Sufi teachings and thought among society. These successors came from different territories in addition to disciples from different religions. This list also can be said as Khalifa of Ghaus-e-Azam Ahmed Ullah Maizbhanderi in fact, he is vastly denoted as Ghaus-e-Azam by writers in Parisian, Urdu, Bengali and English works. Among Sufi communities he is known as Ghaus-e-Azam in the perception of spiritual hierarchy.\n\nSome Khalifa remain unidentified because they went to different parts of the region; they wanted to remain anonymous because of self-will and to keep themselves engaged in introspective thought and practices. Some of them became famous by pseudonyms; their original names generally remain unknown, examplease are: Baba Bhanderi (), Harvangiri (), Mandakini (), Forhadabadi () and Rahe Bhanderi ().\n\nA list of his Successors; firstly became published by one of his descendant Delwar Hossain Maizbhanderi in his famous work 'Gausul Azam Maizbhandarir Jiboni O Karamat' (Life sketch of Hazrat Kebla Kaba). In that book the author expressed his sorrow for such an incomplete list. Meanwhile, many among those of his \"Khalifa\" latterly became famous in the society for their own works and Sufi activities. As a continuous process, that list became published twice more in recent days. Once at the preface of Rahe Bhander Sufi Order 'Noxar Shondhane' as a descending followers apart of the Maizbhanderi Sufi Order and latterly at a publication on the 100th Disappearance Anniversary of Ahmed Ullah Maizbhanderi. Here, a spiritual successors' (\"Khalifa\") list of Ahmed Ullah Maizbhanderi is being written following all those and other published lists.\n\nThis list is unable to show neither their seniority nor superiority nor even dignity but names and the place where they born or placed to rest in peace based on available information. It is to note that, none of them are alive now but most of them still have thousands of followers and affectionate. All of them are well known as 'Maizbhaderi' in a common identification purpose. A research report prepared by the Migration Review Tribunal (MRT) and Refugee Review Tribunal (RRT)of Australia reported; today there have over 10 millions of Maizbhanderi Sufi followers across the globe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "853019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=853019", "title": "List of bishops of Lleida", "text": "List of bishops of Lleida\n\nThis is a list of bishops of Lleida.\n"}
{"id": "11789248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11789248", "title": "List of churches in Pakistan", "text": "List of churches in Pakistan\n\nThis is a list of churches throughout Pakistan, at present. It is a dynamic list, in alphabetical order by names of cities/towns etc and can be added to as per the accepted format below. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n19.Tribal Family Church\n\n"}
{"id": "44172392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44172392", "title": "List of hadith authors and commentators", "text": "List of hadith authors and commentators\n\nList of notable authors of hadiths and hadith commentaries:\n\n"}
{"id": "916726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916726", "title": "Luxor Temple", "text": "Luxor Temple\n\nLuxor Temple is a large Ancient Egyptian temple complex located on the east bank of the Nile River in the city today known as Luxor (ancient Thebes) and was constructed approximately 1400 BCE. In the Egyptian language it is known as \"ipet resyt\", \"the southern sanctuary\". In Luxor there are several great temples on the east and west banks. Four of the major mortuary temples visited by early travelers and tourists include the Temple of Seti I at Gurnah, the Temple of Hatshepsut at Deir el Bahri, the Temple of Ramesses II (a.k.a. Ramesseum), and the Temple of Ramesses III at Medinet Habu; and the two primary cults temples on the east bank are known as the Karnak and Luxor. Unlike the other temples in Thebes, Luxor temple is not dedicated to a cult god or a deified version of the king in death. Instead Luxor temple is dedicated to the rejuvenation of kingship; it may have been where many of the kings of Egypt were crowned in reality or conceptually (as in the case of Alexander the Great who claimed he was crowned at Luxor but may never have traveled south of Memphis, near modern Cairo.)\n\nTo the rear of the temple are chapels built by Amenhotep III of the 18th Dynasty, and Alexander. Other parts of the temple were built by Tutankhamun and Ramesses II. During the Roman era, the temple and its surroundings were a legionary fortress and the home of the Roman government in the area.\n\nLuxor temple was built with sandstone from the Gebel el-Silsila area, which is located in South-Western Egypt. This sandstone from the Gebel el-Silsila region is referred to as Nubian Sandstone. This sandstone was used for the construction for monuments in Upper Egypt as well as in the course of past and current restoration works.\n\nLike other Egyptian structures a common technique used was symbolism, or illusionism. For example, to the Egyptian, a sanctuary shaped like an Anubis Jackal was really Anubis. At the Luxor temple, the two obelisks (the smaller one closer to the west is now at the Place de la Concorde in Paris) flanking the entrance were not the same height, but they created the illusion that they were. With the layout of the temple they appear to be of equal height, but using illusionism, it enhances the relative distances hence making them look the same size to the wall behind it. Symbolically, it is a visual and spatial effect to emphasize the heights and distance from the wall, enhancing the already existing pathway.\n\nFrom medieval times the Muslim population of Luxor had settled in and around the temple, at the southward end of the mount. Due to the Luxor’s past city population building on top of and around the Luxor temple, centuries of rubble had accumulated, to the point where there was an artificial hill some 14.5 to 15 metres (48- 50 ft) in height. The Luxor Temple had begun to be excavated by Professor Gaston Maspero after 1884 after he had been given the order to commence operations. The excavations were carried out sporadically until 1960. Over time, accumulated rubbish of the ages had buried three quarters of the temple which contained the courts and colonnades which formed the nucleus of the Arab half of the Modern village. Maspero had taken an interest earlier, and he had taken over the post of Mariette Pasha to complete the job in 1881. Not only was there rubbish, but there were also barracks, stores, houses, huts, pigeon towers, which needed to be removed in order to excavate the site. (There still exists a working mosque within the temple which was never removed.) Maspero received from the Egyptian minister of public works the authorization needed to obtain funds in order to negotiate compensation for the pieces of land covered by the houses and dependencies.\n\nIt has been determined that the Luxor temple holds great significance to the Opet Festival. The Luxor Temple was dedicated to the Theban Triad of the cult of the Royal Ka, Amun, Mut, and Khonsu and was built during the New Kingdom, the focus of the annual Opet Festival, in which a cult statue of Amun was paraded down the Nile from nearby Karnak Temple (\"ipet-isut\") to stay there for a while, with his consort Mut, in a celebration of fertility – hence its name. However, other studies at the temple by the Epigraphic Survey team present a completely new interpretation of Luxor and its great annual festival (the Feast of Opet). They have concluded that Luxor is the temple dedicated to the divine Egyptian ruler or, more precisely, to the cult of the Royal Ka. Examples of the cult, of the Royal Ka can be seen with the colossal seated figures of the deified Ramesses II before the Pylon and at the entrance to the Colonnade are clearly Ka-statues, cult statues of the king as embodiment of the royal Ka.\n\nSix barque shrines, serving as way stations for the barques of the gods during festival processions, were set up on the avenue between the Karnak and Luxor Temple. The avenue which went in a straight line between the Luxor Temple and the Karnak area was recently lined with human-headed sphinxes of Nekhtanebo I,21, in ancient times it is probable that these replaced earlier sphinxes which may have had different heads. Along the avenue the stations were set up for ceremonies such as the Feast of Opet which held significance to temple. Each station had a purpose, for example the fourth station was the station of Kamare, which cooled the oar of Amun. The Fifth station of Kamare was the station which received the beauty of Amun. Lastly the Sixth Station of Kamare was a shrine for Amun, Holy of Steps.\n\nIn 2013, a Chinese student posted a picture of engraved graffiti that read \"Ding Jinhao was here\" () in Chinese on a sculpture. This discovery spurred debate about increased tourism after the media confirmed a Chinese student caused this and other defacements. The engraving has since been partially cleared.\n"}
{"id": "6184352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6184352", "title": "Milo Crispin", "text": "Milo Crispin\n\nMilo Crispin (d. 1149?) was cantor of the Benedictine Abbey of Bec. He wrote the lives of five of its abbots: Lanfranc, Archbishop of Canterbury, Gulielmus de Bellomonte, Boso, Theobaldus and Letardus.\n\nHis life of Lanfranc is printed in the \"Acta Sanctorum\" of the Bollandists (May 28). The other four (those of Theobaldus and Letardus being mere summaries) are included in \"Patrologia Latina\" (Vol. CL).\n\nMilo must have been an old man when he wrote them, for in the last chapter of his life of Lanfranc he relates something which he himself heard St. Anselm say. As St. Anselm died in 1109, and Letardus did not die till 1149, Milo Crispin shows here incidentally that his own religious life had lasted more than forty years.\n\nHe came of the noble race of Crispin descended from the Neustrian, Gislebert, who first received the name Crispin because of his erect curly hair. All Gislebert's sons distinguished themselves, and the family proved generous benefactors to the Abbey of Bec. Two of his descendants subsequently became monks there--Gilbert, afterwards Abbot of Westminster, who wrote the life of St. Herluin, founder and first Abbot of Bec, and his brother Milo. No details of the latter's career have been preserved, nor is it known when he died.\n\n"}
{"id": "53860310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53860310", "title": "Minmose (High Priest)", "text": "Minmose (High Priest)\n\nMinmose was the High Priest of Anhur during the reign of Ramesses II\n\nMinmose was the son of the high Priest of Anhur Hori and his wife Inty. Minmose was well connected. He was the brother-in-law to the Northern Vizier Prehotep I.\nMinmose was married to Buia called Khat-Nisu. Their daughter Huneroy was married to the Vizier Prehotep II.\n\nMinmose succeeded his father Hori as the Chamberlain of Shu and Tefnut, and High Priest of Anhur. The center of worship was at Thinis. The position of High Priest had been held by Nebwenenef. When Nebwenenef was appointed High Priest of Amun, the priesthood of Anhur was given to Minmose's father Hori.\n\n"}
{"id": "2871422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2871422", "title": "Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent", "text": "Muslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent\n\nMuslim conquests in the Indian subcontinent mainly took place from the 12th to the 16th centuries, though earlier Muslim conquests made limited inroads into modern Afghanistan and Pakistan as early as the time of the Rajput kingdoms in the 8th century. With the establishment of the Delhi Sultanate, Islam spread across large parts of the subcontinent. In 1204, Bakhtiyar Khalji led the Muslim conquest of Bengal, marking the eastern-most expansion of Islam at the time.\n\nPrior to the rise of the Maratha Empire, which was followed by the conquest of India by the British East India Company, the Muslim Mughal Empire was able to annex or subjugate most of India's kings. However, it was never able to conquer the kingdoms in the upper reaches of the Himalayas, such as those of modern Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim, Nepal and Bhutan; the kingdoms of the extreme south of India, such as Travancore and Tamil Nadu; or the kingdoms in the east, such as the Ahom Kingdom in Assam.\n\nIslam in South Asia existed in communities along the Arab coastal trade routes in Sindh, Bengal, Gujarat, Kerala, and Ceylon as soon as the religion originated and had early gained acceptance in the Arabian Peninsula, though the first incursion by the new Muslim successor states of the Arab World occurred around 636 CE or 643 AD, during the Rashidun Caliphate, long before any Arab army reached the frontier of India by land.\n\nUthman b. Abul As Al Sakifi, governor of Bahrain and Oman, sent out ships to raid Thane, near modern-day Mumbai, while his brother Hakam sailed to Broach and a third fleet sailed to Debal under his younger brother Mughira either in 636 CE or 643 AD. According to one source all three expeditions were successful, however, another source states Mughira was defeated and killed at Debal. These expeditions were sent without the Caliph Umar's consent, and he rebuked Uthman, saying that had the Arabs lost any men the Caliph would have killed an equal number of men from Utham's tribe in retaliation. The expeditions were sent to attack pirate nests, to safeguard Arabian trade in the Arabian Sea, and not to start the conquest of India.\n\nThe kingdoms of Kapisa-Gandhara in modern-day Afghanistan, Zabulistan and Sindh (which then held Makran) in modern-day Pakistan, all of which were culturally and politically part of India since ancient times, were known as \"The Frontier of Al Hind\". The first clash between a ruler of an Indian kingdom and the Arabs took place in 643 AD, when Arab forces defeated Rutbil, King of Zabulistan in Sistan. Arabs led by Suhail b. Abdi and Hakam al Taghilbi defeated an Indian army in the Battle of Rasil in 644 AD at the Indian Ocean sea coast, then reached the Indus River. Caliph Umar ibn Al-Khattab denied them permission to cross the river or operate on Indian soil and the Arabs returned home.\n\nAbdullah ibn Aamir led the invasion of Khurasan in 650 AD, and his general Rabi b. Ziyad Al Harithi attacked Sistan and took Zaranj and surrounding areas in 651 AD while Ahnaf ibn Qais conquered the Hepthalites of Herat in 652 AD and advanced up to Balkh by 653 AD. Arab conquests now bordered the Kingdoms of Kapisa, Zabul and Sindh in modern-day Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Arabs levied annual tributes on the newly captured areas, and leaving 4,000 men garrisons at Merv and Zaranj retired to Iraq instead of pushing on against the frontier of India. Caliph Uthman b. Affan sanctioned an attack against Makran in 652 AD, and sent a recon mission to Sindh in 653 AD. The mission described Makran as inhospitable, and Caliph Uthman, probably assuming the country beyond was much worse, forbade any further incursions into India.\n\nThis was the beginning of a prolonged struggle between the rulers of Kabul and Zabul against successive Arab governors of Sistan, Khurasan and Makran in modern-day Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Kabul Shahi kings and their Zunbil kinsmen blocked access to the Khyber Pass and Gomal Pass routes into India from 653 to 870 AD, while modern Balochistan, Pakistan, comprising the areas of Kikan or Qiqanan, Nukan, Turan, Buqan, Qufs, Mashkey and Makran, would face several Arab expeditions between 661 - 711 AD. The Arabs launched several raids against these frontier lands, but repeated rebellions in Sistan and Khurasan between 653 - 691 AD diverted much of their military resources in order to subdue these provinces and away from expansion into Al Hind. Muslim control of these areas ebbed and flowed repeatedly as a result until 870 AD. Arabs troops disliked being stationed in Makran, and were reluctant to campaign in the Kabul area and Zabulistan, the difficult terrain and underestimation of Zunbil's power, Arab strategy to extract tribute instead of systematic conquest, and the fierce resistance of Zunbil and Turki Shah stalled Arab progress repeatedly in the \"Frontier Zone\".\n\nMuawiyah established Umayyad rule over the Arabs after the first First Fitna in 661 AD, and resumed expansion of the Muslim Empire. After 663/665 AD, the Arabs launched an invasion against Kapisa, Zabul and what is now Pakistani Balochistan. Abdur Rahman b. Samurra besieged Kabul in 663 AD, while Haris b Marrah advanced against Kalat after marching through Fannazabur and Quandabil and moving through the Bolan Pass. King Chach of Sindh sent an army against the Arabs, the enemy blocked the mountain passes, Haris was killed and his army was annihilated. Al Muhallab ibn Abi Suffrah took a detachment through the Khyber pass towards Multan in Southern Punjab in modern-day Pakistan in 664 AD, then pushed south into Kikan, and may have also raided Quandabil. Turki Shah and Zunbil expelled Arabs from their respective kingdoms by 670 AD, and Zunbil began assisting in organizing resistance in Makran.\n\nArabs launched several campaigns in eastern Balochistan between 661 - 681 AD, four Arab commanders were killed during the campaigns, but Sinan b. Salma managed to conquer parts of Makran including the Chagai area, and establish a permanent base of operations in 673 AD. Rashid b. Amr, the next governor of Makran, subdued Mashkey in 672 AD, Munzir b. Jarood Al Abadi managed to garrison Kikan and conquer Buqan by 681 AD, while Ibn Harri Al Bahili, conducted several campaigns to secure the Arab hold on Kikan, Makran and Buqan by 683 AD. Zunbil saw off Arab campaigns in 668, 672 and 673 AD by paying tribute, although Arabs occupied the areas south of Helmand in 673 AD permanently Zunbil defeated Yazid b. Salm's army in 681 AD at Junzah, and Arabs had to pay 500,000 dirhams to ransom their prisoners, but the Arabs defeated and killed Zunbil in Sistan in 685. The Arabs were defeated in Zabul in next invaded Zabul in 693 AD.\n\nAl-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf Al Thaqifi, who had played a crucial role during the Second Fitna for the Umayyad cause, was appointed the governor of Iraq in 694 AD, further extended to Khurasan and Sistan in 697 AD. Al-Hajjaj also sponsored Muslim expansion in Makran, Sistan, Transoxiana and Sindh.\n\nArab hold on Makran had weakened when Arab rebels seized the province, and Hajjaj had to send three governors between 694 - 707 AD before Makran was partially recovered by 694 AD. Al Hajjaj also fought Zunbil in 698 AD and 700 AD. The 20,000 strong army led by Ubaidullah ibn Abu Bakra was trapped by the armies of Zunbil and Turki Shah near Kabul, and lost 15,000 men to thirst and hunger, earning this force the epithet of the \"Doomed Army\". Abd al-Rahman ibn Muhammad ibn al-Ash'ath led 20,000 troops each from Kufa and Basra in a cautions but successful campaign in 700 AD, but when he wanted to stop during winter, Al-Hajjaj's insulting rebuke led to mutiny. The mutiny put down by 704 Ad, and Al-Hajjaj granted a 7-year truce to Zunbil\n\nRaja Dahir of Sindh had refused to return Arab rebels from Sindh and furthermore, \"Meds\" and others. Meds shipping from their bases at Kutch, Debal and Kathiawar. in one of their raids had kidnapped Muslim women travelling from Sri Lanka to Arabia, thus providing a \"casus belli\" against Sindh Raja Dahir when Raja Dahir expressed his inability to help retrieve the prisoners. After two expeditions were defeated in Sindh Al Hajjaj equipped an army built around 6,000 Syrian cavalry and detachments of \"mawali\" from Iraq, six thousand camel riders, and a baggage train of 3,000 camels under his Nephew Muhammad bin Qasim to Sindh. His Artillery of five catapults were sent to Debal by sea (\"manjaniks\").\n\nMuhammad bin Qasim departed from Shiraz in 710 CE, the army marched along the coast to Tiaz in Makran, then to the Kech valley. Muhammad re-subdued the restive towns of Fannazbur and Armabil, (Lasbela) finally completing the conquest of Makran then the army met up with the reinforcements and catapults sent by sea near Debal and took Debal through assault. From Debal the Arabs moved north along the Indus, clearing the region up to Budha, some towns like Nerun and Sadusan (Sehwan) surrendered peacefully while tribes inhabiting Sisam were defeated in battle. Muhammad bin Qasim moved back to Nerun to resupply and receive reinforcements sent by Hajjaj. The Arabs crossed the Indus further South and defeated the army of Dahir, who was killed. The Arabs then marched north along the east bank of the Indus after the siege and capture of Rawer. Brahmanabad, then Alor (Aror) and finally Multan, were captured alongside other in-between towns with only light Muslim casualties. Arabs marched up to the foothills of Kashmir along the Jhelum in 713 AD, and the stormed on Al-Kiraj (probably the Kangra valley)\nMuhammad was deposed after the death of Caliph Walid in 715 AD. Jai Singh, son of Dahir captured Brahmanabad and Arab rule was restricted to the Western shore of Indus. Sindh was briefly lost to the caliph when the rebel Yazid b. Muhallab took over Sindh briefly in 720 AD.\n\nJunaid b. Abd Al Rahman Al Marri became the governor of Sindh in 723 AD. Secured Debal, then defeat and killed Jai Singh secured Sindh and Southern Punjaband stormed Al Kiraj (Kangra valley) in 724 AD. Junaid next attacked a number of Hindu kingdoms in what is now Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh aiming at permanent conquest, but the chronology and area of operation of the campaigns during 725 - 743 AD is difficult to follow because accurate, complete information is lacking. The Arabs moved east from Sindh in several detachments and probably from attacked from both the land and the sea, occupying \"Mirmad\" (Marumada, in Jaisalmer), \"Al-Mandal\" (perhaps Okhamandal in Gujarat) or Marwar, and \"Dahnaj\", not identified, \"al-Baylaman\" (Bhilmal) and \"Jurz\" (Gurjara country—north Gujarat and southern Rajasthan). and attacking \"Barwas\" (Broach), sacking Vallabhi. Gurjara king Siluka repelled Arabs from \"Stravani and Valla\", probably the area North of Jaisalmer and Jodhpur, and the invasion of Malwa but were ultimately defeated by Bappa Rawal and Nagabhata I in 725 AD near Ujjain.\nArabs lost control over the newly conquered territories and Sindh due to Arab tribal infighting and Arab soldiers deserting the newly conquered territory during in 731 AD.\n\nAl Hakam b. Awana Al Kalbi recovered Sindh, and in c733 AD, founded the garrison city of Al Mahfuza (\"The Well Guarded\") similar to Kufa, Basra and Wasit, on the eastern side of a lake near Brahmanabad. Hakam next attempted to reclaim the conquests of Junaid in Al Hind. Arab records merely state that he was successful, Indian records at Navasari details that Arab forces defeated \"Kacchella, Saindhava, Saurashtra, Cavotaka, Maurya and Gurjara\" kings. The city of Al Mansura (\"The Victorious\") was founded near Al Mahfuza to commemorate pacification of Sindh by Amr b. Muhammad in c738 AD. Al Hakam next invaded the Deccan in 739 AD with the intention of permanent conquest, but was decisively defeated at Navsari by the viceroy Avanijanashraya Pulakeshin of the Chalukya Empire serving Vikramaditya II. Arab rule was restricted to the west of Thar desert.\n\nWhen the Abbasid Revolution overthrew the Umayyads in 750 AD after the Third Fitna, Sindh became independent and was captured by Musa b. K'ab al Tamimi in 752 AD. Zunbil had defeated the Arabs in 728 AD, and saw off two Abbasid invasions in 769 and 785 AD. Abbasids attacked Kabul several times and collected tribute between 787 Ad - 815 Ad and extracted tribute after each campaign. Abbasid Governor of Sindh, Hisham (7in office 768 - 773 AD) raided Kashmir, recaptured parts of Punjab from Karkota control, and launched naval raids against ports of Gujarat in 758 and 770 AD, which like other Abbasid Naval raids launched of 776 and 779 AD, gained no territory. Arabs occupied Sindian (Southern Kutch) in 810 AD, only to lose it in 841 AD.\nCivil war erupted in Sindh in 842 AD, and the Habbari dynasty occupied Mansurah, and by 871, five independent principalities emerged, with the Banu Habbari clan controlling in Mansurah, Banu Munabbih occupying Multan, Banu Madan ruling in Makran, with Makshey and Turan falling to other rulers, all outside direct Caliphate control. Ismaili missionaries found a receptive audience among both the Sunni and non-Muslim populations in Multan, which became a center of the Ismaili sect of Islam. The Saffarid Dynasty of Zaranj occupied Kabul and the kingdom of Zunbil permanently in 871 AD. A new chapter of Muslim conquests began when the Samanid Dynasty took over the Saffarid Kingdom and Sabuktigin seized Ghazni.\n\nMuslim incursions resumed under later Turkic and Central Asian Mongol dynasties with more local capitals, who supplanted the Caliphate and expanded their domains both northwards and eastwards and led to the establishment of the Delhi Sultanate.\n\nUnder Sabuktigin, Ghazni found itself in conflict with the Shahi Raja Jayapala. When Sabuktigin died and his son Mahmud ascended the throne in 998, Ghazni was engaged in the North with the Qarakhanids when the Shahi Raja renewed hostilities.\n\nIn the early 11th century, Mahmud of Ghazni launched seventeen expeditions into South Asia. In 1001, Sultan Mahmud of Ghazni defeated Raja Jayapala of the Hindu Shahi Dynasty of Gandhara (in modern Afghanistan), the Battle of Peshawar and marched further into Peshawar (in modern Pakistan) and, in 1005, made it the center for his forces.\n\nThe Ghaznavid conquests were initially directed against the Ismaili Fatimids of Multan, who were engaged in an ongoing struggle with the Abbasid Caliphate in conjunction with their compatriots of the Fatimid Caliphate in North Africa and the Middle East; Mahmud apparently hoped to curry the favor of the Abbasids in this fashion. However, once this aim was accomplished, he moved onto the richness of the loot of wealthy temples and monasteries. By 1027, Mahmud had captured parts of North India and obtained formal recognition of Ghazni's sovereignty from the Abbassid Caliph, al-Qadir Billah.\n\nGhaznavid rule in Northwestern India (modern Afghanistan and Pakistan) lasted over 175 years, from 1010 to 1187. It was during this period that Lahore assumed considerable importance apart from being the second capital, and later the only capital, of the Ghaznavid Empire.\n\nAt the end of his reign, Mahmud's empire extended from Kurdistan in the west to Samarkand in the Northeast, and from the Caspian Sea to the Punjab. Although his raids carried his forces across Northern and Western India, only Punjab came under his permanent rule; Kashmir, the Doab, Rajasthan, and Gujarat remained under the control of the local Indian dynasties. In 1030, Mahmud fell gravely ill and died at age 59. As with the invaders of three centuries ago, Mahmud's armies looted temples in Varanasi, Mathura, Ujjain, Maheshwar, Jwalamukhi, Somnath and Dwarka.\n\nMu'izz al-Din better known as Shahāb-ud-Din Muhammad Ghori was a conqueror from the region of Ghor in Afghanistan. Before 1160, the Ghaznavid Empire covered an area running from central Afghanistan east to the Punjab, with capitals at Ghazni on the banks of Ghazni river in present-day Afghanistan, and at Lahore in present-day Pakistan. In 1160, the Ghorids conquered Ghazni from the Ghaznavids, and in 1173 Muhammad Bin Sām was made governor of Ghazni. He raided eastwards into the remaining Ghaznavid territory, and invaded Gujarat in the 1180s but was defeated by the Indian queen Naikidevi of Gujarat. In 1186 and 1187 he conquered Lahore in alliance with a local Hindu ruler, ending the Ghaznavid empire and bringing the last of Ghaznavid territory under his control, and seemed to be the first Muslim ruler seriously interested in expanding his domain in the sub-continent, and like his predecessor Mahmud initially started off against the Ismaili kingdom of Multan that had regained independence during the Nizari conflicts, and then onto booty and power.\n\nIn 1191, he invaded the territory of Prithviraj III of Ajmer, who ruled much of present-day Rajasthan and Punjab, but was defeated at the First battle of Tarain. The following year, Mu'izz al-Din assembled 120,000 horsemen and once again invaded India. Mu'izz al-Din's army met Prithviraj's army again at Tarain, and this time Mu'izz al-Din won; Govindraj was slain, Prithviraj executed and Mu'izz al-Din advanced onto Delhi. Within a year, Mu'izz al-Din controlled Northern Rajasthan and Northern Ganges-Yamuna Doab. After these victories in India, and Mu'izz al-Din's establishment of a capital in Delhi, Multan was also incorporated into his empire. Mu'izz al-Din then returned east to Ghazni to deal with the threat on his eastern frontiers from the Turks and Mongols, whiles his armies continued to advance through Northern India, raiding as far east as Bengal.\n\nMu'izz al-Din returned to Lahore after 1200. In 1206, Mu'izz al-Din had to travel to Lahore to crush a revolt. On his way back to Ghazni, his caravan rested at Damik near Sohawa (which is near the city of Jhelum in the Punjab province of modern-day Pakistan). He was assassinated on 15 March 1206, while offering his evening prayers. The identity of Ghori's assassins is disputed, with some claiming that he was assassinated by local Hindu Gakhars and others claiming he was assassinated by Hindu Khokhars, both being different tribes.\n\nSome claim that Mu'izz al-Din was assassinated by the Hashshashin, a radical Ismaili Muslim sect.\n\nAccording to his wishes, Mu'izz al-Din was buried where he fell, in Damik. Upon his death his most capable general, Qutb-ud-din Aybak, took control of Mu'izz al-Din's Indian conquests and declared himself the first Sultan of Delhi.\n\nMuhammad's successors established the first dynasty of the Delhi Sultanate, while the Mamluk Dynasty in 1211 (however, the Delhi Sultanate is traditionally held to have been founded in 1206) seized the reins of the empire. \"Mamluk\" means \"slave\" and referred to the Turkic slave soldiers who became rulers. The territory under control of the Muslim rulers in Delhi expanded rapidly. By mid-century, Bengal and much of central India was under the Delhi Sultanate. Several Turko-Afghan dynasties ruled from Delhi: the Mamluk (1206–1290), the Khalji (1290–1320), the Tughlaq (1320–1414), the Sayyid (1414–51), and the Lodhi (1451–1526). During the time of Delhi Sultanate, the Vijayanagara Empire resisted successfully attempts of Delhi Sultanate to establish dominion in the Southern India, serving as a barrier against invasion by the Muslims. Certain kingdoms remained independent of Delhi such as the larger kingdoms of Punjab, Rajasthan, parts of the Deccan, Gujarat, Malwa (central India), and Bengal, nevertheless all of the area in present-day Pakistan came under the rule of Delhi.\nThe Sultans of Delhi enjoyed cordial, if superficial, relations with Muslim rulers in the Near East but owed them no allegiance. They based their laws on the \"Quran\" and the \"sharia\" and permitted non-Muslim subjects to practice their religion only if they paid the \"jizya\" (poll tax). They ruled from urban centres, while military camps and trading posts provided the nuclei for towns that sprang up in the countryside.\n\nPerhaps the most significant contribution of the Sultanate was its temporary success in insulating the subcontinent from the potential devastation of the Mongol invasion from Central Asia in the 13th century, which nonetheless led to the capture of Afghanistan and western Pakistan by the Mongols (see the Ilkhanate Dynasty). Under the Sultanate, \"Indo-Muslim\" fusion left lasting monuments in architecture, music, literature, and religion. In addition it is surmised that the language of Urdu (literally meaning \"horde\" or \"camp\" in various Turkic dialects) was born during the Delhi Sultanate period as a result of the mingling of Sanskritic Hindi and the Persian, Turkish, Arabic favoured by the Muslim invaders of India.\n\nThe Sultanate suffered significantly from the sacking of Delhi in 1398 by Timur, but revived briefly under the Lodi Dynasty, the final dynasty of the Sultanate before it was conquered by Zahiruddin Babur in 1526, who subsequently founded the Mughal Dynasty that ruled from the 16th to the 18th centuries.\n\nTīmūr bin Taraghay Barlas, known in the West as Tamerlane or \"Timur the lame\", was a 14th-century warlord of Turco-Mongol descent, conqueror of much of western and central Asia, and founder of the Timurid Empire (1370–1507) in Central Asia; the Timurid dynasty survived until 1857 as the Mughal dynasty of India.\nInformed about civil war in South Asia, Timur began a trek starting in 1398 to invade the reigning Sultan Nasir-u Din Mehmud of the Tughlaq Dynasty in the north Indian city of Delhi. His campaign was politically pretexted that the Muslim Delhi Sultanate was too tolerant toward its \"Hindu\" subjects, but that could not mask the real reason being to amass the wealth of the Delhi Sultanate.\n\nTimur crossed the Indus River at Attock (now Pakistan) on 24 September. In Haryana, his soldiers each killed 50 to 100 Hindus.\n\nTimur's invasion did not go unopposed and he did meet some resistance during his march to Delhi, most notably with the Sarv Khap coalition in northern India, and the Governor of Meerut. Although impressed and momentarily stalled by the valour of Ilyaas Awan, Timur was able to continue his relentless approach to Delhi, arriving in 1398 to combat the armies of Sultan Mehmud, already weakened by an internal battle for ascension within the royal family.\n\nThe Sultan's army was easily defeated on 17 December 1398. Timur entered Delhi and the city was sacked, destroyed, and left in ruins. Before the battle for Delhi, Timur executed more than 100,000 \"Hindu\" captives.\n\nTimur himself recorded the invasions in his memoirs, collectively known as \"Tuzk-i-Timuri\". Timur's purported autobiography, the \"Tuzk-e-Taimuri\" (\"Memoirs of Temur\") is a later fabrication, although most of the historical facts are accurate.\n\nMuslim historian Irfan Habib writes in \"Timur in the Political Tradition and Historiography of Mughal India\" that in the 14th century, the word \"Hindu\" (people of \"Al-Hind\", \"Hind\" being \"India\") included \"both Hindus and Muslims\" in religious connotations. However, that does not prove that the men gathering at the mosque were Muslims as it could have been Hindus who gathered at the Mosque for protection.\n\nThe statement implying that Muslims were targeted during the Dehli massacre was contradicted by Timur's own words, during the 15 day massacre of Dehli, Timur himself stated that \"Excepting the quarters of the sayyids, the 'ulama and the other Musalmans (Muslims), the whole city was sacked\", proving that Timur differentiated between the two religious groups (Muslims and Hindus).\n\nDuring the mass murder of Delhi, Timur's soldiers massacred more than 150,000 Indians, and all inhabitants not killed were captured and enslaved.\n\nTimur's memoirs on his invasion of India describe in detail the massacre of \"Hindus\", looting plundering and raping of their women and the plunder of the wealth of Hindustan (Greater India). It gives details of how villages, towns and entire cities were rid of their \"Hindu\" male population through systematic mass slaughters and genocide.\n\nTimur left Delhi in approximately January 1399. In April he had returned to his own capital beyond the Oxus (Amu Darya). Immense quantities of spoils were taken from India. According to Ruy Gonzáles de Clavijo, 90 captured elephants were employed merely to carry precious stones looted from his conquest, so as to erect a mosque at Samarkand — what historians today believe is the enormous Bibi-Khanym Mosque. Ironically, the mosque was constructed too quickly and suffered greatly from disrepair within a few decades of its construction.\n\nKashmir was conquered by the Shah Mir dynasty in the 14th century. Regional kingdoms such as Bengal, Gujarat, Malwa, Khandesh, Jaunpur, and Bahmanis expanded at the expense of the Delhi Sultanate.\n\nIndia in the 16th century presented a fragmented picture of rulers who lacked concern for their subjects and failed to create a common body of laws or institutions. Outside developments also played a role in shaping events. The circumnavigation of Africa by the Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama in 1498 allowed Europeans to challenge Muslim control of the trading routes between Europe and Asia. In Central Asia and Afghanistan, shifts in power pushed Babur of Ferghana (in present-day Uzbekistan) southward, first to Kabul and then to India. The dynasty he founded endured for more than three centuries.\n\nClaiming descent from both Genghis Khan and Timur, Babur combined strength and courage with a love of beauty, and military ability with cultivation. He concentrated on gaining control of Northwestern India, doing so in 1526 by defeating the last Lodhi Sultan at the First battle of Panipat, a town north of Delhi. Babur then turned to the tasks of persuading his Central Asian followers to stay on in India and of overcoming other contenders for power, mainly the Rajputs and the Afghans. He succeeded in both tasks but died shortly thereafter in 1530. The Mughal Empire was one of the largest centralised states in premodern history and was the precursor to the British Indian Empire.\n\nBabur was followed by his great-grandson, Shah Jahan (r. 1628–58), builder of the Taj Mahal and other magnificent buildings. Two other towering figures of the Mughal era were Akbar (r. 1556–1605) and Aurangzeb (r. 1658–1707). Both rulers expanded the empire greatly and were able administrators. However, Akbar was known for his religious tolerance and administrative genius while Aurangzeb was a pious Muslim and fierce advocate of more orthodox Islam.\n\nWhile some rulers were zealous in their spread of Islam, others were relatively liberal. Moghul emperor Akbar was relatively liberal and established a new religion, Din E Elahi, which included beliefs from different religions. He abolished the jizya twice. In contrast, his great-grandson Aurangazeb was a more religious and orthodox ruler.\n\nIn the century-and-a-half that followed the death of Aurangzeb, effective Muslim control weakened. Succession to imperial and even provincial power, which had often become hereditary, was subject to intrigue and force. The mansabdari system gave way to the zamindari system, in which high-ranking officials took on the appearance of hereditary landed aristocracy with powers of collecting rents. As Delhi's control waned, other contenders for power emerged and clashed, thus preparing the way for the eventual British takeover.\n\nAhmed Shah Abdali – a Pashtun – embarked on a conquest in South Asia starting in 1747. In the short space of just over a quarter of a century, he forged one of the largest Muslim empires of the 18th century. The high point of his conquests was his victory over the powerful Marathas in the third Battle of Panipat 1761. In the Indian subcontinent, his empire stretched from the Indus at Attock all the way to the outskirts of Delhi. Uninterested in long-term of conquest or in replacing the Mughal Empire, he became increasingly pre occupied with revolts by the Sikhs. Sikh holocaust of 1762 took place under the Muslim provincial government based at Lahore to wipe out the Sikhs, with 30,000 Sikhs being killed, an offensive that had begun with the Mughals, with the Sikh holocaust of 1746, and lasted several decades under its Muslim successor states. His empire started to unravel not long after his death.\n\nThere is no doubt that the single most important power to emerge in the long twilight of the Mughal dynasty was the Maratha Confederacy (1674 CE - 1818 CE). The Marathas are responsible, to a large extent, for ending Mughal rule in India. The Maratha Empire ruled large parts of India following the decline of the Mughals. The long and futile war bankrupted one of the most powerful empires in the world. Mountstart Elphinstone termed this a demoralizing period for the Muslims as many of them lost the will to fight against the Maratha Empire. Maratha empire at its peak stretched from Tamil Nadu (Trichinopoly) \"present Tiruchirappalli\" in the south to the Afghan border in the north. In early 1771, Mahadji, a notable Maratha general, recaptured Delhi and installed Shah Alam II as the puppet ruler on the Mughal throne. In north India, the Marathas thus regained the territory and the prestige lost as result of the defeat at Panipath in 1761. However regions of Kashmir, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Western Punjab, were captured by Marathas between 1758 and 1759, remained in Afghan rule before ascension of Sikh power. Mahadji ruled the Punjab as it used to be a Mughal territory and Sikh sardars and other Rajas of the cis-Sutlej region paid tributes to him. A considerable portion of the Indian subcontinent came under the sway of the British Empire after the Third Anglo-Maratha War, which ended the Maratha Empire in 1818.\n\nIn northwest India, in the Punjab, Sikhs developed themselves into a powerful force under the authority of twelve Misls. By 1801, Ranjit Singh captured Lahore and threw off the Afghan yoke from North West India. In Afghanistan Zaman Shah Durrani was defeated by powerful Barakzai chief Fateh Khan who appointed Mahmud Shah Durrani as the new ruler of Afghanistan and appointed himself as Wazir of Afghanistan. Sikhs however were now superior to the Afghans and started to annex Afghan provinces. The biggest victory of the Sikh Empire over the Durrani Empire came in the Battle of Attock fought in 1813 between Sikh and Wazir of Afghanistan Fateh Khan and his younger brother Dost Mohammad Khan. The Afghans were routed by the Sikh army and the Afghans lost over 9,000 soldiers in this battle. Dost Mohammad was seriously injured whereas his brother Wazir Fateh Khan fled back to Kabul fearing that his brother was dead. In 1818 they slaughtered Afghans and Muslims in trading city of Multan killing Afghan governor Nawab Muzzafar Khan and five of his sons in the Siege of Multan. In 1819 the last Indian Province of Kashmir was conquered by Sikhs who registered another crushing victory over weak Afghan General Jabbar Khan. The Koh-i-Noor diamond was also taken by Maharaja Ranjit Singh in 1814. In 1823 a Sikh Army routed Dost Mohammad Khan the Sultan of Afghanistan and his brother Azim Khan at Naushera (Near Peshawar). By 1834 the Sikh Empire extended up to the Khyber Pass. Hari Singh Nalwa the Sikh general remained the governor of Khyber Agency till his death in 1837. He consolidated Sikh hold in tribal provinces. The northernmost Indian territories of Gilgit, Baltistan and Ladakh was annexed between 1831-1840.\n\nWill Durant, a famous historian, wrote about medieval India, \"The Islamic conquest of India is probably the bloodiest story in history. It is a discouraging tale, for its evident moral is that civilization is a precious good, whose delicate complex of order and freedom, culture and peace, can at any moment be overthrown by barbarians invading from without or multiplying within.\"\n\nConsiderable controversy exists both in scholarly and public opinion as to how conversion to Islam came about in Indian subcontinent, typically represented by the following schools of thought:\n\nHindus who converted to Islam however were not completely immune to persecution due to the caste system among Muslims in India established by Ziauddin al-Barani in the \"Fatawa-i Jahandari\", where they were regarded as an \"Ajlaf\" caste and subjected to discrimination by the \"Ashraf\" castes.\nCritics of the \"religion of the sword theory\" point to the presence of the strong Muslim communities found in Southern India, modern day Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, western Burma, Indonesia and the Philippines coupled with the distinctive lack of equivalent Muslim communities around the heartland of historical Muslim empires in South Asia as refutation to the \"conversion by the sword theory\". The legacy of Muslim conquest of South Asia is a hotly debated issue even today.\nNot all Muslim invaders were simply raiders. Later rulers fought on to win kingdoms and stayed to create new ruling dynasties. The practices of these new rulers and their subsequent heirs (some of whom were borne of Hindu wives of Muslim rulers) varied considerably. While some were uniformly hated, others developed a popular following. According to the memoirs of Ibn Battuta who traveled through Delhi in the 14th century, one of the previous sultans had been especially brutal and was deeply hated by Delhi's population. His memoirs also indicate that Muslims from the Arab world, Persia and Turkey were often favored with important posts at the royal courts suggesting that locals may have played a somewhat subordinate role in the Delhi administration. The term \"Turk\" was commonly used to refer to their higher social status. However S.A.A. Rizvi points to Muhammad bin Tughlaq as not only encouraging locals but promoting artisan groups such as cooks, barbers and gardeners to high administrative posts. In his reign, it is likely that conversions to Islam took place as a means of seeking greater social mobility and improved social standing.\n\nAurangzeb's Deccan campaign saw one of the largest death tolls in South Asian history, with an estimated 4.6 million people killed during his reign, Muslims and Hindus alike. An estimated of 2.5 million of Aurangzeb's army were killed during the Mughal–Maratha Wars (100,000 annually during a quarter-century), while 2 million civilians in war-torn lands died due to drought, plague and famine.\n\nIslam's impact was the most notable in the expansion of trade. The first contact of Muslims with India was the Arab attack on a nest of pirates near modern-day Mumbai to safeguard their trade in the Arabian Sea. Around the same time many Arabs settled at Indian ports, giving rise to small Muslim communities. The growth of these communities was not only due to conversion but also the fact that many Hindu kings of south India (such as those from Cholas) hired Muslims as mercenaries.\n\nA significant aspect of the Muslim period in world history was the emergence of Islamic Sharia courts capable of imposing a common commercial and legal system that extended from Morocco in the West to Mongolia in the North East and Indonesia in the South East. While southern India was already in trade with Arabs/Muslims, northern India found new opportunities. As the Hindu and Buddhist kingdoms of Asia were subjugated by Islam, and as Islam spread through Africa – it became a highly centralising force that facilitated in the creation of a common legal system that allowed letters of credit issued in say Egypt or Tunisia to be honoured in India or Indonesia (The Sharia has laws on the transaction of business with both Muslims and non-Muslims). In order to cement their rule, Muslim rulers initially promoted a system in which there was a revolving door between the clergy, the administrative nobility and the mercantile classes. The travels of explorer Muhammad Ibn-Abdullah Ibn-Batuta were eased because of this system. He served as an Imam in Delhi, as a judicial official in the Maldives, and as an envoy and trader in the Malabar. There was never a contradiction in any of his positions because each of these roles complemented the other. Islam created a compact under which political power, law and religion became fused in a manner so as to safeguard the interests of the mercantile class. This led world trade to expand to the maximum extent possible in the medieval world. Sher Shah Suri took initiatives in improvement of trade by abolishing all taxes which hindered progress of free trade. He built large networks of roads and constructed Grand Trunk Road (1540–1544), which connects Chittagong to Kabul. Parts of it are still in use today. The geographic regions add to the diversity of languages and politics.\n\nThe divide and rule policies, two-nation theory, and subsequent partition of India in the wake of Independence from the British Empire has polarised the sub-continental psyche, making objective assessment hard in comparison to the other settled agricultural societies of India from the North West. Muslim rule differed from these others in the level of assimilation and syncretism that occurred. They retained their identity and introduced legal and administrative systems that superseded existing systems of social conduct and ethics. While this was a source of friction it resulted in a unique experience the legacy of which is a Muslim community strongly Islamic in character while at the same time distinctive and unique among its peers.\n\nThe impact of Islam on Indian culture has been inestimable. It permanently influenced the development of all areas of human endeavour – language, dress, cuisine, all the art forms, architecture and urban design, and social customs and values. Conversely, the languages of the Muslim invaders were modified by contact with local languages, to Urdu, which uses the Arabic script. This language was also known as Hindustani, an umbrella term used for the vernacular terminology of Hindi as well as Urdu, both major languages in South Asia today derived primarily from Sanskrit grammatical structures and vocabulary.\n\nMuslim rule saw a greater urbanisation of India and the rise of many cities and their urban cultures. The biggest impact was upon trade resulting from a common commercial and legal system extending from Morocco to Indonesia. This change of emphasis on mercantilism and trade from the more strongly centralised governance systems further clashed with the agricultural based traditional economy and also provided fuel for social and political tensions.\n\nA related development to the shifting economic conditions was the establishment of Karkhanas, or small factories and the import and dissemination of technology through India and the rest of the world. The use of ceramic tiles was adopted from architectural traditions of Iraq, Iran, and Central Asia. Rajasthan's blue pottery was a local variation of imported Chinese pottery. There is also the example of Sultan Abidin (1420–70) sending Kashmiri artisans to Samarqand to learn book-binding and paper making. Khurja and Siwan became renowned for pottery, Moradabad for brass ware, Mirzapur for carpets, Firozabad for glass wares, Farrukhabad for printing, Sahranpur and Nagina for wood-carving, Bidar and Lucknow for bidriware, Srinagar for papier-mache, Benaras for jewellery and textiles, and so on. On the flip-side encouraging such growth also resulted in higher taxes on the peasantry.\n\nNumerous Indian scientific and mathematical advances and the Hindu numerals were spread to the rest of the world and much of the scholarly work and advances in the sciences of the age under Muslim nations across the globe were imported by the liberal patronage of Arts and Sciences by the rulers. The languages brought by Islam were modified by contact with local languages leading to the creation of several new languages, such as Urdu, which uses the modified Arabic script, but with more Persian words. The influences of these languages exist in several dialects in India today.\n\nIslamic and Mughal architecture and art is widely noticeable in India, examples being the Taj Mahal and Jama Masjid. At the same time, Muslim rulers destroyed most of the ancient Indian architectural marvels and converted them into Islamic structures, most notably at Varanasi, Mathura, Ayodhya and the Kutub Complex in New Delhi.\n\nHistorian Richard Eaton has tabulated a campaign of destruction of idols and temples by Delhi Sultans, intermixed with instances of years where the temples were protected from desecration. In his paper, he has listed 37 instances of Hindu temples being desecrated or destroyed in India during the Delhi Sultanate, from 1234 to 1518, for which reasonable evidences are available. He notes that this was not unusual in medieval India, as there were numerous recorded instances of temple desecration by Hindu and Buddhist kings against rival Indian kingdoms between 642 and 1520, involving conflict between devotees of different Hindu deities, as well as between Hindus, Buddhists and Jains. He also noted there were also many instances of Delhi sultans, who often had Hindu ministers, ordering the protection, maintenance and repairing of temples, according to both Muslim and Hindu sources. For example, a Sanskrit inscription notes that Sultan Muhammad bin Tughluq repaired a Siva temple in Bidar after his Deccan conquest. There was often a pattern of Delhi sultans plundering or damaging temples during conquest, and then patronizing or repairing temples after conquest. This pattern came to an end with the Mughal Empire, where Akbar the Great's chief minister Abu'l-Fazl criticized the excesses of earlier sultans such as Mahmud of Ghazni.\n\nIn many cases, the demolished remains, rocks and broken statue pieces of temples destroyed by Delhi sultans were reused to build mosques and other buildings. For example, the Qutb complex in Delhi was built from stones of 27 demolished Hindu and Jain temples by some accounts. Similarly, the Muslim mosque in Khanapur, Maharashtra was built from the looted parts and demolished remains of Hindu temples. Muhammad bin Bakhtiyar Khalji destroyed Buddhist and Hindu libraries and their manuscripts at Nalanda and Odantapuri Universities in 1193 AD at the beginning of the Delhi Sultanate.\n\nThe first historical record of a campaign of destruction of temples and defacement of faces or heads of Hindu idols lasted from 1193 through the early 13th century in Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh under the command of Ghuri. Under the Khaljis, the campaign of temple desecration expanded to Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra, and continued through the late 13th century. The campaign extended to Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu under Malik Kafur and Ulugh Khan in the 14th century, and by the Bahmanis in 15th century. Orissa temples were destroyed in the 14th century under the Tughlaqs.\n\nBeyond destruction and desecration, the sultans of the Delhi Sultanate in some cases had forbidden reconstruction of damaged Hindu, Jain and Buddhist temples, and they prohibited repairs of old temples or construction of any new temples. In certain cases, the Sultanate would grant a permit for repairs and construction of temples if the patron or religious community paid jizya (fee, tax). For example, a proposal by the Chinese to repair Himalayan Buddhist temples destroyed by the Sultanate army was refused, on the grounds that such temple repairs were only allowed if the Chinese agreed to pay jizya tax to the treasury of the Sultanate. In his memoirs, Firoz Shah Tughlaq describes how he destroyed temples and built mosques instead and killed those who dared build new temples. Other historical records from \"wazirs\", \"amirs\" and the court historians of various Sultans of the Delhi Sultanate describe the grandeur of idols and temples they witnessed in their campaigns and how these were destroyed and desecrated.\n\nIn 1193, the Nalanda University complex was destroyed by Afghan Khalji-Ghilzai Muslims under Bakhtiyar Khalji; this event is seen as the final milestone in the decline of Buddhism in India. He also burned Nalanda's major Buddhist library and Vikramshila University, as well as numerous Buddhist monasteries in India. When the Tibetan translator, Chag Lotsawa Dharmasvamin (Chag Lo-tsa-ba, 1197–1264), visited northern India in 1235, Nalanda was damaged, looted, and largely deserted, but still standing and functioning with seventy students.\n\nMahabodhi, Sompura, Vajrasan and other important monasteries were found to be untouched. The Ghuri ravages only afflicted those monasteries that lay in the direct of their advance and were fortified in the manner of defensive forts.\n\nBy the end of the 12th century, following the Muslim conquest of the Buddhist stronghold in Bihar, Buddhism, having already declined in the South, declined in the North as well because survivors retreated to Nepal, Sikkim and Tibet or escaped to the South of the Indian sub-continent.\n\nThe Martand Sun Temple was built by the third ruler of the Karkota Dynasty, Lalitaditya Muktapida, in the 8th century CE. The temple was completely destroyed on the orders of the Muslim ruler Sikandar Butshikan in the early 15th century, with demolition lasting a year. He ruled from 1389 to 1413 and is remembered for his strenuous efforts to convert the Hindus of Kashmir to Islam. These efforts included the destruction of numerous old temples, such as Martand, prohibition of Hindu rites, rituals and festivals and even the wearing of clothes in the Hindu style. He is known as \"Butcher of Kashmir\" and among the most hated figures among Kashmiri Hindus.\n\nThe city flourished between the 14th century and 16th century, during the height of the Vijayanagar Empire. During this time, it was often in conflict with the kingdoms which rose in the Northern Deccan, and which are often collectively termed the Deccan Sultanates. The Vijaynagar Empire successfully resisted Muslim invasions for centuries. But in 1565, the empire's armies suffered a massive and catastrophic defeat at the hands of an alliance of the Sultanates, and the capital was taken. The victorious armies then razed, depopulated and destroyed the city over several months. The empire continued its slow decline, but the original capital was not reoccupied or rebuilt.\n\nAround 1024 CE, during the reign of Bhima I, Mahmud of Ghazni raided Gujarat, and plundered the Somnath temple. According to an 1169 CE inscription, Bhima rebuilt the temple. This inscription does not mention any destruction caused by Mahmud, and states that the temple had \"decayed due to time\". In 1299, Alauddin Khalji's army under the leadership of Ulugh Khan defeated Karandev II of the Vaghela dynasty, and sacked the Somnath temple. The temple was rebuilt by Mahipala Deva, the Chudasama king of Saurashtra in 1308. It was repeatedly attacked in the later centuries, including by the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. In 1665, the temple, was once again ordered to be destroyed by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. In 1702, he ordered that if Hindus had revived worship there, it should be demolished completely.\n\n\"Ghazwa-e-Hind\" or the final battle of India is an Islamic term mentioned in some \"good\" hadiths in particular predicting a final and last battle in India and as a result, a conquest of the whole Indian subcontinent by Muslim warriors. The term has recently become a subject of vast criticism in media for being used by militant groups to justify their activities in the Indian subcontinent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7952735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7952735", "title": "Order of the Star in the East", "text": "Order of the Star in the East\n\nThe (OSE) was an international organization based at Benares (Varanasi), India, from . It was established by the leadership of the Theosophical Society at Adyar, Chennai, in order to prepare the world for the arrival of a messianic entity, the so-called \"World Teacher or Maitreya\". The OSE acquired members worldwide as it expanded in many countries; a third of its diverse membership was unaffiliated with the Theosophical Society. The precursor of the OSE was the (, also at Benares) and the successor was the (, based at Ommen, the Netherlands). The precursor organization was formed after leading Theosophists discovered a likely candidate for the new messiah in the thenadolescent Jiddu Krishnamurti (18951986), a South Indian Brahmin who was installed as Head of the Order. Almost two decades later Krishnamurti rejected the messianic role, repudiated the Order's mission, and in 1929 disbanded the OSE's successor. The founding and activities of these organizations, as well as the largely unexpected dissolution of the OSE's successor, garnered widespread media attention and public interest. They also led to crises in the Theosophical Society and to schisms in Theosophy.\n\nOne of the central tenets of late 19th-century Theosophy as promoted by the Theosophical Society was the complex doctrine of intelligent evolution of all existence. This was said to be occurring on a Cosmic scale, incorporating both physical and non-physical aspects of the known and unknown Universe, and affecting all of its constituent parts regardless of apparent size or importance. The theory was originally promulgated in the \"Secret Doctrine\" (published 1888), a book by Helena Blavatsky, one of the founders of contemporary Theosophy and the Theosophical Society.\n\nAccording to this view, Humankind's evolution on Earth (and beyond) is part of the Cosmic evolution. It is reputedly overseen by a hidden Spiritual Hierarchy, the so-called \"Masters of the Ancient Wisdom\", whose upper echelons consist of advanced spiritual beings. Blavatsky portrayed the Theosophical Society as one of the Hierarchy's many attempts (or \"impulses\") throughout the millennia, to guide Humanityin concert with the intelligent evolutionary schemeto its ultimate, immutable objective: the attainment of perfection and the conscious participation in the evolutionary process. Blavatsky stated that these attempts require an Earth-based infrastructure (such as the Theosophical Society), to pave the way for the Hierarchy's physically appearing emissaries, \"the torch-bearer of Truth\". The mission of these reputedly regularly appearing emissaries is to practically translate, in a way and language understood by contemporary humanity, the knowledge required to propel it to a higher evolutionary stage.\n\nBlavatsky also wrote about the possible impact of Theosophy and the Theosophical Society in her book \"The Key to Theosophy\" (published 1889):\n\nBased on this and other Blavatsky writings, Theosophists expected the future advent of the aforementioned \"next impulse\"; additional information was the purview of the Society's \"Esoteric Section\", which Blavatsky had founded and originally led.\n\nAfter Blavatsky’s death in 1891, influential Theosophist Charles Webster Leadbeater expanded on her writings about the Spiritual Hierarchy and the Masters. He formulated a Christology in which he identified Christ with the Theosophical representation of the Buddhist concept of Maitreya. Leadbeater believed that Maitreya-as-Christ had manifested on Earth in several occasions, using in each case a specially prepared person as a \"vehicle\". The incarnated Maitreya assumed the role of World Teacher of Humankind, dispensing knowledge regarding underlying truths of Existence.\n\nAnnie Besant, another well-known and influential Theosophist (and eventual close associate of Leadbeater’s), had also developed an interest on the advent of the next emissary from the Spiritual Hierarchy. During the decades of the 1890s and 1900s, along with Leadbeater and others, she became progressively convinced that this advent would happen sooner than Blavatsky's proposed timetable. They came to believe it would involve the imminent reappearance of Maitreya as World Teacher, a monumental event in the Theosophical worldview. However, not all Theosophical Society members accepted Leadbeater's and Besant's ideas on the matter; the dissidents charged them with straying from Theosophical orthodoxy and, along with other concepts developed by the two, their elaborations on the Theosophical Maitreya were derisively labeled \"Neo-Theosophy\" by their opponents.\n\nBesant became President of the Theosophical Society in 1907, and added considerable weight to the belief of Maitreya's imminent manifestation; this eventually became a commonly held expectation among Theosophists. Besant had started commenting on the possibly imminent arrival of the next emissary as early as 1896; by 1909 the proclaimed \"coming Teacher\" was a main topic of her lectures and writings.\n\nSometime between late April and late May1909, at the private beach of the Theosophical Society Headquarters in Adyar, Chennai, Leadbeater encountered Jiddu Krishnamurti, a fourteen-year-old South Indian Brahmin. At the time Jiddu Narayaniah, Krishnamurti's father and longtime Theosophist, was employed by the Society; the family, in relatively poor condition, lived next to the compound. Leadbeater, a controversial figure whose knowledge on occult matters was highly respected by the Society's leadership, came to believe young Krishnamurti was a suitable candidate for the vehicle of the World Teacherdespite the boy's reputedly dull personality and lackluster intellect. Leadbeater soon placed Krishnamurti, and at the latter's insistence his inseparable younger brother Jiddu Nityananda (\"Nitya\"), under his and the Society's wing; in late1909 Besant, as President of the Society and head of its Esoteric Section, admitted the Jiddu brothers into both. In March1910 she became their legal guardian.\n\nFollowing the \"discovery\", Leadbeater began occult examinations of Krishnamurti, to whom he had assigned the pseudonym the name of a star in the Pleiades star cluster, and of characters from Greek mythology. Leadbeater's belief regarding the boy's suitability was strengthened by his clairvoyance-aided investigations of Krishnamurti's reputed past and future lives. The results of these investigations were recorded, and eventually published in Theosophical magazines starting April1910, and in a book in 1913. They were widely read and discussed within the Society, as according to Leadbeater, contemporary Theosophists were involved in various \"lives of Alcyone\". Such reputed involvement became a matter of status and prestige among Theosophists; it also contributed to factionalism within the Society. In the meantime, Krishnamurti was put on a comprehensive multiyear regiment of physical, intellectual, social, and spiritual training in preparation for his probable future role.\n\nIn late1910 the Theosophical Society published the first work \"by Alcyone\", a booklet entitled \"At the Feet of the Master\". The book became very popular among Theosophists, and around the same time (officially, in January1911), the was founded at Benares (Varanasi) by George Arundale, a prominent Theosophist. Arundale, Principal of the Central Hindu College (CHC), had been impressed by Alcyone’s writings, and formed the Order around a CHC-based study group of disciples headed by Krishnamurti. The new entity was generally focused on the expected World Teacher, yet the recently discovered Krishnamurti-Alcyone wassomewhat obliquelyat the center of its attention.\n\nMeanwhile, the activities and proclamations of Leadbeater, Besant, and other senior Theosophists regarding Krishnamurti and the expected Teacher became entangled in prior disputes within and without the Theosophical Society, and also the subjects of new controversies. The evolving controversies, as well as objections by Hindu members of the CHC faculty, prompted Besant to officially disband the organization in May1911; however, a replacement had already been formed.\n\nIn April1911 Besant founded the (OSE), based again at Benares, which replaced the Order of the Rising Sun. It was named after the Star of Bethlehem, signifying the proclaimed approach of the new manifestation of Christ-Maitreya. The top positions of the organization were filled: \"Mrs Besant and Leadbeater were made Protectors of the new Order of which Krishna was the Head, Arundale Private Secretary to the Head, and Wodehouse Organizing Secretary\". News regarding Krishnamurti, the Order, and its mission received widespread publicity and worldwide press coverage; the publicity may have been at least partly driven by aspects of the era's prevailing \"\" mood.\n\nThe goal of the OSE was to educate and prepare the world for the arrival of the World Teacher and to remove any material obstacles and difficulties from his path. By late1913, the Order had worldwide; most of them were also members of the Theosophical Society. However, membership was open to anyone, the only precondition being acceptance of the \"Declaration of Principles\", which stated the following:\n\nNew members received an OSE certificate , and could thereafter display the organization’s emblem, a five-pointed star.\n\nFollowing its establishment the OSE began its mission in earnest. Lecture tours, meetings and other activities were undertaken by prominent members of the Order. Articles and pamphlets about the OSE and its mission, published regularly by Theosophical organizations, were joined by an official bulletin, \"The Herald of the Star\", originally based at Adyar, which started publication in January1912.\n\nAs Krishnamurti came of age, he embarked on an intensified schedule of lectures and discussions in several countries, and acquired a large following among the membership of the Theosophical Society. National Sections of the Order were eventually formed in as many as forty countries.\n\nOn during a ceremony officiated by Krishnamurti at the close of the annual Theosophical Convention (held that year at Benares), those present were reported to be suddenly overwhelmed by a strange feeling of \"tremendous power\", which seemed to be flowing through Krishnamurti. In Leadbeater's description, \"it reminded one irresistibly of the rushing, mighty wind, and the outpouring of the Holy Ghost at Pentecost. The tension was enormous, and every one in the room was most powerfully affected.\" The next day, at a meeting of the Esoteric Section, Besant for the first time announced that it was now obvious Krishnamurti was indeed the chosen vehicle. Thereafter, 28 December became a \"sacred day\" for the Order.\n\nIn 1912, Krishnamurti's father sued Besant in order to annul her guardianship of his son, which he had previously granted. Among the reasons stated in Narayaniah's deposition was his objection to the deification of Krishnamurti, said to have been caused by Besant's \"announcement that he was to be the Lord Christ, with the result that a number of respectable persons had prostrated before him.\" Besant eventually won the case on appeal.\n\nAlso in 1912, most members of the Theosophical Society's German Section followed its head, Rudolf Steiner, in splitting from the parent Societypartly due to disagreement over Besant's and Leadbeater's proclamations concerning Krishnamurti's messianic status.\n\nControversy regarding the OSE and Krishnamurti again engulfed the Central Hindu College. In 1913, a number of the Order's supporters resigned their positions at the CHC following opposition by the school's administration and trustees, who considered the Order's activities unacademical.\n\nIn 1920, Krishnamurti's younger brother Nitya replaced Wodehouse as Organising Secretary. The next year, the first international Congress of the Order of the Star in the East was held in Paris, France, attended by 2,000members out of then about30,000 worldwide. At the Congress it was decided that there would be no special ceremonies or rituals associated with the Order or with the World Teacher. Also in the 1920s, regularly scheduled multiday Star Camps, supported by well-organized facilities, started to be held in the Netherlands, the United States, and India. They were attended by thousands of members, with coverage provided by local and international media.\n\nIn late1925, close Krishnamurti associate and friend D.Rajagopal was appointed general secretary following Nitya's unexpected death. While the Order's activities continued without visible disruption, Nitya's death was a privately devastating, watershed event for Krishnamurti.\n\nFinancing the venture and subsequent expansion did not appear to present a problem. Properties in several countries were acquired via specially-formed trusts or by affiliates, for a variety of purposes. In collaboration with the Theosophical Society, the OSE had been producing a number of publications and propaganda material ; in 1926, it organized its own publishing arm: the Star Publishing Trust, based at Eerde, Ommen, the Netherlands. Along with an official international bulletin published in Ommen (the \"International Star Bulletin\"), national bulletins eventually appeared in twenty-one countries, and in fourteen different languages. Also in 1926 it was reported that the Order's membership had reached about43,000, twothirds of which were members of the Theosophical Society.\n\nBy efforts of prominent Theosophists and their affiliated factions to favorably position themselves for the expected were reaching a climax. Extraordinary pronouncements of accelerated spiritual advancement were being made by various parties, privately disputed by others. Ranking members of the Order and the Society had publicly declared themselves to have been chosen as apostles of the new Messiah. The escalating claims of spiritual success, and the internal (and hidden from the public) Theosophical politics, alienated an increasingly disillusioned Krishnamurti. His commitment and enthusiasm had been uneven since the Order's early days, and in private he had occasionally expressed doubts about his presumed mission. He refused to recognize anyone as his disciple or apostle. In the meantime, World Teacher-related spinoff projects proliferated: in August1925 the establishment of a \"World Religion\" and a \"World University\" were announced by the Theosophical leadership. Both of them were later \"quietly shelved\".\n\nThe annual Star Congress for 1925 opened at Adyar on the \"sacred day\" of 28December, following the much anticipated but uneventful Theosophical Convention. At the opening, an event occurred that was reminiscent of the incident that had happened on the same day of 1911. Krishnamurti had been giving a speech about the World Teacher and the significance of his coming, when \"a dramatic change\" took place: his voice suddenly altered and he switched to first person, saying \"I come for those who want sympathy, who want happiness, who are longing to be released, who are longing to find happiness in all things. I come to reform and not to tear down, I come not to destroy but to build.\" For many of the assembled who noticed, it was a \"spine-tingling\" revelation, \"felt... instantly and independently\"confirmation, in their view, that the manifestation of the Lord Maitreya through his chosen vehicle had begun.\n\nThe reputed manifestation of the World Teacher prompted a number of celebratory statements and assertions by prominent Theosophists that were not unanimously accepted by Society members. One result was the persistence of controversy regarding the project. Besant and other leaders of the Society largely managed to contain the dissenters and the controversy, but in the process sustained unflattering publicity. However, the so-called \"World Teacher Project\" was also receiving serious and neutral coverage in the global media, and according to reports it was followed sympathetically and with interest by non-Theosophists.\nIn related developments following the perceived manifestation, Besant announced in January1927, \"he World Teacher is here\", and many Star members expected Krishnamurti's unequivocal public proclamation of his messianic status. Reflecting the new situation, in June1927 the name of the organization was changed to , and its main organ was retitled ; the organization relocated at Ommen, with D.Rajagopal serving as Chief Organizer.\n\nThe renamed organization had two objectives:\n\nComplementing the reorganization and the proclamations of the World Teacher's manifestation, in 1928 the so-called , headed by Rukmini Devi Arundale (George Arundale's young wife), was put in motion by Theosophical leaders. Krishnamurti again distanced himself from this endeavor, which Indian and international press reports dubbed \"Mrs. Besant's New Fad\", and it was to be short-lived.\nBy the late1920s, Krishnamurti's emphasis in public talks and private discussions had changed. He had been gradually discarding or contradicting Theosophical concepts and terminology, disagreeing with leading Theosophists, and talking less about the World Teacher; public interest, and attendance at his speaking engagements, remained high. The shift in emphasis mirrored fundamental changes in Krishnamurti as a person, including his increasing disenchantment with the World Teacher Project. They led Krishnamurti to a thorough reevaluation of his relationship with the Project, the Theosophical Society, and Theosophy in general. Finally, on , at the Ommen Star Camp, he disbanded the Order in front of Besant and about 3,000members. In his speech dissolving the organization (also broadcast on Dutch radio), Krishnamurti said:\n\nDespite the changes in Krishnamurti's outlook and pronouncements during the preceding years (and more recent rumors of impending dissolution), the ending of the Order and its mission shocked many of its supporters. Prominent Theosophists openly or under various guises turned against Krishnamurtiincluding Leadbeater, who reputedly stated, \"the Coming has gone wrong\". However, other Society members supported Krishnamurti's new direction, and opposed the critical views expressed by Theosophical leaders.\n\nSoon after the dissolution Krishnamurti severed his ties to Theosophy and the Theosophical Society. He denounced the concepts of saviors, leaders, and spiritual teachers. Vowing to work towards setting humankind \"absolutely, unconditionally free\", he repudiated all doctrines and theories of inner, spiritual and psychological evolution such as those implied in the Theosophical tenets described above . Instead, he posited that his goal of complete psychological freedom could be realized only through the understanding of individuals' actual relationships with themselves, society, and nature.\n\nKrishnamurti returned to the donors estates, property and funds that had been given to the Order in its various incarnations. He spent the rest of his life promoting his post-Theosophical message around the world as an independent speaker and writer. He became widely known as an original, influential thinker on philosophical, psychological, and religious subjects.\n\nIn 1907, the first year for which reliable records were kept, the worldwide membership of the Theosophical Society was estimated at over15,000. During the following two decades membership suffered due to splits and resignations, but by the mid1920s it was rising again; it eventually peaked in 1928 at . The membership of the Order in its various guises kept increasing steadily, yet Krishnamurti's changing message in the period leading to the dissolution may have negatively affected growth. Many members of the Order were also members of the Theosophical Society; consequently, as many as a third of the members of the Society left \"within a few years\" of Krishnamurti's disbanding of the Order. In the opinion of a Krishnamurti biographer, the Society, already in decline for other reasons, \"was in disarray\" upon the dissolution of the Order. While Theosophical publications and leading members tried to minimize the effect of Krishnamurti's actions and the defunct Order's importance, the \"truth... was that the Theosophical Society had been had combatively challenged the central tenet of its beliefs\".\n\nThe failed project led to considerable analysis and retrospective evaluations by the Society and by well-known Theosophists, at that time and since. It also resulted in governance changes in the Theosophical Society Adyar, a reorientation of its Esoteric Section, re-examination of parts of its doctrine, and reticence to outside questions regarding the OSE and the World Teacher Project. According to both theosophical and non-theosophical observers, Theosophical organizations, especially the Theosophical Society Adyar, by the close of the 20thcentury had yet to recover from Krishnamurti's rejection and the entire World Teacher affair, and entered the 21st still dealing with their effects.\n\nEvents and personalities related to the World Teacher Project and the OSE have been portrayed, or alluded to, in artistic and cultural works.\n\n\"The Word of the Master\" (), is a 1925 work for voice and piano by Finnish composer Leevi Madetoja Originally published as \"At the Feet of the Master (\"Alcyone\")\", its devotional lyrics are based on the eponymous book . The three-minute-long work was republished under the new title in 1929; , it was included in contemporary performances on CD-Audio.\n\n\"Benares, 1910\", an episode in the 1990s US television series \"The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles\" created by George Lucas, is taking place in Benares around the time of Krishnamurti's discovery and the formation of the OSE. The hour-long episode loosely (and sympathetically) portrays these and related events. The including series explores the childhood and youth of the fictional character Indiana Jones; in this installment, the protagonist gets to meet the boy Krishnamurti, Besant and Leadbeater. Filmed on location at Benares. The episode originally aired on during primetime, on the ABC television network; it achieved modest Nielsen ratings. It was later re-packaged in a television \"Movie of the Week\" titled \"The Journey of Radiance\"(2000), which was also released, along with related documentary material, on DVD-Video(2007).\n\n\"Blue Dove\", a musical in two acts, is based on Krishnamurti's life between his discovery by Leadbeater and the start of his career as an independent philosopher and speaker following the dissolution of the Order of the Star. The musical, with a running time of two hours and fifteen minutes, premiered in October2004 at Los Angeles' Ivar Theatre and had a three-week stage run; a 40-minute recording of songs was released in 2005. The libretto and plot, by Englishman Peter Wells, employ considerable artistic license in their portrayals of related persons and events.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2864015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2864015", "title": "Pan Twardowski", "text": "Pan Twardowski\n\nPan Twardowski (), in Polish folklore and literature, is a sorcerer who made a deal with the Devil. Pan Twardowski sold his soul in exchange for special powers – such as summoning up the spirit of Polish King Sigismund Augustus' deceased wife – but he eventually met a tragic fate. The tale of Pan Twardowski exists in various diverging versions and forms the basis for many works of fiction, including one by Adam Mickiewicz.\n\nAccording to an old legend, Twardowski was a nobleman (szlachcic) who lived in Kraków in the 16th century. He sold his soul to the devil in exchange for great knowledge and magical powers. However, Twardowski wanted to outwit the devil by including a special clause in the contract, stating that the devil could only take Twardowski's soul to Hell during his visit to Rome – a place the sorcerer never intended to go. Other variants of the story have Twardowski being sold to the devil as a child by his father.\n\nWith the devil's aid, Twardowski quickly rose to wealth and fame, eventually becoming a courtier of King Sigismund Augustus, who sought consolation in magic and astrology after the death of his beloved wife, Barbara Radziwiłł. He was said to have summoned the ghost of the late queen to comfort the grieving king, using a magic mirror. The sorcerer also wrote two books, both dictated to him by the devil – a book on magic and an encyclopedia. \n\nAfter years of evading his fate, Twardowski was eventually tricked by the devil and caught not in the city, but at an inn called \"Rzym\" (\"Rome\" in Polish). While being spirited away, Twardowski started to pray to the Virgin Mary, who made the devil drop his victim midway to Hell. Twardowski fell on the Moon where he lives to this day. His only companion is his sidekick whom he once turned into a spider; from time to time Twardowski lets the spider descend to Earth on a thread and bring him news from the world below.\n\nSome German historians have suggested that Twardowski may have been a German nobleman who was born in Nuremberg and studied in Wittenberg before coming to Kraków. His speculative name \"Laurentius Dhur\" was Latinised to \"Durus\" and in turn rendered as \"Twardowski\" in Polish; \"durus\" and \"twardy\" mean \"hard\" in Latin and Polish respectively. There is also some speculation that this legend was inspired by the life of either John Dee or his associate Edward Kelley, both of whom lived in Kraków for a time.\n\nThe title \"Pan\", used as a universal honorific and polite form of address in modern Polish, was reserved for members of nobility (\"szlachta\") at the time the tale developed and was roughly equivalent to the English \"Sir\" (see Polish name). Twardowski's forename is sometimes given as \"Jan\" (John), although most versions of his tale do not mention a forename at all. This, however, may have resulted as a confusion between \"Pan Twardowski\" and a Polish Catholic priest writer, Jan Twardowski.\n\nThe legend of Pan Twardowski inspired a great number of Polish, Ukrainian, Russian and German poets, novelists, composers, directors and other artists.\n\nOne of the best known literary works featuring Pan Twardowski is the humorous ballad \"Pani Twardowska\" by Adam Mickiewicz (1822). In this version of the story, Twardowski agrees to be taken to Hell on the condition that the devil spends one year living with his wife, Pani (Lady) Twardowska. The devil, however, prefers to run away and thus Pan Twardowski is saved. Stanisław Moniuszko wrote music for the ballad in 1869.\n\nOther works based on the legend include:\n\n\nPan Twardowski is also a popular character in the folk art of the Kraków region. He may be found, for example, in some of the famous Cracovian cribs (szopki). He is typically depicted as a Polish noble either riding a rooster or standing on the Moon.\n\nPan Twardowski is said to have lived in or near Kraków, the capital of Poland at the time. Different places in Kraków claim to be the exact location of Twardowski's house. The sorcerer might have lived either somewhere in the city center, near the Rynek Główny or Ulica Grodzka, or across the River Vistula in the village of Krzemionki (now part of Kraków).\n\nAcross Poland, there are a number of inns and pubs called \"Rome\" (\"Rzym\"), all of which claim to be the one where Pan Twardowski met the devil. The oldest of these inns date back to only the late 17th century, about 100 years after Twardowski's time. The one in Sucha is probably the best known of these inns.\n\nIn the sacristy of a church in Węgrów, hangs a polished metal plate claimed to be the magic mirror which once belonged to Pan Twardowski. According to a legend, it was possible to see future events reflected in the mirror until it was broken in 1812 by Emperor Napoléon Bonaparte of France when he saw in it his future retreat from Russia and collapse of his empire.\n\nIt is also said that Pan Twardowski spent some time in the city of Bydgoszcz, where, in his memory, a figure was recently mounted in a window of a tenement, overseeing the Old Town. At 1:13 p.m. and 9:13 p.m. the window opens and Pan Twardowski appears, to the accompaniment of weird music and devilish laughter. He takes a bow, waves his hand, and then disappears. This little show gathers crowds of amused spectators.\n\n"}
{"id": "3913634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3913634", "title": "Ramanandi Sampradaya", "text": "Ramanandi Sampradaya\n\nThe Ramanandi (IAST ), also known as the Ramayats or the Ramavats (IAST ), are a branch of the Vaishnava Sri Sampradaya of Hinduism.\n\nPeople of this caste are known as Vaishnav Brahmins in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh And Rajasthan. At the beginning of the 20th century, this sect declared to be the descendants of Rāma's sons, Kusha and Lava.\nThis Caste People were From Different castes Of Jats and Rajputs. They Have Brahman, Jat and Rajput Gotras.\nThey Fought Many Wars with Mughals. After Renuciating Weapons ,they Began to do Brahman things and Started Studying Vedas and Upanishads.\n\nThe Ramanandi Sampradaya is one of the largest and most egalitarian Hindu sects India, around the Ganges Plain, and Nepal today. It mainly emphasizes the worship of Rāma, as well as Vishnu directly and other incarnations. While considered Vaiṣṇava, the Ramanandi are the largest ascetic group that celebrates the Śivarātri festival, which is dedicated to Shiva. ascetics rely upon meditation and strict ascetic practices, but also believe that the grace of god is required for them to achieve liberation. For that reason, the section of the ascetics, unlike some ascetics, do not cut the sacred thread. Their reasoning for this is that only or can grant liberation.\n\nMost Ramanandis consider themselves to be the followers of Ramananda, a Vaishnava saint in medieval India. Philosophically, they are in the Vishishtadvaita (IAST ) tradition.\n\nIts ascetic wing constitutes the largest Vaishnava monastic order and may possibly be the largest monastic order in all of India. There are two major subgroups of Ramanandi ascetics: the Tyagi, who use ash for initiation, and the Naga, who are the militant wing.\n\n\"Bhaktamal\", a gigantic hagiographic work on Hindu saints and devotees written by Raghavadas in 1660, was a core text for all Vaishnavas including Ramanandis. This text lists Ramanuja, expounder of Vishishtadvaita school of Vedanta, and Ramananda as saints of the Ramanuja Sampradaya but Galta peeth of Ramanandi Vaishnavas have ruled out this by prohibiting Ramanuja Vaishnavas from taking Shahi snan in Kumbh Mela. Many localized commentaries of \"Bhaktakamal\" were taught to young Vaishnavas across India. In the 19th century, proliferation of the printing press in the Gangetic plains of North India allowed various commentaries of the text to be widely distributed. Of these, Bhagavan Prasad's \"Shri Bhaktamal: Tika, Tilak, aur Namvali Sahit\" was considered to be the most authoritative. In this text, Bhagvan Prasad lists 108 prominent Vaishnavas starting with Ramanuja and ending with Ramananda. Ramananda's guru Raghavananda is described as an egalitarian guru who taught students of all castes. Ramananda himself is described as an avatar of Rama, a humble student with great yogic talents who was asked to form his own sampradaya as a punishment by his guru. The text located his birth in Prayag in c. 1300 CE.\n\nJ.N. Farquhar, a noted missionary and indologist, published his own work on the Ramanandi Sampradaya based on his interaction with various Ramanandis at the \"Kumbh Mela\" of 1918. Farquhar credits Ramananda (c. 1400–1470 CE) and his followers as the origin of the North Indian practice of using Ram to refer to the Absolute. Based on the textual evidence and similarity of sect marks between Ramanandis and Sri Vaishnavas, Farquhar concludes that Ramananda migrated to Benares from Tamil Nadu. He acknowledges that Ramananda accepted disciples from all castes and did not observe the restrictions in matters of food. However, Farquhar finds no evidence to show that Ramananda endeavoured to \"overturn caste as a social institution\". On the other hand, Sita Ram, author of the \"Vaishnava history of Ayodhya\", and George Grierson, eminent linguist and Indologist, represent Ramananda as saint who tried to transcend caste divisions of medieval India through the message of love and equality. The scholars also disagree on Ramananda's connection with Ramanuja. While Farquhar finds them completely unconnected, Sita Ram and Grierson place Ramananda within the Ramanuja tradition.\n\nUp to the nineteenth century, many of the trade routes in northern India were guarded by groups of warrior-ascetics, including the Nāgā sections of the Rāmānandīs, who were feared because of their strength and fearlessness. The British took steps to disarm these militant groups of ascetics, but even today the sects still retain their heroic traditions.\n\nRamanandi live chiefly in the northern part of India. Ramanandi monasteries are found throughout western and central India, the Ganges basin, the Nepalese Terai, and the Himalayan foothills. Ramanandis are spread across India, mainly in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The majority of Hindu immigrants to Trinidad and Tobago belonged to Vaishnava sects such as the Ramanandi. Hindus in Trinidad and Tobago currently practice based on the teachings of Ramananda.\n\nSaints Dhanna and Pipa were among the immediate disciples of Ramananda. Hymns written by them find mention in the Adi Granth, holy scripture of the Sikhs. Sects founded by saints Raidas, Sena and Maluk Das are also of a direct Ramanandi origin.\n\nThe poet-saint Tulsidas, who composed the Ramcharitmanas, was a member of this sect. His writings made Vishnu and Shiva devotees of each other and thereby bridged the gap between Vaishnavas and Shaivites. Because Tulsidas attempted to reconcile various theologies scholars like Ramchandra Shukla do not agree that he can considered to be a Ramanandi exclusively.\n\nSome sources say Jayadeva, who composed the Gita Govinda, was also a member of this sect. Other sources classify Jayadeva simply as a Bengal Vaishnava.\n\nSome sources say that Kabir was a disciple of Ramananda. Other sources say that Ramananda was a student of Kabir. Kabir also founded a separate sect that is now known as the Kabirpanthi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10857011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10857011", "title": "Resacralization", "text": "Resacralization\n\nResacralization is the return of religious meanings to public sectors of social life such as politics, the arts, and the body, and the resistance of secularization. This is consistent with Berger's (1967) definition of secularization as the removal of religious meanings from public life, or privatization. Another possible definition of resacralization would be the growing realization that the separation between public and private spheres is itself a cultural construction of modern society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42046825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42046825", "title": "Roy Eaton", "text": "Roy Eaton\n\nRoy Eaton (born May 14, 1930) is an American pianist and advertising creative. He is cited as the first black American prominent in the field of advertising.\n\nThe son of Jamaican immigrants, Eaton grew up in Harlem. His father was a mechanic and his mother a domestic servant.\nHe took up classical piano when he was six and shortly after, in 1937, played at Carnegie Hall, winning gold medal in a Music Education League competition.\nIn June 1950, he won the first Kosciuszko Foundation Chopin Award. He made his concert debut with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra performing Chopin’s F Minor Concerto under George Schick in 1951. He was reengaged to perform Beethoven’s 4th the following season, and also made his New York Town Hall debut in 1952.\n\nHis education included the City College of New York, the Manhattan School of Music, the University of Zurich, and Yale; he subsequently became a music instructor at the Manhattan School of Music.\n\nHe was drafted for two years into the U.S. Army at the time of the Korean War, serving all of that time in a hospital radio station,WFDH in Fort Dix, NJ where he wrote and produced radio and TV programs.\n\nIn 1955, on leaving the Army, Eaton was taken on as a copywriter and composer at Young & Rubicam, and in his first two years created 75% of all the music produced there. In 1957, physicians gave him a 10 percent chance of surviving an automobile accident in Utah that left him comatose and killed his wife of under one year. He worked almost three decades in advertising, with Young & Rubicam, Benton & Bowles and later his own company, Roy Eaton Music Inc.\n\nIn 1986, he returned to regular concert performance at Alice Tully Hall, in Lincoln Center with a unique program format, \"The Meditative Chopin\", a subsequent \"The Meditative Chopin II\" in 1987 and a third recital in the same hall in 1992.\nEaton is a long-time practitioner of Transcendental Meditation. Beginning in 1968. He was inducted into the Advertising Hall of Fame in 2010\n\n"}
{"id": "6434443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6434443", "title": "Sarbloh Warriors", "text": "Sarbloh Warriors\n\nSarbloh Warriors is a computer game in development by Taranjit Singh, a Birmingham-based Sikh video game creator. It is touted as the first game mod with the theme of Sikhism. Set during the 18th century, the game explores how the nascent Sikh community was suffering under Mughal imperial rule and religious intolerance, and how the Sikhs rebelled against the Mughal empire to secure a future for their faith.\n\nIt is a 3D first person action-adventure game, featuring a variety of characters, custom-designed levels, authentic Indian and Persian architecture, with period weaponry, costumes and armour.\n\nIn 2006, Singh complained that the game was unfairly stereotyped by the BBC as being anti-Muslim, stating that it was meant to educate the youth on the complicated history of Sikh-Muslim tension. This was eventually resolved and production was continued.\n\nDue to the lack of public donations and some issues with funding, Sarbloh Warriors has been halted temporarily.\n\n"}
{"id": "29786770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29786770", "title": "Shadirvan", "text": "Shadirvan\n\nShadirvan (, ) is a type of fountain that is usually built in the yard or entrance in front of mosques, caravanserais, khanqahs and madrasahs, with the main purpose of providing water for drinking or ritual ablutions to several people at the same time, but also as decorative visual or sound element.\n\nShadirvan is Persian in origin, and is a typical element of Ottoman architecture. Examples include Shadirvan square in Prizren, and the Band-e Kaisar Shadervan Bridge in Iran.\n\nThe term sadirvan may alternatively be spelt shadervan; shaderwan; şadervan; šadervan, šadrvan or šedrvan; and Шадраван (shadravan).\n\n"}
{"id": "5243475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5243475", "title": "Shaman (comics)", "text": "Shaman (comics)\n\nShaman (Dr. Michael Twoyoungmen) is a fictional character, superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is usually depicted as a member of Alpha Flight.\n\nShaman was created by John Byrne and first appeared in \"Uncanny X-Men\" in the 120th issue of the comic in April 1979.\n\nMichael Twoyoungmen is from Calgary, Alberta and is a member of Canada's First Nations (specifically the Tsuu T'ina).\n\nHis grandfather, elderly and near death, asks him to become his mystical apprentice. Twoyoungmen, not believing in magic, refuses. At around the same time, his wife Kathryn Twoyoungmen becomes terminally ill. Twoyoungmen desperately seeks a cure but, despite promising his daughter Elizabeth he would find one, Kathryn dies; his grandfather passes away on the very same day.\n\nGrief-stricken, Twoyoungmen secludes himself in a cabin in Banff National Park, leaving Elizabeth to be raised by family friends the McNeils (whose daughter Heather will one day become Alpha Flight leader Vindicator). Twoyoungmen's failure to save Kathryn kindles a deep-seated resentment and anger in Elizabeth. In his cabin, Twoyoungmen receives the skull of his grandfather and experiences a vision of the man. Twoyoungmen studies Sarcee magic, eventually becoming strong enough in his beliefs to draw mystical items from his enchanted medicine bag at will. He adopts the title and garb of a shaman.\n\nSeveral years later, Shaman assists in the birth of Snowbird, the product of a mystical union between a human and the Inuit goddess Nelvanna. Shaman casts spells to bind Snowbird to the Earthly realm. He raises her and she ages rapidly, stabilizing several weeks later at an apparent physical age of someone in their 20s. Seeking superhuman agents to join Alpha Flight, Heather and her husband James Hudson (aka Alpha Flight founder Guardian) visit Shaman and recruit both him and Snowbird.\n\nA few years after Shaman joins Alpha Flight, his daughter Elizabeth discovers a skull at an archeological site and experiences a vision of Ranaq the Devourer, one of the Great Beasts. She summons her father— who she knows is Shaman despite his use of spells to conceal his identity—to examine the skull. The two then meet Lucas Strang and his great-granddaughter Emily. Emily is possessed by Ranaq and attempts to destroy Elizabeth, but instead activates her latent mystical powers, allowing Elizabeth to defeat the possessed woman. Shaman has Elizabeth reach into his medicine bag and withdraw the Coronet of Enchantment, a mystical circlet which she dons to become Talisman, a prophesied person of great mystical power. Shaman does not tell Talisman that the Coronet, once donned, cannot be removed without causing her intense agony. Shortly thereafter, Talisman is trapped in the pocket dimension contained within Shaman's medicine bag despite his promise that he will save her. Although she is later rescued by the Beyonder, this newest failed promise turns her resentment of Shaman into hatred.\n\nShaman's failure to save his daughter leads to a crisis of faith and Shaman is unable to draw mystical items from his medicine bag. Shaman embarks on a vision quest and learns anew the secrets of mysticism from the spirit of his grandfather. Shaman gains the power to beseech nature spirits for aid, although he can not command them as Elizabeth does. He also receives a staff and an eagle helm, which can transform into a familiar spirit.\n\nWhen a pregnant Snowbird is about to give birth to her first child and the birth needs to happen at a place of power, Shaman beseeches the spirits to lead him to such a place. However, Talisman, corrupted by her power and fueled by her rage, compels the spirits to unknowingly lead Shaman and Alpha Flight to a place of evil instead. Snowbird's child is possessed by the spirit of a sailor who has lain under the permafrost for over a century. Calling himself Pestilence, he battles Alpha Flight. Talisman plans to allow Pestilence to defeat Alpha Flight and then step in to defeat him, humiliating her father. However, Talisman is unable to defeat Pestilence as he is only partially of the spirit world, having been preserved in ice, and is thus outside the influence of her powers. As they fight, he tears the Coronet of Enchantment from her brow. Shocked back to her senses, Elizabeth is devastated over what she has done and apologizes to her father. Shaman, believing it is the only way to save Alpha Flight, dons the Coronet and takes on the mantle and powers of Talisman. Shaman, who grew cold and distant as Talisman just as Elizabeth had, eventually relinquishes the Coronet to Elizabeth and takes up his original medicine bag and powers again. He continues to work with Alpha Flight again under the name Shaman.\n\nMuch later, time-displaced versions of Alpha Flight are brought forward in time and remain in the present, assuming the mantle of Alpha Flight while the original Alpha Flight depart Earth to return a clutch of Plodex eggs to the Plodex homeworld.\n\nShaman, along with Major Mapleleaf II, both Pucks, Guardian, and Vindicator, is brutally attacked by the Collective. Their bodies are left in the Yukon Territory as the Collective continues on to the United States. Shaman is later confirmed dead by Sasquatch.\n\nDuring the \"Chaos War\" storyline, Shaman (alongside Guardian, Vindicator, and Marrina Smallwood) is among the heroes who return from the dead after what happened to the death realms due to Amatusu-Mikaboshi's rampage through the Underworld. He ends up with a reunited Alpha Flight as they once again fight the Great Beasts. Shaman remains among the living after the defeat of the Chaos King.\n\nDuring his initial training with the spirit of his grandfather, Shaman underwent intensive physical and mental training and discipline. He gained the understanding of the Sacree medicine men was able to concentrate to the point of not just thinking of objects, but feeling or knowing them in order to draw them out of his medicine pouch. He was also able to run at full speed through the forest without disturbing the wildlife that lived there.\n\nShaman, as a fully trained doctor, also has knowledge of anatomy and intricate surgical and medical procedures. Before his training as a mystic, he was referred to as the best surgeon in Canada. Due to his training, he recognized that his grandfather's skull had had the flesh boiled from it.\n\nShaman is a magic-wielder who carries a medicine bag which contains a pocket dimension known as the Void. He can summon all manner of physical and mystical objects and potions from the bag.\n\nFollowing his vision quest, Shaman gains the power to beseech spirits to fulfill his requests. He cannot force the spirits to obey. In this incarnation, Shaman carries a \"spirit staff,\" which glows when he summons the spirits. He wears an \"eagle helm,\" which can transform into an eagle which serves as his familiar spirit.\n\nShaman can levitate by manipulating ambient mystical energy, but cannot fly.\n\nWhen Shaman takes on the role of Talisman, he acquires the power to command natural spirits to do his will. He can manipulate vast mystical energy for a wide variety of effects. He has since relinquished these powers.\n\nUltimate Shaman appears at a friendly baseball game with other Alpha Flight members in \"Ultimate X-Men\" #94. This version of Shaman is a mutant who possesses enhanced strength, speed, agility, and senses which have been enhanced through the drug Banshee instead of the magical abilities of his Marvel Universe counterpart. This version of Shaman is an alternate version of John Proudstar instead of Michael Twoyoungmen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53469868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53469868", "title": "Shrine Consolidation Policy", "text": "Shrine Consolidation Policy\n\nThe Shrine Consolidation Policy (Jinja seirei, also Jinja gōshi, Jinja gappei) was an effort by the Government of Meiji Japan to abolish numerous smaller Shinto shrines and consolidate their functions with larger regional shrines. In 1900, the Shrine Bureau (\"Jinja kyoku\") was created as a branch of the Home Ministry, and it was this organ that was responsible for the implementation of the policy.\n\nThe aim of the policy was to reduce the political influence of Shinto, bringing the remaining shrines under government jurisdiction and making them easier to control. Within the first twenty years of the policy, 77,899 Shinto shrines were closed, despite considerable local opposition. The policy remained in effect until the end of World War II, although its greatest impact occurred in the first six years after its implementation in 1906; by 1912, the rate at which shrines were closed had fallen considerably.\n"}
{"id": "106372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106372", "title": "Temple of Kom Ombo", "text": "Temple of Kom Ombo\n\nThe Temple of Kom Ombo is an unusual double temple in the town of Kom Ombo in Aswan Governorate, Upper Egypt. It was constructed during the Ptolemaic dynasty, 180–47 BC. Some additions to it were later made during the Roman period. The building is unique because its 'double' design meant that there were courts, halls, sanctuaries and rooms duplicated for two sets of gods. The southern half of the temple was dedicated to the crocodile god Sobek, god of fertility and creator of the world with Hathor and Khonsu. Meanwhile, the northern part of the temple was dedicated to the falcon god Haroeris (\"Horus the Elder\"), along \"with Tasenetnofret (the Good Sister, a special form of Hathor or Tefnet/Tefnut) and Panebtawy (Lord of the Two Lands).\" The temple is atypical because everything is perfectly symmetrical along the main axis.\n\nThe texts and reliefs in the temple refer to cultic liturgies which were similar to those from that time period. The temple itself had a specific theology. The characters invoked the gods of Kom Ombo and their legend. Two themes were present in this temple: the universalist theme and the local theme. The two combine to form the theology of this temple. A temple was already built in the New Kingdom to honor these gods, however, this site gained in importance during the Ptolemaic Kingdom. Little remains of the New Kingdom temple. The existing temple was begun by Ptolemy VI Philometor (180–145 BC) at the beginning of his reign and added to by other Ptolemies, most notably Ptolemy XIII Theos Philopator (51–47 BC), who built the inner and outer hypostyles. The scene on the inner face of the rear wall of the temple is of particular interest, and \"probably represents a set of surgical instruments.\" \n\nMuch of the temple has been destroyed by the Nile, earthquakes, and later builders who used its stones for other projects. Some of the reliefs inside were defaced by Copts who once used the temple as a church. All the temples buildings in the southern part of the plateau were cleared of debris and restored by Jacques de Morgan in 1893.\n\nA few of the three hundred crocodile mummies discovered in the vicinity are displayed in The Crocodile Museum.\n\nIn September 2018, the Egyptian antiquities ministry announced that a sandstone sphinx statue had been discovered at the temple. The statue, measuring approximately 28 cm in width and 38cm in height, likely dates to the Ptolemaic Dynasty.\n\n"}
{"id": "3823672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3823672", "title": "The Right Reverend", "text": "The Right Reverend\n\nThe Right Reverend (abbreviations: The Rt Revd; The Rt Rev'd; The Rt Rev.) is a style applied to certain religious figures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51429008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51429008", "title": "Theosophy (Blavatskian)", "text": "Theosophy (Blavatskian)\n\nTheosophy is an esoteric religious movement established in the United States during the late nineteenth century. It was founded largely by the Russian émigrée Helena Blavatsky and draws its beliefs predominantly from Blavatsky's writings. Categorised by scholars of religion as part of the occultist current of Western esotericism, it draws upon both older European philosophies like Neoplatonism and Asian religions like Hinduism and Buddhism.\n\nAs taught by Blavatsky, Theosophy holds that there is an ancient and secretive brotherhood of spiritual adepts known as Ascended Masters, who—although found across the world—are centered in Tibet. These Masters are believed to have cultivated great wisdom and supernatural powers, and Theosophists believe that it was they who initiated the modern Theosophical movement through disseminating their teachings via Blavatsky. They believe that these Masters are attempting to revive knowledge of an ancient religion once found across the world and which will again come to eclipse the existing world religions. Theosophical groups nevertheless do not refer to their system as a \"religion\". Theosophy preaches the existence of a single, divine Absolute. It promotes an emanationist cosmology in which the universe is perceived as outward reflections from this Absolute. Theosophy teaches that the purpose of human life is spiritual emancipation and claims that the human soul undergoes reincarnation upon bodily death according to a process of karma. It promotes values of universal brotherhood and social improvement, although it does not stipulate particular ethical codes.\n\nTheosophy was established in New York City in 1875 with the founding of the Theosophical Society by Blavatsky, Henry Olcott, and William Quan Judge. Blavatsky and Olcott relocated to India, where they established the Society's headquarters at Adyar, Tamil Nadu. Blavatsky described her ideas in two books, \"Isis Unveiled\" and \"The Secret Doctrine\". Blavatsky was repeatedly accused of fraudulently producing purportedly supernatural phenomena, often in connection with these \"masters.\". Following Blavatsky's death in 1891, there was a schism in the Society, with Judge leading the Theosophical Society in America to secede. Under Judge's successor Katherine Tingley, a Theosophical community named Lomaland was established in San Diego. The Adyar-based Society was later taken over by Annie Besant, under whom it grew to its largest extent during the late 1920s, before going into decline. \n\nTheosophy played a significant role in bringing knowledge of South Asian religions to Western countries, as well as in encouraging cultural pride in various South Asian nations. A variety of prominent artists and writers have also been influenced by Theosophical teachings. Theosophy has an international following, and during the twentieth century had tens of thousands of adherents. \nTheosophical ideas have also exerted an influence on a wide range of other esoteric movements and philosophies, among them Anthroposophy, the Church Universal and Triumphant, and the New Age.\n\nTheosophy's founder, the Russian Helena Blavatsky, insisted that it was not a religion, although did refer to it as the modern transmission of the \"once universal religion\" that she claimed had existed deep into the human past. That Theosophy should not be labelled a religion is a claim that has been maintained by Theosophical organisations, who instead regard it as a system that embraces what they see as the \"essential truth\" underlying religion, philosophy, and science. As a result, Theosophical groups allow their members to hold other religious allegiances, resulting in Theosophists who also identify as Christians, Buddhists, or Hindus.\n\nSome scholars of religion who have studied Theosophy have characterised it as a religion. In his history of the Theosophical movement, Bruce F. Campbell noted that Theosophy promoted \"a religious world-view\" using \"explicitly religious terms\" and that its central tenets are not unequivocal fact, but rather rely on belief. Olav Hammer and Mikael Rothstein termed it \"one of the modern world's most important religious traditions\". Various scholars have pointed to its eclectic nature; Joscelyn Godwin described it as a \"universally eclectic religious movement\", while scholar J. Jeffrey Franklin characterised Theosophy as a \"hybrid religion\" for its syncretic combination of elements from various other sources.\n\nScholars have also classified Theosophy as a form of Western esotericism. Campbell for instance referred to it as \"an esoteric religious tradition\", while the historian Joy Dixon called it an \"esoteric religion\". More specifically, it is considered a form of occultism. Along with other groups like the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, the Theosophical Society has been seen as part of an \"occult revival\" that took place in Western countries during the late nineteenth century. The historian of religion Wouter Hanegraaff noted that Theosophy helped to establish the \"essential foundations for much of twentieth-century esotericism\".\nAlthough Theosophy draws upon Indian religious beliefs, the sociologist of religion Christopher Partridge observed that \"Theosophy is fundamentally Western. That is to say, Theosophy is not Eastern thought in the West, but Western thought with an Eastern flavour.\"\n\nAt a meeting of the Miracle Club in New York City on 7 September 1875, Blavatsky, Olcott, and Judge agreed to establish an organisation, with Charles Sotheran suggesting that they call it the Theosophical Society. Prior to adopting the name \"Theosophical\", they had debated various potential names, among them the Egyptological Society, the Hermetic Society, and the Rosicrucian Society. The term was not new, but had been previously used in various contexts by the Philaletheians and the Christian mystic Jakob Böhme.\nEtymologically, the term came from the Greek \"theos\" (\"god(s)\") and \"sophia\" (\"wisdom\"), thus meaning \"god-wisdom\", \"divine wisdom\", or \"wisdom of God\". The term \"theosophia\" appeared (in both Greek and Latin) in the works of early church fathers, as a synonym for theology. In her book \"The Key to Theosophy\", Blavatsky claimed that the term \"Theosophy\" had been coined by \"the Alexandrian philosophers\", especially Ammonius Saccas.\n\nThat Blavatsky's Theosophy is not the only movement to use the term \"theosophy\" has resulted in scholarly attempts to differentiate the different currents.\nGodwin drew a division by referring to Blavatskian Theosophy with a capital letter and older, Boehmian theosophy with a lower-case letter. Alternately, the scholar of esotericism Wouter J. Hanegraaff distinguished the Blavatskian movement from its older namesake by terming it \"modern Theosophy\".\nFollowers of Blavatsky's movement are known as Theosophists, while adherents of the older tradition are termed theosophers. Causing some confusion, a few Theosophists — such as C. C. Massey — were also theosophers.\nIn the early years of Blavatsky's movement, some critics referred to it as \"Neo-Theosophy\" to differentiate it from the older Christian theosophy movement. The term \"Neo-Theosophy\" would later be adopted within the modern Theosophical movement itself, where it was used—largely pejoratively—to describe the teachings promoted by Annie Besant and Charles Webster Leadbeater by those who opposed their innovations.\n\nAccording to the scholar of religion James A. Santucci, discerning what the term \"Theosophy\" meant to the early Theosophists is \"not as obvious as one might think\". As used by Olcott, the term \"Theosophy\" appeared to be applied to an approach that emphasised experimentation as a means of learning about the \"Unseen Universe\"; conversely, Blavatsky used the term in reference to gnosis regarding said information.\n\nAlthough the writings of prominent Theosophists lay out a set of teachings, the Theosophical Society itself states that it has no official beliefs with which all members must agree. It therefore has doctrine but does not present this as dogma. The Society stated that the only tenet to which all members should subscribe was a commitment \"to form a nucleus of the Universal Brotherhood of Humanity without distinction of race, creed, sex, caste or color\". This means that there were members of the Theosophical Society who were sceptical about many, or even all, of the Theosophical doctrines, while remaining sympathetic to its basic aim of universal brotherhood.\n\nAs noted by Santucci, Theosophy is \"derived primarily from the writings\" of Blavatsky, however revisions and innovations have also been produced by subsequent Theosophists like Annie Besant and Charles Leadbeater. Blavatsky claimed that these Theosophical doctrines were not her own invention, but had been received from a brotherhood of secretive spiritual adepts whom she referred to as the \"Masters\" or \"Mahatmas\".\n\nCentral to Theosophical belief is the idea that a group of spiritual adepts known as the Masters not only exist but were responsible for the production of early Theosophical texts. For most Theosophists, these Masters are deemed to be the real founders of the modern Theosophical movement. In Theosophical literature, these Masters are also referred to as the Mahatmas, Adepts, Masters of Wisdom, Masters of Compassion, and Elder Brothers. They are perceived to be a fraternity of human men who are highly evolved, both in terms of having an advanced moral development and intellectual attainment. They are claimed to have achieved extra-long life spans, and to have gained supernatural powers, including clairvoyance and the ability to instantly project their soul out of their body to any other location. These are powers that they have allegedly attained through many years of training. According to Blavatsky, by the late 19th century their chief residence was in the Himalayan kingdom of Tibet. She also claimed that these Masters were the source of many of her published writings.\n\nThe Masters are believed to preserve the world's ancient spiritual knowledge, and to represent a Great White Brotherhood or White Lodge which watches over humanity and guides its evolution.\nAmong those whom the early Theosophists claimed as Masters were Biblical figures like Abraham, Moses, Solomon, and Jesus, Asian religious figures like Gautama Buddha, Confucius, and Laozi, and modern individuals like Jakob Bohme, Alessandro Cagliostro, and Franz Mesmer. However, the most prominent Masters to appear in Theosophical literature are Koot Hoomi (sometimes spelled Kuthumi) and Morya, with whom Blavatsky claimed to be in contact. According to Theosophical belief, the Masters approach those deemed worthy to embark on an apprenticeship or \"chelaship\". The apprentice would then undergo several years of probation, during which they must live a life of physical purity, remaining chaste, abstinent, and indifferent to physical luxury. Blavatsky encouraged the production of images of the Masters. The most important portraits of the Masters to be produced were created in 1884 by Hermann Schmiechen. According to scholar of religion Massimo Introvigne, Schmiechen's images of Morya and Koot Humi gained \"semi-canonical status\" in the Theosophical community, being regarded as sacred objects rather than simply decorative images.\n\nCampbell noted that for non-Theosophists, the claims regarding the existence of the Masters are among the weakest made by the movement. Such claims are open to examination and potential refutation, with challenges to the existence of the Masters therefore undermining Theosophical beliefs.\nThe idea of a brotherhood of secret adepts had a long pedigree stretching back several centuries before the foundation of Theosophy; such ideas can be found in the work of the Rosicrucians, and was popularised in the fictional literature of Edward Bulwer-Lytton. The idea of having messages conveyed to a medium through by spiritually advanced entities had also been popularised at the time of Theosophy's foundation through the Spiritualist movement.\n\nAccording to Blavatsky's teachings, many of the world's religions have their origins in a universal ancient religion, a \"secret doctrine\" that was known to Plato and early Hindu sages and which continues to underpin the centre of every religion.\nShe promoted the idea that ancient societies exhibited a unity of science and religion that humanity has since lost, with their achievements and knowledge being far in excess of what modern scholars believe about them. Blavatsky also taught that a secret brotherhood has conserved this ancient wisdom religion throughout the centuries, and that members of this fraternity hold the key to understanding miracles, the afterlife, and psychic phenomena, and that moreover these adepts themselves have paranormal powers.\n\nShe stated that this ancient religion would be revived and spread throughout humanity in the future, replacing dominant world religions like Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, and Hinduism.\nTheosophy tended to emphasise the importance of ancient texts over the popular ritual and custom found within various religious traditions.\nThe Theosophical depiction of Buddhism and Hinduism however drew criticism both from practitioners of orthodox Buddhist and Hindu traditions, as well as from Western scholars of these traditions, such as Max Müller, who believed that Theosophists like Blavatsky were misrepresenting the Asian traditions.\n\nTheosophy promotes an emanationist cosmology, promoting the belief that the universe is an outward reflection from the Absolute.\nTheosophy presents the idea that the world as humans perceive it is illusory, or \"maya\", an idea that it draws from Asian religions. Accordingly, Blavatsky taught that a life limited by the perception of this illusory world was ignorant and deluded.\n\nAccording to Blavatsky's teaching, every solar system in the universe is the expression of what is termed a \"Logos\" or \"Solar Deity\". Ranked below this Solar Deity are seven ministers or planetary spirits, with each of these celestial beings being in control of evolution on a particular planet.\nIn \"The Secret Doctrine\", Blavatsky stated that each planet had a sevenfold constitution, known as the \"Planetary Chains\"; these consist not only of a physical globe but also of two astral bodies, two mental bodies, and two spiritual bodies, all overlapping in the same space. According to Blavatsky, evolution occurs on descending and ascending arcs, from the first spiritual globe on to the first mental globe, then from the first astral globe to the first physical globe, and then on from there.\nShe claimed that there were different levels of evolution, from mineral on to vegetable, animal, human, and then to superhuman or spiritual. Different levels of evolution occur in a successive order on each planet; thus when mineral evolution ends on the first planet and it proceeds on to vegetable evolution, then mineral evolution begins on the second planet.\n\nTheosophy teaches that human evolution is tied in with this planetary and wider cosmic evolution.\nIn \"The Secret Doctrine\", Blavatsky advocated the idea of seven \"Root Races\", each of which was divided into seven Sub-Races.\nIn Blavatsky's cosmogony, the first Root Race were created from pure spirit, and lived on a continent known as the \"Imperishable Sacred Land\". The second Root Race, known as the Hyperboreans, were also formed from pure spirit, and lived on a land near to the North Pole, which then had a mild climate. The third lived on the continent of Lemuria, which Blavatsky alleged survives today as Australia and Rapa Nui. Blavatsky alleged that during the fourth Round of the Earth, higher beings descended to the planet, with the beginnings of human physical bodies developing, and the sexes separating. At this point, the fourth Root Race appeared, living on the continent of Atlantis; they had physical bodies but also psychic powers and advanced technology. She claimed that some Atlanteans were giants, and built such ancient monuments as Stonehenge in southern England, and that they also mated with \"she-animals\", resulting in the creation of gorillas and chimpanzees. The Atlanteans were decadent and abused their power and knowledge, so Atlantis sunk into the sea, although various Atlanteans escaped, and created new societies in Egypt and the Americas.\n\nThe fifth Root Race to emerge was the Aryans, and was found across the world at the time she was writing. She believed that the fifth Race would come to be replaced by the sixth, which would be heralded by the arrival of Maitreya, a figure from Mahayana Buddhist mythology. She further believed that humanity would eventually develop into the final, seventh Root Race. At this, she stated that humanity will have reached the end of its evolutionary cycle and life will withdraw from the Earth.\nLachman suggested that by reading Blavatsky's cosmogonical claims as a literal account of history, \"we may be doing it a disservice.\" He instead suggested that it could be read as Blavatsky's attempt to formulate \"a new myth for the modern age, or as a huge, fantastic science fiction story\".\n\nBlavatsky taught that Lord Maitreya—a figure she borrowed from Buddhist mythology—would come to Earth as a messianic figure. Her ideas on this were expanded upon by Besant and Leadbeater. They claimed that Maitreya had previously incarnated onto the Earth as Krishna, a figure from Hindu mythology. They also claimed that he had entered Jesus of Nazareth at the time of the latter's baptism, and that henceforth Maitreya would be known as \"the Christ\". Besant and Leadbeater claimed that Maitreya would again come to Earth by manifesting through an Indian boy named Jiddu Krishnamurti, whom Leadbeater had encountered playing on a beach at Adyar in 1909. The introduction of the Krishmanurti belief into Theosophy has been identified as a millenarian element.\n\nAccording to Theosophy, the purpose of human life is the spiritual emancipation of the soul. The human individual is described as an \"Ego\" or \"Monad\" and believed to have emanated from the Solar Deity, to whom it will also eventually return. The human being is presented as composing of seven parts, while operating on three separate planes of being. As presented by Sinnett and often repeated in Theosophical literature, these seven parts are the Body (\"Rupa\"), Vitality (\"Prana-Jiva\"), the Astral Body (\"Linga Sarira\"), the Animal Soul (\"Kama-Rupa\"), the Human Soul (\"Manas\"), the Spiritual Soul (\"Buddhi\"), and the Spirit (\"Atma\"). According to Theosophical teaching, it is the latter three of these components that are immortal, while the other aspects perish following bodily death. Theosophy teaches that the Spiritual Soul and the Spirit do not reside within the human body alongside the other components, but that they are connected to it through the Human Soul.\n\nIn \"The Voice of the Silence\", Blavatsky taught that within each individual human there is an eternal, divine facet, which she referred to as \"the Master\", the \"uncreate\", the \"inner God\", and the \"higher self\". She promoted the idea that uniting with this \"higher self\" results in wisdom. In that same book, she compared the progress of the human soul to a transition through three halls; the first was that of ignorance, which is the state of the soul before it understands the need to unite with its higher self. The second is the Hall of Learning, in which the individual becomes aware of other facets of human life but is distracted by an interest in psychic powers. The third is the Hall of Wisdom, in which union with the higher self is made; this is then followed by the Vale of Bliss. At this point the human soul can merge into the One.\n\nThroughout her writings, Blavatsky made a variety of statements about rebirth and the afterlife, and there is a discrepancy between her earlier and later teachings on the subject. Between the 1870s and circa 1882, Blavatsky taught a doctrine called \"metempsychosis\".\nIn \"Isis Unveiled\", Blavatsky stated that on bodily death, the human soul progresses through more spiritual planes. Two years later, she introduced the idea of reincarnation into Theosophical doctrine, using it to replace her metempsychosis doctrine. In \"The Secret Doctrine\", she stated that the spirit was immortal and would repeatedly incarnate into a new, mortal soul and body on Earth.\nAccording to Theosophical teaching, human spirits will always be reborn into human bodies, and not into those of any other life forms. Blavatsky stated that spirits would not be reborn until some time after bodily death, and never during the lifetime of the deceased's relatives.\n\nBlavatsky taught that on the death of the body, the astral body survives for a time in a state called kama-loka, which she compared to limbo, before also dying. According to this belief, the human then moves into its mental body in a realm called devachan, which she compared to Heaven or paradise. Blavatsky taught that the soul remained in devachan for 1000 to 1500 years, although the Theosophist Charles Webster Leadbeater claimed that it was only 200. \n\nTheosophy espouses the existence of karma as a system which regulates the cycle of reincarnation, ensuring that an individual's actions in one life affect the circumstances of their next one. This belief therefore seeks to explain why misery and suffering exist in the world, attributing any misfortune that someone suffers as punishment for misdeeds that they perpetrated in a prior life. In Blavatsky's words, karma and reincarnation were \"inextricably interwoven\". However, she did not believe that karma had always been the system that governed reincarnation; she believed that it came into being when humans developed egos, and that one day will also no longer be required.\n\nBesant and Leadbeater claimed to be able to investigate people's past lives through reading the akashic record, an etheric store of all the knowledge of the universe. They for instance claimed to have attained knowledge of their own past lives as monkey-like creatures residing on the moon, where they served as pets to the \"Moon-man\" (a prior incarnation of the Master Morya), his wife (Koot Humi), and their child (the Lord Maitreya). When they were attacked by \"savages\" and animals \"resembling furry lizards and crocodiles\", Besant sacrificed herself to save Morya, and for that act made the karmic evolutionary leap to becoming a human in her next incarnation.\n\nTheosophy does not express any formal ethical teaching, a situation that generated ambiguity. However, it has expressed and promoted certain values, such as brotherhood and social improvement.\nDuring its early years, the Theosophical Society promoted a puritanical attitude toward sexuality, for instance by encouraging chastity even within marriage.\n\nBy 1911, the Theosophical Society was involved in projects connected to a range of progressive political causes. In England, there were strong links between Theosophy and first-wave feminism. Based on a statistical analysis, Dixon noted that prominent English feminists of the period were several hundred times more likely to join the Theosophical Society than were the average member of the country's population. Theosophical contingents took part in feminist marches of the period; for instance, a Theosophical group operating under the banner of Universal Co-Freemasonry marched as part of the Women's Coronation Procession in 1911.\n\nThe Theosophical Society did not prescribe any specific rituals for adherents to practice. However, ritualised practices have been established by various Theosophical groups; one such group is the Liberal Catholic Church. Another are the meetings of the United Lodge of Theosophy, which have been characterised as having a \"quasi-sacred and quasi-liturgical\" character. \n\nThe Theosophical Society was largely the creation of two individuals: Helena Blavatsky and Henry Steel Olcott.\nEstablished Christianity in the United States was experiencing challenges in the second half of the nineteenth century, a result of rapid urbanization and industrialization, high rates of immigration, and the growing understanding of evolutionary theory which challenged traditional Christian accounts of history. Various new religious communities were established in different parts of the country, among them the Free Religious Association, New Thought, Christian Science, and Spiritualism. Theosophy would inherit the idea — then popular in the United States — that emphasized the idea of free will and the inevitability of progress, including on a spiritual level. It was also influenced by a growing knowledge about Asian religions in the United States.\n\nPrior to her arrival in the United States, Blavatsky had experience with esoteric currents like Spiritualism.\nIt was through Spiritualism that Blavatsky and Olcott met.\n\nIn 1884, Olcott established the first Scottish lodge, in Edinburgh.\n\nIn 1980, Campbell noted that Theosophical books were selling at record levels.\n\nIn the United States, Judge had been devoting himself to the promotion of Theosophy with little success.\n\nDuring her lifetime, Blavatsky had suggested to many different persons that they would be her successor. Three of the most prominent candidates — Olcott, Judge, and Besant — all met in London shortly after to discuss the situation. Judge claimed that he too was in contact with the Masters, and that they had provided him with a message instructing him to co-delegate the Society's Esoteric Section with Besant. Olcott however suspected that the notes from the Masters which Judge was producing were forged, exacerbating tensions between them. Besant attempted to act as a bridge between the two men, while Judge informed her that the Masters had revealed to him a plot that Olcott was orchestrating to kill her. In 1893, Besant came down on Olcott's side in the argument and backed the internal proceedings that Olcott raised against Judge. A two-stage enquiry took place, which concluded that because the Society took no official stance on whether the Masters existed or not, Judge could not be considered guilty of forgery and would be allowed to retain his position. The details of this trial were leaked to the journalist F. Edmund Garrett, who used them as the basis of his critical book, \"Isis Very Much Unveiled\". Judge then announced that the Masters had informed him that he should take sole control of the Esoteric Section, deposing Besant; she rejected his claims. Amid calls from Olcott that Judge should stand down, in April 1895 the American section voted to secede from the main Society. Judge remained its leader, but died within a year.\n\nOlcott then sent Besant to the United States to gain support for the Adyar-based Society. In this she was successful, gaining thousands of new members and establishing many new branches.\nBesant had developed a friendship with the Theosophist Charles Webster Leadbeater, and together they co-wrote a number of books. Leadbeater was controversial, and concerns were raised when he was found to have instructed two boys in masturbation. The American Section of the Theosophical Society raised internal charges against him, although Besant came to his defence. In a move probably designed to limit negative publicity for the Society, they accepted his resignation rather than expelling him.\n\nOn Olcott's death in 1907, he had nominated Besant to be his successor, and she was then elected to the position with a large majority in June. In her first years as the head of the Society, Besant oversaw a dramatic growth in its membership, raising it by 50%, to 23,000. She also oversaw an expansion of the Adyar property, from 27 to 253 acres. Besant was involved in various activist causes, promoting women's rights in India through the Women's Indian Association and helping to establish both the Central Hindu College and a Hindu girls' school. Besant also began a campaign for Indian Home Rule, founding a group called the Home Rule League. She established the \"New India\" newspaper, and after continuing to promote Indian independence in the paper's pages during the First World War she was interned for several months. This helped to boost her status within the independence movement, and at the age of 70 she was appointed President of the Indian National Congress, a largely honorary position.\n\nIn December 1908, Leadbeater was readmitted to the Society; this generated a wave of resignations, with the Sydney branch seceding to form the Independent Theosophical Society. Leadbeater travelled to Adyar, where he met a young boy living there, Jiddu Krishnamurti, and pronounced him to be the next incarnation of a figure called the World Teacher. He subsequently took control of the boy's instruction for two years. With Besant, Leadbeater established a group known as the Order of the Star in the East to promote the idea of Krishnamurti as World Teacher. \nLeadbeater also wanted more ritual within Theosophy, and to achieve this he and J. I. Wedgwood became bishops in the Old Catholic Church. They then split from that to form their own Liberal Catholic Church, which was independent from the Theosophical Society (Adyar) while retaining an affiliation with it. The Church drew most of its membership from the Society and heavily relied upon its resources. However, in 1919 the Church was marred by police investigations into allegations that six of its priests had engaged in acts of paedophilia and Wedgewood — who was implicated in the allegations — resigned from the organisation.\n\nIn retaliation, a \"Back to Blavatsky\" movement emerged within the Society. Its members pejoratively referred to Besant and her followers as practitioners of \"Neo-Theosophy\", objecting to the Liberal Catholic Church's allegiance to the Pope, and to the prominence that they were according to Besant and Leadbeater's publications. The main benefactor of the disquiet within the Back to Blavatsky movement was a rival group called the United Lodge of Theosophists. One of the most prominent figures to switch allegiance was B. P. Wadia.\nThe United Lodge of Theosophists had been established in Los Angeles in 1909, when it had split from Judge's Theosophical Society in America, seeking to minimise formal organisation. It focused on publishing new editions of Blavatsky and Judge's writings, as well as other books, which were usually released anonymously so as to prevent any personality cults developing within the Theosophical movement.\n\nThe Adyar Society membership later peaked at 40,000 in the late 1920s.\nThe Order of the Star had 30,000 members at its height.\nKrishnamurti himself repudiated these claims, insisting that he was not the World Teacher, and then resigned from the Society; the effect on the society was dramatic, as it lost a third of its membership over the coming few years. Besant died in 1933, when the Society was taken over by George Arundale, who led it until 1945; the group's activities were greatly curtailed by World War II.\n\nJudge left no clear successor as leader of the Theosophical Society in America, but the position was taken by Katherine Tingley, who claimed that she remained in mediumistic contact with Judge's spirit. Kingley launched an international campaign to promote her Theosophical group, sending delegations to Europe, Egypt, and India. In the latter country they clashed with the Adyar-based Theosophical Society, and were unsuccessful in gaining converts. Her leadership would be challenged by Ernest T. Hargrove in 1898, and when he failed he split to form his own rival group. In 1897, Tingley had established a Theosophical community, Lomaland, at Point Loma in San Diego, California. Various Theosophical writers and artists congregated there, while horticultural development was also emphasised.\nIn 1919, the community helped establish a Theosophical University.\nLongstanding financial problems coupled with an ageing population resulted in the Society selling Lomaland in 1942. Meanwhile, Tingley's death in 1929 had resulted in the Theosophical Society in America being taken over by Gottfried de Purucker, who promoted rapprochement with other Theosophical groups in what came to be known as the Fraternisation movement.\n\nDuring its first century, Theosophy established itself as an international movement.\nCampbell believed that from its foundation until 1980, Theosophy had gained tens of thousands of adherents. He noted that in that latter year, there were circa 35,000 members of the Adyar-based Theosophical Society (9000 of whom were in India), c.5,500 members of the Theosophical Society in America, c.1500 members of the Theosophical Society International (Pasadena), and about 1200 members of the United Lodge of Theosophy. Membership of the Theosophical Society reached its highest peak in 1928, when it had 45,000 members.\n\nTheosophical groups consist largely of individuals as opposed to family groups. Campbell noted that these members were alienated in ways from conventional social roles and practices.\n\nAs noted by Dixon, in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the Theosophical Society \"appealed above all to an elite, educated, middle- and upper-middle-class constituency\". It was, in her words, \"a religion for the 'thinking classes'.\" Campbell stated that Theosophy attracted \"unconventional, liberal-minded Westerners\", and according to Dixon they were among those \"who constituted themselves as the humanitarian conscience of the middle classes, a dissident minority who worked in a variety of parallel organizations to critique the dominant bourgeois values and culture.\"\n\nCampbell also noted that Theosophy appealed to educated Asians, and particularly Indians, because it identified Asia as being central to a universal ancient religion and allowed Asians to retain traditional religious beliefs and practices within a modern framework.\n\nHammer and Rothstein believed that the formation and early history of the Theosophical Society was one of the \"pivotal chapters of religious history in the West.\" The Theosophical Society had significant effects on religion, politics, culture, and society.\nIn the Western world, it was a major force for the introduction of Asian religious ideas. \nIn 1980, Campbell described it as \"probably the most important non-traditional or occult group in the last century\", while in 2012 Santucci noted that it had had \"a profound impact on the contemporary religious landscape\".\n\nIn approaching Asian religion with respect and treating its religious beliefs seriously, Blavatsky and Olcott influenced South Asian society. In India, it played an important role in the Indian independence movement and in the Buddhist revival. The Indian independence leader Mahatma Gandhi developed much of his interest in Hindu culture after being given a copy of the \"Bhagavad Gita\" by two Theosophists. Alongside her support for Indian home rule, Besant had also supported home rule for Scotland, Wales, and Ireland. Campbell suggested that Theosophy could be seen as a \"grandfather\" movement to this 20th century growth in Asian spirituality.\nGiven the spread of such ideas in the West, some critics have perceived Theosophy's role as being largely obsolete.\n\nMany important figures, in particular within the humanities and the arts, were involved in the Theosophical movement and influenced by its teachings. Prominent scientists who had belonged to the Theosophical Society included the inventor Thomas Edison, the biologist Alfred Russel Wallace, and the chemist William Crookes.\n\nTheosophy also exerted an influence on the arts.\nTheosophy was also an influence over a number of early pioneers of abstract art. The Russian abstract expressionist Wassily Kandinsky was very interested in Theosophy and Theosophical ideas about colour. The Dutch abstract artist Piet Mondrian was also influenced by Theosophical symbolism. \n\nTheosophical ideas were also an influence on the Irish literary movement of the late 19th and early 20th century, with writers like Charles Johnston, George Russell, John Eglinton, Charles Weeks, and William Butler Yeats having an interest in the movement.\nThe American adventure fiction writer Talbot Mundy included Theosophical themes in many of his works. He had abandoned his previous allegiance to Christian Science to join the Theosophical faction led by Tingley, joining the Society in 1923 and settling at the Point Loma community.\n\nThe founders of many later new religious movements had been involved in Theosophy.\nMany esoteric groups — such as Alice Bailey's Arcane School and Rudolf Steiner's Anthroposophy — are \"directly dependent\" on Theosophy. \nAlthough he had split from Theosophy when renouncing Leadbeater's claim that he was the World Teacher, Krishnamurti continued to exhibit Theosophical influences in his later teachings. In 1923 a former Theosophist, the Anglo-American Alice Bailey, established the Arcane School, which also rested on claims regarding contact with the Ascended Masters. \n\nAnother former Theosophist, the Austrian Rudolf Steiner, split from the Theosophical Society over the claims about Krishnamurti and then established his own Anthroposophical Society in 1913, which promoted Anthroposophy, a philosophy influenced by Theosophical ideas. Despite his departure from the Theosophists, Rudolf Steiner nevertheless maintained a keen interest in Theosophy for the rest of his life. \n\nAs Theosophy entered the Völkisch movement of late 19th century Austria and Germany, it syncretised to form an eclectic occult movement known as Ariosophy. The most prominent Ariosophist, the Austrian Guido von List, was influenced by Theosophical ideas in creating his own occult system.\n\nIn the United States during the 1930s, the I AM group was established by Guy Ballard and Edna Ballard; the group adopted the idea of the Ascended Masters from Theosophy.\nThe idea of the Masters—and a belief in Morya and Kuthumi—have also been adopted into the belief system of the Church Universal and Triumphant. The Canadian mystic Manly P. Hall also cited Blavatsky's writings as a key influence on his ideas. Theosophical ideas, including on the evolution of the Earth, influenced the teachings of British conspiracist David Icke.\n\nHammer and Rothstein stated that Theosophy came to heavily influence \"popular religiosity\" and by the late twentieth and twenty-first centuries was \"permeating just about every nook and cranny of contemporary \"folk\" religious culture\" in Western countries. It was a major influence on the New Age milieu of the latter twentieth century. It played an important role in promoting belief in reincarnation among Westerners.\n\nA considerable amount of literature has been produced on the subject of Theosophy and the Theosophical Society. Most early publications on Theosophy fell into two camps: either apologetic and highly defensive, or highly antagonistic and aggressive towards the movement. As of 2001, the scholar of religion Olav Hammer could still note that books presenting the Theosophical doctrines were mostly apologetic in nature. Examples of such works include William Q. Judge's 1893 book \"Ocean of Theosophy\" and Robert Ellwood's 1986 book \"Theosophy\". He noted that most of these works treated Theosophical doctrine as if it were a fixed entity and provided little or no discussion of how they have changed over the decades. Many articles on the historical development of the movement have also appeared in the journal \"Theosophical History\".\n\nMany early scholars of religion dismissed Theosophy as being not worthy of study; Mircea Eliade for instance described Theosophy as a \"detestable 'spiritual' hybridism\". The academic study of the Theosophical current developed at the intersection of two scholarly sub-fields: the study of new religious movements, which emerged in the 1970s, and the study of Western esotericism.\nA significant proportion of the scholarship on Theosophy constitutes biographies of its leading members and discussions of events in the Society's history. In contrast to the significant amount of research focused on the first two generations of Theosophists, little has been produced on later figures. Hammer also lamented that while scholarship on Theosophy was developing, it had not focused on the reformulation of Theosophy by Leadbeater and Besant or with the developing ideas of post-Theosophical writers like Steiner or Bailey. Hammer and Rothstein suggested that the \"dearth of scholarly literature\" on Theosophy was because \"powerful individuals and institutions\" in Europe and North America regarded the religion as \"ludicrous\", thus discouraging scholars from devoting their time to researching it.\n\n"}
{"id": "57928187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57928187", "title": "Tomb of Yu Hong", "text": "Tomb of Yu Hong\n\nThe Tomb of Yu Hong () is the grave of Yu Hong and his wife, dating back to 592 AD (Sui dynasty). The tomb was discovered by some locals in 1999 in Wangguo village in Jinyuan district of the city of Taiyuan, it was subsequently excavated officially in July of the same year. This tomb is so far the only archaeological find in the Central Plains region that reflects Central Asian (Western Regions) culture.\n\nThe man buried in the tomb went by Yu Hong (; 533–592 AD), with Mopan () as his courtesy name, who was a Central Asian, probably of Persian or Sogdian origin, and practiced Zoroastrianism. He had settled in Early Middle Period China during the Northern Qi, Northern Zhou and Sui dynasties. The epitaph found in the tomb records that he was a noble of the city of () in the mysterious Yu country (), assumably for which he is named, because the two characters and are homophones.\n\nAccording to the epitaph, Yu Hong started his career in service of the nomadic tribe at the time, known as Ruru. At the age of 13, he was posted as an emissary to Persia by the Khagan of Ruru, as well as Parthia, Tuyuhun and Yuezhi. Later he went on a mission to the Northern Qi, Northern Zhou and Sui dynasties. He served as (, lit. “acting director of the office of Zoroastrian affairs”, or “Sogdian affairs”) during the Northern Zhou period. The term () comes from the Sogdian , means a “caravan leader”.\n\nHe had later served as a provincial governor in the Sui dynasty government, a chieftain of the Central Asian people who had settled in China during that period. Yu Hong died at the age of 59 in 592 AD. His wife survived her husband by six years, she was buried in the same grave in 598 AD.\n\nA study on ancient DNA reveals that Yu Hong belonged to the haplogroup U5, one of the oldest western Eurasian-specific haplogroups, while his wife can be classified as haplogroup G, the type prevalent in East Asia.\n\nIt is a single-chamber tomb of brick structure, composed of the tomb passageway, foyer, entrance and chamber. The entrance is almost entirely destroyed except for the lower part. Five octagonal marble pillars were found in the chamber, about 132 centimetres in height, two of which are intact, three are broken. Each one has a pillar foundation in the shape of an upturned lotus. A marble sarcophagus located in the centre of the chamber.\n\nApart from the marble pillars and sarcophagus, the tomb has yielded human figurines in stone, horse figurines in pottery, white porcelain bowls, two epitaph covers and stones, et cetera, amounting to more than 80 pieces. The central part of the epitaph cover for Yu Hong is taken up by nine characters in relief in seal script, it reads “Epitaph of Master Yu of the Great Sui, formerly unequalled in Honour” ().\n\nThe sarcophagus is made up of white marble, it assumes the appearance of a temple with the hip-and-gable roof. It is composed of three parts: the rectangular platform, walls in the middle section and the roof. The sarcophagus rested on a support platform, at each side of the platform there are two stone supports in the form of a lion’s head. The entire sarcophagus stands in 2.17 metres in height.\n\nIt is covered with bas-reliefs and painted stone panels, comprising 54 scenes, featuring motifs of Central Asian or Persian origin, such as the costumes, vessels, musical instruments and dances. They depict banqueting, dancing, hunting, among others. As can be seen in the reliefs Yu Hong hunting with nomads on horses, camels, but also hunting on an Indian elephant. In addition, numerous Zoroastrian symbols are clearly displayed: the holy fire on a lotus, guarded by two priests half-bird, half-human wearing the traditional padam (a piece of cloth in front of the mouth), and also including a portrayal of Mithra wearing a Sasanian crown, which decorated with the typical symbol of a solar disc resting on crescent moon. The figures in these reliefs all have deep-set eyes and beak nose.\nThe nine main bas-reliefs are the large-size pieces (panels) carved in marble and originally painted in gold (gilded), red and brown pigments, on the exterior of the front right and left walls, and on the interior of the right, rear and left walls. They can be divided into two groups: the first group consists of four pieces, which may depict some scenes from Yu Hong’s daily life; the rest may represent his afterlife in paradise. Each panel is divided into a larger upper part and a smaller lower part.\n\n\nThese paintings are on the rear side of the sarcophagus platform.\n\n"}
{"id": "10885735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10885735", "title": "UFOs: Seeing Is Believing", "text": "UFOs: Seeing Is Believing\n\nUFOs: Seeing Is Believing is a two-hour American television special documentary film that aired on ABC on February 24, 2005. The program is narrated by Peter Jennings and features UFOs. It was produced by PJ Productions and Springs Media for ABC News.\n\nThe documentary mentions:\n\nThe documentary has since aired on the National Geographic Channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "15522450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15522450", "title": "UNESCO Confucius Prize for Literacy", "text": "UNESCO Confucius Prize for Literacy\n\nThe UNESCO Confucius Prize for Literacy recognizes the activities of outstanding individuals, governments or governmental agencies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) working in literacy serving rural adults and out-of-school youth, particularly women and girls. The Prize was established in 2005 through the support of the Government of the People's Republic of China in honour of the great Chinese scholar Confucius. It is part of the International Literacy Prizes, which UNESCO awards every year in recognition of excellence and inspiring experiences in the field of literacy throughout the world. The Confucius Prize offers two awards of US$20,000 each, a medal and a diploma, as well as a study visit to literacy project sites in China.\n\nThe Prize is open to institutions, organizations or individuals displaying outstanding merit in literacy, achieving particularly effective results and promoting innovative approaches. The selection of prizewinners is made by an International Jury appointed by UNESCO’s Director-General, which meets in Paris once a year. The Prize is awarded at an official ceremony held for that purpose at UNESCO Headquarters in Paris on the occasion of International Literacy Day (8 September).\n\n"}
{"id": "24092049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24092049", "title": "Vaishnava Carana dasa Babaji", "text": "Vaishnava Carana dasa Babaji\n\nVaiṣṇava Carana dāsa was a Vaishnava guru. A Vaidya by caste, his real name was Gokulananda Sen. His Sripata was located at Tena Vaidyapura about six miles from the Jhamatpura subdivision of Katwa. He compiled the Padakalpataru in 1718-1723 AD. He also wrote the preface for the Mahā-vandanā.\n\nHe was the disciple of Radhamohana Thakura, a descendant of Srinivasa Acarya. His own disciples included Krishna das Babaji. He was an accomplished musician and popularized the tradition known as \"Tenar chap\" or \"Dhap\".\nHe was the friend of a Vaisnava poet named Uddhava dasa (Krsnakanta Majumdar). Vaisnava dasa was present at the debate held in Bengal in 1708 AD (1115) wherein the superiority of svakiya or parakiya was discussed.\n\n"}
{"id": "292079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292079", "title": "Veles (god)", "text": "Veles (god)\n\nVeles (Cyrillic Serbian, Bulgarian and Macedonian: Велес; ; ; Bosnian, Croatian, Czech, Slovak, Slovenian: \"Veles\"; Ruthenian and Old Church Slavonic: Велесъ; ), also known as Volos (, listed as a Christian saint in Old Russian texts), is a major Slavic god of earth, waters, forests and the underworld. His attributes are wet, wooly, hairy (bearded), dark and he is associated with cattle, the harvest, wealth, music, magic and trickery. Believed to be related to the Indo-European deity of Mitra, as well as the Norse deity Loki. According to reconstruction by some researchers he is the opponent of the Supreme thunder-god Perun. As such he probably has been imagined as a dragon, which in the belief of the pagan Slavs is a chimeric being, a serpent with a bear's head and drooping hairy ears. His tree is the willow, like god Perun's tree is the oak.\nNo direct accounts survive, but reconstructions speculate that he may directly continue aspects of the Proto-Indo-European pantheon.\n\nVeles is one of few Slavic gods for which evidence of offerings can be found in all Slavic nations. The \"Primary Chronicle\", a historical record of the early Kyivan Rus, is the earliest and most important record, mentioning a god named Volos several times. Many etymologists, however, suppose them two different gods. Here, Volos is mentioned as god of cattle and peasants, who will punish oath-breakers with diseases, the opposite of Perun who is described as a ruling god of war who punishes by death in battle. In the later half of the 10th century, Veles or Volos was one of seven gods whose statues Volodymyr I, Prince of Kyiv had erected in his city. It is very interesting that Veles's statue apparently did not stand next to others, on the hill where the prince's castle was, but lower in the city, on the marketplace. Not only does this indicate that Veles was connected with commerce, but it also shows that worship of Perun and Veles had to be kept separate: while it was proper for Perun's shrines to be built high, on the top of the hill, Veles's place was down, in the lowlands.\n\nA similar pattern can be observed among the South Slavs. Here the name of Veles appears only in toponyms, the best-known of which is the city of Veles in Macedonia, over which looms a hill of St. Elias the Thunderer. Also, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a part of Sarajevo is called Velešići and a mountain Velež near Mostar, Herzegovina. Other examples are Veles in Western Serbia, Velesnica on the Danube and Velestovo in Montenegro and also the township of Velestino (Βελεστίνο, today Φέρες), apparently bearing testimony to a Slavic layer in the settlement of Thessaly. Another debatable if not improbable example is the town of Volosko in Croatia, situated on the seashore under the peak of Mount Učka, nicknamed Perun.\n\nAmong Western Slavs, the name can be principally found in 15th and 16th century Czech records, where it means either dragon or devil.\n\nPresumably it is not possible to conclusively determine a definite etymology for the name of the god Veles, though there are several Proto-Indo-European roots that are all closely related to the nature of Veles and his domains.\n\nOne possibility is that the name derives from the Proto-Indo-European root \"*wel-\", meaning wool. This seems plausible, since in Slavic cosmology Veles in serpentine form is lying in a nest of black wool in the roots of the Tree of the World and Veles is the shepherd of the dead. \"Volos\" is also the Russian and Ukrainian word for \"hair\" and Veles is hairy in his beastly form (bear, wolf).\n\nThe Proto-Indo-European root \"*welg-\" also means humid, wet. Nothing is more connected with Veles than humidity and wetness. His domain is down, 'у воду пот корч пот колоду' (in the water, below the tree stub and the log). That is where Veles is in his place.\n\nThere is also the Indo-European word \"*woltus\" meaning meadow which is derived from the same root. And Veles is the shepherd of the dead who was imagined to browse the deceased on green lush meadows in the underworld.\n\nAnd finally the Elysian Fields (Ἠλύσιον πεδίον or Ἠλύσιος λειμών) where \"Ἠλύσιος\" is etymologically related to the name Veles and in Greek \"λειμών\" is a low wet place, a meadow, a pasture.\n\nThe name may also be related to Slavic terminology for oxen, for which the South Slavs, Russians, and Poles use \"вол/vol/wół\". Volos can also be a derivation from the same root by Eastern Slavic phonetic laws, now considered the most probable explanation for this phonetic form.\n\nIt is probably the same as Vala, the enemy of the Vedic thunder-god Indra, and to Velns (Latvian) or Vėlinas (Lithuanian), a devil of Baltic mythology and enemy of the Baltic thunder-god Perkūnas (cf. Slavic \"Perun\"), as well as Nordic \"Vǫlsi\" \"Priapus\". \n\nAnother parallel to Norse mythology is that a Völva, or Vala, was a seeress who was connected with water and foretelling, called 'Völuspa' (that is, Völva+Spake/Speech). In Norse myth, making Völuspas was connected to spinning/braiding the Thread of Fate for the one whose future had been foreseen. Völva is cognate to 'Wheel/Spinning Wheel'. All also traits of the goddess Mokosh/Vela\n\nThe Russian philologists Vyacheslav Ivanov and Vladimir Toporov reconstructed the mythical battle of Perun and Veles through comparative study of various Indo-European mythologies and a large number of Slavic folk stories and songs. A unifying characteristic of all Indo-European mythologies is a story about a battle between a god of thunder and a huge serpent or a dragon. In the Slavic version of the myth, Perun is a god of thunder, while Veles acts as a dragon who opposes him, consistent with the Vala etymology; He is also similar to the Etruscan Underworld-monster Vetha and to the dragon Illuyankas, enemy of the storm god of Hittite mythology.\n\nThe reason for the enmity between the two gods is Veles's theft of Perun's son, wife or, usually, cattle. It is also an act of challenge: Veles, in the form of a huge serpent, slithers from the caves of the Underworld and coils upwards the Slavic world tree towards Perun's heavenly domain. Perun retaliates and attacks Veles with his lightning bolts. Veles flees, hiding or transforming himself into trees, animals or people. In the end he is killed by Perun, and in this ritual death, whatever Veles stole is released from his battered body in the form of rain falling from the skies. This 'storm myth', or 'divine battle', as it is generally called by scholars today, explained to ancient Slavs the changing of seasons through the year. The dry periods were interpreted as chaotic results of Veles's thievery. Storms and lightning were seen as divine battles. The ensuing rain was the triumph of Perun over Veles and the re-establishment of world order. On a deeper level, as has been said above, Perun's place is up, high and dry and Veles' down, low and wet. By climbing up into the sphere of Perun, Veles disrupts the equilibrium of the world and needs to be put in his place. Perun does this in a fierce battle by smiting him with his lightning and drives him down into the water under the tree stub and the log, and by putting him back in his place he restores order. Then they stop being adversaries and remain just opponents until the next time Veles tries to crawl up into Perun's realm.\n\nThe myth was cyclical, repeating itself each year. The death of Veles was never permanent; he would reform himself as a serpent who would shed its old skin and would be reborn in a new body. Although in this particular myth he plays a negative role as bringer of chaos, Veles was not seen as an evil god by ancient Slavs. In fact, in many of the Russian folk tales, Veles, appearing under the Christian guise of St. Nicholas, saves the poor farmer and his cattle from the furious and destructive St. Elias the Thunderer, who, of course, represents the old Perun.\nThe duality and conflict of Perun and Veles does not represent the dualistic clash of good and evil; rather, it is the opposition of the natural principles of earth, water and substance (Veles) against heaven, fire and spirit (Perun).\n\nThe Ivanov/Toporov conception of \"the key myth\" of Slavic mythology has been criticized by several authors, including Leo Klejn and Igor M. Diakonoff. Many, including Klejn, pointed out that Ivanov and Toporov often tended to unjustified generalizations and considered many of their arguments \"far-fetched\". Supporters of the theory, on the other hand, include Boris Uspensky, T. Sudnik and T. Tsivyan, and others.\n\nAccording to Ivanov and Toporov, Veles's portrayal as having a penchant for mischief is evident both from his role in Storm myth and in carnival customs of Koledari shamans. In his role as a trickster god, he is in some ways similar to both Greek Hermes and Scandinavian Loki, and like them, he was connected with magic. The word \"volhov\", obviously derived from his name, in some Slavic languages still means sorcerer, while in the 12th century Ruthenian epic The Tale of Igor's Campaign, character of Boyan the wizard is called Veles's grandson. Since magic was and is closely linked to music in many societies, particularly earlier ones, Veles was also believed to be protector of travelling musicians. For instance, in some wedding ceremonies of northern Croatia (which continued up to the 20th century), the music would not start playing unless the bridegroom, when making a toast, spilled some of the wine on the ground, preferably over the roots of the nearest tree. The symbolism of this is clear, even though forgotten long ago by those still performing it: the musicians will not sing until a toast is made to their patron deity.\n\nAfter the advent of Christianity, Veles was split into several different characters. As a god of the Underworld and dragons, he, of course, became identified with the Devil. His more benevolent sides were transformed to several Christian saints. As a protector of cattle, he became associated with Saint Blaise, popularly known among various Slavic nations as St. Vlaho, St. Blaz, or St. Vlasiy. In Yaroslavl, for example, the first church built on the site of Veles's pagan shrine was dedicated to St Blaise, for the latter's name was similar to Veles and he was likewise considered a heavenly patron of shepherds. As mentioned already, in many Eastern Slavic folk tales, he was replaced by St. Nicholas, probably because the popular stories of the saint describe him as a giver of wealth and a sort of a trickster.\n\nVeles Bastion on Brabant Island, Antarctica is named after the deity.\n\n"}
{"id": "29436504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29436504", "title": "Zand-i Wahman yasn", "text": "Zand-i Wahman yasn\n\nThe Zand-i Wahman Yasn is a medieval Zoroastrian apocalyptical text in Middle Persian. It professes to be a prophetical work, in which Ahura Mazda gives Zoroaster an account of what was to happen to the \"behdin\" (those of the \"good religion\", i.e. the Zoroastrians) and their religion in the future. The oldest surviving manuscript (K20, in Copenhagen) is from about 1400, but the text itself is older, written and edited over the course of several generations.\n\nThe work is also known as the \"Bahman Yasht\" and \"Zand-i wahman yasht\". These titles are scholastic mistakes, in the former case due to 18th century Anquetil Du Perron, and the latter due to 19th century Edward William West. The text is neither a Yasht, nor is it in any way related to the Avesta's (lost) \"Bahman Yasht\" (see note below). Chapter and line pointers to the \"Zand-i Wahman Yasn\" are conventionally abbreviated \"ZWY\", and follow the subdivisions defined in the 1957 Anklesaria translation. These subdivisions differ from those used in earlier translations.\n\nThe text survives in two versions: a Middle Persian version in Pahlavi script, and in a Pazand transliteration with commentary in Avestan script. From the scholastic point of view, the work is enormously interesting for the study of religion. While the text is superficially an Iranian one, there is some question whether some of the details are Iranian adaptions from alien sources. Arguments for both an indigenous origin (with loaning to Judeo-Christian tradition), and vice versa (borrowing from Semitic and Hellenistic sources) have been put forward. A connection to the Hellenistic \"Oracles of Hystaspes\" is generally acknowledged. That text, unlike most works attributed to Pseudo-Zoroastrian authors, was apparently based on genuine Zoroastrian traditions.\n\nStructurally, the \"Zand-i Wahman Yasn\" is laid out as a conversation between Zoroaster and Ahura Mazda, in which the latter gives his prophet the ability to see into the future. Chapters 1, 2 and 3 introduce a millennial scheme with seven periods. The first three periods represent the ages up and including the \"millennium of Zoroaster\". The last four periods, which account for what will occur thereafter, are analogized as a tree with four branches, one each of gold, silver, steel, and impure iron. Chapters 4, 5 and 6 prophesy the calamities that will occur when the \"enemies of the good religion\" (see Aniran) conquer Iran at the end of the \"tenth millennium\", causing a debasement of moral, social, religious order (see Asha, \"order\"). Chapters 7, 8 and 9 prophesy the events of the last 3,000 years of the world, beginning with the eleventh millennium, and in which the arrival of each of the three \"saoshyant\"s are foretold. The text prophecies the end of the world as a great conflagration in which the world is destroyed/purified by fire, with Ahura Mazda's eventual triumph, after which the dead righteous (\"ashavan\") are resurrected to eternal perfection and reunification with God, and time ends.\n\nIn the 19th century, James Darmesteter surmised that the \"Zand-i Wahman Yasn\" represented a translation of parts of the Avesta's lost \"Bahman Yasht\". This notion is no longer followed today; modern scholarship is in agreement that the 6th century work has \"nothing in common\" with what is actually known of the genuine Avestan Bahman yasht texts. The Amesha Spenta Bahman/Wahman (Av: Vohu Manah) does not even appear in the text. That the basic \"plot\" draws on Avestan material, and that the work mimics the style of the Avesta's authors, are generally acknowledged.\n\n"}
