{"id": "959184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=959184", "title": "Academic Ranking of World Universities", "text": "Academic Ranking of World Universities\n\nAcademic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU), also known as Shanghai Ranking, is one of the annual publications of world university rankings. The league table was originally compiled and issued by Shanghai Jiao Tong University in 2003, making it the first global university ranking with multifarious indicators.\n\nSince 2009, ARWU has been published and copyrighted annually by Shanghai Ranking Consultancy, an independent organization focusing on higher education. In 2011, a board of international advisory consisting of scholars and policy researchers was established to provide suggestions. The publication currently includes global league tables for institutions and a whole and for a selection of individual subjects, alongside independent regional \"Greater China Ranking\" and \"Macedonian HEIs Ranking\".\n\nARWU is regarded as one of the three most influential and widely observed university rankings, alongside \"QS World University Rankings\" and \"Times Higher Education World University Rankings\". It is often praised for the objectivity, stability and transparency of its methodology, but draws some criticism for heavily focusing on scientific research and downplaying the quality of instruction; it also does not adequately adjust for the size of the institution, so that larger institutions would tend to rank above smaller ones.\n\nARWU is praised by several media and institutions for its methodology and influence. A survey on higher education published by \"The Economist\" in 2005 commented ARWU as \"the most widely used annual ranking of the world's research universities.\" In 2010, \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" called ARWU \"the best-known and most influential global ranking of universities\". EU Research Headlines reported the ARWU's work on 31 December 2003: \"The universities were carefully evaluated using several indicators of research performance.\" Chancellor of University of Oxford, Chris Patten and former Vice-Chancellor of Australian National University, Ian Chubb, said: \"the methodology looks fairly solid ... it looks like a pretty good stab at a fair comparison.\" and \"The SJTU rankings were reported quickly and widely around the world… (and they) offer an important comparative view of research performance and reputation.\" respectively. Philip G. Altbach named ARWU's 'consistency, clarity of purpose, and transparency' as significant strengths. While ARWU has originated in China, the ranking have been praised for being unbiased towards Asian institutions.\n\nThe ranking is condemned for \"relying too much on award factors\" thus undermining the importance of quality of instruction and humanities. A 2007 paper published in the journal \"Scientometrics\" found that the results from the Shanghai rankings could not be reproduced from raw data using the method described by Liu and Cheng. A 2013 paper in the same journal finally showed how the Shanghai ranking results could be reproduced. In a report from April 2009, J-C. Billaut, D. Bouyssou and Ph. Vincke analyse how the ARWU works, using their insights as specialists of Multiple Criteria Decision Making (MCDM). Their main conclusions are that the criteria used are not relevant; that the aggregation methodology has a number of major problems; and that insufficient attention has been paid to fundamental choices of criteria. The ARWU researchers themselves, N.C Liu and Y Cheng, think that the quality of universities cannot be precisely measured by mere numbers and any ranking must be controversial. They suggest that university and college rankings should be used with caution and their methodologies must be understood clearly before reporting or using the results. ARWU has been criticised by the European Commission as well as some EU member states for \"favour[ing] Anglo-Saxon higher education institutions\". For instance, ARWU is repeatedly criticised in France, where it triggers an annual controversy, focusing on its ill-adapted character to the French academic system and the unreasonable weight given to research often performed decades ago. It is also criticised in France for its use as a motivation for fusing universities into larger ones. Indeed, a further criticism has been that the metrics used are not independent of university size, e.g. number of publications or award winners will mechanically add as universities are grouped, independently of research (or teaching) quality; thus a merger between two equally-ranked institutions will almost double the merged institutions score and give it a higher ranking, without any change in quality.\n\nAs it may take much time for rising universities to produce Nobel laureates and Fields Medalists with numbers comparable to those of older institutions, the Institute created alternative rankings excluding such award factors so as to provide another way of comparisons of academic performance. The weighting of all the other factors remains unchanged, thus the grand total of 70%.\n\nThere are two categories in ARWU's disciplinary rankings, broad subject fields and specific subjects. The methodology is similar to that adopted in the overall table, including award factors, paper citation, and the number of highly cited scholars.\nConsidering the development of specific areas, two independent regional league tables with different methodologies were launched.\n\n"}
{"id": "6702484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6702484", "title": "Academy of Performing Arts in Bratislava", "text": "Academy of Performing Arts in Bratislava\n\nThe Academy of Performing Arts in Bratislava (, abbr. VŠMU) is a university founded on June 9, 1949.\n\nThe university consists of three faculties:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40825774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40825774", "title": "Adaptive performance", "text": "Adaptive performance\n\nAdaptive performance in the work environment refers to adjusting to and understanding change in the workplace. An employee who is versatile is valued and important in the success of an organization. Employers seek employees with high adaptability, due to the positive outcomes that follow, such as excellent work performance, work attitude, and ability to handle stress. Employees, who display high adaptive performance in an organization, tend to have more advantages in career opportunities unlike employees who are not adaptable to change. In previous literature, Pulakos and colleagues established eight dimensions of adaptive performance.\n\nPulakos et al. proposed the following dimensions for adaptive performance: \n\nPulakos et al. developed a scale for adaptive performance based on their eight-dimension model. This scale, the Job Adaptability Inventory (JAI), contains 132 questions (15 – 18 questions per dimension).\nAnother similar tool is the I-ADAPT measure (I-ADAPT-M) developed by Ployhart and Bliese, based on their I-ADAPT theory. They focused on adaptability as a personality-like trait which describes individual's ability to adapt to organizational changes. Therefore, there is a difference between I-ADAPT-M and the JAI which measures adaptive performance as behaviors. The I-ADAPT-M also has eight dimensions (crisis adaptability, stress adaptability, creative adaptability, uncertain adaptability, learning adaptability, interpersonal adaptability, cultural adaptability, and physical adaptability), with 5 items for every dimension.\n\nWork stress has been considered as a major factor of many work outcomes, like performance, nonproductive behavior and turnover. An employee being able to adapt to change within an organization is more focused, and able to deal with stressful situations. An employee who is unable to absolve their strain is unable to focus on what is occurring in the organization, such as organizational change. Not only can work stress predict adaptive performance to a considerable extent, there are also a lot of overlaps between adaptive performance and stress coping.\n\nIt has been long recognized that work stress generally has a negative effects on job performance, but there is differential influence resulting from different perceptions of stressors. When faced with a new situation, individuals would spontaneously begin to evaluate their own abilities and skills as compared with the requirements of the situation, which is referred to as stress appraisals. Such stress appraisal has two stages: primary appraisal and secondary appraisal. In the primary appraisal stage, individuals evaluate what potential threats there will be, concerning the demands from situation and the goals and values of themselves. In the secondary appraisal stage, individuals evaluate the resources they have to deal with those requirements. The results of appraisal, after two stages, are indicated to fall on a continuum between two extremes of being challenged and threatened. Challenge appraisals mean that individuals feel their resources, like abilities and social support to be abundant sufficient to fulfill requirements of the situation. Threat appraisals, on the other hand, mean that individuals are not confident about their abilities or other resources to respond to the situation demands. \nThreat appraisals and challenge appraisals could influence job performance distinctively. As for adaptive performance, the more challenging (i.e., the less threatening) one's stress appraisals are, the more adaptive performance he/she would have. This relationship is mediated by self-efficacy, which is a belief about one's capacities for certain tasks. Challenging rather than threatening appraisals would lead to higher levels of self-efficacy, and thus benefit individuals' adaptive performance.\n\nCoping, as a form of response to stressors, describes how individuals handle stressful events. It is very close to one dimension of adaptive performance by definition (i.e., the Handling Work Stress dimension), and coping has been suggested to be another form of adaptation. However, they are still different constructions. \nStress coping could be divided into several styles and strategies based on several theories. One general idea is to divide coping as active coping and avoidant coping. Active coping means to proactively address and resolve stressful events, like quitting a stressful job and changing into a less overwhelming one. Avoidant coping means to reduce stress by ignoring it, like involving in problematic drinking. Another set of coping strategy types includes problem-focused coping and emotion-focused coping. Problem-focused coping involves using skills and knowledge to deal with the cause of their problems. Emotion-focused coping involves releasing negative emotions by ways like distracting or disclaiming.\nAdaptive performance involves a mixture of different coping strategies. Because adaptive performance concerns positive aspects of behaviors, it is more closely related to coping strategies that have positive effects, such as active coping and problem-focused coping. Therefore, adaptive performance is more likely to contain such behaviors in stressful situations.\n\nIn addition to individual adaptive performance, psychologists are also interested in adaptive performance at team level. Team adaptive performance is defined as an emergent phenomenon that compiles over time from the unfolding of a recursive cycle whereby one or more team members use their resources to functionally change current cognitive or behavioral goal-directed action or structures to meet expected or unexpected demands. It is a multilevel phenomenon that emanates as team members and teams recursively display behavioral processes and draw on and update emergent cognitive states to engage in change. Team adaptive performance is considered as the core and proximal temporal antecedents to team adaptation, which could be seen as a change in team performance in response to a salient cue or cue stream that leads to a functional outcome for the entire team.\nAlong with the definition of team adaptive performance, researchers came up with a four-stage model to describe the process of team adaptive performance. The four core constructs characterizing this adaptive cycle include: (1) situation assessment; (2) plan formulation; (3) plan execution, via adaptive interaction processes; and (4) team learning, as well as emergent cognitive states (i.e., shared mental models, team situational awareness, psychological safety), which serve as both proximal outcomes and inputs to this cycle.\nTeam adaptive performance differs from individual adaptive performance from several aspects. Team adaptive performance reflects the extent to which the team meets its objectives during a transfer performance episode, whereas individual adaptive performance reflects the extent to which each member effectively executes his or her role in the team during the transfer episode. Team adaptive performance also has different antecedents compared with individual adaptive performance.\n\nPeople have identified several dispositional and contextual factors that would affect team adaptive performance. The most obvious and natural predictor of team adaptive performance is characteristics of team members, or team composition. Team composition with respect to members' cognitive ability is positively associated with team adaptive performance, with a moderation effect of team goals. Teams with difficult goals and staffed with high-performance orientation members are especially unlikely to adapt. Teams with difficult goals and staffed with high-learning orientation members are especially likely to adapt. Moreover, team members' self-leadership, conscientiousness, and attitudes could also influence team adaptive performance.\nOther factors are more related to interactions between team members and team environment, like team learning climate). Among them coordination of team members has been proved to be a most influential factor. Teams' ability to adapt their coordination activities to changing situational demands is crucial to team performance. A stronger increase in the teams' adaptive coordination was found to be related to better performance. Researchers have posited that the maintenance of coordinated effort and activities (\"coordination maintenance\") is necessary for high team adaptive performance. This is because even with well-adapted individual performance, workflow at the team level often becomes disrupted, \"overflowing\" in particular directions. Overflow may create excessive work demands for some team members, while encouraging social loafing among those who are in the ebb of the workflow (see social loafing). This suggests that, although team members may have their own task boundaries, and individual adaptive performance may depend on each member's individual capabilities, however to the team, each employee's adaptive performance may result in successful completion of the team task only if all activities are coordinated and synchronized in a holistic fashion. Team learning climate also displays a significant, positive relationship with team adaptive performance.\n\nStudies show that for an individual to show leadership, they must not only perform well but the individual would need to be an adaptive learner as well. An individual who displays adaptive qualities and productivity in a team will most likely also display strong leadership characteristics. Organizations value adaptive performance in the leadership characteristics an individual possess, as it has proven to help workers maintain productivity in a dynamic work environment. For leaders to successfully perform their roles, they must be able to effectively address tasks and also be able to overcome social challenges. Adaptive performance is a critical characteristic to have when being the leader of an organization because it aids in successfully handling any workplace situations that may arise and helping an organization progress. Instead of resisting change in the workplace, a team leader with adaptive performance establishes a new behavior appropriate to the situation to shift a potential problem into a positive outcome. The correct type of leadership makes a positive change in the characteristics of a team's adaptability to assist in maintaining a healthy and positive workforce. Employees who display adaptive performance in leadership set an example for their colleagues specifically in showcasing the best way to prepare and handle adaptation in occurring organizational changes. Adaptive performance in leadership is valued by employers because an employee who displays those two characteristics tends to exemplify and motivate adaptive behavior within other individuals in the workforce.\n\nIn organizational situations where adaptability to the environment and difficult challenges occur often, an individual who possess transformational leadership is preferred. Transformational leadership is a leadership style that encourages team members to imagine new ideas of change and to take action on these ideas to help handle certain situations. This particular leadership style is commonly used in organizations, due to its positive outcomes such as higher work engagement, motivation, and creativity in employees. \nParker and Mason's 2010 study introduced a relationship between transformational leadership with work adaptation and work performance. The study stated that transformational leadership relates to adaptive performance by having team members become creative in the different strategies that can be used when approaching a certain situation which eventually leads to a higher performance. Being creative and handling stressful situations the team leader as well as the team exemplifies the dimensions of adaptive performance. This particular leadership style has also been shown as a motivator to increase the behavior of performance and adaptability in employees. An individual showcasing transformational leadership has the ability to encourage more adaptive and productive behavior within team members through presenting new ideas and possible outcomes in the workplace.\n\nAn individual who displays leadership adaptability is one who is able to adjust their thoughts and behavior to attain appropriate responses to complex situations helping them make appropriate decisions. A leader must make decisions and be adaptable to any organizational changes in order for the team to collectively continue workplace productivity. An adaptive leader makes decisions to perform a specific action to better fit the organization and help it become productive. By a leader displaying adaptive performance when making a decision, the team leader shows their awareness of a situation leading to new actions and strategies to reestablish fit and effectiveness. Organizations value the characteristic of adaptive decision making in an individual as it displays an individual's understanding and adjusting capabilities to a difficult situation further aiding in the decision making process.\n"}
{"id": "227417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227417", "title": "Anne Sullivan", "text": "Anne Sullivan\n\nJohanna Mansfield Sullivan Macy (April 14, 1866 – October 20, 1936), better known as Anne Sullivan, was an American teacher, best known for being the instructor and lifelong companion of Helen Keller.\n\nAt the age of five, Sullivan contracted trachoma, an eye disease, which left her blind and without reading or writing skills. She received her education as a student of the Perkins School for the Blind where upon graduation she became a teacher to Keller when she was 20.\n\nSullivan was born on April 14, 1866, in Feeding Hills, Agawam, Massachusetts. According to her baptismal certificate, her name at birth was Johanna Mansfield Sullivan; however, she was called Anne or Annie from birth. She was the oldest child of Thomas and Alice (Cloesy) Sullivan. Her family emigrated to the United States from Ireland during the Great Famine. When she was only five years old she contracted a bacterial eye disease known as trachoma, which created painful infections and over time made her nearly blind. When she was eight, her mother died, and her father abandoned the children two years later for fear he could not raise them on his own. She and her younger brother, James (\"Jimmie\"), were sent to an overcrowded almshouse in Tewksbury, Massachusetts (today part of Tewksbury Hospital). Jimmie had a weak hip condition and died two to three months into their stay. Sullivan remained at the Tewksbury house for four years after his death, where she had eye operations that offered some short-term relief for her eye pain but ultimately proved ineffective.\n\nSullivan lost her sight at a young age and therefore had no skills in reading, writing, or sewing and the only work she could find was as a housemaid; however, this position was unsuccessful. Another blind resident staying at the Tewksbury almshouse told her of schools for the blind. During an 1880 inspection of the almshouse, she convinced inspector Franklin Benjamin Sanborn to allow her to leave and enroll in the Perkins School for the Blind in Boston, where she began her studies on October 7, 1880. Although her rough manners made her first years at Perkins humiliating for her, she managed to connect with a few teachers and made progress with her learning. While there, she befriended and learned the manual alphabet from Laura Bridgman, a graduate of Perkins and the first blind and deaf person to be educated there. Also while there, she had a series of eye operations that significantly improved her vision. In June 1886, she graduated at age 20 as the valedictorian of her class. She stated, \"Fellow-graduates: duty bids us go forth into active life. Let us go cheerfully, hopefully, and earnestly, and set ourselves to find our especial part. When we have found it, willingly and faithfully perform it; for every obstacle we overcome, every success we achieve tends to bring man closer to God and make life more as he would have it.\"\n\nThe summer following Sullivan's graduation, the director of the Perkins Institution, Michael Anagnos, was contacted by Arthur Keller, who was in search of a teacher for his seven-year-old blind and deaf daughter, Helen. Anagnos immediately recommended Sullivan for this position and she began her work on March 3, 1887, at the Kellers' home in Tuscumbia, Alabama. As soon as she arrived there, she argued with Helen's parents about the Civil War and over the fact that they used to own slaves. However she also quickly connected with Helen. It was the beginning of a 49-year relationship: Sullivan evolved from teacher to governess and finally to companion and friend.\n\nSullivan's curriculum involved a strict schedule with constant introduction of new vocabulary words, however, Sullivan quickly changed her teachings after seeing they did not suit Keller. Instead, she began to teach her vocabulary based on her own interests, by spelling each word out into Keller's palm; within six months this method proved to be working as Keller had learned 575 words, some multiplication tables, and the Braille system. Sullivan strongly encouraged Helen's parents to send her to the Perkins School where she could have an appropriate education. Once they agreed to this, Sullivan took Keller to Boston in 1888 and stayed with her there. Sullivan continued to teach her bright protégée, who soon became famous for her remarkable progress. With the help of Anagnos, Keller became a public symbol for the school, helping to increase its funding and donations and making it the most famous and sought-after school for the blind in the country. However, an accusation of plagiarism against Keller greatly upset Sullivan: she left and never returned, but did remain influential to the school. Sullivan remained a close companion to Keller and continued to assist in her education, which ultimately included a degree from Radcliffe College.\n\nOn May 3, 1905, Sullivan married Harvard University instructor and literary critic John Albert Macy (1877–1932), who had helped Keller with her publications. He moved in with them, and they lived together. However, within a few years, the marriage began to disintegrate. By 1914 they separated, though he is listed as living as a \"lodger\" with them in the 1920 U.S. Census. They never officially divorced. As the years progressed after their separation, he appears to have faded from her life. She never remarried.\n\nIn 1932 Keller and Sullivan were each awarded honorary fellowships from the Educational Institute of Scotland. They also were awarded honorary degrees from Temple University. In 1955 Keller was awarded an honorary degree from Harvard University,\nand in 1956 the director's cottage at the Perkins School was named the Keller-Macy Cottage.\n\nIn 2003, Sullivan was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nSullivan had been seriously visually impaired for almost all of her life, but by 1935 she was completely blind in both eyes. On October 15, 1936, she had a coronary thrombosis, fell into a coma, and died five days later on October 20 at age 70, in Forest Hills, Queens, New York with Keller holding her hand. Keller described Sullivan's last month as being very agitated, but during the last week she was said to return to her normal generous self. Sullivan was cremated and her ashes were interred in a memorial at the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C. She was the first woman to be recognized for her achievements in this way. When Keller died in 1968, her ashes were placed in the Washington National Cathedral next to those of Sullivan.\n\nSullivan is the main character in \"The Miracle Worker\", by William Gibson, originally produced for television in 1957, where she was portrayed by Teresa Wright. It then moved to Broadway, and was later produced as a 1962 feature film. Both the play and film featured Anne Bancroft as Sullivan. Patty Duke, who played Keller on Broadway and in the 1962 film version, later played Sullivan in a 1979 television remake. Roma Downey portrayed her in the TV movie \"Monday After the Miracle\" (1998). Alison Elliott portrayed her in a 2000 television movie. Alison Pill played her on Broadway in the short-lived 2010 revival, with Abigail Breslin as Keller.\n\nAnne Bancroft and Patty Duke won Academy Awards for Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress, respectively, for their roles as Sullivan and Keller in the 1962 film version \"The Miracle Worker\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10987471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10987471", "title": "Arab Academy of Damascus", "text": "Arab Academy of Damascus\n\nArab Academy of Damascus () is the oldest academy regulating the Arabic language, established in 1918 during the reign of Faisal I of Syria. It is based in al-Adiliyah Madrasa and is modeled on the language academies of Europe and founded with the explicit reference to the example of the Académie française.\n\nArabization was the major mission of this academy after long period of Ottoman domination and use of Ottoman Turkish in major parts of the Arab world. Since establishing, it has been operated by notable committees of Arabic language professors, scholars and experts could re-spread the use of Arabic in the state's institutions and daily life of many Arab countries by adapting widely accepted proceedings and records for Arabization. \n\nDirectors of this academy were as the following: \n\nAs of 2011, its library contains some 15,000 volumes and 500 manuscripts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36448161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36448161", "title": "Athuru Mithuru", "text": "Athuru Mithuru\n\nAthuru Mithuru is a preschool education paper in Sri Lanka which prints in Sinhala language monthly. \"Athuru Mithuru\" is the most popular preschool education paper in Sri Lanka which runs according to the pre-school curriculum.\nIt is published by the Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Limited (Lake House), a government-owned company. \nThe education paper commenced publishing on 1 May 2012. \"Athuru Mithuru\" is written as a tabloid size, with colorful drawings. It includes preschool activities, drawings, poems, stories and competitions.\n\nThe current editor-in-chief of the paper is Anoma Gangoda while Gunapala Jayalath is the sub-editor. The circulation is close to 100,000 and sales are managed by Dinesh De Alwis. \"Athuru Mithuru\" is distributed to the entire island by the Lake House Circulation Department headed by Sunil Sendanayake.\n\n"}
{"id": "14207240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14207240", "title": "Burton Jastram", "text": "Burton Jastram\n\nBurton Albert Jastram (June 5, 1910 – May 20, 1995) was an American rower who competed in the 1932 Summer Olympics and won the Gold Medal as a member of the American boat in the Eights Competition at the Long Beach Marine Stadium, beating the Italian crew from the University of Pisa by inches. Jastram won 1st Place in Eight Oared Shell - 6m. 6s. in the final tryouts at Worcester, MA held by The American Olympic Committee to select a team to represent the United States of America at the games of the X Olympiad Los Angeles, California 1932.\n\nBurt Jastram was the son of Burton Albert Jastram, Sr. and Alma Marie Smith of Lakeshore Avenue in Oakland and grandson of German immigrants, Joachim Christian Ludwig Jastram and Sophia Mernitz. He was born in San Francisco and raised as an only child. \"Iron Man\" Jastram, a graduate of Oakland High School, rowed in the No. 4 position and set the crew record of having more hours in the California university shell than any other oarsman at the time.\n\nHe graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a degree in Architecture and a seat on the United States' Olympic rowing crew. After winning his Olympic Gold Medal he did post-graduate work in Engineering and began a career with Standard Oil of California.\nJastram was Chief Architect with Standard Oil and supervised construction of the company's towers—one 20- and one 40-story building, as well as a garden plaza on Market Street in San Francisco.\n\nOn June 9, 1935, Jastram married Frances Wanless Christie. A daughter, Cathy Ann, was born to the couple on July 24, 1942.\n\nJastram belonged to the Museum Societies of both San Francisco and Oakland, Delta Sigma Chi Architectural Honor Society, National Trust for Historic Preservation, The Big \"C\" Society, and was a life member of the Mechanics' Institutes.\n\n"}
{"id": "50319899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50319899", "title": "Centre International de Mathématiques Pures et Appliquées", "text": "Centre International de Mathématiques Pures et Appliquées\n\nThe Centre International de Mathématiques Pures et Appliquées (CIMPA; in English: International Centre for Pure and Applied Mathematics) is an association under the 1901 French law on associations with the mission to promote research in mathematics in developing countries. CIMPA is a category 2 UNESCO centre, based in Nice and funded by France, Norway, Spain and Switzerland.\n\nFollowing a recommendation made during the 18th session of the General Conference of UNESCO in Paris in 1974, the creation of CIMPA was decided during the 19th session of the General Conference of UNESCO in Nairobi in 1976. On the initiative of the French Government and a group of founding members (J.P. Aubin, J. Céa, P. Deheuvels, F. Dress, C. Godbillon, H. Hogbe Nlend, J.L. Lions, J.L. Koszul, E.J. Picard, A. Revuz, P. Sabourin), the International Center for Pure and Applied Mathematics was formally created as an association of the law of 1901, on 30 October 1978. According to its statutes, its mission is the training of mathematicians coming in priority from developing countries, by means of study visits during the university academic year and of summer schools, and with the help of the development of means of documentations. The seat of CIMPA is fixed at Nice, and its host university is the University of Nice Sophia Antipolis.\n\nThe organization of about 20 research schools per year in developing countries constitutes the main activity of CIMPA. This is supplemented by other kinds of actions such as the research training schools in partnership with learned societies like the African Mathematical Union (AMU), the Mathematical Union of Latin America and the Caribbeans (UMALCA in Spanish), the South East Asian Mathematical Society (SEAMS) or the Southern Africa Mathematical Sciences Association (SAMSA). CIMPA works equally in partnership with other organizations with similar aims such as the International Mathematical Union (IMU) or the Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP).\n\nThe principal financial support of CIMPA comes from the French Ministry of Higher Education and Research (MESR in French), the University of Nice Sophia Antipolis, the laboratory of excellence CARMIN (Centre for international mathematical encounters), and the National Institute of Mathematical Sciences and their interactions (INSMI) of the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS). Since 2009, CIMPA is also supported by the Ministry of Economics and Competitiveness (MINECO, Spain), and since 2011 by the Ministry of Education and Research (Norway), and by a grant from Switzerland via the University of Neuchâtel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41406099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41406099", "title": "Certificate in Education and Training", "text": "Certificate in Education and Training\n\nThe Certificate in Education and Training (NEW CTLLS) is an initial teacher training qualification, studied at QCF Level 4, for teaching in Further Education (FE) and the lifelong learning sector of education in the United Kingdom. Study for the Certificate in Education and Training typically follows the completion of the Award in Education and Training at QCF Level 3, and precedes the start of the Diploma in Education and Training at QCF Level 5. The Certificate in Education and Training qualifies an associate teacher for Associate Teacher Learning and Skills (ATLS) status from the Institute for Learning. The Certificate in Education and Training replaces the Certificate in Teaching in the Lifelong Learning Sector.\nThe Certificate in Education and Training Level 4 is qualification for associate teacher.This does not allow you to apply for QTLS. https://www.gov.uk/qualified-teacher-status-qts\n\nLevel 4 Certificate In Education and Training Level 4\n"}
{"id": "21228525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21228525", "title": "Clarion West Writers Workshop", "text": "Clarion West Writers Workshop\n\nClarion West Writers Workshop is an intensive six-week program for writers preparing for professional careers in science fiction and fantasy. It runs annually from late June through the end of July. The workshop is limited to 18 students per year. Each of the six weeks is instructed by a different professional writer or editor. The roster of guest instructors changes yearly. Founded in Seattle, Washington in 1971, the workshop has been held continuously since 1984. Clarion West celebrated its 25th anniversary of continuous instruction in 2008.\n\nThe Clarion West board of directors currently includes Karen G. Anderson, Kelley Eskridge, Tod McCoy, Jeffrey Lemkin, Felicia Gonzalez, Phoebe Harris, V.N. Saunders, and Nisi Shawl.\n\nThe 1971 Clarion West Writers Workshop was founded by Vonda N. McIntyre, a Clarion Workshop graduate and Nebula and Hugo Award-winning author, with the support of original Clarion founder Robin Scott Wilson. It was modeled after the original Clarion Workshop founded in 1968 at Clarion University of Pennsylvania (itself inspired by the Milford Writer's Workshop). The original Clarion Workshop was slated to close after holding final classes in 1970, and the effort was made to establish and continue Clarion workshops in other locations. The 1971 successor workshops that sprang from this effort were Clarion West Workshop founded in Seattle, and Clarion Workshop revived in New Orleans (later moved to Michigan in 1972, and San Diego in 2007). Clarion West operated until 1973, before a hiatus.\n\nIn 1984, Clarion West graduate J.T. Stewart and Seattle writer, Marilyn J. Holt, reconvened the workshop with the support of founder Vonda N. McIntyre. Clarion West incorporated as a nonprofit organization with a board of directors in 1986 with the help of many dedicated Clarion West alumni. Currently the workshop is administered by Neile Graham and Huw Evans. Although the workshop is located in close proximity to the University of Washington, it is not associated with the university. It has operated continuously to the present day.\n\nThe workshop is combination of instruction and mutual student critique using the Clarion Method. The emphasis of learning is primarily geared toward hours spent reading, writing and critiquing. Normally, students are expected to write one complete draft of a story per week, to be critiqued the following week. Ideas for these stories are up to the student, but the emphasis is that the writing takes place on premises where fresh lessons and insight can be immediately applied to new story ideas. Work on 'trunk' stories, written before the workshop, is discouraged.\n\nThe class lecture and critique runs weekdays from morning to early afternoon. The remainder of the day is typically divided between writing for the next week's story deadline, reading, and preparing critiques. The workload is intense, but breaks and socializing are typical at all hours. Weekends are free time to socialize, explore the local sights, and catch up on unfinished writing and reading.\n\nEach student typically gets a weekly private conference with each instructor to ask questions and gain insight from that professional writer or editor.\n\nAlthough the focus of the workshop is on speculative fiction, such as science fiction and fantasy, other genres, including horror, comedy, mystery, and literary writing (and mixtures thereof) regularly grace the workshop stories. The workshop focuses on writing and critiquing short stories, but many aspects of novel writing are also discussed in workshop.\n\nThe speculative fiction community around the Seattle area has built support for the workshop over the years, and many special events have become part of the Clarion West tradition.\n\n\nThere are a number of class traditions passed down from one class to the next in the manner of a secret society. Traditions that are publicly known include the yearly Clarion West class shirt (designed by the class and limited only to the classmates and instructors of that year), and the practice of presenting unusual gifts to each of the instructors. Classes often come up with new traditions and items to pass on to the next year's class.\n\nSpace in the workshop is awarded to the top 18 applicants of all submissions received. The average number of applications is not disclosed and varies year to year.\n\nThe application window typically opens January 1 and runs through March 1 for the year attending. Students are usually selected and informed of acceptance by the end of March.\n\nAlthough Clarion West, Clarion, and Clarion South are run independently, they follow the same workshop method and are considered sister schools. Since both Clarion West and Clarion workshops run concurrently, students are often encouraged to apply to both workshops to increase their chances of attending that year. Students accepted to both programs must choose their preferred workshop. Each of the schools has similar but distinct guidelines.\n\nStudents that graduate one of the Clarion workshops are considered alumni of all the Clarion programs, and may not re-apply for any other Clarion Workshop.\n\n\n\nOther Clarion workshops that use the same workshop format, but are independently run include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34598438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34598438", "title": "Cobocards", "text": "Cobocards\n\nCoboCards is a web application for creation, study and sharing of flashcards. They also provide mobile application for Android and iOS mobile devices, to help study of flashcards on the move.\n\nBased on the freemium model, CoboCards provides users a free account with two card sets compared to paid subscription with premium features such as unlimited card sets, Leitner system based trainer and collaborative learning.\n\nCoboCards is a project of Jamil Soufan and Tamim Swaid. Tamim Swaid has developed the concept and interface of a collaboratively usable e-learning platform in his diploma thesis at the University of Applied Sciences in February 2007. In January 2010 they founded the CoboCards GmbH (limited company) together with Ali Yildirim.\n\nCoboCards is supported by its strategic partners Prof. Schroeder (RWTH Aachen University), Prof. Oliver Wrede (University for Applied Sciences Aachen) and Prof. Klaus Gasteier (University of Arts Berlin).\n\nWith the idea of creating and studying flashcards online and offering an active control of learning progress they won the start2grow business idea competition in September 2009 (25.000 €).\n\nAdditionally CoboCards was funded by German Authorities with approximately 100.000 €.\n"}
{"id": "5541266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5541266", "title": "Collegiate Middle Level Association", "text": "Collegiate Middle Level Association\n\nThe Collegiate Middle Level Association (CMLA) is a student association designed to promote and support the professional development of future middle level teachers, as well as the development and nurturing of middle level education programs. CMLA is an affiliate of National Middle School Association. Currently, Otterbein College is serving as the national host site for the organization's leadership. Their two-year leadership term will conclude November 2011 with CMLA's annual meeting at NMSA's headquarters in Columbus, OH.\n\n\nJohn Swaim,\nCMLA Advisory Chair\n\nThe Collegiate Middle Level Association currently has 31 chapters. These 31 chapters represent a growing number of colleges and universities who are now preparing teachers to teach young adolescents in American's middle schools. This would have been an unthinkable dream for a handful of college students in the middle school teacher education program at the University of Northern Colorado who were trying to create a national organization for students preparing to become middle school teachers in 1988. At that time there were only 18 states that had middle school certification or endorsement as opposed to 46 states today. In 1988 middle school teacher education programs were the exception rather than the rule. Even more rare were middle school teacher education programs with active student organizations. As the decade of the 90s began there were only four higher education institutions that had active middle school student groups, University of Northern Colorado, University of Northern Iowa, Illinois State University, and Appalachian State University.\n\nIn 1989, under the leadership of Ned Gilardino, a UNC student, a constitution was drafted and the Student Association for Middle Education (SAME) was born. Its name was later changed to Collegiate Middle Level Association (CMLA). That same year CMLA made a presentation to the NMSA Board of Trustees. The Board recognized CLMA and agreed to help finance them by sharing a percentage of the membership fee of all college students who joined NMSA and had an interest in also becoming a member of CMLA. However, joining by individual membership did not provide the stability that was needed to help the association grow. In fact, when the elections were held the officers often came from several different campuses which made it difficult to conduct the business of the association.\n\nThen, in 1995 two significant events occurred that moved CMLA to a new level. First, NMSA recognized CMLA as an official affiliate member, joining other state middle school associations. Secondly, CMLA moved from an individual membership to a chapter membership. The constitution underwent major revisions that not only changed membership from individual to chapter membership, but also changed how the association would be financed and governed. An advisory board was established consisting of the chapter advisors of all the member chapters. The officers were now elected from one campus that applied and was approved by the Advisory Board to be the host site for a two year term. Financing was more closely aligned with NMSA. The association was able to have two annual meetings rather than just meeting at the NMSA annual conference.\n\nAt first CMLA grew slowly under this newly revised structure. However, as more states legislated middle school teacher licensure and more colleges and universities began to develop middle school teacher education programs, CMLA provided an ever increasing number of prospective middle school teachers the opportunity to become professionally involved as middle level educators.\n\nThe following colleges and universities have been leadership host sites for CMLA since the new restructuring: Otterbein College (2009–Present); Georgia College & State University (2007-2009); University of Dayton (2005-2007); Ashland University (2003-2005); Appalachian State University (2001-2003); Central Michigan University (1999-2001); Missouri Southern State University (1997-1999); and Illinois State University (1995-1997).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16486691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16486691", "title": "Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education", "text": "Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education\n\nThe Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME) is the accrediting body for graduate programs in healthcare management in the United States and Canada. It is based in Rockville, Maryland and is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization.\n\nFounded in 1968 as the Accrediting Commission on Education for Health Services Administration (ACEHSA), it adopted its current name in 2004 to reflect a change in strategic direction. This came after its 2001 Orlando Forum, a meeting funded by the Kellogg Foundation and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and called to examine management and leadership preparation practices in the U.S. healthcare industry. As a result of the meeting, a task force was appointed, with representatives of the practice and academic communities. The task force recommended changes in the accreditation process, and the name of the organization was changed.\n\nCAHME has been granted recognition by the Council on Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) to accredit master's level-healthcare management programs in the United States. It also accredits programs in Canada and in 2018 has expanded to accredit programs outside of North America. The Association of University Programs in Health Administration (AUPHA) requires master's programs to have CAHME accreditation before they can be considered full members. CAHME works closely with its corporate members, Association of University Programs in Health Administration, the American College of Healthcare Executives, the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association Healthcare Financial Management Association, Ascension, Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society, Medical Group Management Association, HCA, and the American Hospital Association to establish the standards for healthcare management education \n\nThe most recent revision of the CAHME accreditation standards was published in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "573369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573369", "title": "David Kemp (politician)", "text": "David Kemp (politician)\n\nDavid Alistair Kemp (born 14 October 1941), Australian politician, was a Liberal member of the Australian House of Representatives from March 1990 to October 2004, representing the Division of Goldstein, Victoria.\n\nKemp was born in Melbourne, Victoria, and was educated at the University of Melbourne and Yale University, where he gained a doctoral degree in politics. He is the brother of Senator Rod Kemp, and the son of Charles Denton Kemp, founder of the Institute of Public Affairs.\n\nKemp was Senior Lecturer in Political Science at the University of Melbourne 1975–79 and Professor of Politics at Monash University, Melbourne 1979–90. He is the author of \"Society and Electoral Behaviour in Australia: a Study of Three Decades\" (1978), \"Malcolm Fraser on Australia\" (with D. M. White) (1986), \"Current Priorities for Liberalism\" (1986) and \"Foundations for Australian Political Analysis: Politics and Authority\" (1988).\n\nKemp was Senior Adviser to Malcolm Fraser, Leader of the Opposition and Prime Minister 1975–76 and Director of the Prime Minister's Office 1981.\n\nIn 1990 Kemp challenged Liberal MP and former Cabinet minister, Ian Macphee, for Liberal endorsement in the safe Melbourne seat of Goldstein. Kemp was seen as the candidate of the conservative wing of the Liberal Party, against a leading moderate liberal figure. Kemp won the battle.\n\nKemp was a member of the Opposition Shadow Ministry 1990–96. He was Minister for Schools, Vocational Education and Training, Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for the Public Service and Minister Assisting the Minister for Finance for Privatisation 1996–97. He was promoted to Cabinet as Minister for Employment, Education, Training and Youth Affairs 1997–98 and Minister for Education, Training and Youth Affairs 1998–2001. He was Minister for Environment and Heritage from November 2001 to July 2004. He was Vice-President of the Executive Council from October 1998 to July 2004. His brother Rod was a fellow minister.\n\nDavid Kemp retired at the 2004 election. He was succeeded as member for Goldstein by Andrew Robb.\n\nIn 2007, he was elected President of the Victorian Branch of the Liberal Party. He retired in 2011 and was replaced as Liberal state President by Tony Snell.\nIn 2012, Kemp became chairman of Scotch College, Melbourne. In 2017, Kemp was appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia for eminent service to the Parliament of Australia, notably in the areas of employment, education, training and youth affairs, to the environment, to institutional reform and public policy development, and to the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "3090743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3090743", "title": "Deaf Academic Bowl", "text": "Deaf Academic Bowl\n\nThe National Deaf Academic Bowl is an academic competition for deaf and hard of hearing students founded by Gallaudet University in 1997.\n\n\nThe National Most Outstanding Player Award is the most individual prestigious award that can be given out each year during the National Competitions. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853411", "title": "Dragon NaturallySpeaking", "text": "Dragon NaturallySpeaking\n\nDragon NaturallySpeaking (also known as Dragon for PC, or DNS) is a speech recognition software package developed by Dragon Systems of Newton, Massachusetts, which merged with Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products and was later acquired by Nuance Communications, formerly known as ScanSoft. It runs on Windows personal computers. Version 15 (Professional Individual and Legal Individual), which supports 32-bit and 64-bit editions of Windows 7, 8 and Windows 10, was released in August 2016. The macOS version is called Dragon Professional Individual for Mac, version 6 or \"Dragon for Mac\".\n\nNaturallySpeaking uses a minimal user interface. As an example, dictated words appear in a floating tooltip as they are spoken (though there is an option to suppress this display to increase speed), and when the speaker pauses, the program transcribes the words into the active window at the location of the cursor (Dragon does not support dictating to background windows). The software has three primary areas of functionality: voice recognition in dictation with speech transcribed as written text, recognition of spoken commands, and text-to-speech: speaking text content of a document. Voice profiles can be accessed by different computers in a networked environment, although the audio hardware and configuration must be identical to those of the machine generating the configuration. The Professional version allows creation of custom commands to control programs or functions not built into NaturallySpeaking.\n\nDr. James Baker laid out the description of a speech understanding system called DRAGON in 1975. \nIn 1982 he and Dr. Janet M. Baker, his wife, founded Dragon Systems to release products centered around their voice recognition prototype. He was President of the company and she was CEO.\n\nDragonDictate was first released for DOS, and utilized hidden Markov models, a probabilistic method for temporal pattern recognition. At the time, the hardware was not powerful enough to address the problem of word segmentation, and DragonDictate was unable to determine the boundaries of words during continuous speech input. Users were forced to enunciate one word at a time, each clearly separated by a small pause. DragonDictate was based on a trigram model, and is known as a discrete utterance speech recognition engine.\n\nDragon Systems released NaturallySpeaking 1.0 as their first continuous dictation product in 1997.\n\nJoel Gould was the director of emerging technologies at Dragon Systems. Gould was the principal architect and lead engineer for the development of Dragon NaturallyOrganized (1.0), Dragon NaturallySpeaking Mobile Organizer (3.52), Dragon NaturallySpeaking (1.0 through 2.02), and DragonDictate for Windows (1.0). Gould also designed the tutorials in both DragonDictate for DOS version 2.0 and Dragon Talk.\n\nThe company was then purchased in June 2000 by Lernout & Hauspie, a Belgium-based corporation that had been involved in financial scandals. Following the all-share deal advised by Goldman Sachs, Lernout & Hauspie declared bankruptcy in November 2000. The Bakers had received stock worth hundreds of millions of US dollars, but were only able to sell a few million dollars' worth before the stock lost all its value as a result of the accounting fraud. The Bakers sued Goldman Sachs for negligence, intentional misrepresentation and breach of fiduciary duty, which in January 2013 led to a 23-day trial in Boston. The jury cleared Goldman Sachs of all charges. Following the bankruptcy of Lernout & Hauspie, the rights to the Dragon product line were acquired by ScanSoft of Burlington, Massachusetts. In 2005 ScanSoft launched a \"de facto\" acquisition of Nuance Communications, and rebranded itself as Nuance.\n\nFrom 2012 LG Smart TVs include voice recognition feature powered by the same speech engine as Dragon NaturallySpeaking.\n\nDragon NaturallySpeaking 12 is available in the following languages: UK English, US English, French, German, Italian, Spanish, Dutch, and Japanese (aka \"Dragon Speech 11\" in Japan).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2604881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2604881", "title": "Enrico Cecchetti", "text": "Enrico Cecchetti\n\nEnrico Cecchetti (; 21 June 1850 in Rome – 13 November 1928 in Milan) was an Italian ballet dancer, mime, and founder of the Cecchetti method. The son of two dancers from Civitanova Marche, he was born in the costuming room of the \"Teatro Tordinona\" in Rome. After an illustrious career as a dancer in Europe, he went to dance for the Imperial Ballet in St. Petersburg, Russia, where he further honed his skills. Cecchetti was praised for his agility and strength in his performances, as well as his technical abilities in dance. By 1888, he was widely accepted as the greatest ballet virtuoso in the world.\n\nAfter an esteemed career in Russia, originating such roles as both the Bluebird and Carabosse in Petipa's masterpiece, \"The Sleeping Beauty\", he turned to teaching. Some of his students included other notable dancers of the Imperial Ballet, such as: Anna Pavlova, Léonide Massine, and Vaslav Nijinsky. While in London in 1920, he provided instruction to the American ballerina Ruth Page. He also restaged many ballets, including Petipa's definitive version of \"Coppélia\" in 1894, from which nearly all modern versions of the work are based. (This version was notated in the early 20th century, and is today part of the Sergeyev Collection). While teaching a class, Cecchetti collapsed and he died the following day, 13 November 1928.\n\nChanges to the choreography of the male variations featured in the works of the Imperial Ballet's repertory. In 1890, Cecchetti performed in the ground-breaking production of \"The Sleeping Beauty\", where his performance as the Bluebird caused a sensation in the audience at the Mariinsky Theatre. The choreography of the Bluebird has challenged male dancers even to the present day.\n\nCecchetti left the Imperial ballet in 1902 to accept the directorship of the Imperial Ballet School in Warsaw, Poland, then part of the Russian Empire. His farewell gala at the Mariinsky Theatre featured all of the leading ballerinas of the day, many of whom were his students. In order to have everyone pay him homage, the \"Paquita\" Grand pas classique was performed, with the inclusion of the favorite solos of all of the participating ballerinas. This led to the tradition of including a long suite of variations for several ballerinas.\n\nIn 1919 Cecchetti performed at the inaugural performance of the ballet, \"La Boutique fantasque,\" in London, appearing in the role of the shopkeeper.\n\nIn 1887 Cecchetti performed in St. Petersburg where Ivan Vsevolozhsky, the director of the Mariinsky Theatre saw him perform. He was so impressed with Cecchetti that he immediately hired Cecchetti as a principal dancer for the theatre. This was extremely rare at the time because normally dancers would be asked to join a company on a lower level.\n\nWith the introduction of the pointe shoe in the early 19th century, ballet was dominated by female performers using pointe technique. In many ways male technique had been reduced to the role of an actor whose responsibilities as a dancer were relegated to a servant who partnered the ballerina. Cecchetti immediately began transforming the traditionally conservative roles for the male dancer, making drastic changes to the choreography of the male variations featured in the works of the Imperial Ballet's repertory. In 1890, Cecchetti performed in the ground-breaking production of \"The Sleeping Beauty\", where his performance as the Bluebird caused a sensation in the auditorium of the Mariinsky Theatre. The choreography of the Bluebird has challenged male dancers even to the present day.\n\nCecchetti left the Imperial ballet in 1902 to accept the directorship of the Imperial Ballet School in Warsaw, Poland. His farewell gala at the Mariinsky Theatre featured all of the leading ballerinas of the day, many of whom were his students. In order to have everyone pay him homage, the \"Paquita\" Grand pas classique was performed with the inclusion of the favorite solos of all of the participating ballerinas. This led to the tradition of including a long suite of variations for several ballerinas.\n\nIn 1919 Cecchetti performed at the inaugural performance of the ballet \"La Boutique fantasque\" in London, appearing in the role of the shopkeeper.\n\nIn the tradition of classical ballet, techniques and parts are taught directly, person to person. The technique was passed on directly to Enrico Cecchetti, as he was taught by Giovanni Lepri, who in turn was taught by Carlo Blasis and the line can be traced back to Beauchamp the first ballet master at the court of Louis X1V. So, too, the Cecchetti method has been passed on directly by his former pupils such as Laura Wilson.\n\nCecchetti died in Milan on 13 November 1928.\n\nCecchetti created a ballet technique that is now known as the Cecchetti method. This technique is popular with past and present ballet teachers, remaining fresh and contemporary. After Cecchetti's death, Cyril Beaumont, Stanislas Idzikowsky, Margaret Craske and Derra de Moroda decided to codify Cecchetti's method so it could continue to be used by ballet teachers to perfect the technique of ballet dancers. Under the Cecchetti Method, dancers follow strict routines and daily exercises to develop all-around skills to support learning and performance of every kind of dance. This training method is used by many ballet companies around the world, including The National Ballet of Canada and Mont Albert Ballet School in Melbourne, Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7802826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7802826", "title": "Fish Tycoon", "text": "Fish Tycoon\n\nFish Tycoon is a casual game created and developed by Last Day of Work. One of the top-selling downloadable games of 2004, 2005, and 2006, \"Fish Tycoon\" was later ported to cell phone, retail, and Nintendo DS.\n\nPlayers take on the role of a fish store owner who must breed and care for hundreds of different kinds of exotic fish, all the while attempting to keep the fish store economically viable long enough to achieve the ultimate objective: breeding The Seven Magic Fish of Isola. The story for this game is that on the mysterious island of Isola there was a lagoon where the most magnificent fish swam. These fish were held together by the 7 magic fish but one day all of the fish have disappeared. Thus, you have to cross-breed fish to rediscover the 7 magic fish, solve the genetic puzzle, and \"restore the island to its former glory.\"\n\nGreenfin Spotanus\n\nSpeckled Leaffish\n\nCrimson Comet\n\nOriental Goldbulb\n\nOrange Snooper\n\nWasp Grouper\n\nCanary Fire-Arrow\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1065939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1065939", "title": "Fourth grade", "text": "Fourth grade\n\nFourth Grade (also called Grade Four, equivalent to Year Five in England and Wales) is a year of elementary education in some countries. In North America, the fourth grade is the fifth school year of elementary school. Students are usually 9–10 years old, depending on their birthday. It is a part of elementary school, a school providing instruction for young pupils, comprising traditionally of grades K-6. In some school districts, Fourth Grade is the first year of intermediate school or the last year of elementary. Examples of lessons taught include: larger place value; how to write a good summary; writing with transitions; how to read large numbers; writing with starter sentence; and detailed sentences.\n\nIn Argentina, the minimum age required for fourth grade is from 8 to 9 years old. In this instance, children who are in the middle of primary school performed the \"confirmation of loyalty to the homeland,\" is an act in which children will have to swear to the Argentina country to \"defend for the rest of his life\". Sometimes children do a trip to Rosario, where raises the National Flag Memorial (Argentina).\n\nIn elementary public schools, the study of the French Language begins.\n\nIn The Netherlands, the fourth year of school is called group 6, and the pupils are 9 to 10 years old. Children start at school at the age of 4 and end school at the age of 12 or 13. In Belgium, it is called 4th (study) year. The children are also around the age 9 and 10.\n\nIn France, the equivalent to the above grade is the , known by its short form CM1.\n\nIn India, children enter Class 6 at ages 9 to 10.\n\nIn The Republic of Ireland, the equivalent is Fourth Class or Rang a Ceathair (for 9- to 10-year-olds) which is year 6 of Primary School.\n\nIn New Zealand, this level of class is called Standard 3 or Year 5. Children generally start this level between the ages of nine and ten.\n\nIn Portugal, what North Americans would call the fourth grade (\"quarto ano\", \"4º ano\" to Portuguese people) is the fourth and last year of the four-year \"1º Ciclo do Ensino Básico\" that includes also the first grade, the second grade and the third grade. Students take final exams (\"provas finais\") of Portuguese and mathematics at the end of the fourth grade since the school year of 2012/2013.\n\nIn England, compulsory education begins with the first new term of the Reception year following a child's 5th birthday . In practice, many children enter Reception at the beginning of the school year, aged 4. The sixth year of school is called year 4 (starting with nursery- or kindergarten- then reception, then year 1, year 2, year 3, then year 4), and the pupils are 8 to 9 years old. Fourth grade is the equivalent of 'Year 5' (ages 9–10) in England and Wales, Primary 6 in Northern Ireland and Primary 6 in Scotland - the sixth year of compulsory education in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.\n\n4th Grade in the United States is a grade or level in which students need to be about 9–10 years old. Students study subjects such as math, science, English grammar and writing, literature, and history (often their state of residence during 4th grade). Most schools also offer health, music, art, and physical education. In some school districts, It is the first year of Intermediate school or the last year of Elementary school.\n\nMost states have adopted the Common Core standards. These standards state what students should accomplish at the conclusion of each grade level. 4th grade standards can be found at :///Math/Content/4/introduction/\n\nIn Spain, \"Primaria\" (6 to 12 years old) is compulsory for all children. 4th grade is called \"cuarto de Primaria\" or simply \"cuarto curso\". \n\"Primaria\" starts at six years old, so students usually start 4th grade the year of their tenth birthday. However, there may be eleven years old students because the educational system allows students to repeat a school grade if they do not achieve the passing grade in a specific number of subjects, which varies among each school and the grade that is to be repeated.\n\n"}
{"id": "13149835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13149835", "title": "Frozen zoo", "text": "Frozen zoo\n\nA frozen zoo is a storage facility in which genetic materials taken from animals (e.g. DNA, sperm, eggs, embryos and live tissue) are stored at very low temperatures (−196 °C) in tanks of liquid nitrogen. Material preserved in this way can be stored indefinitely and used for artificial insemination, in vitro fertilisation, embryo transfer, and cloning. Some facilities also collect and cryopreserve plant material (usually seeds). \nThe first frozen zoo was established at the San Diego Zoo by pathologist Kurt Benirschke in 1972. At the time there was no technology available to make use of the collection, but Benirschke believed such technology would be developed in the future. The frozen zoo idea was later supported in Gregory Benford's 1992 paper proposing a Library of Life. Zoos such as the San Diego Zoo and research programs such as the Audubon Center for Research of Endangered Species cryopreserve genetic material in order to protect the diversity of the gene pool of endangered species, or to provide for a prospective reintroduction of such extinct species as the Tasmanian tiger and the mammoth.\n\nGathering material for a frozen zoo is rendered simple by the abundance of sperm in males. Sperm can be taken from an animal following death. The production of eggs, which in females is usually low, can be increased through hormone treatment to obtain 10–20 oocytes, dependent on the species. Some frozen zoos prefer to fertilize eggs and freeze the resulting embryo, as embryos are more resilient under the cryopreservation process. Some centers also collect skin cell samples of endangered animals or extinct species. The Scripps Research Institute has successfully made skin cells into cultures of special cells called induced pluripotent stem cells (IPS cells). It is theoretically possible to make sperm and egg cells from these IPS cells. \n\nThe Frozen Zoo at the San Diego Zoo's Institute for Conservation Research currently stores a collection of 8,400 samples from over 800 species and subspecies. Frozen Zoo at San Diego Zoo Conservation Research has acted as a forbearer to similar projects at other zoos in the United States and Europe. However, there are still less than a dozen frozen zoos worldwide.\n\nAt the United Arab Emirates Breeding Centre for Endangered Arabian Wildlife (BCEAW), Sharjah, the embryos stored include the extremely endangered Gordon’s wildcat (\"Felis silvestris gordoni\") and the Arabian leopard (\"Panthera pardus nimr\") (of which there are only 50 in the wild).\n\nThe Audubon Center for Research of Endangered Species, affiliated with the University of New Orleans, is maintaining a frozen zoo. In 2000 the Center implanted a frozen-thawed embryo from the highly endangered African wildcat into the uterus of a domestic house cat, resulting in a healthy male wildcat.\n\nThe Frozen Ark is a frozen zoo established in 2004 and jointly managed by the Zoological Society of London, the London Natural History Museum, and the University of Nottingham.\n\nThe University of Georgia's Regenerative Bioscience Center is building a frozen zoo. RBC Director Steven Stice and animal and dairy science assistant professor Franklin West created the facility with the thought of saving endangered cat species. The scientists have already extracted cells from a Sumatran tiger, which could be used for artificial insemination. Artificial insemination provides a remedy for animals who, due to anatomical or physiological reasons, are unable to reproduce in the natural way. Reproduction of stored genetic material also allows for the fostering of genetic improvements, and the prevention of inbreeding. Modern technology allows for genetic manipulation in animals without keeping them in captivity. However, the success of their restoration into the wild would require the application of new science and a sufficient amount of previously collected material.\n\n"}
{"id": "7124452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7124452", "title": "Inspektor", "text": "Inspektor\n\nInspektor, Swedish for Inspector, is the largely honorary chairmanship of a student nations in Lund and Uppsala universities in Sweden. The Inspector has a supervisory role his/her nation and presides over most important functions. It is a quite prestigious role to be invited to undertake as it implies the trust and respect of the student community. The inspector may be of either gender and is usually a professor (although any member of the university's teaching staff is acceptable). The position originated in the 17th century as a way for the university administration to keep watch on the student population after both Uppsala and Lund universities realised that they were unable to forbid the nation system outright. \n\nIn many nations, the Inspector is also the chairman of the nation's governing committee. They used to be present at the nation's annual general meeting (known as a \"Landsskap\") as well as other special occasions such as the Newcomer's Feast (\"Novichfest\" or \"Recentiorsgasque\"). Mostly it is the Inspector who makes the speech of honour at the end of each formal dinner in the nation and at the end of each semester he or she ceremonially \"sends the students home\". \n\nInspectors now also exist at some technical colleges, at some other universities and in some Swedish student unions. In the latter, the inspector has some role as a person to whom one may complain about university processes.\n\n"}
{"id": "23968430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23968430", "title": "Institute of Molecular Biotechnology", "text": "Institute of Molecular Biotechnology\n\nThe Institute of Molecular Biotechnology (IMBA) is an independent research organisation founded as a joint initiative of the Austrian Academy of Sciences in cooperation with the pharmaceutical company Boehringer Ingelheim. IMBA operates in close collaboration with the Research Institute of Molecular Pathology, Boehringer's basic research center both located next to each other at the Vienna Biocenter (VBC).\n\nIMBA's research aims to understand the fundamental molecular biological processes and is currently focused on cell biology, RNA interference, and epigenetics.\n\nThe Vienna Drosophila RNAi Center (VDRC) is located at IMBA, and is available to researchers worldwide. It collects an RNAi library of over 22,000 Drosophila strains.\n\nThe Institute of Molecular Biotechnology was founded in 1999 as a joint initiative of the Austrian Academy of Sciences and Boehringer Ingelheim. The Austrian Government and the city of Vienna would also contribute to its funding and in 2002 the geneticist Josef Penninger started as the Scientific Director of IMBA who would recruit Barry Dickson as the first group leader; Dickson became managing director of the neighbouring institute Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) in 2006.\n\nThe construction of the institute started in 2003 and completed in 2006. The institute lies wall-to-wall with the IMP, to enhance collaborations and with whom they share the scientific facilities.\n\nIMBA went on expanding and in 2007 the Vienna Drosophila RNAi Center (VDRC) in collaboration with the IMP is opened.\n\nSince 2007 IMBA has a Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) for decision making chaired by Nobel prize winner Eric Kandel.\n\nBeing a newcomer in the Molecular Biology community, the IMBA has soon received recognition in the form of awards to its researchers and grants for projects. Josef Penninger, the scientific director, has been elected as a full member of The Austrian Academy of Sciences (ÖAW). He has been awarded the Ernst Jung Prize for Medicine by the Jung-Stiftung for Science and Research, the Descartes Prize for Research by the European Commission and has received the Carus-Medal of the German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina. In 2012, Josef Penninger was awarded with the Innovator Award for his project \"Novel Approaches to Breast Cancer Prevention and Inhibition of Metastases\" through the US Department of Defense.\n\nIn 2013 Josef Penninger received his second European Research Council’s (ERC) Advanced Investigator Grant for his research in the field of haploid stem cells.\n\nJürgen Knoblich, deputy scientific director at IMBA, was recognized with the Wittgenstein Award, awarded by the Austrian Ministry of Science.\n\nThe institute has also received support by the European Research Council and Kazufumi Mochizuki has received one of the European Research Council's first \"ERC Starting grants\".\n\nIn collaboration with the incorporated society Dialog Gentechnik, in 2006 IMBA opened the Vienna Open Lab, a hands-on biomolecular laboratory open to the public.\n"}
{"id": "5913123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5913123", "title": "International Accounting Education Standards Board", "text": "International Accounting Education Standards Board\n\nThe International Accounting Education Standards Board (IAESB) is an independent organisation within the fold of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The board develops guidance to improve standards of education in accountancy.\nThe two main areas of focus are the key elements of accreditation and the requirements of accountants for continuing professional education.\nThe board also sponsors studies or papers about accounting education that promote discussion and debate on accounting education and development issues.\n\nMembers of the board may be nominated by IFAC member bodies or by IFAC's Transnational Auditors Committee. \nPublic members may be nominated by member bodies, the TAC, other organizations and the general public.\nThe International Association for Accounting Education & Research (IAAER) has an observer of the board.\nAn IAAER research program funded by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) creates research reports that inform the IAESB.\nThe IAESB is subject to the oversight of the Public Interest Oversight Board (PIOB).\n\nIn January 2010 the IAESB released its Framework for International Education Standards for Professional Accountants.\nThis paper defines the underlying educational concepts of the IAESB standards, describes the IAESB publications, and affirms the obligations of IFAC member bodies relating to accounting education.\nThe IAESB periodically updates standards.\nIn March 2010 the IAESB asked for comments on a proposed revision to the International Education Standard that defined Competence Requirements for Audit Professionals. This is one of the eight standards that address the principles of learning and development for professional accountants.\nThe IAESB strongly encouraged organizations and individuals to comment on proposed revisions.\nIn May 2011 the IAESB released a proposed revision of International Education Standard for Assessment of Professional Competence, requesting comments.\n"}
{"id": "1358634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1358634", "title": "International Astronomical Youth Camp", "text": "International Astronomical Youth Camp\n\nThe International Astronomical Youth Camp (IAYC) is an annual summer camp for young people with an interest in astronomy. Established in 1969, the IAYC has taken place in over 30 different places in Europe, North Africa and the Near East. The main goals of the camp are for participants to have fun collaborating in astronomical explorations, and to bring people together from different regions of the world by encouraging them to work together and learn more about science and its methods. Participants work on astronomical projects in working groups. Since 1969 more than 1500 young people have taken part in the IAYC. Nowadays, between 60 and 75 people participate in each camp.\n\nThe IAYC attracts all kinds of participants: those who enjoy astronomy as a general interest to those make it their job. Some participants have later on gained astronomy related jobs that brought them fame. Examples are Erich Karkoschka, a German astronomer and Govert Schilling, a Dutch science journalist.\n\nRecent camps have seen participants organizing so called \"Preunions\" in advance of the camp. These events are used to get to know each other and see a little bit more of the neighbourhood, as most of the camp will take place in an isolated area.\n\nThroughout the year, many reunions take place. A returning tradition is the so-called \"New Year's Reunion\", which is organized by a participant, anywhere in Europe. Successful reunions have seen more than 30 participants. Recent locations have been England, Hungary, Belgium, Serbia and Macedonia.\n\nAs practical astronomy is mainly carried out during the night, the daily schedule is quite unnormal, as it is moved into a few hours ahead. A typical day is as following:\n\n\nThe participants are divided into groups (for which they apply in advance) that all deal with a specific field of astronomy. They are meant to carry out a project on a topic that has to do with the theme of the working group. The project is to be done individually or in a group of two or three people. It is carried out independently, though with the supervising help of a leader.\n\nThe topics may vary from beginner's work, in which the participant gets introduced to the field of astronomy, to in depth astrophysics and actual research, usually carried out by a more experienced participant. At the end of the camp, the participants write an article about their project. The articles are bundled into a report book that is sent to the participants after the camp.\n\nEvery group has its own leader. The themes of the working groups may differ very much, from theoretical (where the focus is on the mathematical and physical side of astronomy and astrophysics) to practical (where the focus on observational astronomy and the use of telescopes cannot be ignored). This is just a rough explanation, as there have also been groups that fit neither of the two explanations but focus more on background, like ones with a more philosophical character. The theme of the group depends very much on the leader attached to it and his/her background.\n\nBesides the working group leaders, three other leaders are also included in the leader team. The \"general coordinator\" takes care of supervision and is the contact person. The \"NAP-leader\" organises the Non-Astronomical Program, which is described later on in this article. The \"Darkroom leader\" is responsible for the photography in the camp. He or she also runs a darkroom in which black and white photographs are developed (mainly astronomical photographs).\n\nDuring the free time, the participants are totally free to do whatever they want. Many use this opportunity to organize a workshop, in which they can share their passions with other participants. A returning workshop is on the use of a telescope. Also (sports) competitions are organized during the free time.\n\nThe Non-Astronomical Program (NAP) is held daily in order to give the participants the opportunity to relax and to get to know each other better. NAP has its own leader that supervises the games and activities, of which many have become traditions in the IAYC. There are a few special NAP's:\n\n\nDuring the night, many participants try to enjoy the beauty of the night sky as much as possible, as long as the weather allows them. Practical working groups try to run their projects with the use of telescopes and other devices, which are all carried to the observation field. Also participants from other working groups join: sleeping under the night sky is something very special.\n\nSpecial moments on which many people like to go to the observation field include the peak of the Perseid showers, on the 11th of August, should the camp be taking place at that time. If the weather is too bad, however, most participants attend one of the many parties, organized throughout the camp.\n\nThere are two special days in the camp, namely the following:\n\n\nThe organization behind the IAYC is called \"The International Workshop for Astronomy\". It is responsible for the camp and consists of the leaders, who all do this on a voluntarily basis.\n\nThe first IAYC's were all held in Germany and its bordering countries. Later on, also other countries were visited. In the late 1970s even camps were held in the Near East and North Africa). As of the 1980s, the focus lay on Europe again. An important condition for the choice of a location has always been that it is as far from centres of population as possible such that observations can be performed free from light pollution.\n\nSince 2002 the IAYC has been held Germany and the Czech and Slovak republics. The number of participants has changed over the years. In the first year, just more than 40 people attended the camp. In 1999, in which the solar eclipse of that summer was a major event, 99 people participated, excluding former participants of previous camps who joined for a one-week old-oldies special reunion. In recent years the number of participants (including leaders) has remained stable around 60-75.\n\nThe 42nd (July 16 - August 5, 2006), the 43rd (July 29 - August 18, 2007) and the 47th (July 17 - August 6, 2011) IAYC took place in Třemešek, Czech Republic. However, having three camps taking place in the same place in three consecutive years is exceptional.\n\nThe 44th camp took place in Sayda, in the German federal state of Saxony from 20 July until 9 August 2008, the site of the 33rd (1997) and 40th (2004) camps.\nThe 45th camp was held in Hala Miziowa (Poland).\n\nThe IAYC is not the only youth camp that focusses on astronomy. In Germany the Astronomische Abenteuer Camp (AAC; Astronomical Adventure Camp) is held annually around Easter and the Astronomische SommerLager (ASL; Astronomical Summer Camp) is held yearly in the summer. In The Netherlands, the Youngsters Working Group for Astronomy organizes several youth camps every year. Several Slovenian astronomical associations organize MART (Youth astronomy research camp) together. It is held in August in Slovenia. Youths from neighbour countries participate too because the camp is very well known in the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "47866193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47866193", "title": "JEI Learning", "text": "JEI Learning\n\nJEI Learning Center is an individualized, supplemental education franchise. A low student-to-teacher ratio allows only 5 students per instructor, ensuring that each student receives enough personal attention. The curriculum offers JEI Self-Learning Method, a self-paced, individualized program designed to help pre-kindergarten to 9th grade students in learning math and language concepts step-by-step, aligned with Common Core State Standards. JEI Learning Center provides a diagnostic test and track record system that pinpoints fundamental strengths and weaknesses in subject comprehension. Using these results, specialized workbooks are assigned that focus on a scientific study method to address each student’s needs. \n\nEstablished in 1977 by educator and entrepreneur, Sung Hoon Park, JEI Learning Center was founded in Seoul, Korea. Sung Hoon Park and a team of education researchers developed the JEI Self Learning Method, an individually paced, step-by-step learning program, for students who need supplementary education in mathematics and language concepts.\nAfter decades of successful operation in South Korea, in 1992, Sung Hoon Park brought the JEI Method to the United States, followed by Canada, UAE, Hong Kong, China, Australia, and New Zealand, consisting of over 500 locations worldwide.\n\nJEI Math offers a comprehensive program for pre-K through 9th grade. There are approximately 36 weekly workbooks per grade level, and each weekly workbook consists of 32 pages. At the end of each weekly workbook is an interim test. JEI Math curriculum is aligned with Common Core State Standards.\n\nJEI English is designed to build a strong foundation in grammar, vocabulary, and reading skills. Curriculum is aligned to the National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE) Standards.\n\nJEI Reading & Writing is a literature-based program focused on comprehension as well as writing. Accompanied with full novel reading list, the curriculum is targeted for advanced level students or for those needing an extra challenge.\n\nJEI Problem Solving Math develops critical and analytical skills, with math problems presented in styles similar to those found in Math Olympiad. Curriculum focuses on word problems and critical thinking-related questions.\n\nJEI's diagnostic system comprehensively analyzes each student's test results and assigns them an individualized learning program. JEI Learning Center provides the Individual Progress Prescription Report (IPPR), a detailed computer analysis of a student's learning needs and performance during the curriculum. \n\nIn 2014, Entrepreneur (magazine) and Business Insider ranked JEI Learning Center #191 in the Franchise 500® and #119 in America's Top Global. In 2015, JEI Learning Center ranked #198 in the Franchise 500® and #45 in America's Top Global.\n\n"}
{"id": "34710642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34710642", "title": "James McCarthy (sociologist)", "text": "James McCarthy (sociologist)\n\nJames F. McCarthy (born 1949) is a sociologist and former president of Suffolk University in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nMcCarthy received an A.B. in sociology from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Massachusetts in 1971, an M.A. in sociology from Indiana University in 1972, and a Ph.D. in sociology from Princeton University in 1977. McCarthy served as a professor and dean of the School of Health and Human Services at the University of New Hampshire, and has taught courses in public health and sociology at Columbia University and the Johns Hopkins University. His academic expertise is demography and adolescent and reproductive health. From 2007 to 2012 McCarthy served as provost and senior vice president for academic affairs at the City University of New York's Baruch College, McCarthy was selected as the president of Suffolk University in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "32056116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32056116", "title": "Jane Williams (missionary)", "text": "Jane Williams (missionary)\n\nJane Williams, born Jane Nelson (born: 1801?, Nottingham - died: 6 October 1896, Napier), was a pioneering educator in New Zealand. Together with her sister-in-law Marianne Williams she established schools for Māori children and adults. She also educated the children of the Church Missionary Society in the Bay of Islands, New Zealand.\n\nJane was baptised on 29 April 1801. She was the daughter of James Nelson and his wife, Anna Maria Dale of Newark-on-Trent, Nottinghamshire.\n\nIn 1817 Jane became a teacher at the school for girls in Southwell, Nottinghamshire run by Mary Williams, mother of Henry and William Williams who were both members of the Church Missionary Society (CMS). In 1822 Henry Williams and his wife Marianne Williams sailed to New Zealand, to join the CMS mission in the Bay of Islands. William Williams intended to follow his brother after completing his training. On 11 July 1825, Jane married William Williams. On 12 August William and Jane embarked on the \"Sir George Osborne\" to sail to Sydney, Australia, then on to Paihia, Bay of Islands, where they arrived on 25 March 1826.\n\nJane and her husband had nine children:\n\nJane Williams and her sister-in-law, Marianne Williams, shared mission responsibilities and together cared for and educated their families. They set up a boarding school for Māori girls in Paihia and provided classes to the children of CMS missionaries in the morning with schools for Māori children and adults in the afternoon.\n\nIn 1835 William and Jane moved to the Te Waimate mission where she conducted the school for girls and her husband conducted the school boys in addition to as his work on translating the Bible into Māori. On 23 and 24 December 1835 Charles Darwin visited while \"HMS Beagle\" spent 10 days in the Bay of Islands.\n\nWilliam and Jane and their family arrived at Turanga, Poverty Bay on 20 January 1840. Jane Williams ran the mission during her husband's frequent journeys conducting the work of the mission. They left Waerenga-a-Hika in Poverty Bay in 1865 when it was threatened by a band of Pai Mārire (Hauhau) and returned to Paihia for two years.\n\nHawkes Bay was added to the Waiapu diocese and Archdeacon Williams, Jane Williams and their daughters moved to Napier in May 1867. William Williams was consecrated as the Bishop of Waiapu on 3 April 1859 at the meeting of the General Synod at Wellington. Jane and three of her daughters were involved in establishing a school for Māori girls, which became Hukarere Girls' College that opened in July 1875 on Hukarere Road, Napier. Anna Maria Williams, known as 'Miss Maria', as the superintendent of the school, kept the accounts, managed the correspondence and taught English and the Scriptures. She was assisted by her sisters, Lydia Catherine ('Miss Kate') and Marianne ('Miss Mary Anne').\n\nJane Williams died on 6 October 1896. Her obituary said: \"The treasure William Williams brought to these shores was that bright, intelligent, courageous and cheerful soul.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17384927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17384927", "title": "Jo Riley", "text": "Jo Riley\n\nJosephine Riley is a British writer, translator, theatre actor, and schoolteacher. Dr. Riley has written and translated several books about theatre arts, especially Chinese theatre. She currently teaches film and drama at Munich International School in Germany.\n\nRiley reads, writes, and speaks Mandarin Chinese, and is better known for having in the early 1980s widely traveled in China and learned to act in the Chinese theatre as one of the first foreign students at the Central Academy of Drama in Beijing, eventually writing \"Chinese Theatre and the Actor in Performance\" (1997, Cambridge University Press), a reference book that \"gives an 'inside' view of Chinese theatre and the actor in performance for the first time [...] from her personal observations of, and dialogue with, Chinese actors and her first-hand experiences of the theatre world of China in general, none of which was possible before 1980.\" She also made the first English translation of \"The Other Shore\" by Nobel Laureate in Literature playwright Gao Xingjian.\n\nJo Riley graduated from the University of Cambridge. After working for a number of small touring companies, she went to Asia to explore a different kind of theatre. In the early 1980s, after learning Mandarin Chinese, she was one of the first foreign students at the Central Academy of Drama in Beijing, where she learned to act in the Chinese theatre (\"example pictured at right\").\n\nShe has since then helped teach and direct traditional Chinese theatre in Salzburg, Mainz, and Bayreuth. She's also been at intercultural workshops with Cardiff Laboratory Theatre and Pan Projects at Goldsmiths College, London. In addition, she has written articles and books on Chinese theatre, especially \"Chinese Theatre and the Actor in Performance\" (1997, see Works section), and has edited or translated several plays or books on European and intercultural theatre.\n\nShe currently teaches drama at Munich International School in Germany.\n\nIn 1997, Cambridge University Press published Riley's \"Chinese Theatre and the Actor in Performance\", a book often cited on the topic of Chinese theatre. It covers not only \"jingju\" (Beijing opera or Peking opera, \"example pictured at right\") but also Chinese puppet theatre and shadow play, as well as Chinese exorcism and ancient animation rites at the tomb, to explore how the Chinese create presence on a stage. In a 1999 review for the \"Asian Theatre Journal\", China specialist Prof. Colin Mackerras (author of \"The Cambridge Handbook of Contemporary China\", brother of Malcolm Mackerras) noted how the book \"looks at the skills of the Chinese actor from the insider's point of view – not that of the Westerner or the student of China.\" Indeed:\n\nRiley also made, under the title \"The Other Side\" (1997), the first English translation of the controversial play \"The Other Shore\" (1986) by Nobel Laureate in Literature playwright Gao Xingjian.\n\nEdited or co-edited publications include:\n\nPublications include:\n\nTranslations include:\n\nMain sources used for this article:\n"}
{"id": "26655745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26655745", "title": "Journal of Business Ethics Education", "text": "Journal of Business Ethics Education\n\nThe Journal of Business Ethics Education is a peer-reviewed academic journal that examines the particular challenges facing business ethics educators. It publishes articles, case studies, and reviews intended to help instructors do a better job in the classroom. Established in 2004, the journal is edited by John Hooker at Carnegie Mellon University, and published by NeilsonJournals Publishing in print and electronic formats. The journal is also available online from the Philosophy Documentation Center.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44464787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44464787", "title": "Metro Toronto Elementary Teacher's strike", "text": "Metro Toronto Elementary Teacher's strike\n\nThe Metro Toronto Elementary Teacher's strike was a month-long labour dispute that saw nearly 10,000 elementary teachers in Metro Toronto, Ontario, Canada, walk off the job in a bid to achieve more preparation time. The strike ran from 21 September to 18 October 1987.\n"}
{"id": "25910634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25910634", "title": "Mission laïque française", "text": "Mission laïque française\n\nThe Mission laïque française (MLF), or \"French lay (or secular) mission\", is a non-profit organisation founded in 1902 by Pierre Deschamps. This organisation works to spread the French language and culture by creating and running schools outside France. Its head office is in the 15th arrondissement of Paris.\n\nBy the end of 2016, the MLF was running schools in 47 different countries: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, China, Côte d’Ivoire, DR of the Congo, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, Greece, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraqi Kurdistan, Italy, Kazakhstan, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Nigeria, Norway, Palestine, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, South Korea, Spain, Syria, Turkmenistan, UAE, the United Kingdom, the United States, Uzbekistan Venezuela, and Yemen.\n\nThe 108 schools are divided into two networks: traditional schools and schools in joint ventures with big French companies such as Total S.A., Areva, Airbus and Bouygues.\n"}
{"id": "2092836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2092836", "title": "National Association of Independent Schools", "text": "National Association of Independent Schools\n\nThe National Association of Independent Schools (NAIS) is a U.S.-based membership organization for private, nonprofit, K-12 schools. Founded in 1963, NAIS represents independent schools and associations in the United States, including day, boarding, and day/boarding schools; elementary and secondary schools; boys', girls', and coeducational schools. NAIS has affiliate members internationally as well.\n\nNAIS's mission is to be the national voice of independent schools and the center for collective action on their behalf.\n\nAs of the 2010-11 school year, NAIS represented approximately 1,400 member independent schools and associations in the US, serving more than 562,000 students and 121,000 teachers, administrators, and other staff.\n\nMembership in NAIS is open to independent pre-college schools that are operated by nonprofit organizations. To become a full member of NAIS, a school must have operated for at least five years and must be accredited by an accrediting organization approved by NAIS.\n\nIn response to requests from several state, regional, and national accrediting organizations, the NAIS Commission on Accreditation was established by the NAIS Board of Trustees in 2001 and convened for the first time in 2002. The 19 member Commission’s work is intended to assure the quality of independent school accrediting programs.\n\nA primary responsibility of the Commission is to developing a public understanding of, and credibility for, state and regional accrediting programs. In addition, the Commission,\n\n\nThe Commission meets on a regular basis and is guided by established operating protocols. It is composed of members from state and regional accrediting associations that are members of NAIS was well as at-large members, and NAIS Board members.\n\nThe member associations of the Commission are accountable to one another through a process patterned on the independent school accreditation model. Over the course of a 10-year cycle, associations prepare a self-study demonstrating compliance with the Criteria for Effective Independent School Accreditation Practices. The criteria provide common ground for member associations by delineating best practices, policies, and procedures. In addition, associations use the Model Core Standards — a set of “ideal” standards — in assessing their own standards. As part of the process of “accrediting the accreditors”, each member association hosts a visit from other Commissioners, receives written recommendations from the Commission, and engages in follow-up activities designed to improve the state or regional accreditation process. As with school accreditation, this will serve two purposes: institutional improvement and quality assurance.\n\nEach member associations must be determined to be in compliance with the following:\n\n\nThe following are state, regional, and international accrediting organizations that are members of the NAIS Commission on Accreditation:\n\nState Accrediting Associations\n\nRegional, National and International Accrediting Associations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15145201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15145201", "title": "National Testing Service", "text": "National Testing Service\n\nNational Testing Service - Pakistan (NTS) is an organization in Pakistan that administers academic performance evaluation tests. It is similar to Educational Testing Service (ETS) in the United States. NTS offers two main types of tests, the \"National Aptitude Test\" (NAT) and the \"Graduate Assessment Test\" (GAT). NAT is aimed at students seeking admission to colleges and universities. GAT is aimed at graduates seeking admission to postgraduate education. NTS exams are also used to determine qualifications of students seeking advanced study abroad.\n\nNTS is a Member of the International Association for Educational Assessment. It is also recognized by the Higher Education Commission. The NTS was developed to ensure quality educational standards in Pakistan and to \"provide a national scale for comparative grading between institutes\", consolidating examination boards under one administrating body. According to Shahid Siddiqui, director of The Centre for Humanities and Social Sciences at the Lahore School of Economics, tests implemented prior to the development of the NTS were criticized as not accommodating socio-cultural differences, resulting in a need for \"an indigenous testing service that should design and develop testing materials within an indigenous context\". Prominent Pakistani institutions like COMSATS University (CU), Bahauddin Zakariya University (BZU), Balochistan University of Information Technology, Engineering and Management Sciences (BUITEMS), Center for Advanced Studies in Engineering (CASE) and The Islamia University of Bahawalpur (IUB) have made it compulsory for students seeking admission to have cleared tests conducted by NTS.\n\nControversy erupted in 2007 following the mandating of NTS testing, first announced by Khalid Maqbool, Governor of Punjab, with regards to admission to universities and later set aside by the government unless the laws regarding university admission were amended. Criticism included allegations that the services were inconvenient to access and prohibitively expensive to economically challenged students. Maqbool called for input from the vice-chancellors of Punjab's public universities on 4 June. That year, each university department was permitted to set its own entrance requirements, with six of 64 departments at Punjab University electing to utilize tests from NTS. In October 2007, the vice-chancellor of Punjab University, Muhammad Arif Butt, endorsed the use of NTS testing in all departments of the university. NTS director Haroon Rasheed said that no tuition centres are associated with the service and NTS exams will not be out of course.\n\nIn 2016 the Pakistan Bar Council amended the Legal Practitioners and Bar Councils Rules 1976 pertaining to admission of new advocates to the provincial Bar Councils. The new rules required applicants to sit and pass the Law Graduate Assessment Test (Law GAT) conducted by National Testing Service.\n\nNTS has sought to establish a national educational standard for Pakistan but at the same time as an organization cannot and has not catered to the regionally diverse Pakistani nation. NTS resources are geographically restricted and both quantitatively and qualitatively limited. As stated by interface - an educational consultancy. Its contention as an independent NGO can also be challenged as it is affiliated with numerous regular testing centers of Comsats (as semi-Government body or inter-Governmental organization) & Public / Governmental education Institutions for their entrance / admission exams. \nA recent controversy of regular operational error has also arisen for Phd. assessment tests. The credibility / irresponsibility on the part of NTS officials has disqualified the candidates from applying in MPhil/PhD programs at public and private sector institutes because under HEC rules, they do not have any proof of clearing the test.\nThe overall process lacks credibility & transparency due to the un-disclosed nature of alternative processes for any participants, when they do not fall in the norms of the operating procedure (i.e. errors / loop holes) due to complexities that arise from multifarious of socioeconomic nature of challenges in present-day environment of Pakistan.\nUnfortunately, the NTS management have even been caught and identified as plagiarizing test questions and are indirectly controlled by Higher Education Commission of Pakistan (HEC).\n"}
{"id": "23605053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23605053", "title": "North Star Self-Directed Learning for Teens", "text": "North Star Self-Directed Learning for Teens\n\nNorth Star: Self Directed Learning for Teens is a self-directed learning center in Sunderland, Massachusetts, founded in 1996. North Star's mission is to help teenagers find ways to learn and excel outside of traditional middle school and high school. It offers a noncoercive learning environment without required classes, grades, or tests. Members range in age from 11 to 19 years old. Both previously-schooled teens and long-time homeschoolers attend the center. As of 2015, North Star has over 60 members and over 500 alumni from all over the Pioneer Valley and beyond.\n\nNorth Star was founded by two Massachusetts middle school teachers who were frustrated with a system that forced students to attend their classes. In contrast, North Star supports teenagers to self-direct their own education, offering a program of optional classes, tutoring, trips and community events, taught and organized by North Star's professional staff and an extensive network of volunteers. Each North Star member is paired with an advisor who supports and encourages the teen as they transition to self-directed learning. The center is funded through sliding-scale tuition and donations.\n\nNorth Star was founded as Pathfinder Learning Center by Kenneth Danford and Joshua Hornick in 1996. After reading Grace Llewellyn's book \"The Teenage Liberation Handbook\" they both quit their jobs as middle school teachers to create a center that would make what Llewellyn described possible for teenagers in their area.\n\nIn 2002, the center was renamed North Star: Self-Directed Learning for Teens, and in 2007 the center moved into the historic Russell Street School building in Hadley, Massachusetts.\n\nIn June, 2015, North Star moved to Sunderland due to safety concerns with the Russell Street building.\n\nUsing homeschooling as a tool to get out of school, North Star works personally with each teen and their family to create an educational plan that is supported by North Star's staff and teachers. This customized plan consists of a staff adviser, parent conferences, and classes, tutorials, workshops, or tutoring if desired and available. North Star works with every interested family, regardless of ability to pay tuition or fees.\n\nClasses, tutorials, and workshops are taught by staff members, volunteers, or college students through work-study. Classes are scheduled Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday, and the center is closed on Wednesdays and weekends. Attendance is non-compulsory and there are no required classes.\n\nSince 2010, a number of self-directed learning centers have opened in both the United States and Canada, using the approach and program pioneered by North Star. The centers are part of the Liberated Learners network which supports people to create centers based on the North Star model.\n\n"}
{"id": "31839573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31839573", "title": "Preparedness 101: Zombie Apocalypse", "text": "Preparedness 101: Zombie Apocalypse\n\n\"Preparedness 101: Zombie Apocalypse\" is a blog post by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) that uses a zombie apocalypse metaphor to raise public awareness of emergency preparedness. In a blog post titled \"Preparedness 101: Zombie Apocalypse\", the director of the CDC's Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response, Rear Admiral Ali S. Khan writes: \"Take a zombie apocalypse for example. That's right, I said z-o-m-b-i-e a-p-o-c-a-l-y-p-s-e. You may laugh now, but when it happens you'll be happy you read this, and hey, maybe you'll even learn a thing or two about how to prepare for a real emergency.\" Comparing the upcoming hurricane season and possible pandemics to \"flesh-eating zombies\" from the horror film \"Night of the Living Dead\" and the video game series \"Resident Evil\", Khan recommends Americans prepare for natural disasters as they would have prepared for \"ravenous monsters\".\n\nA week before the zombie apocalypse post, members of the CDC group responsible for preparedness of the public for natural disasters and pandemics were working on the message anticipating the 2011 hurricane season. Dave Daigle, associate director for communications, admitted that, \"preparedness and public health are not the sexiest subjects.\" Someone in the group remembered a tweet about zombies in connection to the nuclear disaster in Japan resulting from the Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. This provided the idea for the upcoming CDC post, implemented on May 18, 2011 along with two tweets. \"The whole idea was, if you're prepared for a zombie apocalypse, you're prepared for pretty much anything,\" said Drew RN.\n\nThe CDC's blog post included precautionary tips about zombies along with its usual tips for preparing an emergency kit, as well as emergency escape routes in case of an earthquake or hurricane. For example, after explaining how the public should be prepared \"if zombies started appearing outside your doorstep\", it continues: \"You can also implement this plan if there is a flood, earthquake, or other emergency.\" \n\nSome commentators noted that May 21, 2011, the date predicted by Harold Camping as the beginning of the end-times, was several days after the blog post, though there was no mention of this speculation in the post itself.\n\nThe blog post generated Internet traffic that eventually crashed the CDC website. Usually, CDC blog posts get traffic between 1,000 and 3,000 hits per week. 30,000 hits were reported by the evening of May 18. The post, oriented at \"a young, media-savvy demographic\", was read by so many that \"by Thursday, it was a trending topic on Twitter\". Initially the tweet with the tagline \"If you're ready for a zombie apocalypse, then you're ready for any emergency\" got 12,000 followers; overnight the number of followers increased to 1.2 million, or 100 times the initial number. Mr. Daigle said that the number of the followers of the CDC's zombie apocalypse tweets was comparable to the number of followers of the wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton: \"We were trending yesterday! Things like the Royal Wedding trend. Not the CDC.\"\n\nRobert Pestronk, executive director of the National Association of County and City Health Officials agreed that \"The 'Zombie Apocalypse' scenario was a great way of getting information out so people can understand the need for preparedness.\"\n\nDaigle said people were visiting the CDC's blog and following CDC tweets because they were mostly interested in zombies and were asking what weapons the agency would recommend to fight zombies. Khan's response to this inquiry was, \"remember, we're a public-health center, so we're not going to recommend weapons. We'll leave that to the law-enforcement folks.\" Chris Good from \"The Atlantic\" saw the absence of weapons recommendations (albeit, tongue-in-cheek) as a \"downside to the CDC's warning\" and wrote: \"If a zombie apocalypse does happen—and this is important—do not follow the CDC's guidelines as your only course of action. The CDC zombie plan includes no mention of shotguns, torches, hot-wiring cars, seeking high ground, traveling at night vs. day, or really any worthwhile strategy for keeping zombies out of your house. Parts of it are good, but it probably would serve the public better in the event of, for instance, a hurricane.\"\n\nOthers were concerned about taxpayer money being used for the CDC's budget; the CDC assured the public there was no additional cost for their zombie apocalypse blog post.\n\nBill Gentry with the UNC-Chapel Hill School of Public Health said that the CDC deserves credit for trying something different, \"but that doesn't mean the agency should start using vampires to promote vaccinations or space aliens to warn about the dangers of smoking.\"\n\nThe CDC announced a contest for the most creative and effective videos covering preparedness for a zombie apocalypse or apocalypse of any kind. \nIn this video contest, the CDC challenged contestants to upload videos to YouTube demonstrating how they are preparing for emergency situations such as floods, earthquakes, hurricanes and zombie attacks.\n\nIn October 2011, the CDC published a \"Zombie Pandemic\" graphic novella created by fantasy artist Bob Hobbs (layouts, pencils and inks), Alissa Eckert (coloring) and Mark Conner (lettering, assembly).\n\nThe CDC is planning to run a survey to find out how many of the blog's readers actually followed the tips and made recommended preparations for natural disasters, zombie attacks and other emergency situations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2362638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2362638", "title": "Princes' School", "text": "Princes' School\n\nThe Princes' School in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, was established by King Ibn Saud specifically to ensure a high level of education for members of the House of Saud and sons of other foremost Saudis. Early in the Ibn Saud newly established country the Council of Senior Scholars or ulema thought education should only involve studying the Qur'an and shari'a law. The school was only conducted within Royal court.\n\n"}
{"id": "12671878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12671878", "title": "RECSAM", "text": "RECSAM\n\nThe Regional Centre for Education in Science and Mathematics (RECSAM) is a multinational educational corporation headquartered in Penang, Malaysia. It is one of the founding sister centres of SEAMEO, the Southeast Asian Ministers of Education Organisation. SEAMEO was established on 30 November 1965 as a chartered international organisation whose purpose is to promote co-operation in education, science and culture in the Southeast Asian region.\n\nSince its inception in 1967, RECSAM has assisted in the principal development of educational manpower and served as a catalyst for the advancement of science and mathematics education at the primary and secondary school levels for its member countries, namely: Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao Peoples' Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Timor Leste and Vietnam. RECSAM has also been offering teachers and educators training opportunities to improve their skills and make them more adaptable to the changing educational environment.\n\nTo date, well over six thousand teachers and key educators have taken the Centre’s regular courses.\n\nDevelopment of skills and knowledge of key teachers and educators of the Southeast Asia has been the core business of RECSAM. The Centre will continuously conduct regular courses for participants coming from 10 SEAMEO member countries. From FY2006/2007 the Centre hopes to receive participants from Timor Leste, a newly independent country who has joined SEAMEO. The Centre will conduct 27 regular courses in the coming three years. Each course will be of 4 week duration. The proposed training courses for the next three fiscal years are extracted from RECSAM's 8th Five Year Plan (FY 2005/2006 – 2009/2010). The topics and outlines of these projects have been identified through an elaborate process of reviewing current and future trends in science and mathematics education, the needs of SEAMEO Member Countries and prioritising them according to their importance.\n\nBesides regular courses, the Centre conducts in-country courses whereby the professionals from the Centre will train participants from the respective countries at their own country.\n\nRECSAM started this programme in 2006 with Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia and the first batch of participants was from Bandung, Indonesia. This programme, a Post Graduate Certificate of Education in ICT leading to a Master of Education in IT & Resource, takes 11 months to complete. This programme will be a twinned programme with Deakin University in Australia.\n\nIn 2005, a group of 5 Kenyan educators participated in our regular course as fee paying participants. Since the course was observed to be very relevant to them, the Centre was requested by JICA, the sponsor, to conduct more courses for the Kenyan. A contract with JICA has been signed to train the Kenyan educators for the next three years. In 2006, the Centre received 40 Kenyan educators to attend the customised courses. More customised course will be conducted if there is demand from local, regional and international participants. In 2007, another 40 Kenyan educators to attend customised courses for Math & Science at the Center. However, for the Ugandans, a customised course was held for the Science group. In the beginning of 2008, participants from Aceh, Indonesia were here.\n\nThe Centre recognises that research and development is a critical area that needs to be addressed to enhance the quality and relevance of its training programmes. Research and Development Division undertakes various programmes and activities which are focused on Conduct of Research, Development of Resources, Dissemination and Review and Evaluation.\n\nAt most, two researches will be conducted a year which will include a classroom-based research and a long range research which may focus on policy formulation or towards the enhancement of teaching and learning of science and mathematics and integration of ICT. The possible research\ntopics are clustered along the following major areas:-\n\nTo further enhance the relevance of its programme, RECSAM has also taken the initiative to promote Research and Development activities among students and also to encourage the setting up of Research and Development centres in the schools. Fourteen schools around Penang have been chosen to be partner schools in this programme. The MoU has been signed with the Education Department of Penang witnessed by the Principals, Headmasters or representatives of the respective schools.\n\nThe theme song of the anniversary was titled SEAMEO RECSAM, composed by Ahmad Ramli with lyrics written by \"'Dr. Azian Abdullah\"\n\n"}
{"id": "17808461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17808461", "title": "Raman Science Centre", "text": "Raman Science Centre\n\nThe Raman Science Centre and Raman Planetarium Complex at Nagpur is an interactive science centre affiliated with Mumbai's Nehru Science Centre. The centre was developed to promote a scientific attitude, portray the growth of science and technology and their applications in industry and human welfare, and hold science exhibits. The centre is named after famous Nobel Prize winner Indian physicist Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman.\nThe Raman Science Centre was inaugurated on 7 March 1992 and the planetarium was started on 5 January 1997. The centre is located opposite Gandhi Sagar Lake in the heart of Nagpur. Between 1 April 2014 and 31 March 2015 the Centre recorded a visitor count of 582,962. The centre is part of the National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), India which is also the largest network of science centres/museums under a single administrative umbrella in the world. NCSM rates the centre as regional level and it has a total floor area of 4333 sq meters.\nThe centre carries out numerous programs to spread science and technology knowledge amongst the general public. The centre has started innovation centre from 14 February 2017, that gives opportunities to students, who are dedicated to science. The centre along with local NGO Hirwai gives the \"Green Finger Award\" to create awareness about the environment amongst school children. In August 2007, the information and communication technology gallery was opened where ISRO Chairman Madhavan Nair declared that India will send astronauts in space by 2015. The centre currently has 4 different interactive galleries, an Innovation Centre, a Science on a Sphere Show and a 133-seat planetarium, fun science, a prehistoric Animal Park and more. The centre also holds science lectures, science film shows and 3-dimensional science shows. The centre also organises activities like planet watching and other celestial phenomena for citizens.\n\nSchedule of the science centre\n\nCharges\n"}
{"id": "40556829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40556829", "title": "Secondary School Mathematics Curriculum Improvement Study", "text": "Secondary School Mathematics Curriculum Improvement Study\n\nThe Secondary School Mathematics Curriculum Improvement Study (SSMCIS) was the name of an American mathematics education program that stood for both the name of a curriculum and the name of the project that was responsible for developing curriculum materials. It is considered part of the second round of initiatives in the \"New Math\" movement of the 1960s. The program was led by Howard F. Fehr, a professor at Columbia University Teachers College.\n\nThe program's signature goal was to create a unified treatment of mathematics and eliminate the traditional separate per-year studies of algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and so forth, that was typical of American secondary schools. Instead, the treatment unified those branches by studying fundamental concepts such as sets, relations, operations, and mappings, and fundamental structures such as groups, rings, fields, and vector spaces. The SSMCIS program produced six courses' worth of class material, intended for grades 7 through 12, in textbooks called Unified Modern Mathematics. Some 25,000 students took SSMCIS courses nationwide during the late 1960s and early 1970s.\n\nThe program was led by Howard F. Fehr, a professor at Columbia University Teachers College who was internationally known and had published numerous mathematics textbooks and hundreds of articles about mathematics teaching. In 1961 he had been the principal author of the 246-page report \"New Thinking in School Mathematics\", which held that traditional teaching of mathematics approaches did not meet the needs of the new technical society being entered into or of the current language of mathematicians and scientists. Fehr considered the separation of mathematical study into separate years of distinct subjects to be an American failing that followed an educational model two hundred years old.\n\nThe new curriculum was inspired by the seminar reports from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in the early 1960s and by the Cambridge Conference on School Mathematics (1963), which also inspired the Comprehensive School Mathematics Program. There were some interactions among these initiatives in the early stages, and the development of SSMCIS was part of a general wave of cooperation in the mathematics education reform movement between Europe and the U.S.\n\nWork on the SSMCIS program began in 1965 and took place mainly at Teachers College. Fehr was the director of the project from 1965 to 1973. The principal consultants in the initial stages and subsequent yearly planning sessions were Marshall H. Stone of the University of Chicago, Albert W. Tucker of Princeton University, Edgar Lorch of Columbia University, and Meyer Jordan of Brooklyn College. The program was targeted at the junior high and high school level and the 15–20 percent best students in a grade.\n\nFunding for the initiative began with the U.S. Office of Education and covered the development first three courses produced; the last three courses produced, as well as teacher training, were funded by the National Science Foundation and by Teachers College itself. The scope and sequence of the curriculum was developed by eighteen mathematicians from the U.S. and Europe in 1966 and subsequently refined in experimental course material by mathematical educators with high school level teaching experience. By 1971, some thirty-eight contributors to course materials were identified, eight from Teachers College, four from Europe, one from Canada, and the rest from various other universities (and a couple of high schools) in the United States. Fehr did not do much curriculum development himself, but rather recruited and led the others and organized the whole process. Graduate students from the Department of Mathematical Education at Teachers College also served each year in various capacities on the SSMCIS program.\n\nThe central idea of the program was to organize mathematics not by algebra, geometry, etc., but rather to unify those branches by studying the fundamental concepts of sets, relations, operations, and mappings, and fundamental structures such as groups, rings, fields, and vector spaces. Other terms used for this approach included \"global\" or \"integrated\"; Fehr himself spoke of a \"spiral\" or \"helical\" development, and wrote of \"the spirit of global organization that is at the heart of the SSMCIS curriculum – important mathematical systems unified by a core of fundamental concepts and structures common to all.\n\nFor example, as the courses progressed, the concept of mappings were used to describe, and visually illustrate, the traditionally disparate topics of translation, line reflection, probability of an event, trigonometric functions, isomorphism and complex numbers, and analysis and linear mappings. Traditional subjects were broken up, such that the course material for each year included some material related to algebra, some to geometry, and so forth.\n\nEven when abstract concepts were being introduced, they were introduced in concrete, intuitive forms, especially at the younger levels. Logical proofs were introduced early on and built in importance as the years developed. At least one year of university-level mathematics education was incorporated into the later courses. Solving traditional applications problems was de-emphasized, especially in the earlier courses, but the intent of the project was to make up for that with its focus on real numbers in measurements, computer programming, and probability and statistics. In particular, the last of these was a pronounced element of SSMCIS, with substantial material on it present in all six courses, from measures of statistical dispersion to combinatorics to Bayes' theorem and more.\n\nThe curriculum that SSMCIS devised had influences from earlier reform work in Europe, going back to the Bourbaki group's work in France in the 1930s and the \"Synopses for Modern Secondary School Mathematics\" published in Paris in 1961. Indeed, most European secondary schools were teaching a more integrated approach. Also, this was one of several American efforts to address a particularly controversial issue, the teaching of a full year of Euclidean geometry in secondary school. Like many of the others, it did this by teaching geometric transformations as a unifying approach between algebra and geometry. \n\nRegardless of all these influences and other projects, the SSMCIS study group considered its work unique in scope and breadth, and Fehr wrote that \"nowhere [else] had a total 7–12 unified mathematics program been designed, produced, and tested.\" It was thus considered one of the more radical of the reform efforts lumped under the \"New Math\" label. Moreover, Fehr believed that the SSMCIS could not just improve students' thinking in mathematics, but in all subjects, by \"develop[ing] the capacity of the human mind for the observation, selection, generalization, abstraction, and construction of models for use in the other disciplines.\"\n\nThe course books put out by SSMCIS were titled \"Unified Modern Mathematics\", and labeled as Course I through Course VI, with the two volumes in each year labeled as Part I and Part II. Materials for the next year's course were prepared each year, thus keeping up with the early adoption programs underway. Using largely formative evaluation methods for gaining teacher feedback, revised versions were put out after the first year's teaching experience. By 1973, the revised version of all six courses had been completed. The first three volumes were put into the public domain for any organization to use.\n\nThe pages of the books were formatted by typewriter, augmented by some mathematical symbols and inserted graphs, bound in paper, and published by Teachers College itself. A more polished hardcover version of Courses I through IV was put out in subsequent years by Addison-Wesley; these were adaptations made by Fehr and others and targeted to students with a broader range of mathematical ability.\n\nComputer programming on time-shared computer systems was included in the curriculum both for its own importance and for understanding numerical methods. The first course introduced flow charts and the notion of algorithms. The beginning portion of the fourth-year course was devoted to introducing the BASIC programming language, with an emphasis on fundamental control flow statements, continued use of flow charts for design, and numerical programming applications. Interactive teletype interfaces on slow and erratic dial-up connections, with troublesome paper tape for offline storage, was the typical physical environment. \nStarting in 1966, teachers from nine junior high and high schools, mostly in the New York metropolitan area, began getting training in the study program at Teachers College. Such training was crucial since few junior high or high school teachers knew all the material that would be introduced. They then returned to their schools and began teaching the experimental courses, two teachers per grade. For instance, Leonia High School, which incorporated grades 8–12 (since there was no middle school then), called the program \"Math X\" for experimental, with individual courses called Math 8X, Math 9X, etc. Hunter College High School used it as the basis for its Extended Honors Program; the school's description stated that the program \"includes many advanced topics and requires extensive preparation and a considerable commitment of time to the study of mathematics.\" Students were periodically given standardized tests to make sure there was no decline in performance due to the unusual organization of material. Some 400 students were involved in this initial phase.\n\nBecause the program was so different from standard U.S. mathematics curricula, it was quite difficult to students to enter after the first year; students did, however, sometimes drop out of it and return to standard courses. As teaching the program was a specialized activity, teachers tended to move along from each grade to the next with their students, and so it was typical for students to have one of the same two teachers, or even the same teacher, for five or six years in a row.\nMore teachers were added in 1968 and 1969 and the University of Maryland and University of Arizona were added as teaching sites. Eighteen schools in Los Angeles adopted SSMCIS in what was called the Accelerated Mathematics Instruction program; some 2,500 gifted students took part. By 1971, teacher education programs were being conducted in places like Austin Peay State University in Tennessee, which was attended by junior high school teachers from seventeen states and one foreign country. By 1974, Fehr stated that 25,000 students were taking SSMCIS courses across the U.S.\n\nThe Secondary School Mathematics Curriculum Improvement Study program did show some success in its educational purpose. A study of the Los Angeles program found that SSMCIS-taught students had a better attitude toward their program than did students using School Mathematics Study Group courses (another \"New Math\" initiative) or traditional courses. In New York State schools, special examinations were given to tenth and eleventh grade SSMCIS students in lieu of the standard Regents Examinations due to a mismatch in curriculum. However, SSMCIS was one of the direct inspirations for the New York State Education Department, in the late 1970s and 1980s, adopting an integrated, three-year mathematics curriculum for all its students, combining algebra, geometry, and trigonometry with an increased emphasis in probability and statistics.\n\nGiven the differences in subject matter and approach, how SSMCIS-taught students would perform on College Entrance Examination Board tests became a major concern of parents and students and teachers. A 1973 report compared the test performance of such students with those from traditional mathematics curricula. It found that the SSMCIS students did better on the mathematics portion of the Preliminary Scholastic Aptitude Test (PSAT), even when matched for background and performance on the verbal portion. It also found that SSMCIS students did just as well on the Mathematics Level II Achievement Test as traditional students taking college preparatory courses or, indeed, as college freshmen taking introductory calculus courses. Another study found SSMCIS students well prepared for the mathematics portion of the regular Scholastic Aptitude Test.\n\nHowever, SSMCIS developed slowly. Funding became an issue, and indeed it was never funded as well as some other mathematics curriculum efforts had been. Despite the federal funding source, there was no centralized, national focal point in the U.S. for curriculum changes – such as some European countries had – and that made adoption of SSMCIS innovations a harder task. By the mid-1970s there was a growing backlash against the \"New Math\" movement, spurred in part by a perceived decline in standardized test scores and by Morris Kline's critical book \"Why Johnny Can't Add: The Failure of the New Math\". Many reform efforts had underestimated the difficulty of getting the public and the mathematics educational community to believe that major changes were really necessary, especially for secondary school programs where college entrance performance was always the key concern of administrators. Federal funding for curriculum development also came under attack from American conservatives in the U.S. Congress. As one of the participants in creating SSMCIS, James T. Fey of Teachers College, later wrote, \"Schools and societal expectations of schools appear to change very slowly.\" In the end, SSMCIS never became widely adopted.\n\nOne SSMCIS student, Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Leonia High School, decades later became Foreign Minister and then President of Estonia. He credited the SSMCIS course, the early exposure it gave him to computer programming, and the teacher of the course, Christine Cummings, with his subsequent interest in computer infrastructure, which in part resulted in the country leaping over its Soviet-era technological backwardness; computer-accessible education became pervasive in Estonian schools, and the Internet in Estonia has one of the highest penetration rates in the world. As his tenure as president came to a close in 2016, Ilves visited his old school building with Cummings and said, \"I owe everything to her. Because of what she taught us, my country now uses it.\" Cummings said that SSMCIS not only introduced beginning computer programming but also taught students \"how to think\".\n\nSSMCIS did represent a productive exercise in thinking about mathematics curriculum, and the mathematics education literature would cite it in subsequent years, including references to it as a distinct, and the most radical, approach to teaching geometry; as using functions as a unifying element of teaching mathematics; and as its course materials having value when used as the vehicle for further research in mathematics education.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "20302230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20302230", "title": "Symbolic boundaries", "text": "Symbolic boundaries\n\nSymbolic boundaries are a theory of how people form social groups proposed by cultural sociologists.\nSymbolic boundaries are “conceptual distinctions made by social actors…that separate people into groups and generate feelings of similarity and group membership.”\n\nSymbolic boundaries are a necessary but insufficient condition for social change. Only when symbolic boundaries are widely agreed upon can they take on a constraining character and become social boundaries.\n\nÉmile Durkheim saw the symbolic boundary between sacred and profane as the most profound of all social facts, and the one from which lesser symbolic boundaries were derived.\nRituals - secular or religious - were for Durkheim the means by which groups maintained their symbolic/moral boundaries. \n\nMary Douglas has subsequently emphasised the role of symbolic boundaries in organising experience, private and public, even in a secular society; while other neo-Durkheimians highlight the role of deviancy as one of revealing and making plain the symbolic boundaries that uphold moral order, and of providing an opportunity for their communal reinforcement. As Durkheim himself put it, \"Crime brings together upright consciences and concentrates them...to talk of the event and wax indignant in common\", thereby reaffirming the collective barriers that have been breached.\n\nPrejudice is often the result of crossing the symbolic boundaries that preserve a group's sense of itself - boundaries that as with a nation's frontiers may in fact be real as well as symbolic. (The ancient ceremony of beating the bounds highlights that overlapping of real and symbolic bounds). Salman Rushdie has emphasised the role of the migrant as a postmodern representative, transgressing symbolic boundaries, and (potentially at least) demonised by their upholders in the host nation as a result.\n\nMarjorie Garber has explored the role of the transvestite in crossing the symbolic boundaries of gender - something which she considered tended to challenge those of race as well.\n\nSymbolic boundaries are distinct from “social boundaries\" that are \"objectified forms of social differences manifested in unequal access to an unequal distribution of resources… and social opportunities.”\n\nPlaying may be seen as a way of testing social boundaries - the unspoken frames set about social activities. Humour too provides a way of illuminating, testing and perhaps also shifting symbolic boundaries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47731642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47731642", "title": "Takoradi Technical Institute", "text": "Takoradi Technical Institute\n\nTakoradi Technical Institute is a mixed school found in Takoradi.The school was established in 1982 with the collaboration of the Ghanaian Government and German Government Support for Technical Cooperation.\nThe school is popular for its facilities which is used to train the student and enhance the technical skills of the students,this training makes the student the best in terms of practical among all school in Takoradi.\n\nTakoradi Technical Institute (T.T.I) was established in 1982 and started with 32 students. The student in the past wore blue shirt and khaki shores The statue signify how focus the student are on campus\n\n\nThere are four houses to which every student belongs to,these houses are:\n\n"}
{"id": "35184313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35184313", "title": "The 3rd Degree (radio series)", "text": "The 3rd Degree (radio series)\n\nThe 3rd Degree (sometimes written as The Third Degree) is a British quiz show broadcast on BBC Radio 4, hosted by comedian Steve Punt and made by Pozzitive Productions. The series is recorded at different universities around the country, the contestants all coming from the university in which the recording takes place. One teams consists of three students and the other of three lecturers (known as the \"Dons\") who teach the subjects the students are studying. \n\nThe show consists of several rounds which are as follows:\n\n\nReviews for \"The 3rd Degree\" have been mixed. Iain Weaver from UKGameshows gave a positive review of the series, saying: \"We're not tremendously upset by the way the teachers went through the series unbeaten, they \"are\" university lecturers, and university lecturers are meant to know an awful lot. We also liked the way Steve Punt kept the programme flowing at a decent pace, adding jokes and asides, and keeping proceedings moving along most enjoyably. He's probably helped by the audience at the student bar, who have doubtlessly taken this opportunity to have their one pint of something for the week. If there's one slight criticism we'd make, it's that the Highbrow Lowbrow round is a bit of a block in the middle of the programme. We might prefer to split the round into two parts, perhaps shifting the first immediately before the lists round. That would add a little bit more variety, and make the programme a little less imposing. That's just a minor criticism: most of what \"The 3rd Degree\" does, it does well. Given that it replaced the venerable \"Quote... Unquote\", it didn't have a high bar, but we can see this programme running for a fair few years.\"\n\nElisabeth Mahoney was negative in her summing up writing in \"The Guardian\": \"There are lots of rather lukewarm, predictable asides like this between rounds that rarely move beyond mildly distracting. You can imagine that on paper, this looked like a really swell idea: the reality on-air lacks pace and excitement, and you know the dons will win. It's a bit foggy in places, too, with a mysterious regime of bonus points available at some times and not others, and it can be hard to remember, by first name, who is on which side of the academic divide... There are a few amusing moments like this, but ultimately it's all a bit soulless and you don't really care who wins.\n\nDerek Smith in \"The Stage\" gave a mixed review saying the show was: \"A kind of dysfunctional radio version of \"University Challenge\". My question would be - what's the point? Admittedly, it's quite lively, but only vaguely funny, and hardly dynamic. Third-class degree, more like.\"\n\nIn 2015 \"The 3rd Degree\" was nominated for the Rose d'Or in the \"Radio Game Show\" category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17148503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17148503", "title": "The Bell System Science Series", "text": "The Bell System Science Series\n\nThe Bell System Science Series consists of nine television specials made for the AT&T Corporation that were originally broadcast in color between 1956 and 1964. Marcel LaFollette has described them as \"specials that combined clever story lines, sophisticated animation, veteran character actors, films of natural phenomena, interviews with scientists, and precise explanation of scientific and technical concepts — all in the pursuit of better public understanding of science.\" Geoff Alexander and Rick Prelinger have described the films as \"among the best known and remembered educational films ever made, and enthroning Dr. Frank Baxter, professor at the University of Southern California, as something of a legend as the omniscient king of academic science films hosts.\"\n\nAT&T and its subsidiary Bell Telephone System had a history of sponsoring broadcasting such as the \"Bell Telephone Hour\", which was a weekly radio program of classical and Broadway music. AT&T's advertising agency, N. W. Ayer & Son, suggested that they also sponsor \"television specials aimed at family audiences. Science was a natural topic choice, given the accomplishments and reputation of the company’s research arm, Bell Telephone Laboratories.\" They ultimately approached the famed filmmaker Frank Capra, who had numerous nominations and wins for the Academy Award for Best Director in the 1930s and 40s for films such as \"It's a Wonderful Life\" (1946). Capra produced the four films that were televised from 1956–1958. The second four films were produced by Warner Bros. Pictures, with veteran filmmaker Owen Crump in charge; these were televised between 1958 and 1962. The final film was produced by Walt Disney Pictures, and televised in 1964. Each special explored a single subject in detail. The host for the first eight films was Dr. Frank C. Baxter, a USC professor of English and television personality who played the role of \"Dr. Research\" (or \"Dr. Linguistics\" in \"The Alphabet Conspiracy\"). The host for the last film in the series was Walt Disney.\n\nFollowing their television broadcast, the films were made available at minimal cost for classroom use. J. B. Gilbert estimated that, by the mid 1960s, the films had been watched by 5 million schoolchildren and half a million college students\"; about 1600 copies of the film were ultimately distributed. Most of the films have been released for home video.\n\nLaFollette notes that, \"Production approaches that are now standard practice on \"NOVA\" and the Discovery Channel derive, in fact, from experimentation by television pioneers like Lynn Poole and Don Herbert and such programs as \"Adventure\", \"Zoo Parade\", \"Science in Action\", and the Bell Telephone System’s science specials. These early efforts were also influenced by television’s love of the dramatic, refined during its first decade and continuing to shape news and public affairs programming, as well as fiction and fantasy, today.\"\n\nThe first four films of the series were produced and written by Frank Capra from 1952–1956. As described by biographer Joseph McBride, Capra had retired from feature filmmaking by 1952, due in part to the turmoil of the Hollywood Blacklist era. McBride writes that Capra \"undoubtedly realized that the AT&T job was a way of going back to work quietly and rehabilitating his image.\" Matthew Gunter compares Capra's involvement with the Bell series to his work on wartime propaganda and training films, \"As in the creation of the war documentaries, Capra dove into the work and rediscovered his passion for the filmmaking process. Like his work on the war films, he employed found footage and animation to verify, illustrate, and document what was being said in the voice-over narration.\" Capra later described the films, \"Those four films about science, hand woven with bits of celluloid, were sprightly patterns of poesy and fact; fresh ideas were their main charm, a rather elegant charm, we thought, much like the light-hearted but disciplined charm of a Mozart composition.\" After the Bell series, Capra returned to feature films as the director of \"A Hole in the Head\" (1959).\n\nFrom the beginning of the project, Capra had insisted that the films would explore the relationship of science and religion. In his autobiography, Capra paraphrased his early comments to a meeting of the scientific advisory board assembled by AT&T and N. W. Ayer, \"If I make a science film, I will have to say that science research is just another expression of the Holy Spirit that works in \"all\" men. Furthermore, I will say that science, in essence, is just another facet of man's quest for God.\" At a later stage in the project, Capra wrote that the films would have \"the obligation to stress or at the very least to acknowledge the spiritual side of man's make-up — to acknowledge that all good things come from God — including science.\"\n\nCapra's screenplays called for two principal characters, \"Dr. Research\" and \"Mr. Fiction Writer\", who would interact both with each other and with animated characters specific to each film. Dr. Research mainly explains scientific matters. Matthew Gunter adds that the Fiction Writer \"possesses many of the characteristics of the heroes in earlier Capra films. ... Mr. Writer also acts like the audience's surrogate, often expressing a healthy skepticism or disbelief about the facts Dr. Research presents, asking questions to the scientist, and translating his technical verbiage into the language of the common people.\"\n\nThe religious elements in the screenplays occasioned much discussion and some acrimony with the scientific advisory board and consultants such as Donald Menzel, but many were finally incorporated. James Gilbert has written, \"When finally produced, \"Our Mr. Sun\" included a mixture of science, documentary footage, low-key advertising, and animation contained within a religious-magical framework. ... Most striking, \"Our Mr. Sun\" began and ended with inescapable religious allusions.\" Matthew Gunter writes, \"in these films, Capra tries to create a common ground between science and religion — both are ways for the optimistic and the curious to think about the world and our place in it.\"\n\nFor Dr. Research, Capra selected Dr. Frank C. Baxter. Baxter was a professor of English at the University of Southern California who enjoyed great success as the host of \"Shakespeare on TV\" at about the same time as the Bell series was being made, and who won a Peabody Award in 1955. Baxter hosted many educational television programs in the 1950s, although perhaps none were as influential as the eight Bell series programs. He became \"a full-fledged personality of the TV age — plain-spoken, not without humor and decidedly avuncular.\" The role of Mr. Fiction Writer was played by Eddie Albert in the first film, and by Richard Carlson in the next three. While Baxter and his role as Dr. Research continued into the Warner films, The Fiction Writer disappeared.\n\nThe films were done in Technicolor, and marked Capra's first use of color in filmmaking. Cartoon animation was an important feature; the animated characters in the films interact directly with the live-action characters, which was an innovation at the time. Capra worked with United Productions of America (UPA) for the first film, \"Our Mr. Sun\". At UPA, Bill Hurtz directed the animation for \"Our Mr. Sun\"; Hurtz had been the designer for the Oscar-winning cartoon short of Dr. Seuss' \"Gerald McBoing-Boing\" (1950). In 1954, Hurtz moved to Shamus Culhane Productions, and the animation contract for the next three Capra films followed him there.\n\nHarold E. Wellman was the cinematographer for the films; Wellman won an Emmy Award (Best Cinematography for Television) for the second film in the series, \"Hemo the Magnificent\". All four films were edited by Frank P. Keller, who won an Emmy Award (Best Editing Of A Film For Television) for the first, \"Our Mr. Sun\". Keller worked with Capra at the beginning of his career; he subsequently became a prominent feature film editor, and won the Academy Award for Best Film Editing for \"Bullitt\" (1968).\n\n\"Our Mr. Sun\" examines the Sun and how it works, the Sun's profound influence on life on earth, and the possibilities for harnessing sunlight for solar electricity; solar cells had been demonstrated at Bell Laboratories in 1954 during the development of the film. For the screenplay, Capra first contracted for treatments by two prominent authors, Aldous Huxley and Willy Ley. Ultimately, Capra wrote the screenplay himself, subject to approval by a scientific advisory board put together by N. W. Ayer. The principal scientific source used for the screenplay was the book \"Our Sun\" (1949) by Donald Menzel, who also consulted with Capra about the screenplay. Menzel opposed most of the religious elements of Capra's screenplay, but many were included in the version that was produced.\n\nThe film starred Eddie Albert and Lionel Barrymore, as the Fiction Writer and as the voice of Father Time, respectively. The film was Barrymore's last screen role, and was broadcast two years after the actor's death. It introduced Frank C. Baxter as Dr. Research; Baxter played this role in the next seven films in the series. Marvin Miller voiced The Sun. Sterling Holloway had a smaller part (uncredited) voicing Chloro Phyll.\n\nThe film was first broadcast on November 19, 1956 at 10 PM to an audience estimated at 24 million viewers in the US and Canada, which was considered very successful at the time. Critical reaction was also favorable, and production of the next three films was authorized by AT&T and N. W. Ayer.\n\n\"Hemo the Magnificent\" is an examination of what the circulatory system is and how it works. It was written and directed by Frank Capra, and starred Frank C. Baxter as Dr. Research, Richard Carlson as the Fiction Writer, Mel Blanc as the squirrel, June Foray as the deer, and Marvin Miller as Hemo.\n\nThis film was first broadcast on March 20, 1957 at 9 PM. This was a better hour for a family program than used for \"Our Mr. Sun\", and the program had more viewers than those being broadcast on the two other major television networks.\n\n\"The Strange Case of the Cosmic Rays\" is an examination of what cosmic rays are and how they work. It was written by Capra with Jonathan Latimer, a crime fiction novelist and screenwriter. As Gilbert describes it, the third and fourth films \"repeated the formulas of his earlier work while ever searching for new contrivances for popularization as well as the best language to express his soft religious message\" and that the script was essentially a reworking of ideas Capra had developed for a possible documentary about Robert A. Millikan. The film's screenplay works from the premise that the nature of cosmic rays is a mystery comparable to the great detective stories. A committee of marionettes representing Fyodor Dostoevsky, Charles Dickens, and Edgar Allan Poe is called upon to decide the question. The film was broadcast on October 25, 1957, apparently with a smaller television audience share and with more unfavorable reviews than for the first two specials.\n\n\"The Unchained Goddess\" examines what weather is and how it works. It was the fourth and last film in the series that was produced by Frank Capra, who wrote the screenplay with Jonathan Latimer. Unlike the first three of the films, this film was directed by Richard Carlson, who also appears in the film. The film was televised on February 12, 1958, with a disappointing audience share and many critical press reviews.\n\nRecent commentators have noted that this film exhibits an early concern with climate change caused by human activities.\n\nThe television ratings for these specials and the critical response to them were important to AT&T and to N. W. Ayer, which was apparently dissatisfied with \"The Strange Case of the Cosmic Rays\" and \"Unchained Goddess\". Capra had also become unhappy with the working relationship with his sponsors. The fifth through the eighth films in the series were produced by Warner Bros. Pictures. The first screen in the credits for these films is \"Produced under the personal supervision of Jack L. Warner\". Owen Crump was the producer for the four films, and directed three of them, but (unlike Capra) he did not write the screenplays. Crump retained Frank Baxter as the host for the four films, but he dispensed with the Dr. Research/Mr. Writer pairing of the Capra films.\n\nGeoff Alexander and Rick Prelinger have written, \"From the perspective of overall cohesion, writing, and set design, Crump's Bell series films are superior to those of Capra. Crump did not overtly proselytize, relied less on animated characters interacting with Dr. Baxter, and utilized the set design as almost a character in itself, as exemplified by William Kuehl's sound stage set for \"Gateways to the Mind\", and his madcap carnival-like set for \"Alphabet Conspiracy\".\" See the screenshot for one example of Kuehl's work. Marcel LaFollette has commented that, while the \"spiritual tone\" of the Capra films wasn't present the Warner films, \"overt appeals to religion also appeared in the four created by Warner Brothers\".\n\nEllis W. Carter was the cinematographer for three of the films; Mark Davis was credited for \"Thread of Life\". The first two Warner films were edited by the Warner Bros. veteran Fred MacDowell, who died in 1960. Frank P. Keller returned to edit the third and fourth films.\n\n\"Gateways to the Mind\" is about the five senses are and how they work. It was produced and directed by Owen Crump. The screenplay was by Henry F. Greenberg, a television screenwriter who was active in the 1950s and 60s. In addition to Dr. Baxter, it starred Wilder Penfield and Hadley Cantrell, with actor Karl Swenson playing the role of a cameraman (the program was set on a soundstage in a mock \"behind-the-scenes\" format). Chuck Jones directed the animation, which was designed by Maurice Noble. In 1966, Jones won an Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film for directing \"\" (1965).\n\n\"The Alphabet Conspiracy\" examines language and its history. The screenplay was written by Leo Salkin and Richard Hobson. Salkin had worked for UPA (the firm that produced animations for \"Our Mr. Sun\") both as an animator and as the writer for numerous cartoon shorts. The screenplay uses characters from Lewis Carroll's \"Alice in Wonderland\". It was directed by Robert B. Sinclair, who had worked on numerous films and television programs. The cast included Cheryl Callaway (as Judy), Stanley Adams (as the theatrical agent), and Hans Conried (as the Mad Hatter). Daws Butler (uncredited) voiced several characters. The animated sequences were directed by Friz Freleng, who subsequently won the Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film for directing \"The Pink Phink\" (1964).\n\nAT&T and N. W. Ayer were apparently somewhat dissatisfied with the first two Warner films, and unsuccessfully approached Capra about bidding on production of \"Thread of Life\" and \"About Time\". \"Thread of Life\" is about heredity, DNA and how it works. The screenplay was by Rowland Barber, a writer perhaps best known for the 1960 novel \"The Night They Raided Minsky's\". Owen Crump directed; Robert McKimson directed the animation.\n\n\"About Time\" examines time. The screenplay was written by Richard Hobson, Nancy Pitt, and Leo Salkin. Owen Crump directed, with Phil Monroe directing the animations. The film starred Richard Deacon and Les Tremayne and featured Richard Feynman who was used as a consultant.\n\n\"The Restless Sea\" examines the oceans. The half-hour film was the last of the Bell Telephone Science Series, and was produced by Walt Disney Productions. The director was Les Clark; the film starred Walt Disney, as himself, and Sterling Holloway, who replaced Baxter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21133194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21133194", "title": "Tony Holden (Home and Away)", "text": "Tony Holden (Home and Away)\n\nAnthony \"Tony\" Holden is a fictional character from the Australian Channel Seven soap opera \"Home and Away\", played by Jon Sivewright. The character debuted on-screen during the episode airing on 5 August 2005. As of 2010 Sivewright was the joint second longest-serving current male cast member in the serial. In February 2010, it was announced that Sivewright was being written out of the serial after five years following the departure of his co-star Amy Mathews. Tony's storylines have focused on his grief on losing his wife, girlfriend and child, he is described as a \"family man\" who puts them first.\n\nAs of 2010 Sivewright was the joint-second longest serving male cast member. That year his co-star Mathews who plays on-screen wife Rachel Armstrong had quit the serial to pursue other projects and it was revealed that producers decided that it was the right time to write out Sivewright's character. Commenting on their exits a spokesperson for the serial stated: \"Amy Mathews is definitely going in a few months' time. Then, with Amy's character Rachel out of the picture, it was decided Tony should go with her, so Jon Sivewright is leaving too.\" Fellow cast member Rebecca Breeds who plays Ruby Buckton in the serial spoke out about their departures stating: \"In terms of character, to see Tony and Rachel go is kind of upsetting because they fill a really important demographic - that middle-aged, new family thing and there's nothing like that on the show now so they're a loss.\"\n\nThe serial's official website describe Tony as suffering \"great loss\" throughout his life. They describe his persona stating: \", Tony has great compassion and empathy for others, yet always looks at the big picture with a positive perspective on things.\" Tony likes to keep fit, but does not mind a beer with the boys. He's also described as a family man, of this Sivewright states: \"Tony's family is everything to him, he has a lot of love for his kids, but he has seen a lot of grief in his life and has quite a self- destructive side that can emerge– which makes him a challenging character to portray.\"\n\nIn 2009 Tony embarked on an unexpected relationship with Rachel, Tony is older and not the type of man she would normally date, of this Mathews states: \"It's a surprise love interest, someone who is not Rachel's type which is great because I think we should all try expanding our narrow type registers, thankfully, Jon and I know each other quite well, so it's no big deal.\"\n\nTony arrives in Summer Bay with his two sons, Jack (Paul O'Brien) and Lucas (Rhys Wakefield). Tony, a widower after the death of his wife Kate, strikes up a romance with single parent and widow Beth Hunter (Clarissa House), who lives next door to him. Tony and Lucas move in with Beth and her family whilst Jack remains in his dad's house. Beth decides to go and tour the world. Tony, thinking Beth is unhappy, proposes to Beth but she rejects telling him that she does not need to marry Tony in order to be with him. She promises to return to her partner and family. However, as she is returning, she is involved in a tragic accident and dies. Tony struggles to cope with the loss of his partner and even sleeps with new school teacher Naomi Preston (Tiffany Preece), unbeknownst to him, she has a relationship with his son Lucas. Lucas is livid when he finds out the truth, but eventually forgives him.\n\nTony embarks on a disastrous relationship with Jazz Curtis (Rachel Gordon) before finding happiness with Rachel Armstrong. Tony is initially unsure on whether to ask Rachel out on a date due to the age difference, and Rachel herself is not sure of accepting it as she was flirting with new resident Roman Harris. However, Colleen likens Roman Harris (Conrad Coleby) to Rachel's ex-husband Kim Hyde (Chris Hemsworth) who left her for Kit Hunter (Amy Mizzi), and it is this comment that leads Rachel to accept Tony's date.\n\nRachel still wants children and is upset when Tony announces he has had a vasectomy. He agrees to reverse the vasectomy for her and try for a baby, although the doctors tell Tony the chances of conceiving a child are low. Tony proposes to Rachel who happily accepts, when the wedding day arrives, Rachel goes missing. She is kidnapped by Aden Jefferies (Todd Lasance) who was holds her and his father Larry hostage. Tony, Jack and Leah all presume that Rachel had got cold feet and had run away. Tony, devastated by this, goes on a holiday to drown his sorrows. Rachel returns from her tragic ordeal, and Tony arrives back. There is tension between the pair, Tony and Rachel soon picked up where they left off. However, Bridget Simmons (Joy Smithers) arrives in the Bay, a woman who Tony had had a one-night stand with whilst on holiday. He tells Rachel, who forgives him. Tony and Rachel then get married and Rachel later announces she is finally pregnant.\n\nTony finds Jack dead at a building site. This had a bad effect on Tony who becomes less talkative and stays away from work. Everyone begins to notice Tony is extremely stricken with grief and is unable to cope. He attacks Jack's killer Angelo Rosetta (Luke Jacobz) at his son's funeral, when he finds out the truth about Jack's death. Tony gradually returns to normal when Angelo is arrested and left the bay. Tony then starts acting oddly again and begins staying out late, this leads Rachel to suspect he is having an affair. Angelo returns after being found not guilty of murder, claiming he did it in self-defence. Tony seemingly warms to Angelo, but it soon becomes clear he is planning revenge. When on a fishing trip with Angelo, he attempts to kill him by pushing him off a cliff. However, he comes to his senses and saved him. A couple of weeks later Rachel gives birth to a son, Harry. Rachel soon becomes irate over her parenting, she believes she is a bad mother. Tony tries to help Rachel but she pushes him away, it soon becomes clear she is suffering from Post natal depression. After Rachel returns to work, they sort out their differences. John Palmer (Shane Withington) causes friction between many residents, Tony takes a dislike to this. They begin a drawn out feud and Tony takes his interest in boxing to a new level. He decides to take on John, which annoys Rachel. She becomes more annoyed because Tony starts a women's boxing class. Tony and John face each other in the ring but the fight is declared a draw when neither man lands a punch on the other and the crowd walk away.\n\nRachel is later offered a job in Boston. Tony refuses to go, saying Summer Bay is his home. Tony is later more furious when Rachel buys a ticket without telling him. Later Rachel figures out that the reason he does not want to go is because Jack is buried in Summer Bay. Rachel tell Tony she will stay for him. After that Tony says that he will go with her to America. Their last scene is shown with Tony, Rachel and Harry at Jack's grave to say goodbye and they leave.\n\nSoap opera reporting website Holy Soap recall Tony's most memorable scenes as being when he reversed his vasectomy so Rachel and he could have kids. Upon Tony and Rachel's departure, the website stated they were fans of their romantic relationship adding: \"If anyone deserves true love, then it's these two! There were sighs of relief all round when they finally tied the knot (their first attempt having been ruined by another pesky kidnapping) and they later welcomed beautiful baby son Harry.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31616399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31616399", "title": "Toyoma Education Museum", "text": "Toyoma Education Museum\n\nToyoma Education Museum exhibits the history of education in Japan since the Meiji period. It is housed in the of 1888 in the city of Tome, Miyagi Prefecture. The U-shaped two-storey building around a courtyard, lined with balconies and with half-hexagons at the end of each wing, was designed by Kisaburo Yamazoe. It is representative of the western-inspired architecture of the Meiji period and in 1981 was designated an Important Cultural Property.\n\n\n Toyoma Education Museum homepage\n"}
{"id": "70919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70919", "title": "United States Department of Education", "text": "United States Department of Education\n\nThe United States Department of Education (ED or DoED), also referred to as the ED for (the) Education Department, is a Cabinet-level department of the United States government. It began operating on May 4, 1980, having been created after the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare was split into the Department of Education and the Department of Health and Human Services by the Department of Education Organization Act, which President Jimmy Carter signed into law on October 17, 1979.\n\nThe Department of Education is administered by the United States Secretary of Education. It has under 4,000 employees (2018) and an annual budget of $68 billion (2016). The 2019 Budget also supports $129.8 billion in new postsecondary grants, loans, and work-study assistance to help an estimated 11.5 million students and their families pay for college. Its official abbreviation is \"ED\" (\"DOE\" refers to the United States Department of Energy) and is also often abbreviated informally as \"DoEd\".\n\nThe primary functions of the Department of Education are to \"establish policy for, administer and coordinate most federal assistance to education, collect data on US schools, and to enforce federal educational laws regarding privacy and civil rights.\" The Department of Education does not establish schools or colleges.\n\nUnlike the systems of most other countries, education in the United States is highly decentralized, and the federal government and Department of Education are not heavily involved in determining curricula or educational standards (with the recent exception of the No Child Left Behind Act). This has been left to state and local school districts. The quality of educational institutions and their degrees is maintained through an informal private process known as accreditation, over which the Department of Education has no direct public jurisdictional control.\n\nThe Department of Education is a member of the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, and works with federal partners to ensure proper education for homeless and runaway youth in the United States.\n\nOpposition to the Department of Education mainly stems from conservatives, who see the department as an undermining of states rights, and libertarians who believe it results in a state-imposed leveling towards the bottom and low value for taxpayers' money.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Education provides a service to the education system that acts as like a government for schooling around the country. This is the place where the rules are made that exist in our school system today. “Since the Department of Education (Education) began operations in fiscal year 1980, its mission has included promoting student achievement and ensuring equal access to educational opportunity. To do so, Education partners with state and local governments, which provide most of the resources to school districts for K-12 programs\".\n\nCivil Rights and Equal Opportunity is one of the most forefront issues that is discussed about within the U.S. Department of Education’s four walls. The goal of this agency is to make sure that every student in primary and secondary education has the tools that they need to succeed. Not all of their ideas always work out in the best favor of the students. Throughout recent history, the educational system has not always been focused on furthering the development of all students (in regards to race and gender). However, coming out of the 20 century this ideal has been turned around and many new legislations have been put in place to break down these invisible walls that were surrounding the people who were affected by this hindrance. “The U.S., like other countries in the 21st century, is increasingly operating in an interconnected world. New structures require that teachers and our next generations of students prepare and expand ideas about their responsibilities as citizens\".\nFor 2006, the ED discretionary budget was $56 billion and the mandatory budget contained $23 billion. In 2009 it received additional ARRA funding of $102 billion. As of 2011, the discretionary budget is $70 billion.\n\nA previous Department of Education was created in 1867 but was soon demoted to an Office in 1868. As an agency not represented in the president's cabinet, it quickly became a relatively minor bureau in the Department of the Interior. In 1939, the bureau was transferred to the Federal Security Agency, where it was renamed the Office of Education. In 1953, the Federal Security Agency was upgraded to cabinet-level status as the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.\n\nIn 1979, President Carter advocated for creating a cabinet-level Department of Education. Carter's plan was to transfer most of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare's education-related functions to the Department of Education. Carter also planned to transfer the education-related functions of the departments of Defense, Justice, Housing and Urban Development, and Agriculture, as well as a few other federal entities. Among the federal education-related programs that were not proposed to be transferred were Headstart, the Department of Agriculture's school lunch and nutrition programs, the Department of the Interior's Native Americans' education programs, and the Department of Labor's education and training programs.\n\nUpgrading Education to cabinet level status in 1979 was opposed by many in the Republican Party, who saw the department as unconstitutional, arguing that the Constitution doesn't mention \"education\", and deemed it an unnecessary and illegal federal bureaucratic intrusion into local affairs. However, many see the department as constitutional under the Commerce Clause, and that the funding role of the Department is constitutional under the Taxing and Spending Clause. The National Education Association supported the bill, while the American Federation of Teachers opposed it.\n\nAs of 1979, the Office of Education had 3,000 employees and an annual budget of $12 billion. Congress appropriated to the Department of Education an annual budget of $14 billion and 17,000 employees when establishing the Department of Education. During the 1980 presidential campaign, Gov. Reagan called for the total elimination of the U.S. Department of Education, severe curtailment of bilingual education, and massive cutbacks in the federal role in education. Once in office, President Reagan significantly reduced its budget.\n\nThe Republican Party platform of 1980 called for the elimination of the Department of Education created under Carter and President Ronald Reagan promised during the 1980 presidential election to eliminate it as a cabinet post, but he was not able to do so with a Democratic House of Representatives. In the 1982 State of the Union Address, he pledged: \"The budget plan I submit to you on Feb. 8 will realize major savings by dismantling the Department of Education.\"\n\nBy 1984 the GOP had dropped the call for elimination from its platform, and with the election of President George H. W. Bush the Republican position evolved in almost lockstep with that of the Democrats, with Goals 2000 a virtual joint effort.\n\nAfter the Newt Gingrich-led \"revolution\" in 1994 had taken control of both Houses of Congress, federal control of and spending on education soared. That trend continued unabated despite the fact that the Republican Party made abolition of the Department a cornerstone of 1996 platform and campaign promises, calling it an inappropriate federal intrusion into local, state, and family affairs. The GOP platform read: \"The Federal government has no constitutional authority to be involved in school curricula or to control jobs in the market place. This is why we will abolish the Department of Education, end federal meddling in our schools, and promote family choice at all levels of learning.\"\n\nIn 2000, the Republican Liberty Caucus passed a resolution to abolish the Department of Education. Abolition of the organization was not pursued under the George W. Bush administration, which made reform of federal education a key priority of the President's first term. In 2008 and 2012, presidential candidate Ron Paul campaigned in part on an opposition to the Department.\n\nUnder President George W. Bush, the Department primarily focused on elementary and secondary education, expanding its reach through the No Child Left Behind Act. The Department's budget increased by $14 billion between 2002 and 2004, from $46 billion to $60 billion.\n\nOn March 23, 2007, President George W. Bush signed into law , which designates the ED Headquarters building as the Lyndon B. Johnson Department of Education Building.\n\nIn the time after George W. Bush’s presidency and towards the end of President Barack Obama’s presidency, there was an extremely noticeable problem within the education system that was excluding many children from receiving the striving opportunities that they should have been given throughout their schooling careers. So, In December of 2015 President Barack Obama had instituted the Every Student Succeeds Act, which reauthorized the Elementary Secondary Education Act. “In December 2015, the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) was signed into law, reauthorizing the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) and replacing the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB). ESEA, the federal law that authorizes federal funding for K-12 schools, represents the nation’s commitment to equal educational opportunity for all students and has influenced the education of millions of children.\"\n\nOn February 7, 2017, Representative Thomas Massie (R-KY) introduced , a bill to abolish the department. Massie's bill, which is one sentence long, states, \"The Department of Education shall terminate on December 31, 2018.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9091662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9091662", "title": "Wisconsin Center for the Advancement of Postsecondary Education", "text": "Wisconsin Center for the Advancement of Postsecondary Education\n\nThe Wisconsin Center for the Advancement of Postsecondary Education (WISCAPE) was established in 2001 on the University of Wisconsin-Madison campus by former UW–Madison Chancellor David Ward.\n\nWard envisioned the center as “a policy think tank, not just an academic think tank,” that would promote cross-disciplinary research and scholarship on postsecondary education, enhance professional development for those working at colleges and universities, and engage the public in a dialogue about the role of postsecondary education in a democratic society.\n\nLocal and national media have since highlighted the work of the center’s staff, scholars, and affiliates on a variety of postsecondary education issues, including financial aid, trends in state funding for postsecondary education, returns to state investment in postsecondary education, college student transfer issues, community colleges, de facto privatization of public universities, gridlock in state policymaking, the college presidency, federal college cost containment measures, and the Wisconsin Covenant.\n\n"}
{"id": "5659889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5659889", "title": "Wisconsin Historical Society", "text": "Wisconsin Historical Society\n\nThe Wisconsin Historical Society (officially the State Historical Society of Wisconsin) is simultaneously a state agency and a private membership organization whose purpose is to maintain, promote and spread knowledge relating to the history of North America, with an emphasis on the state of Wisconsin and the trans-Allegheny West. Founded in 1846 and chartered in 1853, it is the oldest historical society in the United States to receive continuous public funding. The society's headquarters are located in Madison, Wisconsin, on the campus of the University of Wisconsin–Madison.\n\nThe Wisconsin Historical Society is organized into four divisions: the Division of Library-Archives, the Division of Museums and Historic Sites, the Division of Historic Preservation-Public History, and the Division of Administrative Services.\n\nThe Division of Library-Archives collects and maintains books and documents about the history of Wisconsin, the United States, and Canada. The society's library and archives, which together serve as the library of American history for the University of Wisconsin–Madison, contain nearly four million items, making the society's collection the largest in the world dedicated exclusively to North American history. The Wisconsin Historical Society's extensive newspaper collection is the second largest in the United States after the Library of Congress.\n\nThe society's archives also serve as the official repository for state and local government records. The society coordinates an Area Research Center Network, an alliance between the Historical Society in Madison and four-year campuses of the University of Wisconsin System throughout the state, to make most of the archival collections accessible to state residents.\n\nThe Division of Museums and Historic Sites operates the Wisconsin Historical Museum in downtown Madison and 11 historic sites throughout the state. The museum has an archaeology program in collaboration with the Department of Transportation and the Department of Natural Resources that undertakes research, and collects and preserves historical artifacts. The other historic sites are tourist attractions that display historic buildings reflecting Wisconsin history and provide exhibitions and demonstrations of state history, such as ethnic settlement, mining, farming, fur trading, transportation, and pioneering life.\n\nThe Division of Historic Preservation-Public History administers the state's historic preservation program, the state’s burial sites preservation program, and the Wisconsin Historical Society Press, which publishes books on Wisconsin and American history and a quarterly magazine, the \"Wisconsin Magazine of History\". The division also provides outreach to local historical societies.\n\nThe \"Wisconsin Magazine of History\" () is a quarterly journal published by the WHS since September 1917. The society maintains a fully digitized archive that contains more than 2,000 feature articles totaling more than 30,000 pages.\n\nThe Division of Administrative Services provides support and planning for the WHS and its divisions.\n\nThe society's website include a large, searchable collection of historical images and a vast digital archive containing thousands of scanned documents relating to Wisconsin history.\n\nWisconsin Historical Society employees are employees of the State of Wisconsin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54587978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54587978", "title": "Wolayta sodo Agricultural College", "text": "Wolayta sodo Agricultural College\n\nWolaita Sodo Agricultural TVET College is one of the agricultural TVET Colleges in the country. It is found in Wolaita zone, Sodo town of SNNPRS which is 165 kilometers west of Hawassa and 390 kilometers south west of Addis Ababa.\nThe college was established in 2001 having all the resources and equipment’s from the Wolaita Agricultural Development Unit (WADU) project which had been sponsored by World Bank since 1970 up to 1982.\n\nCurrently, the college has a total coverage of 65 hectare of land which enabled it to have the capacity of training more than 5000 trainees in\nAnimal Science\nPlant Science and\nNatural Resources\nat a time with 26 hectares adjacent land received for practical purposes.\n\nApart from the preliminary training programs, the college is hosting and coordinating different regional and zonal short term trainings such as\nArtificial inseminations\nEntrepreneurship\nWater hatching technology\nBasic computer skills.\n"}
{"id": "3521863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3521863", "title": "École nationale supérieure des industries chimiques", "text": "École nationale supérieure des industries chimiques\n\nThe École Nationale Supérieure des Industries Chimiques (ENSIC) is an Engineering School dedicated to Chemical Engineering in Nancy, France.\n\nEnsic Nancy is one of the seven schools of the Institut National Polytechnique de Lorraine (INPL), France's largest technological university.\nIn October 1885, it was announced that the authorities were in favour of the creation of an institute of chemistry in Nancy. This pulled together a variety of chemical activities in the University of Nancy, with the specific aim of instructing young men in the practical application of chemistry to industry and agriculture. The decree authorizing the creation of the Institute was made on 8 September 1887 and construction began in 1888. The first 6 students joined in 1889 and Albin Haller was appointed as director on 30 July 1890. on 6 June 1892 it was formally inaugurated by the President of the Republic, Marie François Sadi Carnot.\nOne of its early professors, Victor Grignard, obtained the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1912 for his invention of the organo-metallic compounds known as \"Grignard's reagents\". After the Second World War, ENSIC introduced to France chemical engineering principles developed in the English-speaking world.\n\nThe school created a foundation in December 2008 to support its activities, called \"Fondation ENSIC\", with the participation of Arkema.\n\n\nENSIC Nancy offers two masters-level engineering degrees accredited by the Commission des titres d'ingénieur (France) and by the Institution of Chemical Engineers (UK).\n\n\n\n2 Laboratories:\n\nResearch Activities in the following fields:\n\n"}
