{"id": "28224526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28224526", "title": "2010 Russian wildfires", "text": "2010 Russian wildfires\n\nThe 2010 Russian wildfires were several hundred wildfires that broke out across Russia, primarily in the west in summer 2010. They started burning in late July and lasted until early September 2010. The fires were associated with record-high temperatures, which were attributed to climate change—the summer had been the hottest recorded in Russian history—and drought.\n\nRussian President Dmitry Medvedev declared a state of emergency in seven regions, and 28 other regions were under a state of emergency due to crop failures caused by the drought. The fires cost roughly $15 billion in damages.\n\nA combination of the smoke from the fires, producing heavy smog blanketing large urban regions and the record-breaking heat wave put stress on the Russian healthcare system. Munich Re estimated that in all, 56,000 people died from the effects of the smog and the heat wave. The 2010 wildfires were the worst on record to that time.\n\nDuring 2010 Russia experienced dry, hot weather starting around late May and lasting until early June. Temperatures of first occurred after 12 June, which alone was an abnormality for the country (average mid-June temperatures seldom rise above ). In late June, Russian regions such as the Eurasian Sakha Republic, as well as areas of partial taiga, had temperatures of . The warm ridging pattern then slowly moved westward to the Ural Mountains, and by July settled in European Russia.\n\nOn 25 June a new temperature record was set in the Asian portion of Russia, at Belogorsk, Amur Oblast, at . The previous record in the Asian portion was at Aksha on 21 July 2004. A new record for the highest nationwide temperature in Russia was set on 11 July, at , in Yashkul, Kalmykia (in the European portion), beating the previous record of set on 6 August 1940, in Kalmykia.\n\nAverage temperatures in the region increased to over . The mean high for European Russia recorded on 26 July reached during the day. During July 2010, a large portion of European Russia was more than 7 °C (12.6 °F) warmer than normal.\n\nAccording to the director of the Global Fire Monitoring Centre (GFMC) Johann Goldammer, the wildfires were caused by \"negligent [human] behaviour\", such as lighting barbecues and fireworks in a densely wooded area. Such human activity, coupled with the unusually high temperatures over the Russian territories, catalyzed this record disturbance.\n\nPeat fires causing significant loss of properties and an unverified number of human fatalities started in the Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, the Voronezh Oblast, Moscow Oblast, Ryazan Oblast and across central and western Russia due to unseasonably hot weather.\n\nThe head of EMERCOM, Sergey Shoygu, reported on 31 July 2010 that the fire situation in the seventeen federal subjects of Russia, especially in Vladimir and Moscow Oblasts, may be complicated. He claimed that in Nizhny Novgorod Oblast the velocity of fires was 100 meters per minute, and the fiery air flow tore trees from the root, like a hurricane. A YouTube video was uploaded, showing a group of men escaping from a burning village in Vyksa district by driving their car over a burning road.\n\nOn 1 August 2010, the area of the forest fires was .\nThe Central Regional Center MOE Russia website reported that in Moscow Oblast 130 foci of natural fires were detected, covering the area of 880 hectares. Of those, 67 fires covered an area of 178 hectares.\n\nAccording to \"Interfax\" referring to the head of the National Center for Crisis Management of EMERCOM Vladimir Stepanov, as of 2010, Russia revealed approximately 7,000 fires in the area over . Fire was also burning in 14 federal subjects of Russia, and on 2010, officials reported the death of 34 people.\n\nMoscow on Monday was covered in smoke, with reduced road visibility. On Monday, 2 August 2010, Vladimir Putin scheduled a meeting with the Governors of Voronezh, Novgorod, Samara, Moscow, Ryazan, and Vladimir Oblasts, as well as the Head of the Republic of Mordovia.\n\nBy 4 August, the wildfires were still burning over , with a death toll of at least 48. Some fires burned in areas near the nuclear research center in Sarov. However Rosatom head Sergey Kiriyenko dismissed apprehension of an atomic explosion.\n\nPresident Dmitry Medvedev cut short his summer break to return to Moscow for an emergency meeting of the national security council to address the crisis. At an international meeting on 30 July, amid the ongoing heat wave and wildfires, Medvedev announced on television that \"practically everything is burning. The weather is anomalously hot. What's happening with the planet's climate right now needs to be a wake-up call to all of us, meaning all heads of state, all heads of social organizations, in order to take a more energetic approach to countering the global changes to the climate.\"\n\nMedvedev sacked some of his senior navy officers after one fire destroyed Russian navy equipment. The officers were accused of \"incomplete professional responsibility\" after several buildings were allowed to burn down and vehicles and equipment destroyed. He suggested anyone who had neglected their duties would be prosecuted. On the same day it was reported that another fire was approaching a major secret nuclear research facility in the city of Sarov.\n\nEnvironmental groups, such as the WWF, and \"non-systemic\" opposition politicians suggested firefighting has been slowed down by the Forest Code law passed by the Duma in 2006 at the order of Putin. The legislation transferred responsibility for the country's vast woodlands to regional authorities, putting 70,000 forestry guards out of work.\n\nAccording to the Emergencies Ministry, there were 843 reported outbreaks of fires, including 47 peat fires. There were 73 large fires. The fires threatened an animal sanctuary for over 1,800 animals, including dogs and retired circus animals. Almost 600 fires were still burning in the country, and around 2,000 homes had been destroyed. The President fired several high-ranking military officials after fires burned through a secret military base.\n\nCarbon monoxide pollution in Moscow was four times above normal. Firefighters fought to prevent the wildfires from reaching Bryansk, an area bordering Ukraine contaminated with radioactive material, including cesium-137 and strontium-90, in the soils following the 1986 Chernobyl disaster. Emergencies Minister Sergey Shoygu warned that fires could release radionuclides into the air. He said that a new zone of radioactive pollution could emerge. Two fires broke out in the region but were contained.\n\nAccording to the Emergencies Ministry, there were registered 831 fires, including 42 peat fires. 80 large fires were registered in an area of . Almost 162,000 people were reported to be fighting with the flames in the regions of Moscow, Voronezh, Nizhny Novgorod, Ryazan, Ivanovo, Vladimir, Yaroslavl, Tver, Yekaterinburg, Republic of Mordovia, and Mari El Republic.\n\nAccording to the State environmental agency \"Mosekomonitoring\", in the morning in Moscow, the maximum concentration of carbon monoxide in the air exceeded the acceptable norm by 3.6 times, the content of suspended particles by 2.8 times, and specific hydrocarbons by 1.5 times. The Moscow airports of Domodedovo and Vnukovo were unable to land more than 40 planes and were only able to send about 20 planes due to the strong haze caused by the smoke. As of 10 a.m., visibility at Domodedovo was 350 m and 300 m at Vnukovo. According to the Federal Air Transportation Agency, the Sheremetyevo airport works as usual because of visibility of about 800 m.\n\nAn international football friendly match (Russia–Bulgaria) scheduled for 11 August was moved to Saint Petersburg. Two Russian Premier League football games were postponed because of the severe environmental situation.\n\nAccording to the spectrometric data received from the NASA satellites Terra and Aqua, the smoke from the fires in some places rose to a height of about 12 kilometers and ended up in the stratosphere, which usually only occurs during volcanic eruptions. Satellite imagery showed that a cloud of smoke wide covered Western Russia.\n\nEmergency officials registered 853 outbreaks of fire by 7 August, including 32 peat fires, with a total area of , in which 244 islands of fire were put out, and 290 new fires sprung up.\n\nIn Moscow, by noon the concentration of airborne pollutants intensified and reached at 6.6 times normal level for carbon monoxide, and 2.2 times for suspended particulate matter. Seven flights heading for Domodedovo and Vnukovo airports were redirected to alternative airfields. The temperature may have reached in Moscow Oblast. At Sheremetyevo International Airport, visibility was reduced to 325 meters.\n\nSmoke from fires in the Novgorod region travel north, arriving in Saint Petersburg.\n\nEarly in the afternoon of 10 August Greenpeace Russia stated that fires were raging in radioactive polluted areas near Bryansk, which is quite polluted due to the Chernobyl disaster of 1986. This area is still heavily contaminated and has no inhabitants. In the Moscow area a heavy thunderstorm broke over the city. NO rates decreased from 8 times normal to normal NO rates. Unfortunately expectations are not favorable with temperatures over 35 degrees Celsius. Experts stated that the polluted air would continue again within a few days. Environmental scientists stated that the brown cloud produced by the fires may cause soot to land on Arctic sea ice, causing faster melting. The release of industrial polychlorinated biphenyls from the fires and cryoconite causing melting on the Greenland Ice Sheet were also concerns.\n\nWith the number of fires being reduced from 612 to 562, the skies over Moscow were mostly clear on 12 August, giving the city a much needed break from the devastating smog. Residents in the city told reporters that they were overjoyed with the suddenly improved air; most of whom stopped wearing their masks as the air was safe to breathe. However, forecasts indicated that a shift in the winds was likely to occur in the coming days, likely bringing the smog back into Moscow. Reports indicated that roughly 80,000 hectares of land were still burning.\n\nPress reports stated that a preliminary estimate of damage to the Russian economy as a result of the fires was €11.4 billion ($15 billion).\n\nAfter weeks without rain, heavy downpours soaked Moscow and nearby areas, bringing further relief to the extended heat wave. However, in Sarov, about east of Moscow, a new fire started near the country's top nuclear research center. Earlier in August, radioactive and explosive materials were moved out of the facility due to the threat of fires; however, they were later returned when the threat lessened. Over 3,400 firefighters were battling the blaze and were being assisted by a special firefighting train.\n\nA new wave of wildfires flared up in Russia in September, killing at least 8 people and destroying nearly 900 buildings.\n\nDeaths in Moscow were averaged 700 a day, about twice the average number. The heat wave is believed to have been unprecedented in Russian history, and killed 55,736 people, according to the Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters.\n\nFires have affected areas contaminated by the Chernobyl incident, specifically the surroundings of Bryansk and border regions with Belarus and Ukraine. Due to this, soil and plant particles contaminated by radioactive material could be released into the air and spread over wider areas. The Russian government indicated that there had been no discernible increase in radiation, even though Greenpeace accuses the government of denial. France's Institut de radioprotection et de sûreté nucléaire (Radioprotection and Nuclear Safety Institute) issued its own analysis on 12 August, and concluded that there was no health risk at the time, but that marginally elevated levels of radiation may be detected in the future.\n\nRussia received assistance in extinguishing the fires from China, Serbia, Italy, Ukraine, Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Poland, Lithuania, Iran, Estonia, Uzbekistan, Venezuela, France, Germany, Latvia and Finland\n\nMany diplomats and a number of embassies temporarily closed, among them those of Austria, Canada, Germany, Poland and Norway. On its website, the United States Department of State advised Americans traveling to Moscow and surrounding areas should \"carefully consider\" their plans because of \"hazardous levels of air pollution\" and \"numerous flight delays\". Italy's Foreign Ministry advised people to \"postpone any travel plans to Moscow that aren’t strictly necessary\".\n\nVolunteers took part in firefighting and helping those affected by the fires. In some cases, informal help was faster and more effective than official help. Volunteers bought and transported fire suppression materials, chainsaws, engine-driven water pumps, respirators, food, soap, and drinking water. Volunteer coordination happened via LiveJournal communities, the main one being \"pozar_ru\". There is also a website \"Russian-fires.ru\" working on Ushahidi platform that was used at Haiti and Chile earthquakes to coordinate volunteers.\n\n\"The Moscow Times\" wrote on 17 August 2010:Volunteers, widely snubbed by professional firefighters because of their lack of experience, have saved several villages by using basic shovels and buckets of water and sand. Even after a larger fire is suppressed with a fire hose, the underbrush often continues to burn, and a gust of wind can ignite it into a blaze once again. Using shovels and water backpacks, volunteers in Yuvino isolated burning groundcover, cleared a fire line around the village, and loaned firefighters a pump to fill their trucks.\nOne volunteer died in action in the Lukhovitsy District on 29 July 2010; the body was found on 15 August 2010. Another volunteer died in Mordovia from carbon monoxide poisoning on 4 August 2010; the body was found by Police patrol days later. Another volunteer died in a car crash in the Shatursky District on 14 August 2010.\n\nLocal Russian commercial and governmental mass media did not provide real-time information for the general public. In the case of a fast-moving wildfire there would be no chance to inform people via mass media about emergency evacuation. Furthermore, there was no official of Medvedev's administration personally responsible for providing emergency information of this kind.\n\nIn a piece under his byline on the \"Moscow Times\" website, \"Right Cause\" party co-founder Georgy Bovt wrote:\nState-controlled television revealed as little information as possible to the public about the fires and smog. Its primary goal was to prevent panic. This eerily reminded me of how the Soviet government reacted to the Chernobyl explosion in April 1986. In a similar manner, the authorities withheld information about the extent of the nuclear fallout to “avoid panic\".\n\nIn some cases, no information about villages affected by wildfire was available for two weeks. Doctors from several medical institutions in Moscow, interviewed by an Interfax correspondent, acknowledged that medical professionals were now forbidden to make a diagnosis of \"thermal shock\".\n\nAccording to a \"Vedomosti\" poll on information about the fires in the newspapers, 68% of people said that they trusted online media such as blogs, 28% independent media, and only 4% government media.\n\nGovernment Radio Mayak broadcast on 13 August:Vice-minister of Ministry of Emergency Situations Alexander Chupriyan said on Friday (13 August 2010) that the peat fires were extinguished completely in the Noginsk, Kolomna, Pavlovsky Posad and Orekhovo-Zuyevo areas near Moscow.\n\nA volunteer wrote about the same events on 13 August 2010 in the Orekhovo-Zuyevo area in his blog:I have never seen such...Along the roads—the burned forest. Here and there still smoldering, smoking. The road blocks smoke. What you saw in Moscow — it is nothing you have seen.\n\nIndependent radio on 14 August:\nThe MOE said that nothing is burning...TV show that nothing is burning...Civilians forced to buy fire equipment for firemen ... I saw open fire at Orekhovo-Zuyevo area.\n\nAnother volunteer wrote about the events on 15 August 2010 in the same Orekhovo-Zuyevo area in his blog:\nThe situation in Orekhovo is stable, i.e. a stable grassroots fire. \n\nThe swamps and bogs surrounding Moscow had been drained in the 1960s for agricultural use and mining of peat to generate energy. In 2002, a series of hard-to-extinguish peat fires led the government to recognize that the peat fields needed to be re-watered to prevent wildfires. By 2010, however, large expanses of peat areas had not been rewatered and were kindling wildfires.\n\nGovernment officials said they could not have anticipated the heatwave, but critics blamed complacent officials for ignoring warnings of blazes near villages. Sergey Robaten, Vadim Tatur, and Maksim Kalashnikov argued that the fires and the inability to contain and extinguish them was due to \"the inaction of bureaucrats\" and Putin's elimination of the Russian State Fire Service in 2007. Putin had transferred responsibility for fighting fires to those renting state property and the subjects of the federation, with the assumption that owners or renters would invest in whatever was necessary to prevent forest fires. However, the reality was more complex; Russian companies were seeking to turn a quick profit and thus neglected forest firefighting. Putin's spokesman remarked, \"this is a well-functioning system which only needs some minor adjustments\".\n\nThe wildfires destroyed one-third of Russia's wheat harvest. The Russian government refused to export the rest of its harvest and set a grain export ban to fight inflation. This led to extremely high food prices, which led to panicking on the global markets. Many experts including from the International Food Policy Research Institute say that the Russian wildfires in summer 2010 played a leading role in triggering the Arab Spring starting in 2010, especially in Egypt's case. Higher food prices helped to make oppression, poverty, and corruption under autocratic leaders even more aching for the local population. Also, as Russia was not even a member of the WTO at the time, banning exports was not a problem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13135951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13135951", "title": "Antidepressants in Japan", "text": "Antidepressants in Japan\n\nThe number of new psychiatric drugs, and especially antidepressants on the market in Japan, is significantly less than Western countries.\n\nOne of the biggest barriers to antidepressants coming to the market is that the medical insurance system in Japan is national, and the authorities are keen to contain a potentially explosive market for drugs like antidepressants that could be used or abused by persons in various forms of distress.\n\nAlthough large epidemiological studies have not been done in Japan, it is thought that up to 6 million Japanese suffer from depression, with a lifetime prevalence of 13 to 17.3%, which is similar to that seen in Western countries.\n\nWhile the market has seen the entry of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) fluvoxamine (Luvox-Fujisawa, Depromel-Meiji Seika), paroxetine (Paxil-GSK), sertraline (Zoloft-Pfizer), and the SNRI milnacipran (Toledomin-Asahi Kasei-Janssen), other antidepressants including citalopram (Cipramil/Cipralex-Lundbeck), fluoxetine (Prozac-Eli Lilly), venlafaxine (Effexor-Wyeth) and others are either still under investigation in Japan or have dropped their pursuit on gaining entry into the Japanese market.\n\nAlthough none of the antidepressants on the market in Japan have been studied using placebo controls, this had begun to change since the beginning of the 2000s. Prior clinical developments have pitted the new drug against a drug already on the market using a non-inferiority method of comparison, however, this method is known to be subject to placebo effects, e.g. depressive symptoms lifting due to effects other than pharmacologic drug effect. In a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study, fluvoxamine was superior to placebo for General Anxiety Disorder.\n\nAccording to a Japanese medical report in 2002, Trazodone and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) were widely available in Japan while only two SSRIs (paroxetine and fluvoxamine) were marketed. A third SSRI, sertraline, received approval in April 2006 after over 15 years of clinical trial development in Japan. \n\nThe three most sold antidepressants in Japan were by the end of 2010 were paroxetine with a value market share of 37%, sertraline with a share of 20% and fluvoxamine with a share of 15%.\n\nThe Japan algorithm for mood disorders does not include many of the post-tricyclic antidepressants used as first-line antidepressants in Western countries for almost two decades, and recent studies are still comparing SSRIs and tricyclic antidepressants, even though tricyclics are clearly 2nd or 3rd line treatments in the West. Organon International and Meiji Seika have filed an application for approval of mirtazapine in Japan, a drug on the market in many Western countries since 1994. Meiji Seika is commercializing mirtrazapine(brand name Reflex) in Japan which was approved for depression in 2009.\n\nCitalopram (Lundbeck), an SSRI on the market since the late 1980s is not available in Japan, however on April 22, 2011 escitalopram (the S-isomer enantiomer of citalopram), was approved for use in Japan. There is little news, however, on the status of bupropion (Glaxo Smith-Kline), used widely in Western countries since the early 1990s and long in clinical trials in Japan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6387230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6387230", "title": "Armenicum", "text": "Armenicum\n\nArmenicum is a drug invented in Armenia in 1998 that its developers claim is an effective treatment for HIV infection and a number of associated diseases. No rigorously monitored clinical trials of Armenicum have been published, and most HIV experts outside of Armenia do not endorse its use.\n\nIn 1999, a BBC investigation involving interviews with scientists involved in administering the drug, patients and creator Alexander Ilyen raised serious doubts about the drug's efficacy, concluding that Armenicum might do more harm than good. Dr. Manfred Dietrich of the Institute for Tropical Medicine in Hamburg told the BBC \"I would not recommend at all to take such a drug.\" while an American patient said \"we’re in a worse state than we were before we went.\" \n\nWorldwide, the most effective treatment for HIV are antiretroviral drugs, which in internationally accepted clinical trials have been the only proven way to keep patients alive, often for years. The drugs work by directly attacking and reducing the amount of HIV in the body, keeping the patient from developing Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), a complete immune system failure that leads to death. The drugs, offered in cocktails of three or four at a time, are often changed as the virus becomes resistant.\n\nAlternatively, the makers of Armenicum claim it boosts the immune system, allowing the body to fight the virus. Armenicum clinic doctors also contend the drug has been shown to reduce a patient’s viral load—the amount of HIV in the body—and that HIV never becomes resistant to it. The problem is that company scientists have never tried to prove any of these claims. They admit to not even formally monitoring the 250 patients who have been treated with the drug during the period from 2004 to 2008.\n\nThe main ingredient of Armenicum is iodine, a general antiseptic. According to the manufacturers it also contains dextrin, polyvinyl alcohol, sodium, potassium and lithium cations and chloride anions. It is described as a \"blue-violet liquid with specific odor, packed in orange glass bottles per 20ml and corked tightly by a rubber plug clutched by aluminum caps.\"\n\nWhen Armenicum was first introduced in Armenia in 1998, founders called it a \"revolutionary cure for AIDS,\" and it immediately captured Armenia's high-ranking government officials’ interest. Early on, initial payments for Armenicum treatments came from the Armenian Defense Ministry, hoping to promote the drug’s research and development. Armenicum’s possibilities caused a buzz of excitement in the tiny country. Businessmen, it was reported in some newspapers in 1999, were buying up property so that they could rent it to all the people who would fly to Armenia to take the cure. However, as of November 2008, only about 800 people have taken Armenicum, which is financed by the Armenian government at a cost of around $6,000 per patient per year.\n\nOn 8 September 2000, Nikolai Kolesnikov, who had received treatment for AIDS in \"Armenicum\" center in Armenia was reported dead in one of Kaliningrad hospitals. According to his doctors, Armenicum turned out to be a simple immunity modular, without any effect on the virus which continues to damage the cells in the human body.\n\nIn March 2005 Kolesnikov was reported to have frozen to death in his native Kaliningrad. There have been several other reports on his death over the years.\n\n"}
{"id": "26862448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26862448", "title": "Auditory-verbal therapy", "text": "Auditory-verbal therapy\n\nAuditory-verbal therapy is a method for teaching deaf children to and speak using their residual hearing in addition to the constant use of amplification devices such as hearing aids, FM devices, and cochlear implants. Auditory-verbal therapy emphasizes speech and listening.\n\nAuditory verbal therapy enables deaf and hard of hearing children to participate more fully in mainstream school and hearing society. In 2006, Rhoades published an article looking at whether the Auditory Verbal approach was justified. Using Frattali’s system for weighing the strength of treatment evidence based on the degree of scientific rigour, she found 7 studies concerning the AV approach of class II level evidence. She concluded that even with the minimal number of studies, there was evidence \"for the validity and effectiveness of the A-V intervention model\". Following on from Rhoades’ work, Hogan et al. (2008; 2010) published outcomes for children in an AV programme which were essentially quasi-experimental studies in that the assessment tool used had been standardised on typically developing children and so a comparison could be drawn between the age equivalence scores obtained by the children on the study and their chronological or ‘hearing’ age. (The hearing age of a child is the duration of time since the child has had optimal access to sound.) In these studies, the average rate of language development increased significantly during the time on the programme compared to the average rate of language development prior to embarking on the programme. Dornan et al. (2009) reviewed the evidence for Auditory Verbal Therapy and concluded that while it was not possible to demonstrate a cause and effect relationship between the intervention and the outcome, increasing the strength of evidence for outcomes was vital. In 2010, Dornan et al. published a longitudinal study comparing the outcomes of 29 children enrolled on an AV programme with age-matched controls. They found AV to be an effective intervention.\n\nFirst Voice (a membership body which represents organisations that provide listening and spoken language therapy in Australia and New Zealand) published a study in February 2015 based on information on more than 600 children with hearing loss. When listening and spoken language outcomes of children with a hearing loss were compared to those with typical hearing most children attending AVT had ‘scores within or above the average range for typical hearing children for language (74.4%-75.6%), vocabulary (79.6%) and speech performance (71.5%). When children with additional disabilities were removed from the analysis, the number of children within or above the average range for typical hearing children increased, except for speech performance (language performance=77.9%-80.2%; vocabulary performance= 83.1%; speech performance=73.1%).’ (First Voice, 2015 pp 5).\n\nIn the UK, access to auditory verbal therapy is currently available at two cochlear implant centres (Paediatric Cochlear Implant Programme, Manchester Auditory Implant Programme and Midlands Hearing Implant Programme - Children's Service). Outside of the NHS AVT is available via award-winning national charity Auditory Verbal (AV)(Oxfordshire and London); The Speech and Hearing and Language Centre, Christopher Place in London; and at the Auditory Verbal Lounge in Nottingham.\n\n"}
{"id": "2741495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2741495", "title": "BUKO Pharma-Kampagne", "text": "BUKO Pharma-Kampagne\n\nBUKO Pharma-Kampagne is an independent organization based in Bielefeld, Germany, which watches over the marketing practices of German pharmaceutical companies.\n\nIt has gained wider recognition after being described in a bestselling novel, \"The Constant Gardener\" by John le Carré. BUKO was mentioned explicitly in the author's afterword as a real counterpart to the novel's fictitious Hippo organisation (also based in Bielefeld, Germany).\n\nBUKO is partially financed by the European Union and mostly by private supporters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53794701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53794701", "title": "Carl Alving", "text": "Carl Alving\n\nCarl Alving is an American internist, currently at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research and an Elected Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.\n"}
{"id": "57812475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57812475", "title": "Chai River Reservoir", "text": "Chai River Reservoir\n\nChai River Reservoir () is a Large Type II reservoir located in Tieling County. It's currently the main drinking water resource of Yinzhou District, Tieling.\n"}
{"id": "30413341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30413341", "title": "Climbing injuries", "text": "Climbing injuries\n\nInjuries in rock climbing may occur due to falls, or due to overuse (see Sports injury). Injuries due to falls are relatively uncommon; the vast majority of injuries result from overuse, most often occurring in the fingers, elbows, and shoulders. Such injuries are often no worse than torn calluses, cuts, burns and bruises. However, overuse symptoms, if ignored, may lead to permanent damage (esp. to tendons, tendon sheaths, ligaments, and joint capsules).\n\nThe climbers most prone to injuries are intermediate to expert within lead climbing or bouldering.\n\nIn terms of overuse injuries a British study found that:\n\nOne injury that tend to be very common among climbers is Carpal tunnel syndrome. It is found in about 25% of climbers.\n\n604 injured rock climbers were prospectively evaluated from January 1998 to December 2001, due to the rapid growth of new complex finger trauma in the mid-1980s. Of the most frequent injuries, three out of four were related to the fingers: pulley injuries accounted for 20%, tendovaginitis for 7%, and joint capsular damage for 6.1%.\n\nDamage to the flexor tendon pulleys that encircle and support the tendons that cross the finger joints is the most common finger injury within the sport (see climber's finger).\nThe main culprit for pulley related injuries is the common crimp grip, especially in the closed position. The crimp grip requires a near ninety-degree flexion of the middle finger joint, which produces a tremendous force load on the A2 pulley. Injuries to the A2 pulley can range from microscopic to partial tears and, in the worst case, complete ruptures. Some climbers report hearing a pop, which might be a sign of a significant tear or complete rupture, during an extremely heavy move (e.g. tiny crimp, one- or two-finger pocket). Small partial tears, or inflammation can occur over the course of several sessions.\n\n\n\nShoulder related injuries include rotator cuff tear, strain or tendinitis, biceps tendinitis and SLAP lesion.\n\nTennis elbow (Lateral Epicondylitis) is a common elbow injury among climbers, as is Golfer's elbow (Medial Epicondylitis, which is similar, but occurs on the inside of the elbow).\n\nClimbers often develop calluses on their fingers from regular contact with the rock and the rope. When calluses split open they expose a raw layer of skin that can be very painful. This type of injury is commonly referred to as a flapper.\n\nThe use of magnesium carbonate (chalk) for better grip dries out the skin and can often lead to cracked and damaged hands \n\nThere are a number of skincare products available for climbers that help to treat calluses, moisturise dry hands and reduce recovery time.\n\n\"Any finger injury that is sustained by a young adolescent (12–16) should be seen by a physician and have x-rays performed. These skeletally immature athletes are very susceptible to developing debilitating joint arthritis later in adulthood.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "47677278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47677278", "title": "Diabetes in Aboriginal Australians", "text": "Diabetes in Aboriginal Australians\n\nDiabetes, in particular, non-insulin dependent diabetes, is prevalent in the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander populations of Australia. As many as 1 in 20 Australians are said to suffer from diabetes, and of this amount, Aboriginals are three times as likely to succumb to this disease, in comparison to non-Aboriginals. In contrast with type 1 diabetes, which is a predisposed autoimmune condition, type 2 diabetes or insulin resistant diabetes, is a preventable disease, heavily influenced by a multitude of socioeconomic factors. Sufferers of the disease are consequently more susceptible to chronic health issues, including heart disease and renal failure. Conclusively, this has contributed to the 17 year life expectancy gap between Aboriginals and non-Aboriginals and in turn, has led to disparity and inequity of health between Aboriginals and non-Aboriginals.\n\nThe history of Aboriginal Australians is said to have spanned some 60,000 years prior to colonization, yet they were first cited by Europeans in 1606. Further investigations of the land over the years leading to James Cook's arrival in 1788, suggested that the Aboriginals were hunter gatherers, who were described as beasts who roamed the land. Fully utilising the resources at their disposal, the diet of the early Aboriginals was predominantly made up of land animals, fish and shellfish, as well as birds and plant foods. Post colonisation, the Aboriginals experienced excessive disruptions to their socioeconomic circumstances and thus, this has seen a rapid decline in their health status. Forced to assimilate into a white, European Society, Aboriginals abandoned their traditional way of living and reluctantly adopted those of the colony. Over time this has seen the introduction of sugar and refined foods into the diet of Aboriginal Australians, initially to sever existing connections to the land. Aboriginals have since viewed sugar as an important cultural food, bringing with it, family identities and reinforcing connections. Hence, Aboriginals have since become highly vulnerable to suffering from conditions such as diabetes.\n\nThe prevalence of type 2 diabetes, obesity and the corresponding diseases that are associated with this condition, are often attributed to the European influences at the time of colonisation. Sugar and refined foods were used at this time as a means of detaching Aboriginals from the land and assimilating them into white society. Consequently, Aboriginal Australians have likened certain traditions and memories to the use of sugar. Thus, the ‘westernisation’ of Aboriginal communities forced the neglect of a nutrient-dense diet and thus, cemented the foundation for this prevailing condition.\n\nRemoteness of Aboriginal communities and disparity in socioeconomic circumstances has also contributed to the prevalence of diabetes in Aboriginal Australians. Consequently, refined foods have seemingly replaced healthy alternatives, as communities are denied access to fresh and healthy foods due to limited available resources. Similarly, many Aboriginals are said to live in poverty, with community’s dependant on welfare and most being plagued by unemployment. Thus, recognising their need to be frugal with their money, and in turn, only being able to afford energy dense, filling foods, which are often high in fats and sugar. Hence, there is a direct correlation between the disparity of wealth, obesity and subsequent morbidity. Consequently, this is a main contributor to Aboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders being 2-4 more times likely to suffer from this condition.\n\nHealth inequalities in society and lack of education can also contribute to the higher diagnosis of diabetes among Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders.\n\nSimilarly, Aboriginal people are recognised as not utilising the health resources at their disposal. As a result, Australian Aboriginals are said to be lacking in diabetes education and the subsequent monitoring of glucose levels, making them more susceptible to diabetes related problems as well as lack of educational knowledge and ill-informed in making decisions in regards to their health.\n\nAboriginal infants are also said to have relatively lower birth weights than normal, which can also contribute to early incidences of type 2 diabetes.\n\nAs well as being genetically predisposition are found commonly in young-onset diabetic patients. Diabetes is not a single gene disease, autoimmunity, rare gene variants and a common variant may be present in a single individual. type 2 diabetes is also associated with obesity and other cardiovascular factors and lifestyle influences. Thus, those with high blood pressure, a poor diet, insufficient physical activity and are overweight/ obese, and in the case of Aboriginal Australians, are over the age of 35, are increasingly more susceptible to suffering from type 2 diabetes.\n\nGestational diabetes refers to gluten intolerance diabetes diagnosed during pregnancy and is highly common among Aboriginal Australians.\n\nType 2 diabetes is a detrimental condition commonly affecting Aboriginal Australians. It is closely associated with obesity and is often a precursor for subsequent preventable diseases, including cardiovascular and renal disease. Hence, diabetes is a major cause of the premature mortality of many Aboriginal Australians.\n\nIncreased occurrence of renal complications among Aboriginals is attributed to environmental and genetic factors, as well as poor monitoring of glucose levels. Low birth weight causing lower renal volume, post infectious renal damage and obesity are also characteristically associated with chronic kidney disease and end stage renal failure. Consequently, Australian Aboriginals are 8 times more likely to suffer from incidences of kidney failure than non-Aboriginal Australians.\n\nSimilarly, cardiovascular disease is the single greatest contributor to the disparity in life expectancy between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians. Obesity and increased waist circumference is an important risk factor, along with other modifiable influences including smoking, high blood pressure, high cholesterol levels, low levels of physical activity. All of which contribute to the incidence of diabetes and consequently, cardiovascular disease.Moreover Gestational Diabetes is also a complication in pregnant women which not not only causes harm to pregnant women but it leads to the birth complication of the fetus as well as it also transfres diabetes to the fetus from mother .\n\nThe prevalence of type 2 diabetes in Aboriginal Australians can also lead to retinotherapy, whereby blood vessels in the eye are damaged as a direct result of this condition. Peripheral neuropathy is also common in diabetes patients and in some cases can lead to chronic foot problems and even amputations.\n\nHealth issues affecting Aboriginal Australians, including the incidence of type 2 diabetes, are often likened to disparities in socioeconomic status. Often, the greater the social and economic disadvantage, the greater the occurrence of diabetes and other associated conditions. Thus, improvements in the socioeconomic status and the decrease in disparity and health inequality are detrimental if the incidence of diabetes and the associated conditions are to be reduced.\n\nEarly detection programs and diabetes screenings are essential in reducing the frequency of diabetes and its long-term effects. Moreover regular weight assessment should be done. Promotion of healthy eating and physical activity, smoking cessation and the safe consumption of alcohol are also vital to reduce and prevent type 2 diabetes. The Australian government has addressed the need for such intervention by implementing the National Prevention of Type 2 Diabetes program. Arguably, such programs need to be supported by efforts to provide greater employment and educational opportunities for Aboriginal Australians and health programs tailored to their favoured holistic approach to health and wellbeing.\n\nOne in 20 Australian adults had diabetes in 2011–2012.\n\nAboriginals and Torres Strait Islanders are 2–4 times more likely to suffer from diabetes than other non-indigenous groups.\n\nEvidence of diabetes among Aboriginals is apparent as early as 25 years of age. Approximately 18% of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders over the age of 25 reported having diabetes or high blood sugar levels. The rates range from 5% for those in the 25 years age bracket and increasing to 39% for those aged 55 years and over.\n\nIn 2012–2013, approximately 8% of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders reported that they had diabetes or high blood sugar levels. Females were more likely than men to suffer from diabetes, with 10% claiming to suffer from the condition, in comparison to 7% of males.\n"}
{"id": "54748148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54748148", "title": "Emergency childbirth", "text": "Emergency childbirth\n\nEmergency childbirth is the birth of an infant in places or situations other than what was planned. In most cases the location of childbirth is planned ahead of time and may be at home, a hospital, a medical facility or a birthing center. In other situations, the birth occurs on the way to these facilities. Oftentimes, no trained medical personnel are present, other times there may be police or other first responders. Emergency measures for delivery are indicated when childbirth is imminent.\n\nEach year more than 250,000 women around the world die from complications due to childbirth or pregnancy, with bleeding and hypertension as the leading causes. Many of these deaths are preventable by emergency care, which include antibiotics, drugs that stimulate contraction of the uterus, anti-seizure drugs, blood transfusion, and delivery of baby with assistance (vacuum or forceps delivery) or C-section.\n\nIn 2012, 1.36% of births took place outside of a hospital, and this number has been increasing over the last 30 years. This is likely a combination of more home deliveries and deliveries at birth centers, with 66% occurring at home and 29% in birthing centers. In a study of home deliveries in the US and Canada, about 12% of attempted home deliveries required urgent transport to hospital for more specialized care. Reasons for transfer include failure of labor to progress, maternal exhaustion or need for more pain medication, or maternal/fetal complications (see below).\n\nPregnant women usually seek medical care throughout pregnancy and plan for the birth of a baby with a healthcare team. In an emergency childbirth situation, it is recommended to seek further education and make a plan.\n\nEarly Preparation\n\nMany childbirth education classes cover emergency birth procedures. Parents are trained to learn the signs of early labor or other indications that may require assistance. Caregivers can take a class on infant and child life support. Some recommend having a kit of emergency supplies in the home such as: clean towels, sheets, clean scissors, sterile gloves, sanitary pads, diapers, and instructions for infant-rescue breathing.\n\nLate Preparation\n\nAdditional help may be found by calling 911 (in the United States) or an applicable number to get emergency medical services or nearby medical staff.\n\nA vehicle driven safely toward medical care may be considered an acceptable option during the first stage of labor (dilation and effacement). During the second stage of labor (pushing and birth), a vehicle is usually stopped unless imminently arriving at a medical facility. If a vehicle is taken, additional occupants can support the mother and baby should assist in delivery. The mother and baby are kept warm throughout.\n\nIf unable to reach a medical facility, a safe building with walls and a roof are sought that will provide protection from the environment. A warm and dry area with a bed is preferable.\n\nSupplies are collected for both the mother and the baby. Possible supplies may include blankets, pillows, towels, warm clean water, warm water bottles, soap, clean towels, baby clothes, sheets, sterile gloves, sanitary pads, diapers, identification tags for mother and baby, and instructions for infant-rescue breathing. A bed may be prepared for the baby with a basket or box lined with a blanket or sheets. Items are needed to clamp or tie the umbilical cord in two places. Shoestrings or strips of a sheet folded into narrow bands may be used. These items can be sterilized by boiling (20 minutes) or soaking in alcohol (up to 3 hours). Scissors or a knife are needed to cut the umbilical cord and may be sterilized with the same procedure.\n\nA background obstetric history should be obtained: how many prior births has the patient had (if this is not her first birth, the patient's labor could be short), how many weeks along is she or what is her estimated date of delivery, any special concerns related to this pregnancy such as being told she has twins, being told she has a complication, or even if she has received regular prenatal care. Any other relevant medical history, allergies, drugs, recent signs of infections (fever) should be asked.\n\nSigns and Symptoms \nPhysical Exam\n\nIf time permits and if trained: one should obtain vital signs to include maternal heart rate, respiratory rate, blood pressure, temperature, and oxygen rate.\n\nThe patient should be draped with available blankets for privacy.\n\nThe patient's abdomen should be examined and felt for the presence of contractions, and the intensity, frequency, and length of contractions should be noted.\n\nWith the patient's permission and privacy, an exam of the pelvic area should be performed; in general, one would:\nAfter the physical exam and if the patient is not crowning, the patient should be placed in the left lateral decubitus position (laying on her left side).\n\nFirst stage of labor: dilation and effacement of the cervix (before the baby comes out)\n\nThis stage of labor may last from 2 to 18 hours. Further care may be sought during this time. \nSecond stage: cervix is dilated (the baby is coming out)\n\nThis stage may last from 5 minutes to 3 hours. \nThird stage of labor: the delivery of the placenta\n\nThe baby is attached to the placenta by the umbilical cord. After the cord is cut, the placenta is usually still inside the mother. The placenta usually comes out in 2–10 minutes, but it may take up to 60 minutes.\n\nComplications of emergency childbirth include the complications that occur during normal childbirth. Maternal complications include perineal tearing during delivery, excessive bleeding (postpartum hemorrhage), retained products of conception in the uterus, hypertension, and seizures.\n\nIn a pregnant woman, 40% of the circulating blood volume is in the uterus. This creates a large bleeding potential and high risk of hemorrhagic shock (low blood pressure from loss of circulating blood). For this reason, constant vigilance is important if any of the following occur:\n\n- Vaginal bleeding early or late in pregnancy\n\n- Severe abdominal pain\n\n- Trauma (such as a fall or car accident) while pregnant\n\n- Uncontrolled vaginal bleeding after the baby is delivered\n\n- Inability to remove the entire placenta after the baby is delivered\n\nCauses of vaginal bleeding early in pregnancy include miscarriage (inevitable or incomplete abortion), embryo implantation and growth outside the uterus (ectopic pregnancy), and placenta attachment at the bottom of the uterus over the cervix (placenta previa), all of which can cause significant bleeding.\n\nBleeding after the first trimester and during delivery\n\nPrior to and during delivery, bleeding can also occur from tears in the cervix, vagina, or perineum, sudden placental detachment (abruptio placenta) and placental attachment over the cervix (placenta previa), and uterine rupture.\n\nBleeding after delivery (postpartum hemorrhage)\n\nAfter delivery of the baby, a uterus that is not contracting (atonic uterus), ruptured uterus, remaining parts of placenta or baby or infected remaining parts of placenta or baby can cause severe bleeding. Postpartum bleeding is usually managed preventatively by massaging the lower abdomen (fundal massage), which increases contraction of the uterus and stops bleeding. Additionally, steady traction is applied to the cord to prevent trauma, cord avulsion (tearing of the umbilical cord), uterine inversion, and retained placental products, all of which can increase blood loss and/or the risk of infection.\n\nPostpartum hemorrhage is defined by loss of more than 500 mL blood within 24 hours after delivery. It is difficult to predict with few known risk factors and occurs in 3% of women, leading to ~150,000 annual deaths worldwide. Once uncontrolled bleeding occurs, management can be manual (fundal massage from the outside, packing the uterus, tamponading bleeding from the inside with balloon or condom catheter), and pharmacological (with oxytocin, ergotamine, misoprostol). Alongside these treatments, shock should be addressed with IV fluids or blood transfusions as discussed below.\n\nSevere blood loss leading to shock\n\nIn shock, you may see cold clammy skin, pale skin (especially around eyes, mouth, and hands), sweating, anxiousness, and loss of consciousness. You may note a fast heartbeat (110 beats per minute or more), low blood pressure (90mmHg systolic or less), and decreased urine output.\n\nThe woman should be laid on her left side, with legs and buttocks elevated to encourage blood flow back to the heart with gravity. If available, IV fluids (Ringer’s lactate or normal saline) should be started with monitoring of her heart rate, blood pressure, and appearance. If available, two large bore IV catheters (16-gauge or largest available) should be used to rapidly infuse 1L in 15–20 minutes, with a goal of giving 2L in the first hour. If unable to start an IV and the woman is able to drink and is conscious with no recent convulsions, give 300-500 mL of fluid by mouth. If the woman is unable to drink, is unconscious, or has recently had convulsions, fluid can be given rectally with an enema bag or can. Fill the enema with 500mL IV fluid, clamp the end of the tube and insert 10 cm (3-4inches) into the rectum. If filling an enema, run water slowly or cramping can occur, pushing the water back out.\n\nConvulsions (Seizures) in pregnancy can be caused by pregnancy specific causes of seizures such as eclampsia and by normal causes of seizures such as epilepsy. Warning signs that may lead to convulsions include pre-eclamsia, which is a condition that pregnant women can get after 20 weeks of pregnancy that is characterized by new-onset high blood pressure, headaches, blurry vision, trouble breathing from fluid in lungs, protein in urine from kidney failure, and elevated liver enzymes from liver dysfunction, and possibly coagulation defects from platelet dysfunction.\n\nIf a pregnant woman begins to have convulsions, additional help and assistance should be sought. One should not restrain the patient, but lie her down on her left side and check the airway (mouth, nose, throat). Turning the patient on her side decreases risk of breathing in vomit and spit. If available, magnesium sulfate is the preferred treatment for seizures in pregnant women, starting with a dose of 4 mg IV over 5 minutes. A sensation of warmth during infusion is normal, however, there is also a risk of stopping breathing with magnesium sulfate use, which would indicate the dosage is too high. If this occurs, calcium gluconate can be used to reverse the effects (1g IV over 10 minutes, often in solution). In general, make sure the breathing rate is at least 16 breaths per minute and the knee jerk reflex is still intact before giving more magnesium sulfate. If magnesium sulfate is unavailable, diazepam can be used to treat convulsions in pregnancy. The first dose, the loading dose, should be 10 mg of diazepam IV given over 2 minutes. After this, the loading dose can be repeated. The maintenance dose is 40 mg of diazepam in 500mL IV fluids. The amount of diazepam used should never be more than 100 mg in 24 hours and it should be dosed in order to keep the woman awake, rousable, and breathing rate above 16 breaths per minute\n\nAlmost 10% of newborns require some resuscitative care. Common complications of childbirth that relate to the baby include breech presentation, shoulder dystocia, infection, and umbilical cord wrapped around the baby's neck (nuchal cord).\n\nEvaluation\n\nThe newborn is evaluated at 1 and 5 minutes after birth using the Apgar score, which assigns points based on appearance (color), pulse, grimace (cry), activity (muscle tone), and respiration (breathing effort), with each component scored from 0 to 2. Scores below 7 generally require further care (see resuscitation below).\n\nRoutine care\n\nAfter initial evaluation, babies with good Apgar scores are dried and rubbed, any obstruction of breathing is cleared, and they are warmed either with skin-to-skin contact with the mother or under a heat source.\n\nWith United States home births as an estimate, neonatal complications are common, with cord wrapped around the head 12-37% of the time (nuchal cord), insufficient oxygenation (birth asphyxia) 9% of the time, pulselessness 6% of the time, and breech presentation 3% of the time\n\nBreech Presentation\nNormally, the head is the first part of the body to present out of the birth canal. However, other parts such as the buttocks or feet can present first, which is referred to as breech presentation. Risk for breech presentation may increase with multiple pregnancies (more than one baby), when there is too little or too much fluid in the uterus, or if the uterus is abnormally shaped. Babies in breech presentation can be delivered vaginally depending on the experience of the provider and if the fetus meets specific low risk criteria, however C-section is recommended if available. Ideally, vaginal breech delivery should not be performed without the availability of nearby emergency C-section capabilities and extensive efforts should be made to bring a woman in labor with breech presentation to a hospital. There are many variations of breech presentations and multiple ways the baby can get stuck during delivery. If a breech delivery is occurring, the provider will guide the hips out by giving light, downward traction holding the pelvis until the scapula is present. Then at the level of the armpits, each shoulder is delivered by rotating the baby as required, then subsequently rotating 180 degrees to deliver the other shoulder. The head is delivered with careful attention to the baby's arms. The arms will be delivered downwards through the vulva and may have to be gently held downwards by the provider's fingers.\n\nPre-term labor\n\nIncidence of preterm delivery is approximately 12%, and preterm births are a significant contributing cause of unplanned emergency delivery. Pre-term labor is defined as occurring before 37 weeks, and risks for pre-term labor include pregnancy with multiple fetuses, prior history of premature labor, structural abnormalities of the cervix or uterus, urinary tract, vaginal, or sexually transmitted infections, high blood pressure, drug use, diabetes, blood disorders, or pregnancy occurring less than 6 months after a prior pregnancy. The same principles of term emergency delivery apply to emergency delivery for a preterm fetus, though the baby will be at higher risk of other problems such as low birth weight, trouble breathing, and infections. The newborn will need additional medical care and monitoring after delivery and should be taken to a hospital providing neonatal care, which may include antibiotics and breathing treatments.\n\nShoulder dystocia\n\nIn shoulder dystocia, the shoulder is trapped after the head is delivered, preventing delivery of the rest of the baby. The major risk factor (other than prior history of shoulder dystocia) is the baby being too large (macrosomia), which can result from the mother being obese or gaining too much weight, diabetes, and the pregnancy lasting too long (post-term pregnancy). Shoulder dystocia can lead to further fetal complications such as nerve compression and injury at the shoulder (brachial plexus), fracture of the collarbone, and low oxygen for the fetus (whether due to compression of the umbilical cord or due to inability of the baby to breathe). Shoulder dystocia is often signaled by retreat of the head between contractions when it has already been delivered (\"turtle sign\"). Treatment includes the McRoberts maneuver, where the mother flexes her thighs up to her stomach with her knees wide apart as pressure is applied on her lower abdomen, and Woods' screw maneuver, where the deliverer inserts a hand into the vagina to rotate the fetus. If all maneuvers fail, then C-section would be indicated.\n\nProlapsed Cord\nA prolapsed cord refers to an umbilical cord that is delivered from the uterus while the baby is still in the uterus and is life-threatening to the baby. Cord prolapse creates a risk of decreased blood flow (and oxygen flow) to the baby as delivery will cause cord compression. However, if the cord delivers before the baby, the cord should not be placed back into the uterus through the cervix since this increases risk of infection. Emergent obstetric care for C-section would be indicated, and in the meantime, one should elevate the foot of the bed if possible to attempt to keep the baby above the level of the cord. If no specialized care is available, one may attempt to reduce pressure of the cord manually and continue delivery, but also being prepared to clamp and cut the cord if needed.\n\nNuchal Cord\n\nAfter the baby crowns, the umbilical cord may be found to be wrapped around the neck or body of the baby, which is known as nuchal cord. This is common, occurring in up to 37% of term pregnancies, and most do not cause any long-term problems. This wrapped cord should be slipped over the head so it is not pulled during delivery. If the wrap is not removed, it can choke the baby or can cause the placenta to detach suddenly which can cause severe maternal bleeding and loss of blood and oxygen to the baby. The cord may also be wrapped around a limb in breech presentation, and should similarly be reduced in these cases.\n\nResuscitation\n\nIf the baby is not doing well on its own, further care may be necessary. Resuscitation typically starts with warming, drying, and stimulating the newborn. If breathing difficulty is noted, the airway is opened and cleared with suction and oxygen is monitored; if necessary, one may consider using a positive airway pressure ventilator (which gives oxygen while keeping the airway open) or intubation. If the heart rate is below 60 beats per minute, CPR is started at 3:1 compression to ventilation ratio, with compressions given at the lower breastbone. If this fails to revive the newborn, epinephrine will be given.\n\nResuscitation is not indicated for newborns below 22 weeks of gestation and weighing below 400 grams. Resuscitation may also be discontinued if the baby's heart does not start after 10–15 minutes of full resuscitation (including breathing treatments, medications, and CPR).\n\nThe reports of emergency childbirth are typically of general interest. A mobile app was developed in Ethiopia that guides users through the procedures of assisting with an emergency birth.\n"}
{"id": "43676973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43676973", "title": "Esther McCready", "text": "Esther McCready\n\nEsther McCready (born January 10, 1931) is a retired nurse and teacher who desegregated the University of Maryland School of Nursing in 1950. The case was filed in 1949 in Baltimore City Court by National Association for the Advancement of Colored People lawyers Charles Hamilton Houston and Donald Gaines Murray (McCready v. Byrd, 1949). After the court sided with the university, the case went to the Maryland Court of Appeals where it was argued by Houston, Murray, and Thurgood Marshall The lower court’s ruling was overturned by the Maryland Court of Appeals and McCready began classes on September 5, 1950. She is in the Maryland Women's Hall of Fame. \n\nAfter she graduated in 1953, McCready continued her career working for Druid Health Center, Morgan State University as Head Nurse, Cornell Medical Center in Post-Operative Recovery, Harlem Hospital in the Emergency Room, and at New York University. Her career also included years as a general education teacher in public school in New York. In addition to nursing, McCready attended the Manhattan School of Music where she earned a Master's degree. She participated in traveling Opera groups who toured around United States and Europe. \n\nEsther McCready was born in Baltimore, Maryland. Her parents, John and Elizabeth McCready, both were not involved in medicine or politics. She grew up with three other siblings in a loving household. From a young age, Esther always knew she wanted to be in the nursing field from watching the way nurses worked during her visits to the hospital for routine check-ups. \n\n"}
{"id": "9967037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9967037", "title": "Gac", "text": "Gac\n\nGấc (\"Momordica cochinchinensis\") is a type of perennial vine grown throughout Southeast Asian countries and Northeastern Australia. Gấc is notable for its orange-reddish color resulting from its rich content of beta-carotene and lycopene.\n\nAs gac was originally discovered in Vietnam, it is commonly called by its Vietnamese name (gấc, ). The fruit may also be called \"quả gấc\" as \"quả\" means \"fruit\" in English, and has various common names.\n\nBy its scientific name, \"cochinchinensis\" originates from the name for southern Vietnam during the period of French colonization, Cochinchina. Momordica is a genus belonging to the Cucurbitaceae family, including bitter cucumber.\n\nAround 200 years ago, the Portuguese priest, J. Lourciso, visited Vietnam and discovered the plant. He gave it the name \"Muricia cochinchinensis\" in the book \"Flora Cochinchinesis\" published in 1790. Later, Sprengel found that the plant belonged to the Linnean genus \"Momordica\" and changed its name in 1826.\n\nGac grows as dioecious vines, meaning its male and female flowers are on separate plants, producing flowers typically in length. Its vines can extend to long, and its flowers blooms once a year, single or in bundle, around 2–3 months after the vines are planted. In one season, a plant can produce from 30 to 60 fruits. Approximately five months after flowering, the ripe bright-red fruits can be harvested, usually over September to December annually.\n\nTypically, gac fruits are round or oblong, about in length and in diameter, covered with small spines on the exocarp. Upon ripening, gac gradually changes colors, from green to yellow, orange and finally red when it can be harvested. At this time, the fruit is hard, but turns soft quickly, creating a challenge for storage and transportation.\n\nGac fruit has a mild taste and dense flesh (mesocarp). The inside of a gac fruit comprises two parts: fruit (yellow) and seed membrane (red color). Larger fruits have a higher percentage of edible aril than smaller fruits.\n\nAs gac plant is dioecious, both male and female plants are needed; hence, farmers must have at least one corresponding male plant growing in or around the gardens for the fruit-bearing female plants to be pollinated. In order to breed, gac can change sex, and may change from one season to the next. When grown from seed, the ratio of male to female plants is unpredictable.\n\nPollination may be facilitated by insects, but hand pollination results in a higher fruit yield. New plants can also be generated from root tubers as a more reliable method to yield fruits, because germination by seeds can be difficult due to several environmental factors such as dormancy or plant age. An alternative method is to graft female material onto the main shoot of a male plant.\n\nFor maximum insect-aided pollination, the recommended ratio is about 1 male for every 10 female plants. If propagating from vines, farmers make diagonal cut (around long and wide), then root the tubers in water or well-aerated, moist potting media before planting.\n\nApart from Southeast Asian countries where the fruits are native, gac can be grown in sub-tropical climate regions. Cool temperatures inhibit growth.\n\nGac has been commonly used in its native countries, mainly as food and traditional medicine. Its use as medicine dated back to over 1200 years ago in China and Vietnam Gac seeds, known as \"mù biē zǐ\" (meaning 'wooden turtle seed'), are used for a variety of internal and topical purposes in traditional medicine.\n\nThe aril surrounding gac seeds when the fruits are ripe is cooked with sticky rice to make “Xôi Gấc”, a traditional Vietnamese dish in red color served at weddings and New Year celebrations. In addition, the immature green fruit is also used as a vegetable in India. The spiny skin is removed and the fruits are sliced and cooked sometimes with potato or bottle gourd. In Sri Lanka, gac is used in curry, and in Thailand, gac is served with ice cream.\n\nDue to the high contents of beta-carotene and lycopene, extracts from gac aril are used to manufacture dietary supplements in soft capsules or included in a juice blend. Vietnamese children fed a rice dish containing gấc had higher blood levels of beta-carotene than those not fed gac.\n\nVarious studies show gac contains large amounts of beta-carotene and lycopene. Both aril and seeds are rich in monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids. Seventy percent of total fatty acids in the aril are unsaturated, and 50% of these are polyunsaturated. Unusual for fruits, gac has a high concentration of linoleic acid (omega-6) and omega-3 fatty acids. The presence of fat in the gac fruit aril may enhance absorption of carotenoids and other fat-soluble nutrients, as indicated in preliminary research to increase their bioavailability compared to carrots and tomatoes. Despite the high levels of fatty acids and other nutrients in gac seeds, they are normally discarded, becoming waste products.\n"}
{"id": "33625188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33625188", "title": "Halali Reservoir", "text": "Halali Reservoir\n\nThe Halali reservoir is a reservoir in the Raisen district of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is built on the Halali River, and lies 40 km away from the state capital Bhopal.\n\nThe major fish species found in the reservoir include catla, rohu, mrigal, wallago attu, mystus and chitala.\n\nThe Halali River is a tributary of the Betwa River. It was formerly known as Thal River. In the 18th century, Dost Mohammad Khan's forces killed a rival Rajput force near Jagdishpur (later renamed to Islamnagar) on the bank of the river. The river was renamed to \"Halali river\" (the river of slaughter), because it appeared red with the blood of the victims. Another name for the river is Banganga.\n\nThe Halali reservoir was commissioned in 1973.\n"}
{"id": "1054520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1054520", "title": "Hatzalah", "text": "Hatzalah\n\nHatzalah (\"rescue\" or \"relief\" in ) is a volunteer emergency medical service (EMS) organization serving mostly Jewish communities around the world. Most local branches operate independently of each other, but use the common name. The Hebrew spelling of the name is always the same, but there are many variations in transliteration, such as Hatzolah, Hatzoloh and Hatzola. It is also often called Chevra Hatzalah, which loosely translates as \"Company of Rescuers\" or \"Group of Rescuers.\"\n\nThe original Hatzalah EMS was founded in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York, USA by Rabbi Hershel Weber in the late 1960s, to improve rapid emergency medical response in the community, and to mitigate cultural concerns of a Yiddish-speaking, religious Hasidic community. The idea spread to other Orthodox Jewish neighborhoods in the New York City area, and eventually to other regions, countries, and continents. Hatzalah is believed to be the largest volunteer ambulance service in the world. Chevra Hatzalah in New York has more than a thousand volunteer EMTs and paramedics who answer more than 70,000 calls each year with private vehicles and a fleet of more than 90 ambulances.\n\nHatzalah organizations now function in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Israel, Mexico, Panama, Russia, South Africa, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Ukraine, and in 10 states in the US: California, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Michigan. Hatzalah branches are currently being organized in other states as well.\n\nIn Israel, there are two Hatzalah organizations operating on the national level, Ichud Hatzalah (), Hebrew for, \"United Hatzalah\", and Tzevet Hatzalah (Hebrew: צוות הצלה). While United Hatzalah is unarguably the larger of the two organizations, their volunteers are limited to direct response on scene care, versus Tzevet Hatzalah volunteers which are additionally licensed and authorized to provide emergency transport utilizing Magen David Adom ambulances.\n\nHatzalah uses a fly-car system, where members are assigned ad-hoc to respond to the emergency. The dispatcher requests any units for a particular emergency location. Members who think they will have best response times respond via handheld radios, and the dispatcher confirms the appropriate members. Two members will typically respond directly to the call in their private vehicles. A third member retrieves an ambulance from a base location.\n\nEach directly dispatched Hatzolah volunteer has a full medical technician \"jump kit,\" in their car, with oxygen, trauma, and appropriate pharmaceutical supplies. Paramedic (EMT-P) members carry more extensive equipment and supplies, including EKG, IV, injection, intubation, and more pharmaceuticals. Each volunteer is called a \"unit\" (as in, a crew of one), and is assigned a unit number that starts with a neighborhood code, followed by a serial number for that neighborhood (e.g., \"Q-381\" means \"Queens unit number 381\"). Ambulances also have unit numbers in the same format, with the first few numbers for each neighborhood reserved for the ambulance numbers. Some neighborhoods have begun to assign 3-digit unit numbers to their ambulances, using numbers out of the range assigned to human member units (e.g. 900-numbers).\n\nIn some areas there may be periods where coverage is not strong enough, for example on a summer weekend. When this happens, coordinators may assign an on-call rotation. The rotation may still respond from their houses, or they may stay at the garage through their shift. In such periods, Hatzalah functions closer to a typical EMS crew setup, though the dispatchers may still seek non-on-call members to respond, and there will still often be a non-ambulance responder as first dispatched, even if that responder starts from the base.\n\nIn Israel, United Hatzalah relies upon mobile phone technologies which include an SOS app and a special emergency phone number, 1221, with messages to news organizations distributed by WhatsApp.\n\nHatzalah's model provides for speedy first responder response times. Each Hatzalah neighborhood's response time varies. For example, in Borough Park, Brooklyn daytime response in life threatening emergency are between 1-2 minutes and nighttime response times are 5-6 minutes. In the Beverly-La Brea neighborhood of Los Angeles response times average at sixty to ninety seconds.\n\nHatzalah is not a single organization. Each chapter operates autonomously, or in some cases, with varying levels of affiliation with neighboring Hatzalah chapters.\n\nIn New York City's Hatzalah, there is a very simple operational hierarchy. Usually, there are two or three members who are \"coordinators,\" managing all operations aspects of the chapter.\n\nAs Orthodox Jews, many volunteers see each other daily during prayers, and especially on Shabbat. This allows them to remain organized despite the lack of an extensive formal hierarchy.\n\nThe coordinators are responsible for recruitment, interaction with municipal agency operations (police, fire, and EMS), first-line discipline, and day-to-day operations. The coordinators often are responsible, directly or via delegation, for arranging maintenance crews, who are often called service members or service units, and for purchasing supplies, ambulances, and other equipment. There is also an administrative function, often separate from the coordinator function. The chief administrator is often called a director or executive director, and this is sometimes a paid position. All other positions in Hatzalah, including coordinators, are held by unpaid volunteers.\n\nMost of the New York State branches have some centralized administration and dispatch functions, known as \"Central Hatzalah,\" or simply, \"Central.\" The neighborhood organizations under Central are nevertheless independent. Most Hatzalah organizations pattern themselves after the Williamsburg and Central models (see operational descriptions below).\n\nFormally, the New York City-area \"Central Hatzalah\" is called Chevra Hatzalah of New York. It combines dispatch and some other functions for over a dozen neighborhood organizations, including Williamsburg, Flatbush, Borough Park, Canarsie, Lower East Side, Upper West Side, Midtown, Washington Heights, Queens, Rockaways & Nassau County, Seagate, Catskills, Staten Island, Riverdale, and others. As each of these areas is otherwise independent, each has its own fundraising, management, garages, ambulances, and assigned members. Rockland County, NY branches have a centralized dispatch system as well, but their central organization is separate from the other New York State centralized functions, and they have a looser relationship with their New York State brethren, though there is a great deal of cooperation among them. Together, the combined New York State branches have grown to become the largest all-volunteer ambulance system in the United States.\n\nWithin Israel the largest local organization is Magen David Adom.\n\nOutside of New York and Israel, there are many smaller Hatzalah organizations. Each of these operates as a self-contained unit, with no centralized organization or coordination. However, where there are other Hatzalahs nearby, there is often a great deal of cooperation.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Hatzalah use blue lights and sirens on their ambulances, but cannot legally do so on private vehicles.\n\nHatzalah organizations are often involved in other community activities, on top of their primary mission of emergency medical work. Many neighborhood chapters sponsor and participate in community events, both within the local Jewish community, and in the broader community.\n\nFlatbush Hatzalah frequently plays softball against teams from local police precincts, firehouses, and hospitals.\n\nHatzalah of Passaic/Clifton works with the local Bikur Cholim to put on a yearly Health & Safety Fair at no charge to the community, with participation from both Jewish and non-Jewish presenters, said to get a turnout possibly exceeding 25% of the local community.\n\nMany Hatzalahs worldwide run public relations campaigns related to safe drinking on Purim and fire safety on Chanukah and during Passover preparations. Chevra Hatzolah in New York works closely with the FDNY on this matter.\n\nA number of items that are either unique to Hatzalah, or that are relatively unusual for an EMS include: Thumper\nMost EMS rely on crews with scheduled shifts operating from a known location. Due to its members and the communities they serve usually living in proximity, Hatzolah relies little on scheduled crews and stations and rather has all service members on call 24/7 and members responding from wherever they are.\n\nLanguage, religion, and culture barriers create challenges for an emergency medical service. Hatzalah is built to consider these challenges, especially with regard to halacha (Jewish law) and communities that only speak Yiddish or Hebrew.\n\nA Jew reluctant to violate Sabbath rules when receiving medical attention may be more at ease and easily convinced of the medical urgency, when the EMT or paramedic is a fellow Orthodox Jew. A female worried about physical modesty and contact is helped by knowing that a Jewish provider is aware of the details of her concerns, and will act to reduce the problem as much as possible.\n\nHatzalah was the subject of controversy as articles in the \"New York Post\" and \"JEMS Magazine\" criticize the organization for its discriminatory practice of not allowing women to join. The group of Orthodox women founded an organization called “Ezras Nashim” an all-female Orthodox Jewish volunteer EMT ambulance service, they cited the need for modesty and sensitivity to the needs of fellow Orthodox women, with the goal of preserving women’s modesty in emergency medical situations, especially childbirth. \"This is a woman's job. Historically, women have always delivered babies in traditional Jewish values, pointing to the Hebrew Bible Book of Exodus where the first midwives were women Shiphrah and Puah. In our community, women also have a very strong motivation to seek female doctors,\" said their lawyer, Rachel Freier, a Brooklyn Civil Court Judge and Orthodox Jewish mother of six.\n\nNew York State Assembly member Dov Hikind announced on his radio show his support for Ezras Nashim and he was criticized by Hatzalah. The group received approval from their community's leading rabbis, including prominent Rabbi Yechezkel Roth of Karlsburg. Until now, Hatzolah has operated under this controversial policy, despite receiving public funding, such as the nearly half a million dollars in funding to overhaul the communication system at Hatzolah’s new command center in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn.\n\nIn areas where the EMS charges a fee, lower income clientele lacking health insurance may have a reluctance to call for an ambulance unless the evidence of urgency is overwhelming. A volunteer service, with less overhead costs, tends to reduce that reluctance. Hatzolah will often handle \"check-out\" cases, without charge. In this way, the true emergencies among those check-outs may be recognized and treated quickly, where the caller might have otherwise not sought treatment.\n\nIn contrast with most other EMS agencies, many Hatzalah volunteers will remain at the hospital with the patient long after bringing them to the emergency department. This is especially true during serious cases in order to help the patient and/or their families navigate the sometimes confusing series of events that occur during an emergency. Members will stay to explain, advocate and sometimes help make arrangements to bring in other specialists or arrange transfer to higher care facilities.\n\nAt times there have been difficulties in dealing with outside organizations, including other first-responders.\n\nIn general, branches have excellent relations with state and local police and EMS.\n\nAn example of those operating in uneven or otherwise especially challenging situations is Catskills Hatzolah, handling the swelling summer crowd.\n\nIsrael's United Hatzalah has shared its expertise with a group of Arab volunteers from East Jerusalem to form an emergency first response unit called Nuran. The group since has been dismantled and the volunteers were incorporated in United Hatzalah.\n\nUnited Hatzalah's relationship with Magen David Adom, however, is strained, and MDA has banned its members and volunteers from also volunteering in other rescue organizations, including Hatzalah.\n\nThe Chevra NYC Central affiliates boast an excellent relationship with New York City and New York State agencies.\n\nOn February 20, 2013, the Federal Communications Commission granted Chevrah Hatzalah's request for a waiver to obtain calling party numbers (CPN) even when callers have caller ID blocking. Calls to 911 are exempt from CPN blocking but calls to Chevrah Hatzalah do not go through 911. Other Hatzalah dispatch numbers, including other New York State Hatzalah groups, do not have this waiver, but some are working on it.\n\nHatzalah members were among the first responders to the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Alongside other rescue workers, Hatzalah volunteers rescued, treated, and transported countless victims of the terrorist attack. In the process they earned great respect from their peers in the emergency service community.\n\nHatzalah was not dispatched by the city's 911 system, and a printout of the 911 job from FDNY EMS does not list them as responding units. However, audio recordings exist of Hatzalah's own dispatch, including members calling for help during the collapse of the first tower. There are also well-known photos of destroyed Hatzalah ambulances and the destroyed cars of Hatzalah members, in the aftermath of the attack.\nThe Hatzalah units were also referred to in a memoir of 9/11 by responding NYC fireman Dennis Smith in his book \"Report From Ground Zero\". On page 231 of the first edition he wrote: \"I met two guys from Engine 39. They brought me to EMS, the Hezbollah [sic] ambulance.\" This was corrected in later editions.\n\nChapters of the organization exist in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, England, Israel, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, Switzerland, and in the United States. The chapters in each neighborhood or city operate independently though in many cases affiliations and levels of cooperation do exist between neighboring chapters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36167653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36167653", "title": "Health in Germany", "text": "Health in Germany\n\nGermany ranked 20th in the world in life expectancy in 2014 with 76.5 years for men and 82.1 years for women. It had a very low infant mortality rate (4.3 per 1,000 live births), and it was eighth place in the number of practicing physicians, at per 1,000 people (3.3).\n\nA new measure of expected human capital calculated for 195 countries from 1990 to 2016 and defined for each birth cohort as the expected years lived from age 20 to 64 years and adjusted for educational attainment, learning or education quality, and functional health status was published by The Lancet in September 2018. Germany had the twenty-fourth highest level of expected human capital with 25 health, education, and learning-adjusted expected years lived between age 20 and 64 years. \n\nAt the end of 2004, some 44,900 Germans, or less than 0.1 percent of the population, were infected with human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS). In the first half of 2005, German health authorities registered 1,164 new infections; about 60 percent of the cases involved homosexual men. Since the beginning of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, about 24,000 Germans have died from the disease.\n\nAccording to a 2013 micro-census survey, 24.5% of the German population aged 15+ are smokers (29 percent in men, 20 percent in women). Among the 18- to 25-year-old age group, 35.2% are smokers.\n\nObesity in Germany has been increasingly cited as a major health issue. A 2007 study shows Germany has the highest number of overweight people in Europe. However, the United Kingdom, Greece and certain countries in Eastern Europe have a higher rate of \"truly obese\" people. Forbes.com ranks Germany as the 43rd fattest country in the World with a rate of 60.1%.\n\nIn 2015 it was estimated that 11.52% of the population has diabetes, costing about $4,943 per person per year.\n\nAt the end of the nineteenth century Berlin had the highest urban density of any city in Europe.Only 8% of dwellings in the city had a toilet. There were repeated outbreaks of cholera and typhus. Rudolf Virchow promoted sewage works, called Rieselfelder, after the cholera epidemic of 1868. In 1871 a smallpox epidemic killed 6478 people. Virchow estimated that 5% of the Berlin population were infected by venereal disease. \n\nTuberculosis was estimated to be the cause of about 15% of all deaths in Prussia in 1860.\n\nIn Germany, the Standing Committee on Vaccination is the federal commission responsible for recommending an immunization schedule. The Robert Koch Institute in Berlin (RKI) compiles data of immunization status upon the entry of children at school, and measures vaccine coverage of Germany at a national level. Founded in 1972, the STIKO is composed of 12–18 volunteers, appointed members by the Federal Ministry for Health for 3-year terms. The independent advisory group meets biannually to address issues pertaining to preventable infectious diseases. Although the STIKO makes recommendations, immunization in Germany is voluntary and there are no official government recommendations. German Federal States typically follow the Standing Vaccination Committee's recommendations minimally, although each state can make recommendations for their geographic jurisdiction that extends beyond the recommended list. In addition to the proposed immunization schedule for children and adults, the STIKO recommends vaccinations for occupational groups, police, travelers, and other at risk groups. Vaccinations recommendations that are issued must be in accordance with the Protection Against Infection Act (), which regulates the prevention of infectious diseases in humans. If a vaccination is recommended because of occupational risks, it must adhere to the Occupational Safety and Health Act involving Biological Agents. In the event of vaccination related injuries, federal states are responsible for monetary compensation. Germany's central government does not finance childhood immunizations, so 90% of vaccines are administered in a private physician's office and paid for through insurance. The other 10% of vaccines are provided by the states in public health clinics, schools, or day care centers by local immunization programs. Physician responsibilities concerning immunization include beginning infancy vaccination, administering booster vaccinations, maintaining medical and vaccination history, and giving information and recommendations concerning vaccines.\n\nHealthcare in Germany\n"}
{"id": "41384660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41384660", "title": "Health information on the Internet", "text": "Health information on the Internet\n\nHealth information on the Internet refers to all communication related to health done on the Internet.\n\nAs a general communication channel, various Internet products serve every type of general health information.\n\nIn the late 1990s researchers began to note that huge numbers of people were using the Internet to seek health information, despite various problems with the quality of information or inefficiencies in accessing it. Various problems have been identified for those using search engines to seek health information.\n\nThere is a premise that patients with access to their personal health information presented in a form they can understand will be able to interpret and learn from this information in a way that benefits them. Physicians worry that patients using their own medical history records as a starting point for personal research on the Internet are at risk for being overwhelmed and misinformed when seeking health information on the Internet.\n\nAs of 2013 opinions about the relationship health care providers should have with online health information were still being established. According to one 2014 study, \"The flow of information has fundamentally changed, and physicians have less control over health information relayed to patients. Not surprisingly, this paradigm shift has elicited varied and sometimes conflicting views about the value of the Internet as a tool to improve health care.\"\n\nSocial media channels have been noted as places which physicians can visit to get insight on patient thoughts. Patients have increasingly turned to social media for health information, sometimes of dubious quality. Several studies have used social media to gather data on patients' adverse drug reactions (ADRs), with generally promising results.\n\nVarious commercial organizations use health information gathered from the Internet. The use of health information gathered from social media has been described as raising serious ethical and privacy concerns, including the risk of accidental violations of patient privacy by health care providers on social media.\n\nPhysicians have difficulty explaining complicated medical concepts to their patients and patients have difficulty understanding complicated things which physicians tell them. One reasons for this is that a patient's visit to a physician is likely to be less than 15 minutes, and in any case, physicians are unable to spend the amount of time which patients that patients typically desire. Physicians use medical terms which patients do not understand, but which they would like to learn. There is consensus that patients should have shared decision making, which means that they make informed decisions about the direction of their health care in collaboration with their physician. Rich, educated, socially advantaged patients enjoy many more benefits of shared decision making than patients who have disadvantages in getting healthcare, including lower socioeconomic class or having a minority status.\n\nLack of patient understanding of health contributes to a range of problems including tendency to not adhere to the physician's medical advice and missing medical appointments. Patients without access to health information are also more likely to use complementary and alternative medicine which is not evidence-based medicine and to fail to inform their physician that they are doing so. While some benefits can be gained by training physicians to be more efficient in serving patients, there are also benefits in training patients to be more efficient in getting benefits from physicians and there are arguments that encouraging efficient patient behavior is a powerful strategy for improving health care processes.\n\nVarious social forums exist in which anyone can have conversations about health with their peers. Such forums are especially popular among patients who seek to have conversations with other patients with a shared medical concern. Those who participate in online communities which discuss health issues report feeling relief about their health worries, perceiving more control over their health and medical condition, having more medical knowledge, and having more personal agency overall.\n\nSome research has failed to find evidence to validate physicians' concerns that patients typically receive misinformation online or using health information to inappropriately conduct self diagnosis. Patients with chronic diseases who use the Internet to get health information often acquire good skills to judge the quality of information which they find.\n\nThe written record of medical consensus is stored in scientific journals. Since the advent of electronic publishing there has been academic journal publishing reform which had a range of effects, including more researchers and physicians having greater access to professional information in medical journals through the Internet.\n\nThrough various sources both publicly and privately available, datasets containing health information about large numbers of patients are available on the Internet to an extent which was impossible to manage before the Internet.\n\nMeasures and standards for ensuring quality control on the Internet have been criticized and no one standard is universally accepted. Regardless of what kind of measure is used, much health information on the Internet is of dubious quality. Among all sources there is a wide variance in quality of health information on the Internet.\nThe nature and quality of online health-related information seeking on the web is challenging and complex and many researchers investigated this issue benefiting from a wide range of theories from different disciplines.</ref> Among all sources there is a wide variance in quality of health information on the Internet.\n\nFor many applications people wish to use health information on the Internet to give insight about a personal health concern. Because of this, the goal is often to use the Internet to find information described in a person's medical record. Since the advent of electronic media, medical records have been increasingly kept as electronic medical records. If electronic medical records were shared online then it would be easy to match those with information and conduct a range of research. However, all medical records are protected health information because sharing personal health information exposes an individual to a range of harms which result from violation of their expectation of privacy.\n\nThere is currently broad international debate about how to balance patient and commercial medicine demands for personal health information with individual's needs for safety and respect.\n\nAn electronic medical record is a medical record stored as electronic media.\n\nDe-identification is an attempt to divide a collection of information about a particular person so that all information which identifies the person is removed, and with intent to distribute whatever information is left. The closer the data is to anonymization the less valuable the data is to those who want it, so in general, data is only de-identified somewhat and rarely anonymized. There are many controversies in de-identification.\n\nThere is a large demand for access to large collections of various types of personal health information. Almost all of this demand is commercial.\n\nVarious groups have expressed worry over danger to the public which results from the distribution of collections of personal health information.\n\nIn 2014 National Health Service in the United Kingdom proposed to sell datasets of personal health information.\n\nPubMed is a free search engine accessing primarily the MEDLINE database of references and abstracts on life sciences and biomedical topics. The United States National Library of Medicine at the National Institutes of Health maintains the database.\n\nIn 2014 Wikipedia was described as \"the leading single source of healthcare information for patients\nand healthcare professionals\".\n\nIn the United States the Food and Drug Administration offers guidance for health industry organizations which share information online.\n\n medicaltipsblog.com\n\n"}
{"id": "20392665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20392665", "title": "Healthy Life Years", "text": "Healthy Life Years\n\nThe Healthy Life Years indicator (HLY) is a European structural indicator computed by Eurostat. It is one of the summary measures of population health, known as health expectancies, composite measures of health that combine mortality and morbidity data to represent overall population health on a single indicator. HLY measures the number of remaining years that a person of a certain age is expected to live without disability. It is actually a disability-free life expectancy.\n\nThe European Union has decided to include a small set of health expectancies among its European Community Health Indicators (ECHI) to provide synthetic measures of disability, chronic morbidity, and perceived health. Therefore the Minimum European Health Module (MEHM), composed of 3 general questions covering these dimensions, has been introduced into the Eurostat EU-Statistics on Income and Living Conditions Survey (EU-SILC) to improve the comparability of health expectancies between countries. In addition life expectancy without long term activity limitation, based on the disability question, was selected in 2004 to be one of the structural indicators to be examined every year, during the European Spring Council for assessing the EU strategic goals (Lisbon Strategy) under the name of “Healthy Life Years” (HLY). Furthermore the European Union is co-funding a Joint Action on Chronic Diseases and Promoting Healthy Ageing across the Life Cycle (CHRODIS-JA). This aims to promote and facilitate a process of exchange and transfer of good practices between European countries and regions, addressing chronic conditions, with a specific focus on health promotion and prevention of chronic conditions, multi-morbidity and diabetes. \n\nDetailed information on the Health Expectancies in Europe are available from the EurOhex Advanced research on European health expectancies while latest Healthy Life Years values can be found on the general public website devoted to the Healthy Life Years.\n\nDramatic increases in life expectancy in the most developed countries - and therefore in the countries of the European Union - constitute one of the most remarkable advances of the last decades. But why prolong life if this is to be accompanied by increases in severe mental and physical impairment? Thus a further challenge confronts the European Community:\n\nIn this context, the classical mortality indicators are no longer sufficient to monitor the health status of European populations. The availability of health expectancy indicators dividing life expectancy into life spent in different states of health is useful to health authorities in the field of public health and health policies provided that these indicators allow comparisons over time and between geographic areas and between socio-economic groups in society. As the post-war generation reaches retirement, the pace of ageing will increase dramatically in our European societies, with profound social effects. HLY is an important indicator :\n\n\nDifferent estimations are made for men and women. In 2015, the number of healthy years of women in the EU-28 was estimated to be at 63.3 years and of men to be at 62.6 years. The interesting part of this is that the gender gap was considerably smaller in regards to healthy life years than to overall life expectancy. This would imply that biologically, gender would not really affect the rate and time at which humans would become healthy yet gender would play a role in how long human beings would be able to live in an unhealthy state. \n\nEurostat calculates information about the healthy life years at three different ages during a person's life. One is at birth, another is at age 50, and the third is at age 65, with an indicator used separately for men and women. The data is calculated and collected by using mortality statistics as well as self perceived longstanding activity limitations- a dimension that captures longstanding limitation in regards to health and/or disability to perform usual and frequent activities. \nAn example of a question that might be asked concerning the longstanding activity limitation is: \"For the last six months, to what extent have you been limited because of a health problem in activities that people usually do?\" Some available answers are \"severely limited\", \"limited but not severely\", or \"not limited at all\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17273944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17273944", "title": "Henry M. Eichner", "text": "Henry M. Eichner\n\nHenry M. Eichner (1909–1971) was an American medical artist, illustrator and writer. He did covers and illustrations for the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society's magazine \"Shangri L'Affaires\". His nonfiction book on Atlantis, \"Atlantean Chronicles\", was published by Fantasy Publishing Company, Inc. in 1971.\n\n"}
{"id": "3019698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3019698", "title": "Hispanic Health Council", "text": "Hispanic Health Council\n\nThe Hispanic Health Council (HHC), was established in 1978 in response to the health care crisis in the Puerto Rican community. HHC is a nationally recognized community-based research, service, training, and advocacy organization, is committed to developing and providing a comprehensive approach to improving the health and social well-being of Latinos and other low income inner city population.\n\nThe Hispanic Health Council, which is based in Hartford, CT, has a long year track record of successfully translating its research findings into prevention, intervention, and community education programs. Since the founding of the HHC in 1978, the organization has grown to be the largest Hispanic social service organization in the state of Connecticut, with special expertise in maternal and child health, family nutrition, risk reduction, youth development, substance abuse, and HIV/AIDS.\n\nThe central mission of the Hispanic Health Council is to use research to enhance the effectiveness of community intervention and education programs and to use long term involvement in the community to develop health research programs. The organization’s efforts to achieve these goals are characterized by: \n\n"}
{"id": "8588796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8588796", "title": "John Burden", "text": "John Burden\n\nJohn Allen Burden (1862–1942) was a Seventh-day Adventist minister, administrator, and medical missionary instrumental in founding sanitariums, restaurants, and health food factories. At the age of 9, John attended Adventist meetings for the first time and was introduced to the writings of Ellen G. White, which left a lifelong impression upon him. Five years later he was baptized, and at the age of 18 (1880) moved with his family to Oregon. John met Eleanor A. Baxter (1865–1933) as a student at Healdsburg College (now Pacific Union College). They were married in 1888 while working for the Rural Health Retreat (later St. Helena Sanitarium), of which John became manager in 1891.\n\nIn 1901 the Burdens went to Australia where they helped Merritt G. Kellogg who was founding the Wahroonga Sanitarium (now the Sydney Adventist Hospital) in Wahroonga, Sydney. By March 1904 the Burdens returned to the United States. Ellen G. White encouraged them not to unite with John Harvey Kellogg in Battle Creek, Michigan. Instead, John sought to establish a sanitarium near Los Angeles. Eight miles from the city he discovered the Glendale Hotel that had cost $60,000 to build in 1886. However, because of local business failures, property value had declined so that he was able to purchase it for $12,500. When it opened in 1905, Burden was the manager of the sanitarium, and Eleanor the bookkeeper. The sanitarium prospered under Burden's careful management.\n\nIn 1904 Ellen G. White urged for the establishment of another sanitarium in southern California. A resort hotel at Loma Linda was found that was available for $110,000, a price too high. On May 4, 1905 she met with the Burdens and others at the railroad station in Los Angeles on her way to the General Conference Session in Washington, D.C. Burden told her of the property, and she expressed definite interest in it, asking him to write her about it after his next visit to the property. When Burden's letter arrived in Washington, she urged him by telegram to\n\nsecure the property by all means. . . . This is the very property we ought to have. Do not delay; for it is just what is needed.\n\nBorrowing the down payment, Burden succeeded in purchasing the property for $40,000 and was put in charge of the new sanitarium. The final price, with discounts for early payment, came to $38,900. After Ellen White found out that the property was secured she wrote in her diary:\n\nI am surprised more and more that the Lord has in His abundant mercy wrought in our behalf.\n\nFounded as the College of Medical Evangelists, the institution exists today as Loma Linda University. A building on campus, Burden Hall, remains named for John Burden. At one time, it was home to the Loma Linda University Church of Seventh-day Adventists until the congregation outgrew it. Burden Hall now houses the Office of University Relations, is used for classes during the week, and is home to a Sabbath School class each Saturday.\n\nBurden continued to manage the facilities at Loma Linda until 1915 when he became manager, and Eleanor the matron, of Paradise Valley Sanitarium (1916–1924; 1925–1934). After Eleanor's death in 1933, John retired, but in 1939 he returned to Loma Linda to serve as chaplain, counseling young medical missionaries and the staff of the College of Medical Evangelists. Burden died as the result of a car accident on his return from a Bible study in Redlands, California. Burden's personal collection of some 650 pages of Ellen White's letters (half of them addressed to him) was published as \"Loma Linda Messages\" (Loma Linda, CA: College of Medical Evangelists, 1934).\n\n"}
{"id": "51334592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51334592", "title": "Kaare R. Norum", "text": "Kaare R. Norum\n\nKaare Reidar Norum (born 24 December 1932) is a Norwegian professor of nutrition.\n\nHe was born in Oslo. He was hired as a docent at the University of Oslo in 1969 and advanced to professor in 1972. He served as vice dean of the Faculty of Medicine from 1983 to 1985, dean from 1986 to 1988 and rector from 1999 to 2001.\n\nHe is a fellow of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters since 1986; Commander of the Order of St. Olav in 1999 (Knight since 1992) and Commander of the Order of the Polar Star.\n\nNorum became a member of in 1971 and has chaired the council several times. He appeared numerous times in the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation, speaking on topics within nutrition, notably together with Ingrid Espelid Hovig.\n"}
{"id": "32549542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32549542", "title": "Leila Esfandyari", "text": "Leila Esfandyari\n\nLeila Esfandyari (; Feb 17, 1970 in Karaj, Iran – July 22, 2011, Gasherbrum II, Pakistan) was an Iranian mountain climber. Esfandyari was the first Iranian woman to scale the summit of Nanga Parbat in the Himalayas, the world’s ninth highest peak with an altitude of 8,125 metres and one of the deadliest peaks. Esfandyari is regarded as a pioneer in the women’s mountain climbing movement, being one of few women in the world to have completed a similar attempt.\n\nEsfandyari was brought up and educated in Tehran, Iran, receiving a bachelor's degree in microbiology. She worked as a microbiologist in a Tehran hospital before she left her job to climb K2 in the Himalayas in 2010.\n\nOn July 22, 2011, she successfully completed the ascent to Gasherbrum II, one of the highest peaks on the Karakoram range of the Himalayas. Minutes after, on the way down, her foot slipped on the ice and she fell 300 meters down the mountain. She had said once before that: \"If I fall, let me remain where I am.\" In accordance to her wishes, her body now rests in the icy heights of the Himalayan Mountain range.\n"}
{"id": "32939809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32939809", "title": "List of large temple tanks", "text": "List of large temple tanks\n\nThis is a list of Temple tanks in terms of area.\n\n"}
{"id": "38596781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38596781", "title": "List of methanol poisoning incidents", "text": "List of methanol poisoning incidents\n\nOutbreaks of methanol poisoning have occurred when methanol is used to adulterate moonshine (bootleg liquor).\n\nMethanol has a high toxicity in humans. If as little as 10 ml of pure methanol is ingested, for example, it can break down into formic acid, which can cause permanent blindness by destruction of the optic nerve, and 30 ml is potentially fatal, although the median lethal dose is typically 100 ml (3.4 fl oz) (i.e. 1–2 ml/kg body weight of pure methanol). This does not happen with ethanol, which breaks down into acetic acid, which is non-toxic on small amounts. Reference dose for methanol is 0.5 mg/kg/day. Toxic effects take hours to start, and effective antidotes can often prevent permanent damage. Because of its similarities in both appearance and odor to ethanol (the alcohol in beverages), it is difficult to differentiate between the two.\n\nIn 1999, 35 people died, in ten cities of the state of Bahia as a result of drinking cachaça contaminated with methanol. Further investigation revealed concentrations as high as 24.84% methanol. As other different cases have also been related, in a 20 day window there have been 450 people hospitalized with the toxicity symptoms of methanol ingestion.\n\nIn 2012, 49 people died, and more than 300 people were hospitalized, after drinking rice wine contaminated by methanol.\n\nThe 2012 Czech Republic methanol poisonings occurred in September 2012 in the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia. Over the course of several days, 38 people in the Czech Republic and 4 people in Poland died as a result of methanol poisoning and several tens of others were taken to hospital.\n\nIn El Salvador, as many as 122 people died in 2000 as a result of drinking low quality liquors sold in unauthorized shops that were found to be adulterated with methanol. The incident prompted the authorities to declare a 10-day emergency prohibition and a massive inspection of alcohol-vending establishments. The root cause was believed to be an act of terrorism, possibly a social cleansing campaign targeted against alcoholics, as the offending distilleries were not found to be responsible for the methanol contents that were present in the affected liquors.\n\nThe Pärnu methanol tragedy occurred in Pärnu county, Estonia, in September 2001, when 68 people died and 43 were left disabled after contents of stolen methanol canisters were used in production of bootleg liquor.\n\nIndia has a thriving moonshine industry, and methanol-tainted batches have killed over 1,000 people in the last 3 decades.\n\nIn 2013, as a result of methanol mass poisoning in Iran 694 people were hospitalised in the city of Rafsanjan. 8 people were reported dead due to severe intoxication.\n\nIn 1986 the was a fraud perpetrated by adulterating table wine with methanol, poisoning hundred of people, with 90 hospitalized, 23 deaths, and many others heavily injured (blindness and neurological damages).\n\nAt least 51 people died in Tripoli in 2013. The consumption and sale of alcohol is illegal in Libya.\n\nThe Madagascar methanol mass poisoning occurred in 1998 when 200 people died.\n\nIn September 2018, 37 people died of methanol poisoning from drinking fake liquor. In this incident, the methanol content was up to 50 times more than the permissible amount. Cases of toxic alcohol poisoning have been reported in Selangor, the Federal Territories, Perak and Negeri Sembilan. The deaths comprised two Bangladeshi, two Indian nationals, 11 Myanmar nationals, eight Nepalese, 10 Malaysians and four others of unknown nationality. Three Indian nationals, believed to be responsible for the distribution of cheap counterfeit liquor to retailers around Selayang and Desa Jaya which led to the methanol poisoning incident have now been arrested.\n\nBetween April 14 and April 26, 2015, 23 deaths were recorded in relation to methanol poisoning in Ayadi and Ode-Irele towns of Irele Local Government Area in Ondo State.\n\nBetween September 2002 and December 2004, 51 people were admitted to hospital with symptoms of methanol poisoning, of whom 9 died. A further 8 people who died outside hospital were found to have died from methanol poisoning following autopsy. The liquor responsible for all of the cases contained 20% methanol and 80% ethanol and probably came from the same source in southern Europe.\n\nIn December 2016, 72 people died in a mass methanol poisoning in Irkutsk, Siberia. The poisoning was precipitated by drinking counterfeit surrogate alcohol—actually scented bath lotion that was marked as not safe for consumption. Named \"Boyaryshnik\" (\"Hawthorn\"), it was described by the Associated Press as being counterfeit.\n\nIn 1963, methanol was used in the preparation of bottled mixed alcohol drinks such as coffee liqueur. \nAccording official records, 51 died and 9 lost their sight, but according to newspapers there may have been thousands of victims, mainly in Galicia and the Canary Islands.\n\n\nIn December 1963, a rash of 31 deaths in Philadelphia's homeless population was traced to a local store that knowingly sold Sterno to people for them to consume and get drunk.\n\n"}
{"id": "18217844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18217844", "title": "List of political parties in Micronesia by country", "text": "List of political parties in Micronesia by country\n"}
{"id": "5763430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5763430", "title": "Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound", "text": "Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound\n\nLow-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) is a medical technology, generally using 1.5 MHz frequency pulses, with a pulse width of 200 μs, repeated at 1 kHz, at a spatial average and temporal average intensity of 30 mW/cm. As of 2009 research for the use of LIPUS to treat soft tissue injuries were in the early stages. As of 2012 it was being studied for dental problems.\n\nStarting around the 1950s this technology was being used as a form of physical therapy for ailments such as tendinitis.\n\nLow intensity pulsed ultrasound has been proposed as a therapy to support bone healing after fractures, osteotomies, or delayed healing. A 2017 review, however, found no trustworthy evidence for the use of low intensity pulsed ultrasound for bone healing. An associated guideline issued a strong recommendation against its use in bone healing. Evidence as of 2014 was insufficient to justify its use to prevent non healing of bone fractures. Tentative evidence supports better healing with the use of the system in long bones that have not healed after three months. Some reviews suggested inconclusive evidence of benefit. One industry supported meta-analysis suggested it as a potential alternative to surgery for established nonunions. Most studies suggesting benefit were funded by manufacturers of ultrasound devices.\n\nIn 2018, a study published in the journal \"Brain Stimulation\", reported that experiments on mice showed that whole-brain LIPUS therapy markedly improved cognitive dysfunctions without serious side effects by enhancing specific cells related to dementia's pathology. Clinical trials are underway.\n"}
{"id": "11790050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11790050", "title": "Manliness (book)", "text": "Manliness (book)\n\nManliness is a book by Harvey C. Mansfield first published by Yale University Press in 2006. Mansfield is a professor of government at Harvard University. In this book, he defines manliness as \"confidence in a situation of risk\" and suggests this quality is currently undervalued in Western society.\n\nHe suggests the quality is more common in men than in women, but doesn't strictly exclude women, for example he names Margaret Thatcher. He also suggests the quality is \"good and bad\", not all good, but not all bad. His main point is that gender neutral ideology denies both the reality of sex-specific qualities, and the valuable components of these, to the detriment of society.\n\nMansfield attributes the rise of gender neutral ideology firstly to Friedrich Nietzsche, Karl Marx and Jean-Paul Sartre, and then to feminists who repackaged the ideas as part of a political program. He names Simone de Beauvoir, Betty Friedan and Germaine Greer.\n\nMansfield evaluates the concept of manliness as it has been expressed over the course of Western civilization, and considers its virtues. As Mansfield stated to NPR's Tom Ashbrook, \"Some people say manliness doesn't exist. Others say it does exist and it's bad. I say it exists and it's good ... and bad.\"\n\nDrawing on classical philosophy, literature, and science, Mansfield argues that manliness is a virtue primarily associated with the male sex which is preferable to widespread institutional gender-neutral ideology.\n\nBeginning with modern scientific discoveries, Mansfield appropriates them for insights on how these innate biological realities might exert an influence on gender identity and gender role preferences. Mansfield then proceeds to literature, drawing on Homer, Rudyard Kipling, and Hemingway to support his thesis that manliness has been a perpetual component of the male psyche and behavior.\n\nMansfield then offers an analysis of the historical forces in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, singling out Simone de Beauvoir, Betty Friedan, and Germaine Greer as the key writers to have influenced, what he considers to be, the dismantling of manliness. These writers shared two common hypotheses they derived from earlier writers: from Marx they drew the theory of economic exploitation, and from Nietzsche their flirtations with nihilism. Finally, Mansfield turns to Aristotle as the archetypal expounder of manliness to identify the quality of \"philosophical courage,\" which Mansfield concludes is the ideal understanding of manliness.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38899587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38899587", "title": "Medical tourism in Malaysia", "text": "Medical tourism in Malaysia\n\nAccording to the Malaysia Healthcare Travel Council (MHTC), Malaysia reportedly received 641,000 foreign patients in 2011, 728,800 in 2012, 881,000 in 2013, 882,000 in 2014, 859,000 in 2015, and 921,000 in 2016. Malaysia's medical tourism statistics derive from the reported numbers of all foreign patients treated by Malaysia Healthcare Travel Council (MHTC)–endorsed medical facilities. These figures encompass all registered patients with a foreign passport, which by default also encompass expatriates, migrants, business travellers, and holiday-makers for whom health care may not be the main motive for their stay. The number of Malaysia Healthcare Travel Council (MHTC)]–endorsed medical facilities in Malaysia has increased over the years (e.g., 35 in 2009, 49 in 2011, 63 in 2012, 72 in 2013 and 78 in 2014), playing a role in increasing the official figures on foreign patients.\n\nThe majority of the foreign patients seeking medical treatments in Malaysia are from Indonesia, with smaller numbers of foreign patients coming from India, Singapore, Japan, Australia, Europe, the USA and the Middle East. In 2008, Indonesians comprised 75% of all foreign patients receiving care in Malaysia; Europeans, 3%; Japanese, 3%; Singaporeans, 1% and citizens from Middle Eastern countries, 1%. By 2011, Indonesians comprised 57% of all foreign patients in Malaysia as the number of patients of other nationalities grew.\n\nHealth insurance companies in Singapore have recently permitted their policyholders to be treated in Malaysia where services are cheaper than in Singapore.\n\nAs with Thailand, medical tourism started to receive attention from the Malaysian government in the wake of the Asian Financial crisis as a tool for economic diversification in the healthcare and tourism industries. The National Committee for the Promotion of Medical and Health Tourism (NCPMHT) was\nformed by the Ministry of Health in January 1998. Following on this, private hospitals (and some corporatised government-owned hospitals, like the Institut Jantung Negara) – concentrated mainly in the states of Penang, Malacca, Selangor, Sarawak, and Johor – worked alongside and through their respective state governments; private hospital associations; and the Malaysian Ministries of Health, Tourism, and Trade and Industry to promote medical tourism. In 2009, the Ministry of Health set up the Malaysia Healthcare Travel Council (MHTC) to replace the NCPMHT and to serve as the primary agency to promote and develop the country's medical tourism industry as well as position Malaysia as a healthcare hub in the Southeast Asian/ASEAN region.\n\nThe Malaysian government's investment tax allowance has encouraged private health care facilities promoting medical tourism to invest in internationally recognized accreditation schemes (e.g. Joint Commission International and Malaysian Society for Quality in Healthcare) and medical equipment in order to develop ‘world-class’, technology-intensive private health care facilities and ensure care standards considered necessary to attract medical tourists.\n\nAs a nation, Malaysia and its non-governmental organizations, medical centres and facilitators have won numerous awards. \n\n\n\nRevenue from medical tourism to Malaysia grew from MYR 299 million in 2008 to MYR 511 in 2011 to MYR 683 million in 2013. Penang's hospitals were responsible for contributing 57% in 2009 and 66% in 2010 of all revenue to the country's medical tourism industry. With the 2010 launch of the Economic Transformation Programme (ETP), which seeks to transform Malaysia into an upper middle-income country with a knowledge-based economy, interest in medical tourism's economic potential grew. The ETP designated health care as one of the country's 12 National Key Economic Areas (NKEAs) deemed to have the potential to spur growth. As part of the health care NKEA, medical tourism is intended to generate MYR 9.6 billion in revenue and MYR 4.3 billion in gross national income and to require 5,300 more medical professionals by 2020. For-profit hospitals are expected to invest MYR 335 million in hospital infrastructure in order to be prepared for 1.9 million foreign patients annually by 2020.\n\nMedical tourism in Malaysia was ranked by Nuwire as one of the top five destinations for health tourism in the world in 2008. Malaysia was also recognised as 2015 'Destination of the Year' by the International Medical Travel Journal (IMTJ).\n\n"}
{"id": "43574061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43574061", "title": "Meliandou", "text": "Meliandou\n\nMeliandou is a village in Guéckédou Prefecture, in the Nzérékoré Region of southern Guinea. Medical researchers believe that the village was the location of the first known case of Ebola virus disease in the epidemic in West Africa. The patient zero of Ebola was a two-year-old boy who died in 2013. The boy's pregnant mother, sister, and grandmother also became ill with symptoms consistent with Ebola infection and died. People infected by those victims later spread the disease to other villages.\n\nPrior to the Ebola outbreak, the villagers sold their farm produce to the nearby town of Guéckédou. , they found themselves unable to sell their products anymore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32595633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32595633", "title": "Money disorder", "text": "Money disorder\n\nMoney disorders are the maladaptive patterns of financial beliefs and behaviors that lead to clinically significant distress, impairment in social or occupational functioning, due to financial strain or an inability to appropriately enjoy one’s financial resources. With the exception of pathological gambling and compulsive buying, psychology and the mental health fields have largely neglected dysfunctional money disorders. The term is contentious among mental health professionals and as of 2017, money disorder is not a clinical diagnosis in either the DSM or ICD medical classifications of diseases and medical disorders.\n\nTypes of behaviors, or “scripts”, related to money disorders include money avoidance, money worship, money status and money vigilance. Some mental health practitioners say that those afflicted with money disorders or who have problematic money beliefs can seek financial therapy. With financial therapy, financial planners and relationship therapists work together to provide comprehensive treatment to clients experiencing financial distress.\n"}
{"id": "44854261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44854261", "title": "NSW Physical Disability Rugby League", "text": "NSW Physical Disability Rugby League\n\nThe New South Wales Physical Disability Rugby League Association (NSWPDRLA) is an amateur open age rugby league competition for people with a Physical disability.\n\nThe NSWPDRL was formed in 2010 by George Tonna, a former Australian paralympian football player. They then affiliated with the New South Wales Rugby League and established two teams the Eastern Sydney Stingrays and Western Sydney Outlaws and were playing exhibition matches from 2010-12. Two new clubs entered in 2013 the Manly Sea Eagles and Newtown Jets for players based in the North Shore and Sydney City areas.\n\nThe Manly Sea Eagles are the current champions as they defeated South Sydney 12-4 in the 2015 grand final.\n\nThe rules are the same as top level rugby league but have been modified to make the game safer for disabled bodied and younger players;\n\nThere are currently 4 teams in the competition but there are plans to expand the competition further across NSW, Australia and overseas.\n"}
{"id": "21012591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21012591", "title": "Narva Reservoir", "text": "Narva Reservoir\n\nNarva Reservoir (, ) is a reservoir by Narva River, shared by Russia and Estonia.\n\nThe reservoir was constructed during 1955-1956, during the Soviet era. It provides water to Narva Hydroelectric Station (installed capacity 125 MW, located on the Russian side and owned by the power company TGC-1) and cooling water to the Estonian Narva Power Plants. Its surface area at normal headwater level of is , of which belongs to Estonia. Its drainage basin is .\n\nThe overall water exchange rate is high (about 30 times year), with some almost stagnant areas. The ecological status is estimated as \"good\" (as of 2007).\n"}
{"id": "44123864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44123864", "title": "National Pizza Month", "text": "National Pizza Month\n\nNational pizza month is an American observance that occurs for the month of October every year.\n\nThis observance began in October 1984, and was created by Gerry Durnell, the publisher of \"Pizza Today\" magazine. Some people observe National pizza month by consuming various types of pizzas or pizza slices, or going to various pizzerias. During the month, some pizzerias give away free pizzas or pizza slices to customers or offer reduced-price promotions. Some businesses run fundraising drives, donating proceeds of pizza sales to benefit various organizations or charities. Some pizzerias create unique pizzas that they don't routinely offer. For example, Mamma Mia! Pizza Kitchen in Levelland, Texas created a pizza prepared with rattlesnake meat in 2009 to celebrate the month.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32856741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32856741", "title": "NewsRx", "text": "NewsRx\n\nNewsRx is a media and technology company focusing on digital media, printed media, news services, and knowledge discovery through its BUTTER platform. In 1995 the company was the world’s largest producer of health news. The company publishes 194 newsweeklies in health and other fields, which are distributed to subscribers and partners including Factiva, the \"Wall Street Journal Professional Edition\", Thomson Reuters, ProQuest, and Cengage Learning. C W Henderson founded the company in 1984 and its first publication was \"AIDS Weekly.\" In the early 2000s, the firm added the imprint, VerticalNews to publish newsweeklies in non-health fields. Now based in Atlanta, Georgia, the company reports through its daily news service and publishes reference books through its partner, ScholarlyEditions. NewsRx launched its BUTTER platform in 2015, which is a knowledge discovery engine that delivers its content to academics, researchers, and professionals.\n\nThe idea for the first newsletter originated at an international conference on AIDS sponsored by the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC). A staff member commented to CW Henderson on the need for a publication to condense the rapid rise in information about the disease. In 1984, Henderson created CW Henderson Publisher, which became NewsRx in 2004.\n\nThat same year, the company distributed its first journal, \"CDC AIDS Weekly\", (which split into \"AIDS Weekly\" and \"Medical Letter on the CDC & FDA\") to an international audience. The first subscriber was the Soviet Union. Other subscribers include physicians, educators, government agencies, and pharmaceutical companies.\n\nThe articles in \"AIDS Weekly\" discussed social issues of the disease to medical research. The newsweekly included “shorts” to explain as much as was known about unfolding information and events.\n\nBefore the World Wide Web, NewsRx coordinated with the National AIDS Information Clearinghouse to provide information on the disease. The \"CDC AIDS Weekly Infoline\" provided a list of upcoming AIDS seminars as well as names and addresses of over 65 AIDS periodicals published worldwide.\n\nThe information published in \"AIDS Weekly\" came primarily from the government organization Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Though the newsweekly had no direct ties to the CDC other than as a source for information, a CDC official described the publication as “highly informative.” Other sources of information for this and other titles were the nearby Emory University medical library and international agencies. Articles included summaries of peer-reviewed research, conference reports, news releases, and compilations from other health and medical organizations.\n\nHowever, in the beginning, some critics were offended by the fact that NewsRx was a non-governmental agency distributing statistics that were available for free in official versions frrm the government. (see Controversy)\n\nIn 1988, the firm added \"Cancer Weekly\" and it added \"Blood Weekly\" in 1993. The company added \"Vaccine Weekly\" in 1995, followed by over 100 more medical-related titles.\n\nIn 1999, the firm also adopted \"Artificial Intelligence Journalist\" (AIJ) which uses robotics, machine learning, algorithms, logic, and automated reasoning to provide computer-assisted reporting and data driven journalism. This software program shortens the time from news event to news distribution.\n\nIn 2007, the firm introduced VerticalNews, a group of newsweeklies that included 86 new non-medical related titles, thus expanding the company’s reader-base. The initiative also emphasized the distribution of information on a global scale (more than 50 countries). Electronic versions of the publications are available. In addition to the 103 newsweeklies in medical, legal, and business fields within the healthcare industry, the firm publishes 88 newsweeklies within the VerticalNews imprint.\n\nThe firm also adopted site licenses, including the ability for users to download reports showing the types of information used in a given organization—information previously restricted to the NewsRx staff. The system recognizes IP addresses to facilitate research activities.\n\nOn April 22, 2015, NewsRx announced hiring new VP and Publisher Kalani Rosell. The business development office opened in 2016 in New Haven, Connecticut, headed by Rosell.\n\nIn 2015, NewsRx started BUTTER, which stands for Better Understanding Through Technology & Emerging Research, a business intelligence and data analytics platform with emerging research and new discoveries. It has content for researchers, academics, and investors, using a New Discovery Index (NDI) that analyzes discoveries worldwide by quarter and new discoveries within specific topic areas.\n\nBUTTER uses a search engine and publishes 10,000 new articles a day (11.4 million articles as of March, 2016).\n\nBUTTER’s platform creates content 30 minutes after stock markets close, monitoring all market movements, new SEC and patent filings, trademarks, and financial and investment decisions.\n\nThroughout most of its operating history, the NewsRx staff included board-certified medical editors with bachelor's degrees in journalism or related fields and experience in writing and editing. NewsRx editors condense news so that each article is less than 1000 words, while including key sentences of the original report and full bibliographic references and citations to original source material.\n\nNewsRx is staffed by journalists rather than medical professionals. At the company’s beginnings, \"Newsweek\" magazine commented that \"AIDS Weekly\", as a non-government entity, should not be reporting on topics that included policy, research, and statistics that some considered exclusive to the government. The head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) AIDS task force at the time was misquoted as stating that he disagreed with having the CDC name associated with the newsweekly. On the contrary, every issue of the \"CDC AIDS Weekly\" included an advisory caption, “…not sponsored by, endorsed by, affiliated with, or officially connected with the CDC.” Other staffers within the CDC supported NewsRx’s view to bring AIDS awareness to the public eye. The \"Boston Globe\" reported that \"AIDS Weekly\" was a necessary “watchdog” publication providing needed information to the public. Other articles appeared supporting NewsRx in the \"Wall Street Journal\", \"The New York Times\", and \"USA Today\", for what they said to be its impact in AIDS awareness and investigative journalism.\n\nCW Henderson’s role as executive editor at the firm was discussed in an article in \"Editor and Publisher\", focusing on the influence of pharmaceutical companies on news publications. Henderson opposed pharmaceutical company influence on reporters as well as premature reporting of experiments.\nThe firm was also involved with \"The New York Times\" in controversial breaking news about AIDS studies that had purposely been tampered with at the CDC. On at least 5 occasions, research on the causes of AIDS and other viral diseases might have been tampered with. \"CDC AIDS Weekly\" published an internal CDC memorandum on the incident.\n\nIn 2010, the firm's VerticalNews China was the subject of a denial of service attack that originated from China as a result of controversial news reported. The attack was halted when the company’s IP service identified the source and blocked it.\n\nIn 2011, the firm partnered with ScholarlyMedia’s ScholarlyEditions imprint, publishing 4,000 reference books, which replaced the EncyK line. The president of NewsRx is also president of ScholarlyMedia. The company’s book imprint is ScholarlyEditions, and its peer reviewed news service is ScholarlyNews.\n\nThe company's partners include:\n\nThe company's rankings include:\n"}
{"id": "1999202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1999202", "title": "Paul Farmer", "text": "Paul Farmer\n\nPaul Edward Farmer (born October 26, 1959) is an American medical anthropologist and physician. Dr. Farmer holds an MD and PhD from Harvard University, where he is the Kolokotrones University Professor and the chair of the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine at Harvard Medical School. He is co-founder and chief strategist of Partners in Health (PIH), an international non-profit organization that since 1987 has provided direct health care services and undertaken research and advocacy activities on behalf of those who are sick and living in poverty. He is professor of medicine and chief of the Division of Global Health Equity at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. Additionally, Dr. Farmer serves as the United Nations Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Community Based Medicine and Lessons from Haiti.\n\nDr. Farmer is the recipient of numerous honors, including the Bronislaw Malinowski Award and the Margaret Mead Award from the Society for Applied Anthropology, the Outstanding International Physician (Nathan Davis) Award from the American Medical Association, a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, and, with his Partners In Health colleagues, the Hilton Humanitarian Prize. He is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences, from which he was awarded the 2018 Public Welfare Medal.\n\nDr. Farmer and his colleagues in the U.S. and abroad have pioneered novel, community-based treatment strategies that demonstrate the delivery of high-quality health care in resource-poor settings in the U.S. and other countries. Their work is documented in the \"Bulletin of the World Health Organization, The Lancet, The New England Journal of Medicine, Clinical Infectious Diseases, British Medical Journal,\" and \"Social Science and Medicine.\"\n\nDr. Farmer has written extensively on health and human rights, the role of social inequalities in the distribution and outcome of infectious diseases, and global health.\n\nHe is known as \"the man who would cure the world,\" as described in the book \"Mountains Beyond Mountains\" by Tracy Kidder. The story of Partners In Health is also told in the 2017 documentary \"Bending the Arc\".\n\nFarmer was born in North Adams, Massachusetts and raised in Weeki Wachee, Florida. His brother is former professional wrestler Jeff Farmer. He is a graduate of Hernando High School in Brooksville, Florida, where he was elected president of his senior class. He attended Duke University as a Benjamin N. Duke Scholar, graduating summa cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts in medical anthropology. He attended Harvard University, earning an MD and a PhD in medical anthropology.\n\nIn 1987, Farmer, along with Jim Yong Kim, Ophelia Dahl, Thomas J. White and Todd McCormack, co-founded Partners In Health. PIH began in Cange in the Central Plateau of Haiti and currently works in 12 sites across the country. Hôpital Universitaire de Mirebalais provides tertiary care to patients. Partners In Health also works in Rwanda, Lesotho, Malawi, Mexico, Peru, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Russia, and Navajo Nation. The University of Global Health Equity is an initiative of Partners In Health focused on delivering the highest quality of health care by addressing the critical social and systemic forces causing inequities and inefficiencies in health care delivery.\n\nIn 2003, the author Tracy Kidder wrote \"Mountains Beyond Mountains: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer, a Man Who Would Cure the World\", which describes Farmer's work in Haiti, Peru, and Russia.\n\nIn May 2009, Farmer was named Chair of Harvard Medical School's Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, succeeding Jim Yong Kim, his longtime friend and colleague. In 2012, Kim was appointed President of the World Bank. On December 17, 2010, Harvard University's President, Drew Gilpin Faust, and the President and Fellows of Harvard College, named Farmer as a University Professor, the highest honor that the University can bestow on one of its faculty members.\n\nIn August 2009, Farmer was named United Nations Deputy Special Envoy to Haiti (serving under former U.S. President Bill Clinton), in his capacity as Special Envoy.\n\nIn December 2012, Farmer was appointed as the United Nations Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Community Based Medicine and Lessons from Haiti.\n\nDr. Farmer is board certified in internal medicine and infectious disease.\n\nDr. Farmer is Editor-in-Chief of \"Health and Human Rights Journal.\" Farmer is on the board of the Aristide Foundation for Democracy; he is a co-founder and Board Member of the Institute for Justice & Democracy in Haiti. He is on the Board of PIVOT, a recently formed healthcare and research organization operating in Madagascar. He is a member of the Advisory Board of Incentives for Global Health, the NGO focused on developing the Health Impact Fund. He also serves on the Global Advisory Council of GlobeMed, a student-driven global health organization that works through a partnership model. Farmer also serves on the Advisory Board of Universities Allied for Essential Medicines, an international student-driven advocacy organization that works on issues of medicine development and affordability. Farmer is a board member of Kageno Worldwide, Inc., a community development agency that has worked in Kenya and Rwanda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "340429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340429", "title": "Rheum", "text": "Rheum\n\nRheum (; from Greek: ῥεῦμα \"rheuma\" \"a flowing, rheum\"), also known as gound, is thin mucus naturally discharged from the eyes, nose, or mouth during sleep (cf. mucopurulent discharge). Rheum dries and gathers as a crust in the corners of the eyes or the mouth, on the eyelids, or under the nose. It is formed by a combination of mucus (in the case of the eyes, consisting of mucin discharged from the cornea or the conjunctiva), nasal mucus, blood cells, skin cells, or dust. Rheum from the eyes is particularly common. Dried rheum is commonly called sleep, sleepy-seeds, sleepy buds, sleepy sand, sleepers, eye goop, cheese, eye boogers, eye wappies, or sleepy dust.\n\nWhen the individual is awake, blinking of the eyelid causes rheum to be washed away with tears via the nasolacrimal duct. The absence of this action during sleep, however, results in a small amount of dry rheum accumulating in corners of the eye, most notably in children.\n\nA number of conditions can increase the production of rheum in the eye. In the case of allergic conjunctivitis, the buildup of rheum can be considerable, many times preventing the sufferer from opening the eye upon waking without prior cleansing of the eye area. The presence of pus in an instance of heavy rheum buildup can indicate dry eye or conjunctivitis, among other infections.\n\nIn infants, the tear ducts (that drain the tears) occasionally fail to open, resulting in the overflow of tears onto the cheeks (epiphora) and rheum deposition on the surrounding skin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3010875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3010875", "title": "Richard Levins", "text": "Richard Levins\n\nRichard \"Dick\" Levins (June 1, 1930 – January 19, 2016) was an ex-tropical farmer turned ecologist, a population geneticist, biomathematician, mathematical ecologist, and philosopher of science who had researched diversity in human populations. Until his death, Levins was a university professor at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and a long-time political activist. He was best known for his work on evolution and complexity in changing environments and on metapopulations.\nLevins' writing and speaking is extremely condensed. This, combined with his Marxism, has made his analyses less well-known than those of some other ecologists and evolutionists who were adept at popularization. One story of his Chicago years is that, in order to understand his lectures, his graduate students each needed to attend Levins' courses three times: the first time to acclimate themselves to the speed of his delivery and the difficulty of his mathematics; the second to get the basic ideas down; and the third to pick up his subtleties and profundities.\n\nLevins also had written on philosophical issues in biology and modelling. One of his influential articles is \"The Strategy of Model Building in Population Biology\". He has influenced a number of contemporary philosophers of biology. Levins often boasted publicly that he was a 'fourth generation Marxist' and often had said that the methodology in his \"Evolution in Changing Environments\" was based upon the introduction to Marx's \"Grundrisse\", the rough draft of \"Das Kapital\". With the evolutionary geneticist Richard Lewontin, Levins had written a number of articles on methodology, philosophy, and social implications of biology. Many of these are collected in \"The Dialectical Biologist\". In 2007, the duo published a second thematic collection of essays titled \"Biology Under the Influence: Dialectical Essays on Ecology, Agriculture, and Health\".\n\nAlso with Lewontin, Levins had co-authored a number of satirical articles criticizing sociobiology, systems modeling in ecology, and other topics under the pseudonym Isadore Nabi. Levins and Lewontin managed to place a ridiculous biography of Nabi and his achievements in \"American Men of Science\", thereby showing how little editorial care and fact-checking work went on in that respected reference work.\n\nRichard Levins was of Ukrainian Jewish heritage and was born on June 1, 1930, in Brooklyn, New York. He recorded reminiscences of his politically and scientifically precocious childhood in an article in . He reportedly had read Paul de Kruif's Microbe Hunters (1926) at age 8 (in 1938) and his first of Charles Darwin's books at age 12 (in 1942). At the age of 10, Levins had been inspired by the essays of the Marxist biological polymath J. B. S. Haldane, whom Levins considers to be the equal of Albert Einstein in scientific importance.\n\nLevins studied agriculture and mathematics at Cornell. He married Puerto Rican writer Rosario Morales in 1950. Blacklisted on his graduation from Cornell, he and Rosario moved to Puerto Rico, where they farmed and did rural organizing. They returned to New York in 1956, where he earned his PhD at Columbia University (awarded 1965). Levins taught at the University of Puerto Rico from 1961 to 1967 and was a prominent member of the Puerto Rican independence movement. He visited Cuba for the first time in 1964, beginning a lifelong scientific and political collaboration with Cuban biologists. His active participation in the independence and anti-war movements in Puerto Rico led to his being denied tenure at the University of Puerto Rico, and in 1967 he and Rosario and their three children - Aurora, Ricardo, and Alejandro - moved to Chicago, where he taught at the University of Chicago and constantly interacted with Lewontin. Both Richard and Rosario later moved to Harvard with the sponsorship of E. O. Wilson, with whom they had later disputes over sociobiology. Levins was elected member of the US National Academy of Sciences but resigned because of the Academy's role in advising the US military during the war. He had been a member of the US and Puerto Rican Communist Parties, the Movimiento Pro Independencia (the Independence movement in Puerto Rico), and the Puerto Rican Socialist Party, and he was on an FBI surveillance list.\n\nUntil his death, Levins was John Rock Professor of Population Sciences and head of the Human Ecology program in the Department of Global Health and Population of the Harvard School of Public Health. In the early 1990s, Levins and others formed the Harvard Working Group on New and Resurgent Diseases. Their work showed that alarming new infections had sprung from changes in the environment, either natural or caused by humans (Wilson et al. 1994).\n\nDuring his final two decades, Levins had concentrated on application of ecology to agriculture, particularly in the economically less-well-developed nations of this planet. As a member of the OXFAM-America Board of Directors and former chair of their subcommittee on Latin America and the Caribbean, Richard Levins worked from a critique of the industrial-commercial pathway of development and promoted alternative development pathways which focused attention upon (a) economic viability with (b) population equity, (c) ecological and social sustainability, and (d) empowerment of the dispossessed.\n\nWhen his wife Rosario died in 2011, his daughter Aurora moved in with her father in his Cambridge, Massachusetts home.\n\nOne of Levins's grandchildren is Minneapolis-based hip hop artist Manny Phesto.\n\nLevins died in Cambridge, Massachusetts, on January 19, 2016.\n\nPrior to Levins' work, population genetics had assumed the environment to be constant, while mathematical ecology assumed the genetic makeup of the species involved to be constant. Levins modelled the situation in which evolution is taking place while the environment changes. One of the surprising consequences of his model is that selection need not maximize adaptation, and that species can select themselves to extinction. He encapsulated his major early results in \"Evolution in Changing Environments\", a book based on lectures he delivered in Cuba in the early 1960s. Levins made extensive use of mathematics, some of which he invented himself, although it had been previously developed in other areas of pure mathematics or economics without his awareness of it. For instance, Levins makes extensive use of convex set theory for fitness sets, (resembling the economic formulations of J. R. Hicks) and extends Sewall Wright's path analysis to the analysis of causal feedback loops.\n\nThe term metapopulation was coined by Levins in 1969 to describe a \"population of populations\". Populations inhabit a landscape of suitable habitat patches, each capable of hosting a local sub-population. Local populations may become extinct and be subsequently recolonized by immigration from patches; the fate of such a system of local populations (i.e., the metapopulation) depends on the balance between extinctions and colonizations. Levins introduced a model consisting of a single differential equation, nowadays known as the Levins model, to describe the dynamics of average patch occupancy in such systems. Metapopulation theory has since become an important area of spatial ecology, with applications in conservation biology, population management, and pest control.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28846658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28846658", "title": "RoughRider wheelchair", "text": "RoughRider wheelchair\n\nThe RoughRider wheelchair is a low-cost, durable and appropriate technology wheelchair designed for use in developing countries. The design of the RoughRider originally was open-source and has been revised with input from wheelchair users in over 40 countries since 1980. The RoughRider was created to fill the demand for a reliable wheelchair for over 20 million disabled people in the developing world who need a wheelchair and do not have one.\n\nThe earliest recorded history of a wheelchair was inscribed in stone on a Chinese Sarcophagus in the 6th century A.D. There have been many variations on the basic design since then but standard features always included rear wheels, front caster wheels, footrests, side frames and seating features. Until recently wheelchairs were designed for relatively smooth surfaces and paved streets and were not designed for rugged environments. Thirty years ago, Ralf Hotchkiss, an engineer with paraplegia and a frequent traveler to developing countries, saw the need for a high quality and rugged chair that could withstand conditions in rough terrain. He began a thirty year process of collaborative design using locally available parts with a cost low enough to be affordable to disabled persons in developing regions. For many years, Ralf and a team would travel to small machine shops in developing countries to teach the technical skills necessary for local production of the RoughRider model. Several of these shops are developing to scale in parts of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the former Soviet Union.\n\nRoughRider functional design features include: low armrests to enable easy lateral transfers from chair to other surfaces, Pneumatic rear tires which are replaceable in bicycle shops worldwide, and adjustable rear wheel position which optimizes mechanical stability and performance for riders of different abilities. The design includes a long wheelbase with extra-wide front caster wheels that fit under the footrests and prevents tipping forward and is easier to push than standard wheelchair models. The extra wide \"Zimbabwe\" caster wheels provide a smooth ride over rough ground surfaces while still being able to \"float\" over soft surfaces like sand without getting stuck. The foldable X-brace allows for storage and transport and allows the seat width to be adjustable. Additional modifications to shorten or lengthen the seat depth and back height are accomplished by adding foam cushions under or behind the seat cushion. Footrest adjustments are made by loosening one bolt on the footrest arm.\n\nDue to the 7/8\" steel tubing used for the sideframes, chosen for low cost and universal availability, the RoughRider weighs about 40 lbs which may be too heavy for some newly injured riders to navigate up steep hills. The RoughRider does not have an anti-tip bar which would make the rider safer during a backwards wheelie and has only recently added wheelguards that reduce mud and water splatter on the rider. Both of these features is currently under development. There is also a need for a rugged active chair for disabled children in developing countries and a child's version of the RoughRider is currently being tested in South Africa.\n"}
{"id": "176732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176732", "title": "Scent hound", "text": "Scent hound\n\nScent hounds (or scenthounds) are a type of hound that primarily hunts by scent rather than sight. These breeds are hunting dogs and are generally regarded as having some of the most sensitive noses among canines.\n\nHounds are hunting dogs that either hunt by following the scent of a game animal (\"scenthounds\") or by following the animal by sight (sighthounds). There are many breeds in the \"scenthound type\", and scenthounds may do other work as well, so exactly which breeds should be called \"scenthound\" can be controversial. Kennel clubs assign breeds of dogs to \"Groups\", which are loosely based on breed \"types\". Each kennel club determines which breeds it will place in a given group.\n\nScent hounds specialize in following a smell or scent. Most of these breeds have long, drooping ears. One theory says that this trait helps to collect scent from the air and keep it near the dog's face and nose. They also have large nasal cavities, which helps them smell better. Their typically loose, moist lips are said to assist in trapping scent particles.\n\nMost of these breeds have deep, booming voices and use them actively when running, and especially when following a scent trail. Although this can be a nuisance in settled areas, it is a valuable trait that allows the dog's handler to follow the dog or pack of dogs during a hunt even when they are out of sight, such as when following a fox or raccoon through woodland.\n\nScent hounds do not need to be as fast as sight hounds, because they do not need to keep prey in sight, but they need endurance so that they can stick with a scent and follow it for long distances over rough terrain. The best scent hounds can follow a scent trail even across running water and even when it is several days old. Most scent hounds are used for hunting in packs of multiple dogs. Longer-legged hounds run more quickly and usually require that the hunters follow on horseback; shorter-legged hounds allow hunters to follow on foot. Hunting with some breeds, such as German Bracke, American Foxhounds, or coonhounds, involves allowing the pack of dogs to run freely while the hunters wait in a fixed spot until the dogs' baying announces that the game has been \"treed\". The hunters then go to the spot on foot, following the sound of the dogs' baying.\n\nThe Fédération Cynologique Internationale (FCI) places scent hounds into their classification \"Group 6\". This includes a subdivision, \"Section 2, Leash Hounds\", some examples of which are the Bavarian Mountain Scenthound (Bayrischer Gebirgsschweisshund, no. 217), the Hanoverian Scenthound (Hannover'scher Schweisshund, no. 213), and the Alpine Dachsbracke (Alpenländische Dachsbracke, no. 254). In addition, the Dalmatian and the Rhodesian Ridgeback are placed in Group 6 as \"Related breeds\".\n\nThe United Kennel Club divides its Scenthound Group into two categories. The first, Tree Hounds, includes the American hunting dogs known as coonhounds and the European hounds from which they were developed. The second category is named Trailing Scenthounds, and includes dogs used for the tracking of game animals, and of humans (as in search-and-rescue, and fugitive capture). They are also used for explosives detection. The Trailing group are reputedly descended from a type of bloodhound kept by monks in Belgium.\n\nGenetic studies indicate that the scent hounds are more closely related to each other than they do with other branches on the dog family tree.\n\nThe \"scent hound\" type includes the following breeds:\n\nThe \"Scenthound Group\" is the group category used by the United Kennel Club (US), which it divides into two categories. The first includes the American hunting dogs known as coonhounds and the European hounds from which they were developed. These are referred to as Tree Hounds. The category also includes curs, American dogs bred for hunting bears, feral pigs, and similar large game. The second category is referred to as trailing scenthounds, and includes dogs used for tracking of humans, reputedly descended from the St. Hubert Hounds (ancestor of today's Bloodhound breed) kept by monks in Belgium.\n\nThis article only covers the major kennel clubs in the English-speaking world, but there are national clubs in many countries where many of these breeds may also be listed in similar or other Breed Groups.\n\nMany of the regional breeds recognised by the United Kennel Club are very few in number in the United States. As a US-based club they have specialised in the registry of North American breeds, especially hunting and working/utility dogs. The United Kennel Club also lists internationally recognised (Fédération Cynologique Internationale) breeds that are few in number outside their native areas. Many of these are called rare breeds in the United States, and breeders and dog owners may register their dogs with any of the very large number of small breed clubs, dog sport clubs, minor kennel clubs and internet-based dog businesses, in order to participate in the club's or business' activities. For breeds not yet recognised by one of the major kennel clubs, there are usually numerous competing breed clubs for each individual breed.\n\nA breed that is not recognised by a kennel club means that it has not been sufficiently vetted according to that particular kennel club's rules. It does not mean that the breed is not a breed. A kennel club usually requires a breed to have a large enough breed club to warrant the training of judges for the breed, as well as a specific amount of documentation, to accept a breed.\n\n"}
{"id": "3036513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3036513", "title": "SingHealth", "text": "SingHealth\n\nSingHealth is Singapore's largest group of healthcare institutions. The group was formed in 2000 and consists of four public hospitals, five national specialty centres and a network of nine polyclinics. It includes Singapore's oldest and largest hospital, Singapore General Hospital, as well as several of Singapore's largest specialty centres.\n\nOn 3 November 2009, Singapore General Hospital and SingHealth Group launched the inaugural issue of Singapore Health – a newspaper reporting on health-related matters affecting Singaporeans.\n\nOn 18 November 2011, Changi General Hospital left SingHealth and formed the Eastern Health Alliance along with St. Andrew’s Community Hospital, SingHealth Polyclinics and The Salvation Army Peacehaven Nursing Home.\n\nOn 20 January 2017, SingHealth announced that it would be merging with the Eastern Health Alliance, bringing Changi General Hospital back into the SingHealth cluster.\n\nSingHealth operates SingHealth Polyclinics, a network of primary care polyclinics largely situated in the southeast, east, and northeast Singapore. They provide primary care services to the population in those areas, and also provide training for family medicine physicians.\n\nSingapore General Hospital (SGH) is a 1,785-bed tertiary hospital (as of 2017) in Outram. It was founded in 1821, and is the largest and oldest hospital in Singapore. Its sprawling campus also includes several other specialty centres as well as Outram Polyclinic.\n\nKK Women's and Children's Hospital (KKH) is a 830-bed women and children-only hospital in Kampong Java. It was founded 1858 as a small general hospital, but then specialised as a maternity hospital, and later added paediatric services well. It is the largest hospital in Singapore dedicated to women's and children's healthcare.\n\nChangi General Hospital (CGH) is a 1,000-bed regional hospital in Simei. It was founded in 1998 to serve patients in the east and northeast of Singapore. In 2011, it left SingHealth to form the Eastern Health Alliance with other healthcare institutions in the area, but in 2017 merged back with SingHealth.\n\nSengkang General Hospital (SKH) is a 1,000-bed regional hospital in Sengkang. It was founded in 2012 to serve patients in northeast of Singapore and to alleviate the patient load of CGH. It initially trialled operations in Alexandra Hospital and later moved to its current campus in 2018. It is co-located with Sengkang Community Hospital (SKCH), with which it forms the SKH Campus.\n\nSingapore National Eye Centre (SNEC) is a specialty centre for ophthalmological services. It was founded in 1990 and is the largest ophthalmology specialist centre in Singapore.\n\nNational Cancer Centre Singapore (NCCS) is a specialty centre for the diagnosis, treatment, and research of cancer in Outram. It was established in 1993 by branching off the oncological services of SGH into an autonomous institution. It is Singapore's largest specialty centre for cancer, and claims to be Southeast Asia's only full multidisciplinary centre for cancer.\n\nNational Heart Centre Singapore (NHCS) is a specialty centre for cardiovsacular disease in Outram. It was established in 1994 and took over the cardiac services of SGH in 1995.\n\nNational Dental Centre Singapore (NDCS) is a specialty centre for specialist oral healthcare services in Outram. It was founded in 1997 and claims to offer the largest concentration of specialist expertise in a single facility.\n\nNational Neuroscience Institute (NNI) is a specialty centre for neurological diseases. It was established in 1999 by transferring the neurological and neurosurgery services of Tan Tock Seng Hospital into an separate institution. It has a campus co-located with SGH in Outram, but — unlike other SingHealth specialty centres — also has a campus located with Tan Tock Seng Hospital in Novena, Singapore.\n\nBright Vision Hospital (BVH) is a 318-bed community hospital in Hougang. It was founded by Singapore Buddhist Welfare services in 2001, who then transferred ownership of the hospital to SingHealth in 2011 due to management challenges.\n\nOutram Community Hospital (OCH) is an upcoming community hospital under construction in Outram.\n\nSengkang Community Hospital (SKCH) is an upcoming community hospital under construction in Sengkang. It is co-located with SKH and together they form the SKH Campus.\n\nBetween 27 June and 4 July 2018, the personal particulars of 1.5 million SingHealth patients, and records of outpatient dispensed medicines for 160,000 of those patients, were stolen in a cyberattack. The names, NRIC numbers, addresses, dates of birth, race, and gender of patients who visited specialist outpatient clinics and polyclinics between 1 May 2015 and 4 July 2018 were maliciously accessed and copied. Information relating to patient diagnosis, test results and doctors' notes were unaffected. Information on Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong was specifically targeted.\n\nThe database administrators for the Integrated Health Information Systems (IHIS), the public healthcare IT provider, detected unusual activity on one of SingHealth’s IT databases on 4 July, and implemented precautions against further intrusions. Network traffic monitoring was enhanced; additional malicious activity was detected after 4 July, but did not result in the theft of any data. Having ascertained that a cyberattack occurred, administrators notified the ministries and involved the Cyber Security Agency (CSA) on 10 July to carry out forensic investigations. The agency determined that perpetrators gained privileged access to the IT network by compromising a front-end workstation, and obtained login credentials to assess the database, while hiding their digital footprints. News of the attack was made public in a statement released by the Ministry of Communications and Information and Ministry of Health on 20 July. The ten-day delay between the discovery of the attack and the public announcement was attributed to time needed to fortify the IT systems, conduct preliminary investigations, identify affected patients and prepare the logistics of the announcement. Text messages were subsequently sent to patients whose data was affected.\n\nIn Parliament, S. Iswaran, Minister for Communications and Information, attributed the attack to sophisticated state-linked actors who wrote customized malware to circumvent SingHealth's antivirus and security tools. Iswaran did not name any state, in the interest of national security.\n\nA Committee of Inquiry was convened to investigate the causes of the attack and identify measures to help prevent similar attacks. The four-member committee is chaired by former chief district judge Richard Magnus, and comprise leaders of a cyber-security firm, a healthcare technology firm and the National Trades Union Congress respectively. The committee called on the Attorney-General's Chambers to lead evidence, and the Attorney-General's Chambers appointed the Cyber Security Agency to lead the investigations with the support of the Criminal Investigation Department. The committee will hold closed-door and public hearings from 28 August, and will receive public submissions.\n\nFollowing the cyberattack, Internet access was temporarily removed from all public healthcare IT terminals with access to the healthcare network, and additional system monitoring and controls were implemented.\n\nThe attack led to a two-week pause in Singapore's Smart Nation initiatives and a review of the public sector's cyber-security policies during that time. The review resulted in implementation of additional security measures, and urged public sector administrators to remove Internet access where possible and to use secure information exchange gateways otherwise. The attack also renewed concerns among some healthcare practitioners regarding ongoing efforts to centralize electronic patient data in Singapore. Plans to pass laws in late 2018 making it compulsory for healthcare providers to submit data regarding patient visits and diagnoses to the National Electronic Health Record system were postponed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17069769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17069769", "title": "Sleep and creativity", "text": "Sleep and creativity\n\nThe majority of studies on sleep creativity have shown that sleep can facilitate insightful behavior and flexible reasoning, and there are several hypotheses about the creative function of dreams. On the other hand, a few recent studies have supported a theory of creative insomnia, in which creativity is significantly correlated with sleep disturbance.\n\n\nIn a study on cognitive flexibility across the sleep-wake cycle, researchers discovered that when woken from REM sleep, participants had a 32% advantage on an anagram task (when compared with the number of correct responses after NREM awakenings). This was consistent with the hypothesis that due to the lack of aminergic dominance in REM sleep, this particular sleep state is highly conducive to fluid reasoning and flexible thought. Participant performance after awakening from REM sleep was not better than participants who stayed awake, which indicates that in REM sleep, there is an alternative (but just as effective) mode of problem solving that differs from the mechanism available while awake.\n\nParticipants in a study were asked to translate a string of digits using two simple rules that allowed the string to be reduced to a single digit (number reduction task). Out of three groups of participants (those who slept, those who stayed awake during the day, and those who stayed awake during the night), participants who got eight hours of sleep were two times as likely during retesting to gain insight into a hidden rule built into the task.\n\nSome participants in a study went 32 hours without sleep while the control participants slept normally. When tested on flexibility and originality on figural and verbal tests, the sleep-deprived participants had severe and persistent impairments in their performance.\n\nUnder hypnotic-induced sleep, participants were much more likely to produce paraphrases of jokes that they had heard before and to spontaneously create new jokes (when compared with their performance while awake).\n\nRecent studies have also shown that sleep not only helps consolidate memory, but also integrates relational memories. In one study, the participants were tested to see if sleep helped in this aspect (Ellenbogen et al., 2007, as cited in Walker, 2009). The subjects of the experiment were taught five \"premise pairs\", A>B, B>C, C>D, and D>E. They were not aware of the overall hierarchy, where A>B>C>D>E. The subjects were split into 3 separate groups. The first group was tested 20 minutes after learning the pairs, the second was tested 12 hours later without sleep, and the third was tested 12 hours later with sleep in between. The groups were tested in both first degree pairs (A>B, C>D, etc.) and 2nd degree pairs (A>C, B>D, or C>E). The results were that with the first degree pairs, the first group only performed at around chance levels, and the second and third groups had significantly better performances. With the 2nd degree pairs, the first group still performed at around chance levels, and the second group performed at about the same level as in the 1st degree pair test. However, the third group performed even better than before, gaining a 25% advantage over the group without sleep. The results of this study showed that sleep is a significant factor in integrating memories, or gaining the bigger picture.\n\n\"Creative insomnia\" refers to the idea that insomnia can actually spark creativity.\n\n\nAlthough no studies have actually shown a causal relationship yet, various studies have suggested that the positive relationship between sleep and creativity is more complicated and less clear-cut than previously thought.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59209783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59209783", "title": "Smoking Vapor (electronic cigarette brand)", "text": "Smoking Vapor (electronic cigarette brand)\n\nSmoking Vapor is a United States company founded by Amir Hakak in 2008 that manufacturers and internationally markets e-liquid vaporizers. \n\nThe company started in 2008 as mostly a retail vape kiosk business. After the 2010 lawsuit that overturned the FDA’s blockade on e-cigs, Hakak went about designing and manufacturing cig-a-like products instead of just outsourcing from suppliers. In 2013, Geoff bought half of the business and rebranded and restructured the business. SV’s first success came with the Mi-One that launched in 2016. The Mi-Pod released in 2017, a classic e-liquid vaporizer, was an even greater success. Smoking Vapor was named on INC's 5001 list in 2016 and 2017. \n"}
{"id": "27555228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27555228", "title": "The Happiness Hypothesis", "text": "The Happiness Hypothesis\n\nThe Happiness Hypothesis: Finding Modern Truth in Ancient Wisdom is a 2006 psychology book by Jonathan Haidt written for a general audience. In it, Haidt poses several \"Great Ideas\" on happiness espoused by thinkers of the past – Plato, Buddha, Jesus and others – and examines them in the light of contemporary psychological research, extracting from them any lessons that still apply to our modern lives. Central to the book are the concepts of virtue, happiness, fulfillment, and meaning.\n\nThe Introduction first explains that the author's goal is to reduce the infinite 'wisdom' accessible to modern people into 10 great ideas, one per chapter. The remainder of the Introduction provides a concise preview of those ten chapters as follows. The first chapter describes how each person has two parts: the primitive part which includes our basic instincts and the highly evolved part which tries to control the instincts. This effort to control our instincts is shown in Chapter Two to tend to cause us too much worry, but various techniques, such as meditation, might be employed to detach the worrier from his worries. The Third Chapter goes to the relationship of the individual to other individuals by beginning with the Golden Rule of doing unto others as you would have them do unto you. That leads in the Fourth Chapter to a description of the tendency that people have of seeing faults in others more readily than in themselves, which by simply realizing we might go to some length to rectify and thus come closer to living by the Golden Rule. By the Fifth Chapter, at the half-way point of the book, Haidt introduces the notion of the Happiness Hypothesis. The Happiness Hypothesis could be that happiness comes from within, as Buddha said, or could be that happiness comes from outside. Haidt argues in Chapter Six that the truth might lie between the two extremes and contends that love depends on more than the self and is crucial to happiness. The Seventh Chapter asks whether adversity is essential to happiness and provides a nuanced answer which is that it depends on your stage in life. Achieving happiness is a complex process which includes acting virtuously, and Haidt claims in Chapter Eight that behaving virtuously means to do as Aristotle said and to develop your strengths and realize your native potential. Chapter Nine extends the idea that a person's happiness benefits from living virtuously by noting that some feeling of divinity helps where divinity comes through a life-long practice of moral actions. Chapter Ten takes this idea of a life-long practice yet further and contends that a happy life is one where you get the relationships right between yourself and others, yourself and your work, and between your work and something larger than yourself—you feel a sense of purpose.\n\nHaidt looks at a number of ways of dividing the self that have existed since ancient times:\n\n\nHaidt focuses on this last division, between the conscious/reasoned processes and automatic/implicit processes. His metaphor is a rider on the back of an elephant in which the conscious mind is the rider and the unconscious mind is the elephant. The rider is unable to control the elephant by force: this explains many puzzles about our mental life, particularly why we have such trouble with weakness of will. Learning how to train the elephant is the secret of self-improvement.\n\nThe automatic emotional reactions of the \"elephant\" (affective priming) guide us throughout our lives. People even tend to choose mates, and professions, whose names resemble their own. Though there is a bias towards negativity, some people are optimists and others pessimists. Haidt discusses three ways of changing those automatic reactions: meditation, cognitive therapy, and SSRI medications such as Prozac.\n\nHaidt naturally must make simplifications to present in a 300-page book as much of an overview of biology, psychology, philosophy, sociology, and medicine as he attempts. However, in Chapter 2 he makes a risky oversimplification. For starters, the approaches to reducing negativity are classified as meditation, cognitive behavioral therapy, and Prozac. However, those might better be broadly categorized as behavioral and physical interventions. At that point, one would appreciate that physical interventions go well beyond Prozac or the class of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) of which Prozac is an instance. For example, research has shown that benzodiazepine is a better drug for generalized anxiety disorders than SSRIs. More generally, Haidt gives inadequate attention to adverse effects of pharmacologic treatments. A meta-analytic review of 131 controlled trials done in the 21st century on 25,000 patients said, \"SSRIs might have statistically significant effects on depressive symptoms, but all trials were at high risk of bias and the clinical significance seems questionable. SSRIs significantly increase the risk of both serious and non-serious adverse events. The potential small beneficial effects seem to be outweighed by harmful effects.\"\n\nMany species have a social life, but among mammals, only humans in particular are ultra-social – able to live in very large cooperative groups. The Golden Rule, supplemented with gossip, is the secret of our success. Calling on Robert Cialdini's \"six weapons of influence\", Haidt describes ways in which understanding the deep workings of reciprocity can help to solve problems in our social lives and guard against the many ways that we can be manipulated.\n\nPart of our ultra-sociality is that we are constantly trying to manipulate others' perceptions of ourselves, without realizing that we are doing so. As Jesus said, we see the faults of others clearly, but are blind to our own. (\"Why do you see the speck in your neighbour's eye, but do not notice the log in your own eye?\") Haidt looks at what social psychology has to say about this, beginning with the work of Daniel Batson on cheating and self-justification, mentioning Robert Wright's description of our \"constitutional ignorance\" of hypocrisy\" in The Moral Animal\", and moving on to work by Deanna Kuhn and David Perkins on confirmation bias and Roy Baumeister's work on \"The Myth of Pure Evil\" Haidt then discusses ways of taking off \"the moral glasses\" and seeing the world as it really is.\n\nIt is a common idea that happiness comes from within and can't be found in external things. For a while in the 1990s, psychologists agreed with ancient sages (such as Buddha and Epictetus) that external conditions are not what matters. But Haidt argues that we now know that some external circumstances do matter. He identifies ways of improving happiness by altering these, including spending money well, and argues that the Western emphasis on action and striving is not without merit.\n\nThere are many kinds of love, but, Haidt asserts, they all begin to make sense when you see where love comes from, and what it does. To do this he examines John Bowlby's World Health Organization-sponsored study and report, \"Maternal Care and Mental Health\" in 1950, and the subsequent work with monkeys by Harry Harlow. Understanding the different kinds of love, he writes, can help explain why people make so many mistakes with love, and why philosophers hate love and give us bad advice about it.\n\nNietzsche wrote, \"What doesn't kill me makes me stronger\", but this is not true for everyone; adversity may result in post-traumatic stress disorder. Haidt discusses how and why some people grow from their suffering, along with ways of improving one's chances of finding post-traumatic growth. Adversity at the right time in life, as Robert Sternberg's research on wisdom shows, can make people more compassionate and better able to balance the needs of self and others.\n\nTaking Benjamin Franklin as an example, Haidt looks at how success can follow virtue, in the broad sense of virtue that goes back to the Ancient Greek \"arete\", excellence. The ancients, according to Haidt, had a sophisticated psychological understanding of virtue, using maxims, fables and role-models to train \"the elephant\", the automatic responses of the individual. Though the beginnings of Western virtue lie in Homer, Aesop and the Old Testament, the modern understanding of it has much to do with the arguments of Kant (the categorical imperative) and Bentham (utilitarianism). With these came a shift from character ethics to quandary ethics, from moral education to moral reasoning.\n\nTo address the question of how a common morality can be forged in a diverse society, Haidt turns to positive psychology, specifically to \nSeligman and Peterson's work on virtues and strengths.\n\nUsing the metaphor of Flatland, Haidt argues that the perception of sacredness and divinity are two basic features of the human mind; the emotions of disgust, moral elevation, and awe tell us about this dimension, but not everybody listens. The \"religious right\" can only be understood by acknowledging this dimension, which most liberals and secular thinkers ignore or misunderstand. The work of William James and of Abraham Maslow (on \"peak experiences\") shows ways in which this dimension is also relevant to the non-religious.\n\nHaidt discusses \"the meaning of life\", making the distinction between a purpose \"for\" life and a purpose \"within\" life. Love and work give a sense of meaning to life. A study by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, Howard Gardner and William Damon established the concept of \"vital engagement\" which characterises work with the most sense of purpose. \"Cross-level coherence\" within one's self and life is also vital, coherence between the physical, psychological and socio-cultural levels. Religion is an evolved mechanism for creating this coherence.\n\nHaidt concludes by arguing that the ancient idea of Yin and Yang turns out to be the wisest idea of all. We need, he writes, the perspectives of ancient religion and modern science; of east and west; even of liberal and conservative. \"Words of wisdom really do flood over us, but only by drawing from many sources can we become wise.\"\n\n\"The Happiness Hypothesis\" received positive reviews. Daniel Nettle, reviewing the book in \"Nature\", accepted its central premise of a \"striking similarity between the advice of the ancients on how to live, and the thoughts of modern psychologists on how to have a healthy mind\". He was impressed by the breadth of Haidt's grasp of modern behavioural science, and found the book \"by some margin the most intellectually substantial book to arise from the 'positive psychology' movement\". James Flint concluded his review of the book in \"The Guardian\" saying, \"I don't think I've ever read a book that laid out the contemporary understanding of the human condition with such simple clarity and sense.\" Christopher Hart writing in \"The Times\" described the book as \"humane, witty and comforting... brilliantly synthesising ancient cultural insights with modern psychology\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5022602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5022602", "title": "Torfinnsvatnet", "text": "Torfinnsvatnet\n\nTorfinnsvatnet is a lake in the municipality of Voss in Hordaland county, Norway. The lake lies about east of the lake Hamlagrøvatnet. The lake has a dam on the west side, which keeps the water level regulated for the local hydroelectric power plants. The river Torfinno connects the lake to the nearby lake Hamlagrøvatnet.\n\n"}
{"id": "142022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142022", "title": "WWT Slimbridge", "text": "WWT Slimbridge\n\nWWT Slimbridge is a wetland wildlife reserve near Slimbridge in Gloucestershire, England. It is midway between Bristol and Gloucester on the eastern side of the estuary of the River Severn. The reserve, set up by the artist and naturalist Sir Peter Scott, opened in November 1946. Scott subsequently founded the Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust, which has since opened eight reserves around the country. Slimbridge comprises some of pasture, reed bed, lagoon and salt marsh. Many water birds live there all year round, and others are migrants on their ways to and from their summer breeding grounds. Other birds overwinter, including large numbers of white-fronted geese and increasing numbers of Bewick's swans.\n\nBesides having the world's largest collection of captive wildfowl, Slimbridge takes part in research and is involved in projects and internationally run captive breeding programmes. It was there that Peter Scott developed a method of recognising individual birds through their characteristics, after realising that the coloured patterns on the beaks of Bewick's swans were unique. The public can visit the reserve throughout the year. Besides examining the collections, they can view birds from hides and observatories and take part in educational activities.\n\nThe Wildlife and Wetland Trust at Slimbridge was set up by Peter Scott and opened on 10 November 1946, as a centre for research and conservation. In a move unusual at the time, he opened the site to the public so that everyone could enjoy access to nature.\n\nThis modest beginning developed in time into the formation of the Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust, the only United Kingdom charity to promote the protection of wetland birds and their habitats, both in Britain and internationally. Although starting out at Slimbridge, the Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust now owns or manages eight other reserves in Britain, and advocates for wetlands and conservation issues world-wide. WWT Consulting is an offshoot of the Wildlife & Wetland Trust and is based at Slimbridge. It provides ecological surveys and assessments, and offers consultancy services in wetland habitat design, wetland management, biological waste-water treatment systems and the management of reserves and their visitor centres. The Queen in later years became Patron to the WWT, and Prince Charles became the President.\n\nA bust of founder Sir Peter Scott by Jacqueline Shackleton was completed in 1986 and is on display in the grounds. His wife Philippa, Lady Scott, sat for Jon Edgar as part of his Environmental Series of heads, and a bronze was unveiled in the visitor centre in December 2011. A sculpture by Peter Scott's mother, Kathleen Scott, entitled: Here Am I, Send Me!, originally commissioned for West Downs Preparatory School, is also on display in the grounds.\n\nThe site consists of of reserve, of which part is landscaped and can be visited by the public. At Slimbridge is the largest collection of wildfowl species in the world, and wild birds mingle with these in the enclosures. Some of the captive birds form part of international breeding programmes. The reserve includes a mixture of pastureland, much of which gets flooded in winter, lagoons, reed beds and salt marshes besides the Severn Estuary. Many wildfowl visit the site including greater white-fronted geese, spoonbills, avocets and even common cranes, the latter being birds that were originally bred here and later released on the Somerset Levels. There are also some rare species of plant on the reserve including the grass-poly (\"Lythrum hyssopifolia\") and the wasp orchid, a variant of the bee orchid (\"Ophrys apifera\").\n\nThe number of ducks, geese and swans is greatest in winter, with large flocks of greater white-fronted geese, sometimes with a rare lesser white-fronted goose amongst them. Bewick's swans are a feature of Slimbridge in winter, arriving from northern Russia to enjoy the milder climate of southern England. Their behaviour has been studied intensively at Slimbridge. Birds of prey such as peregrine and merlin also visit the centre in the winter, as well as wading birds and some woodland birds, and it is a good place to see the elusive water rail.\n\nSpecies present all year round include little and great crested grebes, lapwing, redshank, tufted duck, gadwall, kingfisher, reed bunting, great spotted woodpecker, sparrowhawk and little owl. In the spring, passage waders visit the pools alongside the estuary; these include whimbrel, common, wood and green sandpipers, spotted redshank, common greenshank, avocet, godwit, little gull and black tern, and other migrants arriving at the reserve include wheatear, whinchat, redstart and black redstart.\n\nSwans and geese usually start to arrive in late October. Passage waders in the autumn include red knot, godwit, dunlin, ringed and grey plovers, ruff, common greenshank, spotted redshank, curlew sandpiper and common, wood and green sandpipers. Besides Bewick's swan and flocks of white-fronted geese, large waterfowl regularly present in the reserve in winter include the Brant goose, pink-footed goose, barnacle goose and Taiga bean goose. The swans tend to fly off in the day and return to feed in the late afternoon, and another spectacular sight at the end of winter afternoons is the arrival of large flocks of starlings. Smaller wildfowl present in winter include wigeon, Eurasian teal, common pochard, northern pintail, water rail, dunlin, redshank, curlew, golden plover, snipe and ruff.\n\nBefore the establishment of the WWT reserve at Slimbridge, no Bewick's swans were regularly wintering on the Severn Estuary. In 1948, one arrived at Slimbridge, perhaps attracted by a captive whistling swan. A mate for this bird was acquired from the Netherlands and the pair eventually successfully bred. More wild Bewick's swans joined the group so that by 1964, more than thirty wild swans were present. So that the birds could be better studied, the tame resident swans were relocated to an easily observable lake. Peter Scott realised that every bird had a unique patterning of black and yellow on its beak by which individual birds could be recognised. These were recorded in small paintings with front and side views (rather like \"mug shots\") to aid recognition. By 1989, over six thousand swans had been recorded visiting the site, and by this means, much research was made possible on the birds.\n\nAn early success story in the 1950s was the saving of the nene (or Hawaiian goose) from extinction. Birds were brought to the site and breeding at Slimbridge was successful. Initial releases into the wild in Hawaii were a failure however, because the nene's natural habitat was not protected from the predators that had been introduced to the islands by man. Once that problem was alleviated, successful reintroduction became possible.\n\nDuring Princess Elizabeth's 1951 tour of Canada, she was promised a Dominion gift of trumpeter swans, the arrangements to be made by Peter Scott. Canadian officials discovered the only swans tame enough to capture were at Lonesome Lake in British Columbia as they had been fed for decades by conservationist Ralph Edwards. In 1952, with the help of Ralph and his daughter Trudy, five were captured and flown to England, the first time trumpeter swans had ever flown across the Atlantic (although in the 19th century swans had been brought by ship to European zoos). One unfortunately died, but the remaining four thrived at WWT Slimbridge for many years.\n\nSlimbridge has also been involved in trying to increase population levels of common cranes, which had bred spasmodically in Britain since the late 1970s. A specially built \"Crane School\" is used where the young birds are taught to forage and avoid danger. This project has led to 23 birds being released onto the Somerset Moors and Levels in September 2013, and 93 being released by the end of 2015.\n\nIn September 2016, a researcher from Slimbridge is planning to become a \"human swan\" and follow migrating Bewick's swans using a powered paraglider. She plans to try to find out the hazards they face during migration and why their numbers have halved in the last twenty years. The mission from the Arctic tundra of Russia to Slimbridge is expected to last for ten weeks.\n\nThe Sloane Observation Tower gives far-reaching views to the Cotswold escarpment in the east and the River Severn and Forest of Dean in the West. The £6.2m visitor centre has a shop, waterside restaurant, cinema, art gallery and tropical house, and exhibitions are held in the \"Hanson Discovery Centre\". There are sixteen hides that visitors can use for bird watching, as well as several comfortable observatories. Educational visits are available for schools and there is a programme of guided walks, events, talks and workshops.\n\nVisitors are allowed to feed the captive birds with approved food mixes bought on site, and during the winter, feeding of wild birds near one of the hides takes place at certain scheduled times, including on some floodlit occasions in the evening for visiting groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "1340479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1340479", "title": "Waste stabilization pond", "text": "Waste stabilization pond\n\nWaste stabilization ponds (WSPs or stabilization ponds or waste stabilization lagoons) are ponds designed and built for wastewater treatment to reduce the organic content and remove pathogens from wastewater. They are man-made depressions confined by earthen structures. Wastewater or \"influent\" enters on one side of the waste stabilization pond and exits on the other side as \"effluent\", after spending several days in the pond, during which treatment processes take place. \n\nWaste stabilization ponds are used worldwide for wastewater treatment and are especially suitable for developing countries that have warm climates. They are frequently used to treat sewage and industrial effluents, but may also be used for treatment of municipal run-off or stormwater. The system may consist of a single pond or several ponds in a series, each pond playing a different role in the removal of pollutants. After treatment, the effluent may be returned to surface water or reused as irrigation water (or reclaimed water) if the effluent meets the required effluent standards (e.g. sufficiently low levels of pathogens).\n\nWaste stabilization ponds involve natural treatment processes which take time because removal rates are slow. Therefore, larger areas are required than for other treatment processes with external energy inputs. Waste stabilization ponds described here use no aerators. High-performance lagoon technology that does use aerators has much more in common with the activated sludge process. Such aerated lagoons use less area than is needed for traditional stabilization ponds and are also common in small towns.\n\nSewage and many types of industrial wastewaters contain organic matter. If wastewater is discharged untreated into surface water bodies (for instance, rivers and lakes), their organic matter serves as food for microorganisms living in the surface waters. These organisms use the organic matter for energy generation for their growth and reproduction. This is done via their respiration, in which they convert the organic matter into carbon dioxide and water. These stable components do not cause water pollution problems. Therefore this is frequently called \"stabilization\" of the organic matter. \n\nHowever, these organisms use oxygen in their respiration, thus reducing the oxygen concentration in the surface waters. This is one of the main water pollution problems, which may affect the surface water biota, including fish. \n\nWaste stabilization ponds reproduce these biological phenomena before they take place in the receiving surface water and cause the pollution problems due to oxygen consumption. The ponds receive wastewater, and, by natural processes similar to those that take place in the surface waters, carry out stabilization of the organic matter inside them, as part of the treatment. This is why they received the name of waste stabilization ponds.\n\nThe reactions take place by the joint participation of several microorganisms living within the pond. The organic matter is measured as biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). BOD values in the pond effluent are lower than in the influent, reflecting the removal of organic matter. This pond biome uses organic matter from the wastewater as food. \n\nNutrients are converted to cell material and energy for life processes including reproduction and growth of living cells. Some of these living cells will be consumed by organisms at higher trophic levels within the pond. In ponds, the most important group of microorganisms are bacteria, which utilize most of the organic matter from the wastewater, but also consume oxygen. \n\nAlgae are another essential group of microorganisms. They do not depend on the organic material from the influent. Instead, they undertake photosynthesis, in which they produce the organic matter for their own consumption and, very importantly here, they release oxygen. The excess oxygen released supports the respiration done by the aerobic organisms in the pond. Atmospheric oxygen is also dissolved into the liquid, which assists in maintaining an aerobic layer on the top of the pond surface. \n\nThe oxygen concentration varies in the liquid column: Close to the surface, concentrations are high and support the growth of aerobic organisms. Close to the pond bottom, sunlight penetration is low, and thus photosynthetic activity is reduced. This causes oxygen concentrations to be low there. Finally, inside the sediments in the bottom layer, there is no oxygen at all. Here, organic matter is removed by digestion undertaken by anaerobic organisms. \n\nPathogens can be efficiently removed in waste stabilization ponds. The process relies mostly on maturation ponds for removal of pathogens, although some removal also takes place in the other ponds of the system. The higher the number of ponds in the series, the more efficient the pathogen removal. \n\nRemoval of pathogenic bacteria and viruses occurs mainly by inactivation. Pathogens are inactivated as a result of a complex interaction of mechanisms that involve pH (the pH value in ponds is high because of algal photosynthesis), temperature, ultraviolet radiation present in the sunlight that reaches the pond surface and photooxidative reactions taking advantage of high dissolved oxygen concentrations.\n\nProtozoan pathogens are present in the wastewater in the form of cysts or oocysts. Helminths (worms) are present in the form of eggs. The protozoan and helminth pathogens can be removed by the mechanism of sedimentation. Very high removal efficiencies may be achieved, especially if maturation ponds are part of the treatment system. In that case, the final pond effluent may be in compliance with World Health Organization guidelines for irrigating with treated wastewaster (or \"reclaimed water\"). However, sludge (sediment) from the ponds may be heavily contaminated with helminth eggs, which may survive even after several years of storing the sludge inside of the pond.\n\nWaste stabilization ponds consist of man-made basins comprising a single or several series of anaerobic, facultative or maturation ponds. The presence or absence of oxygen varies with the three different types of ponds, used in sequence. Anaerobic waste stabilization ponds have very little dissolved oxygen, thus anaerobic conditions prevail. The second type of pond, facultative stabilization ponds, sustain an aerobic surface habitat above an anaerobic benthic habitat. Maturation ponds offer aerobic conditions throughout, from the surface to the bottom.\n\nThe main configurations of pond systems are: \n\nIf an anaerobic pond is present, part of the suspended solids from the wastewater settles, thus removing the organic matter (BOD) contributed by these solids. Additionally, some of the dissolved organic matter is removed by anaerobic digestion. During the second stage in the facultative pond\",\" most of the remaining BOD is removed mainly by the heterotrophic bacteria that receive oxygen from the photosynthesis undertaken by algae. The main function of the tertiary stage in maturation ponds is the removal of pathogens, although it may also assist in nutrient reduction (i.e. nitrogen). However, nitrogen fixation by algae living in stabilization pond systems may increase nitrogen levels in stabilization pond effluent.\n\nAnaerobic ponds receive raw wastewater. They have a smaller surface area compared to facultative ponds and are also deeper (usually 3.0 to 5.0 m). The depth decreases the influence of oxygen production by photosynthesis, leading to anaerobic conditions. Depending on loading and climatic conditions, these ponds are able to remove between half to two thirds of the influent BOD. This significantly decreases the load of organic matter that goes to the facultative ponds, and thus decreases their required size. Anaerobic stabilization ponds have the disadvantage of potentially releasing malodorous gases. This especially includes hydrogen sulfide with an odor of rotten eggs, if the system has operational problems. \n\nThe first pond biome in a series of stabilization ponds digests the putrescible solids suspended in the wastewater being treated. Anaerobic ponds allow solids to settle down at the bottom as sludge. This settling removes a portion of the particulate organic material. A large fraction of the settled solids will accumulate close to the point where wastewater enters the pond. Therefore, anaerobic ponds must be designed to be far deeper than either aerobic or facultative ponds. The depth decreases the oxygen levels so anaerobic bacteria can efficiently digest the waste. Anaerobic ponds contain anaerobic organisms which are able to break down complex organic waste into basic compounds that are less harmful to the environment. Because anaerobic organisms can only thrive in warm temperatures, anaerobic ponds are not suitable in temperate or cold climates.\n\nSludge accumulates at the bottom of the anaerobic ponds and needs to be removed every few years.\n\nFacultative stabilization ponds that receive raw wastewater are called primary facultative ponds. If they are receiving wastewater that has already been treated in anaerobic ponds, they are called secondary facultative ponds. Facultative stabilization ponds may also be used for treatment following other types of treatment processes such as upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactors, oxidation ditches or aerated lagoons. Compared with anaerobic ponds, facultative ponds are shallower (1.5 to 2.5 m deep) and have much larger surface areas. The surface area is important because it allows atmospheric oxygen to dissolve and sunlight radiation to penetrate the water. This allows for photosynthetic activity to occur which produces more oxygen.\n\nIn most ponds both bacteria and algae are needed in order to maximize the decomposition of organic matter and the removal of other pollutants. Algae produce oxygen (photosynthesis) and also consume oxygen (respiration), but they leave an excess of oxygen that can then be used by aerobic bacteria for respiration and for the processes of oxidation (or stabilization) of the organic matter in the wastewater. \n\nSeveral types of invertebrates are present in the ponds where they control the population of algae, which then settles to the bottom. Heavy algal growth may block sunlight from penetrating into the pond. This decreases the potential for photosynthesis to contribute oxygen to the pond. \n\nIn the treatment of sewage, systems composed of anaerobic ponds followed by facultative ponds usually have overall BOD removal efficiencies between 75 and 85%. Higher efficiencies are difficult to achieve because the effluent contains high concentrations of particulate organic matter, in the form of algae, naturally produced during treatment. \n\nThe sludge comprising the sediment layer in the pond undergoes anaerobic digestion, and may accumulate for several years without needing removal. \n\nSome additional removal of organic matter and other pollutants may be achieved in maturation ponds. These ponds are only included in the treatment line when high efficiencies of pathogen removal are required, either for discharge of the treated effluent in surface water bodies, or for use for irrigation or aquaculture. They are usually used after facultative ponds, but may also follow other treatment processes, such as upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactors. They could also be placed after an activated sludge process. \n\nMaturation ponds must be shallow (around 1.0 m depth or less) with a great surface area so that more oxygen can dissolve into the water giving the bacteria enough oxygen to properly function. Shallow ponds benefit from high photosynthetic activity arising from the penetration of solar radiation. The pH values are high because of intense photosynthesis, and ultraviolet radiation penetration takes place in the upper layers. Both of these factors promote the removal of pathogenic bacteria and viruses. Given the high surface area of the maturation ponds, protozoan cysts and helminth eggs are also removed, with sedimentation as the main mechanism.\n\nSludge accumulation is very low in maturation ponds. \n\nVery high pathogen removal efficiencies may be achieved, depending on several factors: temperature, hydraulic retention time (the amount of time the liquid remains in the system - from entrance to exit), the number of ponds in the series, the presence of baffles and the depth of ponds.\n\nMaturation ponds may be used in combination with a rainwater reservoir to form an ecological, self-purifying irrigation reservoir.\nWaste stabilization ponds are very efficient in their primary objective of removing organic matter and, under some conditions, pathogenic organisms. Their design criteria have changed very little over the years. Ponds are simple to design, build, operate and maintain, which is very important in remote areas and in developing countries where sophisticated equipment and highly skilled labor is not easily available. Construction may be done by local contractors in small towns. \n\nWaste stabilization ponds work well in nearly all environments and can treat most types of wastewater. They are particularly well-suited for tropical and subtropical countries because the intensity of the sunlight and temperature are key factors for the efficiency of the removal processes. Ponds are used throughout the world. In many countries and regions ponds are the most widely used treatment process. For this reason, they are one of the processes recommended by WHO for the treatment of wastewater for reuse in agriculture and aquaculture, especially because of their effectiveness in removing nematodes (worms) and helminth eggs. \n\nPonds cannot achieve very high efficiencies in the removal of organic matter, and usually have low capacities for removing nitrogen and phosphorus. The effluent usually has high concentrations of suspended solids, resulting from algal production in the ponds. Therefore, ponds are not a suitable technology in areas where stringent discharge standards exist, unless additional stages of post treatment are included. \n\nSince ponds require large areas, they may not be practical in proximity to towns where land is expensive. A suitable topography and a suitable soil structure are also desired, in order to reduce construction costs. \n\nRegarding operation and maintenance, the tasks performed by the operational staff are very simple and do not require special skills. Additionally, there is no energy consumption for aeration, no need of heavy equipment maintenance and no frequent sludge removal, sludge treatment and disposal.\n\nPonds require very little maintenance, since there is no heavy electric or mechanical equipment that requires attention. The only routine maintenance needed is on the preliminary treatment (cleaning of screens and removal of sand), routine checking of pipes, weirs and other hydraulic structures, and removal of unwanted vegetation growth in embankments. \n\nSludge accumulates inside the ponds. It needs to be removed only in the interval of several years. This is an important advantage of the system. However, when removal is necessary, it is usually an expensive and labor-intensive operation. Removal is more frequent in anaerobic ponds (every few years), because of their smaller volume and lower capacity to store the sludge, compared with facultative ponds. In facultative ponds, sludge removal may be necessary only in intervals around 15 to 25 years. In maturation ponds, sludge accumulation is very low.\n\nSludge removal, also called desludging, may be done in two basic ways: (i) interrupting the operation of the pond for desludging or (ii) keeping the pond in operation while desludging. In the first case, the influent wastewater to the pond to be desludged is closed. Afterwards, the pond is drained and the bottom sludge is left for open drying for several weeks. During this period, the wastewater to be treated needs to be diverted to other ponds in the system. After the sludge has dried, its removal may be done manually (very laborious in large ponds) or mechanically using tractors or mechanical scrapers. In the second alternative, when the pond is left in operation during desludging, the removed sludge will be wet and will require further drying. This is undertaken outside the pond. Sludge removal can be by suction and pumping using vacuum trucks (only for small ponds), dredging, pumping from a raft or involving other mechanical equipment. In either case, the amount of sludge to be removed is very high, considering its accumulation over a period of years. This process is very laborious, expensive and requires careful planning.\n\nIn the selection of a wastewater treatment process, besides the technical aspects that are relevant to each alternative, also cost factors play a very important role. The latter can be basically divided into (i) construction costs and (ii) operation and maintenance costs. Waste stabilization ponds are usually considered a cheap alternative in terms of construction costs. However, the final costs will depend essentially on the size of ponds, presence of maturation ponds in the process configuration, topography, soil conditions, groundwater level and land cost. \n\nBecause all these elements are site-specific, it is difficult to generalize overall construction costs. In most cases these will be lower compared with other wastewater treatment alternatives. Depending on the specific situation of the area, construction costs can increase and level up with other technologies. \n\nWaste stabilization ponds are one of the cheapest wastewater treatment processes in terms of operation and maintenance.\n\nThe following types of water and wastewater infrastructure may superficially resemble waste stabilization ponds, but are not the same:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16296241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16296241", "title": "Water resources management in Mexico", "text": "Water resources management in Mexico\n\nWater resources management is a significant challenge for Mexico. Furthermore, water management is imposing a heavy cost to the economy. The arid northwest and central regions contain 77% of Mexico's population and generate 87% of the gross domestic product (GDP). By contrast, the poorer southern regions have abundant water resources ;however, surface and groundwater are overexploited and polluted thus leading to an insufficient water availability to support economic development and environmental sustainability. The country has in place a system of water resources management that includes both central (federal) and decentralized (basin and local) institutions.\n\nMexico has a long and well-established tradition on water resources management (WRM) which started approximately in the 1930s when the country began investing heavily in water storage facilities and groundwater development to expand irrigation and supply water to the rapidly increasing population.\n\nThe 1934 Código Agrario, promulgated during the Cárdenas administration (1934–1940), granted the federal government powers to define the “public interest” to which water could be harnessed. By virtue of such legislation, between the 1930s and 1970s, the rural community and ejido sector were subject to direct federal control over water. Private landowners, on the other hand, enjoyed the benefits of federally subsidized irrigation infrastructure and guaranteed market prices. Over time, large landowners became highly capitalized, while small land owners, by the 1970s, were suffering from the effects of water monopolies.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Mexican government entered into a tripartite agreement with the World Bank and the United Nations Development Program to prepare the 1975 National Water Plan (NWP), which identified the need to enact a New Water Law (NWL) and a National Water Authority (ANA) as well as decentralize responsibilities and promote water user participation in operational and maintenance (O&M). The NWP spurred a significant institutional development and infrastructural achievements: (i) the federal government transfer responsibilities for water supply and sanitation to municipalities and states in 1983, (ii) the Mexican Institute of Water Technology was established in 1986, (iii) the National Commission on Water (CONAGUA) was established in 1988, and (iv) in 1989, the first Basin Council was created in Lerma Chapala, incorporating water users from multiple sectors.\n\nDuring the 1990s, there was a rapid groundwater development and aquifer pumping for combined agricultural, urban, and industrial demand. Also the federal government decentralized responsibility for large irrigation infrastructure to autonomous agencies (irrigation districts).\n\nIn 1992, Mexico adopted the Ley de Aguas Nacionales (LAN), which contained specific provisions for the role of the CONAGUA, the structure and functioning of river basin councils, public participation in water management, etc. In 1993 the Cutzamala system, one of the largest pumping schemes in the world, was completed. The Cutzamala system pumps of water into the Mexico City metropolitan area.\n\nIn 1997 the first technical groundwater committee was created to manage an overexploited aquifer in the state of Guanajuato.\n\nWith the 2004 Revision of the National Water Law, the thirteen decentralized CNA regions would become basin organizations serving as the technical arm of more broad-based basin councils that incorporate civil society interests including the private sector and citizens’ groups.\n\nMexico's internal renewable water resources per capita is , which is below the average in the Central American and the Caribbean region, .\n\nA volume of of water per year flows through Mexico's rivers, including imports from other countries and excluding exports. A total of 65% of this surface runoff occurs in seven rivers: Grijalva, Usumacinta, Papaloapan, Coatzacoalcos, Balsas, Panuco, Santiago and Tonala, whose total watershed area represents 22% of the country's total land area. The Balsas and Santiago rivers empty on the Pacific Ocean, while the other five empty into the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nThe historical mean annual precipitation (1941–2004) is , with 77% of all precipitation accruing between June and October.\nA little over 70% of rainwater in Mexico is lost through evapotranspiration and returns to the atmosphere. The rest runs off rivers and streams or infiltrates into the subsoil and recharges groundwater.\n\nMexico shares three watersheds (Colorado, Bravo and Tijuana) with the United States, four with Guatemala (Grijalva, Usumacintam Suchiate, Coatan, and Candelaria) and one with Belize and Guatemala (Rio Hondo). The waters are shared with the U.S. in accordance with the stipulations included in the Treaty on the Utilization of the Waters of the Colorado, Tijuana and Rio Grande Rivers, signed in 1944.\n\nGroundwater accounts for 64% of the volume for public water supply, 33% of all water used for agriculture and livestock, and 24% of water utilized by self-supplied industry. There are 653 groundwater aquifers in Mexico. CONAGUA estimates the total amount of groundwater recharge to be around per year, 36.4% of which, (around per year) are actually used. This average rate does not fully represent the situation of the arid region, where a negative balance is threatening the sustainable use of groundwater resources.\n\nGroundwater is a key water supplier for several users in the arid region or in some cities where groundwater is most of the time the sole water resource available. About 71% of the groundwater is used for agriculture, 20% for water urban supply and 3% for domestic and animal use.\n\nMexico counts with 4,000 dams and other hydraulic infrastructure with a storage capacity of , which account for 44% of the annual flow. In the arid regions, dams are mostly used for irrigation. In the humid areas, dams are mostly used for electricity generation. Dams are also considered a means for flood protection in Mexico. Approximately 63 dams have a storage capacity of over , and account for 95% of Mexico's storage capacity. The largest reservoirs are La Angostura (20,217 km), Nezahualcóyotl (14,0298 km), Chicoasén (11,883 km), and Infiernillo (11,860 km).\n\nMexico has approximately 70 lakes with a storage capacity of . The largest lake, the Chapala Lake, has a storage capacity of .\n\"Source\": CONAGUA\n\nAccording to the Water Quality Index, 96% of Mexico's surface water bodies have different levels of pollution. OECD estimates the economic cost of water pollution in Mexico at US$6 billion per year. The problem is most serious in the Valle de Mexico region where 100% of the water bodies have different levels of contamination, 18% of which are highly polluted. Low water quality is due to untreated discharge of industrial effluents and municipal wastewater into rivers and lakes, solid waste deposits along river banks, uncontrolled seepage from unsanitary landfills, and non-point pollution mainly from agricultural production.\n\nCONAGUA has also detected infiltration of untreated municipal wastewater in 8 aquifers, iron and manganese in 2, arsenic in 1 aquifer of the Lagunera region. In overexploited aquifers, contamination tends to worsen over time as the groundwater reservoir is depleted. This is the case of the Lagunera region, where concentration of 0.09 to 0.59 mg/L of arsenic found in the drinking water, are above of the permissible level of 0.05 mg/L. \nIn addition, information regarding water quality, available by the Public Water Rights and Registry, is scarce and often unreliable.\n\nIn 1998, domestic consumption accounted for 17% of surface water withdrawals in Mexico. During the past decade, the Mexican water supply and sanitation sector made major strides in service coverage. In urban areas almost 100% of the population is estimated to have access to improved water supply and 91% to adequate sanitation. In rural areas, the respective shares are 87% for water and 41% for sanitation. Coverage levels are particularly low in the southern regions. (See also Water supply and sanitation in Mexico)\n\nIn 1998, agriculture accounted for 78% of surface water withdrawals in Mexico. A total of 62,000 km² (15.3 million acre) count with irrigation infrastructure (22.9% of the total cultivated area), 55,000 km² (13.6 million acres) of which are actually irrigated. In 1997, 58,000 km² (14.3 million acres) use surface irrigation, 3,000 km² use sprinkler irrigation and 1,000 km² localized irrigation. Ineffective irrigation has generated salinization and drainage problems in of a total irrigated area of . (See also Irrigation in Mexico)\n\nThe electricity sector in Mexico relies heavily on thermal sources (74% of total installed capacity), followed by hydropower generation (22%). The largest hydro plant in Mexico is the 2,300 MW Manuel Moreno Torres in Chicoasén, Chiapas. This is the world’s fourth most productive hydroelectric plant. (See also Electricity sector in Mexico)\n\nThere are approximately 70 lakes in Mexico, covering a total area of . Some of these lakes, especially in the Eastern side, have a volcanic origin and count with numerous endemic species. Lake Chapala, the largest Mexican lake, is considered a hydrological priority region for biodiversity conservation due to its 39 local species, 19 of which are endemic. The Lake Catemaco, located in Veracruz, has 12 native species 9 of which are endemic.\n\nWetlands in Mexico are dynamic, complex and productive ecosystems. Six major wetland are registered in the RAMSAR Convention on Wetlands: Lagartos River (Yucatan Peninsula), Cuatrocienagas (Coahuila), La Encrucijada (Chiapas), Marsh Nayarit and Sinaloa, Centla Swamp (Tabasco), and the Colorado River (Baja California). \nCenotes, sinkholes on the Yucatan peninsula that are filled with groundwater, host a number of unique species from bacteria, algae and protozoa (i.e. copepoda, cladocera and rotifera) to vertebrates (i.e.lepisosteus). Cenotes are the main water source for many ancient and contemporary Maya people, as there are no rivers and very few lakes on the peninsula.\n\nThe main law governing water resources management in Mexico is the National Water Law of 1992 (Ley de Aguas Nacionales -LAN), revised on April 29, 2004.\n\nAccording to the LAN key functions in the sector are the responsibility of the federal government, through the National Water Commission (CNA or CONAGUA). The LAN made possible to implement a regulatory framework that seeks to encourage greater efficiency and a more accurate perception of the social, economic, and environmental value of water resources. Therefore, waters users operate within a framework of rights and obligations that are clearly defined in three basic instruments:\nThe 2004 amended National Water Law (NWL) aims to restructure CONAGUA key functions through the transfer of responsibilities from the central level to subnational entities: the basin agencies (Organismos de Cuenca – BA) and Basin Councils (Consejos de Cuenca – BC). BA and BCs are expected to play an increasing role in the sector limiting CONAGUA’s role to the administration of the NWL, the conduct of national water policy, and planning, supervision, support and regulatory activities.\n\nThe NWL also introduced a Water Financing System (Sistema Finaciero del Agua – SFA). CONAGUA will create together with the Ministry of Finance appropriate instruments to determine funding sources, spending guidelines, cost recovery, settling of accounts and management indicators.\n\nThree groups of institutions have been assigned with the main responsibilities for WRM: (i) the National Water Commission (Comisión Nacional del Agua –CONAGUA), at the federal level; (ii) Water Commissions (Comisiones Estatales del Agua – CEAs), at the State level; and (iii) basin authorities and basin councils.\n\nCONAGUA is the highest institution for water resource management in Mexico, including water policy, water rights, planning, irrigation and drainage development, water supply and sanitation, and emergency and disaster management (with an emphasis on flooding). CONAGUA’s mission is to manage and preserve national water resources, with the participation of the society, to reach a sustainable use of the resource.\n\nCONAGUA is formally under the authority of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaria del Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales – SEMARNAT) but it enjoys considerable de facto autonomy. It employs 17,000 professionals, has 13 regional offices and 32 state offices and had an annual budget of US$1.2 billion in 2005. It also directly manages certain key hydraulic facilities such as the Cutzamala Pipeline that supplies a large share of the water used in the Metropolitan Area of Mexico City. CONAGUA also owns and operates most dams in Mexico and operates the country’s water monitoring network.\n\nThe CEAs are autonomous entities that usually are under the authority of the State Ministry of Public Works. Their attributions are different among states and can include water resources management, irrigation and the provision of water supply and sanitation services.\n\nThe recently created Basin Authorities (BAs) will develop from the 13 existing Regional Offices of CONAGUA and are expected to be responsible for formulating regional policy, designing programs to implement such policies, conducting studies to estimate the value of the financial resources generated within their boundaries (water user fees and service fees), recommending specific rates for water user fees and collecting them. Basin Councils (BCs) are expected to guide, together with CONAGUA, BAs work. There are a total of 25 BCs that have been established with the same basin boundaries as the BAs.\n\nThe National Water Plan 2007-2012, linked to the National Development Plan, aims at ensuring water quality and quantity, recognizing the strategic value of water and promoting sustainable water use and water resources conservation. The Plan has eight objectives, namely: (i) increasing agricultural productivity, (ii) increasing access and quality of water supply and sanitation services, (iii) promoting integrated water resources management at the river basin level, (iv) improving technical, administrative and financial development of the water sector, (v) increase participation of water users and society in general in the management of water resources, (vi) reduce water risks, (vii) evaluate climate change impacts on water resources, and (viii) promote compliance with the National Water Law, especially on administrative matters.\n\nEach objective has a strategy and a set of goals associated. The NWP has a total budget of 227,130 million pesos (about US$21.9 billion), which does not include operational and maintenance costs of hydraulic infrastructure.\n\nMexico lacks a coherent national policy framework for setting and linking water and sanitation tariffs, subsidies and cost-recovery goals. The absence of overarching policies produces a wide variation in the degree of cost recovery and subsidies across regions. Tariffs are set below costs – the most common form of user subsidy in water supply and sanitation.\n\nWater service providers charge industrial and commercial user tariffs that are close to full recovery cost, and cross subsidize residential users. The average tariff across users, US$0.32 per cubic meter ($0.24/cu yd), is half the Latin American and the Caribbean average, US$0.65/m³ ($0.50/cu yd).\n\nThe level of collection efficiency in Mexico has been estimated at 72%, far below the levels achieved in developed countries (OECD 95%). Water tariff collections in water supply and sanitation have been estimated at US$1.54 billion in 2002. Billed revenues were estimated at between US$2.14 billion and US$2.9 billion.\n\nApproximately 31% of water customers are not metered and are charged a flat rate, independent of consumption, differentiated by neighborhood.\n\nMexico is prone to several weather events including hurricanes on both Pacific and Caribbean coasts. Hurricanes contribute to recharge surface and groundwater reservoirs with increases water supply for cities, irrigation and electricity generation. Hurricanes pose also a threat to service delivery, infrastructure and ultimately to ecosystems and human life. This situation is aggravated by deforestation upstream as well as human settlements located in flood prone areas.\n\nWith more than 85% of the Mexican land area defined as arid or semi-arid and a highly variable interannual rainfall Mexico is also prone to droughts, especially in the northern areas.\nThe most severe droughts in Mexico in recent decades coincide with the variations in Pacific sea-surface temperatures associated with El Niño. The economic and social and environmental impacts of droughts in Mexico are notable. In 1996, four years of below normal rainfall produced farms losses estimated at US$1 billion and interstate political between Sonora and Sinaloa.\n\nIn parts of Mexico climate change is projected to produce a decrease in water flow. Furthermore, an increase on water demand is expected due to increasing temperature and extreme weather conditions such as droughts and floods due to El Niño Southern Oscillation and La Niña are expected to become more frequent.\n\nThe IPCC considers various scenarios with increases in temperatures ranging between 1 and 6 degrees Celsius. By 2050, the Mexican Institute of Water Technology expects a 7-12% decrease in precipitation in the southern basins, 3% in the Mexican Gulf basin, and 11% in the central basin. Precipitation is estimated to continue to decrease over the next 50 years. An increase in category 5 hurricanes is also expected.\n\nDuring some El Niño/La Niña years, winter precipitation may be so great that stream flow and water levels in dams may exceed those observed during summer. In contrast, summer droughts during these events can lead to serious deficits in reservoir levels and in rain-fed maize production. In Mexico during 1997, the estimated costs of climate anomalies associated with El Niño were 900 million US dollars, particularly in agricultural activities, when 20,000 km² (5 million acres) were affected by a severe drought.\n\nIn 2007, SEMARNAT together with the Instituto Mexicano de Tecnología del Agua published a study “Climate Change Effects on Water Resources in Mexico.” The main findings are summarized below.\n\nQualitative vulnerability to climate change by hydrologic-administrative region\n\n\"Source\": SERMANAT (2007)\n\nThe World Bank is currently contributing with US$28.5 million, to an Adaptation to Climate Change Project in the Gulf of Mexico (). This project aims at formulating and implementing adaptation policy actions and specific measures in representative systems of Gulf of Mexico wetlands in order to protect their environmental functions and their rich biodiversity from climate change related impacts, and improving the knowledge base to ascertain with a higher level of certainty the anticipated impacts from climate change on the country’s water resources, with a primary focus on coastal wetlands and associated inland basins.\nThe\nhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:About\nIn November 2007, the Inter-American Development Bank approved a US$200,000 project to support a program for flood emergency in Tabasco. In September 2007 it approved a US$200,000 project to support a program to relief damages caused by Hurricane Dean.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27078069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27078069", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Kenya", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Kenya\n\nWater supply and sanitation in Kenya is characterised by low levels of access to water and sanitation, in particular in urban slums and in rural areas, as well as poor service quality in the form of intermittent water supply. Seasonal and regional water scarcity exacerbates the difficulty to improve water supply.\n\nThe Kenyan water sector underwent far-reaching reforms through the Water Act No. 8 of 2002. Previously service provision had been the responsibility of a single National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation as well as of a few local utilities established since 1996. After the passage of the act service provision was gradually decentralised to 91 local Water Service Providers (WSPs). These were linked to 8 regional Water Services Boards (WSBs) in charge of asset management through Service Provision Agreements (SPAs) with the WSPs. The Act also created a national regulatory board that carries out performance benchmarking and is in charge of approving SPAs and tariff adjustments. With the Water Bill, 2014, the functions of the 8 WSBs were transferred to 47 Water Works Development Boards in each county of Kenya. \n\nThe Ministry of Water and Irrigation remains in charge of policies for water supply, while the Ministry of Public Health and Sanitation is in charge of policies for sanitation.\n\nAlthough urban water tariffs are high by regional standards (60 KSh or US$0.60 per m3 on average in 2014), these tariffs only allow the recovery of operating costs, but not the recovery of capital costs. Full cost recovery is not achieved due to various reasons, including a high level of non-revenue water (average of 42%). Based on the unit cost of production, the nationwide losses due to non-revenue water in 2014 were estimated at 5.2 billion KSh, equivalent to US$52 million. Another reason is the need to tap distant water sources at a high cost in some locations. For example, Mombasa is supplied from a source located 220 km from the city. Although 16% of Kenyans in urban areas have access to sewerage, there is no sewerage levy in Kenya, making this expensive service essentially free of charge.\n\nCollecting reliable data on the Kenyan water and sanitation sector is difficult because reporting is often incomplete and different definitions are being used. Two sources of nationwide representative information are censuses carried out every ten years, with the next one scheduled for 2019, and Demographic and Health Surveys carried out every five years by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. The data thus collected are analysed by the Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation of WHO and UNICEF to assess progress towards achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. These data only assess the availability of water and sanitation infrastructure. They do not assess whether water is safe to drink, sufficient in quantity, continuously available or affordable. Another important source of information is the annual \"impact report\" published by the water regulatory agency WASREB since 2008. Through this report much more detailed information is publicly available today on many water service providers than in the past and than in many other countries. However, data in the report refer only to the population served by Water Service Providers, which is not the entire population of Kenya, omitting particularly parts of rural areas.\n\nEstimates from the Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation (JMP) show that 58% of Kenyans (83% in urban areas and 50% in rural areas) had access to at least basic drinking water sources in 2015. 22% of Kenyans (45% in urban areas and 14% in rural areas) are reported as having access to piped water through a house or yard connection. According to the JMP estimates, access to improved water sources in urban areas decreased from 92% in 1990 to 82% in 2015. In rural areas, however, access increased from 33% to 57% during the same period.\n\nThe total number of people lacking access to \"at least basic\" water in 2015 was 19 million people. \n\nAccording to the 2016-17 WASREB report 55% of the total population had \"access to water\". Previously, according to the definition called \"weighted access\" (see above), the 2009 Impact Report had estimated that in 2006–2007 only 37% of Kenyans had access to sufficient and safe drinking water close to their homes at an affordable price. Significant regional differences in access were reported: the highest level was registered in the area served by Tetu Aberdare Water and Sanitation Company (72%) whereas the lowest was recorded in Muthambi in Meru South District (4%). In the capital Nairobi access for the same period was reported at 35%, as opposed to a less realistic figure of 46% reported for 2005–2006.\n\nThe poor, in particular women and girls, spend a significant amount of time fetching water in both rural and urban areas. For example, the 2007 Citizen Report Card survey showed that users of water kiosks in cities fetch water 4–6 times per day. In Kisumu, this meant that a poor household spent 112 minutes per day to fetch water at normal times, and as much as 200 minutes per day during times of scarcity.\n\nThe total number of people lacking access to at least basic sanitation in 2015 was 32 million people.\n\nCountrywide estimates for 2015 by the JMP indicate that 30% (43% of urban and 28% of rural) Kenyans had access to at least basic sanitation, including sewerage. In urban areas an additional 27% of the population used shared latrines. In rural areas, open defecation was estimated to be still practised by 12% of the population. The 2015 report by the Water and Sanitation Regulatory Board did not include any figures on access to sanitation in the broad sense, but only an estimate of access to sewerage in urban areas, which was estimated at 16%.\n\nIn 2006–2007 it had been reported that half of the Kenyan population within the service area of 55 WSPs had access to improved sanitation facilities (this definition includes flush, pour flush toilets connected to a piped system, septic tanks, VIP latrines and pit latrines). In Nairobi, sanitation coverage was about 23% in 2006–2007. The Kenyan Integrated Household Budget Survey of 2006 reported a much higher sanitation coverage 84%, including shared latrines and shallow pit latrines.\n\nThe quality of service of WSPs is closely monitored by the Water Services Regulatory Board (WASREB) with the aim of promoting comparative competition and performance improvements. Some of the most important indicators of service quality are water quality, continuity of water supply and wastewater treatment.\n\nWater quality. In 2015 WASREB reported that 23 utilities provided good quality water (defined as more than 95% compliance with standards), 15 acceptable quality and for 53 utilities water quality was not acceptable (defined as less than 90% compliance). The two parameters measured were residual chlorine (40% weight) and compliance with bacteriological standards (60% weight). If the number of samples taken was lower than foreseen in the standard, the compliance was rated lower. The highest compliance was achieved in Kericho and Kisumu with 100% each. A citizens' report carried out in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu in 2007 provided information about customers' perception of water quality: around 70% of households using water from connections to the mains said they found the taste and smell of water acceptable, and that the water was clear. Even so, the vast majority of respondents treat water prior to consumption, which shows continuing uncertainty about its quality.\n\nContinuity of supply. The 2015 Impact Report reports an average supply of 18 hours per day, up from 14 hours in 2006-07. Only in nine mostly small WSPs water is provided continuously 24 hours per day. In Nairobi water is provided on average for 18 hours a day and in Mombasa for 6 hours. Nonetheless, instances of water scarcity (defined as more than five days without or with insufficient water supply) still occur in Kenya. In 2006 in Kisumu over 40% of households (both poor and non-poor) connected to water mains reported scarcity. The greatest difference between the poor and non-poor was recorded in Nairobi, where poor households were more than twice as likely to say they experienced scarcity. A higher percentage of kiosk users reported scarcity than households with mains connections, suggesting that in times of scarcity kiosks are less likely to receive water than domestic connections.\n\nWastewater treatment. According to an assessment report carried out in 2009, there are 43 sewerage systems in Kenya and waste water treatment plants in 15 towns (total population served: 900,000 inhabitants). The operation capacity of these wastewater treatment plants is estimated at around 16% of design capacity. The main reasons for this inefficiency are inadequate operation and maintenance and low connection rate to sewers. In Kenya, the estimated connection rate is 19% (12% according to another report).\n\nOf the wastewater that enters the sewer network, only about 60% reaches the treatment plants. The most common solution used for wastewater treatment in Kenya are waste stabilisation ponds. One of them is the Dandora Waste Stabilisation Pond System which treats the industrial and domestic sewage from the city of Nairobi and is the largest pond system in Africa. Mixing industrial effluent and domestic sewage in mixed sewer system, however, often causes poor performance in Kenyan pond treatment systems.\n\nThe Citizen Report Card moreover indicates that septic tanks are often used for the disposal of wastewater from flush toilets in Mombasa. Pit latrine users from Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa indicated that some wastewater empties into storm sewers, soak-aways and cess pits designed for kitchen waste, thus causing environmental pollution. In 2001 a pollution incident occurred in the town of Embu. Raw sewage was discharged from sewage treatment works into a nearby river and caused the death of 28 people who used the water downstream for domestic purposes.\n\nThe renewable freshwater resources of Kenya are estimated at 20.2 km per year, which corresponds to 647 m per capita and year. The total yearly water withdrawal is estimated to be over 2.7 km, or less than 14% of resources. However, water resources availability varies significantly in time and between regions. Most parts of the country have two rainy seasons. The long rains are typically from March to May while short rains are typically from October to November.\n\nIn addition, Kenya experiences every three to four years droughts and floods, which affect a large number of the population. The latest severe drought was from 2007 to the end of 2009, which had impacts on all sectors of the economy. The average annual rainfall is 630 mm, but it varies between less than 200 mm in northern Kenya to over 1,800 mm on the slopes of Mount Kenya.\n\nKenya is divided into five drainage basins. The Lake Victoria Basin Drainage area system in Western Kenya is part of the Nile River Basin. The closed Rift Valley Inland Drainage system includes a number of rivers and lakes, including large freshwater lakes such as Lake Turkana, Lake Baringo and Lake Naivasha, rivers such as the Kerio River, as well as a number of salt lakes.\n\nThe Athi Drainage system, the Tana Drainage system and the Ewaso Ng'iro North Drainage system all flow towards the Indian Ocean. The water distribution in the basins is highly uneven with the highest water availability in the Lake Victoria Basin (more than 50%) and the lowest in the Athi Drainage system. Only the Tana and Lake Victoria Basins, have surplus water resources while the three other basins face deficits.\n\nThe capital city Nairobi receives its water resources from two drainage systems: The oldest sources, the Kikuyu Springs (used since 1906) and the Ruiru Dam (since 1938) are located in the Athi River Basin. The Sasumua Dam, the Ndakaini-Thika Dam (since 1996) and Chania-B Dam supply Nairobi through interbasin transfer from the Tana River drainage area. About 20% of the supply is from ground water resources which corresponds to around 60,000 to 70,000 m per day. Mombasa, Kenya's second largest city, serves its water demand through the Marere Water Works in the south-west, the Baricho Intake at the lower Athi River and from Mzima Springs, upper Athi River, through a 220 km pipeline to the city.\n\nThe history of the water and sanitation sector in Kenya is characterised by institutional fragmentation that led to numerous inefficiencies and by subsequent attempts at reform.\n\nThe history of piped water supply in Kenya can be traced back to the period of the East African Protectorate. At that time water supply was focused on the needs of colonial settlements. The administration of water supply was carried out by the Hydraulic Branch of the Public Works Department, which started operating in the coastal city of Mombasa. The construction of the Uganda Railway in 1896 provided an important impetus for the development of water pipelines in the interior of the country along the railway line.\n\nBetween 1920 and independence in 1963 the first attempts were made at regulating water supply in the colony and protectorate of Kenya, while responsibility was shared by many institutions. In the 1950s and early 60s, responsibility for the administration of water supply was split between three institutions: the Ministry of Works operating in urban centres with centralised water service provision; Local Authorities that were deemed capable of managing water supply; and the Water Development Department, which was responsible for developing new water supplies for urban and rural centres. Bulk water to Mombasa was provided by the Mombasa Pipeline Work, while day-to-day operations of water pipelines were carried out by the water department. There was no single framework for the administration and management of water. In 1952 the \"Water Act Cap 372\" was enacted, which remained the legal basis for the water sector until 2002.\nIn the sanitation subsector there was no functioning institutional framework either. Officially, the 1921 Public Health Ordinance gave the Ministry of Health the role of administering sanitation, but it was rarely enforced. The local population, moreover, was reluctant to adopt sanitary measures imposed by the colonial government. Between 1929 and 1939 intense public health education campaigns were carried out which led to the diffusion of pit latrines.\n\nBy 1954 different types of sanitation were in use in different parts of Kenya: pit latrines were in use in most native reserves, bucket type latrines prevailed in towns while waterborne sanitation was used in the European quarters of major towns. During the Mau Mau uprising Africans were concentrated in detention camps and local markets were kept closed out of fear of rebellion. This led to the neglect of adequate sanitation and in the proliferation of communal latrines.\n\nAs Kenya gained independence in 1963, attempts at simplifying the administration of water supply resulted in the transferral of all organisations responsible for water to the Ministry of Agriculture in 1964. The distribution of responsibilities and authority was, however, unclear and led to bottlenecks and inefficiencies. In 1965 the government led by Jomo Kenyatta stated in the Sessional Paper No. 10 on African Socialism and its Application to Planning in Kenya that government policy had to be directed towards the eradication of poverty, illiteracy and disease.\n\nThis initiated a period of active involvement in water policy by the government, based on the principle that water is a social good to be either provided free of charge or subsidised. As a result, water tariffs between 1970 and 1981 were heavily subsidised and in contradiction with the principle of operating cost recovery. Throughout the 1960s, the Environmental Sanitation Programme supported by WHO-UNICEF was carried out in Kenya with the aims of developing water supplies for small rural communities, improving waste disposal methods and providing sanitary education for the rural population.\n\nThe rural water supply schemes set up as part of the programme were operated by County Councils (under the Ministry of Local Government). In 1972 about 560 rural water supply schemes were running in Kenya and provided water to a population of about 664,000, UNICEF reported. Local communities also started developing their own water supplies and set up water committees: they received training about design systems, hydraulic calculations, costs and submission methods. A follow-up study by UNICEF carried out in 1974 showed the many problems that affected these projects.\n\nIn 1970 the Government of Kenya signed a credit agreement with Sweden to finance Rural Water Supply Development. The WHO was to provide a study of the water situation in the country. The study, completed in 1973, showed that in Kenya there was a major lack in senior and technical staff; while donors could provide most development funds, current expenditure could not be covered by local funds and the Government lacked a long term plan of water supply development. In response, a fully fledged Ministry of Water Resources Management and Development was created in 1974. The ministry took over government operated water schemes as well as those operated by county councils. In the same year the National Water Master Plan Initiative was launched. Its primary aim was to develop new water supply schemes and secure access to potable water within reasonable distance to all Kenyans. The initiative bore the slogan, “Water for all by the year 2000.”\n\nIn the 1980s, the government began experiencing budget constraints which put a strain on the ambitious projects of providing universal access to safe water and expanding the water and sewerage systems. Priority was given to the rehabilitation of existing schemes and the construction of large-scale water projects such as the Baricho and Kilimanjaro water schemes. In 1980 a National Sanitation Council was established to sensitise the population about the health benefits of sanitation and to advise and guide local authorities on the matter. The council slowly faded without accomplishing its mandate.\n\nIn 1983 a Water Use Study carried out by SIDA confirmed that the situation was unsustainable and suggested decentralisation and removing operation and maintenance responsibilities from the Ministry. To improve performance and efficiency and to reduce the financial burden of the water sector, in June 1988 the National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC) was established. Its role was to operate water supply systems under state control on a commercial basis.\n\nBut the centralised approach failed to achieve improvements. Thus the idea of creating local-government owned commercial utilities emerged. A Second National Water Master Plan was formulated in 1992, and a new policy approach emphasising decentralisation and a demand-driven approach was discussed at the national level. The city of Eldoret went ahead in 1994 and set up a water and sewer department with finances that were separate from the municipal budget. The utility's board includes representatives of NGOs, women's organisations, the chamber of commerce and industry and the Kenya Consumer Organization. The commercialisation of the utility in Eldoret as well as in Nyeri and Kericho was supported by the German development co-operation.\n\nThe approach was formalised by the Ministry of Local Government, through the Companies Act Cap. 486 of 1996 which allowed the establishment of publicly owned, commercially run water and sanitation companies. As of 2002, this approach had led to significant improvements in terms of reduced of non-revenue water, improved bill collection and fewer complaints in Nyeri and Eldoret. However, other local water companies in Kitale and Nakuru had to be taken over again by the national government due to financial problems.\n\nIn 1999, the first National Policy of Water Resources Management and Development was published. The policy stated that the government would \"hand over\" urban water systems to autonomous departments within local authorities, and rural water supply to communities. Another provision of this document was placing water and sanitation services under single utilities. While developing the National Water Policy, the Government also established a National Task Force to review the Water Act, Cap 372, and draft amendments that would result in a complete overhaul of the sector.\n\nThe current legal framework for the Kenyan water and sanitation sector is based on the \"Water Act No. 8 of 2002\" which became effective in March 2003. The 2002 Water Act introduced far-reaching reforms based on the following principles:\nThe implementation of these principles triggered a wide-ranging restructuring of the sector and led to the creation of new institutions. The Water Sector Reform Secretariat (WSRS) was formed as a transitional unit in the Ministry of Water and Irrigation to oversee the formation of the new water sector institutions. In 2004, the Water Services Trust Fund (WSTF) was established to provide financial assistance towards capital investment costs in areas lacking adequate services (usually inhabited by the poor). A Transfer Plan was devised in 2005 (through Legal Notice No. 101 of the 12 August 2005) to direct the transfer of staff and assets from the central government to the newly founded Water Services Boards and Water Service Providers (for detailed role descriptions see the next paragraph).\n\nTo guide the implementation of the Water Act, a draft \"National Water Services Strategy\" (NWSS) for the years 2007–2015 was formulated in June 2007. Its mission is to \"realise the goals of the MDG declaration and the Vision 2030 of the Kenyan Government concerning access to safe and affordable water and basic sanitation by responsive institutions within a regime of well-defined standards and regulation.\" NWSS is based on the identification of sustainable access to safe water and basic sanitation as a human right and an economic good. Among the core commitments are: cost recovery by water service providers to ensure sustainable water and sanitation for all and the formalisation of service provision. In addition, MWI also elaborated pro-poor implementation plans.\n\nIn 2010 Kenya adopted a new constitution that enshrines the human right to water and sanitation in Article 43(1). Specifically, it states that every person has the right \"to accessible and adequate housing and to reasonable standards of sanitation\", as well as the right \"to clean and safe water in adequate quantities\".\n\nA new water bill was passed in 2015. The bill transforms the 8 Water Service Boards (Asset Holding Companies) into 47 Water Works Development Boards in each county of Kenya. This in line with the decentralisation prescribed in the 2010 Constitution of Kenya. Also, the National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation became the National Water Storage Authority, the Water Services Regulatory Board became the Water Services Regulatory Commission and the Water Services Trust Fund became the Water Sector Trust Authority. The Bill is meant as an improved version of the Water Act of 2002, rather than another fundamental reform of the sector. The bill - under discussion since 2012 - was finally passed by Parliament as The Water Bill, 2014 (Bill No. 7 of 2014) on July 7th, 2015.\n\nThe Ministry of Water and Irrigation (MWI) is the key institution responsible for the water sector in Kenya. The Ministry is divided into five departments: Administration and Support Services, Water Services, Water Resources Management, Irrigation, Drainage and Water Storage, and Land Reclamation. Water supply is overseen by the Department for Water Services, whose functions include: formulation of policy and strategies for water and sewerage services, sector coordination and monitoring of other water services institutions. The Ministry of Water and Irrigation is also in charge of overall sector investments, planning and resource mobilisation.\n\nSanitation policy is in the hands of the Ministry of Public Health and Sanitation (MoPHS). To harmonise the institutional framework for sanitation MWI and the MoPHS have developed a common \"Water Supply and Sanitation Concept\" with clearly defined sanitation targets. As of early 2011, the Minister of Water and Irrigation is Charity Ngilu, chairperson of the National Party of Kenya, which supports Prime Minister Raila Odinga. The Minister of Health and Sanitation is Beth Mugo of the Party of National Unity of President Mwai Kibaki.\n\nOther Ministries also play a role in the water and sanitation sector. The Ministry of Education cooperates with MWI and MoPHS in the area of school sanitation by participating in Water and Sanitation Programme Committees. The Agricultural Sector Coordination Unit deliberates on all issues related to agriculture, including irrigation which is overseen by MWI. The MWI also co-operates with the Ministries of Forestry, of the Environment and of Special Programmes to further the rehabilitation and maintenance of water towers.\n\nEconomic regulation. The regulation and monitoring of urban and rural water service provision is carried out by the Water Services Regulatory Board (WASREB). WASREB is a non-commercial state corporation established in March 2003 on the basis of the \"2002 Water Act\". Its functions comprise: issuing of licenses to water services boards and approval of Service Provision Agreements, developing tariff guidelines and carrying out tariff negotiations, setting standards and developing guidelines for service provision, publishing the results of sector monitoring in the form of comparative reports (such as the Impact Report).\n\nEnvironmental regulation in Kenya is carried out by the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA). NEMA was established under the \"Environmental Management and Coordination Act\" No. 8 of 1999 and became operational in July 2002. Its role is to promote the integration of environmental considerations into government policies, plans, programmes and projects. As regards the water sector in particular, NEMA is in charge of formulating water quality regulations (the current version was elaborated in 2006).\n\nAs a result of sector reforms, responsibility for water and sanitation service provision has been devolved to eight regional Water Services Boards (WSBs): Athi (which serves the capital Nairobi), Coast, Tana, Lake Victoria North, Lake Victoria South, Northern, Rift Valley Water Services Board, and since 2008, Tanathi Water Services Board. Water Services Boards are responsible for asset management, that is, for the development and rehabilitation of water and sewerage facilities, for investment planning and implementation.\n\nWhen the WSBs were established, they were criticised as \"an unnecessary layer of bureaucracy\" that lead to a \"conflation of roles\" because they are \"both regulators (alongside the WSRB) and market actors\" as well as \"monoliths... that are far away from the point of service\". WSBs operate under licenses, but the licensing regime has been criticised as \"bureaucratic, cumbersome and confusing.\"\n\nResponsibility for water and sanitation service provision is in the hands of Water Services Boards. However, they are not required to provide services directly – they can delegate them to commercially oriented public enterprises, the so-called Water Service Providers (WSPs). Service provision is regulated by service provision agreements (SPAs) to ensure compliance with the standards on quality, service levels and performance established by WASREB. There are two categories of WSPs:\n\n\nInformal small service providers (SSPs) provide water in both rural and urban low-income settlements. Some of them sell water from tanker trucks or through jerry cans, often at prices that are five to ten times that of piped water supply. Others are self-help groups, often run by women, who provide piped water supply. The Water Services Trust Fund is making efforts to formalise service provision in low-income settlements. It has developed two national concepts for service provision for the poor. The first one is the Community Project Cycle, which makes funds available for local communities that are willing to comply with minimum service standards. The second one, the \"Urban Poor Concept\" has been implemented in low-income urban areas since 2007 and has led to the construction of numerous water kiosks that meet sustainability standards.\n\nAn example of a partnership between a utility and self-help groups can be found in Nyalenda, a poor neighbourhood with about 60,000 inhabitants in Kisumu. The local utility sells water in bulk to self-help groups that in turn manage networks and water kiosks inside their neighbourhoods.\nPrivate sector participation. The private sector plays a limited, but not negligible role in operating water supply systems in Kenya. Since 1975 Runda Water Limited provides piped water to the Executive Residential Housing Estate of Old Runda in Nairobi. In 2008, Runda signed a service provision agreement with the Athi WSB for the provision of water supply to the inhabitants of two residential blocks.\n\nIn 1995 a service contract was signed between the NWCPC and Gauff Consulting Engineers to support local authorities in the coastal town Malindi in billing and revenue collection. The contract was extended from seven and a half months to three and a half years. After its conclusion in 1999, a management contract was signed between Malindi Water Company and the private operator for a period of four years to support the company on technical and financial aspects.\n\nThe contract was regarded as successful and after it expired responsibility for service provision reverted to the public sector. In the small town of Tala in 1999, the Kangundo county council entered in a 30-year water provision contract with Romane Agencies Ltd. The contract foresees that 10% of revenues are to be paid to the town council. As of today, small improvements in service quality have been observed, but water coverage still remains a challenge.\n\nThe 2002 Water Act also provided for the establishment of an independent Water Appeals Board to settle water-related disputes and conflicts. The Water Appeals Board was established in 2005 in Nairobi but since then only three cases have been determined. Five additional appeals are pending because the chair has resigned in March 2009 and the terms of two other Board members have not been extended.\n\nKenya has an active civil society including a number of local NGOs active in water supply and sanitation. Many of them are members of the Kenya Water and Sanitation Civil Society Network (Kewasnet) founded in 2007. Among other activities, Kewasnet monitors service delivery, especially for the poor, and policy implementation on water sector reforms. It also \"provides information to Kenyans to enable them to be engaged and involved in the management and decision-making mechanisms of the Water and Sanitation Sector\". It also \"promotes a culture of consumer responsibility that pays for supplied services from utility companies, safeguards water services infrastructure and equipment against vandalism by criminals.\"\n\nOne of the larger Kenyan NGOs active in water and sanitation is \"Maji Na Ufanisi\" (Water and Development). It is involved in community development and infrastructure construction in urban slums and in small towns, advocates for improved sector governance and carries out research. It was created in 1998 to take over the Kenya operations of WaterAid UK when the latter decided to close down its operations in Kenya.\n\nPublic opinion. A 2008 survey of Kenyan public opinion reported that water supply is not considered as a high priority for government action. Only about 5% of respondents said that water supply was among the ten most important issues that the government should address, even though 60% think that the government is handling the issue badly. The survey also monitored instances of corruption in the sub-sector: 15% of urban and 11% of rural respondents reported that they had to pay a bribe, give a gift or do a favour to government officials to get water or sanitation services in the past year.\n\nAllegations of corruption. In September 2010, Water Minister Charity Ngilu admitted in Parliament that corruption was rampant in public water institutions, including all the eight water services boards and the National Water and Conservation Pipeline Corporation. The Kenya Water and Sanitation Civil Society Network (Kewasnet) called the statement the \"height of hypocrisy and double standards\", claiming that the Minister had only talked publicly about corruption in the sector after the Daily Nation newspaper had uncovered the corruption. Shortly before the chief executive officer of the Tanathi Water Services Board had been suspended after a WASREB audit of the board alleging corruption. The report had been published in March 2010 without action being taken for six months. According to Kewasnet, \"governance in the water sector is at its worst and lowest ebb.\"\n\nFeedback from consumers. In 2010 WASREB and local utilities helped to establish Water and Sanitation Action Groups (WAGs) consisting of citizen volunteers in Kisumu, Kakagemam, Nairobi and Mombasa to provide a forum for dialogue and for feedback from consumers. Consumer complained about inaccurate billing and metering, pipe bursts, illegal connections, poor workmanship on installations, vandalism, overcharging and corruption. Utility staff were initially suspicious and even hostile. The feedback was done in the form of focus group discussions, public hearings and scheduled meetings between citizen representatives and utility managers. While 63% of the complaints were resolved after 8 months, it remains to be seen if the system will become permanent or will be extended to other cities.\n\nThe economic performance of Kenyan Water Service Providers is closely monitored by WASREB and made available in the \"Impact Report\" to encourage competition and spread best practices. Important indicators of economic efficiency are: collection rates, the level of non-revenue water, metering ratios and labour productivity. Most Kenyan Water Service Providers do not meet the benchmarks in these dimensions.\n\nCollection rate. In 2013-14 most Kenyan WSPs recorded good revenue collection efficiencies with an average of 93%, up from 86% in 2006-07. The worst performing utility was Mawingo with 40% of the billed amount being collected. In some utilities, the collection rate exceeded 100% because WSPs were able to collect outstanding arrears.\n\nNon-revenue water. On average, 42% of the supplied water in Kenya was not billed in 2013–2014, e.g. due to leakage or water theft. Only one Water Services Providers (Nyeri) met the benchmark set by the Ministry of Water and Irrigation with levels of NRW of less than 20%. In Nairobi NRW levels were 39%, in Mombasa 48%. Based on the unit cost of production, the nationwide losses due to non-revenue water in 2014 were estimated at 5.2 billion KSh, equivalent to US$52 million.\n\nMetering ratio. The metering ratio of Kenyan water utilities was 89% in 2013-14, up from 82% in 2006–2007. There is, however, uncertainty about whether the installed water meters are in fact functioning. The metering ratio in Nairobi had been increased to 99% in 2006-07, but then declined again to 94% in 2013-14.\n\nLabour productivity. In 2013–2014 there were on average 7 employees per 1000 water connections in Kenya, a significant improvement over 11 in 2006-07. Seven Water Service Providers, all of them large, attained good levels of labour productivity, with 5 or less workers per 1000 connections, up from only one in 2006-07.\n\nIn 2014 the WSPs recovered, on average, 100% of operation and maintenance costs. However, all but four utilities fell short of the target to cover 150% of operation and maintenance costs in order to service debt and to develop their infrastructure. Water Services Boards should be cover their administrative costs through the Regulatory Levy they collect from WSPs in their service area. In fact, only Athi WSB was able to meet 115% of operational costs in 2006/2007. The other WSBs were still heavily reliant on government subsidies.\n\nThe average water tariff reported in 2014 was KSh 60 or US$0.60 per m3. This figure is not very indicative because of significant regional variations and because in Kenya a progressive block tariff system is in place for household connections. This means that for the first 10 m a minimum charge is paid that corresponds to a low, highly subsidised tariff, while for the following blocks (up to 20, 50, 100 and 300 as well as above 300 m) an increasingly higher tariff is being charged, with the tariff in the highest block being five times higher than in the lowest block. Where no meter is installed, a fixed monthly charge is applied. The rationale for this system is to promote water saving practices and to ensure that low-income households can afford to use an adequate amount of water. However, there are problems with this system, because households in low-income areas resell water or share a connection with other households and thus risk ending up paying a higher tariff.\n\nInformation about tariffs at water kiosks is contradictory. A 2007 report about three Kenyan cities says that the unit rate for water kiosks was 10 KSh/m in Nairobi, 15 KSh/m in Mombasa, and 55 KSh/m in Kisumu. However, the same report states earlier on that water kiosk users pay 100 KSh/m in all three cities, which is said to be two to five times more than what is paid by those who get their water delivered to their homes through the network.\n\nThere is no sewer tariff in Kenya, so that properties connected to the sewer network receive this service for free, although sewerage and wastewater treatment is at least as expensive as drinking water supply. In 2013 a study commissioned by the regulator recommended the introduction of a 5% sewerage levy as a surcharge on the water bill.\n\nBesides tariffs, Kenya has also introduced charges for the abstraction of groundwater and surface water.\n\nTariff setting is the responsibility of Water Services Boards and Water Service Providers according to operation and maintenance costs. Tariffs have to be approved by WASREB, which can also mandate a WSB to formulate a tariff adjustment. There are three types of tariff adjustments, as described in the \"Tariff Guidelines\": Regular Tariff Adjustments based on the WSPs' business plan; Extraordinary Tariff Adjustments when the cost structure undergoes significant changes; Automatic Tariff Adjustments every 12 months which might be part of a service provision agreement with a WSP.\n\nIn 2008 an Extraordinary Tariff Adjustment was granted to all WSPs as an interim measure to assist WSPs to meet their operation and maintenance costs. Tariffs for sewerage services are part of tariff adjustments and the aim is to reach full cost recovery also for sanitation. The ministry responsible for water is, however, aware that full cost recovery tariffs for sewerage for certain systems would make the service provision unaffordable for many connected households.\n\nAccording to the Annual Water Sector Review 2013-14, investments in urban water and sanitation amounted to Kenyan Shilling (Ksh) 12 billion in 2013-14 (US$ 120m) compared to an investment need of around Ksh 75 billion annually (US$ 750m).\nAccording to the Ministry of Water and Irrigation, its budget for drinking water supply and sanitation had been KSh 18.7 billion or US$242.8 million in Fiscal Year 2008–09, and thus had been higher than investments in 2013-14. In the preceding five years, the budget for the water sector had been increased by 245% from KSh 4.2 billion (US$54.5 million) in 2004–2005. 82% of funds were allocated for the water supply and sanitation sub-sector, while the rest was devoted to Water Resources Management, for Irrigation Drainage and Water Storage as well as Land Reclamation.\n\nAccording to the regulator, \"the overwhelming dependency on development partners (i.e. external donors) with over 94% of the total investment funds provided in 2013/14 (does) not augur well for the sector.\" The main sources of funding for Kenyan water institutions are three: government funds which had still constituted 58% of sector funding in 2008–2009, internally generated funds that had amounted to 11%, and donor contributions that made up 31% of the funds available at the time. One-third of the contributions by development partners were channelled through government budget, while the remaining two–thirds were disbursed outside the budget. Of the estimated donor funding for 2008–2009, 70% was in the form of loans, whereas grants represented 30%.\n\nFunding for measures aimed at improving access to water and sanitation in areas without adequate services – especially areas inhabited by the poor – is provided by the Water Services Trust Fund (WSTF). The WSTF receives funds from the Government of Kenya and from donor agencies and directs them to the 362 poorest locations throughout the country (identified in collaboration with Water Services Boards).\n\nSince 2009 Kenya's largest mobile phone company extended its mobile phone bank transaction payment system M-Pesa to be used for the payment of water utility bills. As of 2012 more than 12 million Kenyans and 85% of the urban population use mobile phones for Bank transactions. A study by the University of Oxford showed that prior to the introduction of this system residents of Kiamumbi on the outskirts of Nairobi had to make a 40-minute round trip on public transport, a wait in a lengthy queue to make a bank deposit and then present the slip at the offices of the water utility to pay their monthly bill. When the small utility serving the local water system allowed payments through M-Pesa in December 2010, within two months half their customers switched to the mobile phone payment system.\n\nKenya receives external support from several donor agencies with a currently ongoing project volume of €627 million. The major donors are, namely, the African Development Bank, France, Germany, Sweden and Denmark, as well as the World Bank: Other donors include: the European Commission, Italy, Finland, Japan (through JICA), the Netherlands and UNICEF. External assistance is focused on urban water supply and sanitation, with much less activities in rural areas.\n\nIn October 2006 the Kenyan Government initiated a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp) to harmonise the activities of the development partners, the co-ordination and the implementation of projects. The SWAp helps to improve the sector dialogue between the Ministry and the donors and to strengthen cross-sectoral links. A common sector policy framework, monitoring as well as a common sector program and strategy are being developed by the major donor agencies. Since 2007 an Annual Water Sector Review (AWSR) is carried out which helps to foster the alignment of donor projects among other things. The Development Partners have formed the Water Sector Technical Group (WSTG) to improve co-ordination and harmonisation among themselves, as well as a Water Sector Working Group (WSWG) to co-ordinate with the government. The WSTG is led by a troika and a chair that rotates on an annual basis. In 2012, the troika included Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden.\n\nThe African Development Bank is present in the Kenyan water and sanitation sector with the following projects with a donor volume of around €70 million:\n\nThe French Development Agency (AFD) supports the Kenyan water and sanitation sector through projects in Nairobi, Kisumu and Mombasa. In 2008 the total financing for on-going projects was €105 million, including a €40 million loan for Mombasa approved in 2008. In 2009 AFD approved a new €51 million loan for water supply and sanitation in Nairobi and Kisumu. In the past, the agency also financed projects in Kandara, Kahuti, Litein and Siaya.\n\nSince 1975 Germany has supported the Kenyan water sector through the German Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development, which operates through GIZ in charge of technical co-operation and KfW in charge of financial co-operation. KfW has been nominated as the sector coordinator. Germany's ongoing programmes amount to approximately €80 million. The main development aid objective of the bilateral co-operation is to support sector institutions in ensuring sustainable and equitable access to safe water and sanitation in urban settings and to safeguard water resources. For example, GIZ contributes to the state target within its \"Water Sector Reform Programme\" from 2003 to 2013: The Project has several components such as: a) supporting the water ministry in sector reform b) regulation of the water sector and poverty-oriented financing commercialisation of water supply and sanitation c) commercialisation of water supply and sanitation d) capacity-building for the Water Resources Management Authority e) introduction of recycling-oriented sanitation (Ecosan).\n\nSweden, Denmark and Kenya have a long-standing co-operation in the water sector. Since 2005 Sweden, through the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) together with Denmark, through the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), has supported the Kenya Water and Sanitation Programme (KWSP) which has had a total grant budget of US$80 million during 2005 – 2010. KWSP has supported the implementation of the water sector reforms, with a special focus on institution building, rural water supply and sanitation, and water resources management.\n\nThe World Bank’s \"Water and Sanitation Service Improvement Project\" for the period 2007–2012 in Kenya has a total loan volume of approximately $159 million. It supports the Athi Water Services, Coast Water Services and Lake Victoria North Services boards and, moreover, provides the Water Sector Regulatory Board and the Water Appeal Board with technical assistance. Besides investments in infrastructure the project also supports activities aimed at strengthening the commercial, financial and technical operations.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "37677419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37677419", "title": "YouCaring", "text": "YouCaring\n\nYouCaring is a crowdfunding website for personal, medical, and charitable causes. The company is a Certified B corporation based in San Francisco, California. YouCaring does not take a percentage of funds raised on its site, or charge those raising funds a fee (any fees associated with third-party credit card processors such as PayPal are paid by donors).The company relies on voluntary donations from donors to fund operations. YouCaring was acquired by GoFundMe in 2018.\n\nYouCaring was founded in 2011 by Brock Ketcher, Naomi Ketcher, and Luke Miner. After returning from two years of international mission trips, the three friends wanted to continue to give back. They created a free crowdfunding website so people could raise money to overcome hardship. To date, YouCaring has raised over $800 million from more than 8 million donors. In March 2017, YouCaring acquired GiveForward. In May 2016, YouCaring became a Certified B Corporation. Each year, YouCaring releases internal fundraising data to show which cities in America are (by their own estimation) the most compassionate.\n\nYouCaring users create crowdfunding campaigns to raise money for personal, medical, and charitable causes. Nearly 50% of the money raised on YouCaring is for medical expenses. Users write an explanation of their needs, set the amount they need to raise, upload supporting photos and video, and share their fundraisers through social channels and email. Donations can be made using credit card processors PayPal, WePay, or Stripe. YouCaring trademarked the name Compassionate Crowdfunding to describe its service. YouCaring doesn’t charge a fee to those raising funds, but a third-party credit card processing fee exists. Operating costs (including salaries for YouCaring employees) are funded by voluntary donations.\n\nYouCaring does not charge the fundraiser a fee, but YouCaring does ask that the donor provide a \"Tip\" to YouCaring. The credit card processing fee for each donation is 2.9% plus $0.30 per donation, which is paid by the donor. All crowdfunding platforms charge money either through the tipping fee structure that YouCaring charges or through a straight percentage which the fundraiser pays on the total amount raised.\n\nMany journalists have pointed to crowdfunding for medical expenses as evidence for the failings of for-profit healthcare in the US and elsewhere. Some of that criticism has also been extended to crowdfunding sites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14613608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14613608", "title": "Yvette Estermann", "text": "Yvette Estermann\n\nYvette Estermann born as Gavlasova (born February 26, 1967) is a Swiss politician and member of the National Council from the Canton of Lucerne.\n\nEstermann was born in Bratislava, Czechoslovakia (now Slovakia). She studied medicine at the Comenius University, where she obtained her doctorate in 1993. One year later, she emigrated to Switzerland to marry her Swiss partner and pursue studies in homeopathic medicine. After ceasing to practice medicine due to the time demands of her political office, she now works as a life coaching consultant. Estermann lives in Kriens with her son and husband.\n\nAfter obtaining Swiss citizenship in 1999, Estermann joined the right-wing Swiss People's Party (SVP). In 2005, she was elected to the cantonal parliament, the Grand Council of Lucerne, and in the 2007 national elections, she was elected to the National Council. Despite her foreign origin, Estermann is very vocal against immigration of foreigners into Switzerland.\n\nEstermann was member of the board of Cosmos AG, the business which ran the Swiss degree mill \"Free University of Teufen\".\n\nShe's a member of a Campaign for an Independent and Neutral Switzerland.\n\n"}
