{"id": "15680174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15680174", "title": "2001 Isla Vista killings", "text": "2001 Isla Vista killings\n\nOn February 23, 2001, a vehicular homicide and assault occurred in the student community of Isla Vista, California, near the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB) campus. Four people were killed and a fifth, who suffered critical injuries, died in October 2016. The driver, David Attias, was ruled legally insane and sentenced to 60 years at a mental institution. In September 2012 the court approved Attias' conditional release into a monitored program.\n\nOn the evening of February 23, 2001, just after 11:00 p.m., UCSB student David Attias, the 18-year-old son of television director Dan Attias, drove his father's 1991 Saab 9000 down the 6500 block of Sabado Tarde Road at a speed of 50 to 65 miles per hour. Four pedestrians were killed and one was critically injured. According to a police statement, \"All five victims were thrown forward, some being knocked out of their shoes and socks.\"\n\nAccording to witnesses, Attias got out and yelled \"I am the Angel of Death!\". He continued to taunt a growing crowd, until he was subdued by the first CHP officer that arrived on the scene. In the initial aftermath, it was unclear if Attias was affected by taking drugs, or if the attack was intentional. Blood tests later showed that Attias was under the influence of marijuana and Lidocaine, but neither were deemed significant to the incident.\n\nFour people were killed in the assault: 20-year-old UCSB students Nicholas Bourdakis and Christopher Divis, 27-year-old San Francisco resident Elie Israel, and 20-year-old Santa Barbara City College student Ruth Levy. Albert Arthur Levy, 27, brother to Ruth, was critically injured but survived. His injuries consisted of crushed legs and a severely battered head, and he died in 2016 after suffering seizures for years caused by the injury.\n\nAttias was charged with four counts of murder, four counts of vehicular manslaughter with gross negligence, and five counts of felony driving under the influence. Residents of his hall told police and the campus paper that Attias had been known for his erratic behavior, including stalking another student. Several students referred to him as \"Crazy Dave\" and \"Tweaker.\" The case received additional media attention because David Attias is the son of Dan Attias, a prominent Hollywood TV director. Attias pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity, and his trial sparked significant interest.\n\nOn June 11, 2002, Attias was convicted in a jury trial of four counts of second-degree murder. He was acquitted of driving under the influence. One week later, the same jury found that Attias was legally insane. This resulted in a sentence of up to 60 years at Patton State Hospital in San Bernardino.\n\nThe case sparked wider debate on how the insanity ruling should apply to the fate of those convicted of murder in California. It is possible that Attias will ultimately serve a greatly reduced sentence than what his prison term would have been had he not been found insane.\n\nA memorial to the victims was installed in Little Acorn Park. It borders the intersection where Attias struck and killed them.\n\nIn May 2012, Attias asked the courts to transfer him from Patton to an outpatient psychiatric facility, stating he has his bipolar disorder under control. The news of his request prompted expressions of concern about his potential risk of relapse or danger from survivors and family of his victims at court hearings on this proposed action. Testimony was heard from mental health professionals. Attias was given a conditional release from Patton State and transferred to a supervised \"unlocked outpatient treatment program\" on September 4, 2012.\n"}
{"id": "43473064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43473064", "title": "Academic boycott of Israel", "text": "Academic boycott of Israel\n\nThe campaign for an academic boycott of Israel was launched in April 2004 by a group of Palestinian academics and intellectuals in Ramallah, in the West Bank, that formed the Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel (PACBI) as part of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) campaign. The campaign calls for BDS activities against Israel to put international pressure on Israel, in this case against Israeli academic institutions, all of which are said by PACBI to be implicated in the perpetuation of Israeli occupation, in order to achieve BDS goals. Since then, proposals for academic boycotts of particular Israeli universities and academics have been made by academics and organisations in Palestine, the United States, the United Kingdom, and other countries. The goal of the proposed academic boycotts is to isolate Israel in order to force a change in Israel's policies towards the Palestinians, which proponents argue are discriminatory and oppressive, including oppressing the academic freedom of Palestinians.\n\nThe campaigns for academic boycott of Israel have led to fierce debate. Proponents have argued that the situation, particularly in the occupied Palestinian territories, constitutes an example of apartheid in Israel. Opponents argue that boycott advocates apply different standards to Israel than other countries, that the boycott is counterproductive, a collective punishment of Israeli academia, and also that the campaign is antisemitic. Despite this debate, academic boycott measures have been undertaken around the world, with some support among academic associations and unions, but with little institutional success.\n\nThe Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel (PACBI) was launched in Ramallah in April 2004 by a group of Palestinian academics and intellectuals. According to PACBI, \"all Israeli academic institutions, unless proven otherwise, are complicit in maintaining the Israeli occupation and denial of basic Palestinian rights.\"\n\nIn reaction to the National Executive Council of the British National Union of Students' BDS resolution on 2 June 2015, Prof. Leslie Wagner argued, \"In reality, co-operation between Israeli and British universities and their academics has grown in recent years under the energetic leadership of outgoing UK ambassador to Israel, Matthew Gould.\"\n\nThe idea of an academic boycott against Israel first emerged publicly in England on 6 April 2002 in an open letter to \"The Guardian\" initiated by Steven and Hilary Rose, professors in biology at the Open University and social policy at the University of Bradford respectively, who called for a moratorium on all cultural and research links with Israel. It read:\nBy July 2002, the open letter had gained over 700 signatories, including those of ten Israeli academics.\n\nIn response to the open letter, Leonid Ryzhik, a senior professor in mathematics at the University of Chicago, led a rival web-based petition that condemned the original's \"unjustly righteous tone\" and warned that the boycott has a \"broader risk of very disruptive repercussions for a wide range of international scientific and cultural contacts.\" The counter petition had gathered almost 1,000 signatories.\n\nIn early June 2002, Mona Baker, a professor of translation studies at the University of Manchester in England and a signatory of the 2002 open letter, removed two Israeli academics – Dr. Miriam Shlesinger of Bar-Ilan University which at the time had a regional branch in the Ariel settlement, a former chair of Amnesty International, Israel; and Professor Gideon Toury of Tel Aviv University – from the editorial boards of the journals \"Translator\" and \"Translation Studies Abstracts\". Subsequently, Baker said that \"Translator\" will no longer publish any research by Israeli scholars and will refuse to sell books and journals to Israeli libraries.\n\nOn 22 April 2005, the Council of Association of University Teachers (AUT) voted to boycott two Israeli universities: University of Haifa and Bar-Ilan University. The motions to AUT Council were prompted by the call for a boycott from nearly 60 Palestinian academics and others. The AUT Council voted to boycott Bar-Ilan because it runs courses at colleges in the West Bank (referring to Ariel College) and \"is thus directly involved with the occupation of Palestinian territories contrary to United Nations resolutions\". It boycotted Haifa because it was alleged that the university had wrongly disciplined a lecturer for supposedly supporting a student who wrote about attacks on Palestinians during the founding of the state of Israel. Some aspects of the student's research had been falsified (see this page) and the University denied having disciplined the lecturer. Union members claimed that staff and students [of Israeli universities] who seek to research Israel's history in full are often \"victimised\".\n\nThe AUT's decision was immediately condemned by Jewish groups and many members of the AUT. Critics of the boycott within and outside the AUT noted that at the meeting at which the boycott motion was passed the leadership cut short the debate citing a lack of time. Specifically, the Board of Deputies of British Jews and the Union of Jewish Students accused the AUT of purposely holding the vote during Passover, when many Jewish members could not be present.\n\nThe presidents of Jerusalem-based al-Quds University and Hebrew University of Jerusalem issued a joint statement condemning the boycott effort as unproductive towards ending the \"shared tragedy\" but rather could prolong it:\nOne of the university presidents, Sari Nusseibeh of al-Quds University, continued: \"If we are to look at Israeli society, it is within the academic community that we've had the most progressive pro-peace views and views that have come out in favor of seeing us as equals [...] If you want to punish any sector, this is the last one to approach.\" He acknowledges, however, that his view is a minority one among Palestinian academics.\n\nZvi Ravner, Israel's deputy ambassador in London, noted, \"[t]he last time that Jews were boycotted in universities was in 1930s Germany.\"\n\nThe British National Postgraduate Committee also voted to oppose the boycott. Project officer Andre Oboler said that the boycott \"runs contrary to our objective, which is to advance in the public interest the education of postgraduate students within the UK\".\n\nAfter the backlash and condemnation – both internal and external – members of the AUT, headed by Open University lecturer and Engage founder Jon Pike – gathered enough signatures to call a special meeting on the subject. Pro-boycott demonstrators called for the AUT to maintain its course against what they described as \"unbelievable pressure\", while anti-boycott demonstrators suggested that the decision had been influenced by antisemitism, and argued that the AUT's integrity was being threatened by a group of \"leftwing extremists\". At the meeting the AUT membership decided to cancel the boycott of both Israeli universities. Reasons cited for the decision were: the damage to academic freedom, the hampering of dialogue and peace effort between Israelis and Palestinians, and that boycotting Israel alone could not be justified.\n\nIn May 2006, on the last day of its final conference, National Association of Teachers in Further and Higher Education (NATFHE) passed motion 198C, a call to boycott Israeli academics who did not vocally speak out against their government: \"The conference invites members to consider their own responsibility for ensuring equity and non-discrimination in contacts with Israeli educational institutions or individuals, and to consider the appropriateness of a boycott of those that do not publicly dissociate themselves from such policies.\" The resolution was dismissed by the AUT, the union into which the NATFHE was merging. Overall four attempts were made to pass pro-boycott motions at the annual conferences of the University teachers, especially following its reorganization as the University and College Union in 2008. Threatened by legal action on the one hand, and opposed by all University heads on the other, these never went beyond the declarative stage.\n\nA group of eight Nobel laureates denounced the policy before it was passed, suggesting that it would limit academic freedom.\n\nBrian Klug made this criticism of the NATFHE motion:\n[E]ven if the policy and rationale were clear and unambiguous, there is a deeper problem with motions of this sort that prevents them from attracting a broad base of support: they rely on the false (or limited) analogy implied by the word \"apartheid\". This is not to say that there are no points of comparison, for there are – just as there are in a host of other countries where minority ethnic and national groups are oppressed. Nor is it even to say that the suffering experienced by Palestinians is less than that endured by \"non-whites\" in South Africa: it may or may not be (although I am not sure how to do the sums). But as I have argued elsewhere: \"The validity of the analogy does not depend on a catalogue of atrocities, however appalling.\"\n\nThe Association of Jewish Sixthformers (AJ6) issued a press release expressing dismay and concern \"about the affects of any boycott on Jewish and Israeli Sixthformers\". Specifically, AJ6 pointed to \"partnerships and exchange visits with Israeli schools and colleges may be under threat\", and \"Jewish students who study in Israel during their Gap Years are worried that teachers may refuse to provide them with references for these programmes.\"\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League issued a statement which condemned the motion explaining:\nIt is profoundly unjust for academics in the only democratic country in the Middle East – the only country where scholarship and debate are permitted to freely flourish – to be held to an ideological test and the threat of being blacklisted because of their views. No one would expect a British or American professor to have to withstand such scrutiny of their political views. Yet, when it comes to Israel a different standard applies.\n\nThe British government, through Foreign and Commonwealth Office Minister Lord Triesman, issued a statement that the motion was \"counterproductive and retrograde\" although the British Government recognized \"the independence of the NATFHE\".\n\nPaul Mackney, the general secretary of NATFHE and who opposed the motion as passed, is quoted after the fact by \"The Guardian\":\nThe ironic thing, is if we had put this to delegates a couple of weeks ago, before the international pro-Israeli lobby started this massive campaign emailing delegates and trying to deny us our democratic right to discuss whatever we like, it probably wouldn't have passed. People feel bullied, and what we have seen is a hardening of attitudes. All they achieved was making the delegates determined to debate and pass the motion.\n\nTamara Traubmann and Benjamin Joffe-Walt, reporting for \"The Guardian\", conducted an analysis of \"whether the campaigns against such boycotts are actually motivated by concerns for academic freedom, or whether they are using the universalist ideal to stifle critical discussion of Israel\". They describe their findings this way:\nThrough discussions with anti-boycott campaigners and a trace of the most common emails (not necessarily abusive) sent to the union and handed over by Natfhe, we found the vast majority of the tens of thousands of emails originated not with groups fighting for academic freedom, but with lobby groups and thinktanks that regularly work to delegitimise criticisms of Israel.\n\nSince 2007, the UCU has been controversially involved in the academic boycotts of Israel and for rejecting the previously accepted definition of \"anti-Semitism\". Some Jewish members resigned following claims of an underlying institutional anti-Semitism. In 2010, the UCU passed a boycott motion that invoked a \"call from the Palestinian Boycott National Committee\" for \"an isolation of Israel while it continues to act in breach of international law\" and calls to \"campaign actively\" against Israel's trade agreement with the European Union. Susan Fuhrman, President of Teachers College, Columbia University said:\n\nAs the president of an academic institution dedicated in large part to the preparation of teachers, I believe that universities and all centers of learning must be allowed to function as safe havens for freedom of discussion, debate and intellectual inquiry, standing apart from national and international politics and partisan strife. Only thus can they continue to produce scholarship that informs the policies and laws of democratic societies and stand as islands of hope in a frequently polarized world... Teachers College welcomes dialogue with Israeli scholars and universities and stands with Columbia University President Lee Bollinger in expressing solidarity with them by inviting UCU to boycott us, as well.\n\nJeremy Newmark of the Jewish Leadership Council and joint head of Stop the Boycott, sharply criticized the boycott proposal, stating that: \"Whether you are a trade unionist wanting a powerful union or whether you are a long-standing campaigner for peace, it is clear that the UCU has taken leave of its senses.\"\n\n\"Haaretz\" reported in 2009 that a group of American professors had joined the boycott call in the wake of the 2008–2009 Israel–Gaza conflict:\nWhile Israeli academics have grown used to such news from Great Britain, where anti-Israel groups several times attempted to establish academic boycotts, the formation of the United States movement marks the first time that a national academic boycott movement has come out of America.\n\nThe group's name is \"U.S. Campaign for the Academic & Cultural Boycott of Israel\". (USACBI)\n\nIn April 2013, the Association for Asian American Studies (AAAS) voted to boycott Israeli universities and academic institutions. It was joined in December by the American Studies Association (ASA). In a vote in which 1,252 of its 5,000 members participated, 66% voted in favour of a boycott. The reasons given were \"Israel's violation of international law and UN resolutions; the documented impact of the Israeli occupation on Palestinian scholars and students; [and] the extent to which Israeli institutions of higher education are a party to state policies that violate human rights,\" and thus \"negatively impact the working conditions of Palestinian scholars and students\". Many proponents of the ASA's boycott, including Yale professor and past president of the ASA Matthew Frye Jacobson, argue that the action can be seen as \"symbolic\", as it is such defined by the ASA council statement. In response to the resolution, a number of organizations and politicians accused the ASA of applying a double standard towards Israel. Opponents of the boycott called the resolution antisemitic and anti-Israel.\n\nIsrael is the only nation ever boycotted by the ASA in the 52 years of the organization's existence. \"The New York Times\" reported that ASA's president Curtis Marez argued that America has \"a particular responsibility to answer the call for boycott because it is the largest supplier of military aid to the state of Israel\". Marez acknowledged that the United States has previously, and is currently, the largest supplier of military aid to many governments, including some with poor human rights records, but explained that Israel is the only country in which \"civil society groups\" had specifically asked the ASA to launch a boycott. Further responding to accusations that the ASA was singling out Israel while ignoring many other nations that have comparable or even worse human rights records that Israel (including many of Israel's neighbors), Marez replied: \"One has to start somewhere.\"\n\nOver 700 new members joined the organisation between the December vote to boycott Israeli academic institutions and April 2014. The ASA subsequently released a statement that said it had \"collected more membership revenue in the past three months than in any other three-month period over the past quarter-century\" and that their organization is \"thriving\".\n\nIn December 2013, the council of the Native American and Indigenous Studies Association voted unanimously in favor of the academic boycott of Israel, becoming the third American academic association to participate in PACBI's Call to action. NAISA made an official declaration of its support for the academic boycott of Israel, choosing to create an original document of declaration in order to protest, \"the infringement of the academic freedom of Indigenous Palestinian academics and intellectuals in the Occupied Territories and Israel who are denied fundamental freedoms of movement, expression, and assembly, which [it] uphold[s].\" The declaration \"encourages NAISA members to boycott Israeli academic institutions because they are imbricated with the Israeli state\".\n\nIn November 2015, the annual business meeting of the American Anthropological Association voted to join the academic boycott campaign, by a margin of 1,040 to 136. In 2016 the resolution was put up for vote by all the members of the Association and was rejected.\n\nIn a speech given at Brooklyn College in 2013 with BDS founding member Omar Barghouti, prominent American academic Judith Butler commented on the reasons behind her support of the academic boycott campaign of the BDS movement stating: \nOthers may interpret the boycott differently, but I have no problem collaborating with Israeli scholars and artists as long as we do not participate in any Israeli institution or have Israeli state monies support our collaborative work. The reason, of course, is that the academic and cultural boycott seeks to put pressure on all those cultural institutions that have failed to oppose the occupation and struggle for equal rights and the rights of the dispossessed, all those cultural institutions that think it is not their place to criticize their government for these practices, all of them that understand themselves to be above or beyond this intractable political condition.\n\nHamid Dabashi, a professor of Iranian studies at Columbia University, is on the advisory board of the U.S. Campaign for the Academic & Cultural Boycott of Israel. Dabashi supports boycott efforts targeting both Israeli individuals and institutions:\nThe divestment campaign that has been far more successful in Western Europe needs to be reinvigorated in North America – as must the boycotting of the Israeli cultural and academic institutions ... Naming names and denouncing individually every prominent Israeli intellectual who has publicly endorsed their elected officials' wide-eyed barbarism, and then categorically boycotting their universities and colleges, film festivals and cultural institutions, is the single most important act of solidarity that their counterparts can do around the world.\n\nOther American academics that have advocated for boycotts against Israel include Andrew Ross and Simona Sawhney.\n\nThe Columbia Palestine Forum (CPF), which was formed at Columbia University in March 2009, maintains that Israel is an apartheid state and advocates boycott and divestment efforts against Israel. The group has called for increased disclosure of university finances to establish that Columbia funds are not being used towards \"maintenance of the Israeli occupation and human rights abuses in Gaza and the West Bank\", and advocates divestment of university funds from any companies that profit from what it describes as the \"continued occupation of Palestinian lands, the maintenance of illegal Israeli settlements and the walls being built around Gaza, the West Bank and Jerusalem\".\n\nCPF outlined its demands to a university representative during a demonstration on 5 March 2009. On the previous day, it held a panel discussion featuring multiple Columbia faculty members who have been supportive of the group. Gil Anidjar, a religion professor, advocated boycott as an appropriate \"exercise of freedom\", while anthropology professor Brinkley Messick indicated that Columbia President Lee Bollinger had agreed to meet with the faculty to discuss the demands for divestment. One CPF member described the group's goals in a 3 March article for Columbia's newspaper, stating, \"by divesting from companies that do business with the occupation, we can put global pressure on the Israeli government to end it.\"\n\nUniversity of Pennsylvania President Amy Gutmann said in January 2012 that the university \"has clearly stated on numerous occasions that it does not support sanctions or boycotts against Israel\". She said that the school was not a sponsor of a BDS conference taking place on campus in February 2012.\n\nIn March 2009, the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) reiterated its opposition to any academic boycott of Israel (or any other country) but added that discussion of the Israel-Palestinian conflict should be encouraged. AFT President Randi Weingarten stated that: \nWe believe academic boycotts were a bad idea in 2002 and are a bad idea now. Academic boycotts are inconsistent with the democratic values of academic freedom and free expression... We want to make clear that this position does not in any way discourage an open discussion and debate of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict or of ways to resolve it. However, we expect that such a discussion would not be one-sided and would consider the behavior of all the relevant actors. An academic boycott of Israel, or of any country, for that matter, would effectively suppress free speech without helping to resolve the conflict.\n\nThe Forward published, in January 2012, an article about Jewish presidents of universities, saying, \"many college presidents\" see BDS as a \"red line\" and \"presidents who were previously disinclined to speak out against anti-Israel activity on campus in the name of preserving open dialogue found themselves publicly opposing the movement.\"\n\nUntil April 2013, no American school had ever divested from or imposed an academic boycott on Israel despite strong boycott campaigns. Former President of Harvard University Larry Summers has called Israel-boycott efforts \"anti-Semitic in their effect if not their intent\". In 2007, nearly 300 university presidents across the United States signed a join statement denouncing the boycott movement. In 2010, a group of 15 American university professors launched a campaign calling for an academic and cultural boycott of Israel.\n\nMany universities and prominent scholars criticized the ASA's support of the boycott. Brandeis University, Pennsylvania State University, Indiana University and Kenyon College decided to withdraw from the ASA. The American Council on Education, an umbrella organisation of 1,800 institutions, the American Association of Universities which represents 62 schools across the US and Canada, and the American Association of University Professors all condemned the boycott.\n\nNinety-two university presidents including of Harvard, Brown, Yale, Princeton, Johns Hopkins, Cornell, Duke, Stanford, Boston, Columbia, Chicago, New York University, Dartmouth College, Wesleyan, Florida, University of Miami, Western Kentucky University, University of Connecticut and University of Washington, condemned the boycott and distanced themselves from the ASA.\n\nHarvard president Drew Gilpin Faust said, \"academic boycotts subvert the academic freedoms and values necessary to the free flow of ideas,\" and that a boycott was \"a direct threat to these ideals\". Former Harvard president Lawrence H. Summers stated that Israel was being unfairly singled out when other countries' human rights records were far worse. The president of Kenyon college dismissed it as a \"geopolitical tool\", endorsing the decision of its American Studies program to secede as an institutional member of the ASA. The president Wesleyan university deplored this \"politically retrograde resolution\", describing it as an irresponsible attack under the guise of phony progressivism.\nRonald S. Lauder, president of the World Jewish Congress, argued that the boycott demonstrated \"the Orwellian antisemitism and moral bankruptcy of the ASA\" while the ADL described the boycott as \"shameful, morally bankrupt and intellectually dishonest attack on academic freedom\".\n\nIn January 2014, 134 members of Congress (69 Democrats, 65 Republicans) signed a letter to ASA president Curtis Marez and president-elect Lisa Duggan, which accused the ASA of engaging in a \"morally dishonest double standard\". The letter stated that: \"Like all democracies, Israel is not perfect. But to single out Israel, while leaving relationships with universities in autocratic and repressive countries intact, suggests thinly-veiled bigotry and bias.\"\n\nIn February 2014 a bill called the \"Protect Academic Freedom Act\" was introduced into the U.S. Congress. The legislation \"seeks to bar federal funds from going to academic institutions that back the BDS movement\". Supporters of the legislation claim that its purpose to oppose \"discriminatory boycotts which impede rather than advance the peace process and that seek to deny Israelis the right to free speech on American campuses\". Those opposing the bill claim that it would fiercely violate the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, and many doubt its efficacy as a response to the ASA's boycott movement.\n\nOn 30 May 2014, Representative Alan Grayson introduced H.R. 4776, a bill \"to prohibit an institution of higher education that participates in a boycott of the Israeli government, economy, or academia from receiving funds from the U.S. federal government\".\n\nIn January 2009, the Ontario branch of the Canadian Union of Public Employees brought forward a proposal to ban Israeli academics from teaching at Ontario Universities. CUPE-Ontario leader Sid Ryan stated, \"we are ready to say Israeli academics should not be on our campuses unless they explicitly condemn the university bombing and the assault on Gaza in general.\" Ryan subsequently said, \"Academic freedom goes both ways. What we are saying is if they want to remain silent and be complicit in these kinds of actions, why should they enjoy the freedom to come and teach in other countries like Canada?\" CUPE's national president, Paul Moist, issued a statement declaring his opposition to the motion and saying, \"I will be using my influence in any debates on such a resolution to oppose its adoption.\"\n\nShortly after its original statement, CUPE removed its call to boycott individual academics from its website and replaced it with statement that called instead for a boycott \"aimed at academic institutions and the institutional connections that exist between universities here and those in Israel\". Tyler Shipley, spokesperson for CUPE local 3903 at York University, told the Toronto Star that his group will begin to advocate for York to sever financial ties to Israel.\n\nSome observers have questioned what practical effect any CUPE resolution will have since the 20,000 university workers represented by CUPE Ontario include campus staff but almost no full-time faculty.\n\nThe University of Western Sydney's Student Association (UWSSA) formally affiliated to the \"Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel\" in February 2009, following a request from PACBI. The President of the UWSSA, Jacob Carswell-Doherty, later stated, \"We have no interest in hearing the Israeli viewpoint. Our agenda is to persuade the university administration to implement the terms of the boycott.\"\n\nIn 2013, the issue of Academic Boycotts and the BDS campaign received significant press treatment when a suit was filed against professor Jake Lynch, the director of the Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies at the University of Sydney, by Shurat HaDin, a pro-Israel legal lobby organization. The 30 page suit focusses on Lynch's denying sponsorship to professor Dan Avnon of Hebrew University because of his center's pro-BDS policy not to support institutions with ties to the Israeli military and the ongoing occupation of the West Bank. Andrew Hamilton of Shurat HaDin stated \"Our strategic aim in this case is to address the unlawful racial discrimination of the BDS movement generally and the academic boycott in particular, rather than to narrowly focus on the discrimination against Prof. Avnon.\" The case has been described as a \"landmark legal suit\" and \"a major test of the legality of the boycott, divestments and sanctions (BDS) campaign\".\n\nIn July 2014, Shurat HaDin-the Israel Law Center announced that it was withdrawing its Lawsuit against Lynch. Lynch stated that this decision \"gives the green light for many more Australians to take their own action in solidarity with the Palestinian struggle for rights and freedoms we are lucky enough to be able to take for granted\".\n\nIn January 2016, 168 Italian academics and researchers published a call to boycott Israeli academic institutions. Technion – Israel Institute of Technology, was singled out as a boycott target. \"The Institute carries out research in a wide range of technologies and weapons used to oppress and attack Palestinians,\" said the call.\n\nIn April 2013 the Teachers Union of Ireland (TUI) passed a motion calling for an academic boycott of Israel. Jim Roche, who presented the motion, said \"I am very pleased that this motion was passed with such support by TUI members (...) there is no question that Israel is implementing apartheid policies against the Palestinians.\"\n\nFollowing a referendum among NUI Galway students in March 2014, the NUI Galway Students' Union officially began supporting the campaign of Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions against Israel.\n\nOn 5 September 2010, a nationwide academic petition was initiated by academics supporting a termination of a partnership agreement between the University of Johannesburg (UJ) and Ben-Gurion University (BGU); a long-standing partnership dating back to apartheid era relations between the two institutions. Well-known academics such as Professors Breyten Breytenbach, John Dugard, Mahmood Mamdani, Antjie Krog and Achille Mbembe are signatories to the academic petition, which is also backed by Vice-Chancellors from four universities in South Africa.\n\nAmid widespread public attention, both within South Africa and internationally, the campaign to boycott BGU quickly gained momentum and within a few days more than 250 academics had signed the petition, stating: \"The Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories has had disastrous effects on access to education for Palestinians. While Palestinians are not able to access universities and schools, Israeli universities produce the research, technology, arguments and leaders for maintaining the occupation. BGU is no exception, by maintaining links to both the Israeli Defence Force (IDF) and the arms industry BGU structurally supports and facilitates the Israeli occupation.\"\n\nOn 26 September 2010 Archbishop Desmond Tutu released a letter through \"The Sunday Times\", under the heading \"Israeli ties: a chance to do the right thing\", supporting the academics. The Nobel Laureate's position in favour of the boycott was accompanied by an appeal that: \"The University of Johannesburg has a chance to do the right thing, at a time when it is unsexy.\"\n\nFormer South African cabinet minister and ANC leader Ronnie Kasrils also came out in support of the boycott call and wrote in the Guardian: \"Israeli universities are not being targeted for boycott because of their ethnic or religious identity, but because of their complicity in the Israeli system of apartheid\" and \"The principled position of academics in South Africa to distance themselves from institutions that support the occupation is a reflection of the advances already made in exposing that the Israeli regime is guilty of an illegal and immoral colonial project.\"\n\nAgainst the backdrop of the publicly supported campaign, UJ's highest academic body (Senate) voted on Wednesday, 29 September 2010 \"not to continue a long-standing relationship with Ben-Gurion University in Israel in its present form\" and conditionally terminate its Apartheid-era relationship with BGU.\n\nA fact-finding investigation conducted by the University confirmed BGU's links with the Israeli Defence Force (IDF) and complicity in the Israeli occupation. Accepting the recommendations of the report, the University committed itself to end any research or teaching relationship with Ben-Gurion University that has direct or indirect military links; or in instances where human rights abuses are identified. The University has stated that if BGU violates any of the conditions agreed on by Senate or UJ's stated principles, which include \"solidarity with any oppressed population\", the relationship will be terminated completely after 6 months.\n\nWithin hours of the University of Johannesburg's decision to conditionally terminate its links with Ben-Gurion University, major South African universities began looking into their own ties with Israeli universities.\n\nWits University vice-chancellor Loyiso Nongxa told journalists that he was not aware of \"any formal links – a memorandum of understanding [MoU] – between Wits and Israeli universities\". Three hours later, Wits university's spokesperson confirmed that it \"has no formal ties with any Israeli university, according to our database\".\n\nThe University of Cape Town followed suit shortly afterwards, stating, \"There are no institution-level partnerships with Israeli universities.\" The University of Pretoria, University of KwaZulu-Natal and Stellenbosch University have since confirmed that they have no formal partnerships with institutions in Israel.\n\nOn 27 July 2012 Wits University Students' Representative Council (Wits SRC) adopted a declaration of academic and cultural boycott of Israel.\n\nThe Wits SRC academic boycott has not been renewed since it was passed in 2012 and is de facto no longer operable at the institution. A number of Wits SRC and former Wits SRC members have visited the country and talked about their experiences. They have said they are against boycotts and that calling Israel an apartheid state is an insult to black South Africans. Israeli writers and the Israeli director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have also visited the campus.\n\nA prominent Palestinian academic, president of Al-Quds University, Sari Nusseibeh, has argued against academic boycotts of Israel, telling Associated Press \"If we are to look at Israeli society, it is within the academic community that we've had the most progressive pro-peace views and views that have come out in favor of seeing us as equals... If you want to punish any sector, this is the last one to approach.\" He acknowledges, however, that his view is a minority one among Palestinian academics.\n\nThe academic boycott of South Africa is frequently invoked as a model for more recent efforts to organize academic boycotts of Israel.\n\nSome invoke the comparison to claim that an academic boycott of Israel should not be controversial based on a misconception that the academic boycott of South Africa was uncontroversial and straightforward. The reality, at the time, was very different. The effort was the subject of significant criticism and contentious debate from diverse segments. Andy Beckett wrote in \"The Guardian\" on this frequent mistaken comparison: \"In truth, boycotts are blunt weapons. Even the most apparently straightforward and justified ones, on closer inspection, have their controversies and injustices.\"\n\nOthers, such as Hillary and Stephen Rose in \"Nature\" (2002), make the comparison and argue for an academic boycott of Israel based on a belief that the academic boycott of South Africa was effective in ending apartheid. George Fink responds (Nature 2002) that asserting that the boycott of South Africa by the world's academic communities 'was instrumental in ending apartheid in South Africa' is a deception and was actually terminated by two pivotal and interrelated political events: strict economic sanctions on South Africa imposed by the United States Congress in 1986 and measures by South Africa president F. W. de Klerk in 1989 and 1990.\n\nIn 2010, the Senate of the University of Johannesburg recommended cutting off all links with Ben-Gurion University in Israel because of the country's policies. The scientific agreement, which focused on cooperation in water research, had only been signed in the previous year. Prior to making a final decision, the university sent a senior delegation of its faculty on a fact finding tour to Israel in January 2011.\n\nAnthony Julius and Alan Dershowitz argue that despite a small number of Jews who have supported boycotts, the boycotts themselves are antisemitic, using their anti-Zionism as a cover for \"Jew hatred\". They compare the boycotts to the 1222 Canterbury Council sharply limiting Christian contact with Jews, and Nazi boycotts of Jewish shops in the 1930s, as well as Arab League attempts to economically isolate Israel and refrain from purchasing \"anything Jewish\".\n\nHarvard President Larry Summers \"blasted\" the boycotts as \"antisemitic\":\n\n[T]here is much that should be, indeed that must be, debated regarding Israeli policy... But the academic boycott resolution passed by the British professors union in the way that it singles out Israel is in my judgment anti-Semitic in both effect and in intent. \n\nSummers had previously argued that a proposed boycott was antisemitic \"in effect, if not intent\". This position was criticized by Judith Butler, in an article titled \"No, it's not anti-semitic\". Butler argues the distinction of effective antisemitism, and intentional antisemitism is at best controversial. \nIf we think that to criticise Israeli violence, or to call for economic pressure to be put on the Israeli state to change its policies, is to be \"effectively anti-semitic\", we will fail to voice our opposition for fear of being named as part of an anti-semitic enterprise. No label could be worse for a Jew, who knows that, ethically and politically, the position with which it would be unbearable to identify is that of the anti-semite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41064811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41064811", "title": "Arabs in Serbia", "text": "Arabs in Serbia\n\nArabs in Serbia () are mostly expatriates from a range of Arab countries, particularly Libya, Lebanon, Syria, the Palestinian Territories, Iraq, and Jordan; and also small groups from Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, and Sudan. Lebanese and Syrian citizens were the first Arabs to arrive in modern Serbia. In the 1970s and 1980s, many students from Iraq and Syria were enrolled at the University of Belgrade. More recently, as a result of the Arab Spring and the Syrian Civil War, large numbers of Arabs are transiting Serbia as refugees, trying to immigrate to Western Europe.\n\nThere is a small community of Libyans in Serbia, mainly residing in Belgrade. There has been a Libyan School in Belgrade since 1997, which has since expanded in 2012 to cater to the community.\n\nMost of the Iraqis in Serbia are educated people, and they view Serbia as a \"friendly and brotherly\" country.\n\nBy the first half of 2013, 432 citizens of Syria had requested asylum in Serbia.\n\nCommunity members adhere to Islam (see also Islam in Serbia) and Eastern Christianity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38908600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38908600", "title": "BIHAMK", "text": "BIHAMK\n\nBIHAMK or Bosanskohercegovački auto-moto klub (in English: Bosnia and Herzegovina Automobile and Motorcycle Club), as one of the three main Bosnian motoring clubs (along with AAMKBIH and AMSRS), is a local equivalent to the American AAA or British AA. BIHAMK continues the tradition of Bosnia-car racing-motorcycle association (Bosanskohercegovačko automobilističko društvo) founded 7 February 1946 and the Automobile Association of BiH (Auto-moto savez BiH) founded in 1947.\n\nBIHAMK plays a special role in the field of public information about the condition of the roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It also provides technical assistance to drivers, issues International Driving Permits and other such documents for Bosnian drivers and publishes informative tourist brochures and maps for Bosnia and Herzegovina and Europe.\n\nBIHAMK works in the field of traffic prevention and education, monitoring road safety, suggesting methodological improvements to relevant authorities and producing various manuals in the field of accident prevention notably.\n\nThe club enjoys reciprocal membership with many other European and international motoring clubs and encourages the development and improvement of motorsport within the international rules and norms.\n\nBIHAMK is a full member of:\n\n"}
{"id": "1254610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1254610", "title": "Barbie Liberation Organization", "text": "Barbie Liberation Organization\n\nThe Barbie Liberation Organization or BLO, sponsored by RTMark, are a group of artists and activists involved in culture jamming. They gained notoriety in 1993 by switching the voice boxes on talking G.I. Joes and Barbie dolls. The BLO performed \"surgery\" on a reported 300–500 dolls and then returned them to the shelves of stores, an action they refer to as \"shopgiving\". This action resulted in girls opening their new Teen Talk Barbie to hear it say phrases such as \"vengeance is mine\" and boys hearing their G.I. Joe say \"The beach is the place for summer.\"\n\nThe BLO was originally conceived in an effort to question and ultimately change the gender stereotypes American culture is known for after Mattel released a speaking Barbie that said \"Math class is tough.\" It took place in the middle of the culture wars of the 1990s when creative dissent was once again gaining popularity and artists and activists were often trying to conceive of new ways to rebel against cultural stereotypes and powerful forms like network TV. By 1993, criticism for Barbie as a negative gender stereotype for women was commonplace both in academia and popular culture. This may have been partially responsible for the generally positive response of the public to the project, the criticism they were making was familiar and not a controversial point to make during the 1990s. Although their criticism was not new, the creative form of hacking used by the BLO was noteworthy.\n\nThere is a detailed description of the complex \"surgery\" they performed available on their website, encouraging others to take part in the surgeries themselves. The surgery required some technical skills, tools and precision, but the voice boxes in the dolls were similar enough that the surgery could be reproduced fairly easily in other parts of the country. They outlined the surgery in easy to understand images. After the surgery they would secretly return the toys to shelves, what they call \"reverse shoplifting\". Therefore, everything they did was perfectly legal.\n\nThey also produced a video to explain their point. They used the familiar form of the nightly news message, collaged with cutting edge video art techniques to get their point across. Viewers would be unable to tell exactly what was news and what was made up, they made some points through exaggerations and some through the use of actual news footage.\n\nThe media responded with coverage, but no legal issues were ever seriously raised. Hasbro and Mattel, the makers of the dolls brushed off the action with little fuss, although one person was outraged with the \"terrorist attacks\" directed at children.\n\nBecause of the nature of culture jamming, it is hard to tell how many Barbies and G.I. Joes were actually switched, and how much of the media attention was orchestrated by the group. The artist Igor Vamos, known for acts of media intervention, intentionally fed information to the media to report more cases of the switched identity surgeries. Although most sources suggest from 300–500 toys were hacked, other reports up to 3,000 across the country and in other countries like Canada, France and England. Others assert that only 12 toys were actually switched and the rest was cleverly arranged media hype by Vamos and his associates. This perspective indicates that the project was also a critique of the nature of the television and media culture of the 1990s, which led to other media interventions by Vamos, collaborators, and other groups in the coming years.\n\n"}
{"id": "28930381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28930381", "title": "Community spirit", "text": "Community spirit\n\nCommunity spirit finds expression in individual or group activities in which members of a community choose to engage for the benefit of that community. These activities may be locally organised, or informal and spontaneous.\nAccording to Amitai Etzioni, community spirit is a unity of people in society who uphold and share similar values and resources. It is a prerequisite for community spirit that individuals are willing to a degree to sacrifice their own interests for the good of the community. Community spirit is associated with voluntary work, favours and gestures of goodwill by residents and local businesses. A dictionary definition of \"community spirit\" is \"willingness and desire to participate in activities that promote a community\".\n\nThe measure of community spirit is subjective, but could be assessed from the achievements resulting from community activities, in addition to the level of contentment expressed by community members.\n\nAccording to Durkheim, Collective effervescence indicates the intensity of group bonds through communal gatherings such as religious meetings. These bonds people create within a group ‘generate a kind of electricity that quickly transports them to an extraordinary degree of exaltation’. Meaning, when people come together in such near proximity and share the sense of group, it generates a high degree of happiness. Thus, creating a feeling of collectiveness which reinforces social bonds. This feeling is initiated when there is Group cohesiveness, for example, when individuals share the same life experience the sense of group occurs. The expression of community spirit entails a group or individual engaging in activities that benefit the community, whats bonds the group in community spirit is the goal. The group works towards the same common goal, which is to better the community by committing positive acts of voluntary work. \n\nImprovements to a community can be achieved by its members voluntarily working together on community projects or acting on gestures of goodwill. Examples of such contributions could include removing debris from the streets or public parks; organizing a community fair, a school fete or a charity event at a local venue; or rallying round when a community member is in need of support. Standing groups such as a neighbourhood watch or Women's Institute may also help create community spirit.\n\nCommunity spirit is showcased through the efforts of community work. Community work is often carried out by members of a community involved in local groups, neighborhood groups or associations which engage in public service. Community work contributes to the community as a whole with acts of benefit to the public interest. According to \"Random House Dictionary\", public interest is \"1. the welfare or well-being of the general public; commonwealth. 2. appeal or relevance to the general populace: a news story of public interest.\"\n\nCommunity spirit can also be defined as pride within a community. Community spirit can be displayed in forms of customized apparel. For example, the community logo can be placed on T-shirts, baseball caps, or bumper stickers. Communities can also display spirit by supporting local charities and schools. Community newspapers display spirit in articles relating to local volunteering, local charities, and announce a variety of community topics.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Community Spirit Partnership is a community interest company (CIC) working for community-based development. It assists parish councils, town councils and other local groups in formulating neighbourhood development plans and other community-led initiatives.\n\nMiami Community Newspapers is a local publication in Miami-Dade County, Florida. This publication distributes local newspapers in 14 communities in the region of South Florida. The community’s biweekly newspaper publishes a variety of columns, including articles on education, fundraisers and multiculturalism. Community media promotes the local community's interest and showcases community news. \n"}
{"id": "17604522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17604522", "title": "Compensatory education", "text": "Compensatory education\n\nCompensatory education offers supplementary programs or services designed to help children at risk of cognitive impairment and low educational achievement succeed.\n\nPoor children do worse in school than their well-off peers. They are more likely to experience learning\ndisabilities and developmental delays. Poor children score between 6 and 13 points lower on various standardized tests of IQ, verbal ability, and achievement. Poverty also has a negative impact on high-school graduation and college attendance. \nChildren raised by a single parent, children who have more than two siblings, children by teenaged parents and children raised in poverty-stricken neighbourhoods are also at risk of low academic achievement.\n\nNumerous programs have been created in order to help children at risk reach their full potential. Among the American programs of compensary education are Head Start, the Chicago Child-Parent Center Program, High/Scope, Abecedarian Early Intervention Project, SMART (Start Making a Reader Today), the Milwaukee Project and the 21st Century Community Learning Center. In Germany and Great Britain Early Excellence Centres are widely discussed programs of compensatory education. Not all of that programs have been proven to be effective. However scientists were able to identify social programmes that work. Among these are the High/Scope Perry Preschool Project, the Abecedarian Project, and SMART.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22283321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22283321", "title": "Crown of João VI", "text": "Crown of João VI\n\nThe Crown of João VI, also known as the Portuguese Royal Crown (Portuguese: Coroa de João VI; Coroa Real de Portugal) is the most recent and only extant crown of the Portuguese Crown Jewels.\n\nThe crown is fashioned out of gold, silver, iron, and red velvet. Its eight half arches are surmounted by a monde: a globus cruciger on a crown, with a cross at its top—as Portugal was a Catholic nation. The base of the crown is elaborately decorated with baroque patterns and designs.\n\nThe Crown of João VI was made in 1817 for the acclamation of King João VI. The crown was fashioned in the workshop of D. Antonio Gomes da Silva, the Royal Jeweler. \n\nThe crown was made as part of the set of crown jewels, which included the Sceptre of the Armillary and the Mantle of João VI, which was specifically made for João VI's acclamation. It then became the official crown of the monarchs of Portugal and was used by all the Portuguese monarchs after João VI.\n\nThough serving as the monarchy's official symbol, the crown was never actually worn by any Portuguese monarch. In 1646, King John IV of Portugal had consecrated the Crown of Portugal to the Virgin Mary; following this, no Portuguese sovereign ever wore a diadem, though it was usually present at the ceremony where his ascension was proclaimed. \n\nThe crown saw its last official use during the reign of Manuel II of Portugal, when it was used for his acclamation and at the official opening of the Cortes, the Portuguese parliament.\n\nThe Crown of João VI, along with all the other Portuguese Crown Jewels, are kept in the Ajuda National Palace, in Lisbon, though they are not on display to the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54509409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54509409", "title": "Darnell Hawkins", "text": "Darnell Hawkins\n\nDarnell Felix Hawkins (born November 24, 1946) is an American sociologist and criminologist. He is emeritus professor of African-American studies, sociology, and criminal justice at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He is known for his research on racial differences in crime, the ways in which the law is applied differently across races, and violence prevention. This includes research on urban violence\nand racial profiling.\nHawkins received his B.A. from Kansas State University in 1968, his M.A.T. from Wayne State University in 1970, his A.M. and Ph.D. from the University of Michigan in 1974 and 1976, respectively, and his J.D. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1981. He was a professor at UIC from 1987 until his retirement from there in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "22947828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22947828", "title": "Dera Sach Khand", "text": "Dera Sach Khand\n\nDera Sach Khand (Punjabi Gurmukhi: ਡੇਰਾ ਸਚ ਖੰਡ ਬੱਲਾਂ, Shahmukhi: ڈیرہ پالیسیاں کان بالا) is a religious social organization (dera) based in the village of Ballan near Jalandhar, Punjab, India. It was founded by devotees of Guru Ravidas.\n\nDera Sach Khand is devoted to the cause of leading common masses towards a spiritual path. The spiritual heads of the Dera have initiated millions of people and bestowed them with \"Naamdaan\". They have also adopted the mission of spreading the teachings and \"bani\" \"sacred writings\" of Guru Ravidass throughout India as well as in foreign countries.\n\nThe Dera has built a temple at Seer Goverdhanpur Varanasi U.P., the birthplace of Guru Ravidass. Every year they gather in Lakhs on the occasion of Guruji's birthday. The Dera has also built many Darbars in the name of Guru Ravidass in other Indian areas including Sirsgarh in Haryana and Katraj in Pune. The Dera has also managed to establish the Ravidassia Religion,due to the fact of discrimination and the assationation of Sant Ramanand Ji.\n\nThe Dera has built charitable hospitals and a school for providing health and education for the poor and needy. The Dera spreads the philosophy of Ravidass through the publication of various books, periodicals as well as visual media such as CDs, DVDs and tapes. The Dera encourages scholars who either carry out research on Ravidass or bring out publications on related subjects. Thus far 22 scholars have been awarded gold medals for their contribution in this area.\n\nStarted the movement of teaching the principles of Ravidassia Religion to devotees. Sant Baba Pipal Dass, who hailed from village Gill Patti, District Bathinda (Punjab). His original name was Shri Harnam Dass. His parents were of a religious nature. He was married to Bibi Shobhawanti. He and his wife had two sons named Shri Sewa Dass and Shri Sarwan Dass. After the sad demise of Bibi Shobhawanti, Baba Pipal Dass left village Gill Patti along with his son Sarwan Dass. After traveling through various villages Baba Pipal Dass reached village Sarmastpur near Jalandhar. After a short stay in this village he moved to the village of Ballan near Jalandhar. The people of Ballan showed utmost regard to Baba. Therefore, he decided to stay there along with his son Sarwan Dass at a place where the original Dera is situated at present. There was a dry Pipal tree near this place of worship. Baba Pipal Dass started watering this Pipal tree which ultimately became green in due course of time. People of the village, having seen this miracle, started calling Baba as Sant Pipal Dass.\n\nHe was a scholar of Punjabi and well-wersed in the Bani of Guru Granth Sahib. Slowly the people from nearby villages started coming to Baba for spiritual guidance. Thus Sant Baba Pipal Dass established the Dera in the village where the followers of Guru Ravidass started paying their obeisance. Throughout his life Sant Baba Pipal Dass blessed his disciples with \"Naamdaan\" and fulfilled their wishes.\n\nSant Baba Pipal Dass left for his heavenly abode in 1928 on 13th shradh (lunar month). The present Gaddi-Nashin of the Dera, Sant Niranjan Dass was keen to build a suitable memorial at village Gill Patti. In this village there was a piece of land which belonged to his family. On this land there was a historic \"Ber\" tree planted by Baba Pipal Dass. At this site a memorial was established by Dera Sant Sarwan Dass on 5 July 2008. A \"murti\" (marble sculpture) was installed by Shri 108 Sant Niranjan Dass.\n\nthumb\n\nSant Sarwan Dass preached the philosophy and teachings of Guru Ravidass among the socially backward and downtrodden throughout his life. He remained very distressed by the fact that there was no memorial to Guru Ravidass in the city of Varanasi, though many Kings and Queens were his disciples. Sant Sarwan Dass, being a great spiritual, visionary and revolutionary saint, undertook the task of perpetuating the memory of Guru at Varanasi and giving a befitting memorial in his name. He assigned the task of tracing the birthplace of Guru in the city of Varanasi to a select group of people. The group went to Varanasi and surveyed the area near the Banaras Hindu University. The \"imlee\" tree and other indicators confirmed a location in village Seer Goverdhanpur, in the outskirts of Varanasi near Banaras Hindu University, as the birthplace of Guru Ravidass. A plot of land was purchased and no time was lost to start the construction of an impressive temple. Sant Sarwan Dass deputed his first disciple Sant Hari Dass along with a large number of devotees of Dera Bal to start the construction of the Mandir. Sant Hari Dass laid the foundation stone of the Mandir on Monday 14 June 1965 on Ashad Sankranti. As soon as the foundation stone was laid no time was lost in starting the construction of the Mandir in full swing. Sant Sarwan Dass assigned the duty of construction work to his second disciple Sant Garib Dass, who along with large \"Jathas\" (groups of people) of Dera \"Sewadars\" (Stewards) worked in the most difficult and unfavorable conditions to complete the construction of the first phase of the Mandir in 1970. In this endeavor help came from the public at large from within as well as from outside the country. The Guru's devotees residing in U.K. and other foreign countries were also keen to see the project completed and they contributed according to their respective capacities.\n\nIn December 1970 a huge conference of prominent leaders such as Shri Mangu Ram Mugowalia, Shri Dilip Singh, Shri Kulwant Singh from Himachal Pradesh, Captain Bhagu Ram and many others from the Dalit community and a very large number of people from another states of India like Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, J & K and Haryana was held at Dera Sachkhand Ballan. Many resolutions concerning the community were passed. Through one of the resolutions passed in this conference all the delegates expressed gratitude to Sant Sarwan Dass for building a Mandir at the birthplace of Shri Guru Ravidass and at the same time nominated him to be the chairman of the committee formed for the continued construction as well as for managing the affairs of the Mandir.\n\nAll the followers of Guru Ravidass throughout the world they will remain indebted to Sant Sarwan Dass for giving them this place of pilgrimage, where people gather in large number to pay their obeisance throughout the year as well as on Jayanti (birthday) celebration of Guru.\n\nSant Sarwan Dass left for his heavenly abode on 11 June 1972 leaving behind a rich legacy. During his lifetime itself Dera Sachkhand Bal had acquired a prominent status among a large number of followers of Guru Ravidass from within India as well as abroad. These followers draw their inspiration and seek spiritual guidance from the Dera. Recognizing the services being rendered by the Dera the public is contributing generously for the construction and running of hospitals and schools devoted to the memory of Sant Sarwan Dass.\n\nShri 108 Sant Hari Dass Maharaj was the third Gaddi-Nashin (spiritual leader) of Dera Sachkhand, Ballan. Sant Hari Dass was born in 1895 at village Garha in Jalandhar district. His father was Shri Hukum Chand and his mother was Shrimati Taabi. He used to take interest in religious matters since his childhood.\n\nSant Hari Dass had heard about Baba Pipal Dass from the followers of Baba. He showed keen interest to meet Baba. After meeting with Baba Pipal Dass Maharaj, Sant Hari Dass requested Baba to give him the gift of \"Naam\". Baba Pipal Dass Maharaj accepted his request and initiated him. After receiving \"Naam\", Sant Hari Dass devoted his entire life to serving Baba & later his son Sant Sarwan Dass.\n\nSant Sarwan Dass always kept Sant Hari Dass with him, showed great affection for him and deputed him for important religious duties. He was specially assigned the task of laying the foundation stone of Shri Guru Ravidass Janam Asthan Mandir at Seer Goverdhanpur, Varanasi. This was done by him on 14 June 1965 along with the followers of Dera Sachkhand Bal.\n\nAfter Sant Sarwan Dass left for his heavenly abode on 11 June 1972, Sant Hari Dass was installed as Gaddi-Nashin (spiritual leader) of Dera Sachkhand, Bal.\n\nSant Hari Dass started the construction of the temple at Dera Bal on 10 Aug 1972 in the memory of Sant Sarwan Dass Maharaj. Within one year the construction of the temple was completed and it was inaugurated on 11 June 1973 on the first Barsi Samagam (anniversary celebration) of Sant Sarwan Dass. The murti marble sculpture of Sant Sarwan Dass Maharaj was placed in the temple. This temple is famously known as \"Dera Sachkhand Bal\".\n\nHe also constructed a hall for the devotees. This hall is known as the \"Sant Hari Dass Satsang Hall\".\n\nHe was against child marriage. He bestowed \"Naamdaan\" on thousands of disciples. Throughout the life, his disciple Sant Garib Dass had been serving the people by providing Ayurvedic Medicines.\n\nSant Hari Dass left for his heavenly abode on 6 Feb 1982. In the memory of Sant Hari Dass Maharaj, every year on 7 February, Hari Manav Unity saint conference is celebrated in Sant Sarwan Dass Charitable Hospital at Kathar district Jalanadhar.\n\nSant Garib Dass was born in 1925 in a village called Jalbhe which is in Jalandhar district. His father was Shri Nanak Chand and mother was Shrimati Har Kaur. When he was only six months old his father expired. After this tragic incident his mother took care of the little child. He was the youngest of five brothers.\n\nHe used to visit Dera Sachkhand Ballan occasionally. The teaching and ideology of Sant Sarwan Dass impressed him greatly. So he started coming to the Dera more often. Within a short period he won the heart of Sant Sarwan Dass.\n\nShri Kartar Chand took the 13-year-old Garib Dass to Ludhiana for helping him in the business of silk weaving. There he received a letter from Sant Sarwan Dass asking him to come to the Dera immediately for some urgent work. Without wasting any time he reached the Dera. There he was instructed to remain in the Dera from that point onwards. He followed the instructions of Sant Sarwan Dass politely and humbly.\n\nOne day Sant Sarwan Dass told him, \"Garib Dass, detach yourself from the materialistic world and serve the Almighty God.\" \"Har ke naam bin jhuthe sakal pasare\". Garib Dass very obediently prostrated at the feet of Sant Sarwan Dass and vowed to devote his whole life to the service of Almighty God and Humanity. Apart from delving into the fathoms of Gurbani, he learned to prepare Ayurvedic medicines and treated many patients who came to the Dera with various ailments. The young boy had now grown in wisdom and stature under the patronage of Sant Sarwan Dass and in the company of Sant Hari Dass. Therefore, Swami Sarwan Dass used to entrust him with many jobs of responsibility. It is a well known fact that the birthplace of Sri Guru Ravidass at Seer Goverdhanpur, Varanasi was traced thanks to Swami Sarwan Dass. He deputed Sant Hari Dass to lay the foundation stone of the temple to be constructed there. But it was Sant Garib Dass, who was entrusted with the responsibility to develop and complete the construction of the temple. He used to lead a team of sewadars (stewards) to Varanasi for this purpose. Construction of the temple was completed by him in the most difficult weather conditions & challenging circumstances.\n\nWhen Sant Garib Dass became the Gaddi-Nashin (spiritual leader) of Dera Sachkhand Bal on 7 February 1982 he wanted to construct a hospital in the memory of his Guru, for giving medical aid to poor people. A milestone in the history of the Dera Sachkhand Bal was created on 22 October 1982 when Sant Garib Dass laid the foundation stone for Sant Sarwan Dass Charitable Hospital at village Dheypur-Koopur, Adda Kathar. This hospital made a humble beginning with its inauguration on 1 January 1984. Today it is a 150-bed hospital providing quality service in eight specialties at very nominal rates to the people who cannot afford costly medical aid. For those people who cannot meet even the nominal rates, the expenditure is met by Dera Sachkhand Bal. Additionally all expenditure of a capital nature such as machinery or building extensions is met by the Dera.\n\nHe was a great Saint who also understood the importance of having a newspaper, which would serve the cause of the community. So he started a weekly named ‘Begumpura Shehar’, thus giving a voice to the poor people.\n\nDuring his lifetime the Sachkhand temple, Sant Hari Dass Bhavan, Langer Hall and major portion of Yatri Niwas at the Dera were built.\n\nHe laid the foundation stone of Sant Sarwan Dass Teaching Block in the I.T.I (Industrial Training Institute) at Phagwara and got a spacious hall built there. He has also constructed many ‘Guru-Ghars’ (temples) in various cities in India and abroad.\n\nDuring his lifetime, he wanted to see the Janam Asthan Mandir at Varanasi in full glow. He got \"Swarn Kalash\" (gold minarets) installed at the Mandir in the presence of Saheb Kanshi Ram (President of the Bahujan Samaj Party). He paid a historic visit to the mandir along with a number of Dera followers from 16 June to 23 June 1994 as if he had a premonition that he will be leaving this world very soon.\n\nSant Niranjan Dass was born on 5 January 1942 at village Ramdass Pur near Allawalpur in district Jalandhar. His father’s name was Shri Sadhu Ram and mother’s name was Shrimati Rukmani. His father and mother were devotees of Pipal Dass and Sarwan Dass. Whenever they were free from home chores they used to visit Dera Ballan and listen to the holy words and do seva at the Dera. He was always accompanied by their loving son Niranjan Dass. Sarwan Dass was very happy to see the child and used to listen the sweet words from the child.\n\nShri Sadhu Ram, father of Niranjan Dass decided to offer his son at the holy feet of Sant Sarwan Dass. From that point onwards Sant Niranjan Dass remained at the Dera and started doing Sewa at the Dera-attending to miscellaneous jobs which he used to do running about. Seeing the speed at which he used to perform his tasks, Sarwan Dass named him \"Hawaigar\" (\"speedy one\"). He grew up doing service at the feet of Sarwan Dass and later with Hari Dass and Garib Dass. After Garib Dass left for his heavenly abode on 23 July 1994, Niranjan Dass was installed as Gaddi-Nashin (spiritual leader) of Dera Sachkhand Bal on 9 August 1994. He started with the development of all projects devoted to the service of humankind in right earnest and the Dera has made tremendous progress under his guidance.\n\nDera Sach Khand Ballan is a Ravidassia organization. Many followers of the Dera Sach Khand are former lower caste Hindus and Sikhs. \nIt was founded by devotees of Shri Guru Ravidas.\nIn May 2009 armed assailants were reported to have attacked Guru Ravidass temple in Vienna, Austria, seriously injuring the head of the Dera Sach Khand and killing another leader, Sant Ramanand. \n\nNews of the attack on the temple triggered riots in Punjab, and across northern India.\n\nSant Ramanand (From 1952 to 2009)\n\nSome unique personalities take birth in this wonderful world who become immortal through their great deeds in service of society. However true saints are beacon of enlightenment for entire humanity. Divisions based on country borders, colour, caste and creed are meaningless for them. Saints are like dense shade of banyan providing shelter and solace through cool westerly breeze against extreme heat generated by misdeeds of human beings.\n\nSant Rama Nand’s father Shri Mehnga Ram and other ancestors, who were devotees of Dera Sachkhand Ballan, migrated from village Ballan during 1910-15 to settle down at village Alawalpur, district Jalandhar. Nature finds unique ways to create new historic events. Something similar happened in the lives of this family. Leading a normal married life, Shri Mehnga Ram and Bibi Jeet Kaur never thought that they would be blessed with a son who would unite the entire depressed community like beads of a rossary and play a marvelous role in bringing all round glory to a place of worship Dera Sachkhand Ballan known to the whole world which future generations shall always be really proud of. Because of untiring efforts of Sat Guru Swami Niranjan Dass and Sant Rama Nand, now Dera Sachkhand Ballan is known as Mecca for all humanity and especially for dalits. It has always been the motto of present spiritual leaders to understand and appreciated the great legacy of past spiritual leaders and move forwards on the foot prints left by them.\n\nShri 108 Sant Rama Nand was born on 2 February 1952 in the house of blessed parents Shri Mehnga Ram and Shrimati Jeet Kaur. He was of saintly nature from the very birth. His charming looks created a captivating spell on the people of the locality. He completed his graduation from Doaba College, Jalandhar. He invariably used to be in deep thoughts as a student. He liked company of saints from his childhood which had to lead him to divine enlightenment because of his devotion. Some members of the family started strong opposition demanding that Rama Nand should be kept away from the company of saints. There were frequent religious discourse in the house. Sant Rama Nand used to pray to God every moment in meditation even while carrying out domestic work. Ultimately, Rama Nand was at service of the sacred feet of Shri 108 Sant Hari Dass, Dera Sachkhand, Ballan. He was blessed with ‘Naamdaan’ by Shri 108 Sant Hari Dass. Sant Rama Nand continued meditation of God while staying in the beautiful temple built in memory of Baba Pipal Dass at village Ballan from 1973 onwards. Sant Rama Nand remained in service of the devotees and conducted religious discourses singing devotional hymns daily during the lifetimes of Brahamlin Shri 108 Sant Hari Dass and Shri 108 Sant Garib Dass.\n\nIt is worth elaboration here that Sant Rama Nand received ‘Naamdaan’ from Shri 108 Sant Hari Dass and he was initiated as a saint by Shri 108 Sant Garib Dass. He also had the good fortune of travelling with the latter to several countries for preaching and spread of teaching of Shri Guru Ravidass. Latter he visited several countries under the directions of present spiritual head Shri 108 Sant Niranjan Dass and helped construction of many temples and linking devotees in foreign countries with the preaching of Shri Guru Ravidass. He endeared himself amongst all foreign devotees. Devotees were left spell bound after listening to the sweet melodies of his spiritual discourses.\n\nHe was an able administrator who managed the affairs of Dera in an elegant manner. While preaching and spreading the teachings of Shri Guru Ravidass through congregation of saints throughout the world, he always played leading role in carrying out the various tasks in the service of humanity under many charitable projects run by Dera Sachkhand Ballan. He provided praise-worthy services as Editor of ‘Begampura Shaher’ published by Dera Sachkhand Ballan for which he was honored by Dalit Literary Academy with a prestigious award. It was for the first time when he created history delivering his speech about Shri Guru Ravidass at the House of Commons in United Kingdom. He was a great scholar of Gurbani and expert in explaining complicated details of same through extremely simple examples. Whenever he rendered hymns accompanied by spiritual music, all devotees present at the site remained spell bound.\n\nNot only he established Shri Guru Ravidass Sangeet Academy at Dera Sachkhand Ballan but his visionary instincts could identified many talented missionary singers, poets and writers who were honored with gold medals. Jalandhar Doordarshan telecasts programmes named \"Amritbani Shri Guru Ravidass\" and \"Begampura Shahar Ka Nao\" rendered in his captivating voice.\n\nSant Rama Nand made very special contribution to the construction of buildings of various institutions being run by Dera Sachkhand Ballan.\n\nBegumpura Shehr is a Punjabi-English-Hindi trilingual, when Sant Garib Dass became Gaddi-Nashin (Leader) of Dera Sachkhand Ballan on 7 February 1982. The great Saint also understood the importance of having a newspaper, therefore Maharaj started a newspaper named \"Begumpura Shaher\" in 1991.\n\nSant Surinder Dass Bawa is the Chief Editor of \"Begumpura\" Shaher and had founder editor Shaheed Sant Ramanand Dass.\n\nSome of the developments which took place during this period are as follows:-\n\n\nThey were instrumental in bringing social consciousness among the Dalits of Punjab (Juergensmeyer,1988:84-85). Mangu Ram Mugowalia, the founder of the Ad-Dharmi movement, visited the Dera Ballan and sought its support in popularizing the image of Guru Ravidass among\nthe Dalits of Punjab (Juergensmeyer, 1988:85). The association of the Dera with the Ad Dharm movement becomes further clear from the fact that Sant Sarwan Dass, the then head of the Dera Ballan (11 October 1928 – 11 June 1972), offered juice to Mangoo Ram to open his fast-unto-death undertaken by him as a counter measure to that of Mahatama Gandhi‟s against the Communal Award in\n1932 (Bawa, 2004:6). Although this movement petered out after the first general election in independent India, \"…Deras such as that of Sarwan Das remain popular destinations for pilgrimage in the Punjab\" (Juergensmeyer, 1988:85).\nDera Ballan also hosted the mammoth Dalit conference (13 December 1970) organised by Mangu Ram Jaspal, namesake of the famous Mangoo Ram, to revive the Ad-Dharmi movement.32 It was during this conference that the legendary Mangoo Ram and many other prominent leaders of the Ad-Dharmi movement commended the contribution of Sants of Dera Ballan towards the emancipation and empowerment of Dalits. Sant Sarwan Dass also met Dr. B.R. Ambedkar in 1948 in Delhi at his residence and encouraged him to fight\ncontinuously for the emancipation of the downtrodden. During Dr. Ambedkar‟s visit to Punjab in 1951, Sant Sarwan Dass sent a message wishing him success in his struggle for the emancipation of the Dalits (Bawa, 2004:6).\n\nOriginally, the holy book Granth Sahib was recited in Ravidassia gurudwaras. However, after the Vienna attack, Sant Samaj and Ravidassia Community and Dera Sach Khand at Ballan did away with the tradition, and started reading Amritbani Guru Ravidass that contains 240 hymns by Guru Ravidass from the teachings of Guru Ravidass, and some of which can also be found in the Granth Sahib.\n\nIn 2010 the Dera formally proclaimed their religion as Ravidassia Religion at Seer Govardhanpur in Varanasi, the birthplace of Guru Ravidass. The holy book Amritbani Sri Guru Ravidass was also introduced and Ravidassia religion has the Har symbol and greeting as Jai Gurudev.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18019317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18019317", "title": "Early–Hasley feud", "text": "Early–Hasley feud\n\nThe Early–Hasley Feud (1865–1869) was a family feud that took place immediately following the Civil War, in Bell County, Texas. The two main antagonists were John Early and Samual Hasley.\n\nThe Early and Hasley families seemingly had no problems prior to the outbreak of the Civil War. However, while most of the Hasley men were off at war fighting with the Confederate forces, John Early served in the Texas Home Guard, which had been formed to protect the home-front while younger men were away fighting. By most accounts, Early abused this power, often using his authority to take advantage of people. One of those he abused was an old man named Drew Hasley, the father of Samual.\n\nWhen Hasley's son, Samual, returned home after the end of the war, he became enraged after hearing of the abuse his father had suffered. To make matters worse, Early had begun to ally himself with the Reconstruction forces, which were then occupying Texas. When the younger Hasley made it known he was looking for Early, the latter went into hiding. When it was necessary for him to venture out, Early would constantly stay in the company of the soldiers he'd befriended.\n\nThe feud was relatively low in violence, with opposing parties mostly stealing from one another. The Early and Hasley factions were, however, involved in several shootouts, resulting in two deaths. The first victim of the feud was outlaw and Hasley supporter, Jim McRae, who was killed in mid-1869. The other victim was an Early supporter, Dr. Calvin Clark, who was pursued into Arkansas and killed by Hasley later that same year. Following the killing of Dr. Clark, the feud fizzled out.\n\nHasley continued living in the area, and became involved in numerous outlaw acts in defiance of the occupying Reconstructionist forces. In the fall of 1889, while in Belton, town Deputy Marshal William \"Cap\" Light confronted Hasley over a disturbance Hasley was causing while drunk. Light ordered him to go home and sober up. Instead, Hasley mounted a horse, and rode it up on the sidewalk. Light attempted to arrest him, and Hasley pulled his pistol. Light shot Hasley, killing him.\n\nList of feuds in the United States\n\n"}
{"id": "37872528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37872528", "title": "Economy for the Common Good", "text": "Economy for the Common Good\n\nEconomy for the Common Good is a social movement advocating for an alternative economic model. It calls for working towards the common good and cooperation as value above profit-orientation and competition which leads to greed and uncontrolled growth. Christian Felber coined the term in his book \"Die Gemeinwohl-Ökonomie - Das Wirtschaftsmodell der Zukunft\", published in 2010. According to Felber, it makes much more sense for companies to create a so-called \"common good balance sheet\" than a financial balance sheet. The common good balance sheet shows the extent to which a company abides by values like human dignity, solidarity and economic sustainability.\n\nEconomy for the Common Good calls for reevaluating economic relations by, for example, putting limits on financial speculation and encouraging companies to produce socially-responsible products.\n\nOver 1200 companies actively support the concept of Economy for the Common Good and a few hundred of them have committed to creating the common good balance sheet. These include Sparda-Bank Munich, the Rhomberg Group and Vaude Outdoor. According to proponents of the movement, the success of a company should not be determined by how much profit it makes, but rather by the degree to which it contributes to the common good.\nCompanies receive more points in this balance sheet when, for example, employees are satisfied with their jobs or when the top managers do not receive exorbitantly more than the lowest paid worker.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "190831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190831", "title": "Electronic publishing", "text": "Electronic publishing\n\n🧧🧧🧧Electronic publishing (also referred to as e-publishing or digital publishing or online publishing) includes the digital publication of e-books, digital magazines, and the development of digital libraries and catalogues. It also includes an editorial aspect, that consists of editing books, journals or magazines that are mostly destined to be read on a screen (computer, e-reader, tablet, smartphone).\n\nElectronic publishing has become common in scientific publishing where it has been argued that peer-reviewed scientific journals are in the process of being replaced by electronic publishing. It is also becoming common to distribute books, magazines, and newspapers to consumers through tablet reading devices, a market that is growing by millions each year, generated by online vendors such as Apple's iTunes bookstore, Amazon's bookstore for Kindle, and books in the Google Play Bookstore. Market research suggests that half of all magazine and newspaper circulation will be via digital delivery by the end of 2015 and that half of all reading in the United States will be done without paper by 2015.\n\nAlthough distribution via the Internet (also known as online publishing or web publishing when in the form of a website) is nowadays strongly associated with electronic publishing, there are many non-network electronic publications such as encyclopedias on CD and DVD, as well as technical and reference publications relied on by mobile users ,and others without reliable and high speed access to a network. Electronic publishing is also being used in the field of test-preparation in developed as well as in developing economies for student education (thus partly replacing conventional books) - for it enables content and analytics combined - for the benefit of students. The use of electronic publishing for textbooks may become more prevalent with iBooks from Apple Inc. and Apple's negotiation with the three largest textbook suppliers in the U.S. \n\nElectronic publishing is increasingly popular in works of fiction. Electronic publishers are able to respond quickly to changing market demand, because the companies do not have to order printed books and have them delivered. E-publishing is also making a wider range of books available, including books that customers would not find in standard book retailers, due to insufficient demand for a traditional \"print run\". E-publication is enabling new authors to release books that would be unlikely to be profitable for traditional publishers. While the term \"electronic publishing\" is primarily used in the 2010s to refer to online and web-based publishers, the term has a history of being used to describe the development of new forms of production, distribution, and user interaction in regard to computer-based production of text and other interactive media.\n\nThe first digitization initiative was in 1971 in the United States, by Michael S. Hart. He was a student at the University of Illinois, and decided to launch the Project Gutenberg. The project was about making literature more accessible to everyone, through internet. It took a while to develop, and in 1989 there were only 10 texts that were manually recopied on computer by Michael S. Hart himself and some volunteers. But with the appearance of the Web 1.0 in 1991 and its ability to connect documents together through static pages, the project moved quickly forward. Many more volunteers helped developing the project by giving access to public domain classics.\n\nIn the 1970's, CNRS digitized 1 000 books from diverse subjects, mostly literature but also philosophy and science, from the 1180's to present times, as to build the foundations of a big dictionary, the \"Trésor de la langue Française\". This foundation of e-texts, named Frantext, was first published on CD under the name of \"Discotext\", and then published on the web in 1998. The Frantext is always enhanced, and in 2016 they registered 4 516 texts. \n\nIn 1974, Raymond Kurzweil developed a scanner that was equipped with an Omnifont software that enabled optical character recognition for numeric inputs. The digitization projects could then be a lot more ambitious since the time needed for digitization decreased considerably, and digital libraries are be on the rise. All over the world, e-libraries start to emerge.\n\nThe ABU (\"Association des Bibliophiles Universels)\", was a public digital library project created by the Cnam in 1993. It was the first french digital library in the network; suspended since 2002, they reproduced over a hundred texts that are still available. \n\nIn 1992, the Bibliothèque nationale de France launched a vast digitization program. The president François Mitterrand wanted since 1988 to create a new and innovative digital library, and it was published in 1997 under the name of Gallica. In 2014, the digital library was offering 80 255 online books and over a million documents, including prints and manuscripts. \n\nIn 2003, Wikisource was launched, and the project aspired to constitute a digital and multilingual library that would be a complement to the Wikipedia project. It was originally named \"Project Sourceberg\", as a word play to remind the Project Gutenberg. Supported by the Wikimedia Foundation, Wikisource proposes digitized texts that have been verified by volunteers. \n\nIn December 2004, Google created Google Books, a project to digitize all the books available in the word (over 130 million books) to make them accessible online. 10 years later, 25 000 000 books, from a hundred countries and in 400 languages, are on the platform. This was possible because at this time, robotic scanners can digitize around 6 000 books per hour.\n\nIn 2008, the prototype of Europeana was launched; and by 2010, the project had been giving access to over 10 million digital objects. The Europeana library is a European catalog that offers index cards on millions of digital objects and links to their digital libraries. In the same year, HathiTrust was created to put together the contents of many university e-libraries from USA and Europe, as well as Google Books and Internet Archive. In 2016, over six millions of users had been using HathiTrust. \n\nThe first digitization projects were transferring physical content into digital content. Electronic publishing is aiming to integrate the whole process of editing and publishing (production, layout, publication) in the digital world.\n\nAlain Mille, in the book \"Pratiques de l'édition numérique\" (edited by Michael E. Sinatra and Marcello Vitali-Rosati), says that the beginnings of Internet and the Web are the very core of electronic publishing, since they pretty much determined the biggest changes in the production and diffusion patterns. Internet has a direct effect on the publishing questions, letting creators and users go further in the traditional process (writer-editor-publishing house). \n\nThe traditional publishing, and especially the creation part, were first revolutionized by new desktop publishing softwares appearing in the 1980's, and by the text databases created for the encyclopedias and directories. At the same time the multimedia was developing quickly, combining book, audiovisual and computer science characteristics. CDs and DVDs appear, permitting the visualization of these dictionaries and encyclopedias on computers. \n\nThe arrival and democratization of Internet is slowly giving small publishing houses the opportunity to publish their books directly online. Some websites, like Amazon, let their users buy eBooks; Internet users can also find many educative platforms (free or not), encyclopedic websites like Wikipedia, and even digital magazines platforms. The eBook then becomes more and more accessible through many different supports, like the e-reader and even smartphones. The digital book had, and still has, an important impact on publishing houses and their economical models; it is still a moving domain, and they yet have to master the new ways of publishing in a digital era. \n\nBased on new communications practices of the web 2.0 and the new architecture of participation, online edition opens the door to a collaboration of a community to elaborate and improve contents on Internet, while also enriching reading through collective reading practices. The web 2.0 not only links documents together, as did the web 1.0, it also links people together through social media: that's why it's called the Participative (or participatory) Web. \n\nMany tools were put in place to foster sharing and creative collective contents. One of the many is the Wikipedia encyclopedia, since it is edited, corrected and enhanced by millions of contributors. Open Street Map is also based on the same principle. Blogs and comment systems are also now renown as online edition and publishing, since it is possible through new interactions between the author and its readers, and can be an important method for inspiration but also for visibility.\n\nThe electronic publishing process follows some aspects of the traditional paper-based publishing process but differs from traditional publishing in two ways: 1) it does not include using an offset printing press to print the final product and 2) it avoids the distribution of a physical product (e.g., paper books, paper magazines, or paper newspapers). Because the content is electronic, it may be distributed over the Internet and through electronic bookstores, and users can read the material on a range of electronic and digital devices, including desktop computers, laptops, tablet computers, smartphones or e-reader tablets. The consumer may read the published content online a website, in an application on a tablet device, or in a PDF document on a computer. In some cases, the reader may print the content onto paper using a consumer-grade ink-jet or laser printer or via a print on demand system. Some users download digital content to their devices, enabling them to read the content even when their device is not connected to the Internet (e.g., on an airplane flight).\n\nDistributing content electronically as software applications (\"apps\") has become popular in the 2010s, due to the rapid consumer adoption of smartphones and tablets. At first, native apps for each mobile platform were required to reach all audiences, but in an effort toward universal device compatibility, attention has turned to using HTML5 to create web apps that can run on any browser and function on many devices. The benefit of electronic publishing comes from using three attributes of digital technology: XML tags to define content, style sheets to define the look of content, and metadata (data about data) to describe the content for search engines, thus helping users to find and locate the content (a common example of metadata is the information about a song's songwriter, composer, genre that is electronically encoded along with most CDs and digital audio files; this metadata makes it easier for music lovers to find the songs they are looking for). With the use of tags, style sheets, and metadata, this enables \"reflowable\" content that adapts to various reading devices (tablet, smartphone, e-reader, etc.) or electronic delivery methods.\n\nBecause electronic publishing often requires text mark-up (e.g., Hyper Text Markup Language or some other markup language) to develop online delivery methods, the traditional roles of typesetters and book designers, who created the printing set-ups for paper books, have changed. Designers of digitally published content must have a strong knowledge of mark-up languages, the variety of reading devices and computers available, and the ways in which consumers read, view or access the content. However, in the 2010s, new user friendly design software is becoming available for designers to publish content in this standard without needing to know detailed programming techniques, such as Adobe Systems' Digital Publishing Suite and Apple's iBooks Author. The most common file format is .epub, used in many e-book formats. .epub is a free and open standard available in many publishing programs. Another common format is .folio, which is used by the Adobe Digital Publishing Suite to create content for Apple's iPad tablets and apps.\n\nAfter an article is submitted to an academic journal for consideration, there can be a delay ranging from several months to more than two years before it is published in a journal, rendering journals a less than ideal format for disseminating current research. In some fields such as astronomy and some areas of physics, the role of the journal in disseminating the latest research has largely been replaced by preprint repositories such as arXiv.org. However, scholarly journals still play an important role in quality control and establishing scientific credit. In many instances, the electronic materials uploaded to preprint repositories are still intended for eventual publication in a peer-reviewed journal. There is statistical evidence that electronic publishing provides wider dissemination, because when a journal is available online, a larger number of researchers can access the journal. Even if a professor is working in a university that does not have a certain journal in its library, she may still be able to access the journal online. A number of journals have, while retaining their longstanding peer review process to ensure that the research is done properly, established electronic versions or even moved entirely to electronic publication.\n\nIn the early 2000s, many of the existing copyright laws were designed around printed books, magazines and newspapers. For example, copyright laws often set limits on how much of a book can be mechanically reproduced or copied. Electronic publishing raises new questions in relation to copyright, because if an e-book or e-journal is available online, millions of Internet users may be able to view a single electronic copy of the document, without any \"copies\" being made. \n\nEmerging evidence suggests that e-publishing may be more collaborative than traditional paper-based publishing; e-publishing often involves more than one author, and the resulting works are more accessible, since they are published online. At the same time, the availability of published material online opens more doors for plagiarism, unauthorized use, or re-use of the material. Some publishers are trying to address these concerns. For example, in 2011, HarperCollins limited the number of times that one of its e-books could be lent in a public library. Other publishers, such as Penguin, are attempting to incorporate e-book elements into their regular paper publications.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "588490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588490", "title": "Ernest Bloch", "text": "Ernest Bloch\n\nErnest Bloch (July 24, 1880 – July 15, 1959) was a Swiss-born American composer. Bloch was a pre-eminent artist in his day and left a lasting legacy. He is recognised as one of the greatest Swiss composers in history. As well as producing musical scores, Bloch had an academic career that culminated in his recognition as Professor Emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley in 1952.\n\nBloch was born in Geneva on July 24, 1880 to Jewish parents. He began playing the violin at age 9. He began composing soon after. He studied music at the conservatory in Brussels, where his teachers included the celebrated Belgian violinist Eugène Ysaÿe. He then travelled around Europe, moving to Germany (where he studied composition from 1900–1901 with Iwan Knorr at the Hoch Conservatory in Frankfurt), on to Paris in 1903 and back to Geneva before settling in the United States in 1916, taking US citizenship in 1924. He held several teaching appointments in the USA with George Antheil, Frederick Jacobi, Quincy Porter, Bernard Rogers, and Roger Sessions among his pupils. \n\nIn 1917, Bloch became the first teacher of composition at Mannes School of Music, a post he held for three years. In December 1920 he was appointed the first Musical Director of the newly formed Cleveland Institute of Music, a post he held until 1925. Following this he was director of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music until 1930. He spent most of the following decade in Switzerland where he composed his Avodath Hakodesh (\"Sacred Service\") before returning to the USA in 1939.\nIn 1941, Bloch moved to the small coastal community of Agate Beach, Oregon and lived there the rest of his life. He taught and lectured (mostly summers) at the University of California, Berkeley until 1951. In 1952 he is named \"Professeur Eméritus de l'Université de Berkeley,\" even though he was not a full-time professor.\n\nHe died on July 15, 1959 in Portland, Oregon, of cancer at the age of 78. In keeping with a special tradition, Lucienne Bloch and her husband, Steve Dimitroff, prepared several death masks of Ernest Bloch. This once-common practice was usually undertaken to create a memento or portrait of the deceased, but it is unusual for an immediate family member to make the death mask. The Center for Creative Photography and the San Francisco Conservatory of Music each have a copy of Bloch's death mask. His body was cremated and his ashes were scattered near his home in Agate Beach.\n\nBloch's musical style does not fit easily into any of the usual categories; he studied variously with Jaques-Dalcroze, Iwan Knorr and Ludwig Thuille, as well as corresponding with Mahler and meeting Debussy. Many of his works - as can be seen from their Hebrew-inspired titles - also draw heavily on his Jewish heritage. Bloch's father had at one stage intended to become a rabbi, and the young Ernest had a strong religious upbringing; as an adult he felt that to write music that expressed his Jewish identity was \"the only way in which I can produce music of vitality and significance\".\n\nThe music of Bloch uses a variety of contemporary harmonic devices. These are enumerated in Vincent Persichetti’s book Twentieth Century Harmony.\nAccording to Persichetti, these include the use of the Dorian mode and of harmony with extensive alterations in his Concerto Grosso No. 1, tone clusters in his Piano Sonata No. 1, the percussive use of harmony, as well as serial harmony, in his Piano Quintet.\n\nErnest Bloch and his wife Marguerite Schneider had three children: Ivan, Suzanne and Lucienne.\n\nIvan, born in 1905, became an engineer with the Bonneville Power Administration in Portland, Oregon.\n\nSuzanne Bloch, born in 1907, was a musician particularly interested in Renaissance music who taught harpsichord, lute and composition at the Juilliard School in New York.\n\nLucienne Bloch, born in 1909, worked as Diego Rivera's chief photographer on the Rockefeller Center mural project, became friends with Rivera's wife, the artist Frida Kahlo, and took some key photos of Kahlo and the only photographs of Rivera's mural (which was destroyed because Lenin was depicted in it).\n\nThe Western Jewish History Center, of the Judah L. Magnes Museum, in Berkeley, California has a small collection of photographs taken by Ernest Bloch which document his interest in photography.\n\nBloch's photography was discovered by Eric B. Johnson in 1970. With the encouragement of Bloch's children, Johnson edited and printed hundreds of his photographs.\n\nMany of the photographs Bloch took—over 6,000 negatives and 2,000 prints many printed by Eric Johnson from the original negatives—are in the Ernest Bloch Archive at the Center for Creative Photography at the University of Arizona in Tucson along with photographs by the likes of Ansel Adams, Edward Weston and Richard Avedon.\n\nSome of the pictures that Bloch took in his are visible online. The snapshots have been donated to the Archivio audiovisivo di Capriasca e Val Colla by the Associazione ricerche musicali nella Svizzera italiana.\n\nThe Bloch Memorial, which was dedicated by Oregon Governor Bob Straub with Ernest Bloch's three children at his side on April 10, 1976, was moved from near his house in Agate Beach to a more prominent location in front of the Newport Performing Arts Center in Newport, Oregon. In 2009, the City of Newport City Council designated a street in Newport as Ernest Bloch Place. In 2016, the Oregon Department of Transportation Board of Commissioners officially designated the Ernest Bloch Memorial Wayside in the area of Agate Beach where the original Ernest Bloch Memorial was dedicated in 1976. The Ernest Bloch Memorial Wayside and Monument will be formally dedicated in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "667850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=667850", "title": "Finns", "text": "Finns\n\nFinns or Finnish people () are a Finnic ethnic group native to Finland.\n\nFinns are traditionally divided into smaller regional groups that span several countries adjacent to Finland, both those who are native to these countries as well as those who have resettled. Also, some of these may be classified as separate ethnic groups, rather than subgroups of Finns. These include the Kvens and Forest Finns in Norway, the Tornedalians in Sweden, and the Ingrian Finns in Russia.\n\nFinnish, the language spoken by most Finnic people, is closely related to other Finnic languages, e.g. Estonian and Karelian. The Finnic languages are a subgroup of the larger Uralic family of languages, which also includes Hungarian. These languages are markedly different from most other languages spoken in Europe, which belong to the Indo-European family of languages. Native Finns can also be divided according to dialect into subgroups sometimes called \"heimo\" (lit. \"tribe\"), although such divisions have become less important due to internal migration.\n\nToday, there are approximately 6–7 million ethnic Finns and their descendants worldwide, with majority of them living in their native Finland and the surrounding countries, namely Sweden, Russia and Norway. Overseas Finnish diaspora has long been established in the countries of the Americas and Oceania, with the population of primarily immigrant background, namely Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United States.\n\nThe Population Register Centre maintains information on the birthplace, citizenship and mother tongue of the people living in Finland, but does not specifically categorize any as Finns by ethnicity.\n\nThe majority of people living in the Republic of Finland consider Finnish to be their first language. According to Statistics Finland, of the country's total population of 5,503,297 at the end of 2016, 88.3% (or 4,857,795) considered Finnish to be their native language. It is not known how many of the ethnic Finns living outside Finland speak Finnish as their first language.\n\nIn addition to the Finnish-speaking inhabitants of Finland, the Kvens (people of Finnish descent in Norway), the Tornedalians (people of Finnish descent in northernmost Sweden), and the Karelians in the historic Finnish province of Karelia and Evangelical Lutheran Ingrian Finns (both in the northwestern Russian Federation), as well as Finnish expatriates in various countries, are Finnic people.\n\nFinns have been traditionally divided into sub-groups (\"heimot\" in Finnish) along regional, dialectical or ethnographical lines. These subgroups include the people of Finland Proper (\"varsinaissuomalaiset\"), Satakunta (\"satakuntalaiset\"), Tavastia (\"hämäläiset\"), Savo (\"savolaiset\"), Karelia (\"karjalaiset\") and Ostrobothnia (\"pohjalaiset\"). These sub-groups express regional self-identity with varying frequency and significance.\n\nThere are a number of distinct dialects (\"murre\" s. \"murteet\" pl. in Finnish) of the Finnish language spoken in Finland, although the exclusive use of the standard Finnish (\"yleiskieli\")—both in its formal written (kirjakieli) and more casual spoken (puhekieli) form—in Finnish schools, in the media, and in popular culture, along with internal migration and urbanization, have considerably diminished the use of regional varieties, especially since the middle of the 20th century. Historically, there were three dialects: the South-Western (\"Lounaismurteet\"), Tavastian (\"Hämeen murre\"), and Karelian (\"Karjalan murre\"). These and neighboring languages mixed with each other in various ways as the population spread out, and evolved into the Southern Ostrobothnian (\"Etelä-Pohjanmaan murre\"), Central Ostrobothnian (\"Keski-Pohjanmaan murre\"), Northern Ostrobothnian (\"Pohjois-Pohjanmaan murre\"), Far-Northern (\"Peräpohjolan murre\"), Savonian (\"Savon murre\"), and South-Eastern (\"Kaakkois-Suomen murteet\") aka South Karelian (\"Karjalan murre\") dialects.\n\nThe Sweden Finns are either native to Sweden or have emigrated from Finland to Sweden. An estimated 450,000 first- or second-generation immigrants from Finland live in Sweden, of which approximately half speak Finnish. The majority moved from Finland to Sweden following the Second World War, taking advantage of the rapidly expanding Swedish economy. This emigration peaked in 1970 and has been declining since. There is also a native Finnish-speaking minority in Sweden, the Tornedalians in the border area in the extreme north of Sweden. The Finnish language has official status as one of five minority languages in Sweden, but only in the five northernmost municipalities in Sweden.\n\nThe term Finns is also used for other Finnic peoples, including Izhorians in Ingria, Karelians in Karelia and Veps in the former Veps National Volost, all in Russia. Among these groups, the Karelians is the most populous one, followed by the Ingrians. According to a 2002 census, it was found that Ingrians also identify with Finnish ethnic identity, referring to themselves as Ingrian Finns.\n\nThe Finnish term for Finns is \"suomalaiset\" (sing. \"suomalainen\").\n\nIt is a matter of debate how best to designate the Finnish-speakers of Sweden, all of whom have migrated to Sweden from Finland. Terms used include \"Sweden Finns\" and \"Finnish Swedes\", with a distinction almost always made between more recent Finnish immigrants, most of whom have arrived after World War II, and Tornedalians, who have lived along what is now the Swedish-Finnish border since the 15th century. The term \"Finn\" occasionally also has the meaning \"a member of a people speaking Finnish or a Finnic language\".\n\nHistorical references to Northern Europe are scarce, and the names given to its peoples and geographic regions are obscure; therefore, the etymologies of the names are questionable. Such names as \"Fenni\", \"Phinnoi\", \"Finnum\", and \"Skrithfinni\" / \"Scridefinnum\" appear in a few written texts starting from about two millennia ago in association with peoples located in a northern part of Europe, but the real meaning of these terms is debatable. The earliest mentions of this kind are usually interpreted to have meant Fennoscandian hunter-gatherers whose closest successors in modern terms would be the Sami people. It has been suggested that this non-Uralic ethnonym is of Germanic language origin and related to such words as \"finthan\" (Old High German) 'find', 'notice'; \"fanthian\" (Old High German) 'check', 'try'; and \"fendo\" (Old High German) and \"vende\" (Old Middle German) 'pedestrian', 'wanderer'. Another etymological interpretation associates this ethnonym with \"fen\" in a more toponymical approach. Yet another theory postulates that the words \"finn\" and \"kven\" are cognates. The Icelandic Eddas and Norse sagas (11th to 14th centuries), some of the oldest written sources probably originating from the closest proximity, use words like \"finnr\" and \"finnas\" inconsistently. However, most of the time they seem to mean northern dwellers with a mobile life style. An etymological link between the Sami and the Finns exists in modern Uralic languages as well. It has been proposed that e.g. the toponyms \"Sápmi\" (Sami for Lapland), \"Suomi\" (Finnish for Finland), and \"Häme\" (Finnish for Tavastia) are of the same origin, the source of which might be related to the proto-Baltic word \"*žeme\" / Slavic \"земля (zemlja)\" meaning 'land'. It has been proposed that these designations started to mean specifically people in Southwestern Finland (Finland Proper, Varsinais-Suomi) and later the whole area of modern Finland. But it is not known how, why, and when this occurred. Petri Kallio has suggested that the name \"Suomi\" may bear even earlier Indo-European echoes with the original meaning of either \"land\" or \"human\".\n\nThe first known mention of Finns is in the Old English poem Widsith which was compiled in the 10th century, though its contents is probably older. Among the first written sources possibly designating western Finland as the land of Finns are also two rune stones. One of these is in Söderby, Sweden, with the inscription \"finlont\" (U 582), and the other is in Gotland, a Swedish island in the Baltic Sea, with the inscription \"finlandi\" (G 319 M) dating from the 11th century.\n\nWith regard to the ancestry of the Finnish people, the modern view emphasizes the overall continuity in Finland's archeological finds and (earlier more obvious) linguistic surroundings. Archeological data suggest the spreading of at least cultural influences from many sources ranging from the south-east to the south-west following gradual developments rather than clear-cut migrations.\n\nJust as uncertain are the possible mediators and the timelines for the development of the Uralic majority language of the Finns. On the basis of comparative linguistics, it has been suggested that the separation of the Finnic and the Sami languages took place during the 2nd millennium BC, and that the Proto-Uralic roots of the entire language group date from about the 6th to the 8th millennium BC. When the Uralic languages were first spoken in the area of contemporary Finland is debated. It is thought that Proto-Finnic (the proto-language of the Finnic languages) was not spoken in modern Finland, because the maximum divergence of the daughter languages occurs in modern-day Estonia. Therefore, Finnish was already a separate language when arriving in Finland. Furthermore, the traditional Finnish lexicon has a large number of words (about one-third) without a known etymology, hinting at the existence of a disappeared Paleo-European language; these include toponyms such as \"niemi\" \"peninsula\". Because the Finnish language itself reached a written form only in the 16th century, little primary data remains of early Finnish life. For example, the origins of such cultural icons as the sauna, the kantele (an instrument of the zither family), and the \"Kalevala\" (national epic) have remained rather obscure.\n\nAgriculture supplemented by fishing and hunting has been the traditional livelihood among Finns. Slash-and-burn agriculture was practiced in the forest-covered east by Eastern Finns up to the 19th century. Agriculture, along with the language, distinguishes Finns from the Sami, who retained the hunter-gatherer lifestyle longer and moved to coastal fishing and reindeer herding. Following industrialization and modernization of Finland, most Finns were urbanized and employed in modern service and manufacturing occupations, with agriculture becoming a minor employer (see Economy of Finland).\n\nChristianity spread to Finland from the Medieval times onward and original native traditions of Finnish paganism have become extinct. Finnish paganism combined various layers of Finnic, Norse, Germanic and Baltic paganism. Finnic \"Jumala\" was some sort of sky-god and is shared with Estonia. Belief of a thunder-god, Ukko or Perkele, may have Baltic origins. Elements had their own protectors, such as Ahti for waterways and Tapio for forests. Local animistic deities, \"haltia\", which resemble Scandinavian tomte, were also given offerings to, and bear worship was also known. Finnish neopaganism or \"suomenusko\" attempts to revive these traditions, which however had a break, and has not attracted a significant number of followers. \n\nChristianity was introduced to Finns and Karelians from the east, in the form of Eastern Orthodoxy from the Medieval times onwards. However, Swedish kings conquered western parts of Finland in the late 13th century, imposing Roman Catholicism. Reformation in Sweden had the important effect that bishop Mikael Agricola, a student of Martin Luther, introduced written Finnish, and literacy became common during the 18th century. When Finland became independent, it was overwhelmingly Lutheran Protestant. A small number of Eastern Orthodox Finns were also included, thus the Finnish government recognized both religions as \"national religions\". In 2017 70.9% of the population of Finland belonged to the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland, 1.1% to the Finnish Orthodox Church, 1.6% to other religious groups and 26.3% had no religious affiliation (see irreligion in Finland). Whereas, in Russian Ingria, there were both Lutheran and Orthodox Finns; the former were identified as Ingrian Finns while the latter were considered Izhorans or Karelians.\n\nFinnic people are traditionally assumed to originate from two different populations speaking different dialects of Proto-Finnic (\"kantasuomi\"). Thus, a division into West Finnish and East Finnish is made. Further, there are subgroups, traditionally called \"heimo\", according to dialects and local culture. Although ostensibly based on late Iron Age settlement patterns, the heimos have been constructed according to dialect during the rise of nationalism in the 19th century.\n\n\nThe historical provinces of Finland can be seen to approximate some of these divisions. The regions of Finland, another remnant of a past governing system, can be seen to reflect a further manifestation of a local identity.\n\nToday's (urbanized) Finns are not usually aware of the concept of 'heimo' nor do they typically identify with one (except maybe Southern Ostrobothnians), although the use of dialects has experienced a recent revival. Urbanized Finns do not necessarily know a particular dialect and tend to use standard Finnish or city slang but they may switch to a dialect when visiting their native area.\n\nRecently, the use of mitochondrial \"mtDNA\" (female lineage) and Y-chromosomal \"Y-DNA\" (male lineage) DNA-markers in tracing back the history of human populations has been started. For the paternal and maternal genetic lineages of Finnish people and other peoples, see, e.g., the National Geographic Genographic Project and the Suomi DNA-projekti. Haplogroup U5 is estimated to be the oldest mtDNA haplogroup in Europe and is found in the whole of Europe at a low frequency, but seems to be found in significantly higher levels among Finns, Estonians and the Sami people. \nThe original European hunter-gatherers that populated large parts of Europe before the early farmers appeared are outside the genetic variation of modern populations, but most similar to Finnish individuals.\n\nWith regard to the Y-chromosome, the most common haplogroups of the Finns are N1c (59%), I1a (28%), R1a (5%) and R1b (3.5%). Haplogroup N1c, which is found mainly in a few countries in Europe (Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Finland, Russia), is a subgroup of the haplogroup N (Y-DNA) distributed across northern Eurasia and estimated in a 2006 study to be 10,000–20,000 years old and suggested to have entered Europe about 12,000–14,000 years ago from Asia.\n\nVariation within Finns is, according to fixation index (F) values, greater than anywhere else in Europe. Greatest intra-Finnish F distance is found about 60, greatest intra-Swedish F distance about 25. F distances between for example Germans, French and Hungarians is only 10, and between Estonians, Russians and Poles it is also 10. Thus Finns from different parts of the country are more remote from each other genetically compared to many European peoples between themselves. The closest genetic relatives for Finns are Estonians (F to Helsinki 40 and to Kuusamo 90) and Swedes (F to Helsinki 50 and to Kuusamo 100). The F values given here are actual values multiplied by 10,000. The great intra-Finnish (F) distance between Western Finns and Eastern Finns supports the theorized dual origin of the Finns based on the regional distribution of the two major Y-DNA haplogroups, N1c in Eastern Finland and I1a in Western Finland.\n\nFinns show very little if any Mediterranean and African genes but on the other hand almost 10% of Finnish genes seem to be shared with Siberian populations. Nevertheless, more than 80% of Finnish genes are from a single ancient Northeastern European population, while most Europeans are a mixture of 3 or more principal components.\n\nIn the 19th century, the Finnish researcher Matthias Castrén prevailed with the theory that \"the original home of Finns\" was in west-central Siberia.\n\nUntil the 1970s, most linguists believed that Finns arrived in Finland as late as the first centuries AD. However, accumulating archaeological data suggests that the area of contemporary Finland had been inhabited continuously since the end of the ice age, contrary to the earlier idea that the area had experienced long uninhabited intervals. The hunter-gatherer Sami were pushed into the more remote northern regions.\n\nA hugely controversial theory is so-called \"refugia\". This was proposed in the 1990s by Kalevi Wiik, a professor emeritus of phonetics at the University of Turku. According to this theory, Finno-Ugric speakers spread north as the Ice age ended. They populated central and northern Europe, while Basque speakers populated western Europe. As agriculture spread from the southeast into Europe, the Indo-European languages spread among the hunter-gatherers. In this process, both the hunter-gatherers speaking Finno-Ugric and those speaking Basque learned how to cultivate land and \"became\" Indo-Europeanized. According to Wiik, this is how the Celtic, Germanic, Slavic, and Baltic languages were formed. The linguistic ancestors of modern Finns did not switch their language due to their isolated location. The main supporters of Wiik's theory are Professor Ago Künnap (Univ. of Tartu), Professor Kyösti Julku (Univ. of Oulu) and Associate Professor Angela Marcantonio (Univ. of Rome). Wiik has not presented his theories in peer-reviewed scientific publications. Many scholars in Finno-Ugrian studies have strongly criticized the theory. Professor Raimo Anttila, Petri Kallio and brothers Ante and Aslak Aikio have renounced Wiik's theory with strong words, hinting strongly to pseudoscience and even at right-wing political biases among Wiik's supporters. Moreover, some dismissed the entire idea of refugia, due to the existence even today of arctic and subarctic peoples. The most heated debate took place in the Finnish journal \"Kaltio\" during autumn 2002. Since then, the debate has calmed, each side retaining their positions. While the refugium theory proved unpopular among Finns, substantial genotype analyses across the greater European genetic landscape have mostly confirmed the Last Glacial Maximum refugiums to be correct and have substantial backing of the greater scientific community. However, this does not in any way corroborate or prove that these 'refugia' spoke Uralic/Finnic, as it belies wholly independent variables that are not necessarily coeval (i.e. language spreads and genetic expansions can occur independently, at different times and in different directions).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1007829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1007829", "title": "General electors", "text": "General electors\n\n\"General Electors\" is the term formerly used in Fiji to identify citizens of voting age who belonged, in most cases, to ethnic minorities. The 1997 Constitution defined General Electors as all Fiji citizens who were not registered as being of Fijian, Indian, or Rotuman descent. Also included were citizens who did qualify to be registered in the above categories, but who chose not to be. Persons of biracial or multiracial ancestry could opt to enroll either as General Electors, or as descendants of any of the other three groups to which they had an ancestral claim. General Electors were thus a diverse electorate, whose members included Europeans, Chinese, Banaban Islanders, and many smaller groups. They were allocated 3 seats in the House of Representatives, the lower and more influential house of the Fijian Parliament.\n\nThe 1997 Constitution of Fiji was a compromise between what it saw as the ideal of universal suffrage, and the practical reality of the need to protect the communal interests of Fiji's diverse ethnic communities. The House of Representatives reflected this compromise, with 46 members chosen for \"communal electorates\" by voters on closed electoral rolls comprising citizens of ethnic Fijian (23), Indo-Fijian (19), and Rotuman (1) ancestry, with a further 3 reserved for General Electors. Another 25 members were open to citizens of all races, and were elected by universal suffrage.\n\nOver the years, the exact definition of General Electors varied, as did their parliamentary representation. Prior to 1994, biracial and multiracial voters were also included automatically. That year, James Ah Koy, a popular politician of ethnic Fijian and Chinese descent, successfully lobbied for a law change to allow him to register as a Fijian, rather than as a General Elector. The 1997 Constitution codified this change, giving citizens of mixed ancestry multiple options for registration. (Citizens were allowed to register for only one category, but for a small fee could change their registration at any time).\n\nIn the transitional years of the 1960s, when the British colonial rulers were preparing Fiji for independence, General Electors were allocated 10 seats in the 40 member legislature. Seven of these were elected on a closed roll consisting only of General Electors; the remaining 3 were chosen by universal suffrage. The 1970 constitution, under which Fiji became independent, reduced their representation to 8 out of 52, of which 3 were elected on the closed roll and 5 by universal suffrage. At the constitutional conference in London in April 1970, the then-Prime Minister, Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara, strongly resisted pressure to reduce the General Electors' representation further, arguing that with the numbers of ethnic Fijians and Indo-Fijians so evenly balanced, they needed the minorities as a buffer between them. Politics may have been a factor, too: General Electors were strong supporters of Mara's Alliance Party: in six parliamentary elections over a twenty-year period, they never voted against it.\n\nIn the wake of the 1987 coup, a new constitution was promulgated in 1990 aimed at enforcing and institutionalising ethnic Fijian dominance. General Electors' representation was reduced to 5 out of 71, but all were now elected on the closed roll, thereby increasing the influence of politicians responsible only to General Electors, whom the Fijian nationalists still saw as allies. A Constitutional review in 1997, however, agreed on a more equitable distribution. General Electors would be allocated 3 out of 46 \"communal electorates,\" with the opportunity to contest, with all other groups, the 25 Open electorates. At any rate, with almost seven percent of the communal seats allocated to them, their representation was now close to their percentage of the Fijian population.\n\nThroughout the 1990s, General Electors generally supported the General Voters' Party (a reconstitution of what had been the European faction of the now-disbanded Alliance Party), and its successor, the United General Party, (now the United Peoples Party). In the 2001 election, however, they divided their three seats among three different parties. Subsequently, the United General Party leader, Millis Beddoes, was appointed Leader of the Opposition when the Fiji Labour Party leader, Mahendra Chaudhry, declined the position. This was the first time that a General Electors' representative had served in this capacity.\n\nA new constitution was promulgated in September 2013, abolishing ethnic representation in the newly constituted unicameral Parliament of Fiji. As a formal electoral constituency, the General Electors ceased to exist.\n"}
{"id": "40790800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40790800", "title": "General rating of city appeal", "text": "General rating of city appeal\n\nThe general rating of city appeal — is a method for calculating and comparing the city appeal and urban environment, based on determining their number values and the threshold of appeal. The method is based on collection, description and assessment of qualitative and quantitative indices. \nQuantitative indices are represented by annual statistical data on the cities of the Russian Federation, whereas qualitative characteristics are represented by own properties of a city. The purpose of the rating is to carry out an integrated collective and public analysis of the urban environment, compare urban environments, analyze strengthens and weaknesses and to prepare information for managerial analysis and to make personnel decisions.\n\nThe general rating of city appeal for Russian cities was designed by the Russian Union of Engineers in 2012. The rating was designed due to the objective need to conduct a complex analysis and assess disproportions in distribution of population, labour resources and production capacity in the Russian Federation.\n\nThe purpose of the rating is to carry out an unbiased and complex appraisal of Russian cities in terms of the criteria which determine the quality level of all spheres of activity of the population, city economy and urban environment.\n\nTasks:\n\nThe methodology of appraisal of city appeal is based on quality assessment of elements of the city economy and comfort of living of citizens. The main method is a procedure borrowed from qualimetry, in which several approaches to quantitative appraisal of quality were developed.\n\nTo compare various properties measured in scales different in range and dimension formula_1, a relative dimensionless ratio, is used to show the degree of approximation of formula_2, (absolute property indicator) to the maximum formula_3, and minimum formula_4. The relative ratio is described as the following relationship formula_5, which may be represented as a normalized function as follows formula_6\n\nTo compare the relativities of all properties included in the tree of properties formula_7, dimensionless importance ratios are used. For the purposes of convenience the following is usually assumed formula_8, and formula_9\n\nThe values of importance ratios are determined with the help of expert and non-expert (analytical) methods. This study combines both techniques (as described below). The relative importance was determined using a method of expert survey involving 50 experts of various industries and areas of business, different social and professional status.\n\nThus, the qualitative appraisal of quality formula_10 is expressed using the following formula\n\nformula_11, where\n\nformula_12 for all indices forming a part of the final general index of city appeal.\nThe general city appeal index is directly calculated as an average compound of all characteristics\n\nformula_13\n\nThe key problem of selection of the minimum combination of properties (indicators) forming a part of the item quality may be solved through the functional and typological analysis considering the quality as a system of objective properties, and based on the volume of the original information (statistical and open-access information). \nTherefore, to conduct the appraisal, 70 quasisimple properties were selected, forming 41 overall indices, which are, in their turn, interpreted as 13 indices.\n\nThe top ten cities are characterized by high indicators in nearly all the aspects. The only exception is the housing affordability factor, in terms of which the leading cities have low indicators because of high prices for 1 square meter of residential space. The cities leading in terms of most indicators are million-plus cities (Moscow, Saint Petersburg, Novosibirsk, Yekaterinburg, Kazan, Krasnoyarsk, Rostov-on-Don, and others); cities having development advantages (Vladivostok, Krasnodar, Sochi, and Kaliningrad); cities that are attractive from the point of view of investments (Tomsk, Omsk, Surgut, Tyumen, Irkutsk, Yaroslavl, Saratov); and Moscow Region cities with high construction rate (Podolsk, Khimki, Balashikha and Mytishchi).\n\nThe medium-ranked cities are the cities characterized by dynamic development (Kaluga, Krasnodar, Kislovodsk); industrial cities (Pervouralsk, Chelyabinsk, Ulyanovsk, Kamensk-Uralsky, Shakhty); the single-industry city of Naberezhnye Chelny, as well as Bryansk, Ryazan, Vologda, and Yoshkar-Ola.\n\nThe following cities are noted for satisfactory development levels: Orsk, Ulan-Ude, Orenburg, Sterlitamak, Syzran, Ussuriysk, Oktyabrsky, Votkinsk, single-industry cities Magnitogorsk, Nizhni Tagil, and the single-industry city having the highest investment inflow – Nakhodka.\n\nThe bottom-ranked cities in most subratings are the North Caucasus cities (Kaspiysk and Yessentuki), cities of the Altai Territory (Rubtsovsk, Barnaul, Biysk), single-industry cities Leninsk-Kuznetsky and Severodvinsk, as well as Artyom, Miass, Novocheboksarsk and Kopeisk. Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District cities Novy Urengoy and Noyabrsk, in spite of high economic indicators, generally lose on 50% of the indicators.\n\nOverall ranking indicates considerable disproportions in city potential, which becomes clear, if we delete population dynamics indices from the rating. Thus, if we exclude this parameter, the potential of the 1st city will be more than twice as high as of the 10th city and 10 times higher than the potential of the 100th city. Evidently, such a high difference is determined by objective difference of potentials of the cities; it is also important to notice that, in accordance with the Pareto principle, it is not obligatory to improve all the components of qualitative appraisal of cities. Here, the key aspect is economic potential.\n\nIt is also necessary to compare some social factors, first of all, the development of healthcare, education, social services because these are the key indicators.\n\nThe overall ranking of cities in the rating shows that even absolute leaders are not so far from the cities in the middle of the rating. This is caused by leveling of low indicators of parameters of some leaders. In particular, the value of the general index of Omsk, which ranks 10th, is just 1,2 times (by 20%) higher than that of the mid-city Mezhdurechensk. The only exception is Moscow (the value of the general indicator is 3 times higher than that of Mezhdurechensk; 2,5 times higher than that of the 10th city – Omsk – and twice as high as of the 3rd city – Novosibirsk).\n\nBesides, if we analyze the total of indicators of all the cities as their total potential, then the weight of Moscow – the leader of the rating – is 2%, and the weight of Grozny – the last in the rating - is 0,6%.\n\nFor most cities it can be said that the level of economic and industrial development would differ very much depending on living conditions. This is true for nearly all cities. For example, Syberia and Ural are centers for hydrocarbon production and metal mining. With the highest income rates per capita, these cities are characterized by the worst natural climatic conditions and low-developed transport system.\n\nThe group of mid-cities comprises rather different cities, ranging from the largest metallurgic mono-cities – Chelyabinsk, Magnitogorsk, Kamensk-Uralsky to cities with quite versatile economy – Vladimir, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Volzhsky. On the whole, this group consists of either industrially developed centers with negative natural and climatic conditions, or mid-cities of old-cultivated regions, characterized by primarily average values of all indicators.\n\nThe lowest indices are found among underdeveloped cities of the North Caucasus and South Siberia. This is connected primarily with agricultural specialization of the economy of these cities and adverse effect of conflicts which took place on the territory of the North Caucasus. The group of depressed cities also includes former large and middle-sized industrial centers which are primarily mono-cities – Zlatoust (metallurgy), Leninsk-Kuznetsky (metallurgy), Norilsk (metallurgy), Severodvinsk (defense industry complex). In money terms, the income difference may be more than by 6,7 times, and, as a rule, not in favour of underdeveloped cities, where income growth rate may be observed primarily in budget sectors and general income growth rate is low. In addition, real income of population grows faster, which is determined by constant production growth in innovation industries.\n\nThe study and appraisal of urban environment, namely, the parameter of appeal for internal and external factors and consumers, is of value:\n\nOn November 21, 2012, in the Polytechnical Museum of Moscow, the Russian Union of Engineers presented the General rating of appeal of Russian cities for 2011, which attracted much interest among the general public, Mass Media and local, regional and federal authorities.\n\nOn May 20, 2013, the Ministry of Regional Development of the Russian Federation, the Federal Agency of Construction and Housing of the Russian Federation, Russian Union of Engineers and the experts of Lomonosov Moscow State University developed a rating and methodology of evaluation of urban environment and analyzed 50 largest Russian cities. For this work, the Union designed the methods of urban environment quality assessment and a city appeal threshold. \nThe rating has been developed:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38589191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38589191", "title": "Haigwai language", "text": "Haigwai language\n\nHaigwai is an Oceanic language of Milne Bay Province, Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "22927759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22927759", "title": "Hungarians in Austria", "text": "Hungarians in Austria\n\nThe Hungarian community in Austria numbers 25,884 according to the 2001 Census. Of these, 10,686 were in Vienna and 4,704 in Burgenland. The total number of Hungarian-speakers is estimated at around 40,000, with 6,600 in Burgenland. Most of the Burgenland Hungarians live near the two district capitals of Oberwart/Felsőőr and Oberpullendorf/Felsőpulya. The Hungarian Group Advisory Council is the oldest of the official minority advisory councils in Austria.\n\nHungarians of Burgenland are the descendants of frontier guards sent during the eleventh century to protect the Kingdom of Hungary. Burgenland place names contain the elements 'Schützen' or 'Wart' ( as in Obserschützen, Unterwart etc.) constituting the linguistic testimony of that historic period. (In the following centuries many of these early inhabitants assimilated into the German-speaking population of Western Hungary.) Hungarians had maintained their privileged status until 1848. Burgenland was under Hungarian rule until the 1920 Treaty of Trianon. Hungarian education continued in the interwar period in a number of municipalities. Economic decline in Burgenland after World War II led to emigration. The negative image (see Iron Curtain) of the Hungarian language by this time led to assimilation.\n\nAs a result of the recognition of the Viennese Hungarians (1992) as a part of the Hungarian minority, the Hungarian minority is composed of two parts, namely the Burgenland Hungarians and the Hungarians living in the Vienna region.\n\nHungarians established a community in Vienna from 1541 following the 1526 battle of Mohács. Towards the end of the 17th century the city became a key cultural center for Hungarians. Hungarian students graduated from the Vienna University and from the 17th century onwards there was an increasing influx of Hungarian craftsmen into Vienna. The first cultural associations were set up in Vienna in the 1860s. 130,300 residents of Vienna in 1910 were citizens of the Hungarian part of the empire, while only 45,000 of them were also ethnically Hungarians. After World War I a re-emigration started. In censuses of the Interwar period Hungarians counted between 1,000-2,000 people. Refugees from Hungary increased the numbers again in 1945, 1948 and 1956. Today, some 27,000 Hungarians live in Vienna.\n\nThe Hungarians of Burgenland were split into four groups prior to the 1921 annexation of Burgenland:\n\n\nThe first two groups were largely absorbed after World War II, especially as a result of industrialisation after 1955. When German was introduced as the official language, Hungarian was only used on a rather restricted level, mostly spoken within the family. In the post-war school system Hungarian was taught as a foreign language for 2–3 hours per week even in communities with a Hungarian majority.\n\nTwo-thirds of Hungarians in Burgenland were Roman Catholic in 2004, Lutheran and Calvinist communities are also notable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57241168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57241168", "title": "International scientific committee on price history", "text": "International scientific committee on price history\n\nThe International scientific committee on price history was created in 1929 by William Beveridge and Edwin Francis Gay thanks to a five-years grant of the Rockefeller Foundation. The national representatives were William Beveridge for Great Britain, Moritz John Elsas for Germany, Edwin Francis Gay for the United States, Earl J. Hamilton for Spain, Henri Hauser for France and Alfred Francis Pribram for Austria; later came also Franciszek Bujak for Poland and Nicolaas Wilhelmus Posthumus for the Netherlands; Arthur H. Cole was in charge of finances for the whole project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55704797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55704797", "title": "Jesus the Worker Agro-industrial Training Center", "text": "Jesus the Worker Agro-industrial Training Center\n\nJesus the Worker Agro-industrial Training Center (CCAIJO) was founded by the Jesuits in 1971 among the peasantry in the Quispicanchi Province of Peru. It trains farmers in sustainable development especially in the areas of processing, marketing, environmental care, and water projects along with improved housing and civic participation.\n\nCCAIJO won the Antonio Brack Egg 2015 national award from the Ministry of Environment for its Projects to Confront Climate Change in Rural Areas with the construction of micro-dams.\n"}
{"id": "57734392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57734392", "title": "Kenan Pala", "text": "Kenan Pala\n\nKenan Pala is an American/Turkish entrepreneur and volunteer. He founded the charity \"Kids4Community\", a non-profit organization run by teens that feeds the homeless and gives lessons of awareness to teens about homelessness in the San Diego area. Kenan Pala is also a major runner in the San Diego area. The city of San Diego declared January 23, 2018 as “Kenan Pala Day”.\n\nKenan Pala is the eldest son of Serhat Pala and Zeynep Ilgaz, who originally immigrated from Turkey to the United States in 1998. They both received their MBAs at San Diego State and eventually started Confirm Biosciences. Since Pala was in kindergarten he has been volunteering with his parents at local shelters in San Diego. Pala stated that volunteering has \"been a part of my life for as long as I can remember.\"\n\nPala attends Francis Parker school in San Diego, California. In 2016, he led a food drive that received over 6000 cereal boxes for local shelters for homeless people. They also used 4000 cereal boxes to set a Guinness World Record for the largest cardboard box mosaic.\n\nIn May 2017, he was awarded the title of the national honoree in the 2017 Prudential Spirit of Community Awards, which recognize teens for their community efforts. He was also awarded San Diego's Philanthropy Council Volunteer of the Year award.\n\nPala founded Kids4Community in January 2017, a volunteer organizations that \"helps kids help the community.\" The organization works with other non-profit groups and shelters. Pala started the organization \"to help children and their families give back to their communities in a meaningful way.\"\n\nIn September 2017, Kids4Community donated hygiene kits for the victims of Hurricane Harvey and care packages for the victims of Hurricane Irma. The next month, the organization assembled and sent care packages to those affected by Hurricane Maria and the 2017 Central Mexico earthquake. In December 2017, the organization donated 2000 stockings to a San Diego shelter.\n\nIn March 2018, Pala organized a Kids4Community's first ever 5k, entitled the \"Bright Futures 5k\". The 5k had about 300 runners and 200 volunteers, which totaled over 500 attendees. All proceeds for the event, which totaled over $10,000, were donated to Interfaith Community Health Services' Housing 1000 Program. This program is assisting 1000 homeless people in San Diego get off the streets and into apartments and houses.\n\nIn June 2018, Kids4Community helped organize a cleanup in Mission Bay.\n"}
{"id": "30502494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30502494", "title": "List of Bombardier recreational and snow vehicles", "text": "List of Bombardier recreational and snow vehicles\n\nList of Bombardier recreational and snow vehicles and products.\n\nThese vehicles and craft were made by Bombardier or from 2003 Bombardier Recreational Products of Canada. In 2004 the industrial vehicles division was sold to the Camoplast company of Canada. Subsequently, Camoplast sold their Track Machines Division to Primoth, which is part of the Leitner Group .\n\n(now marketed under the Evinrude brand) \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "291028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291028", "title": "List of LGBT rights organizations", "text": "List of LGBT rights organizations\n\nThis is a list of LGBT rights organizations around the world. For social and support groups or organizations affiliated with mainstream religious organizations, please see \"List of LGBT-related organizations and conferences\". For organizations affiliated with political parties, please see \"List of LGBT organizations that affiliate with political parties\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40682389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40682389", "title": "List of airborne wind energy organizations", "text": "List of airborne wind energy organizations\n\nThis is a list of airborne wind energy or kite-energy organizations that are advancing airborne wind energy systems (AWES).\nIn 2011 there were over 40 organizations involved worldwide , but this number has increased to over 60 in 2017 .\n\nCategories of kite-energy or airborne-wind-energy organizations that are forming the nascent industry: education, academic, non-profit, for-profit, communication, research, original kite-energy equipment manufacturer, kite-line manufacturer, industry-wide association, history, testing, forum entity, library, cooperative, consortium, group, club, school, training school.\n\nGeneration by kite-energy systems may involve pumping, electricity generators flown in the upper flying system (flygen), electric generators situated on the land or sea or on board a vessel (groundgen), simple lifting of objects (lifting), pulling hulls or other objects (traction), or transportation; systems generate energy to do special tasks. Systems may be scaled from tiny to utility size.\n\nThe following list is not complete but a representative collection.\n"}
{"id": "14868690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14868690", "title": "Lop dialect", "text": "Lop dialect\n\nLop, also known as Lopnor or Lopnur is a language spoken in Xinjiang, China.\n\nLop belongs to the Karluk branch of Turkic languages, along with Uyghur and Uzbek. Its status as a distinct language from Uyghur is disputed. Although it has some features that differentiate it from standard Uyghur, it is considered by some linguists to be one of its dialects.\n\nGeneral\n"}
{"id": "48631101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48631101", "title": "Love Matters (program)", "text": "Love Matters (program)\n\nLove Matters is a global program providing information on relationships, sex and love. The idea was first developed in the Netherlands by the independent media producer by Michele Ernsting and Michelle Chakkalackal at RNW Media. It has been referred to as a freedom of speech program. Its current target countries are Kenya, Uganda, China, Egypt, Mexico, Venezuela and India.\n\nThe platform was originally launched in India (headed by Vithika Yadav), before expanding rapidly to Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and China. Love Matters works mainly online via its own websites and social media channels. In each region, it provides the same delivery method, but the content and language are tailored to each target market. It seeks to bridge the gap in sexual reproductive health information between young people, sexual health experts, educators and services.\n\nThe concept has been honored by the World Association for Sexual Health and is also mentioned in the United Nations manifesto on reproductive health.\n\nThe first Love Matters platform was launched in November 2010 in Netherlands, and then subsequently launched in India in 2011India. This was following the banning of sexual education in a number of regions in India in the years prior to this.\n\nRNW Media launched the idea after seeing problems globally with sex education. The coverage in India gave them a platform to launch the idea, with them launching Love Matters India in late 2011. The idea came following decades of work by RNW Media, using shortwave radio. The Dutch media group partnered with a number of local institutions, including the Indira Gandhi National Open University for Love Matters.\n\nThe exact strategy for the launch was created following a survey they carried out with young Indian citizens in Delhi and Mumbai. Originally the platform was launched as a website, with the focus shifting to mobile css-styled websites after the survey's results clearly stated that their target market of young people wanted to access the information predominantly on their mobile phones.\n\nLove Matters second launch was in South America in 2011, with “Hablemos de Amor”, which translates as \"Let’s talk about Love\". The region and name were later redefined, with the Latin American version of the platform focusing on three areas, Venezuela, Mexico and Cuba. The title was also changed to \"Hablemos de Sexo y Amor\", to include sex in the title, a bid to make the platform more popular amongst men. The next step for the platform was to move to Kenya, where it went live in 2012. As part of the launch, Kenyan newspaper The Star, launched a weekly feature and an advice column, talking about common relationship issues.\n\nIn 2013, Love Matters took the decision to expand to China, where it is commonly taboo for people to openly talk about sex and sexual problems. This has contributed to the increase in teenage pregnancy in the country. When Love Matters and their partners in China carried out a survey in Beijing, it found that 47% of the young people had never received formal sex education. Of the 47%, nearly two thirds of them wanted to have access to more information.\n\nAfter the success of the platform in various regions, it was expanded to the Middle East. The platform aims to tackle many taboos within Middle Eastern culture,which in general doesn't offer sex education within schools. Al Hubb Thaqafa, which can be translated to \"love is culture\", is predominantly managed and run by Middle Eastern women. While Love Matters approach goes against many traditional views in countries such as Iran, Pakistan and Egypt, it has been accepted by many as a social tool for sex education, especially for females in the region.\n\nLove Matters India works locally with many institutions to help promote the platform to local people. It is a sex-positive platform, meaning it refuses to be censored by religion or taboos. On that particular platform, visitors post blogs and queries, which are answered by the fictitious person \"Auntyji.\" The figure is aimed to provide a motherly figure for younger individuals, based on the relationship between elders and young adults in Indian culture. The framework of the site is to answer many general questions that Indians may have, while also providing tools such as an encyclopaedia of sex terms to promote self-learning.\n\nOther information and medical coverage is also displayed on many of the platforms, including information on HIV and AIDS. In regions such as Kenya, Love Matters has also distributed content using the existing media channels. From 2012 onwards, the platform partnered with The Star in Kenya, to write on a weekly basis about common relationship problems.\n\nLove Matters operates regionally, creating targeted content, dependent on what is required for that given target region. The earliest launch was in India, with other locations such as Kenya soon following. Other major regional platforms have included Latin America, China and the Middle East.\n\nThe Love Matters concept received recognition in 2013 from the World Association for Sexual Health, following its expansion to various locations globally. After receiving the award, a member of the awarding panel stated in an interview that he believed Love Matter carried out “innovative work in reaching a large number of young people in challenging settings.”\n\nIn recent times, Love Matters was mentioned by the United Nations as part of their advice manifesto for their guidelines on reproductive health.\n"}
{"id": "16032230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16032230", "title": "Mabire language", "text": "Mabire language\n\nMabire is a critically endangered Afro-Asiatic language spoken in Oulek village in Chad. \n\nAs of a report published in 2001, there were three living speakers of Mabire, two of whom were an elderly brother and sister, named Terab and Balha, living in Oulek. The third speaker, Souleymane Dabanga, was the chief of the Mabire and lived in Katch.\n\nThe Mabire language belongs to the Dangla group of Eastern Chadic, along with Dangaleat (Dangla) and Migaama (Migama).\n\nFifty years ago, the Mabire lived in four large villages near Mount Mabire. These villages were Amdjaména, Arga, Mambire. The community disbanded following an epidemic, with the survivors assimilating into neighboring speech communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "48467240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48467240", "title": "Nordic Medical Prize", "text": "Nordic Medical Prize\n\nThe Nordic Medical Prize (Swedish \"Nordiska medicinpriset\") is a Swedish prize in medicine awarded by the SalusAnsvar/Ulf Nilsonnes Foundation for Medical Research in cooperation with the insurance company Folksam. It is the second largest medical award in the Nordic countries, after the Nobel Prize in Medicine, and includes a monetary prize of one million Swedish kronor. The prize has been awarded since 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "23722560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23722560", "title": "Nyangwara people", "text": "Nyangwara people\n\nThe Nyangwara are an ethnic group numbering between 25,000 and 30,000 people living in the South Sudan in the state of Central Equatoria. They are part of Karo people (East Africa) which also includes Bari, Mundari, Kakwa, Kuku and Pojulu tribes. They speak Kutuk na Nyangwara.\n\nNyangwara\n\nThe term Nyangwara or Yangwara which means “horns” refers to both people and an ethnic group. The Nyangwara is one of the ethnic group in South Sudan. They are part of the Bari-speaking ethnic groups including Pojulu, Bari, Kuku, Kakwa, and Mundari, of Central Equatoria State in South Sudan. They speak the Bari language spoken by other Bari-speaking groups noted above. The Bari language is said to be part of the “Bari-Masai sub-group of the Nilot-Hamitic” language group. The language is “predominantly Hamitic, [for] it has grammatical gender and plurality. Further, the Nilotic element in the language is to be found solely in word roots and not in sentence construction. These roots, mostly territorial (consonant, vowel, consonant) are common to Bari and the neighboring Nilotic languages (especially Dinka and Acholi).”\n\nThe Nyangwara inhabit an area west of Juba, the capital of South Sudan. Administratively, the Nyangwara homeland is one of the Payams (districts) of Juba County, in Central Equatoria State. The population of the Nyangwara is estimated to be 46.490 people. Other estimates put the figure between 25.000 and 30.000 people. According to Franz Morlang, a British traveller who visited the southern region of Sudan in 1859, the \"Nyangwara (also Yangwara, Yangbara, and Yambara) is a name given by the Bari to the country laying to the west of the Kerek and Kunufi mountains, as far as the Yei River, [in Yei County].\" They are predominantly agriculturalists; and although they used to keep cattle, the prevalence of tes-tes flies in the area led the Nyangwara to loss their cattle. Over centuries the Nyangwara people and society underwent several changes resulting from civil wars, displacement, and internal, regional, and international migration. With their exposure to urban life, Islam and Christian religions, cash economy, western education, and British colonialism in Sudan, many of the Nyangwara’s sociocultural practices and political systems are either altered or changed to meet the changing lifestyles and socio-economic realities in South Sudan.\n\nGeographical Location and Wildlife\n\nAs noted in the introduction, the Nyangwara homeland is located in the western bank of the Nile River, about 18 kilometres west of Juba, in Central Equatoria State. The Nyangwara homeland is bordered in the west by the Muru ethnic group, in the north by the Mundari of Tali, in the south by the Pojulu and in the east by the Bari ethnic group. As explained by Franz Morlang, the area of the Nyangwara is \"equivalent to one and half degrees both in length and in breadth, with high mountains on the eastern and western sides\". He further noted that the Nyangwara area has many “seasonal streams and rivulets flowing towards the Yei River.” Intermarriage between the Nyangwara and their neighbours was and still is common especially with the Muru, Mundari and Pojulu. The Nyangwara homeland falls within the jurisdiction of Juba County. It consists of three (3) Payams (Districts) of Rokon, Dollo, and Tijor; inclusive of thirteen (13) Payams of Juba County. The three Payams are further divided into nineteen (19) Bomas (Sub-districts).\n\nIn the past, the Nyangwara territory includes Wonduruba, Miri, Rokon and Tijor areas. However, in 2011, the people of Tijor relinquished the Nyangwara identification and adopted a new identify of ‘Pojulu of Tijor of ‘Pojulu ti Tijor.’ Thus, currently, the name Nyangwara only applies to the people of Dollo and Rokon Payams. However, administratively, the people of Tijor and the Nyangwara continue to coexist in one geographical area governed by one association known as Juba West Community Association (JWCA). JWCA was formed in 2011 to oversee the general affairs of the area. As far as the people of Wonduruba are concerned, they are Pojulu in ethnicity. Their area was annexed to the Rokon B court during the British colonial rule in Sudan (1896-1955). Following the signing of the CPA and the subsequent political independence of South Sudan in 2011, Wonduruba is transformed into a separate Payam.\n\nThe Nyangwara territory was/is also, known for its richness in wild life and other edible floras. As noted by Morlang, there is an abundance of edible plants and that nearly every shrub has its own edible fruit of different flavour. Some of the wild animals found in the area including elephants, Gazelles, leopards, lions, buffaloes and other small animals and birds. However, with changes in the climate, the consequences of the 21-year civil war, and increased urbanization, the wildlife might be negatively affected.\n\nSocial Organization\nLike the other Bari-speaking groups, the Nyangwara are divided into three major social groupings, based on territorial locations. These include: the Nyangwara of Rokon, Dollo or Miri, and Tijor who later adopted the name of “Pojulu of Tijor” explained above. The Nyangwara of Rokon and Dollo sometimes identify themselves with two of their prominent chiefs namely Soro Kenyi and Kirri Fataki respectively. In the late 1980s through the 1990s, for instance, the Nyangwara came to be identified with their contemporary chiefs, namely, Chief John Kennedy Nymaya (Loyo) and Joseph Kiri Fataki (Loki’do) respectively. Loyo, Loki’do and Bate were influential, in addressing the plight of the Nyangwara people when they were displaced from their homeland by the SPLA in early 1990s; and were settled in IDPs camps in the outskirts of Juba. They stood firm in protecting the rights and dignity of their people from discrimination, and oppressive practices of Sudan government’s authorities in Juba during the 21-year civil war period. Similarly, the three chiefs succeeded in ending inter-clan fights that existed between different clans of the Nyangwara through effective administration of the law in their respective customary courts they preside.\n\nDescent System\n\nThe Nyangwara society is a non-centralized society and its people follow patrilineal descent lines, whereby descent is traced through the father’s line. The society is made up of several clans called \"Kotumitan\" sing. \"Kotumit\" in Bari language. Each clan or Kotumit has a name and a territory. Each clan is headed by a headman locally referred to as \"Mukungu.\" The Mukungu is elected by the people of his territory/clan. He is therefore, responsible for his people. He maintains law and order with the support of male elders of the community. He also represents the interests of his people in the higher political organisation or the village council which is headed by a chief or “Matat.”\n\nIn regards to the number of Nyangwara clans, it is not clearly documented. However, some of the clans identified during interviews and informal conversations with members of the Nyangwara communities in Cairo Egypt, Northern Uganda, and Yei from 1996-1997, include the following:\n\nRokon clans include: Wurjang (also known as the Bodongoro), Rokon, Sereng, Burra which is divided into three sub-clans of Burra na Kiden, Burra Gug'uti and Burra na Loku; the Nyangwara (or the Layi), ‘Gurung'ba, Gimora, and Loyika, among others. Dollo clans include: Soro, Jum'bga, Guru, Remo, Kiro, Tulyang, Mile, Liggi, Tombe, Magiri, Burra, Adala 'Bologa, Loki'do, Pirisa, Miri and Buranga.\n\nThe Village Setting\n\nThe organization of the village in the Nyangwara land is similar to that of other Bari-speakers. A village is often spread over a sizable extend of land. It consists of a number of households belonging to the village dwellers. Within each household are a number of huts varying in sizes and shapes which were/are used by members of the household. In addition to the residential huts, is a granary or gugu used for storing imperishable food items such grain, maize, Sesame seeds, ground nuts, etc. A goat-house or kadi or goro na yidin, and a chicken-house or kadi or goro na sokoro are part of the homestead as well. Adjacent to each household is a farmland for cultivation of food crops for subsistence. The inhabitants of a household often include a husband, wife/wives, children, grandparents, and other relatives. As a patriarchal society, each household is headed by a male or the patriarch of the family.\n\nPolitical Organisation or Chieftaincy \"Tumatyan\"\nLike the social organization, chieftaincy among the Nyagwara is non-centralized. The largest political unit among Nyangwara might be a group of people united with one another by ties of kinship or descent group. Descent groups are large configurations which link together many families. Similar to other non-centralized societies in South Sudan, the Nyangwara political organisation consists of independent groups of clans or kotumitan, sing. Kotumit. The clan or kotumit is the basis of Nyangwara social and political organisation. As indicated earlier each clan has a clan head or \"mukungu\". These heads come under the authority of a chief or \"matat\". The office of the chief which is based in one ruling clan is hereditary. However, the hereditary nature of the chieftaincy was altered during the British colonial rule in Sudan, when the British replaced some local chiefs, particularly those who resisted colonial policies, with British appointed ‘native chiefs;’ who collaborated with the colonial administration.\n\nMarata Ja'be from the Wurjang clan, who was interviewed in mid-July 1997, explained the shift in chieftaincy from the Wurjang clan to the Rokon clan that took place during the colonial period as follows:\n\nAt first the chieftaincy was in the Wurjang clan or kotumit under the leadership of Chief Petero Wala. Then the chieftaincy shifted from the Wurjang clan to that of Rokon at the time when Captain James Cook of Great Britain was the colonial administrator of Juba, southern Sudan. [This happened during the early years of British colonial rule in Sudan, between late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.] This shift happened when the Commissioner visited the Nyangwara village and found that Chief Petero Wala was not at home. He went to the bush to hunt elephants. At that time Cook decided to appoint Kenyi Bilal of the Rokon clan as chief or matat. When Chief Petero Wala returned from hunting he found that he had been replaced by Kenyi Bilal. From that time Petero Wala became angry with the Rokon clan. This shift in chieftaincy or tumantyan has created tension and conflict between the two clans. However, what makes the situation to be tolerated is due to the fact that the mother of the newly appointed chief Kenyi Bilal is from the wurjang clan. Since that time until today, the Rokon clan consider the Wurjang people as their great grand-fathers because of their grand-mother – Kenyi Bilal’s mother. As a result there is no intermarriage between the two clans because people from the two groups consider themselves related by blood. Therefore, since that shift, the chieftaincy had remain in the Rokon clan up to the present time.\n\nPolitical Hierarchy and duties of the Chief\n\nIn term of political hierarchy, the highest political structure at the village level was/is a council of elders, who are mainly men. The council of elders include individuals who head and represent the different clans or Kotumitan in the village. They assist the chief in carrying out his duties. As noted above, the chief normally appoints his successor, usually his elder son. However, if he fails to do so, the choice which is within the accepted hereditary limits, rest with the council of elders. The council of elders also enforces law and order, moral values and the important of rituals performance within the village.\n\nDuties of the chief and his council of elders include settling of disputes between clans and among people of the same clan and other social problems, and offenses. For instance, to settle disputes brought forward by a community member, the council will hold open air meeting(s) in customary courts – often under a big tree at the center of the village or in a structure build for that purpose, prevalent in urban areas. Members of the community are also allowed to attend these meetings. The aggrieved will present his/her case to the council of elders and it will be debated. After all the issues and concerns of the defendant and plaintive are extensively discussed, the council of elders retreats to a separate meeting area to consider all the views presented and to reach a decision, usually by consensus.\n\nAdministration of Law\n\nLike other ethnic groups of South Sudan, law among the Nyangwara is seen as an instrument of peace-keeping and peace-making through negotiation, compromise and reconciliation. The punishment of the wrong doer is not always emphasized except in serious offence like murder.\n\nFor example, issues of contention between husband and wife or wives, between parents and children, or between neighbors, were/are settled through reconciliation and negotiation to allow for the restoration of peace and harmony. Issues of land and other types of property were settled through adjudication, by those who are experts in this field and by the appropriate authorities. Although the duties of the chief and the composition of the council of elders remain the same, some changes happened during the colonial period, as many chiefs were brought under the colonial administration in the Equatoria region. Today, the administrative and legal system in South Sudan is characterized by plurality whereby, customary courts co-exist with other forms of legal systems. For instance, article 123 (a-d) of the Transitional Constitution of South Sudan outlines the structure of the judiciary in South Sudan as consisting of “a) the Supreme Court, b) Courts of Appeal, c) High Courts, d) County Courts and d) other courts and tribunals as deemed necessary to be established in accordance with the provisions of [the] constitution and the law.” Consequently, there are nineteen (19) “A” Courts and three (3) “B” Courts in the three Payams of the Nyangwara.\n\nFamily and Marriage Institutions\n\nThe family is one of the most important institutions among the Nyangwara. It is the primary unit of production and reproduction. Women, men, and children and other relatives occupy different positions within the family. For example, women as – daughters, wives and mothers, and children occupy subordinate position in relation to the man who is regarded as head of the family. The family also plays an important role in the socialization of children from childhood to adulthood. Different forms of family exist among the Nyangwara. The two most common forms of families include extended and nuclear families. The former include a wide range of relatives, such as grandparents, parents, children, brothers and sisters, cousins, aunts and other relatives. Even when these people do not all live in the same household or compound, the sense of communal responsibility, obligation, and authority is wide-ranging and strongly felt and encouraged. The latter form of family consists mainly of father, mother and children, sometimes grandparents and close relatives, prevalent in urban areas. Due to the consequences of civil wars, displacement, migration, and rapid urbanization in South Sudan, there is also an increase in the number female headed households, not only in the homeland, but in the diaspora as well.\n\nMarriage\n\nMarriage, understood in its heterosexual sense, is an important institution among the Nyangwara, and it is through marriage that a family is created. Marriage was and still is an alliance not between individuals, but between two kin or lineage groups. The exchange of women as wives between two groups often symbolizes political as well as economic linkage. Marriage is regarded as a bond that is essential for sexual satisfaction, progression into womanhood and manhood, establishing relationships between families and kin groups, and growth of the family. Thus, marriage in this context legitimizes sexual relations.\n\nMarriage among the Nyangwara is regulated by clan exogamy and by kinship. As such marriage of relatives or cousins from both sides of parents is not allowed. Relationship can be traced up to the fifth or eighth generation. A man for example, may not marry a woman related to his forth grand parents. In other words, he may not marry any woman with whom relationship can be traced through either parent. Marriages which break these rules can be regulated by cutting a goat length wise, a practice shared by the Bari and Pojulu. The slaughter and cutting of the goat length wise symbolizes the end of kinship relationship between the two families.\nMarriage is marked by the transfer of bridewealth from the bride-groom’s clan/family to that of the bride. Depending on the clans involved, bridwealth consist of specific number of goats, iron tipped tools such as hoes, spears, arrows, and iron bar(s) or pindata sing. Cash and luxury goods are now part of bridwealth as well. Payment of bridewealth is seen as compensation to the girl’s family; a return to parents/guardians for the expense they have incurred in the woman’s rearing; the seal of a contract by which the woman is to become the mother of the man’s children and a guarantee of good treatment. As a patriarchal society, bridewealth among the Nyangwara also gives a man legal rights over children resulting from the marriage and gives him the right to custody upon divorce. Similarly, bridewealth gives a man legal right, over a woman’s body and domestic services. Because of this legal right assumed by men, adultery is not tolerated especially by the husband and members of his lineage.\n\nForms of Marriage\n\nPolygamous and monogamous marriages exist among the Nyangwara. Generally, polygamy was and still is widely practiced by the Nyangwara. It is the practice whereby a man can marry more than one wife. Among the Nyangwara and other ethnic groups in South Sudan, a man may marry several wives as long as he could ‘maintain them well’. Several reasons can be attributed to the prevalent of polygamy among the Nyangwara. Polygamy is usually regarded as a way of displaying ones wealth and power. A chief or any rich and powerful man, for instance, may have several wives who will share the household tasks and provide him with children. Another reason for the practice of polygamy is, if the first wife is barren, the husband might decide to marry another wife to procreate, while maintaining the first wife. In this context, failure to bear children is located in the woman’s body, and not the man. Like other Bari-speaking groups, the Nyangwara traditions do not specify the number of women that a man could marry. This explains the fact that some Nyanwara men had married as many as six or more wives during their lifetime.\n\nMonogamous marriage is also common among the Nyamgwara. This form of marriage became more prevalent with the introduction of Christianity during the colonial period. Also, the changing economic conditions in South Sudan which makes it difficult to maintain several wives and large family, forced some men to marry one wife. In recent years, particularly due to civil wars, displacement and economic hardships, many Nyangwara men also find it difficult to sustain several wives. Those who settled in countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia, and other Western European countries, are further constrained by restrictive laws governing marriage and family in those countries; laws that do not allow the practice of polygamy.\n\nWorth noting is the fact that divorce is not encouraged among the Nyangwara especially when children are involved. Any dispute between a husband and a wife is often addressed within the family. For instance, any dispute between couples is first communicated to elders of both families concerned, who will try to settle the problem so the two continue to live together. The main concern is to preserve the marriage and maintain the social bond, and to avoid tension and enmity between the two families and/or clans involved. However, as a result of war, displacement, difficult living condition, and the existence of a non-customary legal system many people who experienced difficulties in their marriages had sought divorce through the legal system with out even consulting their families.\n\nInstitution of widow inheritance “Ruta”\n\nThe institution of widow inheritance exists among the Nyangwara. This practice, also known as the levirate, could entail conjugal rights, but could also mean only the assumption of economic responsibility for the widow and her children. For instance, if a woman is widowed she can be inherited by one of her husband's brothers or by a close relative in case of the absence of brothers. Children born out of this relations are regarded the children of the deceased man. In a situation whereby the woman decides not to be inherited and/or opt to remarry another man from out side the decease husband's clan; the new husband-to-be might have to pay the bride wealth to the deceased husband's family. Some women sometimes retain the right not to remarry and/or to be inherited. Often older widows with adult grown up children, or some young widows might refuse to be inherited but remain in the family to look after her children. Such a decision might also cause minor misunderstanding between the woman and her husband's brother(s) or a relative who is interested in inheriting her. Overall, although the institution of widow inheritance exist among the Nyangwara, women often have the final decision whether to be inherited, remarry into a different clan, or stay in her deceased husband’s family to care for her children. \n\nChildren\n\nChildren are very important in any marital relationship. A woman is expected to become pregnant immediately after marriage. A woman’s failure to become pregnant within few months is a cause of concern not only for the woman, but the husband as well. Some men might consider marrying a second wife, or engage in extra-marital affairs with an aim of having a child. Also, to avoid pressure from his parents, relatives, and friends, some men might consider marring a second wife. It is important to note that failure to procreate is often seen as a woman’s problem until proven otherwise. Thus, a woman is often encouraged to seek medical treatment to address any health and reproductive problem. A woman often gain status and respect from her in-laws, and society when she becomes a mother. Thus, it can also be argued that marriage and having children is very important for women among the Nyangwara. However, this does not mean that women who fail to bear children are not respected or do not have status. On the contrary, such women are often respected and valued by her family and society at large. For instance, through her industriousness, her social and material support to her parents’ family, clan and other relatives who might rely on her for their survival and wellbeing, women gain respect and status. Although both sexes are accepted and valued, however, preference is often given to male children. It is common to hear some married women (and men) who had given birth to daughters only, wish to have a son, or complain that God is not blessing her with male children. Perhaps, the preference for male children stem from the patriarchal understanding that since female children are often married to other clans; a male child is needed, to become the hire and continue the family line following the passing of the family patriarch.\n\nPosition of women in Society\n\nIn a patriarchal society such as the Nyangwara, women occupy subordinate position in both the family and the society. For example, in areas of political power, decision making, property ownership and other familial and social events such as ritual performance, marriage discussions, and so on, women occupy lower position as compared to men. Despite their subordinate position within the family and society in relation to men, a woman is respected as a mother and manager of the family affairs. Thus motherhood is often very important for a woman. Through motherhood a woman gains status within the family. At old age a woman gain powerful position as ritual performer, Traditional Birth Attendant (TBA), spiritual expert, and healer. They also become more involved in decision making roles within the family, and society at large. In contemporary South Sudan, attainment of formal education, participation in public and private affairs of the country as politicians, civil servants, business owner, religious leaders, etc., women are increasingly making strides in many fronts, and are gradually changing their subordinate positions.\n\nGendered Division of Labor\n\nLike other Bari-speaking groups, the division of labor among the Nyagwara is gendered. Work that is performed within the household, is considered women’s work, while work performed outside the household is considered men’s. These gendered roles are inculcated in people’s perceptions since childhood through the socialization process. For instance, girls are encouraged to learn the domestic roles of caring and nurturing, while boys are geared toward public roles. When girls and boys become adults each knows which role he/she has to perform. The home, school, and other social institutions, play a great role in the socialization process. \nThe gendered division of work places heavy burden on women. Tasks related to food production, child rearing and household work such as food preparation, cleaning, fetching firewood and water, caring for the sick and elderly are considered women's work. In addition to their household responsibilities women also work in the fields – they hoe, weed, harvest and transport the crops, particularly in rural areas. Men on the other hand help in the clearing of large trees and grass from agricultural land, building of houses, hunting and herding of goats. Men are also responsible for disciplining children, especially male children, and are regarded a head and protector of the family and the society from outside enemy. However, with rapid urbanization taking place in South Sudan, many Nyangwara people are increasing migrating to cities, and both men and women are now engaged in wage earning jobs to sustain themselves and their families. Similarly, some Nyangwara women are now heading households and taking care of vulnerable members of their extended families.\n\nSelected Socio-cultural Practices\n\nDress Code\n\nThe ‘modern’ code of dress such as skirts, blouses, and dresses [for women] and trousers, shorts and shirts [for men] is introduced to the Nyangwara people when they came into contact with the British colonialists, Muslim communities from northern Sudan, as well as the linkages created between the Nyangwara homeland and Juba city as early as the late nineteenth through the twentieth centuries. As indicated earlier, after selling honey, cassava flour, and other trade items in Juba, the income earned is then used for buying cloth, salt, and other necessities not available in the village. However, in precolonial period the Nyangwara people rely on natural material found in the surrounding environment to make their apparels. Women for example, wear nyalot and 'beleng (i.e. leaves of a tree with soft touch found in the Nyangwara area) to cover the private parts of the body. These leaves are held together by weaved rope tied around the waist and worn as loincloth. 'Beleng are usually worn by young women, during special occasions like marriage ceremonies and other social celebrations. Women also wear colourful beads around the waist to make their attire more fashionable. Men usually wear loincloth, which can be either a piece of fabric or leather material. However, in contemporary South Sudan, the Nyamgwara people adopted variety of “modern” and fashionable attire mentioned above, common in South Sudan, other neighbouring African countries and globally.\n\nBodily Decoration\n\nBoth men and women also tattoo their bodies. Women’s bodily decoration includes tattooing their forehead, arms, face, and abdomen, particularly the areas around the belly-button, and between the breasts; lower lip, nose, and ear piercing, are forms of bodily decoration, or ethnic markings. According to Morlang \"the girls perforate their lips and insert pieces of wood, durra stalks, or stones cut in cylindrical form...Tattooing usually consists of incisions radiating from between the eyebrows to the sides of the forehead. Like the Mundari and the Dinka, Nyangwara men and women also used to extra four of their lower teeth. Tattooing, lower teeth extraction, body piercing, and other bodily marks are performed as a rite of passages from childhood to young adults. However, with the exposure of the Nyangwara people to formal education, and interaction with other cultures city lifestyle, as well as aware of the health risks involved, some of the cultural practices, except for ear piercing, are generally abandoned.\n\nArt, Dance and Music\n\nArt\n\nVarious art forms of exist among the Nyangwara. Iron smelting, pottery, basket and mat weaving are some of the craft made by the Nyangwara people. Pottery, basket and mat weaving are dominated by women. Mainly clay pots of different sizes and shapes are produced and are used for different purposes. For example, large pots are often used to carry and store drinking water, and making of local or home-made beer or \"yawa,\" while the small ones are used for cooking. Calabashes of different sizes are decorated for household use as well. Iron smelting is the work of the blacksmith locally referred to as \"tomonok, sing. tumunit\". Most of the blacksmiths are believed to be Bari migrants who settled in the Nyangwara area. Blacksmith produce iron-tipped tools that are used by the Nyangwara include spear bow, arrows, and axes, knifes of different sizes, and hoes used for farming and hunting. In present-day South Sudan, Nyangwara and other Bari-speaking blacksmiths opened shops in some Markets in Juba, such as the Konyokonyo market, and are producing variety of household utensils such as cooking pots, frying pans, spoons of different sizes, etc. which are sold in the market. The occupation of the blacksmith is hereditary within a given family, and is passed down from one generation to another.\n\nDance and Music\n\nAs far as dance and music are concerned, the Nyangwara are known for their dance and composition of songs. As noted by Morlang, love for music, dancing and singing is one of the main characteristics of the Nyangwara. People usually dance during funerals and other ceremonies such as marriage, Christmas, and beginning of the New Year There are three types of songs, which include: songs of praise, death and funeral songs and mockery songs. Songs of praise include love songs by either a man expressing his love to a woman or by a woman to a man. Also songs are sang for praising a clan, or some of the clan’s members or a leader for his good work and social standing within the society. Death and funeral songs are usually sang and performed during funerals. Mockery songs are those which point out in an indirect way unacceptable acts or behaviour of an individual or a clan. Mockery songs are usually the cause of fight between different clans during celebrations which bring together people from different clans. The Nyangwara are also known for making or constructing different kinds of musical instruments. During dance performance drums of different sizes and shapes are used simultaneously together with other instruments to create different rhythms. Some of the drums and instruments include \"kengere\" (big drum), \"ki'deng\" (small drum) and \"kole ko pindatat\" (a hoe and an iron bar). Other musical instruments include kili’ba that is, flute, or trumpet carved out of single animal horn hollowed out.\n\nBelief System\n\nLike other Bari-speaking ethnic groups, the core of the Nyanqwara indigenous religious beliefs was ritual venerations offerings and sacrifices. Their religious beliefs are both monotheistic, that is, believe in a single Supreme Being or ‘Ngun,’ and polytheistic or believe in spirits, \"muloko\" (sing. Mulokotyo). Muloko is a word for spirits or souls and commonly applied to the spirits of dead ancestors – ancestral spirits. In other words, ancestors’ spirits are spirits of the deceased mothers and fathers, and grandparents who are recognized in a special ceremony, held usually a year after they have died. Ancestral spirits concerned themselves only with their descendants, blessing or punishing them for observing or neglecting custom. The ancestors’ spirits are believed to be closest to both their living descendants and to the Supreme Being and are thus most qualified to function as intermediaries.\n\nAncestral Spirits and Misfortunes\n\nAs family elders ancestral spirits must be respected by the living. If the muloko are neglected they have the potential to cause misfortunes such as sickness or death in a family, in order to attract attention to the fact that they have been ignored. As a result, if the living took a good care of the ancestral spirits, by offering sacrifices to them and performing the necessary rituals, they might avert any sickness and ensure good health and harvest. However, if the muloko are neglected, it is believed that they can cause misfortunes such as sickness or death in a family. The purpose is to attract attention to the fact that they have been ignored. In a situation that a misfortune occurs, a ritual is usually performed to appease the ancestral spirit. In an event that, a particular mulokotyo is not identified, a \"bunit\" that is, medicine man or woman is consulted to identify the \"mulokotyo\" of the harming ancestor. Once known, and depending on the severity of the misfortune, a ritual is performed by either sacrificing a goat (for a major misfortune) or a chicken (for a minor misfortune). The sacrifice is mainly intended to minimize anger of the \"muloko\" and to bring good fortune and good health to the family.\n"}
{"id": "16347805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16347805", "title": "Oyda language", "text": "Oyda language\n\nOyda is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in the Gamo Gofa Zone of Ethiopia.\n\nThe 2007 Census of Ethiopia lists 45,120 individuals for the ethnic group.\n\n"}
{"id": "4422921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4422921", "title": "Panayiotis Yamarelos", "text": "Panayiotis Yamarelos\n\nPanayiotis Yamarelos (), also called as Panos Yamarelos/Giamarelos, is a Greek retired university professor of medical jurisprudence and arguably the most famous coroner in Greece, based in Athens. He was for many years the Head of the Medical Examiners of Greece. He has received various awards for his work in the field of medical jurisprudence and published thousands of projects and works in Greece and abroad.\n\nHe has been involved in hundreds of death cases in Greece as a medical examiner, with most famous to be the case of soldier Romiopoulos' suspicious death in 1997 and the case of Monk Vissarion Korkoliacos.\n\nPanayiotis Yamarelos died in May 2006.\n"}
{"id": "528259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528259", "title": "Parasite single", "text": "Parasite single\n\nThe expression \"parasaito shinguru\" was first used by Professor Masahiro Yamada of Tokyo Gakugei University in his bestselling book , published in October 1999. The catchy phrase quickly found its way into the media and is now a well-known expression in Japan.\n\nProfessor Yamada subsequently coined the related term \"parasite couple\" to refer to married children living with the parents of one partner. However, this situation occurs less frequently and the term \"parasite couples\" is less well known. This is a traditional Japanese living arrangement, though its prevalence has decreased in recent years.\n\nThis situation allows the children to live in considerable comfort, and while many save money, others spend all their income on luxury items, traveling, and other non-essential expenses. Many children wish to live with their parents until they marry.\n\nThe parents, for their part, often enjoy living with their children. Many parents want to protect their children and offer them the best possible start in life. Parents also enjoy the company and the social interaction and try to maintain the relationship. The additional expenses for the parents due to the additional household member are usually small, as the fixed costs such as rent must be paid regardless, and the additional cost for food and other consumables is sometimes negligible. Many parents also see this as an investment in their future, as the children will be more obliged to take care of their parents in their old age (in Japan, it is traditional that children care for their elderly and disabled parents).\n\nA growing number of young women are remaining unmarried in Japan today, a development often viewed as a rebellion against the traditional confines of women's restrictive roles as wives and mothers. The number of Japanese women still single in their twenties was 30.6% in 1985 and 54% in 2004.\n\nYoung women's lifestyles instead center on friends, work, and spending disposable income; unmarried Japanese adults typically live with their parents, thus saving on household expenses and increasing the amount of money available to spend on their own entertainment. Sociologist Masahiro Yamada gave these young adults the label \"parasitic singles.\" Some young women reacted by creating business cards with their names and the title \"Parasite Single\" on them. Japanese media has given heavy coverage to the decline in Japan's birthrate, but the trend continues.\n\nThere is a sense of community to sharing a home with other people in general. Life in modern societies is more physically isolated than at any point in human history. Japan is at the extreme of this spectrum, with much of life revolving around workplace interactions. The multi-generation home living arrangement is only strange in the context of late 20th century and early 21st century consumer-economics stigma which favors economic competition above personal enrichment, enjoyment and appreciation of life. The aspect of young people not working indeed mirrors economic parasitism in some ways, although as has been pointed out in Japan and the United States, the older generations currently dominate the mid and high level work positions. Indeed, this phenomenon is the inevitable result of a spiritual rebellion from a rapidly changing world in which the powerful forces of society simultaneously condemn young people for lacking ambition, while seeking to enslave them without much prospect for fulfilling, balanced lives, nor even physical security in the intermediate future.\n\nThe housing costs in Japan are notoriously high, especially in or near large cities. A parasite single who chose to live independently would, on average, lose 2/3 of his or her disposable income. Furthermore, they would also have to do cleaning and cooking for themselves. Finally, establishing a household has a large up-front cost for durable items, e.g. a refrigerator, furniture, washing machine, and other items. The security deposit, traditional monetary gift for the landlord (\"key money\"), and the housing agent fee can also easily reach six months' rent; this is non-refundable and must be paid in advance. In summary, becoming independent involves large expenses, work, and a significant drop in living standard. Furthermore, as the vast majority of the Japanese population is concentrated in cities, all the employment and entertainment options desired are within reach from the parental home.\n\nThe economic advantages are enjoyed by all types of parasite singles, although there are different subgroups. Career oriented young salarymen, career women, and office ladies could afford to live on their own, but prefer the additional financial benefits, and perhaps the company and security, of living at their parents' homes.\n\nOften, they can only find part-time and low-paid jobs, turning into underemployed, so-called freeters, who cannot afford to live independently, regardless of whether they would like to or not. Finally, some adult children do not want to face the competition of the outside world at all, and so, do not seek work, and, in extreme situations, try to not even leave their parents' house. These children are referred to as hikikomori (people who withdraw from society, literally to \"withdraw into seclusion\").\n\nGenda Yuji, associate Professor of the Institute of Social Science (University of Tokyo), widened the perspective from the rise of so-called \"parasite singles\" through proposing a socioeconomic-driven view, strongly connected to the collapse of bubble economy, and the inability of the country's employment system to react after the crisis:\n\nOne possible side effect of the parasite single phenomenon is the increase of the average age of the first marriage (though this is also attributable to other factors, such as career prospects and education). While in 1970, Japanese women married on average at age 24 and men at age 27, by 2002, this had increased to 27.4 years for women and 29 years for men. This has also resulted in women having children later in life, and fewer children overall due to the decline in fertility after age 30. Subsequently, while in 1983 there were on average 1.8 children born to every woman over her lifetime, this has decreased to 1.22 children per woman in 2008.\n\nParasite singles are often blamed for a large number of problems in Japan, ranging from a decline in the birthrate to the economic recession.\n\nSome social scientists have attributed the rise in parasite singles to the Japanese preference for community, and that the increased rate has more to do with people not being in long-term relationships, choosing instead to concentrate on their work and the infamously long hours of a traditional Japanese workplace.\n\nThese lifestyles are not confined to Japanese society; similar arrangements can also be found in other cultures. For example, in Italy, a large percentage of single males live with their parents, sometimes into their 30s. They were joked about by the former Italian Minister of Economy and Finance Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa, who called them \"bamboccioni\" (literally, big [i.e., grown-up] babies). This was considered offensive by some people, and newspapers pointed out that he knew little about the situation of a considerable part of the 20- to 30-year-old Italian population. In post-communist Central Europe, the phenomenon is more accepted, possibly due to socio-economic reasons and soaring housing prices. In English-speaking nations, the term \"basement dweller\" has similar connotations.\n\nA different concept of parasite single is found in Brazil, where some individuals are said to have a \"Paitrocínio\" (a wordplay between the words Pai/parent and patrocínio/sponsorship). This word is used not for the ones living in their parents' homes, but for the ones who did leave home, but still rely solely, or majorly, on their parents' financial support. The reasons for leaving home before achieving financial independence vary, but mostly it is due to college or to start a career with small or uncertain initial incomes, such as in arts and sports.\n\nJapanese social phenomena:\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "3758730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3758730", "title": "Privacy software", "text": "Privacy software\n\nPrivacy software is software built to protect the privacy of its users. The software typically works in conjunction with Internet usage to control or limit the amount of information made available to third parties. The software can apply encryption or filtering of various kinds.\n\nPrivacy software can refer to two different types of protection. One type is protecting a user's Internet privacy from the World Wide Web. There are software products that will mask or hide a user's IP address from the outside world in order to protect the user from identity theft. The second type of protection is hiding or deleting the users Internet traces that are left on their PC after they have been surfing the Internet. There is software that will erase all the users Internet traces and there is software that will hide and encrypt a user's traces so that others using their PC will not know where they have been surfing.\n\nOne solution to enhance privacy software is whitelisting. Whitelisting is a process in which a company identifies the software that it will allow to and does not try to recognize malware. Whitelisting permits acceptable software to run and either prevents anything else from running or lets new software run in a quarantined environment until the can verify its validity. Whereas whitelisting allows nothing to run unless it is on the whitelist, blacklisting allows everything to run unless it is on the black. A blacklist then includes certain types of software that are not allowed to run in the company environment. For example, a company might blacklist peer-to-peer file sharing on its systems. In addition to software, people, devices, and web sites can also be whitelisted or blacklisted.\n\nIntrusion detection systems are designed to detect all types of malicious network traffic and computer usage that cannot be detected by a firewall. These systems capture all network traffic flows and examine the contents of each packet for malicious traffic.\n\nEncryption is another form for privacy security. When organizations do not have secure channel for sending information, they use encryption to stop unauthorized eavesdroppers. Encryption is the process of converting an original message into a form that cannot be read by anyone except the intended receiver.\n\nSteganography is sometimes used to hide messages from eavesdropping and e-surveillance.\n\nPrivacy is different from anonymity in its applicability and usage. Anonymity is subordinate to privacy and might be desired for the exchange, retrieval or publication of specific information.\n\nUses of privacy software are not free from legal issues. For instance, there are regulations for export of cryptography from the United States. Similarly, key disclosure law also requires individuals to surrender cryptographic keys to law enforcement agencies. Encryption laws in India also carry many legal restrictions in diverse situations.<ref name=\"http://perry4law.co.in/blog/?p=67\"></ref> Talks are also in pipeline to include cyber security technologies, like encryption related software, under the Wassenaar Arrangement thereby making its export more cumbersome.<ref name=\"http://perry4law.co.in/cyber_security/?p=61\"></ref>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21541034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21541034", "title": "Prodesis", "text": "Prodesis\n\nProdesis was a development project in the Lacandon region of Chiapas, Mexico, that ran from 2004 to 2008.\nThe aim of the project was to reduce pressure on the rainforest and combat poverty among its inhabitants, most of them being Mayan Indians and subsistence peasants.\n\nProdesis is an abbreviation of the Spanish name for the programme:\n\"Proyecto de Desarrollo Social Integrado y Sostenible, Chiapas, Mexico\"\n(\"Integrated and Sustainable Social Development Project, Chiapas, Mexico\").\n\nIts overall objectives were:\n\nThese goals should stimulate a sense of citizenship, and enhance the relation between the Chiapas government and the 155,000 inhabitants of the 830 communities located around the protected area of the Lacandon Jungle: the Montes Azules Biosphere Reserve. This population, which is mainly indigenous and rural, has the highest levels of poverty and marginalization in the State of Chiapas, and of Mexico as a whole.\n\n\"Prodesis\" was a continuation the \"Integral Programme for the Sustainable Development of the Selva Lacandon Forest\" (PIDSS), which in turn was a continuation of Plan Cañadas.\n\nAs re-formulated on start-up in 2003, \"Prodesis\" focussed on 16 of the 34 micro-regions identified by PIDSS. These \"micro-regions\" were defined by suitability for particular approaches to social and economic development and included Agua Azul, Avellanal, Amador Hernández, Betania, Benemerito de las Américas, Carmen Villaflores, Comunidad Lacandona, Damasco, Francisco I Madero, Maravilla Tenejapa, Marqués de Comillas, Nahá, Nuevo Francisco León, Nuevo Huixtán, Rio Blanco, and Santo Domingo.\n\nThe project was a cooperation between the state of Chiapas and the European Union (EU), and was budgeted for €31.000.000, of which €16.000.000 was invested by the state of Chiapas. The EU contributed €15.000.000 through EuropeAid. The European project (or agreement) code is ALA/B7-310/2003/5756.\n\nThe history of PRODESIS stretches back to 1996 when a mission of 4 consultants visited Mexico and carried out an area appraisal to prepare a proposal for a Euro 5 million project to be carried out between SEMARNAP and the EC (Teyssier, Capietto and de Agostini, 1996). In late 1998 SEMARNAP responded to a set of key issues that had been raised by the EC Delegation in 1997, presented a reformulated proposal and requested that renewed consideration be given to the Project.\nThe 1996 proposal was appraised by a further mission, carried out in September 1999, made up of Dr. Alastair White (anthropologist and socioeconomist) and Torsten Mark Kowal (rural development forester and climate/environmental scientist), working for LTS Consultants, Scotland, UK. They reported on the ongoing feasibility of the Project as designed in 1996 through: (i) fact-finding to identify substantive changes in the socio-economic and political context; (ii) analysis of the logic and applicability of the original approach; (iii) appraisal of the probability of fulfilment of basic conditions, identified in 1996 as prerequisites for successful project implementation. The re-designed project was proposed to EU Aide Attaches in Sept 1999 and to EuropeAid in Brussels. The main points in the re-design were to require local project-orientated planning processes within all components to supersede the ambitious participatory planning component proposed in 1996; and emphasis was placed on defining options for achievable changes in land-use, for training specific groups in the alternative land use and microenterprises options, and for linking up community-level projects with credit and other funding sources. \n\nFrom 2000 to 2003 the project then awaited improvements in the social and political context, as well as due process by the EC and the Mexican Government. The go-ahead for Prodesis was agreed in 2001. Preparations and consultations started in 2002, and the final contract was signed December 2003. \n\nFollowing formal approval, given all the elapsed time, it was necessary to re-design the project yet again, and this was done by Dieter Paas and Arturo Arreola, once the project was tendered for European Technical Assistance in 2003. However, it is unclear how far the White/Kowal recommendations were accepted; nor is it evident how many of the changes proposed in 1999 to the 1996 proposal were then taken on board during the 2003 re-design once the project formally started up. No internet references exist that describe these inputs and their role. \n\nThe project started in 2004 and initially was expected to run until 2007, but due to delays related to modifications of the project plan and financial issues between the EU and Mexico, the project then continued for an extra year until September 2008.\n\nProdesis was carried out by SeDeSol (Secretariat of Social Development of the State of Chiapas), and its director was Rodolfo Diaz Sarvide.\nChristian Bouteille was the (European) head of the International Technical Assistance. The European Delegation in Mexico-City was responsible for the European involvement in the project.\n\nDespite some progress and the benefits resulting from the Prodesis investment,in 2008 a classified evaluation report, ordered by the European Commission, and conducted by IBF International Consulting in collaboration with B.A.a Consultors (Piero Di Giacinto, Jan Karremans, Thomas Pijnenburg) concluded that Prodesis had not achieved all its objectives. \n\nThese strong criticisms were summarised by independent sources and can be read here or here . A further clear set of criticisms are summarised here that take Prodesis as a case study.\n\nOn the 13th and 14 October 2008 the 8th meeting of the Joint Committee (established Under the EU-Mexico Economic Partnership) Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement (Global Agreement) was held in Mexico City. Regarding the session on cooperation it was stated that:\n\"Both parties took note of the progress achieved in current projects in the fields of social development, economic cooperation and science and technology. The parties furthermore underlined the positive results of PRODESIS implementation and agreed to explore the possibility of continuing it with a second phase in the 2007-2013 Cooperation Programme.\"\nIn early 2009 it was decided that Prodesis was not going to be continued with a second phase in the Cooperation Programme.\n\nProdesis was signed within the framework of the Free Trade Agreement and Association Agreement between the European Union and Mexico:\n\"The new agreement should lead to liberalization of trade and investment between Mexico and the EU [...but also to...] greater social equality and a political system that is genuinely democratic and pluralist and respects human rights. [...] This agreement opens the door to a wide range of potential cooperation activities between the parties, and will allow the EU to provide Mexico with financial and technical assistance for such social programmes as action against poverty, regional development, and cooperation in the field of human rights and protection of indigenous communities. [...] With regard to the current political context in Mexico, the discussions on the new agreement are going hand-in-hand in Mexico with a complex internal political process of democratization and reform. [...] The process of reform currently underway is also being hindered by a range of other factors such as [...] the conflict in Chiapas, the activities of guerilla movements in a number of other areas and the human rights situation, one of the most dramatic recent examples being the massacre which occurred in Acteal on 22 December 1997 and which was strongly condemned by Parliament in its resolution of 15 January 1998. [...] The 1997 agreements [...] include a democracy clause or human rights clause as an essential component. This was a stumbling block to the signing of the framework agreement in 1991. Nevertheless, the difficulties which have arisen in the context of the transition process in Mexico have highlighted the importance of the \"democracy clause\". [...] Parliament therefore considered it vital that the \"democracy clause\" be included in the new agreement and that the applicability of the agreement would be conditional on strict respect for that clause.\"\nOn January 23, 2004 an article in the Mexican newspaper \"La Jornada\" reported that in the community of Nuevo San Rafael in the Lacandon forest, 23 houses were burned down and that the victims were chased into the jungle. February 3 Mexican news magazine Proceso suggested a link with a cooperation programme between Mexico and the EU. On several Indymedia-sites and other news and community sites around the world it was soon suggested that the violence was perpetrated by the Mexican Army against the Zapatista Ch'ol tribe, and that the EU was involved in relation to Plan Puebla Panamá. Before the project even got started Prodesis was already accused of being a counter-insurgency project aimed at getting rid of the local population to gain control over the regions' natural resources.\n\nBased on this information Member of the European Parliament Erik Meijer posed a question (E-0546/04, 26-2-2004) to the European Commission (see below).\n\nSince early 2004 numerous critical articles (varying in factuality) about Prodesis have been published in Mexican newspapers (mainly La Jornada), magazines (Proceso , Contralínea ), and on websites of local and international NGO's.\n\nOn the 9th of February 2007 58 representants of communities in the Lacandon region signed the Declaration of Moxviquil in which they demanded the project to be suspended. The most important reasons stated in the document were that they were not properly informed about the project, which is a violation of ILO convention 169 and the Mexican Constitution (art.2). Another reason was that they did not see any serious effort in real social development, only some subsidies for cement, tin roofs, chickens and crops. After they had offered the declaration to the director of Prodesis and the head of the European Delegation in Mexico-City, some of those who signed the declaration were threatened by Prodesis staff: if they would stand by their signature, they would not receive any kind of government support anymore (like \"opportunidades\" or \"procampo\").\n\nAlso please see more about the socio-political context in the Lacandon region, and the predecessor-projects of Prodesis, Chiapas conflict.\n\nUntil the 1950s, the Selva Lacandona covered an area of about 1.3 million hectares (13,000 km2). By the mid-1990s the pristine forest had been reduced to about 400,000 or at most 450,000 ha. The Lacandón Indians, who until the 1950s were the still the only inhabitants of the Selva Lacandona, were then only about 600 persons, having been reduced from much larger numbers by the diseases brought in the late nineteenth century to which they had no immunity, brought by the mahogany cutters who first penetrated the area. The Lacandones by late last century numbered about 800. Due to demographic pressure, since the late 1950s and especially in the 1970s, about 80,000 other Indians originating in the highlands of Chiapas have occupied parts of the forest area. They are mainly Tzeltals (56% of the present population), with some Tojolabales (17%), Chols (11%) and Tzotzils (2%). \n\nThe small Maya Lacandón communities were outside the monetary economy until recent decades and their main monetary income today comes from the sale of craft items. In 1972, as part of a state government manoeuvre in relation to timber extraction, the Lacandones were granted formal ownership of the 614,000 hectares of the ‘Bienes Comunales Lacandones’ then established, but in 1978 were obliged to share this with some 15,000 Tzeltal and Chol settlers then granted communal rights. The majority of Lacandones do not possess cattle so have little negative impact on the forest, whereas in all the other communities, a better-off part of the population owns some beef-cattle, constituting an important form of saving and investment. Cattle are managed extensively, each head requiring about a hectare of land, and forest areas are frequently converted to pasture.\nMarqués de Comillas, previously part of the Selva Lacandona forest, began to be settled by the same Indian groups in the 1970s. Then it was colonised in 1974-86 by settlers coming largely from other Mexican states, though the ejidos that were then formed absorbed the already-settled Tzeltal and other Chiapas Indian groups. Some 10-15% of the total population of the Selva Lacandona area are now mestizos (non-Indians) concentrated in Marqués de Comillas. At the time of settlement, the only communications were by river and by air, and some of the settlers left in the early years finding themselves unsuited to the pioneer life. As a result of the early unattractiveness of the area, the generation of settlers was able to obtain larger areas of land than the 20 hectares usually available to ejidatarios (heads of family on land distributed under the Mexican agrarian reform laws) elsewhere, with 50 hectares a common allocation. However, the interior of the Marqués de Comillas triangle remains poorly served by roads, and this has affected the growth of the communities where substantial concentrations of poverty are still found. \n\nBetween about 1958 and 1986, both the Chiapas State and Federal governments either actively or passively favoured migration to “undeveloped” forest-land. The Chiapas state government looked favourably upon the migration of Indians to the Selva Lacandona, as it tended to reduce the pressure on land and particularly the demands for land reforms in parts of Chiapas where a latifundio system predominated. In the early 1960s and in 1974-86 two periods of federal government-sponsored colonisation occurred, the latter focused on Marqués de Comillas. This was a question of relieving pressures on the land elsewhere in the country.\n\nUntil 1986, government policy was by no means clearly oriented to protecting the forest. State-led exploitation of the forest’s precious woods was managed by COFOLASA/CORFO during the 1970s and 80s (cedar and particularly mahogany), as against private companies with largely North American capital who first entered the region in the 1850s. Valuable timber was extracted in this period from areas within the areas formally owned by the Comunidad Lacandona, as well as from Marqués de Comillas, as COFOLASA/CORFO was most active during the period of maximum conversion of forest for agriculture as colonisation proceeded.\n\nBetween the mid-1970s and 1986 agricultural and forestry policies continued to be inconsistent. Government statements and actions included both support for maintaining the forest (e.g. the proclamation of the Biosphere Reserve of Montes Azules in 1978); and support for activities which would have the opposite effect (e.g. legalisation of landholdings on the western side of the forest, and the opening-up of Marqués de Comillas with credit support for cattle, as well as state-sponsored oil exploration). Efforts to promote sustainable timber production in Marqués de Comillas began in 1987 and, after a Chiapas State ban on timber extraction from 1990 to 1994, restarted in 1995.\n\nSince 1987 there has been an overall consistent policy of discouraging, if not preventing new settlement. The negotiated departure has been sought of those settled within the Biosphere Reserve post-1978 without land-rights. \n\nGovernment policy, as executed by a variety of state and federal authorities since the early 90s, has broadly sought to encourage a shift to sustainable agriculture so as not to make further inroads into the forest, but without great success due to weaknesses in conception and implementation - including the lack of participatory agricultural extension as proposed should be the methods used by PRODESIS. \n\nDuring the mid-1990s, SEMARNAP had established environmentally-orientated subsidies for maize cultivation (termed ‘milpa sedentarizada’), to prevent the burning of cut-over forest or reclaimed fallow, and to stop annual burns of weeds and crop residues. However, the quota of families to receive these subsidies in each community is usually limited and the money typically arrives very late, which greatly reduces the incentive effect. Subsidies in money and kind are also given for other crops (coffee, organic vegetables, and saplings for timber plantations), but are subject to the same limitations. Inputs have also been given for minor animal husbandry projects. Numerous small economic projects for particular communities have been implemented with a low success rate, as little participatory planning was practised, and there has been little training of community members in the management of such projects.\n\nState intervention patterns have created a situation in which government funds have become an important potential source of direct income, and this has affected local attitudes and behaviour. Communities wait and call for government schemes before taking action and can become disinclined to take local initiatives. A ‘dependency syndrome’ has developed that is often pronounced among the poorer communities, for which the government funds assume greater significance relative to their earnings from production. At least in some communities (Nueva Palestina) the incipient differentiation and the availability of government funds has led to tensions within the community: as to whether funds should go the better-off to further their entrepreneurial activities, or be reserved for the more disadvantaged sections of the community.\n\nDespite the considerable development and biodiversity justifications for setting-up Prodesis, like its predecessor-projects PIDSS and Plan Cañadas, was perceived by (a part of) the population and NGO's (local as well as international) as a counter-insurgency \"light\" project. \n\nSomething that sustained this scepticism was the fact that Prodesis focussed extensively on the demographic aspects of \"The Chiapas Problem\", and hardly referred to the socio-political history of the area where Prodesis was implemented. By blaming the Chiapas conflict on overpopulation in a vulnerable environment, but avoiding political issues connecting to the EZLN, the San Andrés Accords, and the diluted Cocopa law of 2001, many felt these core issues were not being taken seriously by the EC intervention. \n\nIn particular, Prodesis has found it hard to deal with: (i) the delicate issue of \"illegal\" settlements within the nucleus of the Reserve; (ii) the considerable tensions between ethnic groups; and (iii) the extremely polarized political allegiances that are found in the area. Ensuring participation in project design and management of the Lacandon people, other indigenous groups, and their organisations, was especially difficult. \n\nCriticism on Prodesis in relation to counter-insurgency or low intensity conflict can be broadly divided along 3 dimensions:\n\n1] in relation to the history of marginalization of indigenous people and landless peasants in Chiapas\n\n2] in relation to the history of social development policy in Chiapas\n\n3] in relation to globalization, Plan Puebla Panama and the European involvement in Prodesis\n\nMany do believe that, under the guise of a development project (aimed at poverty reduction and protecting the environment), Europe's real motive to cooperate in Prodesis would be to secure European trade and investment in Mexico. Since social or political instability (or perceived instability) would pose a threat to the economic partnership, the EU would contribute to a counter-insurgency project. \n\nThis would contradict Prodesis' emphasis on participative democracy. (for a similar argument see also the Zapatista memo). Hence the allegations of a new Conquista by means of neo-liberal policies and direct foreign investment. Communications from the EU itself have encouraged these ideas. Some quotes:\n\"The Commission wants to create a climate favourable to trade and investment. [...] It is in the EU’s interest to develop and consolidate its market positions and to pursue a dynamic investment policy. [...] The current challenge is to find a way to facilitate trade and European investment in Latin America. The Commission’s aim is to encourage the development of a legal climate to attract European investments and guarantee the predictability and security of these investments In the WTO framework […] contributing to the development of a stable and predictable framework to help the Latin American countries attract more European investment.\" Strategy for a stronger partnership between the European Union and Latin America\n\n\"There are destabilising factors that could ultimately jeopardize growth and European investments, and thereby affect the biregional partnership. [...] They jeopardise growth and economic development. [...] These relate, in particular to the Chiapas problem and the integration of the marginalized population groups and the country’s indigenous communities in general. These potential instability factors bring with them a cost (lack of security for companies, a distorted image abroad, especially in Europe) and may represent important barriers to the general development of the country, and in particular to attracting European trade and investment.\" Country Strategy Paper Mexico 2002-2006\n\n26-2-2004: MEP Erik Meijer, question E-0546/04\n\n\"Is the Commission aware that, according to the Mexican newspaper La Jornada of 3 February 2004, five non-governmental organisations in the south-eastern state of Chiapas consider the European Union to have been involved in an attack on the village of Nuevo San Rafael, controlled by the Zapatista movement and occupied by members of the Chol tribe, in the remote nature reserve of Montes Azules, which consists of primeval forest, on 19 or 22 January, in which attack 23 houses were set on fire, the occupants fled, the village was permanently cut off from the outside world by soldiers and the land is being returned to the former big land-owners to enable them to fell the primeval forest? [...] Was this attack encouraged by the fact that the EU has concluded an agreement concerning a development project worth € 15.000.000 with governor Pablo Salazar, possibly in part in connection with Plan Puebla Panama, which comprises major infrastructure projects in Central America from Panama to nine poor federal states in Mexico, which require the indigenous Indian population to make way for newcomers and to enable the land to be put to new uses or at least compel that population to give up the autonomy which it in practice enjoys?\"\n30-3-2004: Commissioner Chris Patten, answer E-0546/04\n\n\"The Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement between the EU and Mexico states in its first article that the: Respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights, proclaimed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, underpins the domestic and external policies of both Parties and constitutes an essential element of this Agreement. The Commission at all times ensures that its actions are consistent with this article. The Commission recently signed a Financing Agreement with Mexico for the Integrated and Sustainable Social Development Project in Chiapas, Mexico. Implementation of this project has not yet begun, but is\nexpected to start in the coming months. [...] The project was designed with the input and participation of local stakeholders who will continue to participate in the planning and implementation process, in particular through the Micro-regional Councils (Consejos microregionales) who represent the local communities. The project is not part of the Plan Puebla Panama (PPP). It has been reported that some local communities and governments in the South/Southeast of Mexico criticise the PPP as a top-down initiative with supposedly inadequate consultation of local stakeholders. The Commission is aware of the press reports in question, and considers any suggestion of EU involvement in any act of violence in Chiapas or elsewhere to be utterly without foundation. [...] There is certainly no evidence to suggest that the reported attack was encouraged by the signing of the financing agreement for this project.\"\n6-1-2005: MEP Eva Lichtenberger, question E-3589/04\n\n\"Parliament has received news that the indigenous people and those in the rural areas around Montes Azules have not been duly informed about the project and there is a great deal of mistrust. [...] Do the representatives elected to work on the project have Community support? [...] What will happen to communities which refuse to take part in this project? [...] How will support for the project be assessed in this highly militarised and conflictive region? [...] There are many displaced persons in the area of Montes Azules. What connection is there between the above project and a possible relocation of settlements for the displaced?\"\n24-2-2005: Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner, answer E-3589/04 (in French and German )\n\n18-7-2005: MEP Tobias Pflüger, question P-2769/05\n\n\"According to press reports and my own local research, those belonging to the indigenous population and farmers living in the Lacandon Jungle region were not adequately informed beforehand about this project, or involved in the planning of the project. Under Article 7 of ILO-convention 169 , indigenous population groups have to be consulted before projects may be carried out on their lands. According to human rights organisations in Europe and Mexico, the European Commission is running a risk, in financing this project, of lending support to the counter-insurgency action being waged in the context of low-intensity warfare and of exacerbating socio-economic tensions between communities, by virtue of the fact that only certain individual population groups are benefited by this project.\"\n16-2-2006: Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner, answer P-2769/05\n\n1) The current Chiapas State Government, elected in 2000, qualified as beneficiary institution in this EC project due to its reconciliatory position in the conflict between federal government and ELZN, that has been recognised by the latter on several occasions. [...] After its election, the Government of Chiapas also politically assumed the principles of the San Andrés Agreement between the federal Mexican government and the EZLN, as well as the 169 ILO Convention.\n2) The State Government’s position is sustained by the fact that one of the most delicate subjects in the Lacandona region, the agrarian (land) reform and resulting conflicts over land and delocalisation of “informal settlements” (especially in the Montes Azules area – that is not part of Prodesis’ area of intervention), are falling under federal competence. The Chiapas Government hence is not participating in the very tense negotiations between local communities and federal institutions on that issue.\n3) From an institutional point of view, major emphasis has been put on inclusive participation and control by civil society within PRODESIS’ Consultative Council, whose “civil society college” currently includes 30 members of regional and national civil society organisations. The renowned Chiapas expert and EZLN’s external consultant during the negotiation of the San Andres Agreement, Professor Jan de Vos, is also a member of that Consultative Council.\nComments on answer P-2769/05 by Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner\n\n1) Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner refers to the political situation in 2000: Newly elected president Fox had promised to revive the peace process and ratify the Cocopa legislative proposal which, taken to the constitutional level, would mean the fulfillment of the San Andrés Accords. However, in April 2001 Mexican Congress adopted a diluted version of the Cocopa law, which was criticised by the International Labour Organization for violating ILO-convention 169 . The EZLN felt betrayed and broke off all dialogue with the federal and state government and installed \"juntas de buen gobierno\" (\"communities of Good governance\"). Furthermore, in 2004 Ruben Velazquez Lopez (secretary of government of Chiapas) said he would \"not tolerate land-occupations anymore\", threatening informal settlements with eviction. So the legitimation the Commissioner gives in her answer of February 16th 2006 conceils the changed political situation between 2000 and 2004, when Prodesis started.\n2) The Commissioner suggests that conflicts over land and delocalisation of \"informal settlements\" happen only in the Montes Azules Biosphere Reserve, which falls under federal competence. Prodesis’ area of intervention is the Lacandon region \"around\" Montes Azules, which is Chiapas territory. The Chiapas Government (beneficiary of the €15.000.000 for Prodesis), hence would not be involved in these matters. This distinction however is purely theoretical: in reality conflicts over land, para-military attacks, Zapatista presence, and Prodesis' 16 micro-regions are all located in the Lacandon region \"around\" the Montes Azules Reserve. This is illustrated by this map (see on the right) of Chiapas' Lacandon region, with Montes Azules Biosphere Reserve (green area) at the center. The green circles represent Prodesis projects, the blue circles represent areas with conflicts over land, and the red markings represent areas with para-military presence.\n3) Although emphasis has been put on inclusive participation and control by civil society within Prodesis’ Consultative Council, several members of that council (among them Jan de Vos and Tim Trench) are critical of Prodesis' consultation process, and sceptical of its effectivity, stating that the project might indeed be worsening the situation in the region.\n15-7-2008: MEP Eva Lichtenberger, question H-0628/08\n\n\"Why was an extremely strife-torn region chosen without consulting or securing the agreement of the local population? [...] What mechanisms does the EU intend to use in order to guarantee that its projects are carried out in accordance with the provisions of the UN Declaration on Indigenous Peoples concerning the need to secure free and informed consent for any project being carried out on land belonging to indigenous peoples?\"\n25-9-2008: Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner, answer H-0628/08\n\n\"At every step of the project cycle, and even now with PRODESIS in its closing stages, the Commission has been aware of the difficult political and social situation on the ground. This is reflected both by Prodesis' openness to local partner institutions, and its strong commitment to accountability to final beneficiaries and communities. During the feasibility study and formulation mission, there were multiple contacts and consultations with local beneficiaries and communities as well as national and regional civil society organisations. During the project launch and execution, each planning exercise and productive activity financed by the project necessarily depended on the prior agreement and free consent of local communities and grass-root organisations. From an institutional point of view, emphasis has been put on civil society participation and control within the project's Consultative Council, whose independent Civil Society College included approximately 30 members of regional and national Non State Actors (NSA).\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8676512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8676512", "title": "Protestantism in Brazil", "text": "Protestantism in Brazil\n\nProtestantism in Brazil began in the 19th century, and grew in the 20th century after restrictions against Protestants were abolished throughout Latin America. The 2010 Census reported that 22.2% of the Brazilian population is Protestant, about 44 million people, making it one of the world's largest concentration of Protestants.\n\nBrazilian Protestantism is primarily represented by Evangelical Protestant and Pentecostal churches, and a smaller proportion of Baptists. The remainder is made up of Lutherans, Adventists, Presbyterians and other mainline Protestant traditions.\n\nProtestantism was first practiced by Huguenot travelers in attempts to colonize the country while it was under the Portuguese colonial rule. These attempts, however, would not persist. A French mission sent by John Calvin was established in 1557, in one of the islands of Guanabara Bay, where the France Antarctique was founded. On March 10 of the same year, these Calvinists held the first Protestant service in Brazil and, according to some accounts, the first in all the New World.\n\nProtestant religions were often introduced by immigrants from Europe but over the last three decades, the number of Neo Pentecostal churches such as the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God have grown a lot.\n\nIn the 19th century, while the vast majority of Brazilians were nominal Catholics, the nation was underserved by priests, and for large numbers their religion was only nominal. Protestantism in Brazil largely originated with European Immigrants as well as British American missionaries following up on efforts that began in the 1820s. \n\nThe first Anglican chapel began to offer services to English-speaking people in Rio in 1822. Also in that city, the Prussian consul sponsored the founding of a German and French Reformed congregation in 1827, which today is a Lutheran church.\n\nAmong missionaries, Methodists were most active, along with Presbyterians and Baptists. The Seventh-day Adventists began in 1894, and the YMCA was organized in 1896. The missionaries promoted schools colleges and seminaries, including the liberal arts Mackenzie college in São Paulo, and an agricultural school. The Presbyterian schools in particular later became the nucleus of the governmental system. In 1887 Protestants in Rio de Janeiro formed a hospital. The missionaries largely reached a working-class audience, as the Brazilian upper-class was wedded either to Catholicism or to secularism. By 1914, Protestant churches founded by American missionaries had 47,000 communicants, served by 282 missionaries. In general, these missionaries were more successful than they had been in Mexico, Argentina or elsewhere in Latin America.\n\nThe Catholic Church was disestablished in 1890, and responded by increasing the number of dioceses and the efficiency of its clergy. Many Protestants came from a large German immigrant community and they were mostly Lutheran, but they were seldom engaged in proselytizing and grew by natural increase. Most Protestants came from missionary activities sponsored from United States and Europe. There were 700,000 Protestants by 1930, and increasingly they were in charge of their own affairs. In 1930, the Methodist Church of Brazil became independent of the missionary societies and elected its own bishop. Protestants were largely from a working-class, but their networks help speed their upward social mobility.\n\nProtestantism, which has resisted syncretism more than other Christian churches have in the diverse country, established a significant presence in Brazil during the first half of the 20th century and grew during the second half. Protestants accounted for fewer than 5% of the population until the 1960s, but by 2000 made up over 15% of those affiliated with a church. Pentecostals and charismatic groups account for most of this expansion. With their emphasis on personal salvation and moral codes as well as less ideological approach to politics, these groups have developed broad appeal, particularly among the booming urban migrant communities. The political consequences of this shift are still poorly understood, as the fragmentation of the Protestant community after the late 1970s has weakened it as a vehicle for direct political action.\n\nAfter centuries of persecution under the Portuguese colonial rule, which was successful in consolidating Catholicism in the country, Protestant denominations saw a rapid growth in their number of followers since the last decades of the 20th century. \n\nAccording to the 2000 Census, 15.4% of the Brazilian population was Protestant. A recent research conducted by the Datafolha institute shows that 25% of Brazilians are Protestants, of which 19% are followers of Pentecostal denominations. The 2010 Census found that 22.2% were Protestant.\n\nUntil the late 1970s, the majority of Brazilian Protestants belonged to one of the traditional churches – Lutherans, Presbyterians and Baptists mainly – but the Pentecostals, especially from neo-charismatic churches linked to the prosperity doctrine, have increased largely since then. There is also Seventh-day Adventist educational system with over 475 elementary schools, 67 secondary schools, two colleges and a university. The rich and the poor remained traditional Catholics, while most Evangelical Protestants were in the new lower-middle class–known as the \"C class\" (in a A–E classification system).\n\nIn the Brazilian National Congress, there is a powerful Evangelical Caucus.\n\nAccording to 2010 IBGE Census, the following are the biggest Protestant denominations in Brazil. Only those with more than half a million members are listed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4592542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4592542", "title": "Pusat Sains Negara", "text": "Pusat Sains Negara\n\nPusat Sains Negara or National Science Centre is a science centre in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Perched atop a hill on 8 hectares of landscaped grounds at Bukit Kiara on the northwestern fringes of the city, the centre was officially opened on 29 November 1996 by former Prime Minister Tun Dr Mahathir bin Mohamad. The main aim of the science centre is to promote greater understanding and interest in science and technology. The building resembles a truncated cone capped with a geodesic dome. Among the themes featured in the exhibition galleries are an environmental odyssey, pathways to discovery, future world and thinking machines. In addition, National Science Center also has a new branch in Mount Keriang, Kedah which opened on 1 March 2010.\n\nThe concept of the establishment of a National Science Centre (PSN) was conceived in the early 1980s. Council of Scientific Research and Development (NCSRD) has played an important role in their concept of the establishment of a National Science Centre with the objective of which is to create awareness and understanding of science and technology among Malaysians. Given the establishment of a Science Centre with all the requirements is a though that requires research and planning, then proposed the establishment of a temporary Science Center as a preliminary step. For this purpose, a government house at the address JKR 641, Jalan Kelantan, Federal Hill, Kuala Lumpur has been modified. On 5 April 1986, while the Science Centre was officially opened by YB Datuk Amar Stephen Yong, who doubles as Minister of Science, Technology and the Environment at the time. Since its inception the Science Center has added a collection of exhibits, most of which are of a roadshow.\n\nThe dream to create a building came true in 1990 when the National Science Centre project has been approved under the Ninth Malaysia-5 to be implemented under the Ninth Malaysia Plan 6. Construction of building and basic infrastructure began in November 1991. On 27 February 1992, Mr Abdul Ghafar bin Baba (now called \"Tun\") as Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia, the project officially National Science Centre in Bukit Kiara, Kuala Lumpur. Construction work continued and was completed in November 1993. Aquarium tunnel construction project began in September 1993 and was completed in August 1994. National Science Centre building design built is unique in that resembles a truncated cone capped by a geodesic dome. This design is a testament to the creative and innovative Public Works Department is also the implementation agency.\n\nThe center is equipped with an Integrated Management System (IBMS) and has a two-level exhibition gallery space with an area of 6,717.6 square meters. In the center, there is a multimedia library, a science lab, three workshops, two auditorium and a multipurpose hall. The area surrounding the National Science Center's educational landscape theme and the main feature is an ecological landscape, herb garden and children's playground. The exhibits are available at the National Science Centre landscape focused on the physical and biological sciences as well as exhibits complement the gallery exhibition.\n\nSimultaneously with the construction of the building, an interactive science exhibits were designed by local and foreign experts. Fabrication works for Level 1 exhibits began in August 1994 and was completed in May 1995. Next, fabrication work exhibits Level 2 is starting in October 1995 and was completed in September 1996. To ensure that the exhibits are always in line with the advancement of Science and Technology, the Centre is planning to upgrade the existing exhibits a continuous basis to get the traffic going. After a decade in operation, while the Science Center was officially closed on 15 April 1996. Now, National Science Center has many additional exhibition houses a wide variety of materials for visitors viewing.\n\nOpen Saturday to Thursday at 9.00 am - 5.00 pm.<br>\n\nClosed on Fridays for maintenance and on Hari Raya.\n\nThe tickets can be purchased at the ticket counter inside the building. Walk through the main entrance of the main building towards the information counter. The ticket counter is located near the information counter.\n\nAdult - MYR 6.00\n\nChildren - MYR 3.00\n\nPusat Sains Negara, Persiaran Bukit Kiara, 50662, Bukit Kiara, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.\n\nPusat Sains Negara is accessible by rapidKL bus T852 (an MRT feeder route) from Pusat Bandar Damansara MRT station.\n\n"}
{"id": "11370501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11370501", "title": "Quilombola", "text": "Quilombola\n\nA quilombola () is a resident of a \"quilombo\" in Brazil. They are the descendants of Afro-Brazilian slaves who escaped from slave plantations that existed in Brazil until abolition in 1888. The most famous \"quilombola\" was Zumbi and the most famous \"quilombo\" was Palmares.\n\nMany \"quilombolas\" live in poverty.\n\nIn the 16th century, slavery was becoming common across the Americas, particularly in Brazil. Slaves were shipped overseas from Africa via a massive Atlantic slave trade network. In Brazil, most worked at sugar plantations and mines, and were brutally tortured. However, slaves started to escape. According to legend, among them was Aqualtune, a former Angolan princess and general enslaved during a Congolese war. Shortly after reaching Brazil, the pregnant Aqualtune escaped with some of her soldiers and fled to the Serra da Bariga region. It is believed that here, Aqualtune founded a quilombo, or a colony of Quilombolas, called Palmares. Palmares was one of the largest quilombos in Brazil. In the 1630s, palmares was inherited by Aqualtune's son, Ganga Zumba, who ruled the city from a palace. The inhabitants used African style forges to make metal plows and scythes to harvest fields of corn, rice and manioc and created agricultural forests of palm and breadfruit. Palmares and other quilombos during the Quilombola's glory days were surrounded by palisades, camouflaged pits filled with deadly stakes, and paths lined with lacerating caltrops. Palmares was behind many raids of Portuguese ports and towns. Lisbon, seeing Palmares as a direct challenge to its colonial status, declared war on the Quilombolas. Twenty attacks on Palmares failed. But the constant attacks wore down Ganga Zumba, and in 1678 he agreed to stop accepting new slaves and move out of the mountains to safety. However, Ganga Zumba's nephew, Zumbi, saw this as betrayal and poisoned his uncle before tearing up the treaty with the Portuguese. Colonial forces continued the relentless attacks, and in the end Zumbi was unable to cope. In 1694, the Portuguese finally destroyed Palmares and killed hundreds of its citizens, ending the glory days of the Quilombolas. Zumbi and Palmares survived only as symbols of resistance.\n\nOther quilombos had emerged during the age of Palmares and the Aqualtune Dynasty. The fleeing slaves had befriended and allied with Brazilian natives. They interbred, and today most of the Quilombola population is part African-Brazilian, part Indian. Quilombos were mainly located deep in the jungles, far from European influence, and after the fall of Palmares, all the quilombos either went into hiding or were wiped out by Europeans. Most of the Quilombolas remained hidden so successfully it was assumed they had been destroyed or died out. They dropped farming at the risk of being discovered and continued the agricultural forest practice. The Quilombolas adopted a lifestyle that was a cross of Portuguese and Indian culture, as well as their traditional African culture, to make a colourful cultural blend. Until the 1970s, the Quilombolas were a totally unknown race and assumed extinct. However, in the 70s, deforestation reached their lands. Loggers, assuming them to be squatters trying to steal property, forced them off their land at gunpoint and unwittingly stole their land. Nobody believed they were really surviving Quilombolas until the 80s. Enraged ranchers claimed they were squatters pretending to be Quilombolas to get land and make a quick buck. Eventually, they were accepted as Quilombolas, but ranchers still kept stealing their land. The most avid supporter of the Quilombolas was Chico Mendes, who argued for the preservation of the jungle and its native people, including the Quilombolas.\n\nIn 2003, President Lula passed Decreto 4.887/2003, which recognized Quilombo communities and their claims to the land they inhabited. The decree detailed the processes of titling and demarcation of the Quilombo land. Right wing opponents filed a lawsuit which suggested that Lula’s decree was unconstitutional. The ruling on the case was postponed for over 3 years, which resulted in President Temer suspending all new titles and demarcations of the lands until a ruling was made on the constitutionality of the decree. On February 8th, 2018, the Brazilian Supreme Court (STF) rejected the legal action and voted in favor of Lula’s decree. \n\nThough Quilombola land rights are secured by the STF for now, the communities still face many obstacles today, like the constitutional amendment PEC 215, which has been proposed and is up for debate in Congress. Currently, the executive branch in Brazil has power to demarcate Quilombola territories. PEC 215, if passed, would give Congress exclusive authority to oversee demarcation of indigenous land. The constitutional amendment would also give Congress power over land which has already been approved for demarcation. PEC 215 could potentially take away land titles from 219 Quilombolas. \n\nApproximately forty percent of the twelve million Africans imported to the Americas to be enslaved landed in Brazil in the late 16th century. Many enslaved Afro-Brazilians escaped bondage by running away and occupying land which led to the creation of Quilombos. Those who live in these autonomous communities are referred to as Quilombolas and for many years many Quilombolas have been struggling to keep and earn titles to their land in the face of modernization, gentrification, and oppressive regimes in Brazil.\n\nWithout land titles, the quilombolas don’t have access to social benefits, such as subsidized housing. But threats are also looming from illegal loggers and gold miners encroaching on quilombola land, activists have said.\n\nOn March 3, 2018, Simão Jatene, the governor of Pará, signed a document giving land titles for more than 220,000 hectares of Amazon forest to an isolated community populated by descendants of enslaved people who escaped centuries ago. However, with a new administration in office, it is likely that there will be changes to current policy regarding quilombolas. Brazil’s president-elect, Jair Bolsonaro, has said: \"They [quilombolas] don’t do anything! I don’t think they even serve for procreation anymore.\" In 2017, during a speech at the Hebraica club, Bolsonaro stated: \"If I [become president], there won’t be any money for NGOs … You will not have a centimeter demarcated for indigenous reserves or quilombolas.\"\n\nThe national black movement and the black rural communities in the northern regions of Pará and Maranhão gathered political momentum throughout the 1980s and succeeded in having quilombola land rights introduced into the 1988 Constitution in the form of Article 68. Regional and national organisations working to fight racial discrimination formed an alliance in 1986 that played an important role in the grassroots political action that resulted in Article 68. Black militants across Brazil demanded reparation and the recognition of the detrimental effects of slavery, including preventing black communities from accessing land. The Black Movement explicitly decided to make land central to their political agenda during the constitutional debates. They capitalised on the perception that there were very few quilombos and that it would thus be mainly a symbolic gesture in order to get it into the Constitution. It was assumed that any community would have to prove its direct descent from a runaway slave settlement.\n\nBlack federal representative Benedita da Silva was the main proponent in Congress of the inclusion of quilombo land rights in the new Constitution, which was drawn up after Brazil’s military dictatorship ended in 1986. Article 68 stated that “definitive ownership will be recognized, and the respective title will be issued by the State, to those descendants of the maroon communities occupying their lands.” Quilombo members cannot be legally evicted, except by the federal government (which has challenged at least two certified quilombos: Rio dos Macacos whose claims overlapped a Navy base and Alcântara where a space station has been built). The inclusion of quilombo communities in the Constitution was the first recognisable government action towards the reparation of historical injustice against slave descendants.\n\nThroughout the second half of the 1990s and the early 2000s, hundreds of black peasant communities in Brazil began the legal process for official recognition. Despite a government attempt in 1999 to restrict the application of Article 68, there was increasing black rural mobilisation and growing criticism of the categorisation of rural black communities solely as the result of colonial social relations. In 2003, the government of President Luiz Inácio “Lula” da Silva issued Presidential Decree 4887 that categorized quilombo descendants as “self-designated ethno-racial groups who have their own historical trajectory, specific territorial relations, and a presumed black ancestry related to the historical oppression they have suffered”. Through the political pressure exerted by black peasants throughout Brazil, the government established explicitly that quilombos should be defined by their being communities formed by black peasants in general, part of the present agrarian structure and contemporary society, not only by their relation to the past as runaway-descendants.\n\nThe number of recognised quilombos increased from 29 in 2003 to over 2600 in 2016, with many more communities applying that have yet to be recognized. They are situated across the whole of the country, in urban and rural locations, in forests and even on islands. There are those that consist of just a few extended families and others that number thousands. The land claimed by these communities totals about 4.4 million acres.\n\n\nOsorio & Baldi (2010) ‘Supreme Court of Brazil to rule over Quilombo communities’ rights to land – arguments for a protective approach’\n\nPlanas, R. (2014) Brazil’s ‘Quilombo’ Movement May Be The World’s Largest Slavery Reparations Program. Huffington Post\n\nRedman, Paul & Renold, Jaye (2015) Freedom: Quilombo land title struggle in Brazil Film looks at two Quilombola communities, one with no land title and one benefitting from legal recognition, and examines the disparities between them plus further context.\n"}
{"id": "20631249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20631249", "title": "Red Cross of Cape Verde", "text": "Red Cross of Cape Verde\n\nRed Cross of Cape Verde (Portuguese: \"Cruz Vermelha de Cabo Verde\") was founded in 1984. It has its headquarters on Avenida Andrade Corvo in Praia, Cape Verde.\n\n"}
{"id": "27931251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27931251", "title": "Russian espionage in the United States", "text": "Russian espionage in the United States\n\nRussian espionage in the United States has occurred since at least during the Cold War, by the Soviet Union, and likely well before. According to United States government, by 2007 it had reached Cold War levels.\n\nAccording to former Russia’s Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU) Colonel Stanislav Lunev, \"SVR and GRU (Russia's political and military intelligence agencies, respectively) are operating against the U.S. in a much more active manner than they were during even the hottest days of the Cold War.\" From the end of the 1980s, KGB and later SVR began to create \"a second echelon\" of \"auxiliary agents in addition to our main weapons, illegals and special agents\", according to former SVR officer Kouzminov. These agents are legal immigrants, including scientists and other professionals. Another SVR officer who defected to Britain in 1996 described details about \"thousand\" Russian agents and intelligence officers, some of them \"illegals\" who live under deep cover abroad.\n\nIn April 2015, CNN reported that \"Russian hackers\" had \"penetrated sensitive parts of the White House\" computers in \"recent months.\" It was said that the FBI, the Secret Service, and other U.S. intelligence agencies categorized the attacks \"among the most sophisticated attacks ever launched against U.S. government systems.\"\n\nPresident Donald Trump ordered the expulsion of 60 Russian intelligence and diplomatic staff from the United States following the poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal. The closure of the consulate in Seattle, Washington was also ordered, based on the belief of US intelligence officials that the consulate was serving as a key base of operations for the Russian intelligence operations in the US.\n\n"}
{"id": "22126666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22126666", "title": "Siah-Posh Kafirs", "text": "Siah-Posh Kafirs\n\nSiah-Posh (\"black-Robed\") Kafirs used to designate the major and dominant group of the Hindu Kush Kafirs inhabiting the Bashgul (\"Kam\") valley of the Kafiristan, now called Nuristan. They were so-called because of the color of the robes they wore. They were distinguished from the Sped-Posh (\"white-robed\") Kafirs (sometimes also called Lal-Posh or \"Red-robed\") by reason of the color of their dress as also because of their language, customs and other characteristics. The Siah-Posh Kafirs (Nuristanis) have sometimes been erroneously confused with Kalasha people, though they are not directly related to the Kalash of the neighboring Chitral Province in Pakistan.\n\nPrior to 1895, the Kafirs of Hindukush were classified into two groups as (i) Siah-Posh and (ii) Safed-Posh. But the British investigator George Scott Robertson who visited Kafiristan and studied the Kafirs for about two years (1889–1891) had improved upon the old classification and re-classified the Kafirs more scientifically into (1) Siah-Posh, (2) Waigulis, (3) Presungulis, or Viron people and (4) Ashkuns. The \"Ashukuns\" are probably allied to the Waigulis. The later three groups of the Kafirs used to be collectively known as Sped-Posh Kafirs.\n\nThe Siah-Posh tribe was further sub-divided into (1) \"Siah-Posh Katirs\" (Kamtoz), (2) \"Siah-Posh Mumans\" (or \"Madugals\"), (3) \"Siah-Posh Kashtoz\" (or \"Kashtan\"), (4) \"Siah-Posh Gourdesh\" (or \"Istrat\") and (5) \"Siah-Posh Kams (or Kamoze)\". The Siah-Posh Katirs (Kamtoz) further comprise (1) the Katirs who occupy twelve village of the lower Bashgul (Kam) country, (2) the Kti or Katawar Siah-Posh Kafirs live in the Kti valley possessing two village. (3) the Kulam Siah-Posh Katirs living in the Kulam country and controlling four villages. (4) and the Ramguli Katirs, the most numerous among the Siah-Posh Kafirs living in the most western part of Kafiristan on the Afghan frontier. The Ramgulis Katirs control twenty four village of the Ramgul valley from which they derive their name \n\nAll Siah-Posh groups of Kafirs are regarded as of common origin. The Siah-Posh Katirs themselves admit of common origin and general relationship to each other. They all have a common dress and customs and they do not speak precisely same language, but the difference in their speech is more a difference of dialect than radical distinction of language. The Kati language or its dialects are spoken by various Siah-Posh communities.\n\nNicholas Barrington et al. report that the Sped-Posh Kafirs (Waigulis and Presungulis) refer to all \"Siah-Posh Kafirs\" (including the Kamoz) as Katirs and regard them of the same stock linguistically and ethnographically.\n\nAccording to American ethnographer Richard Strands, the Bashgul valley Kafirs have various designations like Kata, Kom, Mumo, Ksto, Bini, Jamco and Jasi etc. But they are also called by other names like Kamtozi/Kantozi, Kamozi, Kam, Katir etc.\n\nWhile the Siah-Posh \"Kamtoz\" Katirs of the lower Bashgul valley are the most numerous, the Siah-Posh \"Kam or Kamoz/Kamoje\" Kafirs of the upper Bashgul valley were the most intractable and fierce and to be most dreaded for their military prowess.\n\n\nGeographical Dictionary of Ancient and Medieval India and several other authorities note that the Siah-Posh tribe living in Hindukush mountains descended from the ancient Kambojas \n\nWhile discussing the Kambojas, H. H. Wilson and several other authorities also acknowledge that there is an apparent trace of their (\"Kambojas' \") name in the Camojis of Kafirstan (Nuristan) who may have retreated to the mountains before the advance of the Turk tribes.\n\nThe physiognomic features and other physical characteristics of the Siah-Posh tribes resemble those of the Kamboj population of greater Panjab(Pakistan). Like the (\"unmixed\") Kamboj, they have fairly tall stature, fair-body color, light brown or some times green eyes, brown and some times blond hair, slender and straight or acquiline noses, high physical and mental tenacity and stamina etc.\n\nThe \"Siah-posh\" Kafirs of the Hindukush ranges, who used to be collectively known as \"Kamoges\" or \"Kamojis\" (Sanskrit Kambojis or Kambojas) are stated to have been a remain of a considerable ancient people among whom were original Kashmerians and a greater part of Badakshan and Kabol as far as Deggan tribes...and on the southern face of the higher ridges of Himalaya extending to an unknown distance...Though whole of their pristine population being subjected to Muslim conquerors in the Middle Ages, and having mixed with them, they have now lost their pristine individuality of national character but still among the \"Kabulis\", in particular, it is still not infrequent to observe heads and figures \"that might serve for models to the sculptors who would portray a Jupiter or a Mars according to the refined idealism of the ancient Greeks\". The Kafirs have oval faces, their brows are well-arched and the nose and mouth even more refined than the Greeks. They are still fairer, generally, with lighter hair and gray eyes. Blending with the nearest black-haired tribes, the ancestors of the Kamoges are believed to have given rise to ancient Persians and with the faired-haired on the north, they are said to have produced the handsome tribes of the Goths. The name \"Kamoges\" or \"Kamojis\" apparently reminds one of the ancient Kambojas living in Hindukush, Pamirs as well as in Badakshan. (See: Kamboja Location). The Siah-Posh clans of Kams, Kamoz/Kamoges and Kamtoz, as stated above, are said to have descended from the ancient Kambojas.\n\nThe first reference to Siah-Posh Kafirs occurs in Timur's invasion of Afghanistan in 1398 CE. Timur's autobiography (Tuzak-i-Timuri) amply attests that he had battled both with the Katirs as well as the Kam sections of the Siah-Posh (black-robed) Kafirs of the Hindukush mountains.\n\nTimur invaded Afghanistan in March, 1398. On the basis of local complaints of ill-treatment and extortions filed by the Muslims against the Kafirs, Timur personally attacked the \"Kators\" of the Siah-Posh group located north-east of Kabul in Eastern Afghanistan. The Kators left their fort \"Najil\" and took refuge at the top of the hill. Timur razed the fort to ground, burnt their houses and surrounded the hill where the Kator had collected for shelter. The relic of the historic fort is said to still exist a little north to Najil in the form of a structure known as \"Timur Hissar\" (Timur's Fort). After a tough fight, some of the Kators were defeated and were instantly put to death while the others held out against heavy odds for three days. Timur offered them \"death\" or \"Islam\". They chose the latter, but soon recanted and attacked the regiment of Muslim soldiers during night. The latter being on guard, fought back, killed numerous Kators and took 150 as prisoners and put them to death afterwards.\nNext day, Timur ordered his troops to advance on all four sides to \"kill all men, enslave the women and children and plunder or lay waste all their property\". In his autobiography called \"Tuzak-i-Timuri\", Timur proudly boasts of the \"towers of the skulls of the Kators which he built on the mountain in the auspicious month of Ramazan A.H. 800\" (1300 CE) \n\nAgain, according to Timur's autobiography (\"Tuzak-i-Timuri\"), a military division of ten thousand Muslim soldiers was sent against the Siah-Posh (Kam) Kafirs under the command of General Aglan Khan to either slay these infidels or else to convert them into Islam. Tuzak-i-Timuri frankly admits that the regiment was badly routed by a small number of Siah-Posh Kafirs. The Muslim forces had to flee from the battle-field leaving their horses and armor. Another detachment had to be sent under Muhammad Azad which fought gallantly and recovered the horses and the armor lost by General Aglan and came back home, leaving the Siah-Posh alone.\n\nIt is notable that Timur does not boast of any killings or imprisonment of the Siah-Poshes as he does for the Katirs and numerous other communities of India proper. Also, he gives no further details of his conflict with the Siah-Poshes in his Tuzak-i-Timuri after this encounter, which clearly shows that the outcome of the fight against the Siah-Poshes was very costly and shameful for Timur.\n\nOther references to these Kafirs are made in the fifteenth and later in sixteenth century during the Mughal period.\n\nIn 1839, the Kafirs sent a deputation to Sir William Macnaghten in Jalalabad claiming relationship with the fair skinned British troops who had invaded the country \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51973240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51973240", "title": "Southern Lurs", "text": "Southern Lurs\n\nSouthern Lurs (Southern Lurish: لݸرَلِ جنۈبی) are a large part of Lurish people who natively speak Southern Lurish language a branch of Western Iranian languages, and are an Iranic people. They occupy some regions in Southwest of Iran including Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad (fully), Sotheastern parts of Khuzestan (Behbahan, Omidiye, Hendijan, Ramhormoz and Bagh-e Malek counties) Northwestern parts of Fars (Mamasani, Rostam, Lamerd, Kazerun, Sepidan and Eqlid counties), and Western parts of Bushehr Province (Deylam, Ganaveh and Dashtestan counties).\nThe exact number of Southern Lurs is unknown, due to the absence of recent and extensive census data. The most recent documented statistics concerning their language are available for the year 1999, where is estimated about 900,000 ethnic population (1.43% of the whole population in Iran).\n\nSouthern Lurish language is the southernmost section of Lurish language family. Lurish is a Western Iranian language continuum spoken by the Lurs in Western Asia. Lurish language forms five language groups known as Feyli lurish, Central Lurish, Bakhtiari, Laki and the Southern Lurish. The Lurish language is derived and descended from Pahlavi language and in comparison with other Iranian languages has been less affected by foreign invaders language e.g. Arabic and Turkic. An important feature of Southern Lurish is some common characteristics like plural suffixes (al, yal and gal) that is common with Northern Lurish dialects including Laki and Feyli lurish that are not seen in Bakhtiari and central (Minjai) Lurish. In northern parts, the language is highly amenable to Bakhtiari and in southern regions is slightly affected by Persian language.\n\nThe authority of tribal elders remains a strong influence among the nomadic population. It is not as dominant among the settled urban population. As is true in other Lurish communities and Kurdish societies, southern Lurish women have much greater freedom than women in other groups within the region.\n\nAs a subdivision of Lurish clothing, a special clothing system distinguishes Southern Lurs form their adjacent societies. In recent years, due to cultural changes male clothing is very less in use but female clothing is commonplace.\n\nSouthern Lurish traditional dance is an integral section of their culture and probably grew in close association with traditional Lurish music. Southern Lurish dances include both circle dance and dance double and like Kurdish dance it is mixed-gender that distinguishes them from other Muslim neighbors. Dasmaal Baazi (handkerchief dance) a circle dance is the most popular dance and includes different performing styles like Ashtafi-manganaa. Chubazi (twig dance) is a special dance double that is performed in Celebrations and joys and is inspired by the heroic battles.\n\nSouthern Lurs are predominantly Shia Muslims.\n\nThe most famous person of Southern Lurs is Rais Ali Delvari, an independence fighter and anti-British colonialism activist who organized popular resistance against the British troops in this clashes, Rais Ali was killed .Then the Britishs used pro-British tribes to scatter the enemy into the hinterland.At the end, local tribal leaders murdered the British vice consul (a Persian) in Shiraz. and now is commemorated as a national hero in Iran. KayLohraas Baatuli is a well-known local hero. who fought for years against Reza Shah Pahlavi troops in Boyer Ahmad and Mamasani.\n"}
{"id": "51358882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51358882", "title": "Taliaa Club Qatar", "text": "Taliaa Club Qatar\n\nTaliaa Club Qatar (Arabic: قطر الطليعة نادي), is a Qatari cultural club that was founded in 1959 with the goals of the club based in foundations and principles of a sports club, but with more of a focus on intellectual expression and renaissance. \n\nThe idea for this club initially emerged in 1952, when Khalifa Khalid Al Suwaidi, Mubarak Saeed Ali, and Saleh Mohammed al-Sulaiti, Khalifa Al-Kuwari, Hamad al-Hamidi, Ahmed Abdullah al-Khal, Abdul Latif al-Jaber, Khalid al-Raban, Ahmed al- Marfiat, and a number of their friends, inspired by the success of the Egyptian Revolution of 1952 and the revolutionary tide at the time, would meet frequently for discussions of that nature. Though they claimed themselves to be a cultural club, the group acted more as a political club or party. \n\nIn 1958, the group decided to collect monthly contributions in order to secure a meeting location for the club. Among these initial donors, was club member, Khalid bin Mohammed al-Rabban, currently the Deputy Chairman of Al-Raban Holding Group and the chairman and managing director of Qatar Primary Materials Company (QPMC). In 1959, the group decided that they wanted to create an official club of young Muslims and extended membership to classmates and colleagues in order to create a space for social and religious dialogue between members. That same year the club was founded after the members drafted a statute for the club, created a provision of material resources and contributions, and created a focus for membership development using a preliminary list of names for potential candidates from the Arab Bank. \n\nIn 1960, the club struggled to find a meeting place, but was able to create a board of directors, as voted upon by the general assembly. The board consisted of Khalifa Al-Kuwari as president, Khalid al-Raban as vice president, Mohammed Youssef al-Ali as secretary, Mubarak Rashid al-Hitmi as treasurer, Ahmed Abdullah al-Khal as secretary of cultural activity, Nasser Ahmed the second as secretary of social activity, and Ahmed Abdullah al-Maliki as a sitting board member. \n\nThe club’s mission statement was centered on ethics, work and dedication with the goal of raising cultural level and social awareness among youth. The club stated in its document of statues that it would interfere in religious and political matters. \n\nClub activity was focused on the club magazine, which was published monthly, trips throughout Qatar to visit cultural landmarks, lectures, debates, poetry readings, and the club theater on topics or issues of choice. Most controversial of these was the theater and the poetry readings. After putting on a provocative political play written by Saleh Mohammed al-Sulaiti, portraying the Arabs in Palestine in a violent struggle, authorities took notice of the clubs movements that inspired the use of violence. The club also published a photo of a missile. The final straw for authorities came shortly after the club put on a debate between Ahmed al-Tager and Hassan Ali Abdullah Youssef in late 1960 regarding the political struggle between nationalists and leftists in Iraq during the reign of Abd al-Karim Qasim. \n\nIn 1961, tanks raided the club after Friday prayers, and members were taken to prison. Members were placed in isolation and were restricted from receiving any visitors in prison. Among those arrested were Khalid bin Mohammad al-Rabban, Mohammed al-Ali, and Khalifa Al-Kuwari. They spent 21 days in prison, and decided to go on a hunger strike. After the intervention of a few relatives of the members, they were released from prison. Some members who were imprisoned referred to those who assisted in their release as servants of God. \n"}
{"id": "38107045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38107045", "title": "The Miller Inquiry", "text": "The Miller Inquiry\n\nThe Miller Inquiry was a Kenya Judicial Commission appointed to inquire into allegations involving former Attorney General of Kenya Charles Mugane Njonjo. The commission was chaired by Cecil Henry Ethelwood Miller.\n\nThe tribunal consisted of:\n\nThe prosecution was led by Lee Muthoga with the Defence led by William Deverell and Paul Muite.\n\n"}
{"id": "44056538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44056538", "title": "Universal allocation per child", "text": "Universal allocation per child\n\nUniversal Allocation Per Child () is a social security program in Argentina. It pays a monthly subsidy to families for each child under 18 or disabled. Despite the name, it is not yet a universal program, and currently applies only to families who do not have a regular reported income. A plan is in place to enlarge the scope of the program.\n\nIt was established in 2009 by a Necessity and Urgency Decree, signed by president Cristina Fernández de Kirchner.\n"}
{"id": "8703546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8703546", "title": "Wife acceptance factor", "text": "Wife acceptance factor\n\nWife acceptance factor, wife approval factor, or wife appeal factor (WAF) is an assessment of design elements that either increase or diminish the likelihood a wife will approve the purchase of expensive consumer electronics products such as high-fidelity loudspeakers, home theater systems and personal computers. Stylish, compact forms and appealing colors are commonly considered to have a high WAF. The term is a tongue-in-cheek play on electronics jargon such as \"form factor\" and \"power factor\" and derives from the gender stereotype that men are predisposed to appreciate gadgetry and performance criteria whereas women must be wooed by visual and aesthetic factors.\nLarry Greenhill first used the term \"Wife Acceptance Factor\" in September 1983, writing for \"Stereophile\" magazine, but Greenhill credited fellow reviewer and music professor Lewis Lipnick with the coining of the term. Lipnick himself traces the origin to the 1950s when hi-fi loudspeakers were so large that they overwhelmed most living rooms. Lipnick's wife, actress Lynn-Jane Foreman, arrived at a different term: marriage interference factor (MIF). Foreman suggested that audiophile husbands should balance their large and ugly electronic acquisitions with gifts to the wife made on the basis of similar expense, with opera tickets, jewelry and vacations abroad among the suggestions. While the modern-day WAF moves inversely to MIF, either can be used to achieve the same outcome.\n"}
{"id": "16090142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16090142", "title": "Women in South Africa", "text": "Women in South Africa\n\nIn general, all racial and ethnic groups in South Africa have long-standing beliefs concerning gender roles, and most are based on the premise that women in South Africa are less important, or less deserving of power, than men. Some African traditional social organizations are male centered and male dominated. Afrikaner religious beliefs, too, include a strong emphasis on the theoretically biblically based notion that women's contributions to society should normally be approved by, or be on behalf of, men. Modern sexism and Christianity were introduced into South Africa by the ancestors of the Afrikaner diaspora.\n\n20th century economic and political developments presented South African women with both new obstacles and new opportunities to wield influence. For example, labor force requirements in cities and mining areas have often drawn men away from their homes for months at a time, and, as a result, women have borne many traditionally male responsibilities in the village and home. Women have had to guarantee the day-to-day survival of their families and to carry out financial and legal transactions that otherwise would have been reserved for men.\n\nApartheid imposed new restrictions on African women beginning in the 1950s. Many lived in squalor in the former homelands, where malnutrition, illness, and infant mortality were much higher than in urban areas. Other women who followed their husbands into cities or mining areas lived in inadequate, and often legal, many women are forced to do house work and housing near industrial compounds. Women often left their own families to commute long distances to plow-wage jobs in the domestic work force in white neighborhoods. Substantial numbers were temporary workers in agriculture; and a growing number of women joined the burgeoning industrial work force, as has been carefully researched in Iris Berger's 'Threads of Solidarity: Women in South African Industry', 1900-1990.\n\nWomen became the major source of resistance to many race-related restrictions during the apartheid era, especially the pass laws, which required Africans to carry documents permitting them to be in white-occupied areas. The Women's Defence of the Constitution League, later known as the Black Sash, was formed in 1955, first to demonstrate against such laws and later to assist pass-law violators. Black Sash established pass-law advice centers in many cities and helped reduce sentences or assist violators in other ways.\n\nThe African National Congress Women's League (ANCWL), formed in 1943, was able to organize more than 20,000 women to march on government buildings in Pretoria to protest against the pass laws and other apartheid restrictions in 1955. Their protests eventually failed, however. In the early 1960s, pass-law restrictions were extended to women and new legislation restricted black women without steady employment to stays of no more than seventy-two hours in any urban area. Also in 1964, many senior ANC leaders were arrested, and others fled from South Africa or went underground, and the ANCWL became almost defunct.\n\nWomen continued to join the urban work force, and by the late 1980s, women made up at least 90 percent of the domestic work force and 36 percent of the industrial work force, according to labor union estimates. However, as with the rest of the world, women's wages were lower than men's even for the same job,positions normally held by women had long hours and few benefits,e.g. sick leave; women often were dismissed without advance notice and without any type of termination pay.\n\nConservative Afrikaner women have organized in support of Afrikaner cultural preservation and apartheid since the 1970s. The Kappiekommando was established in the late 1970s to demand a return to traditional Afrikaner values. This organization was named for its distinctive Voortrekker dress, which caused some young Afrikaners and others to ridicule its members' appearance and their militancy. The Kappiekommando's militant opposition to political reforms eventually contributed to its marginalization, even among staunchly conservative Afrikaners.\n\nThe Afrikanervroue-Kenkrag (AVK), another Afrikaner women's organization, was formed in 1983 and worked primarily to oppose racial integration in schools and other public places. AVK membership grew to about 1,000 during the mid-1980s. The group published a monthly newsletter and cooperated with other Afrikaner organizations, but like the Kappiekommando, the AVK lost support when mainstream Afrikaner political leaders began working toward racial inclusiveness in the 1990s.\n\nThe ANCWL was resurrected in 1990, after the ban on the ANC was lifted, and women in more than 500 towns and cities organized to press for consideration of gender issues in the upcoming constitutional negotiations. At the insistence of its Women's League, the ANC accepted, in principle, the proposal that women should receive one-third of the political appointments in the new government. Other symbolic gains by the ANCWL have included strong policy stands on women's rights and protection against abuse and exploitation, but translating these standards into enforceable laws proved to be a difficult task.\n\nWomen are achieving new prominence in politics as a result of the sweeping political reforms of the 1990s. In 1994 women won election to eighty of the 400 seats in the National Assembly, the only directly elected house of parliament, and a woman, Frene Ginwala, was elected Speaker of the National Assembly. Women also were elected to almost one-third of the seats in the nine provincial assemblies.\n\nNelson Mandela as president appointed two women cabinet ministers in May 1994, and a woman succeeded the late minister of housing, Joe Slovo, after his death in January 1995. Three women were deputy ministers in early 1995. One of these, President Mandela's former wife, Winnie Mandela, was appointed deputy minister of arts, culture, science, and technology.\n\nEliminating violence against women and improving educational opportunities for women are almost universally supported goals in South Africa in the mid-1990s, but these goals receive only rhetorical support, in many cases. More urgent priorities are to eliminate the vestiges of apartheid legislation and to improve economic and social conditions for the very poor, for children, and for other groups that were especially disadvantaged in recent decades. Gender-related inequalities appeared likely to be decried, but relegated to secondary importance, well into the 21st century.\n\nUntil the late 20th century, married women's rights remained restricted by law. The family law has changed gradually throughout the 20th century, with white women being the first to gain rights, and black women in customary marriages being the last. Marriage law has, for most of the 20th century, been based on the Roman-Dutch law concept of marital power of the husband, a doctrine in terms of which a wife was legally an \"incapax\" under the usufructory tutorship (\"tutela usufructuaria\") of her husband. The marital power included the power of the husband to administer both his wife's separate property and their community property. A wife was not able to leave a will, enter into a contract, or sue or be sued, in her own name or without the permission of her husband.\nThe report of the Women's Legal Disabilities Commission in 1949 led to the enacting of the Matrimonial Affairs Act in 1953, which improved the legal status of wives by restricting the marital power, but it did not abolish it. The Matrimonial Property Act of 1984 abolished it prospectively (i.e. for marriages contracted after the act came into force) but not for marriages between black people. An amendment in 1988 abolished it prospectively for marriages of black people under the civil law, but not for marriages contracted under customary law. A further amendment in 1993 repealed the marital power for all civil marriages, whenever they were contracted. The marital power persisted, however, in the Transkei (which was nominally independent from 1976 to 1994) but it was held to be unconstitutional for civil marriages by the High Court in 1999. In 2000, when it came into force, the Recognition of Customary Marriages Act, 1998 abolished the marital power for all marriages under customary law throughout South Africa. Other important changes enacted by 20th century legislation include abolishing the concept of restitution of conjugal rights by the Divorce Act, 1979 (Act No. 70 of 1979), Section 14, as well as enacting several specific laws against domestic violence in the 1990s (see Domestic violence in South Africa). The 21st century has seen different conceptions about marriage: in 2006, South Africa became the fifth country in the world to allow same-sex marriage.\n\nIn South Africa, the practice of marriage by abduction, is known under the name of ukuthwala, and is the custom of abducting young girls and forcing them into marriage, often with the consent of their parents. This practice occurs mainly in rural areas, in particular the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. The girls who are victims of this practice are frequently underage.\n\nIn 2015, the UN General Assembly (UNGA), SABC and ONE launched the Strong Girl Campaign with the aim of engaging South Africans on the importance of South African government putting women and girls at the center of their UNGA commitments where new development goals would be agreed on. The UNGA discussed the new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which would direct world development efforts for the next 15 years.\nThe South African government has produced a number of policies and legislation in pursuit of women’s empowerment. For instance, the Constitution includes Section 9 which promotes equality for all persons and freedom from discrimination and the Employment Equity Act, No 55 (1998) which strives to achieve equality in the workplace by promoting fair treatment in employment. The status of women in South Africa remains to be complicated so far but thanks to the UN and the South African government, some improvements have been made though despite the improvements, there is still so much more which still need for more investments in programs to empower women and girls so as to improve their status and opportunities.\n\nThe rate of sexual violence in South Africa is among the highest in the world. The Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act, 2007 is a comprehensive legal act, which prohibits and punishes sexual violence. Despite the strong legal framework, sexual violence is very common in South Africa; in one study one in four men admitted to having committed rape. It is estimated that there are about 600,000 rape victims per year in the country. Most cases are not reported to authorities. In South Africa, the virgin cleansing myth is still prevalent, leading to high rates of child sexual abuse.\nDuring 2015/16, there were 51,895 crimes of a sexual nature reported to the South African Police Service.\n\nHIV/AIDS in South Africa is a very serious problem. The country has the fourth global rate of infection: in 2016, 18.90% of adults 15-49 years old were living with HIV/AIDS. Only Swaziland, Lesotho and Botswana have a higher rate. Women are much more likely to be infected.\n\nMaternal mortality is one of the lowest in Africa, although still high by global standards.However, in South Africa, there are conflicting reports on the prevalence of maternal and neonatal mortality, derived from both direct and indirect estimation techniques. \n\nSouth Africa is one of the few countries in Africa to have a liberal abortion law: under the \"Choice on Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1996\", abortion is allowed on request during the first trimester of pregnancy, and in special circumstances at later stages.\n\n\n (Data as of 1996.)\n"}
{"id": "34575253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34575253", "title": "Zuruahã", "text": "Zuruahã\n\nThe Zuruahã (also Suruahá, Indios do Coxodoá, and Suruwahá) are an indigenous people of Brazil, living along the Purus River in the state of Amazonas.\n\nThe Zuruahã are an amalgamation of other tribes fleeing disease and violence, especially from the rubber boom. Some of the original Zuruahã traded with the rubber tappers but the tribe contracted influenza, resulting in a high death rate, from 1922 to 1924. The survivors withdrew away from non-native settlements.\n\nThey enjoyed relative isolation from non-natives until the 1970s when missionaries and latex extractors entered their traditional territory. Daniel Everett reports that after first contact with the outside world, some Zuruahá, including eight in a day, have begun to commit suicide by drinking curare. Pressures on their territories results in increased suicide by the Zuruahã. Sustained contact began in 1980. They are hunter-gatherers.\n\nIn 1984, the Zuruahã Project was created to mitigate the adverse effects of outside contact on the Zuruahã people.\n\nZuruahã people speak the Zuruahã language, an Arawá language.\n\n"}
{"id": "2776724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2776724", "title": "Šokci", "text": "Šokci\n\nŠokci (, , ) are an ethnographic group of South Slavs mainly identified as Croats. They are not considered a separate ethnicity in Croatia and elsewhere. They live in various settlements along the Danube and Sava rivers in the historic regions of Slavonia, Baranya, Syrmia and western Bačka. These regions today span eastern Croatia, southeastern Hungary, and northern Serbia. Šokci are considered natives in Slavonia and Syrmia in Croatia.\n\nŠokci are considered to be a native population of Slavonia and Syrmia in Croatia. The Croatian Bureau of Statistics does not record the Šokci as a separate \"narodnost\" (2001). According to the 2011 census in Serbia, 607 people declared as ethnic Šokci. Outside of Slavonia and Syrmia, they live in the settlements of Bački Monoštor, Sonta, Sombor, Bački Breg in Bačka, Serbia, and Hercegszántó in Hungary.\n\nThe term \"Šokac\" (masculine), \"Šokica\" and \"Šokčica\" (feminine), is used for the part of Croatian Ikavian speakers native in Slavonia, Baranja, Bačka and Bosnia. The oldest documents are from 1644-1698, 1702 (population of Đakovo Diocese), \"katolici, Šokci jali Slovinci ... Šokci rehuć Slovinci katolici\". In Croatia, particurarly in Lika it is opposed to term Vlachs (for Orthodox Serbs), and the Serbs pejoratively use it for the Croats. Denominal \"šokčiti\" (\"Catholicize\"), \"šoketati\" (\"to speak Ikavian\"). Eastern Slavonia and western Syrmia in Croatia is often referred to as Šokadija (\"land of the Šokci\"), although the term is not geographically limited, it is rather a general moniker for the Šokac \"ancestral land\". The ethnonym is of unknown etymological derivation, and there are several hypotheses on the origin:\n\nMatija Petar Katančić (1750–1825), the first to theorize on the name, connected the ethnonym with the toponym of \"Succi\" or \"Succus\" in Thrace, found in the work of Ammianus Marcellinus (fl. 353–378). He also derived it from \"šljivov sok\" (plum juice). Ćiro Truhelka derived it from Albanian \"shoq\" < Latin \"sočius\", but comparison to Montenegrin surname Šoć makes it dismissive. Others, including Vuk Karadžić, derived it from Italian word \"sciocco\" (\"frenzied, insane\"). F. Kluge (1924) derived it from German \"schock\", \"a detachment of 60 men\", which was the size of historical border patrols on the Sava. V. Skarić (1932) theorized that it was derived from German \"der Sachse\" (\"Saxon\", sh. \"Sas\"), for which there's lack of historical evidence. Petar Skok derived it from Turkish-Persian noun \"šoh ~ suh\" (\"wicked, shameless, unclean\") with suffix \"-gin, -kin\" (\"unclean\"). In his unfinished etymological dictionary published in 1973, the editors considered most reasonable the Romanian \"şoacăţ\" with primary meaning a mouse, and secondary meaning a mockery for Western Europeans (especially Germans) who dressed in urban fashion, from which derives adjective \"şoacăfesc\" (German), abstraction \"įoacăţie\". From Serbo-Croatian word \"skok\" or \"uskok\" (\"to jump, leap, to jump in\"), or from folk etymology \"šaka\" (\"fist\"), from the way they make the sign of the cross, different from Orthodox's who sign only with three fingers.\n\nThe origin of Šokci people is not completely clear.\n\n\nThe earliest known Ottoman Turkish defter that mentions the Šokci dates from 1615, a \"ferman\" by sultan Ahmed I, dated \"Safer 9, 1024\" according to the Islamic calendar, in which he referred to them as the population of the \"Latin faith\" whose \"religion is completely different from the faith of the Serbs, Greeks and Vlachs\". They are also mentioned in the documents of the Roman Catholic Church where they requested Jeronim Lučić to become the bishop of Bosnia and Slavonia in 1635, and in one writing from the time when Eugene of Savoy invaded Ottoman territory down to Sarajevo in 1697.\n\nIn the 1702 census of Đakovo, one of the cities that was retaken from the Ottoman Empire following the Treaty of Karlowitz, there were 500-600 inhabitants described as Catholic Slav/Slavonian (). Tadija Smičiklas later republished the same census and used the terms \"Slovinci\" and/or \"Šokci\", and claimed 400 inhabitants. According to the contemporary Antun Kanižlić (1699–1766), the term \"Šokci\" was a slang reference to Catholic Slavonians that was used by the Orthodox.\n\nAccording to the Austrian census in Bačka from 1715, Serbs, Bunjevci, and Šokci comprised 97.6% of population. The 1720 census in Bačka recorded 72% Serbs and 22% Bunjevci and Šokci. After the Treaty of Passarowitz (1718), the first Habsburg census recorded in Banat about 20,000 citizens, mostly Serbs.\n\nIn the old Austro-Hungarian censuses there was large number of Šokci, both in Croatia/Slavonia and in Vojvodina. According to the 1840 data, the population of Croatia, Slavonia and Vojvodina numbered 1,605,730 people, of which 777,880 (48%) were Croats, 504,179 (32%) Serbs, and 297,747 (19%) Šokci. The Šokci were concentrated in the Požega, Virovitica, and Syrmia counties, and in the Slavonian Military Frontier.\n\nAccording to the 1910 census in Austria-Hungary, there were 88,209 Bunjevci and Šokci in the Hungarian part.\n\nŠokci living in Croatia and Hungary, as well as many of those living in Serbia, today usually consider themselves to be a subgroup of Croats. In Serbia, Šokci and Bunjevci have been recorded as a separate \"modality\" or national or ethnic affiliation by the national census in 1991 and 2002. Unlike Bunjevci, the other Catholic Slavic group from the same area, Šokci mostly declare themselves as Croats rather than the separate group, and some have also declared themselves Yugoslavs in the census. In the 1991 census, there were 1,922 declared Šokci in what has later become Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and a much larger number of Croats. The population that declared \"Šokci\" as an ethnicity in the 2002 census is small and appears in summary lists under \"Other\", while there were over 70,000 declared Croats. The choice of ethnicity between \"Šokac\" and \"Croat\" that is promoted in Serbia is described by scholars in Croatia as bizarre and harmful, because it exacerbates the Šokac myths of independence and antiquity, puts them into the realm of political folklore and helps provoke various 19th-century conflicts between the Croats and the Serbs.\n\nIn general, the number and the percentage of the Šokci has decreased because of an unwritten policy that each family should have only one child, because they did not wish to divide their estate and other riches in each following generation. Unfortunately such a practice worked up until the 19th/20th century, at which point they were practically overwhelmed in number by the immigrants which had a much larger reproduction rate (certainly over two children per family at the time).\n\nVillages with numerous Šokac population in the region of Bačka are: Sonta (Apatin municipality), Bački Breg and Bački Monoštor (Sombor municipality). In 2002 census in Serbia, most of the inhabitants of these villages declared themselves as Croats.\n\nMost of the Hungarian Šokci live in the Baranya region, particularly in the town of Mohács.\n\nThe Šokci are Roman Catholic by faith and follow the Latin Rite.\n\nThe Šokci speak an old-Shtokavian Slavonian sub-dialect that is almost exclusively spoken by Šokci. The Slavonian dialect has a mixed Ikavian and Ekavian accent: Ikavian is predominant in Posavina, Baranja, Bačka and in the Slavonian sub-dialect enclave of Derventa; and Ekavian in Podravina. There are also enclaves of one accent in the territory of the other, and also of mixed Ekavian–Ikavian and Jekavian–Ikavian accents. In some villages in Hungary, the original Slavic yat sound is preserved.\n\nMany of the traditions of the Šokci are influenced by their environment - they live in the fertile Pannonian plain where they cultivate grains and corn in large fields surrounding their villages. The villages often have one main street (\"šor\") where each subsequent family house has auxiliary buildings and a spacious yard, as well as a water well. The central street is surrounded on both sides by water channels, which have small crossings in order for one to reach the house.\n\nFamilies often keep poultry, particularly ducks and geese, although the main source of meat are the pigs, which are almost inevitably kept by a Šokac. They enjoy pork-based products such as ham, sausages (particularly kulen) and bacon. These products are customarily obtained by the traditional autumn slaughtering. The most common fruit are plums, not least because it is often fermented into liquor called rakija.\n\nThe abundance in which they have traditionally lived has made the Šokci a naturally merry people, who pay a lot of attention to folklore. Each Šokac village inevitably has a cultural society where they cultivate their folk songs and dances. A popular folk custom is the \"bećarac\". They also hold a yearly festivity called the \"Šokačko sijelo\", held over a nine-day period in February, being the largest traditional event in the area of Posavina near Županja, featuring local culture and traditions.\n\nThe most recognisable feature of Šokci culture is their music which is played mostly on the tambura instrument. Many tambura bands achieved nationwide fame in Croatia. The body of the tambura was traditionally made of the wood of maple, poplar or plum trees, while today it's mostly made of spruce or fir trees. Another instruments used in the past was the bagpipe. The traditional wedding festivities are paid much attention to, sometimes even catching the attention of entire villages.\n\nThe traditional outfit of the Šokci, called the \"rubina\", is made of white linen cloth with lace decorations, and the main part of it is a blouse called \"oplećak i krila\". The women mostly wear the entire outfit only in the summer, replacing it with a wool skirt in the winter. The most esteemed decoration of a Šokac outfit are the gold coins known as \"dukati\" (ducats). A rich Šokac girl would have a large number of dukati weaved onto her chest not only as a decoration but as a clear sign that she comes from a wealthy family.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15961206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15961206", "title": "Ɗuwai language", "text": "Ɗuwai language\n\nƊuwai (Dó:aí) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in Jigawa and Kano States, Nigeria.\n\n"}
