{"id": "33223187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33223187", "title": "2004 Quetta Ashura massacre", "text": "2004 Quetta Ashura massacre\n\nThe 2004 Quetta Ashura massacre is the sectarian terrorist attack on Tuesday 2 March 2004 during an Ashura procession in southwestern city of Quetta, in Balochistan province of Pakistan. At least 42 persons were killed and more than 100 wounded in the attack. The attack took place in Liaqat Bazaar Quetta, almost all of the victims were from Hazara ethnic minority of Balochistan. The incident occurred just after the incident of Karbala Ashura bombings in Iraq.\n\nThe Shia Muslim's processions are held throughout world to commemorate the martyrdom of Imam Hussain Ibn Ali every year on the Day of Ashura. Like other parts of Pakistan, Quetta city has a notable population of Shia Muslims who mainly belong to Hazara community. In Quetta, the Ashura procession starts from Alamdar Road, where all the Imambargahs gather from around the city mainly from Hazara Town, then the procession moves to Mezan Chowk, where prayers are offered, and Matam was performed then moves to Liaqat Bazaar and ends on Alamdar Road.\n\nThe Ashura procession was on its traditional route, when it reached the main Bazaar, three terrorist from top a building, threw hand grenades followed by firing with automatic weapons before they blew themselves up, which left around 50 dead and more 100 injured.\n\nThe police identified the assailants bodies after DNA tests and investigations. They belonged to Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ), the banned Pakistani terrorist group. The Police arrested a police constable who allegedly allowed the terrorist to use his house to plan the attack.\n\nA mass funeral was arranged the next day.\n\nUnited Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan condemned the attacks and named it a \"cowardly\" act.\n\nThe, Secretary-General of Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC), Abdulwahed Belkeziz said \n\nThe Embassy of Japan in Islamabad issued a press release \n\nInterior Minister of Pakistan, Faisal Saleh Hayat condemned the attack and said \n\n"}
{"id": "33249271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33249271", "title": "Albert Léon Guérard", "text": "Albert Léon Guérard\n\nAlbert Léon Guérard (1880–1959) was a prominent scholar of Comparative Literature. Guérard taught at Stanford University for many years. A prolific author, he published works on French and European civilization and world literature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12645543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12645543", "title": "Ancient Near Eastern Texts Relating to the Old Testament", "text": "Ancient Near Eastern Texts Relating to the Old Testament\n\nAncient Near Eastern Texts Relating to the Old Testament edited by James B. Pritchard (1st ed. 1950, 2nd ed.1955, 3rd ed. 1969} is an anthology of important historical, legal, mythological, liturgical, and secular texts from the ancient Near East. In spite of the name, the included texts have broad coverage and do not necessarily relate to the Old Testament. William W. Hallo, writing in the \"Journal of the American Oriental Society\" in 1970, described it as \"a modern classic ever since its first appearance in 1950\", because \"for the first time it assembled some of the most significant Ancient Near Eastern texts in authoritative, generously annotated English translations based on the accumulated insight of several generations of scholarship scattered\". It is conventional to cite the work as ANET. ANEP refers to a companion volume \"Ancient Near Eastern Pictures Relating to the Old Testament\" (1st ed. 1954, 2nd ed. 1969), featuring 882 black and white designs and photos. An additional volume of supplementary texts and pictures was published in 1969 as \"The Ancient Near East: Supplementary Texts and Pictures Relating to the Old Testament\". An abridgement of ANET and ANEP was published in a single volume in 1958 as \"The Ancient Near East, Volume I: An Anthology of Texts and Pictures\" with a 2nd edition published in 1965. A second anthology of supplementary material was published in 1975 as \"\"Ancient Near East, Volume 2: A New Anthology of Texts and Pictures\".\"\n\nThe book was published by Princeton University Press, Princeton, New Jersey, in 1950. A second edition, corrected and enlarged, appeared in 1955. A third further enlarged edition appeared in 1969.\n\nI. Myths, Epics and Legends: Egyptian (John A. Wilson); Sumerian (S. N. Kramer); Akkadian (E. A. Speiser); Hittite (Albrecht Goetze); Ugaritic (H. L. Ginsberg)\nII. Legal Texts: Mesopotamia and Asia Minor; Egyptian and Hittite Treaties; Hittite Instructions (Albrecht Goetze); Documents from the Practice of Law\nIII. Historical Texts: Egyptian (John A. Wilson); Babylonian and Assyrian (A. Leo Oppenheim); Hittite (Albrecht Goetze); Palestinian Inscriptions (W. F. Albright)\nAlso:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57798242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57798242", "title": "Archives of African American Music and Culture", "text": "Archives of African American Music and Culture\n\nThe Indiana University Archives of African American Music and Culture (AAAMC), established in 1991, is a material repository covering a range of African American musical idioms and cultural expressions from the post-World War II era. The collections highlight popular, religious, and classical music, with genres ranging from blues and gospel to R&B and contemporary hip hop. The AAAMC also houses extensive materials related to the documentation of Black radio. \n\nThe purpose of the Archives of African American Music and Culture is to establish a\nunique primary and secondary source material collection of African-American music and\nculture where such materials are scarce or nonexistent, and to preserve and disseminate these materials\nfor research and instructional purposes. In doing so, its mission is to provide these materials to the general public through outreach\nprograms such as live performances, exhibitions, seminars, workshops, and summer music\ncamps and to engage in collaborative research and creative projects with units at Indiana University as\nwell as with state and national institutions and associations. In addition, AAAMC develops instructional multi-media\nmaterials such as websites, CD-ROM programs, and video documentaries related to various\naspects of African American music and provides practical experience in archiving and \npreparation of materials for public use. \n\nThe AAAMC supports the research of scholars, students, and the general public worldwide by providing access to holdings which include oral histories, photographs, musical and print manuscripts, audio and video recordings, educational broadcast programs, and the personal papers of individuals and organizations concerned with Black music. The repository also encourages exploration of its collections and related topics through a variety of public events, print and online publications, and pedagogical resources.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40040370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40040370", "title": "Augmented Reality Markup Language", "text": "Augmented Reality Markup Language\n\nThe Augmented Reality Markup Language (ARML) is a data standard to describe and interact with augmented reality (AR) scenes. It has been developed within the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) by a dedicated ARML 2.0 Standards Working Group. ARML consists of both an XML grammar to describe the location and appearance of virtual objects in the scene, as well as ECMAScript bindings to allow dynamic access to the properties of the virtual objects, as well as event handling, and is currently published in version 2.0. ARML focuses on visual augmented reality (i.e. the camera of an AR-capable device serves as the main output for augmented reality scenarios).\n\nARML is built on a generic object model that allows serialization in several languages. Currently, ARML defines an XML serialization, as well as a JSON serialization for the ECMAScript bindings. The ARML object model consists of three main concepts:\n\nThe definition of a \"Feature\" is reused from the Geography Markup Language (GML) and describes the physical object that should be augmented. The physical object is described by a set of metadata, including an ID, a name and a description. A Feature has one or more Anchors.\n\nAn Anchor describes the location of the physical object in the real world. Four different Anchor types are defined in ARML:\n\nGeometries describe the location of an object through a set of fixed coordinates. WGS84 (latitude, longitude, altitude) is used as the default coordinate reference system, other arbitrary coordinate reference systems can be supplied if required. ARML allows 0- (Point), 1- (LineString) and 2-dimensional (Polygon) geometries. Geometry Anchors reuse the syntax as defined in GML3. As an example, the following snippet defines the location of the Wiener Riesenrad.\n\nTrackables are patterns that are searched, recognized and tracked in the video screen coming from the camera of the device. A wide variety of different tracking technologies exist, including QR codes, Natural features, 3D and Face Tracking. As all these tracking types use different algorithms and technologies, the definition of a Trackable is abstracted and split into two parts, a Tracker and its associated Trackables. A Tracker describes the technology (or algorithm) with which its associated Trackables should be tracked, using URIs identifying the algorithm. The Trackable itself describes the pattern the algorithm should look for in the video stream.\n\nExample: A natural feature tracker and an associated Trackable\nRelativeTo Anchors allow the definition of a location relative to other Anchors or the user's position. The former allows the setup of a scene and the location of all included virtual objects based on a single Anchor, like a Trackable placed on a table. The latter allows for scenarios where the actual location of the user is irrelevant. The virtual objects are simply placed around the user, regardless of his or her physical location.\n\nContrary to the previous three Anchor types, ScreenAnchors do not describe a location in the 3-dimensional virtual scene. Instead, they define an area on the device screen, allowing for status bars and the like.\n\nVisualAssets describe the appearance of the virtual objects in the augmented scene. ARML allows various kinds of VisualAssets to be described, including plain text, images, HTML content and 3D models. VisualAssets can be oriented (either to always automatically face the user, or to maintain a specific static orientation) and scaled. Additionally, visibility conditions can be applied (i.e. the Asset is only visible on the screen if the distance to the user is within certain boundaries).\n\nIn late 2009, Wikitude (formerly Mobilizy), the creators of the Wikitude World Browser, started an early initiative on creating a format all AR Browsers at that time could adhere to, called the Augmented Reality Markup Language (ARML). This format is now called ARML 1.0 and serves as an input format for the Wikitude World Browser.\n\nIn late 2011, Martin Lechner, Wikitude's CTO and the main driver of the ARML initiative, established the Augmented Reality Markup Language 2.0 Standards Working Group (ARML 2.0 SWG) within the OGC. Its goal was to create an internationally accepted standard for Augmented Reality, based on the ideas of ARML 1.0 and similar formats. During ISMAR in Atlanta in November 2012, the first ARML 2.0 specification was officially published, making ARML 2.0 an official OGC Candidate Standard.\n\nARML 2.0 is reusing ideas, structure, syntax and semantics of the following existing and widely used standards:\n\nIn addition, the following, ARML-independent initiatives also deal with creating standards for Augmented Reality environments:\n\nThe following example describes a 3D Model (assuming one is available on http://www.myserver.com/myModel.dae) on a Trackable, like a fiducial marker, located at http://www.myserver.com/myMarker.jpg:\n"}
{"id": "22061351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22061351", "title": "Australian and New Zealand Society of Indexers", "text": "Australian and New Zealand Society of Indexers\n\nThe Australian and New Zealand Society of Indexers (ANZSI) is a society representing indexers in Australia and New Zealand. It has branches and groups in ACT, New South Wales, New Zealand, Northern Territory, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, and Western Australia.\n\nIt provides training courses, conferences, a newsletter, and a directory of available indexers.\n\nANZSI was established as the Australian Society of Indexers (AusSI) in Melbourne in 1976 to replace the Society of Indexers in Australia, members of the UK Society of Indexers in Australia. Its early history was recorded by Hazel Bell.\n\nANZSI is affiliated with indexing societies in the UK, the United States, Canada, Southern Africa, and China; and associated with societies in Germany (DNI) and the Netherlands (NIN).\n\nANZSI medals and highly commended certificates are offered annually for an outstanding index to a book or periodical compiled in Australia or New Zealand. Medals and certificates are not awarded every year.\n\nANZSI (then AusSI) was the first indexing society in the world to recognise web indexing with an award.\n\nThe \"ANZSI Newsletter\" is published 11 times per year. In addition, ANZSI members are regular contributors to the international journal, \"The Indexer\", and ANZSI events are documented in the 'Around the World' section of every issue. Special contributions include articles on Australian topics such as the indexing of Australian Aboriginal personal names, and AusSI (now ANZSI) guest-edited the April 2001 issue. \nIn the Index Series, ANZSI publishes indexes which have been created under the ANZSI Mentoring Scheme, in which mentees create indexes to published, but previously un-indexed works.\n\nOfficial website\n"}
{"id": "18926229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18926229", "title": "Balmoral Grist Mill Museum", "text": "Balmoral Grist Mill Museum\n\nThe Balmoral Grist Mill Museum is a restored 1874 water powered grist mill located in Balmoral Mills, Nova Scotia. The site includes a walking trail along the ravine of Balmoral Brook. The mill is part of the Nova Scotia Museum system. It could be used to grind wheat, oats, and buckwheat into flour and meal.\n\nThe mill was built in 1874 by Alexander McKay, the son of Scottish immigrants. He purchased the land for the mill for $12. He utilized a new technology for the time, the water turbine, to drive four grindstones. When Alexander died in 1886, the mill passed to his son, Hugh.\n\nHugh sold the mill 20 years later to Alexander McLean MacDonald. MacDonald passed the mill to his son Archie in 1940. In the 1950s, the mill, facing competition from larger modern mills, shut down.\n\nIn 1964, the Sunrise Trail Museum in Tatamagouche began the process of restoring the mill, hiring the former owner, Archie MacDonald to run the mill. Due to financial constraints, the mill was sold to the Nova Scotia government in 1966. The government restored the mill and added an electric motor to drive the mill stones in place of the turbine that once provided power.\n\n"}
{"id": "16141810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16141810", "title": "Bank Julius Baer v. WikiLeaks", "text": "Bank Julius Baer v. WikiLeaks\n\nBank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. et al. v. Wikileaks et al. was a lawsuit filed by Bank Julius Baer against the website WikiLeaks.\n\nIn early February 2008, Judge Jeffrey White of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California forced Dynadot, the domain registrar of wikileaks.org, to disassociate the site's domain name records with its servers, preventing use of the domain name to reach the site. Initially, the bank only wanted the documents to be removed (WikiLeaks had failed to name a contact person).\n\nThe judge's actions roused media and cyber-liberties groups to defend WikiLeaks' rights under the First Amendment and brought renewed scrutiny to the documents the bank hoped to shield.\n\nThe judge lifted the injunction and the bank dropped the case on 5 March 2008.\n\nIn 2002, the bank learned that records pertaining to the arrangement of anonymizing trusts in the Cayman Islands for clients from 1997 to 2002 had been leaked. They interviewed the local employees with a polygraph as per company policy. The bank was unsatisfied with the answers of Cayman unit COO Rudolf Elmer, and terminated his employment. In June 2005, the leak was reported by the Swiss financial weekly \"Cash\" and the \"Wall Street Journal\", though details of individual accounts were not reported on. In December 2007, Elmer released documents related to WikiLeaks regarding surveillance of him and his family. The next month, some of the leaked account data began appearing on WikiLeaks. Contributors to WikiLeaks allege that these provide evidence of asset hiding, money laundering and tax evasion. Ten account holders in the United States, Spain, Peru, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, and Switzerland have been identified so far on WikiLeaks.\n\nAccording to Daniel Schmitt's analysis for WikiLeaks, leaked account data exists from after the date that Elmer left the Caymans.\n\nOn 16 January 2011, Elmer announced he would hand over offshore account details of 2,000 \"high-net-worth individuals\" to WikiLeaks. Then he would return to Switzerland from exile to face trial. Julius Baer says Elmer falsified the documents.\n\nThe law firm representing Baer was Lavely and Singer. The law firm representing Baer works primarily in the entertainment industry in Los Angeles. They applied for and got the injunction at a court in San Francisco - 450 miles (700 km) from Los Angeles. They claimed to be acting, in part, to protect Baer's customers from having information about the customers become public. But one of the documents filed in court by Lavely and Singer identified one of the customers of interest by name as well as giving his street address.\n\nIn January, Bank Julius Baer began sending cease & desist letters to WikiLeaks and its domain registrar, Dynadot, for the wikileaks.org domain name, citing the DMCA. On 18 February 2008, Judge Jeffrey White of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California issued a permanent injunction against Dynadot forcing it to \"lock the wikileaks.org domain name\". Mirror sites, such as http://wikileaks.be, were not affected. The text of the posted injunction stated that \"immediate harm will result to Plaintiffs in the absence of injunctive relief\", as is required for injunctions to be granted. The general assumption is that some leaked documents were alleged by the bank to be libellous, trade secrets, copyrighted, or otherwise prohibited for distribution, in a manner that would cause harm to it.\n\nWikiLeaks had not sent a representative to the hearing at which the injunction was granted. According to an editorial on the WikiLeaks website, Julius Baer had some communication with WikiLeaks before going to court to get the injunction, but did not inform WikiLeaks in which city it would seek the injunction and did not present to the court these email communications.\n\nA coincidental fire at the hosting company used by WikiLeaks, PRQ, centered in a high power supply regulator serving the majority of the data center, shut down and destroyed some sections of the specific DNS and dedicated hosting server racks used by WikiLeaks the same week.\n\nThe Julius Baer lawsuit drew a great deal more negative attention than would the leaks alone, due to the \"Streisand effect\". Julius Baer had already got an injunction against WikiLeaks, prohibiting WikiLeaks from circulating the documents that Julius Baer wanted to suppress, without attracting significant attention from news media. But then Julius Baer drew a huge amount of attention to itself by seeking and getting a second injunction imposing a measure that would suppress not only the information that Julius Baer considered embarrassing, but also the entire WikiLeaks website consisting of all manner of documents presented as evidence of all manner of crimes - both in corporations and in governments, including human rights abuses - by many alleged criminals worldwide in cases having nothing to do with Julius Baer. For example, the site has given exposure to evidence of human rights abuses in China and political corruption in Kenya. The WikiLeaks website claims to have 1.2 million documents that users have posted anonymously to provide evidence of incidents of wrongdoing that deserve public scrutiny. Only 14 of these documents were pertinent to the Julius Baer case.\n\nAs well as backfiring in terms of the attention it attracted, the injunction could not be entirely effective in suppressing the website anyway in that the alternate WikiLeaks domains were unaffected, and WikiLeaks was still available directly by its IP address, 88.80.13.160. To shut down these access methods, it would be necessary to pursue injunctions in the jurisdictions where they are registered, or where the servers reside, which are deliberately scattered to make this difficult.\n\nAfter the injunction was initially granted, it was successfully challenged in a joint action by the following intervenors:\n\nA similar brief was filed by:\n\n\nAnother brief in support of WikiLeaks was filed by:\n\n\nThe First Amendment of the United States Constitution is stated in terms of establishing the right to propagate information. These legal briefs mentioned legal precedents stating that the First Amendment also establishes the right of citizens to read information. One of the amicus curiae was Jordan McCorkle, an ordinary citizen who reads the WikiLeaks website regularly.\n\nJudge White dissolved the injunction on 29 February 2008 allowing WikiLeaks to reclaim its domain name.\n\nThe bank dropped the case on 5 March 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "13661659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13661659", "title": "Beaford Arts", "text": "Beaford Arts\n\nBeaford Arts was established in 1966 by the Dartington Hall Trust as The Beaford Centre to promote and support the arts in rural north Devon - an area of 799 square miles bounded by Dartmoor, Exmoor, and the Atlantic west coast.\n\nBeaford Arts is England's oldest rural arts organisation, based at Greenwarren House in the village of Beaford in North Devon. It has been involved in a number of arts projects including James Ravilious's work to create the Beaford Archive. This collection of 80,000 black-and-white photographs taken over seventeen years \"forms a unique exploration of the society, culture, geography and economy of a 'corner of England'\". The Beaford Archive also includes 10,000 older images of north Devon, mainly taken between 1880 and 1920, collected by Ravilious from his subjects during his work. It is currently stored in secure conditions in the North Devon Record Office.\n\nBeaford Arts' present functions are:\n\nFor ten years from 1992 the Beaford Centre ran The Plough arts centre in Torrington. Since 2002, however, they have been independent organisations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1148846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1148846", "title": "Bryson's Dictionary of Troublesome Words", "text": "Bryson's Dictionary of Troublesome Words\n\nBryson's Dictionary of Troublesome Words () is a book by Bill Bryson, published under several titles since 1984, that catalogues some of the English language's most commonly misused words and phrases in order to demonstrate preferable usage. It helps writers and editors to think about how to make written communication clearer (or, in some cases, at least how to make it immune from pedantic editorial disparagement by avoiding the pedants' trigger points).\n\nIt was first published in 1984 with the title \"The Penguin Dictionary of Troublesome Words\" () in the United Kingdom and with the title \"The Facts on File Dictionary of Troublesome Words\" () in the United States. It was republished in a revised edition in 1987; and again in the UK in 1997 under the title \"Troublesome Words\" (). In 2002 it was published as \"Bryson's Dictionary of Troublesome Words\".\n\nAs the author states, \"This book might more accurately, if less convincingly, have been called \"A Guide to Everything in English Usage That the Author Wasn't Entirely Clear About Until Quite Recently.\"\" Bryson describes the English language as a valuable entity, with no two experts agreeing on any point of usage, claiming that those guides that do exist for the common user often expect the reader to be familiar with grammatical terms not encountered since (or even at) high school.\n\nUsing almost forty standard works on the subject as his guide, Bryson aims to produce a list of difficult English words that is generally readable and informative while also useable as a reference work.\n\nThis aim is accomplished using a large degree of humour as well as a willingness to hold the experts he quotes up to the light for their own failings, thus illustrating how easy it is to make errors of usage, or at least to fail to adhere to preferable or optimal usage.\n\nLike all other major usage advice books, it reflects the language epistemology of professional editors, which is not completely coincident with that of linguistic scientists. It makes use of both linguistic prescription and linguistic description, attempting to avoid the pathological extremes of prescription (valueless pedantry such as hypercorrection) while also making use of its helpful side (which encourages critical thinking).\n"}
{"id": "53921785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53921785", "title": "Comparative air force enlisted ranks of the Commonwealth", "text": "Comparative air force enlisted ranks of the Commonwealth\n\nRank comparison chart of air forces of Commonwealth of Nations states.\n\n"}
{"id": "10772582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10772582", "title": "Comparison of the Java and .NET platforms", "text": "Comparison of the Java and .NET platforms\n\nThe Mono project aims to avoid infringing on any patents or copyrights, and to the extent that they are successful, the project can be safely distributed and used under the GPL. On November 2, 2006, Microsoft and Novell announced a joint agreement whereby Microsoft promised not to sue Novell or its customers for patent infringement. According to a statement on the blog of Mono project leader Miguel de Icaza, this agreement only extends to Mono for Novell developers and users. Because of the possible threat of Microsoft patents, the FSF recommends that people avoid creating software that depends on Mono or C#.\n\nThe Microsoft/Novell agreement was criticized by some in the open source community because it violates the principles of giving equal rights to all users of a particular program (see Agreement with Microsoft and Mono and Microsoft's patents).\n\nIn response to the Microsoft/Novell agreement, the Free Software Foundation revised its GNU General Public License to close the loophole used by Microsoft and Novell to bypass the GPL's very restrictive provisions on patent deals. The FSF also stated that by selling coupons for Novell's Linux software, the mechanism by which Microsoft circumvented the GNU license, it considers Microsoft to be a Linux vendor, and thereby subject to the full terms and conditions laid out in the GPL.\n\nThe .NET landscape started to change in 2013, when Microsoft decided to open source many of its core .NET technologies under Apache License, with even more donated to newly formed .NET Foundation in 2014. Open sourced technologies include ASP.NET MVC, Entity Framework, Managed Extensibility Framework, Roslyn compiler-as-a-service infrastructure (together with C# and Visual Basic.NET compilers), F# functional-first language compiler, and many more. Microsoft and Xamarin announced collaboration, with the intent to increase cross-platform availability of .NET on Mac OS, Linux, and mobile devices.\nMicrosoft released in June 2016 .NET Core 1.0, which is an open source crossplatform environment and a lean version of the pure Windows implementation.\n\nAlthough Java's AWT (Abstract Window Toolkit) and Swing libraries are not shy of features, Java has struggled to establish a foothold in the desktop market. Sun Microsystems was also slow, in the eyes of some, to promote Java to developers and end users alike in a way that makes it an appealing choice for desktop software. Even technologies such as Java Web Start, which have few parallels within rival languages and platforms, have barely been promoted.\n\nThe release of Java version 6.0 on December 11, 2006, saw a renewed focus on the desktop market with an extensive set of new tools for closer integration with the desktop. At the 2007 JavaOne conference Sun made further desktop related announcements, including a new language aimed at taking on Adobe Flash (JavaFX), a new lightweight way of downloading the JRE that sees the initial footprint reduced to under 2 Mb, and a renewed focus on multimedia libraries.\n\nAn alternative to AWT and Swing is the Standard Widget Toolkit (SWT), which was originally developed by IBM and now maintained by the Eclipse Foundation. It attempts to achieve improved performance and visualization of Java desktop applications by relying on underlying native libraries where possible.\nOn Windows, Microsoft's .NET is a popular desktop development providing both Windows Forms (a lightweight wrapper around the Win32 API), Windows Presentation Foundation, and Silverlight. With the integration of .NET into the Windows platform, .NET apps are first class citizens in the Windows environment with tighter OS integration and native look and feel compared to Java's Swing.\n\nOutside of Windows, Silverlight is portable to the Mac OS X desktop. Mono is also becoming more common in open source and free software systems due to its inclusion on many Linux desktop environments.\n\nThis is probably the arena in which the two platforms are closest to being considered rivals. Java, through its Java EE (a.k.a. Java Platform Enterprise Edition) platform, and .NET through ASP.NET, compete to create web-based dynamic content and applications.\n\nBoth platforms are well used and supported in this market. Of the top 1,000 websites, approximately 24% use ASP.net and also 24% use Java, whereas of all the websites approximately 17% use ASP.net and 3% use Java.\n\nSome of Oracle's Java-related license agreements for Java EE define aspects of the Java platform as a trade secret, and prohibit the end user from contributing to a third-party Java environment. Specifically, at least one current license for an Oracle Java EE development package contains the following terms: \"\"You may make a single archival copy of Software, but otherwise may not copy, modify, or distribute Software.\" — \"Unless enforcement is prohibited by applicable law, you may not decompile, or reverse engineer Software.\" — \"You may not publish or provide the results of any benchmark or comparison tests run on Software to any third party without the prior written consent of Oracle.\" — \"Software is confidential and copyrighted.\"\" However, while Oracle's software is subject to the above license terms, Oracle's Java EE API reference has been implemented under an open-source license by the JBoss and JOnAS projects.\n\nMicrosoft's implementation of ASP.NET is not part of the standardized CLI, and while Microsoft's runtime environment and development tools are not subject to comparable secrecy agreements to Java EE, the official Microsoft tools are not open source or free software, and require Windows servers. However, a cross-platform free software ASP.NET implementation is part of the Mono project (minus webparts and Web Services Enhancements). Mono supports ASP.NET 4.0 including Web Forms, Microsoft AJAX, and ASP.NET MVC.\n\nGoogle's popular Android platform for mobile application is based on Java. Google adopted a customised virtual machine called Dalvik to optimise the execution of Java code for mobile devices.\n\nOracle provides Java ME; a reference implementation for mobile OEM vendors. Java ME is made up of various profiles that are subsets of the Java desktop environment with additional libraries targeted at mobile and set-top-box development. Java ME has a very large base within the mobile phone and PDA markets, with only the cheapest devices now devoid of a KVM (a cut down Java Virtual Machine for use on devices with limited processing power). Java software, including many games, is commonplace.\n\nWhile many feature phones include a JVM, they are not always heavily used by users (particularly in South Africa). Initially Java applications on most phones typically consisted of menuing systems, small games, or systems to download ringtones etc. However, more powerful phones are increasingly being sold with simple applications pre-loaded, such as translation dictionaries, world clock displays (darkness/light, timezones, etc.) and calculators. Some of these are written in Java, although how often phone owners actually use them is probably unknown. \n\nMicrosoft currently ships the .NET Compact Framework that runs on Windows CE and mobile devices, set-top boxes, and PDAs as well as the Xbox 360. Microsoft also provides the .NET Micro Framework for embedded developers with limited resources. \nAlternatively, Novell licenses embeddable versions of Mono to 3rd parties to use in their devices, and Xamarin commercially distributes the MonoDroid and MonoTouch framework for Android and iPhone development, respectively.\nWindows Phone 7 uses Silverlight for native apps, but Windows Phone 8 has C# and XAML as the main languages.\n\nJava has found a market in digital television, where it can be used to provide software that sits alongside programming, or extends the capabilities of a given Set Top Box. TiVo, for example, has a facility called \"Home Media Engine\", which allows JavaTV software to be transmitted to an appropriate TiVo device to complement programming or provide extra functionality (for example, personalized stock tickers on a business news program.)\n\nA variant of Java has been accepted as the official software tool for use on the next generation optical disc technology Blu-ray, via the BD-J interactive platform. This will mean that interactive content, such as menus, games, downloadables, etc. on all Blu-ray optical discs will be created under a variant of the Java platform.\n\nRather than using Java, HD DVD (the defunct high definition successor to DVD) used a technology jointly developed by Microsoft and Disney called HDi that was based on XML, CSS, JavaScript, and other technologies that are comparable to those used by standard Web browsers.\n\nThe BD-J platform API is more extensive than its iHD rival, with an alleged 8,000 methods and interfaces, as opposed to iHD's 400. And while Microsoft is pushing iHD's XML presentation layer by including it with Windows Vista, iHD is still a newcomer in a market sector where Java technologies are already commonplace.\n\nHowever, the fact that the HD DVD format has been abandoned in favor of Blu-ray means that HDi is no longer supported on any optical disc format, making the BD-J format a clear winner.\n\nOn Windows, Microsoft has promoted .NET as its flagship development platform by including the .NET runtime in Windows XP Service Pack 2 and 3, Windows Server 2003, Windows Vista, Windows Server 2008 and Windows 7. Microsoft also distributes the Visual Studio Express development environment at no cost, and the Visual Studio Community development environment at no cost, with limited use for organizations.\n\n.NET Framework 3.5 runtime is not pre-installed on versions of Windows prior to Vista SP1, and must be downloaded by the user, which has been criticized because of its large size (65 MB download for .NET 3.5).\n\nWhile neither .NET nor Mono are installed with Mac OS X out-of-the-box, the Mono project can be downloaded and installed separately, for free, for any Mac user who wants to build or run C# and .NET software. As of 13 May 2008, Mono's System.WindowsForms 2.0 is API-complete (contains 100% of classes, methods etc. in Microsoft's System.WindowsForms 2.0); also System.WindowsForms 2.0 works natively on Mac OS X.\n\nC# and the CLI are included and used in a number of Linux- and BSD-based operating systems by way of including the free software Mono Project.\n\nAs a result of inclusion of .NET or Mono runtimes in the distributions of Windows and Linux, non-GUI applications that use the programming interfaces that are common to both .NET and Mono can be developed in C# or any other .NET language and then deployed across many operating systems and processor architectures using a runtime environment that is available as a part of the operating system's installation. Both Microsoft .NET and the Mono project have complete support for the Ecma- and ISO-standardized C# language and .NET runtime, and many of Microsoft's non-standardized .NET programming interfaces have been implemented or are under development in Mono, but each environment includes many components that have not been implemented in the other.\n\nNo current version of Windows ships with Java; they stopped shipping with Windows XP SP1a.\n\nJava was pre-installed on all new Apple computers beginning with Mac OS X 10.0 and ending with 10.6, after which Java 6 became an optional Apple download. Java 7 and later releases are provided by Oracle.\n\nJava comes pre-installed with many commercial Unix flavors, including those from Hewlett Packard, IBM and Oracle. As of June 2009, the Debian, Fedora 9, Mandriva OpenSUSE, Slackware extra, and Ubuntu 8.04 distributions are available with OpenJDK, based completely on free and open source code. Since June 2008, OpenJDK passed all of the compatibility tests in the Java SE 6 JCK and can claim to be a fully compatible Java 6 implementation. OpenJDK can run complex applications such as Eclipse, GlassFish, JBoss, or Netbeans.\n\nThe Operating System Distributor License for Java (DLJ) was a Sun initiative to ease distribution issues with operating systems based on Linux or OpenSolaris.\n\nIf Java is not installed on a computer by default, it may be downloaded by the user as a Web plugin. The Web plugin process has been criticized because of the size of the Java plugin. Unlike other plugins, the Java download is a full runtime environment capable of running not just applets, but full applications and dynamic WebStart apps. Because of this, the perceived download footprint is larger than some web plugins. However, compared to Java, other popular browser plugins have larger sizes: Java 6 JRE is 13 MB, but Acrobat Reader is 33 MB, QuickTime 19 MB, Windows Media Player 25 MB, the .NET Framework 3.0 runtime is 54 MB, and the .NET Framework 3.5 runtime is 197 MB (it's a united package for x86, x64 and IA-64, each part has approximately 60 MB).\n\nAt the JavaOne event in May 2007 Sun announced that the deployment issues with Java would be solved in two major updates during the lifespan of Java 6 (the changes will not be held over to Java 7.) These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35742489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35742489", "title": "Doing gender", "text": "Doing gender\n\nIn sociology and gender studies, \"doing gender\" is the idea that in Western culture, gender, rather than being an innate quality of individuals, is a psychologically ingrained social construct that actively surfaces in everyday human interaction. This term was used by Candace West and Don Zimmerman in their article \"Doing Gender\", published in 1987 in \"Gender and Society\". According to this paper, an individual's performance of gender is intended to construct gendered behavior as naturally occurring. This façade furthers a system through which individuals are judged in terms of their failure or success to meet gendered societal expectations, called the accountability structure. The concept of doing gender was later expanded by authors such as West and Fenstermaker in the book \"Doing Gender, Doing Difference\". \n\nThe concept of \"doing\" gender came from conversations of gender from sociology and gender studies. The specific term \"doing gender\" was used in West and Zimmerman's article by the same title, originally written in 1977 but not published until 1987. West and Zimmerman illustrate that gender is performed in interactions, and that behaviors are assessed based on socially accepted conceptions of gender. Rather than focusing on how gender is ingrained in the individual or perpetuated by institutions, West and Zimmerman emphasize the interactional level as a site where gender is invoked and reinforced. They begin by differentiating sex from sex category and gender. In this piece, sex is the socially agreed upon criteria for being male or female, usually based on and individual's genitalia at birth or chromosomal typing before birth. Sex category is the assumed biological category, regardless of the individual's gender identification. This is \"established and sustained by the socially required identificatory displays that proclaim one's membership in one or the other category\". Gender, in this context, is the degree to which an actor is masculine or feminine, in light of societal expectations about what is appropriate for one's sex category.\n\nDoing gender according to West and Zimmerman \"is to advance a new understanding of gender as a routine accomplishment embedded in every day interaction\". Essentially, West and Zimmerman argued that gender is something that humans created. As humans, we have categorized and defined many aspects of life. If someone was not in favor of their gender role or did something that was not deemed \"correct\" for that gender this person would be committing an act of social deviance.\n\nGender is described as 'omnirelevant,' as it is apparent and relevant in almost every interaction. In their article, West and Zimmerman use examples such as bathrooms, sports, coupling, conversations, professions and the might have been division of labor to illustrate the ways in which gender is prevalent in many taken for granted activities. West and Zimmerman employ the example of a professional woman in a male-dominated field, through which it becomes apparent that the woman will have to make decisions as to whether or not she should engage in \"unfeminine\" behavior that would otherwise be an integral part of her identity.\n\nAnother component of this theory is gendered assessment of behavior. In the above example, the woman is engaging in behavior that will be assessed as either masculine or feminine by her co-workers. According to West and Zimmerman, this woman will be evaluated based on how her actions compare to accountability standards of the sex category she belongs to. Deviations from these expectations do not have an immediate effect on the accountability structure itself. Instead, failures to meet these standards are attributed to the individual rather than to the rigidity of recognized categories. With this theory, West and Zimmerman stress the importance of social interaction in maintaining the gender structure. Because individuals \"do\" and assess gender in interaction, gender is visible in a wide variety of activities such as conversation.\n\nThe idea that gender is something that individuals actively 'do' was largely inspired by the social psychological approach taken by Erving Goffman (1976) in \"Gender Display\".(p. 129) Goffman theorizes that humans make the assumption that each has an \"essential nature,\" which can be interpreted by reading \"natural signs given off or expressed by them\" (p. 75). One of the most basic natures that can be assumed from interpreting these signs is one's masculinity or femininity. Not only is gender often determined by others relatively easily, but this determination often establishes the ways in which individuals interact with one another. Goffman asserts that, because we habitually function within such scripts, they are taken to be further evidence of essential natures. He coins the term \"gender display\" as a way to conceptualize the ways in which individuals act in a gender appropriate manner. However, these performances are optional and vulnerable to disturbance, as inappropriate gender display can just as easily be invoked as socially accepted ones. Goffman asserts that there is a \"scheduling\" of gender displays around activities, so that the activities themselves are not interrupted by gender displays. For instance, colleagues may interact in a gendered manner during their lunch hour, rather than while they are working together on a project. West and Zimmerman take issue with this piece of Goffman's perspective, claiming that this masks the ways in which gender displays permeate nearly all social situations in that individuals cannot avoid being interpreted as masculine or feminine.\n\nMedia has a powerful influence over many aspects of modern life. The way gender is expressed and perceived by audiences varies from culture to culture. The language within a culture as \"the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis [states], notes how language influences our perceptions and thus shapes our reality.\" As language evolves within a culture and new language is added, the gender identities are influenced and categories change. The influence of language and the significance it has often communicated over media and the gender categories people use to place gender roles in, may change or add new categories. There are other areas that gender roles and differences stem from, \"some researchers suggest that gender differences result from a variety of factors including socialization and biology…gender roles are often manifested through communication and culture (Goffman, 1976; Lauzen et al., 2008; Wanta & Legett, 1989; Williams & Best, 1990; Wood, 2009).\"\n\nGender is something that is always out there whether we are mindful of it or not: \"Gender identity and gender roles are a significant part of everyday life.\" On top of this, gender roles help us make sense of our environment, they influence relationships and our own views. Since the social aspect of life is such an essential part and needs to be fulfilled, we are exposed to gender roles frequently and sometimes unconsciously, absorbing it if it fits with the category that society has influenced us to perceive it as. \"In contemporary media and culture, women's and men's social desirability and gender often been defined in terms of their bodies. For women this has often involved comparing themselves to and even replicating the 'thin ideal'.\" These views like the 'thin ideal' are reinforced through media with advertising, actors, and Photoshop touchups. On the other end, men have been shown images of being extremely fit and muscular, usually in a pose that expresses power, and the cultures values of what 'masculinity' is for a culture. \"Gender-based definitions of success frequently revolve around presenting or developing their bodies as strong, youthful, active and physically dominant.\" These roles are promoted by society, with visual displays and traits assigned to specific gender roles. \"Goffman (1976) accounts for these traits in his research of magazine and newspaper photography, finding women to be pictured in more submissive positions while men are depicted in more elevated positions.\" These depictions of gender are growing in certain trending shows and movies. Lauzen and colleagues (2008) examined gender roles in television, \"they found male characters on prime time television were more likely to inhabit work roles, including blue collar, white collar, and extracurricular activities, while women were portrayed in more interpersonal roles involving romance, friendship, and family.\" The way gender roles are portrayed in TV can spill into everyday life. Another area that 'doing gender' is being expressed is in video games: \"Female characters are represented as highly sexualized while male characters possess exaggerated strength, are hyper masculine, aggressive, and, with the exception of showing hostility, lack emotion.\" The way gender roles are represented in video games adds another influence that society has to take in and this can make people think that these fictional depictions can be obtained. This then creates perspectives used to categorize gender roles and as we see others 'doing gender' we want to believe that we should be looking like these characters in games or actors in advertisements and T.V. \"A number of studies, for example, have demonstrated extensive 'gender-swapping' in 'avatar' creation for online gaming and in text based CMC.\" The increase in video games and in especially online environments allow people to step into other gender roles, by 'doing gender' that may be different in how they present themselves in real life. These online environments allow users to shape their roles in gender.\n\nThe rise of social media networks allows people to communicate globally and manage how others perceive them and how they choose to express their gender. The increase of digital content in today's technology has influences over gender roles, \"Digital formats…represent exciting possibilities for individuals who can explore the freedom of presenting a physical self that might differ from the one they present or perform in everyday life or form socially-defines expectations.\" People will put themselves into a role to look as though they fit in and to avoid embarrassment in case they violate a social norm.\n\nJudith Butler has written extensively on this topic, using the term \"gender performativity\". She explains the same idea of doing gender by explaining gender as a performance that people are taught and attempt to recreate through actions and presentation.\n\nThe concept of doing gender has been critiqued by scholars who assert that it does not take human agency and acts of resistance into account. \n\nIn order to illustrate the possibility of change, several works have been published in which researchers claim to document an 'undoing' or 'redoing' of gender. Francine M. Deutsch, in \"Undoing Gender\" (2007), examines how the concept of doing gender has been employed in research. Deutsch uses examples of studies that use West and Zimmerman's work to illustrate how normative gender ideals are apparent in a variety of contexts. This, she argues, contributes to the invisibility of gender transgression and does not work towards West and Zimmerman's goal of eliminating gender inequity. In order to facilitate the undoing of gender, Deutsch suggests that \"The study of the interactional level could expand beyond simply documenting the persistence of inequality to examine (1) when and how social interactions become less gendered, not just differently gendered; (2) the conditions under which gender is irrelevant in social interactions; (3) whether all gendered interactions reinforce inequality; (4) how the structural (institutional) and interactional levels might work together to produce change; and (5) interaction as the site of change\" (p. 114). By focusing on these areas, Deutsch asserts, it is easier to find practical solutions to problems cause by gender inequity.\n\nCatherine Connell (2010) presented the idea of \"redoing gender\" as well as \"doing transgender\" in her work, \"Doing, Undoing or Redoing Gender?: Learning from the Workplace Experiences of Transpeople\". Connell posits that transpeople may redo gender by altering normative ideas of gender in their interactions, but may simultaneously participate in the doing of gender in other ways. Connell coins the term \"doing transgender\" in order to provide a way to examine how transpeople must make sense of the disconnect between sex, gender and sex category, which they may obscure or actively express in interactions.\n\nIn January 2009, the academic journal \"Gender and Society\" published a West and Zimmerman Symposium, in honor of the concept of doing gender. Nine short articles were composed for the symposium, including a piece by West and Zimmerman. Several authors argued that the doing gender framework did not allow for agency, intent or consciousness. Other authors argued that biology needed to be focused on when considering doing gender, in order to understand what role the body plays in gender assessment.\n\nWest and Zimmerman responded with an article titled \"Accounting for Doing Gender\", in which they restated their original argument, with an emphasis on accountability. In this, they argued, the doing gender framework does not hide agency, but contextualizes it. Because individuals' gender will be interpreted based on the accountability structure, the effectiveness of their resistance may not serve to \"undo\" gender. The authors contend that gender may be \"redone\" but never \"undone\", as accountability structures may change but gender will not disappear.\n\nDoing difference is a concept that grew out of the authors' earlier idea of \"doing gender\", presented at the American Sociological Association in 1977 by Candace West and Don Zimmerman and published in \"Gender and Society\" in 1987. In 1995, Candace West and Sarah Fenstermaker sought to extend the idea of gender as an ongoing interactional process into the realms of race and class.\n\nThey begin by asserting that the intersection of these three fundamental ways to categorize social difference cannot simply be thought of in a mathematical or even strictly hierarchical sense. That is, simply plugging in these concepts as variables in a multiple regression model to predict life success in a particular society provides a simplified way to look at their relative effects, but would fail to provide an adequate basis for even understanding, lesser yet altering systemic inequalities based on race, class, and gender. For instance, poor black women in the United States face immense social disadvantages, but to place them at the bottom of some abstract listing of vulnerable populations tells us little about how race, class, and gender interacted in their biography and social milieu to constrain and direct their lives. Their analysis of these core differences from the standpoint of ethnomethodology turns the focus away from individual characteristics. Instead, they are understood processually as \"emergent properties of social situations\" which simultaneously produce systematically different outcomes for social groups and the rationale for such disparities.\n\nThe authors assert that the reason race and class were not adequately considered in earlier works is because the feminist movement has historically been the province of white middle class women in the developed world who were not sufficiently affected or attuned to the nature of these corollary oppressions. Furthermore, few women outside this privileged lot were able to gain access to institutions of higher education, which might have permitted them to engage in the academic discourse and activity about such shortcomings. Even if they had, the gatekeepers within the academy and at leading journals made this unlikely process even more difficult. Perhaps overt racism and classism (and sexism) is less apparent today in these institutions, but the tendency remains for those in positions of power to view the world in a way that discounts the experience of marginalized groups.\n\nThe central theme of \"difference\" here is meant to illustrate how the concepts of race and gender have been falsely conceived as biologically bound predictors of behavior and aptitude among those who are a certain skin color or sex. The commonalities within these somewhat arbitrary categories often exaggerated and the behavior of the most dominant group within the category (e.g. rich white men or women) becomes idealized as the only appropriate way to fulfill one social role. This conceptualization is then employed as a means of excluding and stigmatizing those who do not or cannot live up to these standards. This process of \"doing difference\" is realized in constant interpersonal interactions that reaffirm and reproduce social structure. Experiencing the world through the interaction of these \"essentialized\" characteristics and especially through dominant group's frame of reference (power interests) produces a pattern of thought and behavior that reproduces these social inequalities.\n\nSocial science research has rendered dubious any claim that race can simply be conflated with color, or gender with genitalia, or even class with paychecks. Class may not seem as prone to ideas about natural social differentiation, but within capitalist societies, it is often assumed that one's economic situation is a more or less direct indication of one's capacity to achieve. Since women and people of color taken are more often poor, natural disadvantage is at least tacitly assumed by many. Given the general observation that powerful groups seem to rely heavily on these ideas of natural subordination, many liberationist thinkers came to the conclusion that this essentialism would be a prime rhetorical vehicle to subvert. Thus, the deconstruction of role theory and functionalism within sociology was a central theme from the 1960s onward. This still left a somewhat gaping theoretical vacuum, one that continues to be felt by people struggling with this challenge to fundamentally alter their social cosmology.\n\nSocial constructionism has assumed the major explanatory role in these discussions by positing that the meanings of these supposedly ascribed statuses are in fact situationally dependent on the sort of social context in which we employ them. That is, race, class, and gender aren't just objective scientific facts, but dynamic processes of culturally constructing cues for moral behavior (for which one can be held personally accountable) in a particular circumstance. It is these constantly occurring processes, not some divinely decreed grand plan, which reproduces social structure. Individuals \"do difference\" when they acknowledge (knowingly or unknowingly) how their categorization renders them socially accountable to acting in a particular way in a situation. However, when individuals recalibrate \"doing difference\" to produce alternative ways to conceptualize interaction patterns, it amounts to social change.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22131552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22131552", "title": "Electra Havemeyer Webb Memorial Building", "text": "Electra Havemeyer Webb Memorial Building\n\nThe Electra Havemeyer Webb Memorial Building is an exhibit building located at the Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, in the U.S. state of Vermont. It was built as a memorial to the Museum's founder, Electra Havemeyer Webb, and her husband, James Watson Webb II. It is home to the museum's European Paintings Collection. The collection is shown in six period rooms relocated from Electra and J. Watson Webb's 1930s New York City apartment on 740 Park Avenue.\n\nIn 1960, Electra Havemeyer Webb's children erected the Electra Havemeyer Webb Memorial Building in honor of the Museum founder. Completed in 1967, the Memorial Building’s silhouette duplicates that of the 1843 Wilcox-Cutts House in Orwell, Vermont. The Memorial Building represents the architectural idiom known as Greek Revival. It was a style pervasive in the United States, gaining prominence in the second quarter of the 19th century and reaching its peak of popularity by 1850.\n\nDrawing inspiration from Grecian temples, Greek Revival architects adopted the rectangular structure of colonial houses and reoriented it so that the triangular gables would run parallel, rather than perpendicular, to the road. Anchoring the pedimented facade with a heavily columned, often two-storied porch, and sometimes flanking the main gable with mirroring wings, such as in the Memorial Building, architects achieved the proportion and symmetry of the ancient structures that inspired them.\n\nSculptors have been casting their ideas in bronze since around 2,300 BCE. The Romans perfected the process and by the early 16th-century monumental bronze statues of heroes on horseback, saints, and monarchs stood in public squares all over Europe, while smaller figures decorated churches and the homes of art patrons. Bronze sculpture is made by using a mold or by casting from an original model. Either process allows an artist to create several nearly identical copies of one work of art. In the 19th century, technological changes improved the production of multiple casts and smaller tabletop sculptures became fashionable and affordable. Both European and American art collectors decorated their parlors with statues of animals, classical goddesses, and romantic figures. \n\nShelburne Museum's bronze collection focuses on small decorative bronzes. Bronze castings of exotic animals by French artist Antoine Louis Barye can be seen in the Electra Havemeyer Webb Memorial Building. His small sculptures of elephants, crocodiles and lions are displayed in the library. Barye spent hours at the Paris zoo sketching the anatomy of animals to accurately reproduce them in bronze. His sculpture elephant and driver, located in the foyer captures the rough skin of an elephant and the contrasting soft cloth costume of his driver. \n\nOn the first floor, there are two Edgar Degas bronzes. The horse and rider combinations were originally modeled in wax and later cast in bronze (after the artist’s death in 1917). Degas' studies horses and jockeys was a way to explore the effects of form, space, and motion.\n\nIn the basement of the Electra Havemeyer Webb Memorial Building, there is a collection of 19th and 20th century American bronzes. It features work by such western artists as Charles Russell and Harry Jackson; these artists, who often served as cowhands and guides of the western plains, modeled their work after real people and personal experiences. Their bucking broncos, cowboys, and portraits of Native Americans are romantic interpretations of a vanishing American west.\n\nShelburne Museum’s collection of fine art includes objects originally in the collection of Henry O. Havemeyer and Louisine Elder Havemeyer, parents of Electra Havemeyer Webb who inherited the collection from them. The European painters still represented by the collection include Rembrandt van Rijn, Édouard Manet, Claude Monet, Edgar Degas, and Mary Cassatt. The Havemeyers were among the first American collectors of French Impressionists painting and amassed one of the most important collections of Old Masters and Impressionist paintings on American soil. \n\nThe French artist Édouard Manet (1832–1883) felt strongly that keen observation made a great painter. A brilliant technician who used broad strokes of paint as comfortably as he did minute dabs of color, Manet explored ideas about light that set the stage for the Impressionist movement. He completed \"Blue Venice\" while touring Italy in 1874. His dashes of paint create the effect of sunlight sparkling on water; on the gondolier, Manet used multiple strokes of color to create a three-dimensional effect.\n\nClaude Monet (1840–1926), a prominent leader of the Impressionist movement, stressed the importance of working outdoors and letting art illustrate the color and movement of the natural environment. Five landscapes by Monet are included in the Museum’s collection. In the 1880s and 1890s Monet captured the changing effects of natural light by creating series of paintings of the same subject in different weather and light conditions. His \"Haystacks in the Snow\" is part of a series of over thirty paintings of haystacks. \n\nPastels, soft, colorful chalks, were perfected by the French in the 19th century. Edgar Degas is considered one of the founders of Impressionism though he preferred to be considered a Realist. Degas's work differed from other Impressionists; while Monet concernated on the effects of light and shadow, Degas focused on unusual perspectives and complex formal structures. The Shelburne Museum has seven Degas works in the collection, which can be seen in the Electra Havemeyer Webb Memeorial Building.\n\nThe one American Impressionist Mary Cassatt, had close ties to the Havemeyer and Webb families. Louisine Elder Havemeyer, Electra Havemeyer Webb's mother, was a close friend to Cassatt. Cassatt played a large role in shaping the Havemeyer's French Impressionist collection. You can find the Cassatt pastels and prints in the Electra Havemeyer Webb Memorial Building, including a portrait of the museum's founder, Electra Havemeyer Webb, and her mother Louisine Elder Havemeyer.\n\nShelburne Museum's furniture collection represents the different styles and tastes of 18th and 19th century America. It includes examples of the most sophisticated urban furniture produced in the nation as well as many simpler pieces made by country cabinetmakers for use in rural homes. These country pieces include one of the greatest strengths of the Museum – its collection of paint-decorated furniture. \n\nDuring the American industrial revolution (ca. 1865-1900) the furniture industry, like every other major industry, was mechanized. Individual craftspeople and designers like Louis Comfort Tiffany, whose work can be seen in the Electra Havemeyer Webb Memorial Building continued to work for upper class patrons, but inexpensive, factory-made chairs, tables, beds, and stands flooded and eager market of middle-class Victorians. The popularity of carved decoration and elaborate upholster, characteristic of the period, can be seen on the furniture displayed in the parlor of the Lightouse (see Colchester Reef Light) and on the promenade deck of the Ticonderoga steamboat).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1223179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223179", "title": "Fhourstones", "text": "Fhourstones\n\nIn computer science, Fhourstones is an integer benchmark that efficiently solves positions in the game of Connect-4. It was written by John Tromp in 1996-2008, and is incorporated into the Phoronix Test Suite. The measurements are reported as the number of game positions searched per second.\n\nAvailable in both ANSI-C and Java, it is quite portable and compact (under 500 lines of source), and uses 50Mb of memory.\nThe benchmark involves (after warming up on three easier positions) solving the entire game, which takes about ten minutes on contemporary PCs, scoring between 1000 and 12,000 kpos/sec. It has been described as more realistic than some other benchmarks.\n\nFhourstones was named as a pun on Dhrystone (itself a pun on Whetstone), as \"dhry\" sounds the same as \"drei\", German for \"three\": fhourstones is an increment on dhrystones.\n\n"}
{"id": "36446483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36446483", "title": "Fort de Bois-d'Arcy", "text": "Fort de Bois-d'Arcy\n\nThe Fort de Bois-d'Arcy, also called the Batterie de Bois-d'Arcy, is one of the forts constructed at the end of the 19th century to defend Paris. It is located in the commune of Bois d'Arcy in the Yvelines département of France. The fort is located in the southern part of the town to the south of Route nationale 12. It is now the home of the French national film archives, the Centre national de la cinématographie.\n\nBuilt between 1874 and 1881, the fort was planned to reinforce the western fortifications of Paris. The southwestern forts were designed to cover the approach of a relieving army from the western portions of France. The Bois-d'Arcy fort protected the neighboring Fort de Saint-Cyr, Versailles and the Camp de Satory, covering the Trappes valley and railway lines from Le Havre and Tours.\n\nDuring World War II the fort was occupied by German forces. Before leaving, the Germans blew up the front of the fort in 1944.\n\nDuring the 1960s the fort was placed at the disposal of the Ministry of Culture and was used by the Centre national de la cinématographie from 1969 as a storage center for nitrate-based films. It has since been designated a depository for all French films and is involved in the digitization of movies for digital preservation. It is classed as a Monument historique, designated on 15 February 1991.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5152395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5152395", "title": "Francis Moore (astrologer)", "text": "Francis Moore (astrologer)\n\nFrancis Moore (29 January 1657 – 1715) was a British physician and astrologer who wrote and published what later became \"Old Moore's Almanack\".\n\nHe was born into poverty in Bridgnorth. Moore was self-educated, learning to read by himself, and became a physician and astrologer. He served at the court of Charles II of England.\n\nThe almanac that bears his name was first published in 1697, originally giving weather and astrological predications, and is still published annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "5585739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5585739", "title": "Gazetteer of India, Union Territory: Goa, Daman and Diu", "text": "Gazetteer of India, Union Territory: Goa, Daman and Diu\n\nThe Gazetteer of India, Union Territory: Goa, Daman and Diu is an official publication from the Government of Goa, published in 1979, and contains a lot of background information and history about the region of Goa.\n\nThis book's editor was Dr V. T. Gune, then Director of Archives, Archaeology and the Executive Editor and Member Secretary of the Goa Gazetteer editorial board. This publication came from the Government of the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu's Gazetteer Department. It was printed by the Government Central Press of Bombay (now Mumbai).\n\nIt has not been updated since its publication, and no new volume of its kind has been put out yet.\n\nThis book was published less than two decades after Portuguese colonial rule ended. This probably gets reflected in the attempt to be extra-critical of Portuguese rule, while play-up the positive changes brought in post-1961.\n"}
{"id": "39206381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39206381", "title": "Get a Horse!", "text": "Get a Horse!\n\nGet a Horse! is a 2013 American 3D animated slapstick comedy short film, produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios. Combining black-and-white hand-drawn animation and color CGI animation, the short features the characters of the late 1920s \"Mickey Mouse\" cartoons, and features archival recordings of Walt Disney in his posthumous role as Mickey Mouse. It is the first original Mickey Mouse theatrical animated short since \"Runaway Brain\" (1995), and the first appearance of Oswald the Lucky Rabbit in a Disney animated production in 85 years.\n\nMickey Mouse walks from his house and spots Horace Horsecollar pulling a hay wagon with all his friends playing music. He hops on the wagon and helps up Minnie Mouse and Clarabelle Cow (who jumped on his leg) onto the wagon. Just then, Peg-Leg Pete shows up in his jalopy, his horn bellows in a high pitched voice \"Make way for the future!\". Pete spots Minnie and gives her a flirty gaze, so Mickey puts Clarabelle in the gaze in Minnie's place much to Pete's disgust and horror. Angry at being pranked, Pete kidnaps Minnie and rams his car into the wagon, sending Mickey and Horace flying towards the screen. Seeing Mickey and Horace bounce off the fabric, Pete hurls them even harder into the screen until they burst from their two-dimensional, black and white world to the three-dimensional, colorful and modern movie theater. As Pete taunts Mickey from inside the screen and closes the hole in the screen, Mickey tries to get back into his world, pulling back the curtains to reveal a wider screen. Horace then walks onto the stage wearing a Captain America T-shirt, glasses and carrying a smartphone, Hershey's Milk Duds and popcorn. Mickey decides to use Horace as a mock biplane to fly around the theater and fire at Pete with Hershey's Milk Duds. When they crash land onto the stage, Mickey finds the smartphone Horace brought (and apparently stole) onto the stage, so he calls Pete on his candlestick phone and Horace sprays foam from a fire extinguisher into the smartphone and out from Pete's phone.\n\nPete's car then lands in a frozen lake and the screen fills with water, giving Mickey the idea to poke a hole in the screen with his tail and let the water leak out, causing Pete, Minnie and the other cartoon animals to flood out onto the stage. Minnie is unsure about the new area, asking Mickey if they've landed in Poughkeepsie. Mickey and Minnie's reunion is short-lived, however, as Pete gives chase to the characters in and out of the screen until he kidnaps Minnie again, punches Mickey onto a support beam and nails the screen shut. Horace and the others decide to swing from the beam and try to break through the screen like a wrecking ball, but the plan only manages to flip the screen upside-down, causing Pete to fall from the ground.\n\nMickey and the others flip it again and Pete lands on the ground, his car crashing down on him. Getting an idea, Minnie encourages Mickey to flip the screen again, this time having Pete land on a cactus, which sets off a chain of events. First, Pete gets an electrical shock on some telephone cables, then he has his face get hit by all the steps on a ladder, lands face first in the mud, and gets his rear end poked on a pitchfork, and falls onto a seesaw, where he gets hit on the head by numerous tools. Then one of the tools, a sledgehammer, rams the pitchfork deeper into his rear end. Finally, the sledgehammer falls on the opposite side of the seesaw, where Pete is launched, also making the pitchfork fly off of his rear, and lands face-first in his jalopy.\n\nHorace, Mickey, and Minnie begin to laugh hysterically at Pete's pain. Suddenly, Horace's hand gets stuck behind the screen due to him pounding the screen. Mickey tries to pull him out, but only succeeds by spinning the screen horizontally like a flip-book. To Mickey's realization, it rewinds the scene. Seeing this as an opportunity, Mickey and Horace begin spinning the screen around like a flip-book until Pete is completely knocked out.\n\nMinnie then drives Pete's car with Pete in tow and completely tears the screen down, revealing the black-and-white world in color for the first time. Mickey and his friends enter their world again and dance for a moment while Oswald briefly peeks out from the side of the screen. The horn that was on Pete's car tells an unconscious Pete, \"Ah, get a horse!\", before Mickey and his friends bring down a new screen, then Mickey waves goodbye to Pete and the audience, and he and Minnie give Horace a kiss on the cheeks as Horace blushes. As the iris closes, Pete, who has woken up by now, tries to get back in through the screen, but gets his head (and half his body) stuck. Seconds later, the flap on Pete's pants open up to reveal the words \"THE END\" and Pete bellows \"Hey!!\", as the screen cuts to the credits. After the credits, the Walt Disney Pictures logo is in black-and-white, and Clarabelle jumps over the castle, making the arch with her milk.\n\n\nAdditional voices\n\n\"Get a Horse!\" was conceived and directed by Lauren MacMullan, who became the first woman to solo direct a Disney animated film. She started working on the short after \"Wreck-It Ralph\" director, Rich Moore, told her that Disney was looking for some Mickey Mouse ideas for television. Being fond of the earliest Mickey Mouse shorts, mostly because of their simplicity and freshness, she decided for a style resembling the 1920s animation. Produced in a year and 6 months, its hand-drawn animation was supervised by Eric Goldberg, and its computer animation by Adam Green. To achieve the 1928 look, aging and blur filters were added to the image, while for the CG part, they created new models, faithful to the character designs of 1928. Originally temporary, the production team incorporated archival recordings of Walt Disney's Mickey Mouse voice from 1928 to 1947, and spliced it into the character's dialogue. However, they did not find recordings of some words, including the word \"red\", so the crew took three sounds, a \"rrr\", a \"ehh\", and a \"duh\" from Disney's recordings and spliced them together.\n\n\"Get a Horse!\" premiered June 11, 2013 at the Annecy International Animated Film Festival in Annecy, France. It made its United States premiere on August 9, 2013, at the D23 Expo in Anaheim, California, and theatrically accompanied Walt Disney Animation Studios' \"Frozen\", which was released on November 27, 2013.\n\n\"Get a Horse!\" is currently presented as part of the Disney-Pixar Short Film Festival attraction at Disney's Epcot theme park in Orlando, Florida, where it is presented in digital 3-D along with two other short films.\n\n\"Get a Horse!\" made its home debut on the Blu-ray and DVD release of \"Frozen\" on March 18, 2014. \"Get a Horse!\" was released on the \"Walt Disney Animation Studios Short Films Collection\" Blu-ray on August 18, 2015. The short was re-released on Blu-ray/DVD/Digital on the 2018 \"Celebrating Mickey\" compilation.\n\nTodd McCarthy of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" lauded the short film as \"one of the wittiest and most inventive animated shorts in a long time\". He particularly points out that the film \"begins as an early black-and-white Mickey Mouse cartoon but then bursts its boundaries into color and 3D in marvelously antic ways that call to mind the stepping-off-the-screen techniques of Buster Keaton's \"Sherlock Jr.\" and Woody Allen's \"The Purple Rose of Cairo\". It's a total winner.\" Scott Foundas of \"Variety\" agreed, labeling the film as \"utterly dazzling\". Drew McWeeny of HitFix lauded it as \"the perfect companion piece\" and \"enormously entertaining\". He continues on that \"Filmmaker Lauren MacMullan perfectly nails the look and feel of the early days of the Disney studio, and it is the first time I have ever laughed out loud at Mickey Mouse. It's an inventive and technically precise short, and it also celebrates and deconstructs Disney's animated history in a very fun way.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12575998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12575998", "title": "Handbook (LDS Church)", "text": "Handbook (LDS Church)\n\nThe Handbook (formerly the Church Handbook of Instructions and earlier the General Handbook of Instructions) is a two-volume book of instructions and policies for leaders of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). The books are prepared by the church's First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. Along with the church's standard works (i.e., its scriptural canon), the \"Handbook\" stands as the preeminent policy and practice guide for the leaders of the LDS Church. The LDS Church distributes copies of the handbook only to individuals who fill certain leadership callings within the church hierarchy, but one of the two volumes can be accessed on the church's official website.\n\nIn general, the \"Handbook\" contains institutional church policies, as opposed to church doctrine. However, brief statements of doctrine are commonly presented at the start of sections in the handbook to provide the doctrinal context in which the policies are being set and implemented. In that way, the \"Handbook\" unifies the church's scripture and creeds with its ecclesiology and polity.\n\n\"Handbook\" acts as a \"standard reference point\" for bishops and other leaders to make decisions. The leaders are encouraged to follow the handbook \"with the guidance of the Holy Ghost\" and with \"sensitivity to individual circumstances.\"\n\nThe \"Handbook\" is divided into two volumes. However, \"Handbook 1\" is not available to the general public or the general church membership. On the other hand, the text of \"Handbook 2\" can be accessed on the church's official website.\n\n\"Handbook 1\" is subtitled \"Stake Presidents and Bishops\". It contains information that is primarily relevant to the functions and duties of stake presidents, bishops, mission presidents, district presidents, branch presidents, and their counselors. Other individuals who receive a copy of are temple presidents and their counselors, general authorities, general auxiliary presidencies, area seventies, and ward and branch clerks.\n\nThe topics in \"Handbook 1\" include guidelines involving general, area, and regional administration; duties of the stake president; duties of the bishop; temples and marriage; missionary service; administering church welfare; church discipline and name removal; interviews and counseling; physical facilities; creating, changing, and naming new units; military relations; Church Educational System; Perpetual Education Fund; records and reports; finances; stake patriarch; ordinance and blessing policies; and general church policies on administrative, medical and health, and moral issues.\n\nThe church has stated that it did not place \"Handbook 1\" online with \"Handbook 2\" because church authorities were concerned that if it were widely read by the church membership, members \"might decide they don’t need to go see their bishop... It made much more sense to reserve that volume for leaders.\"\n\n\"Handbook 2\" is subtitled \"Administering the Church\". It contains information primarily relevant to the functions of the leaders of the church's priesthood quorums and auxiliary organizations. Every quorum president and auxiliary organization leader at stake, ward, district, and branch levels receives a copy of \"Handbook 2\", just as most of the individuals who receive \"Handbook 1\". Counselors to quorum or auxiliary presidencies and stake high councilors also receive copies of \"Handbook 2\", just like other leaders in church congregations.\n\nThe topics in \"Handbook 2\" include guidelines involving families and the church in God's plan, priesthood principles, leadership in the church, the ward council, the work of salvation in the ward and stake, welfare principles and leadership, Melchizedek priesthood, Aaronic priesthood, Relief Society, Young Women, Primary, Sunday School, activities, music, stake organization, single members, uniformity and adaptation, meetings in the church, callings in the church, and priesthood ordinances and blessings. \"Handbook 2\" also contains some of the general church policies on administrative, health, and moral issues that are contained in \"Handbook 1\".\n\nOccasionally, updates, supplements, or changes of material in the \"Handbook\" with written directives from the church's First Presidency, Quorum of the Twelve, or Presiding Bishopric are released. Leaders are instructed to write the changes into their copies of the handbook and to keep the handbook and the supplemental materials together. New editions of the handbook are published to incorporate the issued supplements into the text of the handbook.\n\n\"Handbook 1\" is not available to the general public or the general church membership. The text of \"Handbook 2\" is available on the church's official website. In the past, unauthorized copies of the restricted handbook have been made available on the internet. The church asserts copyright over the contents of the \"Handbook\" and prohibits its duplication. The handbook emphasizes that it has been prepared solely for use by general and local church officers to administer the affairs of the church. The copyright to the \"Handbook\" is owned by Intellectual Reserve, Inc., a corporation that is owned by the LDS Church, which owns the church's intellectual property rights.\n\nAfter the 1998 version of the \"Church Handbook\" was published, Jerald and Sandra Tanner's Utah Lighthouse Ministry published portions of it on the internet without permission from the church or including the book's copyright notice. The text was also disseminated to other websites, which the ULM's website linked to. In the 1999 lawsuit \"Intellectual Reserve v. Utah Lighthouse Ministry\", a United States district court issued an injunction prohibiting the further duplication of the contents of the handbook and ordered ULM to remove the offending material from its website.\n\nIn May 2008, the LDS Church notified the Wikimedia Foundation that it believed the copyright to the \"Handbook of Instructions\" had been violated by a link posted in Wikinews. The link directed readers to the text of the handbook on the WikiLeaks website, unaffiliated with the Wikimedia Foundation. Shortly after the complaint was made, Wikinews removed the link to the text from the article.\n\nIn 2010, the church placed the new \"Handbook 2\" on its official website, which was seen as \"part of a recent trend in the church to become more transparent.\"\n\nAlthough the \"Handbook\" covers a wide variety of topics related to church organization and policy, media attention has focused largely on the church's policies on social issues that are outlined in the \"Handbook\". As summarized by the \"Salt Lake Tribune\", the \"Handbook\" states that the LDS Church\n\nopposes gambling (including government-run lotteries), guns in churches, euthanasia, Satan worship and hypnotism for entertainment. It \"strongly discourages\" surrogate motherhood, sperm donation, surgical sterilizations (including vasectomies) and artificial insemination — when \"using semen from anyone but the husband.\" But [the church] supports organ donation, paying income taxes, members running for political office and autopsies — \"if the family of the deceased gives consent.\"\n\nRegarding birth control, the \"Tribune\" comments:\n\nThe handbook says it is a \"privilege\" for Mormon couples to nurture and rear children, but the decision of how many to have is \"extremely intimate and private and should be left between the couple and the Lord.\" Moreover, church members \"should not judge one another in this matter.\" The book also says sexual relations in marriage \"are divinely approved not only for the purpose of procreation, but also as a way of expressing love and strengthening emotional and spiritual bonds between husband and wife.\"\n\nThe \"Tribune\" has also noted that the LDS Church discourages the use of in vitro fertilization using semen and ova from people outside the couple and that the LDS Church has no official stance on drinking Coca-Cola.\n\nThe \"Tribune\" quoted one member of the church as applauding the public availability of the \"Handbook\", as it will allow the members of the church to become more familiar with the church's stance on certain social issues:\n\n“I've known church members who were shocked that the handbook strongly discourages vasectomies. They had no idea that there was any policy concerning it... If there are such policies, I think it is wise that everyone — not just those with leadership callings — knows about them.\"\n\nSome members have complained that the \"Handbook\" does not always explain the doctrinal justification for the church's stance on certain social issues, such as that related to artificial insemination of single women in the church. The \"Handbook\" states that artificial insemination of single women in the church \"is not approved\" and that \"single sisters who deliberately refuse to follow the counsel of church leaders in this matter are subject to church discipline\" but it does not explain why similar treatment would not be meted out to single women in the church who adopt children.\n\nThe document that is identified as the first \"Church Handbook of Instructions\" was published in 1899 as a small, 14-page booklet. It primarily contained instructions on how to manage in-kind payments of tithing by church members. The handbook was revised every year until 1910 and approximately every five years thereafter. The book has been variously called the \"Annual Instructions\", the \"Circular of Instructions\", the \"Handbook of Instructions\", the \"General Handbook of Instructions\", the \"Church Handbook of Instructions\", and finally the \"Handbook\".\n\nIn 1998, the book was split into two volumes for the first time and was renamed the \"Church Handbook of Instructions\". A new edition was published and released to church leaders in November 2010, with the new names \"Handbook 1\" and \"Handbook 2\". One of the major changes between the 2006 and 2010 versions of the handbook is that the 2010 version \"has softened the language about gay Mormons\" and eliminated statements \"that same-sex relationships 'distort loving relationships' and that gays should repent of their 'homosexual thoughts or feelings.'\"\n\nThe following chronological listing of the publication's history was taken from an article by Edward L. Kimball (until 24(A)), supplemented with a list of later editions:\n\n"}
{"id": "25897681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25897681", "title": "Harrison's Reports and Film Reviews", "text": "Harrison's Reports and Film Reviews\n\nHarrison's Reports and Film Reviews is the 15-volume reprint of the complete run of the weekly magazine \"Harrison's Reports\" from its founding in 1919 to its demise in 1962. Volumes 1 through 14 are facsimile reprints of the more than 2,000 weekly issues. The reprints were edited by D. Richard Baer and published 1992-1995 by Hollywood Film Archive.\n\nVolume 15 is an alphabetical index of the films reviews, approximately 17,000 in all. Films are also indexed by alternate titles and original foreign language titles.\n\nOver 99% of the reprints were reproduced from original issues, the rest from photocopies or microfilm blowups. The index volume includes a two-page narrative titled “A Brief History of these Reprints” about how all the issues were gathered.\n\nAt the front of each volume is a one-page summary of the more important issues discussed in the editorials of that period.\n\n\"Harrison's Reports\" published its own index up to eight times per year. In the reprint volumes, these indexes are printed on yellow paper at the beginning of each calendar year's gathered reprints of 52 (occasionally 53) weeks of issues.\n\nAlthough \"Harrison's Reports\" reviewed only feature films, not shorts, the indexes included lists of forthcoming and recently released shorts, grouped by releasing company. Published separately from these reprints, \"An Index to Short Subjects Listed in Harrison’s Reports 1926-1962\" by Gerald Jones (self-published November 2004) is a complete alphabetical index of all the shorts and cartoons listed in the many separate indexes. This index used to be available online.\n\nThe review by \"Library Journal\" stated, “Taken in its 43-year entirety, Harrison's Reports is a very useful reflection of the industry's major trends and provides something of a social history of the United States as well.”\n\n\"Harrison’s Reports\" is one of the three English-language periodicals with 10,000 or more film reviews reprinted in book form. The other two are\n"}
{"id": "142431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142431", "title": "Homology (biology)", "text": "Homology (biology)\n\nIn biology, homology is the existence of shared ancestry between a pair of structures, or genes, in different taxa. A common example of homologous structures is the forelimbs of vertebrates, where the wings of bats, the arms of primates, the front flippers of whales and the forelegs of dogs and horses are all derived from the same ancestral tetrapod structure. Evolutionary biology explains homologous structures adapted to different purposes as the result of descent with modification from a common ancestor. The term was first applied to biology in a non-evolutionary context by the anatomist Richard Owen in 1843. Homology was later explained by Charles Darwin's theory of evolution in 1859, but had been observed before this, from Aristotle onwards, and it was explicitly analysed by Pierre Belon in 1555.\n\nIn developmental biology, organs that developed in the embryo in the same manner and from similar origins, such as from matching primordia in successive segments of the same animal, are serially homologous. Examples include the legs of a centipede, the maxillary palp and labial palp of an insect, and the spinous processes of successive vertebrae in a vertebral column. Male and female reproductive organs are homologous if they develop from the same embryonic tissue, as do the ovaries and testicles of mammals including humans.\n\nSequence homology between protein or DNA sequences is similarly defined in terms of shared ancestry. Two segments of DNA can have shared ancestry because of either a speciation event (orthologs) or a duplication event (paralogs). Homology among proteins or DNA is inferred from their sequence similarity. Significant similarity is strong evidence that two sequences are related by divergent evolution from a common ancestor. Alignments of multiple sequences are used to discover the homologous regions.\n\nHomology remains controversial in animal behaviour, but there is suggestive evidence that, for example, dominance hierarchies are homologous across the primates.\n\nHomology was noticed by Aristotle (c. 350 BC), and was explicitly analysed by Pierre Belon in his 1555 \"Book of Birds\", where he systematically compared the skeletons of birds and humans. The pattern of similarity was interpreted as part of the static great chain of being through the mediaeval and early modern periods: it was not then seen as implying evolutionary change.\nIn the German \"Naturphilosophie\" tradition, homology was of special interest as demonstrating unity in nature.\nIn 1790, Goethe stated his foliar theory in his essay \"Metamorphosis of Plants\", showing that flower part are derived from leaves.\nThe serial homology of limbs was described late in the 18th century.\nThe French zoologist Etienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire showed in 1818 in his \"theorie d'analogue\" (\"theory of homologues\") that structures were shared between fishes, reptiles, birds, and mammals. When Geoffroy went further and sought homologies between Georges Cuvier's \"embranchements\", such as vertebrates and molluscs, his claims triggered the 1830 Cuvier-Geoffroy debate. Geoffroy stated the principle of connections, namely that what is important is the relative position of different structures and their connections to each other.\nThe Estonian embryologist Karl Ernst von Baer stated what are now called von Baer's laws in 1828, noting that related animals begin their development as similar embryos and then diverge: thus, animals in the same family are more closely related and diverge later than animals which are only in the same order and have fewer homologies. von Baer's theory recognises that each taxon (such as a family) has distinctive shared features, and that embryonic development parallels the taxonomic hierarchy: not the same as recapitulation theory.\nThe term \"homology\" was first used in biology by the anatomist Richard Owen in 1843 when studying the similarities of vertebrate fins and limbs, contrasting it with the matching term \"analogy\" which he used to describe different structures with the same function.\nRichard Owen codified 3 main criteria for determining if features were homologous: position, development, composition. In 1859, Charles Darwin explained homologous structures as meaning that the organisms concerned shared a body plan from a common ancestor, and that taxa were branches of a single tree of life.\n\nThe word homology, coined in about 1656, is derived from the Greek ὁμόλογος \"homologos\" from ὁμός \"homos\" \"same\" and λόγος \"logos\" \"relation\".\n\nBiological structures or sequences in different taxa are homologous if they are derived from a common ancestor. Homology thus implies divergent evolution. For example, many insects (such as dragonflies) possess two pairs of flying wings. In beetles, the first pair of wings has evolved into a pair of hard wing covers, while in Dipteran flies the second pair of wings has evolved into small halteres used for balance.\n\nSimilarly, the forelimbs of ancestral vertebrates have evolved into the front flippers of whales, the wings of birds, the running forelegs of dogs, deer, and horses, the short forelegs of frogs and lizards, and the grasping hands of primates including humans. The same major forearm bones (humerus, radius, and ulna) are found in fossils of lobe-finned fish such as \"Eusthenopteron\".\n\nThe opposite of homologous organs are analogous organs which do similar jobs in two taxa that were not present in their last common ancestor but rather evolved separately. For example, the wings of insects and birds evolved independently in widely separated groups, and converged functionally to support powered flight, so they are analogous. Similarly, the wings of a sycamore maple seed and the wings of a bird are analogous but not homologous, as they develop from quite different structures. A structure can be homologous at one level, but only analogous at another. Pterosaur, bird and bat wings are analogous as wings, but homologous as forelimbs because the organ served as a forearm (not a wing) in the last common ancestor of tetrapods, and evolved in different ways in the three groups. Thus, in the pterosaurs, the \"wing\" involves both the forelimb and the hindlimb. Analogy is called homoplasy in cladistics, and convergent or parallel evolution in evolutionary biology.\n\nSpecialised terms are used in taxonomic research. Primary homology is a researcher's initial hypothesis based on similar structure or anatomical connections, suggesting that a character state in two or more taxa share is shared due to common ancestry. Primary homology may be conceptually broken down further: we may consider all of the states of the same character as \"homologous\" parts of a single, unspecified, transformation series. This has been referred to as topographical correspondence. For example, in an aligned DNA sequence matrix, all of the A, G, C, T or implied gaps at a given nucleotide site are homologous in this way. Character state identity is the hypothesis that the particular condition in two or more taxa is \"the same\" as far as our character coding scheme is concerned. Thus, two Adenines at the same aligned nucleotide site are hypothesized to be homologous unless that hypothesis is subsequently contradicted by other evidence. Secondary homology is implied by parsimony analysis, where a character state that arises only once on a tree is taken to be homologous. As implied in this definition, many cladists consider secondary homology to be synonymous with synapomorphy, a shared derived character or trait state that distinguishes a clade from other organisms.\n\nShared ancestral character states, symplesiomorphies, represent either synapomorphies of a more inclusive group, or complementary states (often absences) that unite no natural group of organisms. For example, the presence of wings is a synapomorphy for pterygote insects, but a symplesiomorphy for holometabolous insects. Absence of wings in non-pterygote insects and other organisms is a complementary symplesiomorphy that unites no group (for example, absence of wings provides no evidence of common ancestry of silverfish, spiders and annelid worms). On the other hand, absence (or secondary loss) of wings is a synapomorphy for fleas. Patterns such as these lead many cladists to consider the concept of homology and the concept of synapomorphy to be equivalent. It should be noted that some cladists follow the pre-cladistic definition of homology of Haas and Simpson, and view both synapomorphies and symplesiomorphies as homologous character states\n\nHomologies provide the fundamental basis for all biological classification, although some may be highly counter-intuitive. For example, deep homologies like the \"pax6\" genes that control the development of the eyes of vertebrates and arthropods were unexpected, as the organs are anatomically dissimilar and appeared to have evolved entirely independently.\n\nThe embryonic body segments (somites) of different arthropods taxa have diverged from a simple body plan with many similar appendages which are serially homologous, into a variety of body plans with fewer segments equipped with specialised appendages. The homologies between these have been discovered by comparing genes in evolutionary developmental biology.\n\nAmong insects, the stinger of the female honey bee is a modified ovipositor, homologous with ovipositors in other insects such as the Orthoptera, Hemiptera, and those Hymenoptera without stingers.\n\nThe three small bones in the middle ear of mammals including humans, the malleus, incus, and stapes, are today used to transmit sound from the eardrum to the inner ear. The malleus and incus develop in the embryo from structures that form jaw bones (the quadrate and the articular) in lizards, and in fossils of lizard-like ancestors of mammals. Both lines of evidence show that these bones are homologous, sharing a common ancestor.\n\nAmong the many homologies in mammal reproductive systems, ovaries and testicles are homologous.\n\nRudimentary organs such as the human tailbone, now much reduced from their functional state, are readily understood as signs of evolution, the explanation being that they were cut down by natural selection from functioning organs when their functions were no longer needed, but make no sense at all if species are considered to be fixed. The tailbone is homologous to the tails of other primates.\n\nIn many plants, defensive or storage structures are made by modifications of the development of primary leaves, stems, and roots. Leaves are variously modified from photosynthetic structures to form the insect-trapping pitchers of pitcher plants, the insect-trapping jaws of Venus flytrap, and the spines of cactuses, all homologous.\n\nCertain compound leaves of flowering plants are partially homologous both to leaves and shoots, because their development has evolved from a genetic mosaic of leaf and shoot development.\n\nThe four types of flower parts, namely carpels, stamens, petals, and sepals, are homologous with and derived from leaves, as Goethe correctly noted in 1790. The development of these parts through a pattern of gene expression in the growing zones (meristems) is described by the ABC model of flower development. Each of the four types of flower parts is serially repeated in concentric whorls, controlled by a small number of genes acting in various combinations. Thus, A genes working alone result in sepal formation; A and B together produce petals; B and C together create stamens; C alone produces carpels. When none of the genes are active, leaves are formed. Two more groups of genes, D to form ovules and E for the floral whorls, complete the model. The genes are evidently ancient, as old as the flowering plants themselves.\n\nDevelopmental biology can identify homologous structures that arose from the same tissue in embryogenesis. For example, adult snakes have no legs, but their early embryos have limb-buds for hind legs, which are soon lost as the embryos develop. The implication that the ancestors of snakes had hind legs is confirmed by fossil evidence: the Cretaceous snake \"Pachyrhachis problematicus\" had hind legs complete with hip bones (ilium, pubis, ischium), thigh bone (femur), leg bones (tibia, fibula) and foot bones (calcaneum, astragalus) as in tetrapods with legs today.\n\nAs with anatomical structures, sequence homology between protein or DNA sequences is defined in terms of shared ancestry. Two segments of DNA can have shared ancestry because of either a speciation event (orthologs) or a duplication event (paralogs). Homology among proteins or DNA is typically inferred from their sequence similarity. Significant similarity is strong evidence that two sequences are related by divergent evolution of a common ancestor. Alignments of multiple sequences are used to indicate which regions of each sequence are homologous.\n\nHomologous sequences are orthologous if they are descended from the same ancestral sequence separated by a speciation event: when a species diverges into two separate species, the copies of a single gene in the two resulting species are said to be \"orthologous\". The term \"ortholog\" was coined in 1970 by the molecular evolutionist Walter Fitch.\n\nHomologous sequences are paralogous if they were created by a duplication event within the genome. For gene duplication events, if a gene in an organism is duplicated to occupy two different positions in the same genome, then the two copies are paralogous. Paralogous genes often belong to the same species. They can shape the structure of whole genomes and thus explain genome evolution to a large extent. Examples include the Homeobox (Hox) genes in animals. These genes not only underwent gene duplications within chromosomes but also whole genome duplications. As a result, Hox genes in most vertebrates are spread across multiple chromosomes: the HoxA–D clusters are the best studied.\n\nIt has been suggested that some behaviours might be homologous, based either on sharing across related taxa or on common origins of the behaviour in an individual's development, though this remains controversial. For example, D. W. Rajecki and Randall C. Flanery, using data on humans and on nonhuman primates, argue that patterns of behaviour in dominance hierarchies are homologous across the primates.\n\n"}
{"id": "1152098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1152098", "title": "Imperial War Museum Duxford", "text": "Imperial War Museum Duxford\n\nImperial War Museum Duxford is a branch of the Imperial War Museum near Duxford in Cambridgeshire, England. Britain's largest aviation museum, Duxford houses the museum's large exhibits, including nearly 200 aircraft, military vehicles, artillery and minor naval vessels in seven main exhibition buildings. The site also provides storage space for the museum's other collections of material such as film, photographs, documents, books and artefacts. The site accommodates several British Army regimental museums, including those of the Parachute Regiment (named \"Airborne Assault\") and the Royal Anglian Regiment.\n\nBased on the historic Duxford Aerodrome, the site was originally operated by the Royal Air Force (RAF) during the First World War. During the Second World War Duxford played a prominent role during the Battle of Britain and was later used by United States Army Air Forces fighter units in support of the daylight bombing of Germany. Duxford remained an active RAF airfield until 1961. After the Ministry of Defence declared the site surplus to requirements in 1969 the Imperial War Museum received permission to use part of the site for storage. The entirety of the site was transferred to the museum in February 1976.\n\nIn keeping with the site's history many of Duxford's original buildings, such as hangars used during the Battle of Britain, are still in use. Many of these buildings are of particular architectural or historic significance and over thirty have listed building status, Duxford \"retain[ing] the best-preserved technical fabric remaining from [a historic airfield] up to November 1918\" and being \"remarkably well-preserved\". The site also features several purpose-built exhibition buildings, such as the Stirling Prize-winning American Air Museum, designed by Sir Norman Foster. The site remains an active airfield and is used by civilian flying companies, and hosts regular air shows. The site is operated in partnership with Cambridgeshire County Council and the Duxford Aviation Society, a charity formed in 1975 to preserve civil aircraft and promote appreciation of British civil aviation history.\n\nThe Imperial War Museum originated during the First World War in 1917 as the National War Museum committee, formed by the British government to record the war effort and sacrifice of Britain and her Empire. The museum opened in 1920, by which point it had been renamed the \"Imperial\" War Museum. With the outbreak of the Second World War, the museum's terms of reference were enlarged to include the conflict. The museum's terms of reference was broadened again in 1953 to include all modern conflicts in which British or Commonwealth forces were engaged. The effect of these expansions of remit was to cause the museum's collections to expand enormously, to the point that many parts of the collection, especially those of aircraft, vehicles and artillery, could not be effectively stored or exhibited. Although the museum's south London home (a nineteenth-century building in Southwark which was previously the Bethlem Royal Hospital) had been extended in 1966, by the end of the decade the museum was seeking additional space.\n\nRAF Duxford, a Royal Air Force fighter station had been declared surplus to requirements by the Ministry of Defence in 1969, and the museum duly requested permission to use part of one of the airfield's hangars as temporary storage. Duxford featured three double bay hangars of First World War vintage, which together provided over 9000 m of space. Within two years, ten of the museum's aircraft had been brought to Duxford, and were being restored by volunteers of the East Anglia Aviation Society. While the museum's own aircraft were not restored to flying condition, by cooperating with private groups the museum was able to mount its first airshow in 1973. Further air shows followed, with a display in June 1976 attracting an audience of 45,000 people. The runway was bought by Cambridgeshire County Council in 1977. The success of these shows provided a valuable source of revenue, and complemented the efforts of volunteers, so that the museum applied for the permanent transfer of the entire site to its use. Permission was received in February 1976 and Duxford became the first outstation of the Imperial War Museum. Initially open from March–October, Duxford received 167,000 visitors in the 1977 season, and 340,000 in 1978. Two million visitors had been received by 1982 and Duxford welcomed its ten millionth visitor in August 2005.\n\nDuxford has been associated with British military aviation since 1917, when a site near the village of Duxford, in southern Cambridgeshire, was selected for a new Royal Flying Corps training aerodrome. From 1925 Duxford became a fighter airfield, a role it was to retain until the end of its operational life, and in August 1938 the Duxford-based No.19 Squadron RAF became the first to operate the Supermarine Spitfire.\n\nWith the outbreak of war in September 1939 Duxford was home to three RAF squadrons engaged on coastal patrol duties. From July 1940, Duxford saw considerable action during the Battle of Britain as a sector station of RAF Fighter Command's No. 12 Group. In the middle years of the war Duxford was home to specialist units, such as the tacticians and engineers of the Air Fighting Development Unit. In April 1942 the first Typhoon Wing was formed at Duxford. Notable among the pilots of the Wing was Group Captain John Grandy who would later rise to be Chief of the Air Staff and also served as Chairman of the Trustees of the Imperial War Museum from 1978 to 1989.\n\nIn March 1943 the United States Army Air Forces' 78th Fighter Group started to arrive at Duxford with their Republic P-47 Thunderbolts. The Group reequipped with North American P-51 Mustangs in December 1944 and until the end of the war in Europe the Group remained at Duxford carrying out bomber escort and fighter sweeps, ground strafing and ground attack missions.\n\nDuxford was officially returned to the RAF on 1 December 1945. It remained a fighter station but by 1958 changing defence priorities saw the RAF's fighter force move to more northerly bases. Duxford's last operational flight was made in July 1961. No longer operational, the site gradually became increasingly derelict and overgrown. In 1968 the American film studio United Artists obtained permission to use the site for the filming of \"Battle of Britain\". During the shoot a single bay hangar, which had been built during the First World War, was demolished to simulate an air raid. After the Ministry of Defence announced its intention to dispose of Duxford plans were drawn up for various developments including two Young Offenders Institutes but were not implemented.\n\nDuxford is operated in partnership between the Imperial War Museum, Cambridgeshire County Council and the Duxford Aviation Society. The Society is a registered charity (No. 285809) and states two objectives; to educate the public by collecting and exhibiting historic aircraft, military vehicles and boats, and to support the Imperial War Museum.\n\nThe Society was formed in 1975 from a divergence of members of the East Anglian Aviation Society, which now operates the Bassingbourn Tower Museum at the former RAF Bassingbourn.\n\nDuxford Aviation Society preserves and maintains the Civil Aviation Collection. Especially notable aircraft in the collection include a de Havilland Comet which made the first eastbound jet-powered trans-Atlantic passenger flight on 4 October 1958, and Concorde G-AXDN 101, a pre-production aircraft which achieved the highest speed of any Concorde, making a westwards trans-Atlantic flight in two hours, 56 minutes.\n\nIn support of the Museum's goals, the DAS Military Vehicle Wing provides one of the world's leading teams of military vehicle restoration engineers The Wing (or its volunteers) own some of the vehicles located at Duxford, and provide restoration services for vehicles within the museum's collection. The team also operate vehicles for demonstrations during the year. The wing's works have been featured in the Discovery Channel's Tank Overhaul programme, James May's 20th Century, and wide variety of magazines and other media.\n\nOther elements of the society provide or support a range of functions at the Duxford site, including canteen, aircraft conservation, learning and interpretative activities and administrative tasks. An affiliated group, the Duxford Radio Society, collects, preserves, exhibits, and demonstrates historic military electronic equipment. This is housed in Buildings 177 and 178, close to the Gibraltar Gun.\n\nSince January 1999, the Society have operated the Friends of Duxford membership scheme with the Museum.\n\nAs of 2008, the Duxford Aviation Society had almost 700 volunteer members.\n\nDuxford remains an active airfield and maintains two parallel runways; an unpaved 880 m grass strip, and a concrete runway with a usable length of 1199 m, both oriented at 060/240-degrees. The runway was originally purchased from the Ministry of Defence by the Cambridgeshire County Council in 1977. In October 2008, an agreement was reached between the council and the Imperial War Museum, under which the runways and of surrounding grassland would be sold to the museum for approximately £1.6 million.\n\nSince 1973, Duxford has held regular air shows. Duxford is the home of several private aviation companies, such as Classic Wings, The Fighter Collection, the Old Flying Machine Company and The Aircraft Restoration Company. Between them these companies provide pleasure flights, historic aircraft for film or television work, and aircraft restoration services. Perhaps the most notable privately owned and operated aircraft based at Duxford is B-17 Preservation Ltd's \"Sally B\", the only airworthy B-17 Flying Fortress in Europe.\n\nMajor air shows held regularly include the Duxford Air Show, the Flying Legends show (organised by The Fighter Collection), and American Air Day, which is held in conjunction with units of the Third Air Force (part of the United States Air Forces in Europe), based at nearby RAF Lakenheath and RAF Mildenhall. The Duxford Air Show usually exhibits a wide range of aircraft, from vintage warbirds to contemporary jet aircraft, along with aerobatic flying by groups such as the Red Arrows. while the Flying Legends show focuses on historic aircraft, especially those of the Second World War. In 2008 it was reported that these displays generate up to £1.8 million, while the loss of up to £100,000 due to adverse weather is also budgeted for. The policing bill, necessary to manage the resulting road traffic, was reported as some £8,000. Recent major events have included the Battle of Britain 70th Anniversary airshow, held on 4–5 September 2010. The show was attended by more than 40,000 people, and featured formation displays by four Hawker Hurricanes and sixteen Spitfires.\n\nAs an active civil airfield, operations at Duxford are regulated by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA). In 2002 a privately operated Aero L-39 Albatros suffered a braking failure on landing, overran the runway and came to rest on the M11 motorway, a student pilot being killed after ejecting at ground level. An Air Accidents Investigation Branch inquiry recommended a review of arrangements for aircraft taking off or landing towards the M11. As a result, the CAA and Duxford agreed to a reduction in the runway's 1500 m declared length, from 1350 m to 1200 m, in order to provide a greater margin of error.\n\nAs a licensed airfield Duxford has its own Fire Service (currently five vehicles, and 16 fire fighters / officers) which operates as part of the Airfield & Security department, the fire service was originally operated by voluntary crews who were part of Duxford Aviation Society, with the training officers coming from Stansted and other local airports, for the last few years it has been a mixed voluntary/full-time operation.\n\nWhen originally planned in 1917, Duxford aerodrome was to occupy a site divided by what is now the A505 road which runs north-east from Royston to Newmarket. The area north of the road would be occupied by accommodation and administrative buildings with the airfield, hangars and technical buildings on the south side. Still divided by the A505, the museum's site is now bounded to the east by the M11 motorway, which meets the A505 adjacent to the museum site at Junction 10. The construction of the M11 in 1977 forced the shortening of the runway by 300 m. In its role as a museum, the north side of the site is occupied by the Imperial War Museum's stored collections and is not generally open to the public, while the south side is occupied by various hangars and other historic buildings, purpose-built structures, and by two runways.\n\nThe south side visitor entrance, which now houses a shop and visitor facilities, was previously the airfield's armoury. The various buildings are arranged roughly parallel to the A505; AirSpace is furthest east, with Hangars 2, 3, 4 and 5 running westwards, followed by the American Air Museum and the Land Warfare Hall. The museum site is approximately 1800 m from one end to the other, and a visitor bus operates during opening hours.\n\nSome aircraft and other exhibits are displayed externally, such as a Comet tank and replica Hawker Hurricane as gate guardians at the main entrance. Several commercial airliners belonging to the Duxford Aviation Society stand on the runway apron opposite the hangars. A Bloodhound surface-to-air missile stands on the site of the demolished hangar. A United States Air Force F-15 Eagle previously stood near the American Air Museum (now hanging inside). A Royal Engineers' Centurion AVRE stands outside the Land Warfare Hall and the Gibraltar Gun, a 9.2-inch artillery piece previously emplaced on the Rock of Gibraltar is nearby.\n\nAs a historic site, many of Duxford's buildings are of particular architectural or historic significance. In 2005, following a review of sites relating to British aviation history by English Heritage, some 255 buildings at 31 sites received listed building status. Duxford contains over thirty of these buildings, the largest number at any one site. Listed buildings include three hangars dating back to the First World War and the operations block, which received Grade II* status. This block, open to the public, houses the wartime operations room from which Duxford's aircraft were directed. Another historic building, the 1918 Watch Office, will be converted to accommodate a new exhibition entitled \"Historic Duxford\". The exhibition, to open in late 2012, will depict the history of the site and the experiences of Duxford's personnel.\n\nIn 2000, Duxford announced plans for the redevelopment of Hangar 1, previously known as the 'Superhangar', which was built in the 1980s. The plans would expand the building by 40%, providing more display and conservation space, improve internal conditions, and enable the museum's British and Commonwealth aircraft collection to be brought under cover. Planning permission was received later that year. The project cost £25 million and was supported by the Heritage Lottery Fund, the East of England Development Agency and BAE Systems, which contributed £6 million. The building, which provides 12,000 m of floor space, consists of an aircraft conservation area, a large exhibition hall, and a mezzanine providing views of the aircraft and interactive educational installations exploring aeronautical engineering and the principles of flight.\n\nAirSpace officially opened to the public on 12 July 2008. Over 30 aircraft are on display, dating back to the First World War; early aircraft include rare examples of an Airco DH.9 and a Royal Aircraft Factory R.E.8. The former is one of only six surviving DH9s and the only example on display in the UK, and the latter is the only complete and original R.E.8 in existence. More recent notable aircraft include a Hawker Siddeley Harrier which served during the Falklands War with No. 1 Squadron RAF, and a Panavia Tornado, which flew the highest number of bomber sorties of any Tornado in the 1991 Gulf War. Also on display is a British Aircraft Corporation TSR-2 strike aircraft, one of only two survivors from the cancellation of the project in 1965. Recent additions include Eurofighter Typhoon DA4, one of seven Typhoon development aircraft, which was donated to the museum by the Ministry of Defence in 2008 and went on display in June 2009. Civil aircraft include the Duxford Aviation Society's Concorde and Comet described above.\n\nAirSpace also houses \"Airborne Assault\", the museum of the British Army's Parachute Regiment and airborne forces. Previously located at Browning Barracks near Aldershot, the museum opened at Duxford on 8 December 2008. The opening ceremony was led by Prince Charles, the Parachute Regiment's Colonel-in-Chief. The museum chronicles the history of British airborne forces from the Second World War to current operations in Afghanistan and cost £3 million.\n\nHangar 2 is a double Type T2 hangar, erected in the 1970s. It occupies the site of a T2 hangar erected in the 1950s. It accommodates the flyable aircraft of Duxford's private aviation companies, such as The Fighter Collection, and allows visitors to see aircraft undergoing maintenance or restoration.\n\nHangar 3, an original Belfast truss hangar, houses Duxford's maritime exhibition. The collection includes notable vessels and naval aircraft. Boats on display include Coastal Motor Boat 4, built by Thornycroft in 1916. She saw action during the Baltic campaign of 1918–19, and her commander Lieutenant Augustus Agar won the Victoria Cross for sinking the Russian cruiser \"Oleg\" on 17 June 1919. Other vessels include the Vosper motor torpedo boat MTB-71, acquired from the British Military Powerboat Trust in 2005, an example of an X-Craft midget submarine, and a wartime Royal National Lifeboat Institution boat, the \"Jesse Lumb\" which was stationed at Bembridge on the Isle of Wight. A variety of naval aircraft are on display, including a de Havilland Sea Vixen, Sea Venom, and Sea Vampire, and a Westland Wasp helicopter which was embarked on the frigate HMS \"Apollo\" during the Falklands War.\n\nHangar 4 is one of Duxford's historic hangars, and now houses an exhibition exploring Duxford's history as an operational RAF airfield from the First World War to the Cold War. The early period is represented by a Bristol Fighter, a type operated by Duxford's No.2 Flying Training School from 1920. The latter period is represented by a Hawker Hunter which flew at Duxford with No. 65 Squadron RAF, a Gloster Javelin, the type which made the last operational flight at Duxford in 1961, and by a Hungarian Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-21, a common Warsaw Pact jet fighter. Britain's air defence during the Second World War is particularly emphasised, with exhibits representing the Battle of Britain, the Blitz and the V-1 flying bomb offensive from 1944. Notable aircraft include a Messerschmitt Bf 109E which was flown during the Battle of Britain until forced down in Sussex due to engine failure. It is displayed as part of a tableau showing the crashed aircraft under guard. One unusual aircraft on display is the Cierva C.30A autogyro, which was used by 74 (Signals) Wing, based at Duxford, to test the calibration of coastal radar units.\n\nHangar 5, the westernmost original hangar, houses Duxford's aircraft conservation workshops. Open to the public, the hangar allows visitors to see museum staff and volunteers at work on a variety of conservation tasks. Notable projects include a Mitsubishi A6M Zero fighter acquired from an American owner in 'jungle recovery' condition, and a Royal Aircraft Factory R.E.8 now on display in AirSpace. Duxford is a partner with the British Aviation Preservation Council in the National Aviation Heritage Skills Initiative, which has been funded since 2005 by the Heritage Lottery Fund and aims to provide training to volunteers supporting aviation heritage projects.\n\nFrom the late 1970s the museum acquired several important American aircraft; a B-17G Flying Fortress in 1978, a B-29 Superfortress named \"It's Hawg Wild\" in 1980, and a B-52 Stratofortress in 1983. With Duxford's association with the US Army Air Forces (USAAF), in the mid-1980s plans developed for a commemoration of the role of American air power in the Second World War. A group of American supporters was formed, and the architect Sir Norman Foster was commissioned to design a new building. Fundraising for the project began in 1987, support and funds being sought in the United States; the Founding Member was General Jimmy Doolittle in 1989. Fundraising events were held across the US in Houston (1989), Washington, D.C., (1991) and Los Angeles (1992). The project was widely supported in the United States by some 50,000 individual subscribers. A further $1million of funding was secured from Saudi Arabia, and £6.5million from the Heritage Lottery Fund. On 8 September 1995 the groundbreaking for the new building was performed by wartime 78th Fighter Group veteran, Major James E Stokes.\n\nThe American Air Museum was designed by Sir Norman Foster and Chris Wise at Arup. The museum's specification called for a landmark building that would provide a neutral backdrop for the aircraft collection and provide appropriate climatic controls while being cost efficient to operate. The building is shaped as a section of a torus, formed from a curved concrete roof wide, high and deep. The dimensions of the building were dictated by the need to accommodate the museum's B-52 Stratofortress bomber with its wingspan and a tail high. The roof was constructed as a double-layered concrete shell, built in 924 precast reinforced concrete sections. Inverted T-shaped sections provided the inner layer with further flat panels forming the outer layer.\n\nThe roof weighs 6000 tonnes and is able to support suspended aircraft weighing up to 10 tonnes. A glass wall, demountable to permit aircraft to be rearranged, allows in daylight, thereby reducing lighting costs and enabling the aircraft to be seen from outside the building. It also allows visitors inside the museum to watch aircraft landing or taking off. From a visitor's perspective, the pedestrian entrance leads to a mezzanine floor level with the cockpit of the museum's B-52, while the lack of supporting columns allows aircraft to hang from the ceiling. Heavier aircraft stand on the floor of the building, which covers . Construction began with the building of abutments in October 1995 and the roof was completed in September 1996. The building won the 1998 Stirling Prize for Foster and Partners and was described by the judges as \"a great big, clear span hangar of a building...dramatic, awe-inspiring, an object of beauty...simple yet replete with imagery.\"\n\nThe American Air Museum was opened by Queen Elizabeth II on 1 August 1997. The total cost of the project had been £13.5 million. The museum was re-dedicated on 27 September 2002, in a ceremony attended by former President George H. W. Bush and by Prince Charles. Since being opened, the museum has had its glass front removed, and then reinstalled, to allow the bringing-in of an SR-71 Blackbird and Consolidated B-24 Liberator. The SR-71, serial number 61-7962, is the only example of its type on display outside the United States, and set a flight altitude record of 85,069 feet (25,929m) in July 1976. Besides the Blackbird, nineteen other American aircraft are on display. Notable examples include a C-47 Skytrain which flew with the 316th Troop Carrier Group and participated in three major Second World War airborne operations; the June 1944 Normandy landings, Operation Market Garden and Operation Varsity, the airborne crossing of the River Rhine in March 1945. The museum's B-29 flew during the Korean War as part of the 7th Bomb Wing; it is the only example in Europe and one of only two preserved in museums outside the United States. The B-52 flew 200 sorties during the Vietnam War as part of the 28th Bomb Wing. The General Dynamics F-111 on display flew 19 missions during the 1991 Gulf War as part of the 77th Fighter Squadron.\n\nOn 17 January 2014 the museum announced an award of £980,000 from the Heritage Lottery Fund. The museum planned to use the money to build a website based on the photographic collection of aviation historian Roger Freeman, to update the museum's interpretation, and to conserve aircraft and other exhibits. The museum launched americanairmuseum.com in October 2014. The website seeks to crowdsource photographs and information from the public about the men and women of the US Army Air Forces who served from the UK in the Second World War, and the British people who befriended them.\n\nThe Land Warfare Hall was opened on 28 September 1992 by Field Marshal Lord Bramall. The building provides accommodation for the Imperial War Museum's collection of armoured vehicles, artillery and military vehicles. Also included are vehicles belonging to the Duxford Aviation Society Military Vehicle Section. The hall comprises a viewing balcony that runs for most of the length of the hall, providing views over a range of tableaux of vehicles, tanks and artillery that run chronologically from the First World War to the present day. Notable among the First World War exhibits is a battle-damaged artillery limber used by L Battery Royal Horse Artillery during an action at Néry in September 1914 where three Victoria Crosses were won. The Second World War in particular is illustrated with tableaux of the North African Campaign, the Eastern Front and the invasion of Normandy. Outside the building is a Whale floating roadway bridge span from Mulberry B harbour at Arromanches.\n\nSignificant vehicles in the collection include three command vehicles used by Field Marshal Bernard Law Montgomery, commander of 21st Army Group during the north-west Europe campaign. Also on display are extracts from Montgomery's personal papers, which are held by the Imperial War Museum's Department of Documents. Other tableaux depict scenes from post-1945 conflicts such as the Korean War, the Northern Ireland Troubles, the Falklands War, British peacekeeping contributions in Bosnia and the Gulf War. As many of the vehicles in the Land Warfare Hall are maintained in running condition, the site features garages and a running area behind the building.\n\nThe Land Warfare Hall also houses the Forgotten War exhibition, which opened on 25 March 1999 and was a joint project between the Imperial War Museum and the Burma Star Association. The Association represents veterans of the Burma campaign who often consider themselves to have fought in a \"Forgotten Army\" compared to those who fought in Europe. The exhibition explores aspects of the Second World War in the Far East and features artefacts, archival film and photographs, and tableaux depicting scenes such as troops moving through jungle and a Burmese village. The exhibition was supported financially by the Burma Star Association and by £126,000 from the National Heritage Memorial Fund.\n\nThe Land Warfare Hall also accommodates the Royal Anglian Regiment Museum. The Royal Anglian Regiment was formed in 1964 by the amalgamation of the three regiments of the East Anglian Brigade and the Royal Leicestershire Regiment. The museum was opened in June 1996 by noted war correspondent Martin Bell, who had previously served as a sergeant in the Suffolk Regiment while a national serviceman. The museum covers the history of the Regiment and its predecessors, which date back to the seventeenth century, up to recent operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and Sierra Leone. Alongside the museum is the Cambridgeshire Regiment Exhibition, which displays items from the Cambridgeshire Regiment collection. Exhibits include the Singapore Drums, lost at the fall of Singapore in 1942 and recovered after the war.\n\nOn 12 September 2010 a Royal Anglian Regiment memorial was dedicated at Duxford. A fundraising campaign, which raised more than £340,000, was launched following the deaths in action of nine soldiers of 1st Battalion Royal Anglian Regiment during the unit's 2007 operational tour in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. The memorial is inscribed with the names of 78 soldiers killed since 1958 (when the first of the three East Anglian regiments was formed) in conflicts including Afghanistan, Iraq, Northern Ireland and Aden. The dedication was attended by more than 5000 people.\n\nIn addition to the exhibition buildings, Duxford's 'North Side', the area of the site north of the A505 road, provides storage for the Imperial War Museum's collecting departments. The stored collections include the film collection, with potentially hazardous nitrate film kept in purpose-built vaults at nearby Ickleton. Other collections stored at Duxford's north side include books, maps, ephemera, photographs, documents and collections of uniforms and equipment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7424505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7424505", "title": "Iometer", "text": "Iometer\n\nIometer is an I/O subsystem measurement and characterization tool for single and clustered systems. It is used as a benchmark and troubleshooting tool and is easily configured to replicate the behaviour of many popular applications. One commonly quoted measurement provided by the tool is IOPS.\nCreated by Intel Corporation (Sean Hefty, David Levine and Fab Tillier are listed by the Iometer About dialog as the developers), the tool was officially announced at the Intel Developer Forum (IDF) on 17 February 1998. In 2001 Intel discontinued development and subsequently handed the sources to the Open Source Development Lab for release under the Intel Open Source License. On 15 November 2001 the Iometer project was registered at SourceForge.net and an initial version was made available. Experiencing no further development, the project was relaunched by Daniel Scheibli in February 2003. Since then it has been driven by an international group of individuals who have been improving and porting the product to additional platforms.\n\nIometer is based on a client–server model, where one instance of the Iometer graphical user interface is managing one or more 'managers' (each one representing a separate Dynamo.exe process) which are doing the I/O with one or more worker threads. Iometer performs Asynchronous I/O - accessing files or block devices (later one allowing to bypass the file system buffers).\n\nIometer allows the configuration of disk parameters such as the 'Maximum Disk Size', 'Starting Disk Sector' and '# of Outstanding I/Os'. This allows a user to configure a test file upon which the 'Access Specifications' configure the I/O types to the file.\nConfigurable items within the Access Specifications are:\nIn conjunction with the Access Specifications, Iometer allows the specifications to be cycled with incrementing outstanding I/O's, either exponentially or linearly. The tool outputs 50 parameters into a .CSV file, allowing multiple applications to analyse and generate graphs and reports on the measured performance.\n\n"}
{"id": "11626076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11626076", "title": "Judy Grable", "text": "Judy Grable\n\nNellya Baughman (August 21, 1935 – May 11, 2008) was an American professional wrestler who was best known by her ring name Judy Grable. She was an active wrestler during the 1950s and 1960s. In addition to her nickname \"The Barefoot Contessa\" due to her preference for wrestling barefoot, she was also known as \"the acrobatic blonde with the educated flying feet.\"\n\nGrable trained for her professional wrestling career with The Fabulous Moolah in her training school in Columbia, South Carolina. She debuted in 1953 using the name Peaches Grable. Moolah's female trainees worked in Boston under promoter Paul Bowser, and in Boston, Grable and Moolah were involved in a feud.\n\nShe wrestled in the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) territories through the 1950s and the 1960s. In September 1956, a battle royal was held to determine the new NWA World Women's Champion, but lost to long-time rival The Fabulous Moolah. On September 20, 1958 Grable made an appearance as a contestant on the popular television show \"What's My Line?\". The episode became famous in part because of the highly risque banter from guest panelist Groucho Marx and consequent malapropisms by regular panelist Dorothy Kilgallen and host John Daly.\n\nEven though she retired in the late 1960s, Grable's last in-ring work occurred in Superstar Wrestling in 1974.\n\nOn March 31, 2017, Grable was posthumously inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame as a part of the Legacy wing.\n\nGrable was the youngest of six children, including four brothers and one sister. She was a tomboy who liked fishing, hunting, and sports. She also wrestled at Grand Junction High School. Her family later moved to Florida, where Grable became interested in the circus. She was employed at Ringling Brothers Circus as an acrobat for six months, deciding she would rather wrestle after falling off a high wire.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Grable retired from wrestling after marrying a serviceman. Grable returned to school, graduating in 1978. She was then employed as a nurse's assistant in a home for veterans. One of her daughters works as a wrestler under the name Debbie Grable.\n\nGrable died on May 11, 2008 after living with diabetes, strokes, and Alzheimer's.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58657657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58657657", "title": "Letters I Haven't Written", "text": "Letters I Haven't Written\n\nLetters I Haven't Written, the seventh album by British singer-songwriter Gwyneth Herbert, was released on 12 October 2018. It was produced at Rockfield Studios, Monmouth and, like Herbert's previous album, \"The Sea Cabinet\", was crowdfunded. The album consists of original songs by Herbert on the subjects of \"love, gratitude and protest\" about the lost art of letterwriting. Reviewing the album for \"Jazzwise\" magazine, Peter Quinn said that \"Letters I Haven’t Written is by turns moving, thrilling and entrancing\".\n\n\nHerbert wrote \"Not the Kind of Girl\" for a screening, in 2010, of Marion Davies’ 1928 silent comedy classic \"The Patsy\", at BFI Southbank's Birds Eye View Film Festival. Ian Shaw covered the song on his 2017 album \"Shine Sister Shine\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1263429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1263429", "title": "List of NATO country codes", "text": "List of NATO country codes\n\nThis is the list of NATO country codes. Up to and including the seventh edition of STANAG 1059, these were two-letter codes (digrams). The eighth edition, promulgated February 19, 2004, and effective April 1, 2004, replaced all codes with new ones based on the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes. Additional codes cover gaps in the ISO coverage, deal with the imaginary countries used for exercise purposes, and designate large geographical groupings and water bodies (ranging from oceans to rivers). It consists of two-letter codes for geographical entities, four-letter codes for subdivisions, and lists the ISO three-letter codes for reference. The digrams match the FIPS 10-4 codes with a few exceptions.\n\nThe ninth edition's ratification draft was published on July 6, 2005, with a reply deadline of October 6, 2005. It replaces all two- and four-letter codes with ISO or ISO-like three- and six-letter codes. It is intended as a transitional standard: once all NATO nations have updated their information systems, a tenth edition will be published.\n\nFor diplomatic reasons, Macedonia is designated as the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and receives a (temporary) code explicitly different from the ISO one.\n\nThe Republic of Palau is also often indicated (at least in the United States) as PW.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41554660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41554660", "title": "List of professional sports leagues by revenue", "text": "List of professional sports leagues by revenue\n\nThe following is a list of sports competitions by revenue.\n\nIn this table, the \"Season\" column refers to the league season for which financial data is available and referenced, which is usually not the most recently completed season of competition. Revenues are listed in millions of euros.\n\n"}
{"id": "6768365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6768365", "title": "Moll Dyer", "text": "Moll Dyer\n\nMoll Dyer (died c. 1697?) is the name of a legendary 17th-century resident of Leonardtown, Maryland, who was said to have been accused of witchcraft and chased out of her home by the local townsfolk on a winter night. Her body was found a few days later, partially frozen to a large stone.\n\nStories say her spirit haunts the land, looking for the men who forced her from her home. The land near her cabin is said to be cursed, never again growing good crops, and an unusual number of lightning strikes have been recorded there. A white dog is mentioned as causing accidents on Moll Dyer road.\n\nOne interviewer reported that while hunting along Moll Dyer's Run around 1970 he saw a \"very dense fog patch, cylindrical in shape, with the light emanating about eight inches down from the top... It crossed the stream and went east ... moving across the wind instead of with the wind ... then turned and went south... But what made it really strange was that it did it twice! ... I'm not saying that it was the spirit of Moll Dyer. I just don't know what it was.\"\n\nThe story has survived for generations, though no historical record has been found of Moll Dyer's existence. Records from the colonial period are often incomplete and the county courthouse burned in 1831 so early documents were lost. Historical evidence includes:\n\nThe \"Washington Times\" has called her \"perhaps Maryland's best-known bit of witch lore\". Local newspapers occasionally reprint the story.\n\nAccording to legend, Moll Dyer rested on a large stone before she died, leaving indentations (either hands or knees or both) behind. In 1972, an 875-pound boulder was moved from a wooded ravine near Moll Dyer Road to the Leonardtown courthouse lawn in front of the old 1876 jailhouse, which now serves as the St. Mary's County Historical Society building. The rock remains there to this day.\nLocal legend has it that the rock itself is cursed, and that people who go near it will experience dizziness eventually leading to fainting.\n\nThe Weather Channel aired an episode about Moll Dyer in their series \"American Supernatural\" on 5 October 2014.\n\n\"Sister Witch, The Life of Moll Dyer\" was written by local novelist David W. Thompson and published by Solstice Publishing on October 31, 2017. Inspired by Moll Dyer's life, it pulls together the historical record and local oral traditions surrounding her legend.\n\nThe \"Legend of the Witch, Moll Dyer\" was choreographed by St. Mary's Ballet founder Jane Caputo and set to the music of Loreena McKennitt in 1999. The ballet was performed at St. Mary's Ryken High School and at the College of Southern Maryland's Leonardtown campus as part of the county's yearly Halloween celebration from 1999 to 2003 and again in 2006. The ballet recasts the legend in the mold of a morality tale of feminism and tolerance. \n\nThe song \"Fire and Snow\" (2007) by folk/rock duo Hobbyhorse of San Francisco is about Moll Dyer.\n\nMoll Dyer Road, 3.4 miles south of Leonardtown, is named after her, as is the creek, Moll Dyer's Run, which parallels the road then crosses Route 5, goes past Our Lady's Chapel on Medley's Neck Road, and eventually flows into Breton Bay.\n\nAs with all folktales, the story has been passed down through the generations and changes with the telling. In 1994 Thomas Jarboe conducted a series of interviews with ten local residents, including a member of the Dyer family, a local historian, and several people from families that have lived in the county since the 1600s. According to these interviews, Moll Dyer is said to have come from Ireland, Virginia, Kentucky, New England, or Connecticut. She is said to have been a widow, a woman disappointed in love, or the mother of two sons. She may have born a Dyer or married a man named Dyer. Two people said they had heard her name as \"Moldy Dyer\" and that she was a Native American maid abandoned by her white lover after the birth of their child. The date of her death varied from the mid-1600s to the late 1700s. Several people said they thought Moll Dyer was Catholic or that she had come to Maryland because it was more religiously tolerant than other colonies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42565465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42565465", "title": "Mook (publishing)", "text": "Mook (publishing)\n\nA mook is a publication which is physically similar to a magazine but is intended to remain on bookstore shelves for longer periods than traditional magazines.\n\nThe term is a portmanteau of \"magazine\" and \"book\". It was first used in 1971, at a convention of the Fédération Internationale de la Presse Périodique. The format has become particularly popular in Japan, where several fashion designers publish \"brand mooks\" to promote their products.\n\nAmerican examples of mooks include \"Make\" and \"Craft\".\n"}
{"id": "167796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167796", "title": "National Mall", "text": "National Mall\n\nThe National Mall is a landscaped park within the National Mall and Memorial Parks, an official unit of the United States National Park System. It is located near the downtown area of Washington, D.C., the capital city of the United States, and is administered by the National Park Service (NPS) of the United States Department of the Interior.\n\nThe term \"National Mall\" commonly includes areas that are also officially part of neighboring West Potomac Park and Constitution Gardens to the southwest. The term is often taken to refer to the entire area between the Lincoln Memorial on the west and east to the United States Capitol grounds, with the Washington Monument dividing the area slightly west of its midpoint. A smaller designation sometimes referred to as the \"National Mall (proper)\" excludes both the Capitol grounds and the Washington Monument grounds, applying only to an area between them.\n\nThe National Mall contains and borders a number of museums of the Smithsonian Institution, art galleries, cultural institutions, and various memorials, sculptures, and statues. The park receives approximately 24 million visitors each year.\n\nIn his 1791 plan for the future city of Washington, D.C., Pierre (Peter) Charles L'Enfant envisioned a garden-lined \"grand avenue\" approximately 1 mile (1.6 km) in length\nand wide, in an area that would lie between the Capitol building and an equestrian statue of George Washington to be placed directly south of the White House (see L'Enfant Plan). The National Mall (proper) occupies the site of this planned \"grand avenue\", which was never constructed. Mathew Carey's 1802 map is reported to be the first to name the area west of the United States Capitol as the \"Mall\". \nThe Washington City Canal, completed in 1815 in accordance with the L'Enfant Plan, travelled along the former course of Tiber Creek to the Potomac River along the present line of Constitution Avenue, NW (formerly B Street, NW) and south around the Capitol, thus defining the northern and eastern boundaries of the Mall. Being shallow and often obstructed by silt, the canal served only a limited role and became an open sewer. The portion of the canal that traveled near the Mall was covered over in 1871 for sanitary reasons.\n\nThe Smithsonian Institution Building (\"The Castle\"), constructed from 1847 to 1855, is the oldest building now present on the National Mall. The Washington Monument, whose construction began in 1848, stands near the planned site of its namesake's equestrian statue.\n\nDuring the early 1850s, architect and horticulturist Andrew Jackson Downing designed a landscape plan for the Mall. Over the next half century, federal agencies developed several naturalistic parks within the Mall in accordance with Downing's plan. Two such areas were Henry Park and Seaton Park.\n\nDuring that period, the Mall was subdivided into several areas along B Street NW:\n\nIn 1856, the Armory (No. 27 on the map above) was built at the intersection of B Street SW and 6th Street SW on the Armory Grounds. In 1862, during the American Civil War, the building was converted to a military hospital known as Armory Square Hospital to house Union Army casualties. After the war ended, the Armory building became the home of the United States Fish Commission.\n\nThe United States Congress established the United States Department of Agriculture in 1862 during the Civil War. Designed by Adolf Cluss and Joseph von Kammerhueber, the United States Department of Agriculture Building (No. 25 on the map), was constructed in 1867–1868 on a 35-acre site on the Mall. After the war ended, the Department started growing experimental crops and demonstration gardens on the Mall. These gardens extended from the Department's building on the south side of the Mall to B Street NW (the northern boundary of the Mall). The building was razed in 1930. In addition, greenhouses belonging to the U.S. Botanical Garden (No. 16 on the map) appeared near the east end of the Mall between the Washington City Canal and the Capitol (later between 1st and 3rd Streets).\n\nOriginating during the early 1800s as a collection of market stalls immediately north of the Washington City Canal and the Mall, the Center Market (No. 19 on the map), which Adolf Cluss also designed, opened in 1872 soon after the canal closed. Located on the north side of Constitution Avenue NW (formerly B Street NW), the National Archives now occupies the Market's site.\n\nDuring that period, railroad tracks crossed the Mall on 6th Street, west of the Capitol. Near the tracks, several structures were built over the years. The Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Station (B on the map) rose in 1873 on the north side of the Mall at the southwest corner of 6th Street and B Street NW (now the site of the west building of the National Gallery of Art).\n\nIn 1887, the Army Medical Museum and Library, which Adolph Class designed in 1885, opened on the Mall at northwest corner of B Street SW (now Independence Avenue SW) and 7th Street SW. The Smithsonian Institution's Hirshhorn Museum now occupies the site of the building, which was demolished in 1968.\n\nIn 1902, the McMillan Commission's plan, which was partially inspired by the City Beautiful Movement and which purportedly extended L'Enfant's plan, called for a radical redesign of the Mall that would replace its greenhouses, gardens, trees, and commercial/industrial facilities with an open space. The plan differed from L'Enfant's by replacing the wide \"grand avenue\" with a wide vista containing a long and broad expanse of grass. Four rows of American elm (Ulmus americana) trees planted fifty feet apart between two paths or streets would line each side of the vista. Buildings housing cultural and educational institutions constructed in the Beaux-Arts style would line each outer path or street, on the opposite side of the path or street from the elms.\n\nIn subsequent years, the vision of the McMillan plan was generally followed with the planting of American elms and the layout of four boulevards down the Mall, two on either side of a wide lawn. In accordance with a plan that it completed in 1976, the NPS converted the two innermost boulevards (Washington and Adams Drives) into gravel walking paths. The two outermost boulevards (Jefferson Drive Southwest (SW) and Madison Drive Northwest (NW)) remain paved and open to vehicular traffic.\n\nIn 1918 contractors for the United States Navy's Bureau of Yards and Docks constructed the \"Main Navy\" and \"Munitions\" Buildings along nearly a third of a mile of the south side of Constitution Avenue (then known as B Street), from 17th Street NW to 21st Street NW. Although the Navy intended the buildings to provide temporary quarters for the United States military during World War I, the reinforced concrete structures remained in place until 1970. Much of the buildings' area then became Constitution Gardens, which was dedicated in 1976.\n\nFrom the 1970s to 1994, a fiberglass model of a triceratops named \"Uncle Beazley\" stood on the Mall in front of the National Museum of Natural History. The life-size statue, which is now located at the National Zoological Park (the National Zoo) in Northwest Washington, D.C., was donated to the Smithsonian Institution by the Sinclair Oil Corporation. The statue, which Louis Paul Jonas created for Sinclair's DinoLand pavilion at the 1964 New York World's Fair, was named after a dinosaur in Oliver Butterworth's 1956 children's book, \"The Enormous Egg\", and the 1968 televised movie adaptation in which the statue appeared.\n\nIn 2003, the 108th United States Congress enacted the Commemorative Works Clarification and Revision Act. This Act prohibits the siting of new commemorative works and visitor centers in a designated reserve area within the cross-axis of the Mall.\n\nIn October 2013, a two-week federal government shutdown closed the National Mall and its museums and monuments. However, when a group of elderly veterans tried to enter the National World War II Memorial during the shutdown's first day, the memorial's barricades were removed. The NPS subsequently announced that the veterans had a legal right to be in the memorial and would not be barred in the future. During the shutdown's second week, the NPS permitted a controversial immigration rally and concert to take place on the Mall.\n\nOn October 15, 1966, the NPS listed the National Mall on the National Register of Historic Places. In 1981, the NPS prepared a National Register nomination form that documented the Mall's boundaries, features and historical significance.\n\nOn December 8, 2016, the NPS listed on the National Register of Historic Places an increase in the National Mall Historic District's boundary to encompass an area bounded by 3rd Street, NW/SW, Independence Avenue, SW, Raoul Wallenberg Place, SW, the CSX Railroad, the Potomac River, Constitution Ave., NW, 17th Street, NW, the White House Grounds and 15th Street, NW. The listing's registration form, which contained 232 pages, described and illustrated the history and features of the historic district's proposed expanded area.\n\n\nIn its 1981 National Register of Historic Places nomination form, the NPS defined the boundaries of the National Mall (proper) as Constitution and Pennsylvania Avenues on the north, 1st Street NW on the east, Independence and Maryland Avenues on the south, and 14th Street NW on the west, with the exception of the section of land bordered by Jefferson Drive on the north, Independence Avenue on the south, and by 12th and 14th Streets respectively on the east and west, which the U.S. Department of Agriculture administers and which contains the Jamie L. Whitten Building (U.S. Department of Agriculture Administration Building). A 2012-2016 NPS National Parks index describes the National Mall as being a landscaped park that extends from the Capitol to the Washington Monument, defined as a principal axis in the L'Enfant Plan for the city of Washington.\n\nHowever, a 2010 NPS plan for the Mall contains maps that show the Mall's general area to be larger. A document within the plan describes this area as \"the grounds of the U.S. Capitol west to the Potomac River, and from the Thomas Jefferson Memorial north to Constitution Avenue\". A map within the plan entitled \"National Mall Areas\" illustrates \"The Mall\" as being the green space bounded on the east by 3rd Street, on the west by 14th Street, on the north by Jefferson Drive, NW, and on the south by Madison Drive, SW. A Central Intelligence Agency map shows the Mall as occupying the space between the Lincoln Memorial and the United States Capitol.\n\nIn 2011, the 112th United States Congress enacted the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2012, which transferred to the Architect of the Capitol the NPS \"property which is bounded on the north by Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest, on the east by First Street Northwest and First Street Southwest, on the south by Maryland Avenue Southwest, and on the west by Third Street Southwest and Third Street Northwest\". This act removed Union Square (the area containing the Ulysses S. Grant Memorial and the Capitol Reflecting Pool) from NPS jurisdiction.\n\nThe National Park Service states that the purposes of the National Mall are to:\n\nNot marked on the above image:\n\nThe National Mall proper contains the following landmarks, museums and other features (including opening year):\n\nNot marked on the above image:\n\nWith the exception of the National Gallery of Art, all of the museums on the National Mall proper are part of the Smithsonian Institution. The Smithsonian Gardens maintains a number of gardens near its museums. These gardens include:\n\nThe broader area of the National Mall includes numerous other landmarks and features.\nFeatures east of the National Mall proper include:\n\nFeatures west of the National Mall proper include:\n\nThe population of American elm trees planted on the Mall and its surrounding areas in accordance with the McMillan Plan has remained intact for the past 70 years because of disease management and immediate tree replacement. Dutch elm disease (DED) first appeared on the Mall during the 1950s and reached a peak in the 1970s. The NPS has used a number of methods to control this fungal epidemic, including sanitation, pruning, injecting trees with fungicide, replanting with DED-resistant American elm cultivars and combatting the disease's local insect vector, the smaller European elm bark beetle (Scolytus multistriatus), by trapping and by spraying with insecticides. Soil compaction and root damage by crowds and construction projects also adversely affect the elms.\n\n\nOther attractions within walking distance of the National Mall (proper) include:\n\nAttractions east of the Capitol:\n\nAttractions northeast of the National Mall (proper):\nAttractions north of the National Mall (proper):\n\nAttractions northwest of the National Mall (proper):\n\nAttractions south of the National Mall (proper):\nAttractions southwest of the National Mall (proper):\n\nThe National Mall, in combination with the other attractions in the Washington Metropolitan Area, makes the nation's capital city one of the most popular tourist destinations in the country. It has several other uses in addition to serving as a tourist focal point.\n\nThe National Mall's status as a wide, open expanse at the heart of the capital makes it an attractive site for protests and rallies of all types. One notable example is the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, a political rally during the Civil Rights Movement, at which Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his speech \"I Have a Dream\".\n\nThe largest officially recorded rally was the Vietnam War Moratorium Rally on October 15, 1969. However, in 1995, the NPS issued a crowd estimate for the Million Man March with which an organizer of the event, Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan, disagreed. The next year, a committee of the 104th United States Congress provided no funds for NPS crowd-counting activities in Washington, D.C. when it prepared legislation making 1997 appropriations for the U.S. Department of the Interior.\n\nAs a result, the NPS has not provided any official crowd size estimates for Mall events since 1995. The absence of such an official estimate fueled a political controversy following the presidential inauguration of Donald Trump in 2017 (see: Inauguration of Donald Trump crowd size).\n\nOn April 25, 2004, the March for Women's Lives filled the Mall. On January 27, 2007, tens of thousands of protesters opposed to the Iraq War converged on the Mall (see: January 27, 2007 anti-war protest), drawing comparisons by participants to the Vietnam War protest.\n\nOn June 12, 2018, the National Hockey League's Washington Capitals staged a rally on the Mall after parading through the city to celebrate the franchise's first Stanley Cup championship victory. Tens of thousands of fans reportedly joined the beer-soaked event.\n\nDuring presidential inaugurations, people without official tickets gather at the National Mall. Normally, the Mall between 7th and 14th Streets NW is used as a staging ground for the parade. On December 4, 2008, the Presidential Inaugural Committee (see: United States presidential inauguration organizers) announced, \"for the first time, the entire length of the National Mall will be opened to the public so that more people than ever before will be able to witness the swearing-in of the President from a vantage point in sight of the Capitol.\" The Committee made this arrangement because of the massive attendance – projected to be as many as 2 million people – that it expected for the first inauguration of Barack Obama on January 20, 2009.\n\nDespite the arrangement, a throng of people seeking access to the event climbed and then removed temporary protective fences around the Smithsonian's Mary Livingston Ripley Garden, six blocks from the site at which Obama took his inaugural oath. Hordes then trampled the garden's vegetation and elevated plant beds when entering and leaving the event. Others could not find a way to enter the Mall in time to view the ceremony.\n\nMore than a thousand people with tickets missed the event while being stranded in the I-395 Third Street Tunnel beneath the Mall after police directed them there (see Purple Tunnel of Doom). The Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies subsequently announced that ticket holders that were not admitted would receive copies of the swearing-in invitation and program, photos of Obama and Vice President Joe Biden, and a color print of the ceremony.\n\nThe National Mall has long served as a spot for jogging, picnics, and light recreation for the Washington population. The Smithsonian Carousel, located on the Mall in front of the Arts and Industry Building, is a popular attraction that operates seasonally. The carousel was built by the Allan Herschell Company and arrived at Gwynn Oak Park near Baltimore, Maryland, in 1947. It was moved to the Mall in 1981.\n\nA number of large free events recur annually on the Mall. A kite festival, formerly named the \"Smithsonian Kite Festival\" and now named the \"Blossom Kite Festival\", usually takes place each year on the Washington Monument grounds during the last weekend of March as part of the National Cherry Blossom Festival. The 2018 kite festival took place on the Washington Monument grounds on Saturday, March 31.\n\nAn Earth Day celebration often takes place on the Mall around April 22. A week-long series of rallies, exhibits, observances and performances occurred on the Mall from April 17 to April 25, 2010 to commemorate Earth Day's 40th anniversary. The final day's events featured performances by Sting, Mavis Staples, The Roots, John Legend and others. The 2012 Earth Day rally, which featured music, entertainment, celebrity speakers and environmental activities, took place on the Mall during a rainy day on Sunday, April 22. Cheap Trick, Dave Mason, Kicking Daisies, Sting, John Legend, Joss Stone, The Roots, Mavis Staples, Jimmy Cliff, Bob Weir and The Explorers Club performed and Congressmen John Dingell and Edward Markey spoke. In 2013, an \"Earth Month\" at Washington's Union Station replaced the Mall's Earth Day event. On April 19, 2015, a \"Global Citizen\" Earth Day concert featured performances on the Washington Monument grounds by Usher, My Morning Jacket, Mary J. Blige, Train and No Doubt.\n\nThe National Symphony Orchestra presents each year its \"National Memorial Day Concert\" on the west lawn of the United States Capitol during the evening of the Sunday before Memorial Day (the last Monday of May). The National Gallery of Art hosts a \"Jazz in the Garden\" series each year in the museum's Sculpture Garden on Friday evenings from late May through August.\n\nComponents of the United States Navy Band, the United States Air Force Band, the United States Marine Band and the United States Army Band perform on the west steps of the United States Capitol on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday evenings, respectively, during June, July and August. The Marine Band repeats each Wednesday Capitol performance on the following evening (Thursday) at the Sylvan Theater on the grounds of the Washington Monument. Components of U.S. military bands also provide evening concerts at the World War II Memorial from May through August.\n\nThe Smithsonian Folklife Festival takes place on the Mall each year for two weeks around Independence Day (July 4). On that holiday, the \"A Capitol Fourth\" concert takes place in the late afternoon and early evening on the west lawn of the Capitol. This and other Independence Day celebrations on and near the Mall end after sunset with a fireworks display between the Washington Monument and the Lincoln Memorial.\n\nThe National Symphony Orchestra presents each year its \"Labor Day Capitol Concert\" on the west lawn of the United States Capitol during the evening of the Sunday before Labor Day (the first Monday of September).\n\nOn April 9, 1939, singer Marian Anderson gave an Easter Sunday concert at the Lincoln Memorial after the Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) denied a request by Howard University for her to give an Easter performance at the DAR's nearby racially segregated Constitution Hall (see: Marian Anderson's 1939 Lincoln Memorial concert). The event, which 75,000 people attended, occurred after President Franklin D. Roosevelt gave his assent for the performance.\n\nThe 1976 United States Bicentennial celebration provided the motivation for planning to accommodate large numbers of expected visitors to the National Mall. A number of major memorials were added to the Mall throughout that period. On May 21, 1976, Constitution Gardens was dedicated. On July 1, the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum opened. On July 4, the Bicentennial fireworks display on the Mall attracted one million viewers, making it second only to the 1965 presidential inauguration of Lyndon B. Johnson as the largest event in the Mall's history up to that time.\n\nOn Sunday, October 9, 1979, Pope John Paul II celebrated Mass on the National Mall during a visit to Washington. The celebration took place after an appellate court denied a motion for an injunction that atheists Madalyn Murray O'Hair and Jon Garth Murray had filed to prevent the event from occurring.\n\nFrom 1980 through 1982, The Beach Boys and The Grass Roots performed Independence Day concerts on the Mall, attracting large crowds. However, in April 1983, James G. Watt, President Ronald Reagan's Secretary of the Interior, banned Independence Day concerts on the Mall by such groups. Watt said that \"rock bands\" that had performed on the Mall on Independence Day in 1981 and 1982 had encouraged drug use and alcoholism and had attracted \"the wrong element\", who would mug individuals and families attending any similar events in the future. Watt then announced that Las Vegas crooner Wayne Newton, a friend and supporter of President Reagan and a contributor to Republican Party political campaigns, would perform at the Mall's 1983 Independence Day celebration.\n\nDuring the ensuing uproar, Rob Grill, lead singer of The Grass Roots, stated that he felt \"highly insulted\" by Watt's remarks, which he called \"nothing but un-American\". The Beach Boys stated that the Soviet Union, which had invited them to perform in Leningrad in 1978, \"obviously ... did not feel that the group attracted the wrong element\". Vice President George H. W. Bush said of The Beach Boys, \"They're my friends and I like their music\". On July 3, 1983, thousands attended a heavily policed \"Rock Against Reagan\" concert that the hardcore punk rock band, Dead Kennedys, performed on the Mall in response to Watt's action. When Newton entered an Independence Day stage on the Mall on July 4, members of his audience booed. Watt apologized to The Beach Boys, First Lady Nancy Reagan apologized for Watt, and in 1984 The Beach Boys gave an Independence Day concert on the Mall to an audience of 750,000 people.\nOn September 4, 2003, Britney Spears, Mary J. Blige, Aretha Franklin, Aerosmith and others performed in a nationally televised \"NFL Kickoff Live from the National Mall Presented by Pepsi Vanilla\" (see: Pre-game concerts for National Football League kickoff game). Preceded by a three-day National Football League \"interactive Super Bowl theme park\", the event had primarily commercial purposes, unlike earlier major activities on the Mall. Three weeks later, the United States Senate overwhelmingly passed legislation that, when enacted into law, limited displays of commercial sponsorship on the Mall.\n\nOn July 7, 2007, one leg of Live Earth was held outdoors at the National Museum of the American Indian on the Mall. Former Vice President Al Gore presented, and artists such as Garth Brooks and Trisha Yearwood performed.\n\nOccurring once every two to three years on the Mall in the early fall from 2002 to 2009, the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon displayed solar-powered houses that competitive collegiate teams designed, constructed and operated. Igniting a controversy, the Department of Energy (DOE) decided to move the 2011 Decathlon off the Mall, claiming that this would support an effort to protect, improve and restore the park. Federal officials stated that heavy equipment that had placed two-story houses on the Mall during earlier Decathlons had cracked walkways and killed grass to a greater extent than had most other Mall events. On February 4, 2011, a Washington Post editorial criticized attempts to have President Obama restore the event to the Mall. Nevertheless, by February 12, 2011, at least thirteen U.S. Senators had signed a letter asking the DOE to reconsider its decision. On February 23, 2011, the DOE and the Department of the Interior announced that the 2011 Solar Decathlon would take place along Ohio Drive southeast of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial in West Potomac Park. The event took place in the Park from September 23 through October 2, 2011. The 2013 Solar Decathlon took place in California instead of Washington.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2013, the National Book Festival took place on the Mall each year in late September or early October. However, the event moved to the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in 2014 because the NPS became concerned about the damage that pedestrians had inflicted on the Mall's lawn during previous Festivals.\n\nA four-day exhibition took place each year on the Mall during Public Service Recognition Week (the first full week of May) until 2010. Government agencies participating in the event sponsored exhibits that displayed the works of public employees and that enabled visitors to learn about government programs and initiatives, discuss employee benefits, and interact with agency representatives. However, the 2011 United States federal budget (), which was belatedly enacted on April 15, 2011, contained no funding for that year's event, forcing the event's cancellation. The event did not take place in 2012.\n\nOn June 12, 2010, Tareq and Michaele Salahi, a couple under investigation for allegedly crashing a White House state dinner for the Prime Minister of India in November 2009 (see: 2009 U.S. state dinner security breaches), hosted an America's Polo Cup match between the United States and India on the Mall. The advertised ticket price for this event was $95 per person. Reports of the event stated that the players who represented India were actually of Pakistani origin and were from Florida. A spokesman for the Embassy of India stated that neither the Embassy nor the government of India had any association with the event. The event's website reportedly identified an Indian company, Kingfisher Beer, as a sponsor. However, Kingfishers' chief executive denied that the company had sponsored the event. Yashpal Singh, the president and chief executive of Mendocino Brewing Company, Kingfisher's parent company, stated, \"We are not sponsoring this event and have informed the people managing this event of that, ... We have sent legal notices to this effect, and he keeps on advertising us as a sponsor. I don't know what world he's living in.\"\n\nThe inaugural USA Science and Engineering Festival Expo took place on the National Mall and surrounding areas on October 23 and 24, 2010. More than 1,500 free interactive exhibits reportedly drew about 500,000 people to the event, which had over 75 performances. The second Expo took place on April 28–29, 2012, in the Walter E. Washington Convention Center.\nOn Veterans Day, November 11, 2014, Bruce Springsteen, Eminem, Rihanna, Metallica, Carrie Underwood, Dave Grohl, the Zac Brown Band and other pop entertainers performed on the Mall during a free evening Concert for Valor honoring veterans and their families. Attendance was in the hundreds of thousands, making it one of the biggest events on the Mall for the year.\n\nThe annual Screen on the Green movie festival took place on the Mall on Monday nights during July and August for 17 years until 2015. Free classic movies were projected on large portable screens and typically drew crowds of thousands of people. Organizers cancelled the event in 2016 when the event's sponsors (HBO and Comcast) terminated their support, stating that they needed their resources for other projects.\n\nFrom 2006 through 2010, the NPS conducted a public process that created a plan for the future of the National Mall. On July 13, 2010, the NPS issued in the Federal Register a notice of availability of a final environmental impact statement (EIS) for the National Mall Plan. The two-volume final EIS responded to comments and incorporated changes to a draft EIS for the Plan. On November 9, 2010, the NPS and the Department of the Interior issued a Record of Decision (ROD) that completed the planning process. The ROD contains a summary of the selected alternative, which is the basis for the Plan, together with mitigation measures developed to minimize environmental harm; other alternatives considered; the basis for the decision in terms of planning objectives and the criteria used to develop the preferred alternative; a finding of no impairment of park resources and values; the environmentally preferable alternative; and the public and agency involvement.\n\nThe Plan proposed a number of changes to the Mall. The NPS would construct at the east end of the Mall a wide expanse of paved surface in Union Square to accommodate demonstrations and other events by reducing the size of the Capitol Reflecting Pool or by replacing the pool with a fountain or other small water feature. Additional proposed changes included the replacement of the Sylvan Theater on the Washington Monument grounds with a facility containing offices, restaurants and restrooms.\n\nOn December 2, 2010, the National Capital Planning Commission (NCPC) unanimously approved the final National Mall Plan at a public hearing. The NCPC's approval allowed the NPS to move forward with implementation of the Plan's recommendations. On March 1, 2012, the NCPC discussed a proposal that would decrease the Mall's existing green space by widening and paving most of the north-south walkways that cross the Mall between Seventh and Fourteenth Streets and by replacing with gravel large areas of grass that are located near the Smithsonian Metro Station and the National Gallery of Art's Sculpture Garden.\n\nOn September 8, 2011, the Trust for the National Mall and the NPS announced an open competition for a redesign of the spaces on the National Mall that Union Square, the Sylvan Theater grounds and the Constitution Gardens lake now occupy. Former First Lady of the United States Laura Bush agreed to be the honorary co-chair of a drive to raise funds for the three projects.\n\nOn April 9, 2012, the Trust for the National Mall announced the ideas for the redesign of Union Square, the Sylvan Theater grounds and Constitution Gardens lake area that finalists in the competition had submitted. The Trust asked the public to submit online comments that the competition jury would consider when evaluating each design. The Trust announced the winners of the competition on May 2, 2012. Groundbreaking for the first project was expected to take place by 2014, with the first ribbon-cutting ceremony by 2016.\n\nOn October 1, 2015, the NCPC approved preliminary and final site and building plans that the NPS had submitted for the first phase rehabilitation of Constitution Gardens. Plans include the relocation and rehabilitation of the Lockkeeper's House, C & O Canal Extension, a new entry plaza at the corner of Constitution Avenue and 17th Street, NW, landscaping, a meadow and pollinator habitat and a new perimeter garden wall. A temporary path will connect to an existing plaza located at the eastern end of Constitution Garden's lake.\n\nFrom 2010 to 2012, NPS contractors rebuilt the aging Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool, which had first been constructed in the early 1920s and whose water had come from the pipes that supply Washington, D.C., with its drinking water. As a result of the project, the pool now receives filtered water from the Tidal Basin through a high-density polyethylene (HDPE) pipeline.\n\nThe NPS then began a four-year restoration of the portion of the central axis of the Mall that lies between 3rd Street and 14th Street. By 2016, the restoration project had completely replaced the deteriorated and weedy turf that had previously covered much of that part of the Mall with a new cover containing soil, fescue (\"Festuca\") and Kentucky bluegrass (\"Poa pratensis\").\n\nThe National Mall is accessible via the Washington Metro, with the Smithsonian station located on the south side of the Mall, near the Smithsonian Institution Building between the Washington Monument and the United States Capitol. The Federal Triangle, Archives, and Union Station Metro stations are also located near the Mall, to the north. The L'Enfant Plaza, Federal Center Southwest and Capitol South Metro stations are located several blocks south of the Mall. Metrobus and the DC Circulator make scheduled stops near the Mall.\n\nThe NPS provides parking facilities for bicycles near each of the major memorials as well as along the National Mall. From March to October, an NPS concessionaire rents out bicycles at the Thompson Boat Center, located near the intersection of Virginia Avenue NW and Rock Creek and Potomac Parkway, north of the Lincoln Memorial along the Potomac River-Rock Creek Trail. The first two of five approved Capital Bikeshare stations opened on the National Mall on March 16, 2012, shortly before the start of the 2012 National Cherry Blossom Festival.\n\nThe National Mall is the official midpoint of the East Coast Greenway, a 2,900 mile–long system of shared-use bicycle trails linking Calais, Maine, with Key West, Florida.\n\nThe NPS licenses pedicab drivers to provide transportation and tours of the National Mall through its Commercial Use Authorization program.\n\nGeneral visitor parking is available along Ohio Drive SW, between the Lincoln and Thomas Jefferson Memorials. Bus parking is available primarily along Ohio Drive, SW, near the Lincoln and Thomas Jefferson Memorials and along Ohio Drive SW, in East Potomac Park. There is limited handicapped parking at the Franklin Delano Roosevelt and World War II Memorials and near the Washington Monument and the Thomas Jefferson, Lincoln, Korean War Veterans, and Vietnam Veterans Memorials; otherwise, parking is extremely scarce in and near the Mall.\n\nIn April 2017, the NPS awarded a contract for the installation of parking meters on streets and in parking areas on the Mall. On June 12, 2017, the NPS and the District of Columbia Department of Public Works began to enforce metered parking on approximately 1,100 parking spaces in which motorists could previously park without charge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35763174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35763174", "title": "Outline of the Bahá'í Faith", "text": "Outline of the Bahá'í Faith\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and a topical guide to the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nBahá'í Faith – monotheistic religion founded by Bahá'u'lláh in 19th-century Persia, emphasizing the spiritual unity of all humankind. In the Bahá'í Faith, religious history is seen to have unfolded through a series of divine messengers, each of whom established a religion that was suited to the needs of the time and the capacity of the people. Humanity is understood to be in a process of collective evolution, and the need of the present time is for the gradual establishment of peace, justice and unity on a global scale.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nChronologically there have been three individuals who are considered paramount in the religion, though not of equal station\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6790076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6790076", "title": "Piya", "text": "Piya\n\nThe Piya (; \"Increased [Er]ya\") was a Chinese dictionary compiled by Song Dynasty scholar Lu Dian (, 1042-1102). He wrote this \"Erya\" supplement along with his \"Erya Xinyi\" (爾雅新義 \"New Exegesis of the \"Erya\"\") commentary. Although the \"Piya\" preface written by his son Lu Zai (陸宰/陆宰) is dated 1125, the dictionary was written earlier; Liu (1963:87) estimates around the Yuanfeng era (元豐, 1078–1085), and Joseph Needham (1986: 192) says around 1096.\n\nLu Dian arranged the \"Piya\" into 8 semantically based chapters that closely correspond with the last \"Erya\" chapters 13-19. The only exceptions are Chapter 5 (\"Explaining Horses\") that is contained in \"Erya\" 19 (\"Explaining Domestic Animals\") and Chapter 8 (\"Explaining Heaven\") that anomalously corresponds with the first part of the \"Erya\".\nThe preface explains Lu's motives for defining flora and fauna terminology. Since Song officials changed the basis for the Imperial examination from mastering poetry to \"jingyi\" (經義/经义 \"expounding on a classical quotation\"), literati no longer studied the lyrical names for plants and animals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47754984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47754984", "title": "Proffer letter", "text": "Proffer letter\n\nIn U.S. criminal law, a proffer letter, proffer agreement, proffer, or \"Queen for a Day\" letter is a written agreement between a prosecutor and a defendant or prospective witness that allows the defendant or witness to give the prosecutor information about an alleged crime, while limiting the prosecutor's ability to use that information against him or her.\n"}
{"id": "43936426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43936426", "title": "Provost Developments Ltd v Collingwood Towers Ltd", "text": "Provost Developments Ltd v Collingwood Towers Ltd\n\nProvost Developments Ltd v Collingwood Towers Ltd [1980] 2 NZLR 205 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding \"subject to solicitor's approval\" clauses in conditional contracts.\n\nCollingwood entered into a sale agreement with Provost for several adjoining properties. The sale was conditional on \"subject to my solicitor's approval\". Due to receiving a better offer, the vendor's solicitor refused to give their approval, and based on this, the vendor claimed the contract had come to an end.\n\nProvost filed in court for specific performance for Collingwood to honour the sale agreement.\n\nThe Court said that the solicitor approval could only be withheld for legal issues, not for where a better offer was received. Richardson J stated \"..it seems to me that the role of solicitor under clause 19 was to be limited accordingly to consideration of what might be loosely but conveniently be termed the legal implications of the transaction, including in that description the form of the agreement, its validity, and the burden of the commitments entered into thereafter\".\n"}
{"id": "1272998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1272998", "title": "Rhyming dictionary", "text": "Rhyming dictionary\n\nA rhyming dictionary is a specialist dictionary designed for use in writing poetry and lyrics. In a rhyming dictionary, words are categorized into equivalence classes that consist of words that rhyme with one another. They also typically support several different kinds of rhymes and possibly also alliteration as well.\n\nBecause rhyming dictionaries are based on pronunciation, they are difficult to compile. Words and rhyming patterns change their pronunciation over time and between dialects. Rhyming dictionaries for Old English, Elizabethan poetry, or Standard English would have quite different content. Rhyming dictionaries are invaluable for historical linguistics; as they record pronunciation, they can be used to reconstruct pronunciation differences and similarities that are not necessarily reflected in spelling.\n\nA simple reverse dictionary, which collates words starting from the end, provides a rough rhyming dictionary to the extent that spelling follows pronunciation. However, a precise rhyming dictionary reflects pronunciation, not spelling.\n\nToday, there are many websites on the internet that provide the same function as rhyming dictionaries but online.\n\n"}
{"id": "48698580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48698580", "title": "Rita Keegan", "text": "Rita Keegan\n\nRita Keegan (born 1949) is an American-born artist, lecturer and archivist, based in England since the late 1970s. She is a multi-media artist whose work uses video and digital technologies. Keegan is best known for her involvement with in the UK's Black Arts Movement in the 1980s and her work documenting artists of colour in Britain.\n\nBorn Rita Morrison in the Bronx, New York City, to a Dominican mother and Canadian father, she described her upbringing in the Bronx as having \"more in common with an English/Commonwealth background\". She graduated from the High School of Art and Design focusing on illustration and costume design, then obtained a fine arts degree at the San Francisco Art Institute, where her teachers included the photographer Imogen Cunningham and the African-American artist Mary O'Neill. Keegan moved to London, England, in the late 1970s.\n\nKeegan originally trained as a painter but in the 1980s begin to incorporate lens-based media, using the photocopier and computer in both 2D and installation work. In 1984 she worked at \"Community Copyart\" in London. The GLC-funded organisation was an affordable resource centre for voluntary groups to create they own print material in addition to working with artists who wanted to use the photocopier as a form of printmaking.\n\nKeegan was a founding member of the artists' collectives Brixton Art Gallery in 1982, and later Women's Work and Black Women in View. She went on to co-curate \"Mirror Reflecting Darkly\", Brixton Art Gallery's first exhibition by the Black Women Artists collective. From 1985 Keegan was a staff member at the Women Artists Slide Library (WASL), where she established and managed the Women Artists of Colour Index. She was Director of the African and Asian Visual Arts Archive from 1992 to 1994.\n\nKeegan taught New Media and Digital Diversity at Goldsmiths, University of London, where she also helped establish the digital-media undergraduate course in the Historical and Cultural Studies department.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16925613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925613", "title": "Rotunda of the Winter Palace", "text": "Rotunda of the Winter Palace\n\nThe Rotunda of the Winter Palace in St Petersburg is a circular hall in the northwest wing of the palace created for Tsar Nicholas I by the architect Auguste de Montferrand.\nDesigned in a circular neoclassical temple style, it served as an anteroom, vestibule and link between the more public state rooms of the palace and the more intimate rooms used by the Imperial family. The room is domed and top lit by an oculus.\n\nThe Rotunda was one of the many rooms destroyed by the Winter Palace fire of 1837. It was rebuilt in near-original style, but with the addition of a gallery under the dome.\n\nToday, the Rotunda is an exhibition hall of the State Hermitage Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "274396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274396", "title": "Royal Mint", "text": "Royal Mint\n\nThe Royal Mint is a government-owned mint that produces coins for the United Kingdom. Operating under the name \"Royal Mint Ltd,\" the mint is a limited company that is wholly owned by Her Majesty's Treasury and is under an exclusive contract to supply all the nation's coinage. As well as minting circulating coins for use domestically and internationally, the mint also produces planchets, commemorative coins, various types of medals and precious metal bullion. The mint exports to an average of 60 countries a year, making up 70% of its total sales. Formed over 1,100 years ago, the mint was historically part of a series of mints that became centralised to produce coins for the Kingdom of England, all of Great Britain and eventually most of the British Empire. The original London mint from which the Royal Mint is the successor, was established in 886 AD and operated within the Tower of London for approximately 800 years before moving to what is now called Royal Mint Court where it remained until the 1960s. As Britain followed the rest of the world in decimalising its currency, the Mint moved from London to a new plant in Llantrisant, Wales where it has remained since.\n\nIn 2009 after recommendations for the mint to be privatised the Royal Mint ceased being an executive government agency and became a state-owned company wholly owned by HM Treasury. Since then the mint has expanded its business interests by reviving its bullion trade and developing a £9 million visitor centre.\n\nThe history of coins in Great Britain can be traced back to the second century BC when they were introduced by Celtic tribes from across the English Channel. The first record of coins being minted in Britain is attributed to Kentish tribes such as the Cantii who around 80–60 B.C. imitated those of Marseille through casting instead of hammering. After the Romans began their invasion of Britain in AD 43, they set up mints across the land, including in London which produced Roman coins for some 40 years before closing. A mint in London reopened briefly in 383 AD until closing swiftly as Roman rule in Britain came to an end. For the next 200 years no coins appear to have been minted in Britain until the emergence of English kingdoms in 650 AD when as many as 30 mints are recorded across Britain with one being established in London. Control of Britain's mints alternated as different tribes battled over territory. In 886 AD Alfred the Great recaptured London from the Danelaw and began issuing silver pennies bearing his portrait; this is regarded as the start of the continuous history of the Royal Mint.\n\nIn 1279, the country's numerous mints were unified under a single system whereby control was centralised to the mint within the Tower of London, mints outside of London were reduced with only a few local and episcopals continuing to operate. Pipe rolls detailing the financial records of the London mint show an expenditure of £729 17s 8½d and records of timber bought for workshops.\n\nIndividual roles at the mint were well established by 1464. The master-worker was charged with hiring engravers and the management of moneyers, while the mint warden was responsible for witnessing the delivery of dies. A specialist mint board was set up in 1472 to enact a 23 February indenture which vested the mint's responsibilities into three main roles; a warden, a master and a comptroller.\n\nIn the 16th century having suffering from the effects of the Black Death, mainland Europe was in the middle of an economic expansion, England however was suffering with financial difficulty brought on by excessive government spending. By the 1540s wars with France and Scotland led Henry VIII to enact The Great Debasement which saw the amount of precious metal in coin significantly reduced. In order to further gather control of the country's currency, monasteries were dissolved which effectively ended major coin production outside of London.\n\nIn 1603, the union of Scotland and England under King James VI led to a partial union of both countries' currencies, the pound Scots and the pound sterling. Due to Scotland heavily debasing its silver coins, a Scots mark was worth just 13.5d compared to an English mark which was worth 6s 8d. To bridge the difference between the values, unofficial supplementary token coins, often made from lead were made by unauthorised minters across the country. By 1612 there were 3,000 such unlicensed mints producing these tokens, none of whom paying anything towards the crown. \"The Royal Mint\", not wanting to divert manpower away from minting more profitable gold and silver, hired outside agent Lord Harington who under licence started issuing copper farthings in 1613. Private licenses to mint these coins were revoked in 1644 which led traders to resume minting their own supplementary tokens. In 1672 the Royal Mint finally took over the production of copper coinage.\n\nPrior to the outbreak of the English Civil War, England signed a treaty in 1630 with Spain which ensured a steady supply of silver bullion to the Tower mint. Additional branch mints to aid the one in London were set up including one at Aberystwyth Castle, in Wales. In 1642 parliament seized control of the Tower mint and after Charles I tried to arrest the Five Members he was forced to flee London, establishing at least 16 emergency mints across the British Isles in Colchester, Chester, Cork, Edinburgh, Dublin, Exeter, Salisbury, parts of Cornwall including Truro, Weymouth, Worcester, York, Carlisle, Newark, Pontefract and Scarborough (see also siege money).\n\nAfter raising the royal standard in Nottingham marking the beginning of the war, Charles called upon loyalist mining engineer Thomas Bushell, the owner of a mint and silver mine in Aberystwyth, to move his operations to the royalist-held Shrewsbury, possibly within in the grounds of Shrewsbury Castle. The mint there was however short-lived, operating for no more than three months before Charles ordered Bushell to relocate the mint to his headquarters in the royal capital of Oxford. The new Oxford mint was established on 15 December 1642 in New Inn Hall at Oxford University, the present site of St. Peter's College. There, silver plates and foreign coins were melted down and in some cases just hammered into shape to produce coins quickly. Bushell was appointed the mint's warden and master-worker, where he laboured alongside notable engravers Nicholas Briot, Thomas Rawlins and Nicholas Burghers, the later of whom being appointed Graver of Seals, Stamps and Medals in 1643. When Prince Rupert took control of Oxford that same year, Bushnell was ordered to move to Bristol Castle where he continued minting coins until it fell to parliamentary control on 11 September 1645, effectively ending Bushnell's involvement in the civil war mints.\n\nIn Southern England in November 1642 the king ordered royalist MP Richard Vyvyan to build one or more mints in Cornwall where he was instructed to mint coins from whatever bullion that could be obtained and deliver it to Ralph Hopton, a commander of royalist troops in the region. Vyvyan built a mint in Truro and became its Master until 1646 when it was captured by parliamentarians. In nearby Exeter which had been under control of Westminster since the beginning of the war, a mint was ordered to be set up after parliament debated the proposal on 8 December 1642. After approval was granted, a mint and moneyers were dispatched on 8 December 1642 to the town which was under constant threat of attack by loyalist troops. In September 1643 the town was captured by the Cornish Royalist Army led by Prince Maurice leading to Vyvyan moving his nearby mint in Truro to the now recaptured town. The exact location of the mint in Exeter is unknown, however maps from the time show a street named Old Mint Lane near Friernhay which was to be the site of a 1696 Recoinage mint. Much less is known about the mint's employees with only Richard Vyvyan and clerk Thomas Hawkes recorded.\n\nFollowing Charles I's execution in 1649, the newly formed Commonwealth of England established its own set of coins which for the first time used English rather than Latin and were plainly designed compared to those previously issued under the monarchy. The government invited French engineer Peter Blondeau who worked at the Paris mint to come to London in 1649 in hope of modernising the country's minting process. In France hammer stuck coins had been banned from the Paris Mint since 1639 and replaced with milled coinage. After arriving, it wasn't until 9 May 1651 that his testing began in Drury House, having first required permission from parliament. He initially produced milled silver pattern pieces of halfcrowns, shillings and sixpences however rival moneyers favouring hammer stuck coins continued using the old hammering method. In 1656 Lord Protector Oliver Cromwell ordered engraver Thomas Simon to cut a series of dies featuring his bust and for them to be minted using the new milled method. Few of Cromwell's coins entered circulation with Cromwell himself dying in 1658 and the Commonwealth collapsing two year later. Without Cromwell's backing of milled coinage, Peter Blondeau returned to France leaving England to continue minting hammer struck coins.\nIn 1662, after previous attempts to introduce milled coinage into Britain had failed, the restored monarch Charles II recalled Peter Blondeau to establish a permanent machine-made coinage. Despite the introduction of the newer, milled coins, like the old hammered coins they suffered heavily from counterfeiting and clipping. To combat this the text \"Decus et tutamen\" (An ornament and a safeguard) was added to some coin rims.\n\nFollowing the Glorious Revolution of 1688, which saw the ousting of James II from power, parliament took over control of the mint from the Crown which had up until then allowed the mint to act as an independent body producing coins on behalf of the government.\n\nUnder the patronage of Charles Montagu, 1st Earl of Halifax, Isaac Newton became the mint's warden in 1696. His role, intended to be a sinecure, was taken seriously by Newton, who went about trying to combat the country's growing problems with counterfeiting. By this time, forgeries accounted for 10% of the country's coinage, clipping was commonplace and the value of silver in coins had surpassed their face value. King William III initiated the Great Recoinage of 1696 whereby all coins were removed from circulation and enacted the Coin Act 1696 making it high treason to own or possess counterfeiting equipment. Satellite mints to aid in the re-coinage were established in Bristol, Chester, Exeter, Norwich, and York, with returned coins being valued by weight, not face value.\n\nThe Acts of Union 1707 united England and Scotland into one country, leading London to take over production of Scotland's currency and thus replacing Scotland's Pound Scots with the English Pound Sterling which caused the Edinburgh mint to eventually close on 4 August 1710. As Britain's empire continued to expand, so to was the need to supply its coinage. This along with the need for new mint machinery and cramped conditions within the Tower of London, led to plans for the mint to move to nearby East Smithfield.\n\nLocated opposite from the Tower of London on Tower Hill, the new purpose-built mint began construction in 1805 and was completed by 1809. However it was not until 1812 that the move became official, when keys from the old mint were ceremoniously delivered to the Constable of the Tower. Facing the front of the site stood the Johnson Smirke Building whose namesake comes from its designer James Johnson and builder Robert Smirke. This building was flanked on both sides by gatehouses behind which another building housed the mint's new machinery. A number of other smaller buildings were also erected which housed mint officers and staff members. The entire site was protected by a boundary wall which was patrolled by the Royal Mint's military guard.\n\nBy 1856, the mint was beginning to prove inefficient, suffering from irregularities in minted coins' fineness and weight. Instructed by Prime Minister Lord Palmerston, the Master of the Mint Thomas Graham was informed that unless the mint could raise its standards and become more economical it would be broken up and placed under management by contractors. Graham sought advice from German chemist August Wilhelm von Hofmann who in turn recommended his student George Frederick Ansell as being able to resolve the mint's issues. In a letter to the treasury dated 29 October 1856, Ansell was put forward as candidate and subsequently was awarded the role of temporary clerk on 12 November 1856 with a £120 a year salary.\n\nUpon taking office, Ansell discovered that the weighing of metals at the mint was extremely loose. At the mint it had been the custom to weigh silver to within 0.5 ounces and gold to a pennyweight (0.05 ounces), however these standards meant losses were being made from overvalued metals. In one such case Ansell delivered 7920.00 ounces of gold to the mint where it was weighed by an official at 7918.15 ounces, a difference of 1.85 ounces. Requesting a second weighing on more accurate scale, the bullion was certified to weigh 7919.98 ounces, far closer to the previous measurement which was off by 960 grains. To increase the accuracy of weights, more precise weighing equipment was ordered and specifications were revised to 0.10 ounce for silver and gold to 0.01oz. Between 1856 and 1866 the old scales were gradually removed and replaced with ones made by Messrs. De Grave, Short, and Fanner; winners of a 1862 International Exhibition prize award for work relating to balances.\n\nAnother observation Ansell made was the loss of gold during the manufacturing process. He found that 15-20 ounces could be recovered through the sweep, that is the leftover burnt rubbish from the minting process which was often left in open boxes for many months before being removed. Wanting to account for every particle, he hypothesised that because the Conservation of mass meant it was physically impossible for gold to just disappear he put down the lost weight to a combination of oil, dust and different types of foreign matter amongst the gold.\n\nIn 1859, the Royal Mint rejected a batch of gold that was found to be too brittle for the minting of gold sovereigns. Analysis revealed the presence of small amounts of antimony, arsenic and lead. With Ansell's background in chemistry, he persuaded the Royal Mint to allow him to experiment with the alloy and was ultimately able to produce 167,539 gold sovereigns. On a second occasion in 1868, it was again discovered that gold coins, this time totalling £500,000 worth, were being produced with inferior gold. Although the standard practise at the mint was for rejected coins (known as brockages) to be melted down, many entered general circulation and the mint was forced to return thousands of ounces of gold to the Bank of England. Although Ansell offered to re-melt the substandard coins, his offer was rejected causing a row between him and senior mint chiefs which ultimately led to him being removed from his position at the mint.\nAfter relocating to its new home on Tower Hill, the Mint came under increased scrutiny of how it dealt with unrefined gold that had entered the country. Initially the Master of the Mint was responsible for overseeing the practise since the position's inception in the 1300s, however the refinery process proved too costly and suffered from a lack of accountability from the master. A Royal Commission later set up in 1848 to address these issues gave recommendation for the refinery process to be outsourced to another external agency thereby removing the refining process from the mint's responsibilities. The opportunity to handle in Mint's refinery was taken up by Anthony de Rothschild, a descendant of the Rothschild family and heir to the multinational investment banking company N M Rothschild & Sons. Rothschild secured a lease from the government in January 1852, purchasing equipment and a premise adjacent to the Royal Mint on 19 Royal Mint Street under the name of \"Royal Mint Refinery\".\n\nAs Britain's influence as a world power expanded, with colonies being established abroad, a greater need for currency led to the Royal Mint opening satellite branches of itself overseas. In Australia, the local Legislative Council petitioned the UK government to establish a branch of the Royal Mint in Sydney (Sydney Mint) after prospector Edward Hargraves discovered gold in Ophir, New South Wales in 1851. The petitioned gain royal assent in 1853 and plans were made by the Deputy Master of the Royal Mint in London to open the Royal Mint's first overseas branch within the colony. The Royal Mint's Superintendent of Coining travelled to Australia to oversee its establishment on Macquarie Street within the southern wing of Sydney Hospital where it opened in 1854. Its success led to the opening of Melbourne Mint on 2 June 1872 which cost £368,350 and Perth Mint which opened on 20 June 1899. In 1926 after operating for 72 years, the Sydney Mint closed due to its inferior technology and capabilities being superseded by those in Melbourne and Perth. After Australia was federalised in 1901, Great Britain continued to own the mints to as late as 1 July 1970, when they became statutory authorities of the Government of Western Australia.\n\nIn Canada, which had been under British rule since 1763, British coins circulated alongside those of other nations until 1858 when London started producing coins for the newly established Canadian dollar. As Canada developed, in 1890 calls were made for a mint to be built in Ottawa to facilitate the country's gold mines. The new mint opened on 2 January 1908 by Lord Grey producing coins for circulation including Ottawa Mint sovereigns. In 1931 under the Statute of Westminster, the mint came under the control on the Government of Canada and subsequently renamed the Royal Canadian Mint.A fifth branch of the Royal Mint was established in Mumbai (Bombay), India on 21 December 1917 as part of a wartime effort. It struck sovereign from 15 Aug 1918 til 22 Apr 1919. before closing in May 1919. A sixth and final overseas mint was established in the Union of South Africa in Pretoria on 1 January 1923, producing £83,114,575 worth of sovereigns of its lifetime. As South Africa began cutting ties with Britain, the mint closed on 30 June 1941 only to be later reopened as the South African Mint.\n\nAlthough just six mints were officially controlled by London's Royal Mint, many more independent mints were set up to facilitate parts of the British Empire. In New Westminster, British Columbia the British Columbia gold rushes led to a mint being set up in 1862 under Governor James Douglas where it produced a few gold and silver coins before being shut down in 1862 to aid the city of Victoria in becoming the regions provincial capital. On 26 February 1864 an Order of Council requested for the founding of independent mint (Hong Kong Mint) in British Hong Kong to issue silver and bronze coins. This mint was short lived however due to its coins being heavy debasement causing significant losses. The site was sold to Jardine Matheson in 1868 and the mint machinery sold to the Japanese Mint in Osaka.\n\nNew Zealand's $1 and $2 coins are minted by the Royal Mint in the United Kingdom. The 10 cent, 20 cent and 50 cent coins are minted by the Royal Canadian Mint. Other mints the Bank has used over time include: the Royal Australian Mint, Norwegian Mint and the South African Mint Company. The F4 Coin mintings data has details about the number and value of coin mintages.\n\nIn 1914 as war broke out in Europe, Chancellor of the Exchequer David Lloyd George instructed for gold coins to be removed from circulation so as to help pay for the war effort. The government started to issue £1 and 10 shilling treasury notes as replacement paving the way for Britain leaving the gold standard in 1931.\n\nFrom 1928, the Irish Free State (later Republic of Ireland) issued its own coins. These were produced by the Royal Mint until Ireland established its own Currency Centre in Dublin in 1978.\n\nDuring World War II the Mint played an important role in ensuring that people were paid for their services with hard currency rather than banknotes. Under Operation Bernhard, the Nazis planned to collapse the British economy by flooding the country with forged notes leading the Bank of England to stop issuing banknotes of £10 and above. To meet these demands the Mint doubled its output so that by 1943 it was minting around 700 million coins a year despite being under constant threat of being bombed. The Deputy Master of the Mint John Craig recognised the dangers to the Mint, introduced a number of measures to ensure the Mint could continue to operate in the event of a disaster. Craig added emergency water supplies, reinforced the Mint's basement to act as an air-raid shelter and even accepted employment of women for the first time. For most of the war the mint managed to escape the destruction of the Blitz until December 1940 when three members of staff were killed in an air-raid. Around the same time an auxiliary mint was set up at Pinewood Studios which had been requisitioned for the war effort. Staff and machinery from Tower Hill were moved to the site in Buckinghamshire where it started production in June 1941 and operated for the duration of the war. Over the course of the war the Royal Mint was hit on several different occasions and at one point was put out of commission for three weeks. As technology changed with the introduction of electricity and demand continuing to grow, the process of rebuilding continued so that by the 1960s little of the original mint remained, apart from Smirke's 1809 building and its gatehouses at the front.\n\nOn 1 March 1966 the government announced its intention for the pound to be decimalised which would require a large-scale withdrawal and minting of millions of new coins, this, as well as commitments to overseas customers, meant the mint was to be faced with a heavy workload. Lack of space at the mint and with Decimal Day looming it became apparent that the mint needed to again relocate to a larger site. With a degree of urgency plans were made in April 1967 for a new site to be built outside of London, although over twenty sites were considered the small Welsh town of Llantrisant located north-west of Cardiff was chosen Up until now improvements at the Tower Hill mint had cost £800,000.\n\nWork on the new mint began in August 1967 with the construction of a blank treatment plant and plant for striking. This first phase of the mint was officially opened on 17 December 1968 by the royal attendance of Queen Elizabeth II, Prince Philip and their son Prince Charles. Originally there were fears that the Royal family would face protests because of the Investiture of Prince Charles as the Prince of Wales; however, such protests failed to materialise. The second phase of construction began in 1973 and included the addition of a means to mint coins from virgin metals completing the full minting process. Upon completion the final cost for the land, buildings and plant came to £8 million. Coin minting and production gradually shifted to the new site over the next seven years until the last coin, a gold sovereign, was struck in London in November 1975. In an attempt to consolidate all previous coin-related acts, the \"Coinage Act of 1971\" was passed, which among other things effectively abolished the individual role of Master of the Mint. Under this act, the Chancellor of the Exchequer took over the role, with a Deputy Master being appointed by the Treasury to exercise all the powers and duties of the Master within the mint.\n\nAfter moving to Wales, the mint struggled to become profitable as the Western world fell into a deep recession during the early 1970s. To combat a rising national debt, the mint was established as a trading fund on 1 April 1975 which required it to become self-financing. This measure proved successful and the mint started to become profitable through heavy exports.To allow for more financial freedom and better management the mint became an Executive Agency in April 1990.\n\nDuring the 2008 global financial crisis, a rescue package costing £500 billion was announced to help stabilise Britain's banking system. This led to fear that the government would attempt to finance the cost by selling off state-owned organisations. In a 2009 pre-budget report the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Alistair Darling stated that the treasury would \"explore the potential benefits of alternative future models for the Royal Mint\". A month later in his 2009 United Kingdom budget he recommended that the mint be made a company with a view of it being sold. The decision was met with outrage by unions and opposition parties in parliament who called it the \"selling off the family silver\" and that it would result in jobs losses. In contrast, the chief executive of the mint Andrew Stafford welcomed the decision stating that it would lead to further growth and secure the future of the business. On 31 December 2009, rather than being fully privatised, the mint ceased to be an executive agency and its assets vested in a limited company, \"Royal Mint Ltd\". The owner of the new company became The Royal Mint trading fund, which itself continued to be owned by HM Treasury. As its sole shareholder the mint pays an annual dividend of £4 million to treasury with the remaining profits being reinvested into the mint. In 2015 Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne announced a £20 billion privatisation drive to raise funds with the \"Royal Mint\" being up for sale alongside other institutions including the Met Office and Companies House.\n\nWith its new found financial freedom the Mint begun diversifying their product range through expanding to offer items outside their usual coin-related merchandise. By the early 2000s the Mint was selling different types of jewellery, commemorative plates and figurines, eventually creating its own \"Royal Mint Classics\" range of collectable goods. This part of the business proved popular in attracting new customers however suffered from poor product development. Example of its products included a hip flask with an embedded £2 coin, an Edinburgh Crystal clock combined with a millennium Crown, and a Wedgwood plate featuring Britannia. In 2007 the Mint decided to resume its focus on coins, downsizing non-coin related business and discontinuing its Classics range.\n\nAfter London was selected to host the 2012 Summer Olympic Games, the Royal Mint successfully won its bid to manufacture the games' Olympic and Paralympic medals. 4,700 gold, sliver and bronze medals were produced by the Mint with each medal being struck 15 times with 900 tonnes of force.\n\nIn addition to securing the medal product contract, the mint held a competition to design a series of commemorative fifty pence coins that would enter general circulation prior to the event. The Mint received over 30,000 entries with a further 17,000 from a children's competition on Blue Peter. In all, a total of 29 designs featuring a sport were selected by the Mint, with the youngest designer being just 9 years old. A £2 coin commemorating London's handover to Rio was also released in 2012.\n\nIn April 2014 the mint announced plans for the development of a visitor centre in Llantrisant where members of the public could take part in a guided tour of the facility and learn about the mint's history. The development's contract, estimated to be worth £7.7 million was awarded to construction firm ISG and design consultant Mather & Co who had previously designed the Norwegian Olympic Museum, as well as a handful of visitor attractions for sporting clubs including Chelsea F.C, Manchester City F.C, FC Porto and the Springboks. To fund the development, a grant of £2.3 million was provided by the Welsh Government towards the attraction which aimed to attract 200,000 visitors a year to the area. By May 2016, two years after its announcement the now named \"Royal Mint Experience\" opened to the public at a final cost of £9 million. Included in the visitor centre an interactive museum, a view onto the factory floor, an education centre and a press whereby visitors can strike their own souvenir £1 coin. On display at the centre are more than 80,000 artefacts, including Olympic medals, a pattern coin of Edward VIII, a Janvier reducing machine and a selection of trial plates.\n\nIn the same month the mint took in 48 tonnes of silver recovered from the shipwreck of the SS Gairsoppa which was used to produce limited edition coins.\n\nIn 2015, after nearly 50 years, the mint began producing its own line of bullion bars and coins under its revived \"Royal Mint Refinery\" brand. Then in 2016, the mint announced plans for Royal Mint Gold (RMG), a digital gold currency that uses blockchain to trade and invest in gold. Operated by CME Group, the technology is to be created by technology companies AlphaPoint and BitGo. The system currency which was due to launch in 2017 will be on the gold standard, whereby one RMG token equates to 1 gram of physical gold held within in a Royal Mint vault. Up to $1 billion worth of RMG is set to be issued by the mint.\n\nAs the sole body responsible for minting legal tender coins in the United Kingdom under contract from HM Treasury, the mint produces all of the country's physical currency apart from banknotes which are printed by the Bank of England. On average it produces 2 billion pound sterling coins struck for general circulation every year with an estimated 28 billion pieces circulating altogether. Outside of the UK, the mint provides services to over 60 different countries including New Zealand and many Caribbean nations in the form of producing national currencies or supplying ready to strike planchets. In 2015 it was estimated that 2.4 billion coins were minted for overseas countries outweighing that of domestic coinage and providing over 60% of the mint's revenue from circulating currencies. The sale of commemorative coins also form part of the mint's operations with coins of varying quality and made of different precious metals released yearly for the collector's market.\nAnother important operation performed by the mint which contributes to half the mint's revenue is the sale of bullion to investors or general members of the public in the form of bars or coins. Historically the mint has refined its own metal, however under the advice of an 1848 Royal Commission the process was separated with the independent \"Royal Mint Refinery\" being purchased and operated by Anthony de Rothschild in 1852. The Rothschild family continued the refinery's management until it was sold to Engelhard in 1967, a year later the Royal Mint relocated to Wales and ceased their bullion bar interests until reviving the brand in 2015. Bullion bars produced by the mint are stamped with the original Royal Mint Refinery emblem and come in a range of different sizes.\nMinting of bullion coins began in 1957 to meet a demand for authentic sovereign coins which suffered from heavy counterfeiting. Coins were released almost every year alongside proof versions up to 1982 when production was discontinued. In 1987 the mint started to produce a new type of bullion coin, the 1oz Britannia coin which was gold and had a face value of £100. A silver version with a face value of £2 was also released in 1997. Production of the previously discontinued sovereign and half sovereigns resumed in 2000. In 2014 a lunar coin series begun being minted annually in celebration of Lunar New Year and in 2016 a series featuring The Queen's Beasts began.\nOn occasion, the mint produces medals for government departments and under private contract for clients such as Royal societies, colleges and universities. Most notably the mint has made OBE medals as well as many military honours including the Defence Medal and the Conspicuous Gallantry Cross for the British Armed Forces. For the 2012 Summer Olympics the mint won a contract to produce 4,700 gold, silver and bronze medals for competitors.\n\nPrior to 1851, the making of medals at the mint was at the discretion of engravers who could undertake the work independently and receive and additional wage. A Royal patent which was issued in 1669 granted the mint the sole right to produce medals of any metal which bore a portrait of a monarch. Engravers would use the facilities at the mint to make commemorative medals to their own design for sale. A key date in the mint's history of producing medals for the military is 1815 when the Battle of Waterloo marked the beginning of awarding military campaign medals. By 1874 the mint was responsible for making all bars and clasps for war medals in the country and was making campaign medals such as the New Zealand Medal, the Abyssinian War Medal and the Ashantee Medal.\n\nAt the start of the First World War, military medals were manufactured by the Woolwich Arsenal and private contractors, however in 1922 a new medal unit created by the mint became the sole manufacturer of all Royal and State medals and decorations in metal, except the Victoria Cross which is made by Hancocks & Co. Prior to 2010, all British military medals were made by the mint however now must compete with other manufacturers.\n\nThe Trial of the Pyx is the procedure in the United Kingdom for ensuring that newly-minted coins conform to required standards. The trials have been held since the twelfth century, normally once per calendar year, and continue to the present day. The form of the ceremony has been essentially the same since 1282. They are trials in the full judicial sense, presided over by a judge with an expert jury of assayers. Since 1871, the trials have taken place at the Hall of the Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths, having previously taken place at the Palace of Westminster. Given modern production methods, it is unlikely that coins would not conform, although this has been a problem in the past as it would have been tempting for the Master of the Mint to steal precious metals.\n\nThe term \"Pyx\" refers to the boxwood chest (in Greek, πυξίς, \"pyxis\") in which coins were placed for presentation to the jury. There is also a Pyx Chapel (or Pyx Chamber) in Westminster Abbey, which was once used for secure storage of the Pyx and related articles.\n\nCoins to be tested are drawn from the regular production of The Royal Mint. The Deputy Master of the Mint must, throughout the year, randomly select several thousand sample coins and place them aside for the Trial. These must be in a certain fixed proportion to the number of coins produced. For example, for every 5,000 bimetallic coins issued, one must be set aside, but for silver Maundy money the proportion is one in 150.\n\nThe trial today consists of an inquiry independent of the royal mint\n\nThe jury is composed of Freemen of the Company of Goldsmiths, who assay the coins provided to decide whether they have been minted within the criteria determined by the relevant Coinage Acts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31124961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31124961", "title": "Sky Hooks", "text": "Sky Hooks\n\nSky Hooks is a painted sheet steel sculpture by Alexander Calder, constructed in 1962. It is located at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "753016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=753016", "title": "Substrate (printing)", "text": "Substrate (printing)\n\nSubstrate is used in a converting process such as printing or coating to generally describe the base material onto which, e.g. images, will be printed. Base materials may include:\n\nPrinting processes such as silk-screening and photolithography are used in electronics to produce printed circuit boards and integrated circuits. Some common substrates used are;\n\n"}
{"id": "3088851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3088851", "title": "Tartalo", "text": "Tartalo\n\nTartaro, Tartalo, or Torto in Basque mythology, is an enormously strong one-eyed giant very similar to the Greek Cyclops that Ulysses faced in Homer's Odyssey. He is said to live in caves in the mountains and catches young people in order to eat them; in some accounts he eats sheep also. \n\nAlarabi is another name for the creature. Anxo (or Ancho) may also be equivalent, but some sources say this is another name for the Basajaun.\n\nTartaro (or Tartaroa) is the form given in some translated tales and commentary in French and English\n\nTorto, Anxo and Alarabi were the forms listed in Jose Migel Barandiaran's \"Basque Mythology\", with \"Tartalo\" described as a local variant particular to the Cegama (Zegama) region. Tartalo being a proper name was an idia floated by Barandiaran; but here is an example of a tale in which three Tartaros appear.\n\nAnxo or Ancho is however explained as an alternate name for Basajaun by some sources. Webster ventured that \"Ancho\" derived from \"Sancho\".\n\nTartaro has been described as the Basque equivalent to the cyclops Polyphemus, and similarity to this cyclops in Homer's \"Odyssey\" is compelling, however direct derivation from Homeric sources may not be necessarily involved, since parallels to these can be found worldwide.\n\nTartaro according to foltale tradition is a huge, one-eyed being, are usually cave-dwelling, capturing young folk or those who sought shelter in his cave, and devouring them. In one oral account, the Tartaro ate one whole sheep each day.\n\nA mystical ring is a common theme in the Tartalo/Tartaro tales. In one version, the Tartaro (a prince turned monster who needed a bride to turn back) makes a gift of a ring to a girl, and it turns out to be a \"talking ring\"; she cuts off her finger to rid herself of it, and the monster. Webster noted this ring motif had its parallel in the Celtic (Scottish Gaelic) \"Conall Cra Bhuidhe\" (\"Conall Yellowclaw\"), published by John Francis Campbell, but none to be found in classical sources.\n\nThe motif of the hero blinding Tartaro has both a classical and Celtic (Irish) parallel: Oddyseus blinding the cyclops Polyphemus in Homer's \"Odyssey\" and Lug hurling a spear or projectile into the eye of Balor.\n\nOne day, while two brothers of the \"Antimuño\" baserri were hunting, a storm broke, so they decided to take refuge from the rain in a cave, which was Tartalo's cave. Soon after, Tartalo appeared with his flock of sheep. He saw the two brothers and said: \"one for today and the other for tomorrow\".\n\nThat same day he cooked and ate the eldest one, and then, he went to sleep. While he was sleeping, the youngest brother stole Tartalo's ring and then he stuck the roasting spit in his only eye. Tartalo was blind, but not dead yet.\n\nHe started to look for the boy among his sheep, but he put on a sheep's skin and escaped from Tartalo. But, unluckily, when he got out of the flock of sheep, the accuser ring started to shout: \"Here I am, here I am!\".\n\nTartalo got out of his cave and he started to run after the ring, hearing its shouts. The young one wasn't able to take off the ring, so, when he arrived to the edge of a cliff, he cut off his finger, and since Tartalo was near, he decided to throw it down the cliff. Tartalo, following the ring's shouting, fell off the cliff.\n\n"}
{"id": "876728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=876728", "title": "The Muppet Movie", "text": "The Muppet Movie\n\nThe Muppet Movie is a 1979 musical road comedy film and the first theatrical film featuring the Muppets. Directed by James Frawley and produced by Jim Henson, the film's screenplay was conceived by \"The Muppet Show\" writers Jerry Juhl and Jack Burns. An American and British venture produced by Henson Associates and ITC Entertainment between the first half and the second half of \"The Muppet Show\"'s third season, the film depicts Kermit the Frog as he embarks on a cross-country trip to Hollywood, California. Along the way, he encounters several of the Muppets—who all share the same ambition of finding success in professional show business—while being pursued by Doc Hopper, an evil restaurateur with intentions of employing Kermit as a spokesperson for his frog legs business.\n\nIn addition to the Muppet performers, the film stars Charles Durning and Austin Pendleton, and features cameo appearances by Dom DeLuise, James Coburn, Edgar Bergen, Steve Martin, and Mel Brooks, among others. Notable for its surreal humour, meta-references and prolific use of cameos, \"The Muppet Movie\" was released in the United Kingdom on May 31, 1979, and in the United States on June 22, 1979, and received critical praise; including two Academy Award nominations for Paul Williams and Kenneth Ascher's musical score and their song, \"The Rainbow Connection\". In 2009, the film was deemed \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\" by the Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.\n\nThe success of \"The Muppet Movie\" led to several other feature films starring the Muppets: \"The Great Muppet Caper\" (1981), \"The Muppets Take Manhattan\" (1984), \"The Muppet Christmas Carol\" (1992), \"Muppet Treasure Island\" (1996), \"Muppets from Space\" (1999), \"The Muppets\" (2011), and \"Muppets Most Wanted\" (2014).\n\nIt all starts when Kermit the Frog enjoys a relaxing afternoon in a Florida swamp, strumming his banjo and singing \"The Rainbow Connection\", when he is approached by a Hollywood talent agent named Bernie (Dom DeLuise) who encourages Kermit to pursue a career in show business. Inspired by the idea of \"making millions of people happy\", Kermit sets off on a cross-country trip to Los Angeles, but is soon pursued by entrepreneur Doc Hopper (Charles Durning) and his shy assistant Max (Austin Pendleton) in an attempt to convince Kermit to be the new spokesman of Hopper's struggling French-fried frog legs restaurant franchise, to Kermit's disgust. As Kermit continuously declines his offers, Hopper resorts to increasingly vicious means of persuasion.\n\nMeeting Fozzie Bear, who works as a hapless comedian in the El Sleezo Cafe, Kermit invites Fozzie to accompany him. The two set out in a 1951 Studebaker loaned to Fozzie by his hibernating uncle. The duo's journey includes misadventures which introduce them to a variety of eccentric human and Muppet characters, including Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem and their manager Scooter, who receives a copy of the script from the pair (one of a number of self-references) at an old Presbyterian church; Gonzo, who works as a plumber, and his girlfriend Camilla the Chicken; Sweetums, who runs after them after they mistakenly think that he has turned them down at a used car lot; and the immediately love-stricken Miss Piggy at a fair.\n\nWhile Kermit and Miss Piggy form a relationship over dinner that night, Doc Hopper and Max do a surprise attack to Miss Piggy and use her as bait to lure Kermit into a trap. Using an electronic cerebrectomy device, scientist Professor Krassman (Mel Brooks) decides to brainwash Kermit in an attempt to force Kermit to perform in Doc's commercials until an infuriated Miss Piggy knocks out Doc Hopper's henchmen and causes the scientist to be brainwashed by his own device. After receiving a job offer, however, she promptly abandons a devastated Kermit.\n\nHaving been joined by Rowlf the Dog and reunited with Miss Piggy, the Muppets continue their journey to Hollywood. Fozzie's 1946 Ford Woodie station wagon trade-in breaks down in the New Mexico desert. He then comes across Big Bird, who tells him he's on his way so he can act in a television program in New York. During a campfire that night, the group sadly considers that they may miss the audition the next day, and Kermit wanders off, ashamed of himself for seemingly bringing his friends on a fruitless journey. Upon consulting a more optimistic vision of himself, Kermit remembers that it was not just his friends' belief in the dream that brought them this far, but also his own faith in himself. Reinvigorated, he returns to camp to find that the Electric Mayhem and Scooter have read the script in advance, and arrived to help them the rest of the way.\n\nJust as it seems they are finally on their way, the group is warned by Max that Doc Hopper has hired an assassin named Snake Walker to kill Kermit. Kermit decides he will not be hunted down by a bully any longer and proposes a Western-style showdown in a nearby ghost town occupied by Dr. Bunsen Honeydew and his assistant Beaker, who invent materials that have yet to be tested. While confronting Hopper, Kermit explains his motivations, attempting to appeal to Hopper's own hopes and dreams, but Hopper is unmoved and orders his henchmen to kill him and all his friends. They are saved only when one of Dr. Bunsen's inventions, \"insta-grow\" pills, temporarily turns Animal (the Electric Mayhem’s drummer) into a giant, causing Hopper and his men to flee while Max turns around, laughs gleefully and waves his hat at the Muppets.\n\nThe Muppets proceed to Hollywood, and after getting by his secretary, Miss Tracy (Cloris Leachman), via causing her allergic reactions to their dander and fur, are hired by producer and studio executive Lew Lord (Orson Welles). The Muppets attempt to make their first movie involving a surreal pastiche of their experiences. The first take goes awry when Gonzo, holding pastiche versions of the balloons he flew away on earlier, crashes into the rainbow, breaking it in half and sending it falling onto the rest of the set, bringing it down as well, then Crazy Harry pulls two levers in the control room, which overloads the electricity circuits and causes enough of an explosion to blow a hole in the roof of the studio. However, in their stunned silence of the whole chain of events, a rainbow suddenly shines through the hole into the studio right onto the Muppets. The Muppets, joined by Big Bird, Oscar the Grouch, Ernie and Bert, Grover, Cookie Monster, Herry Monster, Count von Count, Little Bird, Biff and Sully, Gladys the Cow, Mr. Johnson, Two-Headed Monster, and others sing the final verses of \"The Rainbow Connection.\"\n\n\n\nFrank Oz appears in a cameo as a biker who beats up Fozzie Bear while Steve Whitmire appears as a man in the Bogen County Fair. Also, director Tim Burton is one of the puppeteers in the final shot of the film. John Landis is also in the final shot, performing Grover. Landis and Burton were both uncredited.\n\n\n\nThe main obstacle the filmmakers were faced with during the development of \"The Muppet Movie\" was whether the Muppets would transition seamlessly from television to film. In 1978, director James Frawley, Jim Henson, and Frank Oz filmed several camera tests outside London to test how the characters would appear in real-world locations.\n\nTo perform Kermit static on a log, Henson squeezed into a specially designed metal container complete with an air hose (to breathe), a rubber sleeve which came out of the top to perform Kermit and a monitor to see his performance, and placed himself under the water, log, and the Kermit puppet. He was also assisted in this operation by Kathryn Mullen and Steve Whitmire. This scene took five days to film.\n\nBefore this, no film had a hand puppet act with its entire body appearing on-screen. That is, hand puppets were only seen from the waist up, and it became a major plot point to show Kermit with legs. To have Kermit ride a bicycle in a full-body shot, a Kermit puppet with legs was posed onto the seat and his legs and arms were attached to the pedals and handlebars. An overhead crane with a marionette system held the bicycle through strong strings invisible to the camera, guiding the bicycle forward. The crane and system was out of the camera's frame of vision.\n\nOther shots required Muppets standing and acting in a full-body shot. Specially-made, remote-controlled puppets were placed on the set and controlled by puppeteers out of the frame. A dancing Kermit and Fozzie Bear were operated by Henson and Frank Oz in front of a blue screen, and were composited onto a separate reel of the stage. Both of these effects and the bicycle effect would be used again, and refined, in subsequent Muppet films.\n\nAustin Pendleton recalled that the film was shot on \"a very unhappy set, because Jim [Frawley] was very unhappy directing that movie. And I noticed that was the only time the Muppet people used an outside person to direct a Muppet movie. They never did that again. After that, it was either Jim Henson or Frank Oz. And I would have liked to have been in one of those, because those sets were very harmonious. But this was not.\" Filming locations included Albuquerque, New Mexico.\n\nThe closing reprise of \"Rainbow Connection\" featured a crowd of more than 250 Muppet characters—virtually every Muppet that had been created up to that point in time. According to Henson Archivist Karen Falk: \"137 puppeteers were enlisted from the Puppeteers of America (along with the regular Muppet performers) to perform every Muppet extant. Prior to the day-long filming of the shot, Jim Henson gave the enthusiastic participants a lesson in the art of cinematic puppetry. Amazingly, it did take just one day.\" The Muppet Show Fan Club newsletter answered the question of \"How did they do it?\" The response was \"There are 250 puppets in the last shot of the film, and they're all moving. How? 150 puppeteers in a 6' deep, 17' wide pit, that's how. They were recruited through the Los Angeles Guild of The Puppeteers of America and almost every puppeteer west of the Rockies reported for pit duty.\" The film is dedicated to ventriloquist Edgar Bergen who appears in the movie in a cameo role and died during production in September 1978.\n\n\"The Muppet Movie\" uses meta-references as a source of humor, as characters occasionally break the fourth wall to address the audience or comment on their real-life circumstances. In one scene, Kermit and Fozzie encounter Big Bird on the road, offering him a lift to Hollywood, but he declines, heading to New York City to break into public television, referencing the character's role in \"Sesame Street\".\n\nIn a particularly meta-fictional plot twist, Kermit and Fozzie actually give the screenplay to Dr. Teeth, who later uses it to find and rescue them after they have been stranded in the desert.\n\nSeveral classic cars were specially selected by Henson for appearances in the film. The most prominent were a pair of 1951 Studebaker Commander Coupes driven by Fozzie Bear in the film. One car was painted but unmodified and driven by a person in the front seat. It was used for long, traveling shots. The second car was driven by a person in the trunk, who viewed the road through a TV set. The television received its image from a camera located in the center nose of the car's front grille. This made it possible for Frank Oz to perform Fozzie Bear in the front seat, and have the character seemingly drive the car in close-up shots. This car is now on display at the Studebaker National Museum in South Bend, Indiana.\n\nDoc Hopper is chauffeured throughout the movie by Max in a 1959 Cadillac Fleetwood 75 Limousine.\n\nThe final car driven by the Muppets is a 1946 Ford Woodie station wagon, famous for its wood panel siding and a valuable collectible.\n\nThe film's music was written by Kenneth Ascher and Paul Williams. Regarding the music's composition, Williams said; \"Jim Henson gave you more [creative] freedom than anybody I've ever worked with in my life. I said, 'You want to hear the songs as we're writing them?' He said, 'No. I'll hear them in the studio. I know I'm gonna love them.' You just don't get that kind of freedom on a project these days.\"\n\n\"Movin' Right Along\", \"Never Before, Never Again\", and \"I Hope That Somethin' Better Comes Along\" were shortened in the film, compared to their soundtrack versions, for continuity purposes. The latter, a duet between Rowlf and Kermit, contained references that the studio considered too mature for children, although the song appeared complete in the British theatrical and home video debut versions. In \"Finale: The Magic Store\", a line performed by Kermit in the film is sung by Fozzie on the soundtrack recording.\n\nThe film proved to be a huge hit at the box office during the summer of 1979 and ended up grossing $76,657,000 domestically (adjusted for inflation, this would equal $265,703,546 in 2016 dollars), making it the seventh highest-grossing film of 1979 and also, the second highest-grossing Muppet film after the release of \"The Muppets\" in 2011. The success of the film gave Jim Henson Productions an opportunity to release more Muppet productions theatrically.\n\nThe film's successful theatrical release encouraged Lew Grade into furthering his own film distribution company, which later backfired with the massive box office failures of \"Can't Stop the Music\" (from EMI) and \"Raise the Titanic\" (from ITC), both released by Associated Film Distribution just a year later.\n\n\"The Muppet Movie\" received positive reviews. The film currently holds an 88% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes with an average score of 8/10, based on 48 reviews. The site's consensus says \"\"The Muppet Movie\", the big-screen debut of Jim Henson's plush creations, is smart, lighthearted, and fun for all ages.\"\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film three-and-a-half out of four stars. In his favorable review, he was fascinated that \"\"The Muppet Movie\" not only stars the Muppets but, for the first time, shows us their feet.\" Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" offered equal praise, stating that the film \"demonstrates once again that there's always room in movies for unbridled amiability when it's governed by intelligence and wit.\" Leonard Maltin's annual movie guide found the film enjoyable, though he called the score \"pedestrian\", despite the song \"Rainbow Connection\" being nominated for an Academy Award.\n\nIn 2009, it was named to the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress for being \"culturally, historically or aesthetically\" significant and will be preserved for all time.\n\n\n\"The Muppet Movie\" was the first film from ITC Entertainment to be released on home video when Magnetic Video issued it in January 1980, having acquired the video rights to ITC's films. It was reissued a few times more by CBS/Fox Video before it was released by Jim Henson Video in 1993. The movie was reissued on VHS by Columbia Tristar Home Video and Jim Henson Home Entertainment in 1 June 1999. The film's first DVD release was from Sony Pictures Home Entertainment and Jim Henson Home Entertainment on June 5, 2001. It was re-released by Walt Disney Home Entertainment on DVD and reissued as a Walt Disney Pictures release on November 29, 2005 as \"Kermit's 50th Anniversary Edition\".\n\nWalt Disney Studios Home Entertainment released \"The Muppet Movie\" as the \"Nearly 35th Anniversary Edition\" on Blu-ray Disc and DVD on August 13, 2013.\n\nIn February 2018, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" will announced that Jim Henson Productions developing a animated remake of \"The Muppet Movie\" titled \"Kermit\". In March 2018, Matthew Broderick and Naomi Scott talked to voice roles of Kermit the Frog and Miss Piggy. In April 2018, Devon Scott, John Cusack, Phil Morris and Jonathan Freeman talked to voice roles of Fozzie Bear, Gonzo, Insolent Waiter and Swedish Chef. In May 2018, Jennifer Aniston talked to voice role of Beaker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30741571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30741571", "title": "Upright Motive No. 1: Glenkiln Cross", "text": "Upright Motive No. 1: Glenkiln Cross\n\nUpright Motive No. 1: Glenkiln Cross is a bronze sculpture by Henry Moore, cast in a number of copies in 1955-56. It was the first of a series of narrow vertical sculptures by Moore, who compared them to totem poles.\n\nThere are versions in Glenkiln Sculpture Park, in Dumfries and Galloway, south-west Scotland, from where it takes its name, the Kroller-Muller Museum in Otterlo in the Netherlands, the Amon Carter Museum in Fort Worth, Texas, and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C.. Some of these are mounted in a row with others of the \"Upright Motive\" series, as at Otterlo and Fort Worth; three in a row producing a reminiscence of the three crosses in the Crucifixion of Jesus.\n\nMoore described how the original idea came from a commission for an Olivetti building in Milan, where he \"visited the site and a lone Lombardy poplar growing behind the building convinced me that a vertical work would act as the correct counterfoil to the horizontal rhythm of the building. This idea grew ultimately into the 'Upright Motifs'.\" \nBetween 1951 and 1976, Sir William Keswick, who owned the Glenkiln estate, bought and arranged works by Henry Moore, Jacob Epstein, and Auguste Rodin, creating the world's first collection of sculpture in a landscape setting, Glenkiln Sculpture Park. Moore and Keswick installed the first cast of the cross on a hilltop, where they saw a shepherd and his flock; Moore said \"From a distance it looks rather like one of the old Celtic crosses.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "489226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489226", "title": "Vanishing hitchhiker", "text": "Vanishing hitchhiker\n\nThe vanishing hitchhiker (or variations such as the ghostly hitchhiker, disappearing hitchhiker, phantom hitchhiker) is an urban legend in which people travelling by vehicle, meet with or are accompanied by a hitchhiker who subsequently vanishes without explanation, often from a moving vehicle.\n\nPublic knowledge of the story expanded greatly with the 1981 publication of Jan Harold Brunvand's non-fiction book \"The Vanishing Hitchhiker\". In his book, Brunvand suggests that the story of \"The Vanishing Hitchhiker\" can be traced as far back as the 1870s and has \"recognizable parallels in Korea, Tsarist Russia, among Chinese-Americans, Mormons, and Ozark mountaineers.\" Similar stories have been reported for centuries across the world.\n\nA common variation of the above involves the vanishing hitchhiker departing as would a normal passenger, having left some item in the vehicle, or having borrowed a garment for protection against the cold. The vanishing hitchhiker may also leave some form of information that encourages the motorist to make subsequent contact.\n\nIn such accounts of the legend, the garment borrowed is often found draped over a gravestone in a local cemetery. In this and other versions of the urban legend, the unsuspecting motorist makes contact with the family of a deceased person using the information the hitchhiker left behind and finds that the family's description of the deceased matches the passenger the motorist picked up and also finds that they were killed in some unexpected way (usually a car accident) and that the driver's encounter with the vanishing hitchhiker occurred on the anniversary of their death.\n\nOther variations reverse this scenario, in that the hitchhiker meets a driver; the hitchhiker later learns that the driver is actually an apparation of a person who died earlier.\n\nNot all vanishing hitchhiker legends involve ghosts. One popular variant in Hawaii involves the goddess Pele, travelling the roads incognito and rewarding kind travellers, other variants include hitchhikers who utter prophecies (typically of pending catastrophes or other evil events) before vanishing.\n\nThere is a similar story which is about two travellers sitting next to each other on a train (normally a man and a woman), one of them is reading a book and the other person asks what the book is about, the first person says that it's about ghosts and they then have a conversation about ghosts, the second person then asks if the first person believes in ghosts or has ever seen one, to which the first person says that they have never seen or believed in ghosts at all, the second person then says that, this is doubtful and with that the second person vanishes.\n\nThe first proper study of the story of the vanishing hitchhiker was undertaken in 1942–43 by American folklorists Richard Beardsley and Rosalie Hankey, who collected as many accounts as they could and attempted to analyze them.\n\nThe Beardsley-Hankey survey elicited 79 written accounts of encounters with vanishing hitchhikers, drawn from across the United States. They found: \"Four distinctly different versions, distinguishable because of obvious differences in development and essence.\" These are described as:\n\n\nBeardsley and Hankey were particularly interested to note one instance (location: Kingston, New York, 1941) in which the vanishing hitchhiker was subsequently identified as the late Mother Cabrini, founder of the local Sacred Heart Orphanage, who was beatified for her work. The authors felt that this was a case of Version 'B' glimpsed in transition to Version 'D'.\n\nBeardsley and Hankey concluded that Version 'A' was closest to the original form of the story, containing the essential elements of the legend. Version 'B' and 'D', they believed, were localized variations, while 'C' was supposed to have started life as a separate ghost story which at some stage became conflated with the original vanishing hitchhiker story (Version 'A').\n\nOne of their conclusions certainly seems reflected in the continuation of vanishing hitchhiker stories: The hitchhiker is, in the majority of cases, female and the lift-giver male. Beardsley and Hankey's sample contained 47 young female apparitions, 14 old lady apparitions, and 14 more of an indeterminate sort.\n\nErnest W. Baughman's \"Type- and Motif-Index of the Folk Tales of England and North America\" (1966) delineates the basic vanishing hitchhiker as follows:\n\nGhost of young woman asks for ride in automobile, disappears from closed car without the driver's knowledge, after giving him an address to which she wishes to be taken. The driver asks person at the address about the rider, finds she has been dead for some time. (Often the driver finds that the ghost has made similar attempts to return, usually on the anniversary of death in automobile accident. Often, too, the ghost leaves some item such as a scarf or traveling bag in the car.)\n\nBaughman's classification system grades this basic story as motif E332.3.3.1.\n\nSubcategories include:\n\nHere, the phenomenon blends into religious encounters, with the next and last vanishing hitchhiker classification  — E332.3.3.2 — being for encounters with divinities who take to the road as hitchhikers. The legend of Saint Christopher is considered one of these, and the story of Philip the Evangelist being transported by God after encountering the Ethiopian on the road (Acts 8:26-39) is sometimes similarly interpreted.\n\nParanormal researcher Michael Goss in his book \"The Evidence for Phantom Hitch-Hikers\" discovered that many reports of vanishing hitchhikers turn out be based on folklore and hearsay stories. Goss also examined some cases and attributed them to hallucination of the experiencer. According to Goss most of the stories are \"fabricated, folklore creations retold in new settings.\"\n\nSkeptic Joe Nickell, who investigated two alleged cases, concluded that there is no reliable evidence for vanishing hitchhikers. Historical examples have their origin in folklore tales and urban legends. Modern cases often involve conflicting accounts that may well be the result of exaggeration, illusion or hoaxing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39770744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39770744", "title": "Wielkopolska Chronicle", "text": "Wielkopolska Chronicle\n\nThe Wielkopolska Chronicle (or \"Chronicle of Greater Poland\", ) is an anonymous medieval chronicle describing supposed history of Poland from legendary times up to the year 1273. It was written in Latin at the end of the 13th or the beginning of the 14th century.\n\nThe chronicle was written from the point of view of the region of Wielkopolska (\"Greater Poland\"). Its actual title is unknown. In one of the remaining copies it's written down as \"Chronicum Poloniae\" and in another \"Annalia vestuste gentic Polonorum vel Kronice\".\n\nSome historians, such as Brygida Kürbis have argued that the first edition of the work was created between 1283 and 1296 and its author was the curator of the Poznań capitulary, Godzisław Baszko. A second edition was completed between 1377 and 1384, which is partly supported by inclusion of material supported by the Chronicle of Dzierzwa from the beginning of 14th century. Others, like Jan Dąbrowski, have posited that the entire chronicle was written by Jan of Czarnków in the second half of the 14th century.\n\nThere are nine existing manuscripts, including a \"Great Chronicle\" copy which contains a collection of historical sources collected in Wielkopolska at the end of the 14th century.\n\nThe purpose of the author was to record the history of the rulers of Poland. The chronicle covers mythical events from pre-history up to the year 1271/72, and in two additions the year 1273. As a source, stylistically the chronicle is composed of two parts. The first, going up to the year 1202 is based on the \"Chronica Polonorum\" of Wincenty Kadłubek. The second part, written more in the style of annals is based on yearly records of Capitularies of Gniezno and Poznań. Other sources used by the author most likely include the lost \"Annales Polonorum historiae\", church archives, and \"Vita s. Stanislai, Vita maior\" (Life of Saint Stanisław) of Wincenty of Kielcza. The introduction to the work has survived in two editions of the manuscript. One of these was written in 1295/1296 (it mentions Przemysł II as the current ruler). The other, more extensive one, was most likely created in the 14th century.\n\nThe chronicle was translated into Polish in 1965 by Kazimierz Abgarowicz.\n\nThe chronicle can be seen as a \"gesta ducum\", a composition whose purpose is to celebrate the deeds of princes and kings. The central figures of the work are the Piast rulers of Wielkoposka, Przemysł I and Przemysł II. Przemysł I is presented as an ideal of a ruler who combines knightly valor (engaging himself only in defensive wars) with religious values (Christian humility and devotion). Other ideal rulers presented in the chronicle include other Polish kings and dukes, including Bolesław II the Generous (before the murder of Saint Stanisław) and Bolesław III Wrymouth.\n\nAmong other stories, legends, and historical narratives, the Wielkopolska Chronicle contains the first recorded version of the legend of Lech, Čech, and Rus, as well as a Polish version of the story of Waldere and Hildegyth (also Waltharius), a popular tale of medieval Europe, transplanted onto Polish soil.\n\n"}
{"id": "213923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213923", "title": "William Carew Hazlitt", "text": "William Carew Hazlitt\n\nWilliam Carew Hazlitt (22 August 1834 – 8 September 1913), known professionally as W. Carew Hazlitt, was an English lawyer, bibliographer, editor and writer. He was the son of the barrister and registrar William Hazlitt, a grandson of the essayist and critic William Hazlitt, and a great-grandson of the Unitarian minister and author William Hazlitt. William Carew Hazlitt was educated at the Merchant Taylors' School and was called to the bar of the Inner Temple in 1861.\n\nAmong his many publications are a , supplemented in 1876, 1882, 1887 and 1889, a General Index by J. G. Gray appearing in 1893. Hazlitt published further contributions to the subject in \"Bibliographical Collections and Notes on Early English Literature, Made During the Years 1893–1903\" (1903), and a \"Manual for the Collector and Amateur of Old English Plays ...\" (1892). He was also the chief editor of an edition of Warton's \"History of English Poetry\" (1871) and compiled the \"Catalogue of the Huth Library\" (1880).\n\nHe also published \"Collections and Notes, 1867-1876\" (London: Reeves & Turner, 1876, containing detailed bibliographical entries on many early English printed books) followed by .\nHis autobiography is .\n\nIn 1875, he published an edition of the works of Thomas Randolph.\n\nHe published and .\n\nOf great use, interest and delight to gardeners and collectors of herbals, etc. is his \"Gleanings in Old Garden Literature\", published by Elliot Stock, London, 1887, in \"The Book-Lover's Library\". This book includes, in its final chapter, a \"Bibliography of Gardening Literature, 1603 - 1800, and of Herbals and Bee Culture\".\n\nCompendious in scope and idiosyncratic in selection is his , which preserves evidence of numerous folk customs now extinct.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1897130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1897130", "title": "William Muldoon", "text": "William Muldoon\n\nWilliam A. Muldoon (May 25, 1852 – June 3, 1933) was the Greco-Roman Wrestling Champion, a physical culturist and the first chairman of the New York State Athletic Commission. He once wrestled a match that lasted over seven hours. Nicknamed \"The Solid Man,\" Muldoon established himself as champion in Greco-Roman wrestling in the 1880s and over the years gained a remarkable measure of public influence that would continue through his days as a health farm proprietor in Westchester County and his service on NYSAC. Muldoon was a mainstay in New York sports for over 50 years.\n\nBorn in Allegany County, New York, Muldoon was the son of Irish immigrants. His father was a farmer. Showing a knack for strength athletics at a young age, Muldoon gained a local reputation as a standout in caber-tossing, weightlifting, sprinting and amateur wrestling. His youth was otherwise characterized by a brutish, flash temper, and his desire to be treated with the respect of an adult despite being a child.\n\nMuldoon journeyed to Paris to serve as a volunteer in the French Army in the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71, where he met publisher James Gordon Bennett, Jr., who told Muldoon he had the potential to be the best Greco-Roman wrestler in the world if he concentrated on it.\n\nBy 1876, Muldoon was living in New York City, where he accepted appointment to the New York Police Department at the behest of Senator John Morrissey, former bare-knuckle boxing champion. At the time of his resignation in 1881 Muldoon was a detective.\n\nIn 1880, Muldoon gained recognition as World's Greco-Roman Champion with a win over title claimant Thiebaud Bauer. His rise to prominence brought challengers from across the globe, including Edwin Bibby and Tom Cannon of England, Donald Dinnie of Scotland, \"Mat\" Sorakichi of Japan, Carl Abs of Germany, William Miller of Australia, and John McMahon and Clarence Whistler, the latter being Muldoon's opponent in a titanic seven-hour match in 1881, where neither could gain a single fall.\n\nFollowing the celebrated match with Whistler, Muldoon assembled an athletic combination and toured the country promoting athletic events and defending his title against all comers. Muldoon became involved in theater around this time, stemming from his fame in athletics. In 1883 he shared the bill with Maurice Barrymore, a boxer turned actor, in Madame Modjeska's production of Shakespeare's \"As You Like It.\" In 1887, he appeared on Broadway as \"The Fighting Gaul\" in \"Spartacus.\"\n\nMuldoon was one of a party of gentlemen entertained by Robert Emmet Odlum, brother of women's rights activist Charlotte Odlum Smith, on the morning of May 19, 1885, the day he jumped from the Brooklyn Bridge and was killed. Muldoon assisted in unsuccessful resuscitation efforts and summoned an ambulance, which was too late to save Odlum.\n\nIn 1889 Muldoon trained John L. Sullivan for his famous 75-round fight against Jake Kilrain for the world heavyweight bare-knuckle boxing championship. He had done so on a friendly wager and offered to absorb expenses if Sullivan lost. Sullivan won and Muldoon gained national notice for restoring the boxing champion to fighting form. Muldoon's methods at accomplishing Sullivan's rejuvenation gained much public interest.\n\nMuldoon was never defeated for his Greco-Roman Championship. He wrestled in his final championship match in 1890, defeating Evan Lewis in Philadelphia. Despite being implored by promoters and challengers to come out of retirement, Muldoon never wrestled another finish match or claimed any active championship. He symbolically passed his World's Greco-Roman Championship to protégé Ernest Roeber (whom Lewis later defeated). Muldoon would make his final public appearance as a wrestler in a charity exhibition match against Roeber at Madison Square Garden in 1894.\n\nThat same year Muldoon moved his health farm from Belfast, New York to White Plains. As he tapered off direct involvement in professional athletics he devoted more time to devising his system on restoring one's health. Muldoon continued to train boxers and wrestlers until boxing was banned in New York at the turn of the century.\n\nIn 1900, Muldoon opened what would become the work of his life, the well-known health institute \"The Olympia,\" at Purchase, New York. In subsequent years through the success of the Olympia Muldoon would again gain national notice as he treated such notables there as U.S. Ambassador to Great Britain Joseph Hodges Choate, publisher Ralph Pulitzer, Senator Chauncey Depew, Major General J. Franklin Bell, essayist Elbert Hubbard novelist Theodore Dreiser and Secretary of State Elihu Root, who was sent to Muldoon by President Roosevelt. In 1907 there was talk that Muldoon would be appointed to the president's cabinet to oversee physical health. For his uncompromised methods at his health farm Muldoon was dubbed the \"Professor.\" Journalist Nellie Bly was the first woman to complete Muldoon's system.\n\nIn the spring of 1909 Muldoon made a final return to the stage in a theatrical tour organized in benefit of The Lambs. Muldoon dedicated a Civil War monument to the town of Belfast, New York, listing the names of local veterans in 1915, including that of his older brother John.\nIn 1921 Muldoon was personally tapped by Governor Nathan Lewis Miller as the inaugural Chairman of the New York State Athletic Commission, when professional boxing's status was legally restored in New York. While on NYSAC, Muldoon's czarish decrees characterized his inflexible sense of integrity to the press and sporting public. He was dubbed in the papers the \"Iron Duke.\"\n\nIn 1927 Muldoon was profiled by \"The New Yorker\" magazine and in 1929 by \"The Saturday Evening Post\". A biography was published in 1928, with a foreword by Jack Dempsey.\n\nWilliam Muldoon died at age 81 in Westchester County, New York, and was interred in a grandiose private mausoleum at Kensico Cemetery in Valhalla, New York. Sometime after the end of his wrestling career and before the turn of the century, Muldoon had mendaciously claimed for years that he was born in 1845, and 7 years older than his age verified in the Muldoon Family Bible, which documents his real birth year.\n\nIn 1996, Muldoon was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2004, he was inducted into the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame and Museum under the \"Pioneer Era\" category.\n\nMuldoon claimed to be a lifelong bachelor. However, he was married twice; the first marriage ended in divorce, the other in separation. His housekeeper of 30 years Leonie Lutringer left her entire estate to Muldoon in 1922. It was revealed later in his life that he had adopted his longtime secretary Margaret Farrell – she received his entire estate at his death. Muldoon was diagnosed with terminal cancer in 1931, though his doctors did not reveal the nature of his illness to him. Muldoon died two years later. Retired boxing champion Gene Tunney, a disciple of Muldoon, remarked to the \"Times\" at the time of Muldoon's death, \"All I know about training I learned from him…. His patience, intellectual courage and wisdom were inspirational.\" William Muldoon was interred at Kensico Cemetery, Valhalla, NY.\n\nMuldoon was a strong advocate of compulsory military service, equestrianism, physical culture and the Boy Scouts of America, citing the latter as the only organization left devoted to leadership-building for young men.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57945487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57945487", "title": "World Football Elo Ratings", "text": "World Football Elo Ratings\n\nThe World Football Elo Ratings is a ranking system for men's national association football teams that is published by the website eloratings.net. It is based on the Elo rating system but includes modifications to take various football-specific variables into account, like the margin of victory, importance of a match, and home field advantage. Other implementations of the Elo rating system are possible and there is no single nor any official Elo ranking for football teams. \n\nSince being developed, the Elo rankings have been found to have the highest predictive capability for football matches. FIFA's official rankings, both the FIFA World Rankings for men and the FIFA Women's World Rankings are based on a modified version of the Elo formula, the men's rankings having switched away from FIFA's own system for matches played since June 2018.\n\nThe following table shows the top 100 teams in the World Football Elo Ratings as they were on 20 November 2018, using data from the World Football Elo Ratings web site.\n\nEach national team's FIFA World Ranking is shown as per the latest release on 25 October 2018.\n\nThe following is the list of nations who have achieved the number one position in the World Football Elo Ratings since 1872:\n\nThe following is a list of national football teams ranked by their highest Elo score ever reached. The team in each confederation that has achieved the highest rank is shown in color.\n\nThe following is a list of national football teams ranked by their highest Elo ranking ever reached. \n\nThe biggest point gap between 1st and 2nd national team was between 14 March and 21 March 1885, when Scotland (at 2094) led by 205 points over 2nd ranked England (at 1889).\n\nTime averaged Elo or Elo-like scores are routinely used to compare chess player strengths. The following is a list of the national teams with the highest average Elo score from 1 January 1970 to 1 January 2018. Before this time intercontinental play was fairly limited and many nations in Africa, North America, and Asia had played too few games yet to create a representative Elo score.\n\nTime averaged Elo or Elo-like scores are routinely used to compare chess player strengths. \n\nThis table is directly extracted from the eloratings.net website. The numbers represent may not be directly comparable. For England and Scotland they represent 146 years of matches (in 2018), for Ukraine 26 years, and for Montenegro 11 years. For Croatia and Slovakia the average is dominated by the single rating during the 50 years between the few games played between 1940 and 1943 and the rebirth of the countries in the 1990s. Likewise, South Africa's average is mostly determined by the 44 matches (of a 417 total in 2018) played in the 86 years before it rejoined FIFA in 1992.\n\nThis table is a list of the national teams with the highest average Elo score over approximately the last half century, from 1 January 1970 to 1 January 2018. Before this time intercontinental play was fairly limited and many nations in Africa, North America, and Asia had played too few games yet to create a representative Elo score. Only teams playing over the entire period are included. Short-lived or recently originated strong football teams, like East-Germany and Croatia, appear in the decades table below.\n\nThe table below shows the teams with the best average Elo score per decade (Jan 1 XXX0 - Dec 31 XXX9).\n\nA list of the 25 matches between teams with the highest combined Elo ratings (the nations' points before the matches are given).\n\nThis is a list of matches with the biggest point exchange. Since the importance of the match, the goal differential and the perceived home team advantage are factored in the exchange, these are not necessarily the most surprising wins as expressed by the difference in Elo rating.<br>\n<nowiki>*</nowiki><br>\n\nThe Elo system, developed by Hungarian-American mathematician Árpád Élő, is used by FIDE, the international chess federation, to rate chess players, and by the European Go Federation, to rate Go players. In 1997, Bob Runyan adapted the Elo rating system to international football and posted the results on the Internet. He was also the first maintainer of the World Football Elo Ratings web site, currently maintained by Kirill Bulygin. Other implementations of the Elo rating system are possible but the Runyan system is the best known.\n\nThe Elo system was adapted for football by adding a weighting for the kind of match, an adjustment for the home team advantage, and an adjustment for goal difference in the match result.\n\nThe factors taken into consideration when calculating a team's new rating are:\n\nThe different weights of competitions in descending order are:\n\nThe ratings consider all official international matches for which results are available. Ratings tend to converge on a team's true strength relative to its competitors after about 30 matches. Ratings tend to converge on a team's true strength relative to its competitors after about 30 matches; ratings for teams with fewer than 30 matches are considered provisional.\n\nA 2009 comparative study of eight methods found that the implementation of the Elo rating system described below had the highest predictive capability for football matches, while the men's FIFA ranking method (2006–2018 system) performed poorly. \n\nThe FIFA World Rankings is the official national teams rating system used by the international governing body of football. The FIFA Women's World Rankings system has used a modified version of the Elo formula since 2003. In June 2018, the FIFA ranking switched to an Elo-based ranking as well, starting from the current FIFA rating points. The major difference between the World Football Elo Rating and the new men's FIFA rating system is that the latter does not consider goal differential and counts a penalty shoot-out as a win/loss rather than a draw; thus, a 7:0 blowout is considered equal to a 7:6 penalty shoot-out win (neither method distinguishes a win in extra time from a win in regular time). The FIFA method is also less sensitive to the difference in ratings and more sensitive to match status. Finally, World Football Elo Ratings considers all official international matches for which results are available, including those involving \"unaffiliated\" teams that are not a member of FIFA.\n\nThe ratings are based on the following formulae:\n\nwhere\n\nWhere;\n\"Points Change\" is rounded to the nearest integer before updating the team rating. <br>\n\nThe status of the match is incorporated by the use of a weight constant. The constant reflects the importance of a match, which, in turn, is determined entirely by which tournament the match is in; the weight constant for each major tournament is:\n\nThe FIFA adaptation of the Elo rating will feature 8 weights, with the knockout stages in the World Cup weighing 12x more than some friendly matches.\n\nThe number of goals is taken into account by use of a goal difference index.\n\nIf the game is a draw or is won by one goal\n\nIf the game is won by two goals\n\nIf the game is won by three or more goals\n\nTable of examples:\n\nW is the result of the game (1 for a win, 0.5 for a draw, and 0 for a loss). This also holds when a game is won or lost on extra time. If the match is decided on penalties, however, the result of the game is considered a draw (W = 0.5).\n\nW is the expected result (win expectancy with a draw counting as 0.5) from the following formula:\n\nwhere \"dr\" equals the difference in ratings (add 100 points for the home team). So \"dr\" of 0 gives 0.5, of 120 gives 0.666 to the higher-ranked team and 0.334 to the lower, and of 800 gives 0.99 to the higher-ranked team and 0.01 to the lower.\n\nThe FIFA adaptation of the Elo rating does not incorporate a home team advantage and has a larger divisor in the formula (600 vs 400), making the points exchange less sensitive to the rating difference of two teams.\n\nThe same example of a three-team friendly tournament on neutral territory is used as on the FIFA World Rankings page. Beforehand team A had a rating of 630 points, team B 500 points, and teams C 480 points.<br>The first table shows the points allocations based on three possible outcomes of the match between the strongest team A, and the somewhat weaker team B:\n\nWhen the difference in strength between the two teams is less, so also will be the difference in points allocation. The next table illustrates how the points would be divided following the same results as above, but with two roughly equally ranked teams, B and C, being involved:\n\nTeam B drops more points by losing to Team C, which has shown about the same strength, than by losing to Team A, which has been considerably better than Team B.\n\n"}
