{"id": "10610725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10610725", "title": "Abortion in Mexico", "text": "Abortion in Mexico\n\nAbortion in Mexico is a controversial issue. Its legal status varies by state. The procedure is offered on request to any woman with up to twelve weeks into a pregnancy in Mexico City, but is severely restricted in most states. , 138,792 abortions have been carried out in the capital city since its decriminalization (2007). The abortion laws and their enforcement vary by region, but in conservative parts of the country, women are routinely prosecuted and convicted for having abortions: More than 679 women have been convicted for abortion in conservative-leaning states, such as Guanajuato.\n\nIn 1931, fourteen years after the writing of the national Constitution, the Mexican Government addressed abortion by making it illegal, except in the cases when the abortion is caused by the negligence of the mother, continuation of the pregnancy endangers the life of the mother, or in pregnancy resulting from rape.\n\nIn 1974, Mexico introduced the \"Ley General de Población\", a law requiring the government to provide free family planning services in all public health clinics and a National Program for Family Planning to coordinate it. That same year, Mexico amended its Constitution to recognize every Mexican citizen's \"right to freely decide, in a responsible and informed manner, on the number and spacing of their children\".\n\nUp until the 1990s, the Mexican government considerably expanded its family planning services to rural areas and less-developed parts of the country, reducing inequalities in family planning services and contraceptive provision. Contraceptive use doubled from 1976, but the annual rate of increase slowed down in 1992, and has come to a standstill in recent years.\n\nAccording to data provided by the Guttmacher Institute, in 1996, Mexico had the lowest percentage of women in Latin America who underwent an abortion procedure –1 in 40– a rate of 2.5%. In 2009, Mexico’s national abortion rate was at about 38 abortions per 1,000 for women between the ages of 15–44, which is at 3.8%. These rates are important to consider because of Mexico’s stringent anti-abortion laws, and therefore might not be the most accurate representation of the actual data.\n\nOn April 24, 2007, the \"Asamblea Legislativa de Distrito Federal\" or the Legislative Assembly of the Federal District (LAFD) reformed Articles 145 through 148 of the Criminal Code and Article 14 of the Health Code, all dealing with abortion. Forty-six out of the 66 members (from five distinct parties) of the Legislative Assembly of the Federal District approved the new legislation. These changes expanded the previous law, which had allowed legal abortions in four limited circumstances. \nIn Mexico, abortion proceedings fall under local state legislation. A landmark Supreme Court decision in 2008 found no legal impediment to it in the federal Constitution and stated that, \"to affirm that there is an absolute constitutional protection of life in gestation would lead to the violation of the fundamental rights of women\".\n\nAll states' penal codes permit abortions in cases of rape, and all but Guanajuato, Guerrero, and Querétaro's permit it to save the mother's life. Fourteen out of thirty-one expand these cases to include severe fetal deformities, and the state of Yucatán includes economic factors when the mother has previously borne three or more children. Nevertheless, according to Jo Tuckman of \"The Guardian\", in practice, almost no state provides access to abortions in the cases listed. They also prosecute neither the doctors who offer safe illegal abortions nor the cheaper life-threatening backstreet practitioners.\n\nThere are, however, some exceptions. Since 2007, Mexico City, where approximately 7.87% of the national population lives, offers abortion on request to any woman up to 12 weeks into a pregnancy, which, along with Cuba and Uruguay, is one of the most liberal legislations on this matter in Latin America. In contrast, recent political lobbying on behalf of the dominant Roman Catholic Church and pro-life organizations has resulted in the amendment of more than half of the state constitutions, which now define a fertilized human egg as a person with a right to legal protection. , none of those states removed its exceptions to abortion to reflect the changes in its constitution, but according to Human Rights Watch and a local NGO, over the past eight years, the conservative-leaning state of Guanajuato \"has denied every petition by a pregnant rape victim for abortion services\", and about 130 of its residents have been sentenced for seeking or providing illegal abortion. However, these days the government is aware of the existence of the institution called 'Las Libres de Guanajuato' which provides abortions and support for women in need, and ignores its existence.\n\nFollowing the decriminalization of abortions in the \"Distrito Federal\", also known as Mexico City, the states of Baja California and San Luis Potosí enacted laws in 2008 bestowing “personhood” rights from the moment of conception. In September 2011, the Supreme Court rejected two actions to overturn the laws enacted by the states of Baja California and San Luis Potosí for unconstitutionality. The Court recognized \"the power of the state legislature\" to enact laws on the subject. However, their decision does not criminalize or decriminalize abortion in Mexico.\n\nThe Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) recognizes \"the need for access to abortion services in cases where abortion is legal, and calls for a review of the laws where abortion is illegal\". The CEDAW Committee's recommendations to the Mexican State in 2006 specifically mention these issues. CEDAW \"encourages states to enact measures that ensure access to health care for women as a matter of gender equality\". Since Mexico signed the United Nations treaties and conventions, it is bound to above-mentioned standards.\n\nWith the new legislation, the law redefines the term ‘abortion’. An abortion is the legal termination of a pregnancy of 13 weeks of gestation or more. During the first 12 weeks of gestation, the procedure is labeled the ‘legal termination of pregnancy’. In addition, the term ‘pregnancy’ was officially defined as beginning when the embryo is implanted in the endometrium. This helps to determine gestational age, and, according to the research team of Maria Sanchez Fuentes, \"implicitly legitimizes any post-coital contraceptive method, including emergency contraception ... and assisted reproduction (including infertility treatments such as IVF) and stem-cell research\". Women charged with having an illegal abortion have their sentences reduced, and the penalty for forcing a woman to have an abortion against her own will, which includes her partner or a physician, is increased. If physical violence is involved, the penalty is even higher. Furthermore, the law explicitly states that sexual and reproductive health are a priority in health services, with the goal of preventing unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted infections (STIs).\n\nAccording to an unofficial report by the organization \"Grupo de Información en Reproducción Elegida\" (GIRE), between 2009 and 2011, 679 women have charged with the crime of abortion in the interior of the country. In the report, GIRE states that having legislation for each entity makes \"access to abortion a matter of social injustice and gender discrimination.\" According to the \"Omisión e Indiferencia: Derechos reproductivos en México\" (known as Omission and Indifference: Reproductive Rights in Mexico) presented by GIRE, only women with economic resources and information can travel to Mexico City to have an abortion \"without the risk of being persecuted for committing a crime or do it in precarious conditions.\" Although there are no official figures on clandestine abortions in the country, GIRE estimated that in 2009 159,000 women rushed to a hospital for complications of unsafe and illegal abortions.\n\nIn addition, restrictive abortion policies not only limit women's individual agency and autonomy, but force poor women to choose between an unsafe illegal medical procedure, and bearing unwanted children. Thus, such policies create structural social and economic inequality.\n\nResearch done by Maria Sanchez Fuentes et al. concludes that the health and economic costs of unsafe abortion are very high, in common with other preventable illnesses. Moreover, those costs are higher for poor women, because only women with economic means and sufficient information can access abortion under safe medical conditions in Mexico, or travel to foreign countries where abortion is legal throughout. After the amendments to the abortion law in 2007, abortion services are now free of charge in public hospitals for Mexico City residents, which account for approximately one quarter of the country’s population, and available for a moderate fee for women from other states or countries.\n\nBefore the passage of the amendments to the abortion law, many Mexican women would buy herbs from the market and try dangerous home versions of abortion in order to end their unwanted pregnancies Women also resorted to buying prescription drugs, obtained from pharmacists without a doctor’s signature, that would induce an abortion. Moreover, some women even ingested huge doses of drugs for arthritis and gastritis, available over the counter, which can cause miscarriages. All of these methods are significantly dangerous, and most are illegal.\n\nThe fifth leading cause of maternal mortality in Mexico is illegal, unsafe abortion. A huge proportion of poor and young women are forced to risk their health and lives in the conditions under which many clandestine abortions are practiced. \nThis highlights the costs of unsafe abortion to the public-health system. In addition, women who undergo unsafe abortions and suffer complications or death represent the fourth highest cause of hospital admissions in Mexico’s public hospitals. The Ministry of Health statistics show that in Mexico City, maternal mortality has been reduced significantly since the passage of the new law.\n\nDuring 2008, the public health sector, under Mexico City's Ministry of Health, carried out 13,057 legal abortions, compared to 66 abortions between 2002 and 2007, when the legal indications were restricted to the four circumstances of rape, danger to the woman's life and health and congenital\nmalformations. At the end of April 2007, the city's Ministry of Health started providing first trimester abortions free of charge to the estimated 43 percent of women residing in Mexico City with no public health insurance.\n\nA 2008 study funded by the National Population Council (\"CONAPO\"), El Colegio de México and the Guttmacher Institute estimated 880,000 abortions carried out annually, with an average of 33 abortions a year for every 1,000 women between the ages of 15 and 44. However, such studies are speculative —as abortion is highly restricted and reliable data is not readily available— with some estimates ranging as low as 297,000 abortions per year.\n\nBy January 19, 2011, 52,484 abortions have been carried out in Mexico City since its decriminalization in 2007, where some 85 percent of the gynecologists in the city’s public hospitals have declared themselves conscientious objectors. Among the petitioners, 78% were local residents, 21% were living out-of-state and 1% were foreigners from countries such as Germany, Argentina and Canada. As for their age, 0.6% were between 11 and 14, 47.6% were between 18 and 24, 22% between 25 and 29, 13% between 30 and 34 and 2.7% between 40 and 44 years old. More than half were single.\n\nAs of April 2012, roughly 78,544 women had undergone free legal terminations of pregnancy (LTP) without major complications – an average of 15,709 per year since the law passed in 2007. According to the United Nations, more than 500,000 Mexican women seek illegal abortions every year, with more than 2,000 dying from botched or unsafe procedures.\n\nIn the presidential election of 2006, a conservative candidate from the PAN won the election by an \"infinitesimal percentage, and the progressive PRD candidate claimed fraud.\" An article by Sanchez Fuentes et al., suggested that this caused polarization between the two parties and within Mexican society in general. Since the PRD lost the presidential election, but maintained control of the local legislature and Mayor's Office in Mexico City, they demonstrated the differences between the left- and right-wing parties in the reproductive-rights context by supporting the change in the law.\n\nIn 2007, the legal proposal to decriminalize abortion, led by the PRI, was introduced in the Mexico City Legislative Assembly (LAFD). In this Mexico City abortion reform, \"the policy community (including the center-left political parties; the Mexico City government, represented by the Mayor's Office; the local Ministry of Health; and the local Human Rights Ombudsman), along with academics, opinion leaders, and leading scientists, was very much united, and vocal in support of decriminalization\". Mexico City's then-mayor Marcelo Ebrard, from the PRD, declared, \"This is a women's cause, but it is also the city's cause.\" Manifestations of support for the bill came in the form of public announcements by public figures, printed in national newspapers, which are a key means of influencing public opinion and debate in Mexico, as well as via press declarations, and interviews, as suggested by. A public announcement published on April 17, 2007, by the Academy of Bioethics, which outlined why the decriminalization of up to 12 weeks was not contradictory to scientific evidence, affirmed that, \"an embryo at this stage has not developed a cerebral cortex or nerve endings, does not feel pain, and is not a human being or person\". Sanchez Fuentes et al. concluded that this bioethics perspective influenced the discourse surrounding the debate.\n\nKnowing the potential involvement of the Catholic church on this reform, LAFD pitched the debate as a necessary protection for women-particularly poor women. This justification was meant to resonate especially with the largely Catholic population, religious interest groups, and the Catholic healthcare professionals. While public opinion in Mexico City is largely in favor of legal abortion, the negotiation with religious as well as conscientiously objecting doctors and nurses was proven difficult. Their religious faith had a major impact on the negotiation, because of Catholic's view on abortion as a sin.\n\nThe anti-abortion movement in Mexico has been led by the Catholic Church. The Church remains influential in Mexico, and in any discussion of abortion, the government must discuss the reactions and policies of the Church. It is also the Church's influence that has guided the debate towards a health rationale rather than a choice rationale – staying away from a pro-choice stance. After the law was passed in April 2007, the Catholic Church collected\n70,000 signatures supporting an abortion referendum.\n\nUnder Articles 6 and 24, the Mexican constitution protects citizens with freedom of religion in Mexico. During the first few weeks after the law passed in 2007, many doctors and nurses did not partake in abortions due to their faith. The LAFD dealt with the Church's influence on public hospitals and their employees by reinforcing the reforms made in the Robles law (the law permitting abortion to be legal in Federal District (Mexico) and requiring, in Article 14 Bis 6 of the Health Law, that once again hospitals must have non-objecting doctors on call for abortions). The Robles Law uses language that makes it clear that the right to object on religious grounds is not absolute and that the woman's right to receive the abortion trumps the doctor's right to object where no non-objecting doctor can be located. Furthermore, Article 14 Bis 3 established the Clinical Commission for Evaluation to ensure that doctors were performing abortions and that every time a woman requests information about an abortion, it is recorded by an independent, centralized body of the government. Former Secretary of Health, Manuel Mondragon, under the Mayor of Mexico City, Marcelo Ebrard, worked to make sure that abortions were readily available to women who sought them under the legal circumstances. Essentially, the law incorporates a conscientious objection exemption for health care providers, and similarly requires that hospitals then provide a woman with an alternate provider, who will perform the abortion. Furthermore, the separation of church and state is enshrined in the Mexican Reform Laws of 1859. Therefore, the attempt by the Church to influence politics was illegal, and their threat of excommunication was invalid. The major separation of the church and state did not permit for religious reasoning to be the major influence on policies, but the Catholic church threatened to prohibit the individuals supporting the policy from attending any religious sanctions and ceremonies.\n\nAccording to Sanchez Fuentes et al., more than 80 percent of the women who have sought services are Catholic, and formally educated, claiming to help destigmatize abortion, influencing public opinion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30974115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30974115", "title": "Airport racial profiling in the United States", "text": "Airport racial profiling in the United States\n\nAirport racial profiling in the United States is U.S. government activity directed at a suspect or group of suspects because of their race or ethnicity. Under analysis Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution, objective factors measure whether law enforcement action is constitutional, and under the Fourteenth Amendment challenges to the practice are assessed under the customary strict scrutiny test for racial classifications.\n\nSince September 11, 2001, there have been reports on increases in racial profiling at airports, particularly targeting people who appear to be Muslim or of Middle Eastern descent. It has been a routine practice by law enforcement officials to stop individuals who are profiled because of their race and religious and ethnic appearance or who may appear to be \"suspicious\".\n\nIn the weeks following September 11, 2001, federal, state and local law enforcement officials investigated those responsible for the September 11 attacks during which nearly 3,000 people died. They assessed the United States's vulnerability to future acts of terrorism. Investigations showed the suspects of the crime to be of Middle Eastern origin.\n\nIn the wake of the September 11 attacks, US officials responded to the fears of air travelers by reinforcing security. Despite more thorough investigation of baggage and increased security staffing, there were so many vast open spaces, exits and entrances at airport hubs that prevention of incidents was problematic.\n\nLos Angeles International Airport was recently found to be the most vulnerable to infiltration in the US when it comes to smuggling weapons. Knives, guns, and explosives carried by federal undercover inspectors were missed by LA International airport screeners at checkpoints 41% of the time in an airport security test. The test, which checked security at America's 32 biggest airports, was carried out in June by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), which assumed responsibility for airport security.\n\nA 2009 study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences asserted that, due to terrorists being vastly outnumbered by innocents, racial profiling is no more effective than random profiling. It has also been claimed that any form of profiling is less secure than random profiling, because a terrorist cell can simply have a number of members go through airport security, until one is reliably not profiled, then use that individual to perform an attack. None of the 19 successful hijackers in the September 11 attacks were reported or even remembered by checkpoint supervisors.\n\nMichael Kinsley asked in a 2001 article for \"Slate\" magazine if a rational reason exists to single out Arabic-looking men at airport.\n\nKing Downing, the national coordinator of the American Civil Liberties Union's Campaign Against Airport Racial Profiling, says he was the victim of profiling by police at Logan International Airport in Boston, MA. He was going to the federal court to challenge a screening technique used around the country that looks at suspicious behavior patterns to identify potential terrorists. Downing alleges he was stopped and questioned by state police after arriving on a flight to attend a meeting on racial profiling. He has sued the Massachusetts Port Authority, which operates the airport, and the Massachusetts State Police, citing they violated his constitutional rights. Downing, who is black and wears a short beard, believes he was targeted because of his race. In his lawsuit, Downing alleges the behavioral screening system used at Logan Airport encourages racial profiling. His lawsuit also seeks a ruling to declare airport racial profiling as unconstitutional.\n\nIn 2002, after the September 11 attack on the US, Logan Airport began a program called \"Behavior Assessment Screening System\" which allows police to question passengers whose behavior appears to be \"suspicious\". Logan was the first airport in the country to use the system. The plausibility of any benefit from \"Behavior Assessment\" has been questioned in a 2012 study by G. Stuart Mendenhall and Mark Schmidhofer of the Cato Institute.\n\nThe Fourth Amendment provides that \"the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated\". In its 1968 Fourth Amendment ruling, Terry v. Ohio, the U.S. Supreme Court found that reasonable, articulable suspicion was sufficient grounds for a police officer to briefly stop and question a citizen. They ruled that such suspicion must not be based on the officer's \"inchoate and unparticularized suspicion or 'hunch,' but on the specific reasonable inferences which he is entitled to draw from the facts in light of his experience\". Terry employed a \"totality of circumstances\" test to determine the reasonableness of police investigatory stops.\n\nThe Obama administration's decision to heighten airport security for passengers while traveling to the US from 14 nations triggered a backlash of complaints from Muslim and privacy groups who say President Barack Obama's response to terror threats amounted to little more than racial profiling.\n\nFrank Cilluffo, former special assistant for Homeland Security under then-President George W. Bush, said \"airports need to be 'profiling' based on behavior even though it's a 'dirty word.'\"\n\nA 2010 poll by \"USA Today\" showed Americans were in favor of more intensive security check for people who fit a profile of a terrorist based on age, ethnicity and gender.\n"}
{"id": "30170225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30170225", "title": "Al-Mahdi Ali", "text": "Al-Mahdi Ali\n\nAl-Mahdi Ali bin Mohammed (September 25, 1305 - 1372) was an imam of the Zaidi state in Yemen who ruled in 1349-1372.\n\nThe Yemeni imamate in the highlands was often contested by rival claimants in this era. Ali bin Muhammad al-Hosni was born in the village al-Ahani in the Sa'dah area in northern Yemen. He was not closely related to the recent imams, but an 11th-generation descendant of the imam ad-Da'i Yusuf. As a young man, Ali received a good deal of instruction in the religious sciences. In 1346, the learned and powerful Imam al-Mu'ayyad Yahya died, and no politically strong figure emerged in his stead. Under these circumstances, Ali rose to power from his base in the mountain fortress Thula in 1349. In the presence of a numerous congregation of Zaidi scholars, he adopted the title al-Mahdi Ali and took possession of Sa'dah and Dhamar. At this time, San'a was dominated by two Zaidi emirs and brothers called Ibrahim bin Abdallah and Da'ud bin Abdallah. Al-Mahdi Ali laid siege to the city. However, the brothers held firm and after six months he had to lift the siege and return to Thula.\n\nDuring his 23 years long reign, al-Mahdi Ali was nevertheless able to amass considerable political influence in Yemen. The powerful Rasulid Dynasty ruled the lowlands, but its grip on the northern inland had been shattered since some time. The Rasulid emir of Hadar, Nur ad-Din Muhammad bin Mika'il, turned rebellious against Sultan al-Mujahid Ali in 1359. In the next year, he sought support from the Zaidi elite of Sa'dah. Nur ad-Din entertained plans to take over the sultanate. Over the following years, he organized several raids into Rasulid territory with Zaidi assistance, with mixed success. Al-Mahdi Ali bestowed the fortress Miftah as an appanage, and the rebel resided there until his demise in 1377. Al-Mahdi Ali himself died in Dhamar in 1372, after his authority had begun to recede. His body was carried to Sa'dah to be buried there. He was succeeded by his son an-Nasir Muhammad Salah ad-Din.\n\n"}
{"id": "23408045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23408045", "title": "Altai Uriankhai", "text": "Altai Uriankhai\n\nThe Altai Uriankhai (, \"Altain Urianhai\" or \"Altai-yn Urianhai\"; ) refer to a Mongolian tribe around the Altai Mountains that were organized by the Qing dynasty. They now form a subgroup in western Mongolia and eastern Xinjiang. \n\nThe Uriyangkhai or Uriankhai people first appeared in the 7th century as one of the people in Mongolia (Legend of the Erkune kun). The Mongolian term Uriankhai (Uriyangkhai) had been applied to all Samoyed, Turkic or Mongol people to the north-west of Mongolia in the 17th century. The Uriyangkhai in this sense were first subjugated by the Khotgoid Khalkha and then by the Dzungars.\n\nIn the mid 14th century, they lived in Liaoyang province of modern China. After the rebellion of the northern Uriankhai people, they were conquered by Dayan Khan in 1538 and mostly annexed by the northern Khalkha. \n\nSecond group of Uriankhai (Uriankhai of the Khentii Mountains) lived in central Mongolia and they started moving to the Altai Mountains in beginning 16th century. Some groups migrated to Khövsgöl Province during the course of the Northern Yuan dynasty (1368-1691).\n\nWith the fall of the Dzungar Khanate, the Qing dynasty in 1757 organized the far northern frontier into a series of Uriankhai banners: the Khövsgöl Nuur Uriyangkhai, Tannu Uriankhai, Kemchik, Salchak, and Toju and Altan-nuur Uriyangkhai.\n\nIn the Altai Range, 7 Altai Uriankhai banners were established into two wings attached to Qing ambans. Their territory included eastern Khovd Province and Khövsgöl Province. Most were Oirat Mongolian speakers with Oirat, Buriat, or Mongolian clan names, but some were Tuvan speakers. \n\nIn the aftermath of the Dungan revolt (1864-77), the Kazakhs migrated into Altai Uriankhai territory. In 1906, the Qing court transferred Altai Uriankhai banner from Khovd's jurisdiction to the new Altai district, with its capital Chenghua. In 1913, the district was divided between Boghda Khaanate of Mongolia and the Chinese province of Xinjiang, leaving some Uriankhais in far northwestern Xinjiang. The Altai Uriankhai in Mongolia were attached to the Dorbeds. However, the Altai Uriankhai and the Kazakhs formed Bayan-Ölgii Province in 1940. Notable Altayin Uriyankhgai people include Damchaa .B, the movie actor and the specialist in Esperanto of Mongolia.\n"}
{"id": "30991197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30991197", "title": "Armenian Sign Language", "text": "Armenian Sign Language\n\nArmenian Sign Language is the deaf sign language of Armenia. It is not known if it bears any relationship to Caucasian Sign Language, which was used by Armenian women during periods of mourning because of speech taboos.\n\nWittmann (1991) posits that ArSL is a language isolate (a 'prototype' sign language). \n"}
{"id": "21567648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21567648", "title": "Aymeric Picaud", "text": "Aymeric Picaud\n\nAymeric Picaud was a 12th-century French scholar, monk and pilgrim from Parthenay-le-Vieux in Poitou. He is most widely known today as being the suspected author of the Codex Calixtinus, an illuminated manuscript giving background information for pilgrims travelling the Way of St. James. In essence, he wrote one of the earliest known tourist guidebooks.\n\nAmong Basque scholars, Amyeric's account of his journey to Santiago de Compostela (around the year 1140) is considered as highly important because it contains some of the earliest Basque words and phrases of the post-Roman period.\n\nThe words and phrases he recorded are:\n\n"}
{"id": "37322122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37322122", "title": "Bangwaketse", "text": "Bangwaketse\n\nThe Bangwaketse (also known as the BaNgwaketse, or Ngwaketse) are one of the eight principal tribes in Botswana, and are ethnic Tswana. (The \"Ba\" or \"Bo\" prefix in African tribal names in southern Africa means \"people of\" or \"people who speak\". \"Ma\" means \"person of\".) Kanye is the original Bangwaketse village located in the Southern District settled in 1853, originally called Ntsweng Hill. The king of the tribe is King Malope II, son of Seepapitso IV. The Bangwaketse people live in the arid mountainous region of Southern Botswana mentioned in the book \"Cherub: Guardian Angel\". It is bordered by Moshupa, Lobatse, Jwaneng and is a 45-minute drive from Gaborone, the capital city of Botswana. The town is served by Kanye Airport.\n\nA documentary on the Bangwaketse royal family was filmed in 2003–2005: \"The Queen's Courtyard\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56135961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56135961", "title": "Catalyst transfer polymerization", "text": "Catalyst transfer polymerization\n\nCatalyst transfer polymerization (CTP), or Catalyst Transfer Polycondensation, is a type of living chain-growth polymerization that is used for synthesizing conjugated polymers. Benefits to using CTP over other methods are lower polydispersity and greater control over number average molecular weight in the resulting polymer sample, but very few monomers have been demonstrated to undergo CTP. \n\nThe first reports of CTP came simultaneously from the labs of Yokozawa and McCullough in 2004, with the recognition that polythiophene can be synthesized with low dispersity and control over molecular weight when a grignard thiophene monomer was polymerized with Nickel(1,2-bis(diphenylphosphino)ethane)dichloride. This recognition sparked interest in the system, and its expansion to other monomers. Despite major advances in the field, relatively few polymers can be synthesized via CTP because the lack of a \"universal CTP catalyst\" means that every monomer must be paired with a different catalyst in order to obtain ideal living chain-growth behavior. This need to pair monomers to catalysts means most conjugated polymers are synthesized via palladium catalyzed step-growth polycondensation cross-coupling reactions.\n\nCTP is exclusively performed on arene monomers to give conjugated polymers. The polymers obtained from a true CTP are often low dispersity and contain consistent end groups (two on each chain, one put on the polymer chain end during initiation, and the other put on during termination). These result from the fact that CTP is a living, chain growth polymerization, and mean that the average molecular weight of the polymers from a CTP reaction can be tuned by changing the relative amounts of catalyst and monomer at the start of the reaction. \n\nCTP is thought to be important in that control over molecular weight (imparted by CTP) means control over conjugation length in conjugated polymers. Average conjugation length of a conjugated polymer can have a large impact in applications such as solar cells and transistors, both fields that are starting to use organic electronics. \n\nCTP is closely related to many group 10 metal catalyzed cross coupling reactions (see \"Mechanism\" below), and often, monomers used in CTP contain magnesium-, zinc-, boron-, and tin-based transmetallating groups, giving rise to Kumada CTP (K-CTP), Negishi CTP (N-CTP), Suzuki CTP (B-CTP), and Stille CTP (S-CTP) reactions, respectively. \n\nThe mechanism of CTP has been debated. The living chain-growth nature of CTP can be explained by the existence of a π-complex (as described in this section) but can also be explained via polymer reactivity. A common feature of both pathways is their similarity to other nickel and palladium catalyzed cross-coupling reactions.\n\nInitiation from a nickel(II) species involves two monomers transmetalating onto the nickel center to form a complex that can easily undergo reductive elimination. The complex formed after reductive elimination is characterized by the metal, now nickel(0), bound to the π system of the monomer. This π-complex means that the catalysts is not free to dissociate and start polymer chains, forcing monomers to add to the growing chain. The catalyst migrates, via ring-walking, to the π-bond adjacent to the C-X bond at the end of the dimer, allowing oxidative addition to occur, forming the active polymer-nickel(II)-bromide catalyst.\n\nThe propagation steps of CTP occurs through a similar cycle of transmetalation, reductive elimination, ring walking, and oxidative addition. The existence of a π-complex allows for the polymerization to be controlled as it ensures that the catalyst cannot dissociate from the polymer chain (and start new chains). This means that the number of polymer chains at the end of the polymerization should be equal to the number of catalysts in solution and that the average degree of polymerization in the sample at the end of polymerization should be equal to the ratio of monomers to catalysts in solution (e.g. if there are 50 equivalents of monomer to one equivalent of catalyst, most of the polymers at the end of polymerization will have 50 repeat units).\n\nA characteristic of a true CTP is living growth character, meaning that once all monomer has been converted, addition of more monomer to the polymerization should result in monomers being added to the end of polymer chains (rather than starting new chains). This should be true of CTP, but the organometallic nature of the polymer chain end (being capped with the nickel catalyst after C-X oxidative addition), means that if the polymerization is allowed to go to high conversion, disproportionation occurs between two chain ends forming polymers with an integer multiple of the expected molecular weight. For this reason, when CTP is used to make polymers of a specific molecular weight, the polymerization is terminated early by addition of strong acid, iodine, or bromine.\n\nAdditionally, if the π-complex is too weakly bound, termination of polymer chains can occur if a chain transfer agent (i.e. solvent, monomer, polymer, any species that can bind to the catalyst) displaces the catalyst from its polymer chain, poisoning the catalyst or starting new chains. This gives polymers with lower than expected average molecular weight.\n\nCurrent research into CTP focuses on finding catalysts that form strong catalyst-polymer π-complexes such that the polymerization remains living.\n\nSuccess of CTP is often evaluated using gel permeation chromatography, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and gas chromatography. GPC characterization allows for determination of average molecular weight and whether disproportionation has occurred (evidenced by multiple peaks in the GPC trace at different, integer multiple molecular weights of the lowest molecular weight peak). MALDI and NMR allow for identification of end groups of the polymer chain, which can help to elucidate if the polymerization is living. And GC allows for determination of conversion, and can be used in conjunction with other methods to create a molecular weight vs. monomer conversion plot. \n\nIn theory, the chain growth nature of CTP can be described without invoking a catalyst-polymer π-complex. If we assume that no π-complex forms and instead every time a monomer was added to a polymer, the polymer becomes more reactive, we would also see chain growth since the largest polymers in the reaction would be the most reactive and would react with monomers preferentially. The difference between these two explanations of chain-growth can be elucidated by studying the presence of end groups of the polymers using mass spectrometry.\n\nThe monomer scope of CTP is limited, but a non-exhaustive list of the polymers that can be synthesized using CTP are below:\n"}
{"id": "39755927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39755927", "title": "Chechens in France", "text": "Chechens in France\n\nChechens in France is a small diaspora in France but one of the most important groups in the Chechen diaspora.\n\nThe Chechen immigrants came in France at the early 2000s, because of the two Chechen Wars. They came as political refugees. Today, there are approximately 30,000 Chechens in France, and 60,000 in the European Union.\n"}
{"id": "22623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22623", "title": "Combined oral contraceptive pill", "text": "Combined oral contraceptive pill\n\nThe combined oral contraceptive pill (COCP), often referred to as the birth control pill or colloquially as \"the pill\", is a type of birth control that is designed to be taken orally by women. It includes a combination of an estrogen (usually ethinylestradiol) and a progestogen (specifically a progestin). When taken correctly, it alters the menstrual cycle to eliminate ovulation and prevent pregnancy.\n\nThey were first approved for contraceptive use in the United States in 1960, and are a very popular form of birth control. They are currently used by more than 100 million women worldwide and by almost 12 million women in the United States. As of 2012, 16% of U.S. women aged 15–44 reported being on the birth control pill, making it the most widely used contraceptive method among women of that age range. Use varies widely by country, age, education, and marital status. One third of women aged 16–49 in the United Kingdom currently use either the combined pill or progestogen-only pill,\ncompared with only 1% of women in Japan.\n\nTwo forms of combined oral contraceptives are on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system. The pill was a catalyst for the sexual revolution.\n\nCombined oral contraceptive pills are a type of oral medication that is designed to be taken every day, at the same time of day, in order to prevent pregnancy. There are many different formulations or brands, but the average pack is designed to be taken over a 28-day period, or cycle. For the first 21 days of the cycle, users take a daily pill that contains hormones (estrogen and progestogen). The last 7 days of the cycle are hormone free days. Some packets only contain 21 pills and users are then advised to take no pills for the following week. Other packets contain 7 additional placebo pills, or biologically inactive pills. Some newer formulations have 24 days of active hormone pills, followed by 4 days of placebo (examples include Yaz 28 and Loestrin 24 Fe) or even 84 days of active hormone pills, followed by 7 days of placebo pills (Seasonale). A woman on the pill will have a withdrawal bleed sometime during her placebo pill or no pill days, and is still protected from pregnancy during this time. Then after 28 days, or 91 days depending on which type a person is using, users start a new pack and a new cycle.\n\nIf used exactly as instructed, the estimated risk of getting pregnant is 0.3%, or about 3 in 1000 women on COCPs will become pregnant within one year. However, typical use is often not exact due to timing errors, forgotten pills, or unwanted side effects. With typical use, the estimated risk of getting pregnant is about 9%, or about 9 in 100 women on COCP will become pregnant in one year. The perfect use failure rate is based on a review of pregnancy rates in clinical trials, the typical use failure rate is based on a weighted average of estimates from the 1995 and 2002 U.S. National Surveys of Family Growth (NSFG), corrected for underreporting of abortions.\n\nSeveral factors account for typical use effectiveness being lower than perfect use effectiveness:\nFor instance, someone using oral forms of hormonal birth control might be given incorrect information by a health care provider as to the frequency of intake, forget to take the pill one day, or simply not go to the pharmacy on time to renew the prescription.\n\nCOCPs provide effective contraception from the very first pill if started within five days of the beginning of the menstrual cycle (within five days of the first day of menstruation). If started at any other time in the menstrual cycle, COCPs provide effective contraception only after 7 consecutive days use of active pills, so a backup method of contraception (such as condoms) must be used until active pills have been taken for 7 consecutive days. COCPs should be taken at approximately the same time every day.\n\nThe effectiveness of the combined oral contraceptive pill appears to be similar whether the active pills are taken continuously for prolonged periods of time or if they are taken for 21 active days and 7 days as placebo.\n\nContraceptive efficacy may be impaired by:\n\n\nIn any of these instances, a back up method should be used until consistent use of active pills (for 7 consecutive days) has resumed, the interacting drug has been discontinued or illness has been resolved.\n\nAccording to CDC guidelines, a pill is only considered 'missed' if 24 hours or more have passed since the last pill taken. If less than 24 hours have passed, the pill is considered \"late.\"\n\nThe role of the placebo pills is two-fold: to allow the user to continue the routine of taking a pill every day and to simulate the average menstrual cycle. By continuing to take a pill everyday, users remain in the daily habit even during the week without hormones. Failure to take pills during the placebo week does not impact the effectiveness of the pill, provided that daily ingestion of active pills is resumed at the end of the week.\n\nThe placebo, or hormone-free, week in the 28-day pill package simulates an average menstrual cycle, though the hormonal events during a pill cycle are significantly different from those of a normal ovulatory menstrual cycle. Because the pill suppresses ovulation (to be discussed more in the Mechanism of Action section), birth control users do not have true menstrual periods. Instead, it is the lack of hormones for a week that causes a withdrawal bleed. The withdrawal bleeding that occurs during the break from active pills has been thought to be reassuring, a physical confirmation of not being pregnant. The withdrawal bleeding is also predictable. Unexpected breakthrough bleeding can be a possible side effect of longer term active regimens.\n\nSince it is not uncommon for menstruating women to become anemic, some placebo pills may contain an iron supplement. This replenishes iron stores that may become depleted during menstruation.\n\nIf the pill formulation is monophasic, meaning each hormonal pill contains a fixed dose of hormones, it is possible to skip withdrawal bleeding and still remain protected against conception by skipping the placebo pills altogether and starting directly with the next packet. Attempting this with bi- or tri-phasic pill formulations carries an increased risk of breakthrough bleeding and may be undesirable. It will not, however, increase the risk of getting pregnant.\n\nStarting in 2003, women have also been able to use a three-month version of the pill. Similar to the effect of using a constant-dosage formulation and skipping the placebo weeks for three months, Seasonale gives the benefit of less frequent periods, at the potential drawback of breakthrough bleeding. Seasonique is another version in which the placebo week every three months is replaced with a week of low-dose estrogen.\n\nA version of the combined pill has also been packaged to completely eliminate placebo pills and withdrawal bleeds. Marketed as Anya or Lybrel, studies have shown that after seven months, 71% of users no longer had any breakthrough bleeding, the most common side effect of going longer periods of time without breaks from active pills.\n\nWhile more research needs to be done to assess the long term safety of using COCP's continuously, studies have shown no difference in short term adverse effects when comparing continuous use versus cyclic use of birth control pills.\n\nThe hormones in the pill have also been used to treat other medical conditions, such as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), endometriosis, adenomyosis, acne, hirsutism, amenorrhea, menstrual cramps, menstrual migraines, menorrhagia (excessive menstrual bleeding), menstruation-related or fibroid-related anemia and dysmenorrhea (painful menstruation). Besides acne, no oral contraceptives have been approved by the U.S. FDA for the previously mentioned uses despite extensive use for these conditions.\n\nPCOS, or polycystic ovary syndrome, is a syndrome that is caused by hormonal imbalances. Women with PCOS often have higher than normal levels of estrogen all the time because their hormonal cycles are not regular. Over time, high levels of uninhibited estrogen can lead to endometrial hyperplasia, or overgrowth of tissue in the uterus. This overgrowth is more likely to become cancerous than normal endometrial tissue. Thus, although the data varies, it is generally agreed upon by most gynecological societies that due to the high estrogen levels that women with PCOS have, they are at higher risk for endometrial hyperplasia. To reduce this risk, it is often recommended that women with PCOS take hormonal contraceptives to regulate their hormones. Both COCPs and progestin-only methods are recommended. COCPs are preferred in women who also suffer from uncontrolled acne and symptoms of hirsutism, or male patterned hair growth, because COCPs can help treats these symptoms.\n\nFor pelvic pain associated with endometriosis, COCPs are considered a first-line medical treatment, along with NSAIDs, GnRH agonists, and aromatase inhibitors. COCPs work to suppress the growth of the extra-uterine endometrial tissue. This works to lessen its inflammatory effects. COCPs, along with the other medical treatments listed above, do not eliminate the extra-uterine tissue growth, they just reduce the symptoms. Surgery is the only definitive treatment. Studies looking at rates of pelvic pain reoccurrence after surgery have shown that continuous use of COCPs is more effective at reducing the recurrence of pain than cyclic use\n\nSimilar to endometriosis, adenomyosis is often treated with COCPs to suppress the growth the endometrial tissue that has grown into the myometrium. Unlike endometriosis however, levonorgetrel containing IUDs are more effective at reducing pelvic pain in adenomyosis than COCPs.\n\nOral contraceptives are sometimes prescribed as medication for mild or moderate acne, although none are approved by the U.S. FDA for that sole purpose. Three different oral contraceptives have been FDA approved to treat moderate acne if the person is at least 14 or 15 years old, have already begun menstruating, and need contraception. They include Ortho Tri-Cyclen, Estrostep, and YAZ.\n\nAlthough the pill is sometimes prescribed to induce menstruation on a regular schedule for women bothered by irregular menstrual cycles, it actually suppresses the normal menstrual cycle and then mimics a regular 28-day monthly cycle.\n\nWomen who are experiencing menstrual dysfunction due to female athlete triad are sometimes prescribed oral contraceptives as pills that can create menstrual bleeding cycles. However, the condition's underlying cause is energy deficiency and should be treated by correcting the imbalance between calories eaten and calories burned by exercise. Oral contraceptives should not be used as an initial treatment for female athlete triad.\n\nWhile combined oral contraceptives are generally considered to be a relatively safe medication, they are contraindicated for people with certain medical conditions. Estrogen in high doses can increase a person's risk for blood clots. Current formulations of COCP's do not contain doses high enough to increase the absolute risk of thrombotic events in otherwise healthy people, but people with any pre-existing medical condition that also increases their risk for blood clots makes using COCPs more dangerous. These conditions include but are not limited to high blood pressure, pre-existing cardiovascular disease, history of thromboembolism or pulmonary embolism, cerebrovascular accident, migraine with aura, a familial tendency to form blood clots (such as familial factor V Leiden), and in smokers over age 35.\n\nCOCPs are also contraindicated for people with advanced diabetes, liver tumors, hepatic adenoma or severe cirrhosis of the liver. COCPs are metabolized in the liver and thus liver disease can lead to reduced elimination of the medication. People with known or suspected breast cancer or unexplained uterine bleeding should also not take COCPs.\n\nWomen who are known to be pregnant should not take COCPs. Postpartum women who are breastfeeding are also advised not to start COCPs until 4 weeks after birth due to increased risk of blood clots. Severe hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia are also currently contraindications, but the evidence showing that COCP's lead to worse outcomes in this population is weak. Obesity is not considered to be a contraindication to taking COCPs .\n\nIt is generally accepted that the health risks of oral contraceptives are lower than those from pregnancy and birth, and \"the health benefits of any method of contraception are far greater than any risks from the method\". Some organizations have argued that comparing a contraceptive method to no method (pregnancy) is not relevant—instead, the comparison of safety should be among available methods of contraception.\n\nDifferent sources note different incidences of side effects. The most common side effect is breakthrough bleeding. A 1992 French review article said that as many as 50% of new first-time users discontinue the birth control pill before the end of the first year because of the annoyance of side effects such as breakthrough bleeding and amenorrhea. One study found that women using birth control pills blinked 32% more often than those not using the contraception.\n\nOn the other hand, the pills can sometimes improve conditions such as pelvic inflammatory disease, dysmenorrhea, premenstrual syndrome, and acne, reduce symptoms of endometriosis and polycystic ovary syndrome, and decrease the risk of anemia. Use of oral contraceptives also reduces lifetime risk of ovarian cancer.\n\nNausea, vomiting, headache, bloating, breast tenderness, swelling of the ankles/feet (fluid retention), or weight change may occur. Vaginal bleeding between periods (spotting) or missed/irregular periods may occur, especially during the first few months of use.\n\nCombined oral contraceptives increase the risk of venous thromboembolism (including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE)).\n\nCOC pills with more than 50 µg of estrogen increase the risk of ischemic stroke and myocardial infarction but lower doses appear safe. These risks are greatest in women with additional risk factors, such as smoking (which increases risk substantially) and long-continued use of the pill, especially in women over 35 years of age.\n\nThe overall absolute risk of venous thrombosis per 100,000 woman-years in current use of combined oral contraceptives is approximately 60, compared with 30 in non-users. The risk of thromboembolism varies with different types of birth control pills; compared with combined oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel (LNG), and with the same dose of estrogen and duration of use, the rate ratio of deep venous thrombosis for combined oral contraceptives with norethisterone is 0.98, with norgestimate 1.19, with desogestrel (DSG) 1.82, with gestodene 1.86, with drospirenone (DRSP) 1.64, and with cyproterone acetate 1.88. In comparison, venous thromboembolism occurs in 100–200 per 100.000 pregnant women every year.\n\nOne study showed more than a 600% increased risk of blood clots for women taking COCPs with drospirenone compared with non-users, compared with 360% higher for women taking birth control pills containing levonorgestrel. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) initiated studies evaluating the health of more than 800,000 women taking COCPs and found that the risk of VTE was 93% higher for women who had been taking drospirenone COCPs for 3 months or less and 290% higher for women taking drospirenone COCPs for 7–12 months, compared with women taking other types of oral contraceptives.\n\nBased on these studies, in 2012 the FDA updated the label for drospirenone COCPs to include a warning that contraceptives with drospirenone may have a higher risk of dangerous blood clots.\n\nA systematic review in 2010 did not support an increased overall cancer risk in users of combined oral contraceptive pills, but did find a slight increase in breast cancer risk among current users, which disappears 5–10 years after use has stopped.\n\nCOC decreased the risk of ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer, and colorectal cancer. Two large cohort studies published in 2010 both found a significant reduction in adjusted relative risk of ovarian and endometrial cancer mortality in ever-users of OCs compared with never-users.\n\nThe use of oral contraceptives (birth control pills) for five years or more decreases the risk of ovarian cancer in later life by 50%. Combined oral contraceptive use reduces the risk of ovarian cancer by 40% and the risk of endometrial cancer by 50% compared with never users. The risk reduction increases with duration of use, with an 80% reduction in risk for both ovarian and endometrial cancer with use for more than 10 years. The risk reduction for both ovarian and endometrial cancer persists for at least 20 years.\n\nA report by a 2005 International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) working group said COCs increase the risk of cancers of the breast (among current and recent users), cervix and liver (among populations at low risk of hepatitis B virus infection). A 2013 meta-analysis concluded that every use of birth control pills is associated with a modest increase in the risk of breast cancer (relative risk 1.08) and a reduced risk of colorectal cancer (relative risk 0.86) and endometrial cancer (relative risk 0.57). Cervical cancer risk in those infected with human papilloma virus is increased. A similar small increase in breast cancer risk was seen in other meta analyses.\n\nA 2011 Cochrane systematic review found that studies of combination hormonal contraceptives showed no large difference in weight when compared with placebo or no intervention groups. The evidence was not strong enough to be certain that contraceptive methods do not cause some weight change, but no major effect was found. This review also found \"that women did not stop using the pill or patch because of weight change.\"\n\nCOCPs may increase natural vaginal lubrication. Other women experience reductions in libido while on the pill, or decreased lubrication. Some researchers question a causal link between COCP use and decreased libido; a 2007 study of 1700 women found COCP users experienced no change in sexual satisfaction. A 2005 laboratory study of genital arousal tested fourteen women before and after they began taking COCPs. The study found that women experienced a significantly wider range of arousal responses after beginning pill use; decreases and increases in measures of arousal were equally common.\n\nA 2006 study of 124 pre-menopausal women measured sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), including before and after discontinuation of the oral contraceptive pill. Women continuing use of oral contraceptives had SHBG levels four times higher than those who never used it, and levels remained elevated even in the group that had discontinued its use. Theoretically, an increase in SHBG may be a physiologic response to increased hormone levels, but may decrease the free levels of other hormones, such as androgens, because of the unspecificity of its sex hormone binding.\n\nA 2007 study found the pill can have a negative effect on sexual attractiveness: scientists found that lapdancers who were in estrus received much more in tips than those who weren't, while those on the oral contraceptive pill had no such earnings peak.\n\nLow levels of serotonin, a neurotransmitter in the brain, have been linked to depression. High levels of estrogen, as in first-generation COCPs, and progestin, as in some progestin-only contraceptives, have been shown to lower the brain serotonin levels by increasing the concentration of a brain enzyme that reduces serotonin. A growing body of research evidence has suggested that hormonal contraception may have an adverse effect on women's psychological health. In 2016, a large Danish study of one million women (followed-up from January 2000 to December 2013) showed that use of COCPs, especially among adolescents, was associated with a statistically significantly increased risk of subsequent depression, although the sizes of the effects are small (for example, 2.1% of the women who took any form of oral birth control were prescribed anti-depressants for the first time, compared to 1.7% of women in the control group). Similarly, in 2018, the findings from a large nationwide Swedish cohort study investigating the effect of hormonal contraception on mental health amongst women (n=815,662, aged 12–30) were published, highlighting an association between hormonal contraception and subsequent use of psychotropic drugs for women of reproductive age. This association was particularly large for young adolescents (aged 12–19). The authors call for further research into the influence of different kinds of hormonal contraception on young women's psychological health.\n\nProgestin-only contraceptives are known to worsen the condition of women who are already depressed. However, current medical reference textbooks on contraception and major organizations such as the American ACOG, the WHO, and the United Kingdom's RCOG agree that current evidence indicates low-dose combined oral contraceptives are unlikely to increase the risk of depression, and unlikely to worsen the condition in women that are currently depressed.\n\nBradykinin lowers blood pressure by causing blood vessel dilation. Certain enzymes are capable of breaking down bradykinin (Angiotensin Converting Enzyme, Aminopeptidase P). Progesterone can increase the levels of Aminopeptidase P (AP-P), thereby increasing the breakdown of bradykinin, which increases the risk of developing hypertension.\n\nOther side effects associated with low-dose COCPs are leukorrhea (increased vaginal secretions), reductions in menstrual flow, mastalgia (breast tenderness), and decrease in acne. Side effects associated with older high-dose COCPs include nausea, vomiting, increases in blood pressure, and melasma (facial skin discoloration); these effects are not strongly associated with low-dose formulations.\n\nExcess estrogen, such as from birth control pills, appears to increase cholesterol levels in bile and decrease gallbladder movement, which can lead to gallstones. Progestins found in certain formulations of oral contraceptive pills can limit the effectiveness of weight training to increase muscle mass. This effect is caused by the ability of some progestins to inhibit androgen receptors. One study claims that the pill may affect what male body odors a woman prefers, which may in turn influence her selection of partner. Use of combined oral contraceptives is associated with a reduced risk of endometriosis, giving a relative risk of endometriosis of 0.63 during active use, yet with limited quality of evidence according to a systematic review.\n\nCombined oral contraception decreases total testosterone levels by approximately 0.5 nmol/l, free testosterone by approximately 60%, and increases the amount of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) by approximately 100 nmol/l. Contraceptives containing second generation progestins and/or estrogen doses of around 20 –25 mg EE were found to have less impact on SHBG concentrations. Combined oral contraception may also reduce bone density.\n\nSome drugs reduce the effect of the pill and can cause breakthrough bleeding, or increased chance of pregnancy. These include drugs such as rifampicin, barbiturates, phenytoin and carbamazepine. In addition cautions are given about broad spectrum antibiotics, such as ampicillin and doxycycline, which may cause problems \"by impairing the bacterial flora responsible for recycling ethinylestradiol from the large bowel\" (BNF 2003).\n\nThe traditional medicinal herb St John's Wort has also been implicated due to its upregulation of the P450 system in the liver.\n\nCombined oral contraceptive pills were developed to prevent ovulation by suppressing the release of gonadotropins. Combined hormonal contraceptives, including COCPs, inhibit follicular development and prevent ovulation as a primary mechanism of action.\n\nProgestogen negative feedback decreases the pulse frequency of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release by the hypothalamus, which decreases the secretion of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and greatly decreases the secretion of luteinizing hormone (LH) by the anterior pituitary. Decreased levels of FSH inhibit follicular development, preventing an increase in estradiol levels. Progestogen negative feedback and the lack of estrogen positive feedback on LH secretion prevent a mid-cycle LH surge. Inhibition of follicular development and the absence of an LH surge prevent ovulation.\n\nEstrogen was originally included in oral contraceptives for better cycle control (to stabilize the endometrium and thereby reduce the incidence of breakthrough bleeding), but was also found to inhibit follicular development and help prevent ovulation. Estrogen negative feedback on the anterior pituitary greatly decreases the secretion of FSH, which inhibits follicular development and helps prevent ovulation.\n\nAnother primary mechanism of action of all progestogen-containing contraceptives is inhibition of sperm penetration through the cervix into the upper genital tract (uterus and fallopian tubes) by decreasing the water content and increasing the viscosity of the cervical mucus.\n\nThe estrogen and progestogen in COCPs have other effects on the reproductive system, but these have not been shown to contribute to their contraceptive efficacy:\n\nInsufficient evidence exists on whether changes in the endometrium could actually prevent implantation. The primary mechanisms of action are so effective that the possibility of fertilization during COCP use is very small. Since pregnancy occurs despite endometrial changes when the primary mechanisms of action fail, endometrial changes are unlikely to play a significant role, if any, in the observed effectiveness of COCPs.\n\nOral contraceptives come in a variety of formulations, some containing both estrogen and progestins, and some only containing progestin. Doses of component hormones also vary among products, and some pills are monophasic (delivering the same dose of hormones each day) while others are multiphasic (doses vary each day).\n\nCOCPs have been somewhat inconsistently grouped into \"generations\" in the medical literature based on when they were introduced.\n\nBy the 1930s, Andriy Stynhach had isolated and determined the structure of the steroid hormones and found that high doses of androgens, estrogens or progesterone inhibited ovulation,\nbut obtaining these hormones, which were produced from animal extracts, from European pharmaceutical companies was extraordinarily expensive.\n\nIn 1939, Russell Marker, a professor of organic chemistry at Pennsylvania State University, developed a method of synthesizing progesterone from plant steroid sapogenins, initially using sarsapogenin from sarsaparilla, which proved too expensive. After three years of extensive botanical research, he discovered a much better starting material, the saponin from inedible Mexican yams (\"Dioscorea mexicana\" and \"Dioscorea composita\") found in the rain forests of Veracruz near Orizaba. The saponin could be converted in the lab to its aglycone moiety diosgenin. Unable to interest his research sponsor Parke-Davis in the commercial potential of synthesizing progesterone from Mexican yams, Marker left Penn State and in 1944 co-founded Syntex with two partners in Mexico City. When he left Syntex a year later the trade of the barbasco yam had started and the period of the heyday of the Mexican steroid industry had been started. Syntex broke the monopoly of European pharmaceutical companies on steroid hormones, reducing the price of progesterone almost 200-fold over the next eight years.\n\nMidway through the 20th century, the stage was set for the development of a hormonal contraceptive, but pharmaceutical companies, universities and governments showed no interest in pursuing research.\n\nIn early 1951, reproductive physiologist Gregory Pincus, a leader in hormone research and co-founder of the Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology (WFEB) in Shrewsbury, Massachusetts, first met American birth control movement founder Margaret Sanger at a Manhattan dinner hosted by Abraham Stone, medical director and vice president of Planned Parenthood (PPFA), who helped Pincus obtain a small grant from PPFA to begin hormonal contraceptive research. Research started on April 25, 1951 with reproductive physiologist Min Chueh Chang repeating and extending the 1937 experiments of Makepeace \"et al.\" that showed injections of progesterone suppressed ovulation in rabbits. In October 1951, G. D. Searle & Company refused Pincus' request to fund his hormonal contraceptive research, but retained him as a consultant and continued to provide chemical compounds to evaluate.\n\nIn March 1952, Sanger wrote a brief note mentioning Pincus' research to her longtime friend and supporter, suffragist and philanthropist Katharine Dexter McCormick, who visited the WFEB and its co-founder and old friend Hudson Hoagland in June 1952 to learn about contraceptive research there. Frustrated when research stalled from PPFA's lack of interest and meager funding, McCormick arranged a meeting at the WFEB on June 6, 1953 with Sanger and Hoagland, where she first met Pincus who committed to dramatically expand and accelerate research with McCormick providing fifty times PPFA's previous funding.\n\nPincus and McCormick enlisted Harvard clinical professor of gynecology John Rock, chief of gynecology at the Free Hospital for Women and an expert in the treatment of infertility, to lead clinical research with women. At a scientific conference in 1952, Pincus and Rock, who had known each other for many years, discovered they were using similar approaches to achieve opposite goals. In 1952, Rock induced a three-month anovulatory \"pseudo-pregnancy\" state in eighty of his infertility patients with continuous gradually increasing oral doses of estrogen (diethylstilbestrol 5–30 mg/day) and progesterone (50–300 mg/day) and within the following four months 15% became pregnant.\n\nIn 1953, at Pincus' suggestion, Rock induced a three-month anovulatory \"pseudo-pregnancy\" state in twenty-seven of his infertility patients with an oral 300 mg/day progesterone-only regimen for 20 days from cycle days 5–24 followed by pill-free days to produce withdrawal bleeding. This produced the same 15% pregnancy rate during the following four months without the amenorrhea of the previous continuous estrogen and progesterone regimen. But 20% of the women experienced breakthrough bleeding and in the first cycle ovulation was suppressed in only 85% of the women, indicating that even higher and more expensive oral doses of progesterone would be needed to initially consistently suppress ovulation.\n\nPincus asked his contacts at pharmaceutical companies to send him chemical compounds with progestogenic activity. Chang screened nearly 200 chemical compounds in animals and found the three most promising were Syntex's norethisterone and Searle's noretynodrel and norethandrolone.\n\nChemists Carl Djerassi, Luis Miramontes, and George Rosenkranz at Syntex in Mexico City had synthesized the first orally highly active progestin norethisterone in 1951. Frank B. Colton at Searle in Skokie, Illinois had synthesized the orally highly active progestins noretynodrel (an isomer of norethisterone) in 1952 and norethandrolone in 1953.\n\nIn December 1954, Rock began the first studies of the ovulation-suppressing potential of 5–50 mg doses of the three oral progestins for three months (for 21 days per cycle—days 5–25 followed by pill-free days to produce withdrawal bleeding) in fifty of his infertility patients in Brookline, Massachusetts. Norethisterone or noretynodrel 5 mg doses and all doses of norethandrolone suppressed ovulation but caused breakthrough bleeding, but 10 mg and higher doses of norethisterone or noretynodrel suppressed ovulation without breakthrough bleeding and led to a 14% pregnancy rate in the following five months. Pincus and Rock selected Searle's noretynodrel for the first contraceptive trials in women, citing its total lack of androgenicity versus Syntex's norethisterone very slight androgenicity in animal tests.\n\nNoretynodrel (and norethisterone) were subsequently discovered to be contaminated with a small percentage of the estrogen mestranol (an intermediate in their synthesis), with the noretynodrel in Rock's 1954–5 study containing 4–7% mestranol. When further purifying noretynodrel to contain less than 1% mestranol led to breakthrough bleeding, it was decided to intentionally incorporate 2.2% mestranol, a percentage that was not associated with breakthrough bleeding, in the first contraceptive trials in women in 1956. The noretynodrel and mestranol combination was given the proprietary name Enovid.\n\nThe first contraceptive trial of Enovid led by Celso-Ramón García and Edris Rice-Wray began in April 1956 in Río Piedras, Puerto Rico. A second contraceptive trial of Enovid (and norethisterone) led by Edward T. Tyler began in June 1956 in Los Angeles. On January 23, 1957, Searle held a symposium reviewing gynecologic and contraceptive research on Enovid through 1956 and concluded Enovid's estrogen content could be reduced by 33% to lower the incidence of estrogenic gastrointestinal side effects without significantly increasing the incidence of breakthrough bleeding.\n\nOn June 10, 1957, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Enovid 10 mg (9.85 mg noretynodrel and 150 µg mestranol) for menstrual disorders, based on data from its use by more than 600 women. Numerous additional contraceptive trials showed Enovid at 10, 5, and 2.5 mg doses to be highly effective. On July 23, 1959, Searle filed a supplemental application to add contraception as an approved indication for 10, 5, and 2.5 mg doses of Enovid. The FDA refused to consider the application until Searle agreed to withdraw the lower dosage forms from the application. On May 9, 1960, the FDA announced it would approve Enovid 10 mg for contraceptive use, and did so on June 23, 1960. At that point, Enovid 10 mg had been in general use for three years and, by conservative estimate, at least half a million women had used it.\n\nAlthough FDA-approved for contraceptive use, Searle never marketed Enovid 10 mg as a contraceptive. Eight months later, on February 15, 1961, the FDA approved Enovid 5 mg for contraceptive use. In July 1961, Searle finally began marketing Enovid 5 mg (5 mg noretynodrel and 75 µg mestranol) to physicians as a contraceptive.\n\nAlthough the FDA approved the first oral contraceptive in 1960, contraceptives were not available to married women in all states until \"Griswold v. Connecticut\" in 1965 and were not available to unmarried women in all states until \"Eisenstadt v. Baird\" in 1972.\n\nThe first published case report of a blood clot and pulmonary embolism in a woman using Enavid (Enovid 10 mg in the U.S.) at a dose of 20 mg/day did not appear until November 1961, four years after its approval, by which time it had been used by over one million women. It would take almost a decade of epidemiological studies to conclusively establish an increased risk of venous thrombosis in oral contraceptive users and an increased risk of stroke and myocardial infarction in oral contraceptive users who smoke or have high blood pressure or other cardiovascular or cerebrovascular risk factors. These risks of oral contraceptives were dramatized in the 1969 book \"The Doctors' Case Against the Pill\" by feminist journalist Barbara Seaman who helped arrange the 1970 Nelson Pill Hearings called by Senator Gaylord Nelson. The hearings were conducted by senators who were all men and the witnesses in the first round of hearings were all men, leading Alice Wolfson and other feminists to protest the hearings and generate media attention. Their work led to mandating the inclusion of patient package inserts with oral contraceptives to explain their possible side effects and risks to help facilitate informed consent. Today's standard dose oral contraceptives contain an estrogen dose that is one third lower than the first marketed oral contraceptive and contain lower doses of different, more potent progestins in a variety of formulations.\n\nThe first oral contraceptive introduced outside the United States was Schering's Anovlar (norethisterone acetate 4 mg + ethinylestradiol 50 µg) on January 1, 1961 in Australia.\n\nThe first oral contraceptive introduced in Europe was Schering's Anovlar on June 1, 1961 in West Germany. The lower hormonal dose, still in use, was studied by the Belgian Gynaecologist Ferdinand Peeters.\n\nBefore the mid-1960s, the United Kingdom did not require pre-marketing approval of drugs. The British Family Planning Association (FPA) through its clinics was then the primary provider of family planning services in Britain and provided only contraceptives that were on its Approved List of Contraceptives (established in 1934). In 1957, Searle began marketing Enavid (Enovid 10 mg in the U.S.) for menstrual disorders. Also in 1957, the FPA established a Council for the Investigation of Fertility Control (CIFC) to test and monitor oral contraceptives which began animal testing of oral contraceptives and in 1960 and 1961 began three large clinical trials in Birmingham, Slough, and London.\n\nIn March 1960, the Birmingham FPA began trials of noretynodrel 2.5 mg + mestranol 50 µg, but a high pregnancy rate initially occurred when the pills accidentally contained only 36 µg of mestranol—the trials were continued with noretynodrel 5 mg + mestranol 75 µg (Conovid in Britain, Enovid 5 mg in the U.S.).\nIn August 1960, the Slough FPA began trials of noretynodrel 2.5 mg + mestranol 100 µg (Conovid-E in Britain, Enovid-E in the U.S.).\nIn May 1961, the London FPA began trials of Schering's Anovlar.\n\nIn October 1961, at the recommendation of the Medical Advisory Council of its CIFC, the FPA added Searle's Conovid to its Approved List of Contraceptives.\nOn December 4, 1961, Enoch Powell, then Minister of Health, announced that the oral contraceptive pill Conovid could be prescribed through the NHS at a subsidized price of 2s per month.\nIn 1962, Schering's Anovlar and Searle's Conovid-E were added to the FPA's Approved List of Contraceptives.\n\nOn December 28, 1967, the Neuwirth Law legalized contraception in France, including the pill. The pill is the most popular form of contraception in France, especially among young women. It accounts for 60% of the birth control used in France. The abortion rate has remained stable since the introduction of the pill.\n\nIn Japan, lobbying from the Japan Medical Association prevented the pill from being approved for general use for nearly 40 years. The higher dose \"second generation\" pill was approved for use in cases of gynecological problems, but not for birth control. Two main objections raised by the association were safety concerns over long-term use of the pill, and concerns that pill use would lead to decreased use of condoms and thereby potentially increase sexually transmitted infection (STI) rates.\n\nHowever, when the Ministry of Health and Welfare approved Viagra's use in Japan after only six months of the application's submission, while still claiming that the pill required more data before approval, women's groups cried foul. The pill was subsequently approved for use in June 1999. However, the pill has not become popular in Japan. According to estimates, only 1.3 percent of 28 million Japanese females of childbearing age use the pill, compared with 15.6 percent in the United States. The pill prescription guidelines the government has endorsed require pill users to visit a doctor every three months for pelvic examinations and undergo tests for sexually transmitted diseases and uterine cancer. In the United States and Europe, in contrast, an annual or bi-annual clinic visit is standard for pill users. However, beginning as far back as 2007, many Japanese OBGYNs have required only a yearly visit for pill users, with multiple checks a year recommended only for those who are older or at increased risk of side effects. As of 2004, condoms accounted for 80% of birth control use in Japan, and this may explain Japan's comparatively low rates of AIDS.\n\nThe pill was approved by the FDA in the early 1960s; its use spread rapidly in the late part of that decade, generating an enormous social impact. \"Time\" magazine placed the pill on its cover in April, 1967. In the first place, it was more effective than most previous reversible methods of birth control, giving women unprecedented control over their fertility. Its use was separate from intercourse, requiring no special preparations at the time of sexual activity that might interfere with spontaneity or sensation, and the choice to take the pill was a private one. This combination of factors served to make the pill immensely popular within a few years of its introduction.\nClaudia Goldin, among others, argue that this new contraceptive technology was a key player in forming women's modern economic role, in that it prolonged the age at which women first married allowing them to invest in education and other forms of human capital as well as generally become more career-oriented. Soon after the birth control pill was legalized, there was a sharp increase in college attendance and graduation rates for women. From an economic point of view, the birth control pill reduced the cost of staying in school. The ability to control fertility without sacrificing sexual relationships allowed women to make long term educational and career plans.\n\nBecause the pill was so effective, and soon so widespread, it also heightened the debate about the moral and health consequences of pre-marital sex and promiscuity. Never before had sexual activity been so divorced from reproduction. For a couple using the pill, intercourse became purely an expression of love, or a means of physical pleasure, or both; but it was no longer a means of reproduction. While this was true of previous contraceptives, their relatively high failure rates and their less widespread use failed to emphasize this distinction as clearly as did the pill. The spread of oral contraceptive use thus led many religious figures and institutions to debate the proper role of sexuality and its relationship to procreation. The Roman Catholic Church in particular, after studying the phenomenon of oral contraceptives, re-emphasized the stated teaching on birth control in the 1968 papal encyclical \"Humanae vitae\". The encyclical reiterated the established Catholic teaching that artificial contraception distorts the nature and purpose of sex. On the other side Anglican and other Protestant churches, such as the Evangelical Church in Germany (EKD) accepted the combined oral contraceptive pill.\n\nThe United States Senate began hearings on the pill in 1970 and there were different viewpoints heard from medical professionals. Dr. Michael Newton, President of the College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists said:\n\n\"The evidence is not yet clear that these still do in fact cause cancer or related to it. The FDA Advisory Committee made comments about this, that if there wasn't enough evidence to indicate whether or not these pills were related to the development of cancer, and I think that's still thin; you have to be cautious about them, but I don't think there is clear evidence, either one way or the other, that they do or don't cause cancer.\"\nAnother physician, Dr. Roy Hertz of the Population Council, said that anyone who takes this should know of \"our knowledge and ignorance in these matters\" and that all women should be made aware of this so she can decide to take the pill or not.\n\nThe Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare at the time, Robert Finch, announced the federal government had accepted a compromise warning statement which would accompany all sales of birth control pills.\n\nThe introduction of the birth control pill in 1960 allowed more women to find employment opportunities and further their education. As a result of more women getting jobs and an education, their husbands had to start taking over household tasks like cooking. Wanting to stop the change that was occurring in terms of gender norms in an American household, many films, television shows, and other popular culture items portrayed what an ideal American family should be. Below are listed some examples:\n\n\n\nA woman using COCPs excretes from her urine and feces natural estrogens, estrone (E1) and estradiol (E2), and synthetic estrogen ethinylestradiol (EE2).\nThese hormones can pass through water treatment plants and into rivers. Other forms of contraception, such as the contraceptive patch, use the same synthetic estrogen (EE2) that is found in COCPs, and can add to the hormonal concentration in the water when flushed down the toilet. This excretion is shown to play a role in causing endocrine disruption, which affects the sexual development and the reproduction, in wild fish populations in segments of streams contaminated by treated sewage effluents.\nA study done in British rivers supported the hypothesis that the incidence and the severity of intersex wild fish populations were significantly correlated with the concentrations of the E1, E2, and EE2 in the rivers.\n\nA review of activated sludge plant performance found estrogen removal rates varied considerably but averaged 78% for estrone, 91% for estradiol, and 76% for ethinylestradiol (estriol effluent concentrations are between those of estrone and estradiol, but estriol is a much less potent endocrine disruptor to fish).\n\nNumerous studies have demonstrated that increasing access to contraception, including birth control pills, can be an effective strategy for climate change mitigation as well as adaptation. According to Thomas Wire, contraception is the 'greenest technology' because of its cost-effectiveness in combating global warming — each $7 spent on family planning would reduce global carbon emissions by 1 tonne over four decades, while achieving the same result with low-carbon technologies would require $32. If all the current unmet need for contraception were met, that would reduce global carbon dioxide emissions by 34 gigatonnes between 2010 and 2050.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11500949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11500949", "title": "Communicology", "text": "Communicology\n\nCommunicology is the scholarly and academic study of how we create and use messages to affect our social environment. Communicology is an academic discipline that distinguishes itself from the broader field of human communication with its exclusive use of scientific methods to study communicative phenomena. The goals of these scientific methods are to create and extend theory-based knowledge about the processes and outcomes of communication. Practitioners in the communicology discipline employ empirical and deductive research methods, such as cross-sectional and longitudinal surveys, experiments, meta-analyses, and content analyses, to test theoretically-derived hypotheses. Correlational and causal relationships between communication variables are tested in these studies.\n\nResearchers of communicology explore specific functions of communication. Such functions might include interpersonal communication, message processing, and persuasion. Researcher might also situate their studies in different contexts, such as intercultural communication, health communication, intergroup communication, technology-mediated communication, and small group communication. Findings from communicology link research to several different perspectives from the social sciences, natural sciences, and medicine.\n\nThe word communicology has its roots in Latin from \"commūnicō\", meaning to share or impart, and -logia, meaning the “study of.” The academic study of human communication focuses on the use of messages to impart, inform, and participate in dialogue. Charles Horton Cooley described the system of communication as “a tool, a progressive invention, whose improvements react upon mankind and alter the life of every individual and institution.” The adjective form of commūnicō, \"communis\", is translated as “to make common.” An important pursuit in the academic study of human communication is to understand how meaning is created through the messages shared between interaction partners. Although various attempts have been made to label the scientific study of communication, including “communication sciences” and “communication studies,” such terms have been used to reference broad and all-encompassing approaches to studying messages. The label communicology narrows the scope of studying human communication by focusing solely on scientific approaches to message construction, production, and exchange.\n\nThe study of human communication originated in ancient Greece and Rome with notable philosophers, such as Socrates, Cicero, and Plato. Students of this early study of communication pursued knowledge on public rhetoric, oratory, and persuasion. Interest in the modern study of human communication intensified with burgeoning technology and it soon grew into a legitimate field following World War I and World War II.\n\nThe modern study of communication in the U.S. can be traced to four influential forefathers: Paul Lazarsfeld, Kurt Lewin, Harold Lasswell, and Carl Hovland. Lazarsfeld, who was trained as a mathematician, was influenced by socialism. His training in mathematics made him gravitate toward the methodology of communication rather than its content. Lazarsfeld, however, did engage in some theorizing about the effects of propaganda on its viewers. His two-step flow of communication model is still used today to describe how information diffuses into public opinion. Harold Lasswell was interested in power dynamics that existed in politics. Lasswell used various approaches to understanding the media effects of propaganda messages, including his initial studies using critical and qualitative designs and his later quantitative studies. He was influenced largely by pragmatism and Freudian thought. Lasswell's best known contribution to the communication field is his model of communication. Kurt Lewin began as an experimental psychologist at the University of Berlin. Although some of his work after he moved to the U.S. focused on applied or action research, Lewin's largest contributions to scientific understanding were based on his theoretically-derived research. His approach to studying psychology was largely guided by the natural sciences, particularly physics, and medicine. Carl Hovland was the director of experimental studies for propaganda research during World War II. Hovland was interested in the persuasion of propaganda, including ideas involving attitudes, credibility, and fear appeals. Hovland's approach to studying persuasion was influenced by Freudian psychoanalytics theory and Clark Hull's behaviorism and stimulus-response theory. During his post as the Director of the Institute of Human Relations at Yale University, Hovland addressed a large number of social problems in his research using multidisciplinary approaches.\n\nFollowing World War II, the study of propaganda and, more broadly, human interactions did not rest. The forefathers understood the importance of studying message creation and exchange. They developed communication centers and institutes at their own home institutions. The modern study of human communication in the decades that followed grew in the kinds of topics researchers studied and the different methodological approaches from which these topics were studied. Scholars began to address message-related topics of interest to them in subfields such as health communication, mass communication, interpersonal communication, intercultural communication, persuasion and social influence, political communication, and communication technology. These scholars approached theorizing about and researching human communication using various ontological and epistemological approaches, including rhetorical, semiotic, phenomenological, cybernetic, sociopsychological, sociocultural, and critical traditions. The term “communication” used to describe the collection of these vastly different traditions is now so broad and encompassing that it means everything and, at the same time, nothing.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century, the scholarly and academic domains of any communication department might include \"performance components\" (e.g., performance of literature; storytelling), \"humanities components\" (e.g., rhetorical analyses; critical analyses); \"social science components\" (e.g., scientific experimentation), and \"medical/biological components\" (e.g., speech pathology, audiology). Communication departments are also commonly the home of \"professional training\" in media-related topics, such as journalism, media production, Web design, and telecommunications. Some universities have attempted to house multiple independent departments that focus exclusively on targeted aspects of communication under larger “colleges of communication.”\n\nThe large breadth of the communication field meant that rhetoricians and critical cultural scholars were housed in the same departments as quantitative social scientists and even neuroscientists. Although these disparate learners of communication are ostensibly situated to tackle similar message-related research problems, the methodological approaches they use to resolve these problems vastly differ. The subset of communication researchers who practice theory development and theory building using \"scientific\" research methods, such as quantitative survey designs, experiments, quantitative content analysis, and meta-analysis, fall under the label communicologists. Programs such as the College of Communication at Michigan State University, Department of Communication at University of California, Santa Barbara, and Department of Communication at University of Arizona have, for several decades, directed their research production toward studying human communication from a communicological approach. More recently, programs like the Department of Communicology at the University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa have been created to underscore the exclusively scientific paradigmatic approach shared by all researchers in the department.\n\nHuman communication in the study of communicology is examined through a functional approach, a general perspective used to describe what humans do with communication. Communicology begins with the primary assumption that the overarching goal of communication is to create understanding. No matter what reason we have for communicating with another interactant, we simply cannot achieve that purpose without initiating a state of mutual understanding with him or her. In essence, the primary function of all human communication is to get others to hold the same mental representation that we have in our minds.\n\nSecondary reasons for communicating with others also exist, which generally involve goals of influence. For example, we might attempt to get a person to like us more in the pursuit of a friendship or a romantic relationship. Interactants might attempt to use communication to define and negotiate the nature of their relationship with each other, enacting what is known as relational influence. This interpersonal function of communication is present in every communicative situation, whether between two people, two corporations, or even two nation states. Social influence goals can also include using communication to instill specific beliefs in another person, influencing his or her attitudes toward some idea or object. The function of social influence is to persuade a person or induce compliance using requests or communicating desires.\n\nCommunicological approaches have been aimed at developing theory-based knowledge using scientific methods. Communicologists often subscribe to postpositivist views of theory construction and theory refinement. Two views guide the study of human communication from a communicological standpoint: the view of communicology as a social science and as a natural science.\n\nThe view of communicology as a social science is guided by an understanding that social systems and cultures can introduce variability in communication patterns within and across groups of individuals. The social scientific approach is generally concerned with the way humans relate to each other by forming beliefs, attitudes, and stereotypes about them. For decades, a leading question in the study of human communication from a social scientific approach has been how context of the interactants involved in message exchange plays a role in how messages are interpreted. For instance, whereas the question of why people smile might lie in the province of medical or natural scientific approaches to studying communicology, answering questions about the variability between two cultural groups in smiling behaviors following exposure to a stimulus lies within the grasp of the social sciences. In understanding why people engage in specific behaviors, the social scientific approach to communicology references the mental processes underlying mental activity that give rise to the behavior. Perception, attitudes, reasoning, thinking, memory, and emotions, all things that can be directly influenced by one's environment, are taken into consideration when explaining, predicting, and controlling (i.e., the functions of theory-based knowledge) human behaviors.\n\nThe view of communicology as a natural science is guided by an understanding that humans’ communicative behaviors can be best explained as a function of our biologically-engineered responses, which are, to some extent, predetermined by our evolutionary origins. The basis for this view is that human communication that is employed for cooperation and collaboration served as an important historical adaptive advantage over several millennia. Largely guided by the work of Charles Darwin, the natural science view of communicology attempts to locate communicative behaviors that are common to and unite humans, and attribute these linguistic commonalities to an evolutionary problem for which it solved. The natural science approach also references recent developments in neuropsychological and cognitive sciences to explain human behaviors. Scholars of communicology address topics such as linguistic diversity in relation to parasite stress, the neurochemistry underlying certain media addictions, and unconscious and automatic behaviors related to the development of habits. The physiology and neurostructures of the human body are of interest to those who study communicology from this natural science perspective.\n\nThe term ‘communicology’ has been adopted worldwide by the International Communicology Institute (Communicology.org) to refer to a human science (qualitative) approach to human communication research. Communicology has been used to describe a discipline under the broader field of communication that uses logic-based semiotic and phenomenological methods to study human consciousness and behavioral embodiment. This method of studying human consciousness and embodiment can be traced to Edmund Husserl, the Father of Phenomenology, and later inspired by the works of Maurice Merleau-Ponty, Michel Foucault, and Charles Peirce. Cognate subfields recognized under this label include art communicology, clinical communicology, media communicology, and philosophy communicology. Understanding of human communication processes is developed using qualitative methodologies in this discipline of study.\n\nThe International Academy of Communicology publishes “Communicology: International Scientific Journal,” a periodical dedicated to research reports on “the theory and practice of public relations, media and communications, the basic theory of communication, sociology of mass communications, image making skills, as well as problems of formation of non-material values (image, publicity, brand, reputation, etc.).” Most uses of the term communicology do not correspond to how the \"social science\" (quantitative methods) term has been adopted and used at the University of Hawaii.\n\nA Swedish so-called \"Institute of Communicology\" promotes pseudo-scientific claims, such as that all human activity can be described by a set of variables.\n"}
{"id": "35176347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35176347", "title": "Compulsory heterosexuality", "text": "Compulsory heterosexuality\n\nCompulsory heterosexuality is the idea that heterosexuality is assumed and enforced by a heteronormative society. This refers to the idea that heterosexuality can be adopted by people regardless of their personal sexual preferences. Heterosexuality is viewed as the natural inclination or obligation by both sexes. Consequently, anyone who differs from the normalcy of heterosexuality is deemed deviant or abhorrent. Adrienne Rich popularized the term \"compulsory heterosexuality\" in her 1980 essay titled \"Compulsory Heterosexuality and Lesbian Existence\". Rich's first concept of compulsory heterosexuality only included women, however, later revisions of the idea have included how compulsory heterosexuality affects men. Common examples include the assumption that children will grow up to marry a person of the opposite sex, children must steer away from having friends of the opposite sex, sexual education books that exclusively discuss heterosexuality, the concept of \"coming out\", religious and secular organizations that assume all members are heterosexual, and believing that if one can pretend to be heterosexual that is better than being non-heterosexual. Compulsory heterosexuality is seen as ignorant, a contributor to homophobia by marginalizing non-heterosexuals, treating heterosexuality as the superior default, and decreasing awareness of the large number of people within the population who are not heterosexual.\n\nAdrienne Rich, who popularized the term \"compulsory heterosexuality\", argues that heterosexuality is a political institution which needs to be re-examined for women to escape dis-empowerment. She argues that much of feminist literature still functions under a compulsory heterosexual paradigm, which is a problem facing the homosexual community. The scholarly articles that emerge from feminist authors fail to recognize the institutions, such as marriage, that are regarded as normal are, in fact, socializations which we have internalized and reproduced in society. Rich goes on to argue that regardless of a woman's sexual orientation, any woman can choose to be a lesbian. People who question their sexuality are accused of being compulsory heterosexual. Also, Rich views lesbian identification as being on a continuum. She believes that all women can be lesbians by becoming \"woman-identified women\", meaning that women should be focused on the needs and emotions of other women. Rich argues because women have both maternal as well as sexual desires, they, unlike men are more diverse in their abilities to care for others in diverse rather than purely sexual ways. Due in part to this argument, Rich’s work has been largely discredited. However, the work of others has attempted to revive the basic argument that Rich puts forth.\n\nOther authors have argued that \"compulsory heterosexuality\" has multiple important uses. Stevi Jackson stated, \"Indeed, Rich's concept of 'compulsory heterosexuality' could be seen as a forerunner of 'heteronormativity' and I would like to preserve an often neglected legacy of the former concept: that institutionalized, normative heterosexuality regulates those kept within its boundaries as well as marginalizing and sanctioning those outside them. The term 'heteronormativity' has not always captured this double-sided social regulation.\"\n\nIndividuals are exposed to compulsory heterosexuality from birth and therefore those that are in the sexual minority must explore their understanding of themselves in contrast with society. People are often assumed to be heterosexual until proven otherwise. In Sandra Lipsitz study she sets out to prove that, contrast to what was once believed, sexual minorities psychologically have a greater \"global identity development\". Along with the polarization of the sexes comes the hierarchy. It is argued the dissolving of the barriers would remove sexism.\n\nAdrienne Rich argues that compulsory heterosexuality is reinforced by social institutions. Rich argues that same-sex marriage reinforces compulsory heterosexuality. William Havilland argues that marriage is a socially recognized union or legal contract between spouses that establishes rights and obligations between them, between them and their children, and between them and their in-laws, and that same-sex marriage has been claimed to be a negative addition to this. It is proposed that a negative connotation is put on same-sex marriage because it works against the idea of what it means to be heteronormative. In \"The New Homonormativity: The Sexual Politics of Neoliberalism\", Lisa Duggan: \"Homonormativity—it is a politics that does not contest dominant heteronormative assumptions and institutions—such as marriage, and its call for monogamy and reproduction—but upholds and sustains them while promising the possibility of a demobilized gay constituency and a privatized, depoliticized gay culture anchored in domesticity and consumption (179).\"\n\nAccording to , in \"The Invention of Heterosexual Culture\", heterosexuality and the creation of male to female relationships is considered to be important, and Tin proposes that importance and emphasis has been put on reproduction because of this. He argues that this need for the reproduction \"eclipsed\" \"homosocial male bonds\", which he claims commonly existed during the Middle Ages. Tin argues that negative connotations were associated with male and female relationships prior to this, and that this was because sexual relations were considered to interfere with spiritual obligations, and it was believed that same-sex relationships would not become sexual. According to Tolman, Spencer, Rosen-Reynoso, and Porche, \"Rich posited that heterosexuality is political in nature, rather than natural, functioning to serve the needs and desires of men within patriarchy, and therefore requiring various forms of male coercion of women for its production.\"\n\nRich claims male dominance and its presence in social institutions are major factors in enforcing female heterosexuality. To describe this phenomenon, she uses a list of \"eight characteristics of male power in archaic and contemporary societies\" that is found in Kathleen Gough's essay \"The Origin of the Family, in which Gough proposes the following characteristics:\nRich concludes that all of these characteristics contribute to a culture that convinces women that heterosexual relationships and marriage are inevitable, whether by physical force or \"control of consciousness,\" and especially in combination with lesbian erasure.\n\nRich argues that compulsory heterosexuality, as a means of assuring male right of physical, economic, and emotional access, keeps the convention of female disempowerment intact through heterosexual relationships and doesn't allow for the growth of sexualities regarded as deviant, such as lesbian. Ultimately, Rich suggests a \"lesbian continuum\" that encourages female relationships, regardless of sexual desire, and views heterosexuality as an institution imposed on women. Rich views the acknowledgment of sexual choice as a necessary condition for female empowerment and an understanding of women's continuous resistance to men throughout history.\n\nAdditionally, Rich criticizes feminist scholarship for its exclusion of lesbian as a genuine, natural option for women. She writes:\"The assumption ... that women are \"innately sexually oriented\" toward men, or that the lesbian choice is simply an acting-out of bitterness toward men, ... [is] widely current in literature and in the social sciences. I am concerned here with two other matters as well: first, how and why women's choice of women as passionate comrades, life partners, co-workers, lovers, tribe, has been crushed, invalidated, forced into hiding and disguise; and second, the virtual or total neglect of lesbian existence in a wide range of writings, including feminist scholarship. Obviously there is a connection here.\"She explores the content of \"For Her Own Good: 150 Years of the Experts' Advice to Women\" by Barbara Ehrenreich and Deirdre English, \"Toward a New Psychology of Women\" by Jean Baker Miller, and \"Minotaur: Sexual Arrangements and the Human Malaise\" by Nancy Chodorow, which, according to Rich, are presented as feminist texts and assume \"that the social relations of the sexes are disordered and extremely problematic\". Rich argues that these feminist texts do not examine the issue of compulsory heterosexuality or acknowledge that a woman might not choose heterosexuality if she were socialized in a more equal society.\n\nKathleen Debold, in her book \"Dilemmas of desire: Teenage girls talk about sexuality\", argues that lesbian erasure can be a health care issue . She proposes heterosexism is active as a tacit assumption when \"forms assess health risks by asking 'Are you sexually active?' followed by questions about what birth control methods the patient uses\". The American Medical Association states that, \"unrecognized homosexuality by the physician or the patient's reluctance to report his or her sexual orientation can lead to failure to screen, diagnose, or treat important medical problems\".\n\nA major drive for compulsory heterosexuality is that of evolution. It ties a sexual orientation's worth with reproduction. Evolutionarily speaking in order to further the species offspring must be created and therefore genes are past on. This basic understanding of biology is then taken steps further implicating heterosexuality as the \"natural\" form and therefore making homosexuality specifically as well as any minority sexuality \"abnormal\". As Seidman puts it, science is “a powerful practical-moral force”.\n\nThough, evolutionary arguments have implications in minority sexualities they also directly impact the stereotypes of heterosexual relationships and especially concepts of masculinity. Arguments for men being the hunter are then applied to today's understanding of the male gender being superior. The flip side of this understanding is the influence of this on the female gender. Them being depicted as the weaker sex and their main function being childbearing. These understandings however do not include ideas of morality, which is what is being applied to them.\n\nMuch of religion invokes a binary model for sexuality. For example, tracing back to the bible which includes Adam and Eve as the beginning of humanity. As well as specific texts including this one from Leviticus, \"Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination.\" Religious institutions throughout history have had strict moral guidelines when it came to marriage and what is deemed expectable in the eyes of God. This directly translates to compulsory heterosexuality in society though influence of leaders of the church as well as devout followers of this belief.\n\nHomosexuals have a difficult time finding acceptance particularly in the Bible Belt.\"There's little doubt that discrimination against homosexuals is the last \"acceptable\" form of discrimination. While most folks have outgrown overt racist and sexist attacks, for many people it's still okay to take shots at homosexuals. They are called names, blamed for society's problems, and often humiliated because of their sexual preference.\"While a binary model for sexuality might be enforced, \"Many of the Puritans in colonial New England believed that \"all\" human beings were filled with homosexual as well as heterosexual desire and that the good Christian should direct that desire into procreative sex within marriage.\" This ideology carries over in modern-day conservative Christianity, and is enforced through the idea that the more welcoming people are to the idea of homosexuality, the more people will give into their homosexual lusts.\n\nRich argues for compulsory heterosexuality in the workplace, to which end she references Catharine MacKinnon's \"Sexual Harassment of Working Women: A Case of Sex Discrimination\". MacKinnon argues that women occupy low-paying jobs and their sexual marketability is a factor in the workplace. MacKinnon states that \"her job depends on her pretending to be not merely heterosexual, but a heterosexual \"woman\" in terms of dressing and playing the feminine, deferential role required of 'real' women\". Rich argues that the treatment of women in the workplace is a significant influence in society's compulsory heterosexuality. Rich argues that women feel pressure to be heterosexual in the workplace, and that this pressure is also present in society as a whole. As a species will become extinct if no reproduction occurs, and human women must be inseminated to produce offspring, heterosexual relationships are necessary for the survival of the human race, barring artificial insemination. According to Rich, women accept the male sex drive and regard themselves as sexual prey, and this influences compulsory heterosexuality. According to Rich, Barry argues for a 'sexual domination perspective', claims that men subject women to what she terms as \"sexual abuse\" and \"terrorism\", and that the 'sexual domination perspective' causes people to consider this \"sexual abuse\" and \"terrorism\" to be natural and inevitable and thus ignore it.\n\nAccording to Rich, women believe men have a natural need to have sex, and this results in them viewing \"abuse\" as inevitable. Barry argues that this rationale is romanticized through popular media. Rich claims that this is reinforced through compulsory heterosexuality.\n\nWhile the concept of compulsory heterosexuality initially only included women, later revisions of the idea have included discussion on how Compulsory Heterosexuality necessarily requires both men and women to reinforce the construct; furthermore, that compulsory heterosexuality impacts males as well. Tolman, Spencer, Rosen-Reynoso, and Porche (2003) found that even heterosexual males reported being negatively impacted by compulsory heterosexuality through being groomed to aggressively pursue women and through the interactions that society allows them to have with other males. In another article, entitled \"\"In a Different Position: Conceptualizing Female Adolescent Sexuality Development Within Compulsory Heterosexuality\",\" Tolman uses the term \"hegemonic masculinity\" to describe the set of norms and behaviors that dominate the social development of males. Moreover, hegemonic masculinity mirrors Rich's construct of compulsory heterosexuality by pointing out the social intuitions that demand specific behaviors from males; she says, \"these norms demand that men deny most emotions, save for anger; be hard at all times and in all ways; engage in objectification of women and sex itself; and participate in the continuum of violence against women\".\n\nCompulsory heterosexuality also negatively affects gay men by teaching them from a young age that straightness is \"normal\" and therefore anything that deviates from that is abnormal. Debbie Epstein discusses in her book, \"Silenced Sexualities in Schools and Universities\", how heteronormative standards as well as compulsory heterosexuality lead to young males not only feeling forced to appear heterosexual, but can lead to violence against these males if they deviate from expectations against them. Hellen Lenskyj has further suggested in her article \"Combating homophobia in sport and physical education\" that heterosexuality is enforced in males through imitation and violence against those who deviate. Through these norms, males are taught from a young age that if they do not comply to heterosexual norms and standards they place themselves at risk for social exclusion and physical violence against them.\n\nTo understand the complexity of compulsory heterosexuality, several scholars have pointed out the importance of the impact of this construct on the differential effects on all populations, including minorities. In \"No More Secrets, No More Lies: African American History and Compulsory Heterosexuality\", Mattie Udora Richardson discusses the additional complexities faced by Black women in terms of forced compulsory heterosexuality. Udora Richardon points out that, \"Any divergences from the social norms of marriage, domesticity, and the nuclear family have brought serious accusations of savagery, pathology, and deviance upon Black people.\" She argues that as a group that is already stigmatized in multiple ways, Black women face additional pressures from both the Black and White communities towards heteronormativity. Divergences from heterosexuality place Black women in particular risk of physical harm or social exile.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17488633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17488633", "title": "Dioxin affair", "text": "Dioxin affair\n\nThe Dioxin affair was a political crisis that struck in Belgium during the spring of 1999.\nContamination of feedstock with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) was detected in animal food products, mainly eggs and chickens.\nAlthough health inspectors reported the problem in January, measurements were taken only from May 1999 when the media revealed the case. The then Flemish Liberals and Democrats (VLD) opposition leader Guy Verhofstadt claimed that the government was trying to cover up the so-called \"nota Destickere\", which proved that several secretaries of state were informed much earlier that the food contained PCBs and dioxins.\n\nThe Dioxin Affair started with some complaints from chicken farmers who noticed increased death among newborn chickens. Laboratory analysis confirmed the presence of dioxin-like toxins well above normal limits in the eggs, tissues and feed of the affected birds. It was later confirmed that the dioxin-like toxicity was a result of the presence of PCBs, many of which form part of the group of dioxins and dioxin-like compounds which have toxic properties, in the bird's feed. \n\n, Minister of Agriculture, and , Minister of Health, immediately resigned their positions and a commission was installed to investigate the probable sources of contamination and the errors that had been made by the government. Later investigations revealed that the source of the contamination came from an oil-and-fat-recycling company, Verkest, from Deinze. The fats were reprocessed into animal feed that also contained transformer oil (coolant fluid), a known source of PCBs.\n\nPublic concern about the quality of animal food in general became a hot issue in the media. This forced the commission to ban certain recycling streams (like frying oil) from entering the food chain in order to prevent future contamination. Later studies indicated that there was never a serious danger to human health because the contaminated material was largely diluted during the production of the animal feed. Seven million chickens and fifty thousand pigs were slaughtered and discarded.\n\nMany farms were closed down for months and animal food products were banned from the market. During the investigation, questions were raised as to whether the costs for destroying the food and feedstock were necessary, as it seemed obvious that the contaminated food had already passed through the food market during the period from January to May. To protect the farmers, the Belgian government promised to compensate them for their losses. The crisis also damaged the export of Belgian animal products. Many Belgians went shopping for meat and dairy products in foreign countries. The total costs of the food crisis are estimated at 25 billion francs, or 625 million Euros.\n\nThe dioxin crisis strongly influenced the federal elections of 1999 (as well as the regional elections of 1999). The governing party, Christian People's Party (CVP), suffered a historic loss and forced the end of premier Jean-Luc Dehaene's eight-year reign. This meant a victory for the VLD and Guy Verhofstadt, who would become Prime Minister of Belgium until 2007. Green parties Ecolo and Agalev were also able to profit from the public concern around environment and food quality.\n\nIn 2001, a public report announced that high dioxin levels were detected in Belgians' blood plasma compared to other European populations. A direct link to the dioxin crisis seemed obvious. Later comparison with blood samples that were taken before the crisis disproved this hypothesis. High levels could also be attributed to the dense populations and industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9491", "title": "Eskimo", "text": "Eskimo\n\nEskimo () is an English term for the indigenous peoples who have traditionally inhabited the northern circumpolar region from eastern Siberia (Russia) to across Alaska (of the United States), Canada, and Greenland.\n\nThe two main peoples known as \"Eskimo\" are: (1) the Alaskan Iñupiat peoples, Greenlandic Inuit, and the mass-grouping Inuit peoples of Canada, and (2) the Yupik of eastern Siberia and Alaska. The Yupik comprise speakers of four distinct Yupik languages: one used in the Russian Far East and the others among people of Western Alaska, Southcentral Alaska and along the Gulf of Alaska coast. A third northern group, the Aleut, is closely related to these two. They share a relatively recent common ancestor, and a language group (Eskimo-Aleut).\n\nThe word \"Eskimo\" derives from phrases that Algonquin tribes used for their northern neighbors. The Inuit and Yupik peoples generally do not use it to refer to themselves, and the governments in Canada and Greenland have ceased using it in official documents.\n\nIn its linguistic origins, the word Eskimo comes from Innu-aimun (Montagnais) 'ayas̆kimew' meaning \"a person who laces a snowshoe\" and is related to \"husky\", so does not originally have a pejorative meaning.\n\nIn Canada and Greenland, the term \"Eskimo\" is predominately seen as pejorative and has been widely replaced by the term \"Inuit\" or terms specific to a particular group or community. This has resulted in a trend whereby some Canadians and Americans believe that they should not use the word \"Eskimo\" and use the Canadian word \"Inuit\" instead, even for Yupik speakers. In section 25 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and section 35 of the Canadian Constitution Act of 1982, recognized the Inuit as a distinctive group of Aboriginal peoples in Canada.\n\nUnder U.S. and Alaskan law (as well as the linguistic and cultural traditions of Alaska), \"Alaska Native\" refers to all indigenous peoples of Alaska. This includes not only the Iñupiat and the Yupik, but also groups such as the Aleut, who share a recent ancestor, as well as the largely unrelated indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest Coast and the Alaskan Athabaskans. As a result, the term Eskimo is still in use in Alaska. Alternative terms, such as \"Inuit-Yupik\", have been proposed, but none has gained widespread acceptance.\n\nSeveral earlier indigenous peoples existed in the region. The earliest positively identified Paleo-Eskimo cultures (Early Paleo-Eskimo) date to 5,000 years ago. They appear to have developed in Alaska from people related to the Arctic small tool tradition in eastern Asia, whose ancestors had probably migrated to Alaska at least 3,000 to 5,000 years earlier. Similar artifacts have been found in Siberia that date to perhaps 18,000 years ago.\n\nThe Yupik languages and cultures in Alaska evolved in place, beginning with the original pre-Dorset indigenous culture developed in Alaska. Approximately 4000 years ago, the Unangan culture of the Aleut became distinct. It is not generally considered an Eskimo culture.\n\nApproximately 1,500–2,000 years ago, apparently in northwestern Alaska, two other distinct variations appeared. Inuit language became distinct and, over a period of several centuries, its speakers migrated across northern Alaska, through Canada and into Greenland. The distinct culture of the Thule people developed in northwestern Alaska and very quickly spread over the entire area occupied by Eskimo people, though it was not necessarily adopted by all of them.\n\nTwo principal competing etymologies have been proposed for the name \"Eskimo\", both derived from the Innu-aimun (Montagnais) language, an Algonquian language of the Atlantic Ocean coast. The most commonly accepted today appears to be the proposal of Ives Goddard at the Smithsonian Institution, who derives the term from the Montagnais word meaning \"snowshoe-netter\" or \"to net snowshoes.\" The word \"assime·w\" means \"she laces a snowshoe\" in Montagnais. Montagnais speakers refer to the neighbouring Mi'kmaq people using words that sound like \"eskimo\".\n\nIn 1978, Jose Mailhot, a Quebec anthropologist who speaks Montagnais, published a paper suggesting that Eskimo meant \"people who speak a different language\". French traders who encountered the Montagnais in the eastern areas, adopted their word for the more western peoples and spelled it as \"Esquimau\" in a transliteration.\n\nSome people consider \"Eskimo\" derogatory because it is widely perceived to mean \"eaters of raw meat\" in Algonquian languages common to people along the Atlantic coast. One Cree speaker suggested the original word that became corrupted to Eskimo might have been \"askamiciw\" (which means \"he eats it raw\"); the Inuit are referred to in some Cree texts as \"askipiw\" (which means \"eats something raw\").\n\nThe 'Esquimaux' comes from Samuel Hearne's \"A Journey from Prince of Wales's Fort in Hudson's Bay to the Northern Ocean in the Years 1769, 1770, 1771, 1772\" first published in 1795. Hearne, an Englishman employed by the Hudson Bay Company, traveled to Fort Prince of Wales at present day Churchill via ship, and not overland. He is highly unlikely to have encountered French traders or their allies in his travels to have picked up a word for the present-day Inuit from them, as the fall of Quebec and the end of French activity in North America was just 6 years prior to his arrival. On the contrary, trade at Fort Prince of Wales was conducted with the Cree and the Chipewyans, and conducted at the shores of Hudson Bay at that time. Trade, by ship, with the Esquimaux was one of Hearne's first assignments. It would be on Hearne's watch that inland exploration would begin. It was in the company of Matonabbee on his third attempt to find the sources of the copper in use by indigenous peoples that Hearne encountered the Inuit as described in Massacre at Bloody Falls. That the word 'esquimaux' as applying to the Inuit would have come from French sources, and from such southerly peoples as the Algonquians seems highly unlikely, but Hearne's use of the term and his manner of spelling it suggest that the term was already in use prior to his arrival in 1766.\n\nIn Canada and Greenland, the term \"Eskimo\" has largely been supplanted by the term \"Inuit\". While \"Inuit\" can be accurately applied to all of the Eskimo peoples in Canada and Greenland, that is not true in Alaska and Siberia. In Alaska the term \"Eskimo\" is commonly used, because it includes both Yupik and Iñupiat. \"Inuit\" is not accepted as a collective term and it is not used specifically for Iñupiat (although they are related to the Canadian Inuit peoples).\n\nIn 1977, the Inuit Circumpolar Conference (ICC) meeting in Utqiagvik, Alaska, officially adopted Inuit as a designation for all circumpolar native peoples, regardless of their local view on an appropriate term. As a result, the Canadian government usage has replaced the (locally) defunct term Eskimo with \"Inuit\" (\"Inuk\" in singular). The preferred term in Canada's Central Arctic is \"Inuinnaq\", and in the eastern Canadian Arctic \"Inuit\". The language is often called \"Inuktitut\", though other local designations are also used. Despite the ICC's 1977 decision to adopt the term \"Inuit\", this was never accepted by the Yupik peoples, who likened it to calling all Native American Indians \"Navajo\" simply because the Navajo felt that that's what all tribes should be called.\n\nThe Inuit of Greenland refer to themselves as \"Greenlanders\" and speak the Greenlandic language.\n\nBecause of the linguistic, ethnic, and cultural differences between Yupik and Inuit peoples, it seems unlikely that any umbrella term will be acceptable. There has been some movement to use \"Inuit\", and the Inuit Circumpolar Council, representing a circumpolar population of 150,000 Inuit and Yupik people of Greenland, Northern Canada, Alaska, and Siberia, in its charter defines \"Inuit\" for use within that ICC document as including \"the Inupiat, Yupik (Alaska), Inuit, Inuvialuit (Canada), Kalaallit (Greenland) and Yupik (Russia).\"\n\nIn 2010, the ICC passed a resolution in which they implored scientists to use \"Inuit\" and \"Paleo-Inuit\" instead of \"Eskimo\" or \"Paleo-Eskimo\". American linguist Lenore Grenoble has explicitly deferred to this resolution and used \"Inuit–Yupik\" instead of \"Eskimo\" with regards to the language branch. In a 2015 commentary in the journal \"Arctic\", Canadian archaeologist Max Friesen argued fellow Arctic archaeologists should follow the ICC and use \"Paleo-Inuit\" instead of \"Paleo-Eskimo\".\n\nBut, in Alaska, the Inuit people refer to themselves as \"Iñupiat,\" plural, and \"Iñupiaq\", singular (their North Alaskan Inupiatun language is also called \"Iñupiaq\"). They do not commonly use the term Inuit. In Alaska, \"Eskimo\" is in common usage.\n\nAlaskans also use the term Alaska Native, which is inclusive of all Eskimo, Aleut and other Native American people of Alaska. It does not apply to Inuit or Yupik people originating outside the state. The term \"Alaska Native\" has important legal usage in Alaska and the rest of the United States as a result of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971.\n\nThe term \"Eskimo\" is also used in linguistic or ethnographic works to denote the larger branch of Eskimo–Aleut languages, the smaller branch being Aleut.\n\nThe Eskimo–Aleut family of languages includes two cognate branches: the Aleut (Unangan) branch and the Eskimo branch.\n\nThe number of cases varies, with Aleut languages having a greatly reduced case system compared to those of the Eskimo subfamily. Eskimo–Aleut languages possess voiceless plosives at the bilabial, coronal, velar and uvular positions in all languages except Aleut, which has lost the bilabial stops but retained the nasal. In the Eskimo subfamily a voiceless alveolar lateral fricative is also present.\n\nThe Eskimo sub-family consists of the Inuit language and Yupik language sub-groups. The Sirenikski language, which is virtually extinct, is sometimes regarded as a third branch of the Eskimo language family. Other sources regard it as a group belonging to the Yupik branch.\n\nInuit languages comprise a dialect continuum, or dialect chain, that stretches from Unalakleet and Norton Sound in Alaska, across northern Alaska and Canada, and east to Greenland. Changes from western (Iñupiaq) to eastern dialects are marked by the dropping of vestigial Yupik-related features, increasing consonant assimilation (e.g., \"kumlu\", meaning \"thumb\", changes to \"kuvlu\", changes to \"kublu\", changes to \"kulluk\", changes to \"kulluq\"), and increased consonant lengthening, and lexical change. Thus, speakers of two adjacent Inuit dialects would usually be able to understand one another, but speakers from dialects distant from each other on the dialect continuum would have difficulty understanding one another. Seward Peninsula dialects in western Alaska, where much of the Iñupiat culture has been in place for perhaps less than 500 years, are greatly affected by phonological influence from the Yupik languages. Eastern Greenlandic, at the opposite end of the Inuit range, has had significant word replacement due to a unique form of ritual name avoidance.\n\nThe four Yupik languages, by contrast, including Alutiiq (Sugpiaq), Central Alaskan Yup'ik, Naukan (Naukanski), and Siberian Yupik, are distinct languages with phonological, morphological, and lexical differences. They demonstrate limited mutual intelligibility. Additionally, both Alutiiq and Central Yup'ik have considerable dialect diversity. The northernmost Yupik languages – Siberian Yupik and Naukan Yupik – are linguistically only slightly closer to Inuit than is Alutiiq, which is the southernmost of the Yupik languages. Although the grammatical structures of Yupik and Inuit languages are similar, they have pronounced differences phonologically. Differences of vocabulary between Inuit and any one of the Yupik languages are greater than between any two Yupik languages. Even the dialectal differences within Alutiiq and Central Alaskan Yup'ik sometimes are relatively great for locations that are relatively close geographically.\n\nThe Sirenikski language is sometimes regarded as a third branch of the Eskimo language family, but other sources regard it as a group belonging to the Yupik branch.\nAn overview of the Eskimo–Aleut languages family is given below:\n\nThe Inuit inhabit the Arctic and northern Bering Sea coasts of Alaska in the United States, and Arctic coasts of the Northwest Territories, Nunavut, Quebec, and Labrador in Canada, and Greenland (associated with Denmark). Until fairly recent times, there has been a remarkable homogeneity in the culture throughout this area, which traditionally relied on fish, marine mammals, and land animals for food, heat, light, clothing, and tools. They maintain a unique Inuit culture.\n\nGreenlandic Inuit make up 90% of Greenland's population. They belong to three major groups:\n\nCanadian Inuit live primarily in Nunavut (a territory of Canada), Nunavik (the northern part of Quebec) and in Nunatsiavut (the Inuit settlement region in Labrador).\n\nThe Inuvialuit live in the western Canadian Arctic region. Their homeland – the Inuvialuit Settlement Region – covers the Arctic Ocean coastline area from the Alaskan border east to Amundsen Gulf and includes the western Canadian Arctic Islands. The land was demarked in 1984 by the Inuvialuit Final Agreement.\n\nThe Iñupiat are the Inuit of Alaska's Northwest Arctic and North Slope boroughs and the Bering Straits region, including the Seward Peninsula. Utqiagvik, the northernmost city in the United States, is above the Arctic Circle and in the Iñupiat region. Their language is known as Iñupiaq.\nThe Yupik are indigenous or aboriginal peoples who live along the coast of western Alaska, especially on the Yukon-Kuskokwim delta and along the Kuskokwim River (Central Alaskan Yup'ik); in southern Alaska (the Alutiiq); and along the eastern coast of Chukotka in the Russian Far East and St. Lawrence Island in western Alaska (the Siberian Yupik). The Yupik economy has traditionally been strongly dominated by the harvest of marine mammals, especially seals, walrus, and whales.\n\nThe Alutiiq, also called \"Pacific Yupik\" or \"Sugpiaq\", are a southern, coastal branch of Yupik. They are not to be confused with the Aleut, who live further to the southwest, including along the Aleutian Islands. They traditionally lived a coastal lifestyle, subsisting primarily on ocean resources such as salmon, halibut, and whales, as well as rich land resources such as berries and land mammals. Alutiiq people today live in coastal fishing communities, where they work in all aspects of the modern economy. They also maintain the cultural value of a subsistence lifestyle.\n\nThe Alutiiq language is relatively close to that spoken by the Yupik in the Bethel, Alaska area. But, it is considered a distinct language with two major dialects: the Koniag dialect, spoken on the Alaska Peninsula and on Kodiak Island, and the Chugach dialect, spoken on the southern Kenai Peninsula and in Prince William Sound. Residents of Nanwalek, located on southern part of the Kenai Peninsula near Seldovia, speak what they call Sugpiaq. They are able to understand those who speak Yupik in Bethel. With a population of approximately 3,000, and the number of speakers in the hundreds, Alutiiq communities are working to revitalize their language.\n\n\"Yup'ik\", with an apostrophe, denotes the speakers of the Central Alaskan Yup'ik language, who live in western Alaska and southwestern Alaska from southern Norton Sound to the north side of Bristol Bay, on the Yukon–Kuskokwim Delta, and on Nelson Island. The use of the apostrophe in the name \"Yup'ik\" is a written convention to denote the long pronunciation of the \"p\" sound; but it is spoken the same in other Yupik languages. Of all the Alaska Native languages, Central Alaskan Yup'ik has the most speakers, with about 10,000 of a total Yup'ik population of 21,000 still speaking the language. The five dialects of Central Alaskan Yup'ik include General Central Yup'ik, and the Egegik, Norton Sound, Hooper Bay-Chevak, and Nunivak dialects. In the latter two dialects, both the language and the people are called \"Cup'ik\".\n\nSiberian Yupik reside along the Bering Sea coast of the Chukchi Peninsula in Siberia in the Russian Far East and in the villages of Gambell and Savoonga on St. Lawrence Island in Alaska. The Central Siberian Yupik spoken on the Chukchi Peninsula and on St. Lawrence Island is nearly identical. About 1,050 of a total Alaska population of 1,100 Siberian Yupik people in Alaska speak the language. It is the first language of the home for most St. Lawrence Island children. In Siberia, about 300 of a total of 900 Siberian Yupik people still learn and study the language, though it is no longer learned as a first language by children.\n\nAbout 70 of 400 Naukan people still speak Naukanski. The Naukan originate on the Chukot Peninsula in Chukotka Autonomous Okrug in Siberia.\n\nSome speakers of Siberian Yupik languages used to speak an Eskimo variant in the past, before they underwent a language shift. These former speakers of Sirenik Eskimo language inhabited the settlements of Sireniki, Imtuk, and some small villages stretching to the west from Sireniki along south-eastern coasts of Chukchi Peninsula. They lived in neighborhoods with Siberian Yupik and Chukchi peoples.\n\nAs early as in 1895, Imtuk was a settlement with a mixed population of Sirenik Eskimos and Ungazigmit (the latter belonging to Siberian Yupik). Sirenik Eskimo culture has been influenced by that of Chukchi, and the language shows Chukchi language influences. Folktale motifs also show the influence of Chuckchi culture.\n\nThe above peculiarities of this (already extinct) Eskimo language amounted to mutual unintelligibility even with its nearest language relatives: in the past, Sirenik Eskimos had to use the unrelated Chukchi language as a lingua franca for communicating with Siberian Yupik.\n\nMany words are formed from entirely different roots from in Siberian Yupik, but even the grammar has several peculiarities distinct not only among Eskimo languages, but even compared to Aleut. For example, dual number is not known in Sirenik Eskimo, while most Eskimo–Aleut languages have dual, including its neighboring Siberian Yupikax relatives.\n\nLittle is known about the origin of this diversity. The peculiarities of this language may be the result of a supposed long isolation from other Eskimo groups, and being in contact only with speakers of unrelated languages for many centuries. The influence of the Chukchi language is clear.\n\nBecause of all these factors, the classification of Sireniki Eskimo language is not settled yet: Sireniki language is sometimes regarded as a third branch of Eskimo (at least, its possibility is mentioned). Sometimes it is regarded rather as a group belonging to the Yupik branch.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "179219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179219", "title": "Future Shock", "text": "Future Shock\n\nFuture Shock is a 1970 book by the futurists Alvin and Heidi Toffler, in which the authors define the term \"future shock\" as a certain psychological state of individuals and entire societies. Their shortest definition for the term is a personal perception of \"too much change in too short a period of time\". The book, which became an international bestseller, grew out of an article \"The Future as a Way of Life\" in \"Horizon\" magazine, Summer 1965 issue. The book has sold over 6 million copies and has been widely translated.\n\nA documentary film based on the book was released in 1972 with Orson Welles as on-screen narrator.\n\nThe Tofflers argued that society is undergoing an enormous structural change, a revolution from an industrial society to a \"super-industrial society\". This change overwhelms people. He believed the accelerated rate of technological and social change left people disconnected and suffering from \"shattering stress and disorientation\"—future shocked. The Tofflers stated that the majority of social problems are symptoms of future shock. In their discussion of the components of such shock, they popularized the term \"\"information overload\".\"\n\nThis analysis of the phenomenon of information overload is continued in later publications, especially \"The Third Wave\" and \"\".\n\nIn the introduction to an essay entitled \"Future Shock\" in his book, \"Conscientious Objections\", Neil Postman wrote: \"Sometime about the middle of 1963, my colleague Charles Weingartner and I delivered in tandem an address to the National Council of Teachers of English. In that address we used the phrase \"future shock\" as a way of describing the social paralysis induced by rapid technological change. To my knowledge, Weingartner and I were the first people ever to use it in a public forum. Of course, neither Weingartner nor I had the brains to write a book called \"Future Shock\", and all due credit goes to Alvin Toffler for having recognized a good phrase when one came along\" (p. 162).\n\nAlvin and Heidi distinguished three stages in development of society and production: agrarian, industrial and post-industrial.\n\nAll these waves develops own \"super-ideology” with which explain the reality. This ideology affects all the spheres which make up a civilization phase: technology, social patterns, information patterns and \"power\" patterns.\n\nThe first stage began in the period of the Neolithic Era when people invented agriculture, thereby passing from barbarity to a civilization. A large number of people acted as prosumers (eating their grown food, hunting animals, building their own houses, making clothes...). People traded by exchanging their own goods for commodities of others. The second stage began in England with the Industrial Revolution during which people invented the machine tool and the steam engine. People worked in factories to make money they could spend on goods they needed (it means they produced for exchange, not for use). Countries also created new social systems. The third stage began in the second half of the 20th century in the West when people invented automatic production, robotics and the computer. The services sector attained great value. \n\nThe Tofflers proposed one criterion for distinguishing between industrial society and post-industrial society: the share of the population occupied in agriculture versus the share of city labor occupied in the services sector. In a post-industrial society, the share of the people occupied in agriculture does not exceed 15%, and the share of city laborers occupied in the services sector exceeds 50%. Thus, the share of the people occupied with brainwork greatly exceeds the share of the people occupied with physical work in post-industrial society.\n\nThe third wave led to the Information Era (now). Homes are the dominant institutions. Most people carry on their own production and consumption in their homes or electronic cottages, they produce more of their own products and services and markets become less important for them. People consider each other to be equally free as vendors of prosumer-generated commodities.\n\nAlvin and Heidi Toffler's main thought consists of the fact that modern man feels shock from rapid changes. For example, Toffler's daughter went to shop in New York City and she couldn't find a shop in its previous location. Thus New York has become a city without a history. The urban population doubles every 11 years. The overall production of goods and services doubles each 50 years in developed countries. Society experiences an increasing number of changes with an increasing rapidity, while people are losing the familiarity that old institutions (religion, family, national identity, profession) once provided. The so-called \"brain drain\" – the emigration of European scientists to the United States – is both an indicator of the changes in society and also one of their causes.\n\n\nThe book has been reprinted several times:\n\nCurtis Mayfield's song \"Future Shock\" on the album \"Back to the World\" took its name from this book, and was in turn covered by Herbie Hancock as the title track for his 1983 recording \"Future Shock\". That album was considered groundbreaking for fusing jazz and funk with electronic music. Stanley Clarke performed a song with the same title on his 1984 album Time Exposure. The rock band, BANG released \"Future Shock\" on their self titled Capitol Records release in 1972\n\nIn the 1974 movie \"The Parallax View\" the character Joe relates a story to Lee about a wife having an affair with her psychiatrist and then a bulldozer knocking down his house by calling it \"future shock\".\n\nOther works taking their title from the book include: the \"Futurama\" episode \"Future Stock\"; The Gordons 1981 EP on Flying Nun Records; a segment on \"The Daily Show\" starring Samantha Bee; Kevin Goldstein's recurring column on the \"Baseball Prospectus\" website; a \"\" pre-constructed deck; and the National Wrestling Alliance's 1989 Starrcade event.\n\nSince 1977, UK Comic 2000 AD has run a series of short stories called Future Shocks based on this concept, some of which were written by Alan Moore. The abbreviated derogatory term \"Futsies\" was applied to citizens in 2000 AD stories (mainly in the Judge Dredd universe) who had been driven insane by Future Shock.\n\nWorks deriving themes and elements from Future Shock include the science fiction novels \"The Forever War\" (1974) by Joe Haldeman, \"The Shockwave Rider\" (1975) by John Brunner, the RPG \"Transhuman Space\" (2002) by Steve Jackson Games, and the indie RPG \"\" (2006) by designer Joshua A.C. Newman. Experimental music group Death Grips use the lyric \"Culture shock, future shock, fuck yourself, choke yourself\" in their song \"Culture Shock\".\n\nThe line \"You knocked a future shock crowbar upside my head\" occurs in the track \"The Outsiders\" on the alternative rock band R.E.M.'s 2004 album \"Around the Sun\".\n\nIn 2011, a song titled \"Future Shock\" by Darwin, Obie, and Mr-E appeared on the album \"Nu Nrg 100\", the final installment of the world-renowned label Nu Energy, while Brooklyn-based band TV on the Radio included a song titled \"No Future Shock\" on their album \"Nine Types of Light\". The same year, the Unsound Music Festival in Krakow, Poland took the concept of 'future shock' as its theme.\n\nWilliam Brittelle, the Brooklyn-based composer of pop-influenced electro-acoustic art music, has an album called \"Future Shock\".\n\nThe sense of future shock is an integral aspect of cyberpunk.\n\nFutureshock were also an electronic music duo recording for Junior Boys Own and Parlophone / EMI. The members were Phil Dockerty and Alex Tepper.\n\nThe Future Shock Book was lying on the deceased Wendell Armbruster Sr.'s desk in the 1972 movie Avanti! starring Jack Lemmon.\n\n"}
{"id": "36713094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36713094", "title": "German language in Namibia", "text": "German language in Namibia\n\nNamibia is a multilingual country wherein German is recognised as a national language (a form of minority language). While English is the sole official language of the country since 1990, in many areas of the country German enjoys official status at a community level.\n\nGerman is especially widely used in central and southern Namibia and was until 1990 one of three official languages in what was then South West Africa, alongside Afrikaans and English. German is the main or mother tongue of about 30,000 Namibians, a number composed roughly equally of German Namibians as well as older black speakers of Namibian Black German and Namibians who as children grew up in the German Democratic Republic (East Germany). The German Namibian newspaper \"Allgemeine Zeitung\" on its website refers to 22,000 native speakers and of several hundred thousand who know German as a second (third etc.) language. German benefits from its similarity to Afrikaans and has a prominent position in the tourism and business sectors. Many Namibian natural features, place and street names have German names. However, Germanic linguist Ulrich Ammon sees the future of German in Namibia as threatened.\n\nDuring the period as a German colony from 1884 to 1915 German was the only official language in German Southwest Africa, as Namibia was then known. Boers, i.e. South African whites who spoke Dutch (South African Dutch would later develop into Afrikaans) already lived in the country alongside Orlam tribes and mixed-race Reheboth Basters.\n\nSouth Africa took over administration of the country in 1915. However, German language privileges and education remained in place. In 1916 the \"Allgemeine Zeitung\" newspaper was founded under its original name of \"Der Kriegsbote\". After the end of the First World War the South African attitude to the German Namibians changed, and between 1919 and 1920 about half of the Germans were transferred out of the country. In 1920 Dutch (later to be superseded by Afrikaans) and English replaced German as the official languages of the country.\n\nThe German-speaking population wished German to be reinstated as an official language and in 1932 the Treaty of Cape Town encouraged South Africa to do so. It was hoped that this would throw a spanner in the works against South Africa annexing South West Africa into the Union of South Africa. South Africa did not officially recognise German; however, de facto German was added to Afrikaans and English as a working language of the government. Only in 1984 would German officially be added as an official language.\n\nAfter independence in 1990, English became the sole official language of Namibia, and German thus lost its official status, but German today continues to be used in a wide range of spheres of Namibian life.\n\nGerman is more widely used than may be assumed by its lack of official status. About 31,000 Namibians speak German as a mother tongue, and several tens of thousands of Namibians, either white native speakers of English or Afrikaans or well-to-do black Namibians, speak German as a second language. German is taught in many schools, and is the medium for a daily newspaper, the \"Allgemeine Zeitung\", as well as daily programming on the Namibian Broadcasting Corporation. Although German (and for that matter English) is not common as a mother tongue among the black population, a number of public servants especially in the tourism sector speak German to various degrees.\n\nHowever, there are many spheres in which the German language is not or barely present at all — spheres with a small number of white people, especially in the north part of the country, but also in many neighbourhoods of Windhoek.\n\nGerman is used as a medium of communication in a wide range of cultural spheres:\n\nIn addition to 32 schools in which about 14,000 pupils learn German as a foreign language, there are about a dozen German-medium schools, including the Deutsche Höhere Privatschule Windhoek (DHPS), German schools in Omaruru and Otjiwarongo as well as five government schools. There are several additional elementary schools, German-medium high schools and a German-medium \"Gymnasium\" in Windhoek.\nThe University of Namibia offers German-medium programs in German studies and business administration.\n\nSigns for shops, restaurants and services are often in English and German, reflecting not only a high proportion of German-Namibian ownership but also the high number of German-speaking tourists that visit the country. However, a customer entering such as shop may well be greeted in Afrikaans; relatively fewer signs are in Afrikaans but the language retains a leading position as a spoken lingua franca in Windhoek and throughout the central and southern parts of the country.\n\nGerman is also found on signs for tourists, especially those to monuments and historic buildings from the German colonial period. Other signs that include German date back before 1990, when English, Afrikaans and German shared status as official languages of the country.\n\nIn Windhoek, Swakopmund, Keetmanshoop, Grootfontein and Lüderitz many or most street names are German in origin, even though after 1990 many streets were renamed to honor black Namibian people. (See for example List of former Swakopmund street names). Streets named before 1990 often end in \"Str.\", the standard abbreviation in German for \"Straße\", and in Afrikaans for \"straat\"; streets renamed since 1990 often end in \"St.\", implying the English abbreviation for \"Street\".\n\nUnlike other parts of the world with large German immigration and large numbers of German place names, Namibia never experienced a wave of place-name changes. Especially in the south, in the regions of Hardap and Karas, about 80% of all place names are either German, Afrikaans, or a mix of German or Afrikaans with English. Examples include \"Keetmanshoop\" (after German industrialist \"Johann Keetman\" and the Afrikaans word for \"hope\", \"hoop\".\n\nThe German language as spoken in Namibia is characterised by simplification and the adoption of many words from Afrikaans, English, and Ovambo and other Bantu languages. This variant of German is called variously \"Südwesterdeutsch\" (German \"südwest\", southwest, referring to the country's former name, South West Africa); while younger people also call it \"Namsläng\" (i.e. Namibian slang) or \"Namlish\".\n\nabkommen (v.)\n\nAlte (w.)\n\nAlter (m.)\n\nanbellen (v.)\n\nanders (adj.)\n\naussortieren (v.)\n\nBaas (m.)\n\nBakkie (m.) \n\nbedonnert (adj.)\n\nbesser auch (Redew.)\n\nbiekie oder bikkie (adv.)\n\nbleddy (adv.) \n\nBokkie (s.)\n\nBraai [] (m.)\n\nbraain [] (v.)\n\nBrack (m.) \n\nBuschveld oder Buschfeld (s.)\n\nDamm (m.) \n\nDämpers (subst. pl.)\n\nDeutschländer oder Jerry, Gerry (m.)\n\nDonga (w.)\n\nDrankwinkel (m.)\n\neingeben (v.)\n\nerinnern (v.)\n\nfangen (v.) \n\nfestkehren [] (v.)\n\nfischen (v.)\n\nFutsek! [] (interj.)\n\ngehen (v.)\n\nhändeln (v.)\n\nHeck (s.)\n\nIst das? \"oder\" Isses?\n\njobben [, ] (v.)\n\nJunge (m.)\n\nKack (m.)\n\nkalben (v.)\n\nKamp (s.)\n\nKlippe (w.)\n\nKombi (m.)\n\nkriegen (v.)\n\nlekker oder lecker (adv.)\n\nLokassie (w.)\n\nLorrie (w.)\n\nmall (adj.)\n\nManga (s.)\n\nMorro-tse! (interj.)\n\nmors (adv.)\n\nmorschen (v.)\n\nNaafi oder Nafi (m. und w.)\n\nnet oder nett [] (adv.)\n\nnochall (konj.)\n\nNüffel (m. und w.)\n\nOukie [, ] (m.)\n\nPad (w.)\n\nPip (w.)\n\nPontok oder Pondok (m.)\n\nposten (v.)\n\nPovian (m.)\n\nRamme (m.)\n\nRegenzeit (w.)\n\nRivier (s.)\n\nRobot (m.)\n\nrollen (v.)\n\nSterbe (w.)\n\nstief [] (adv.)\n\nStift [] (m.)\n\nStorch [] (m.)\n\nTrockenzeit oder Kalte Zeit (w.)\n\nTüffie (m.)\n\nUitlander [] (m.)\n\nVarsity (w.)\n\nVeld (s.)\n\nVlei oder (hapax) Vley [] (w.)\n\nwarm (adj.)\n\nWellblech (s.)\n\nWerft (w.)\n\nWinkel (m.)\n\nwundern (v.)\n\nwüst (adv.)\n\nzu (adv.)\n\nzünden (v.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34606344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34606344", "title": "Hema (actress)", "text": "Hema (actress)\n\nHema is a character actresses in Telugu film industry colloquially referred to as Tollywood in Tollywood comedian and character artist who has acted in more than 250 films.\n\nBorn as Krishna Veni in a family from Razole, East Godavari district. She studied till seventh class and discontinued her studies.\n\nKrishna Veni had an interest in films right from her childhood and after acting in some, she got married. She had started her second innings in film with \"Murari\" and she is continuing her film career these days. She had changed her name to Hema after coming to film industry.\n\nIn 2014, Hema participated in and lost the Andhra Pradesh general elections from Mandapeta constituency for Jai Samaikyandhra Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "959954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=959954", "title": "Henrietta Barnett", "text": "Henrietta Barnett\n\nDame Henrietta Octavia Weston Barnett, DBE (\"née\" Rowland; 4 May 1851 – 10 June 1936) was a notable English social reformer, educationist, and author. She and her husband, Samuel Augustus Barnett, founded the first \"University Settlement\" at Toynbee Hall (in the East End of London) in 1884. They also worked to establish the model Hampstead Garden Suburb in the early 20th century.\n\nBorn in Clapham, London, Henrietta Octavia Weston Rowland lost her mother (Henrietta Monica Margaretta Ditges) at an early age. Her father, Alexander William Rowland, a wealthy businessman associated with the Macassar Oil Company, raised her and seven siblings at their London home and a country house in Kent, where she developed a lifelong appreciation of country pursuits. One of her sisters was the philanthropist Alice Hart.\n\nAt age 16, Henrietta was sent to a boarding school in Devon run by the Haddon sisters, who, influenced by James Hinton, were committed to social altruism. When her father died in 1869, Henrietta moved with two sisters to Bayswater, where she met and helped social activist and housing reformer Octavia Hill. Hill introduced Henrietta to the writings of John Ruskin, as well as many influential people similarly interested in improving the condition of London's poor.\n\nThrough Hill, Henrietta met Canon Samuel Barnett, then the curate of St Mary's, Bryanston Square. They married in 1873. The newlyweds soon moved to the impoverished Whitechapel parish of St Jude's, intent on improving social conditions. Henrietta continued her parish visiting activities, with a focus on women and children, including the more than 2,000 prostitutes then active in Whitechapel alone. In 1875, Henrietta became a woman guardian for the parish, and the following year was named a school manager for the Poor Law district schools in Forest Gate. Another social initiative which the Barnetts helped set up was the Metropolitan Association for Befriending Young Servants (1876), with Jane Senior; the organisation aimed to prevent girls from becoming prostitutes, criminals or alcoholics, and provided domestic servants. The Barnetts' experiment in sending slum children for country holidays grew into the Children's Fresh Air Mission (Off to the Country), established in 1877, becoming the Children's Country Holidays Fund in 1884. Henrietta Barnett promoted Homes for Workhouse Girls starting in 1880, and founded the London Pupil Teachers Association in 1891. She also served as vice-president of the National Association for the Welfare of the Feeble-Minded (1895) and National Union of Women Workers (1895–96).\n\nIn 1884, the Barnetts established (and began living at) Toynbee Hall, a pioneering university settlement named after the recently deceased distinguished historian Arnold Toynbee, who had advocated education of the working classes and reduction of the division between social classes. In 1897 annual loan exhibitions of fine art began at the nearby Whitechapel Gallery through the Barnetts' efforts. In 1903 Richard Tawney began working with them, the Children's Country Holiday Fund, and the Workers' Educational Association. William Beveridge and Clement Attlee also worked with the Barnetts as they started their own careers. A visit to Toynbee Hall inspired Jane Addams to found Hull House in Chicago.\nIn 1889 the activist couple acquired a weekend home at Spaniard's End in the Hampstead area of north-west London. The Barnetts became inspired by Ebenezer Howard and the model housing development movement (then exemplified by Letchworth garden city), as well as protecting part of nearby Hampstead Heath from development by Eton College. In 1904, they established trusts which bought 243 acres of land along the newly opened Northern line extension to Golders Green. This became the Hampstead Garden Suburb, a model garden city developed through their efforts and those of architects Raymond Unwin and Sir Edwin Lutyens and which ultimately grew to encompass over 800 acres. In 1909, an adult education institute opened in the middle of the new Hampstead Garden Suburb, with cultural programmes and discussion groups. Soon a school for girls was established and named the Henrietta Barnett School.\n\nAlthough the suburb was never completely developed according to Lutyens's plan (and soon became a middle class enclave rather than a mixture of classes), it did include Grade I listed St Jude's Church, as well as a clubhouse and a tea house (for non-alcoholic social focus), a Quaker meeting house, children's homes, a nursery school, and housing for old people. \n\nThe Barnetts never had children of their own. They adopted Dorothy Woods, and Henrietta also served as legal guardian for her brain-damaged elder sister, Fanny. After Samuel died in 1913, Henrietta founded Barnett House at Oxford (1914) in his memory. She helped it become the university's centre for social work and social policy education.\n\nBarnett wrote several books, alone and with her husband. Their Christian Socialist beliefs are set out in \"Practicable Socialism\" (1889) and \"Toward Social Reform\" (1909).\n\nHer early books concerned domestic issues: \"The Making of the Home\" (1885), \"How to Mind the Baby,\" (1887) and, written with her husband and Ernest Abraham Hart (her brother-in-law), \"The Making of the Body\" (1894). With Kathleen Mallam, Henrietta Barnett also edited a collection of essays entitled \"Destitute, Neglected, and Delinquent Children\" (Pan-Anglican papers, 1908). After her husband's death, Henrietta Barnett finished their \"Illustrated British Ballads Old and New\" (1915), wrote his multi-volume biography, \"Canon Barnett: his life, work and friends\" (1918) as well as published collections of essays, most notably \"Matters that Matter\" (1930). \n\nFor her work as a social reformer, Barnett was named a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1917, and elevated to Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) in 1924. In 1920, she was named honorary president of the 480 member American Federation of Settlements.\nFor the final dozen years of her life, Henrietta Barnett took up painting and often lived at 45 Wish Road, Hove (today marked by a blue plaque).\n\nShe died at Hampstead in 1936 (aged 85) and is buried (with Samuel) in the churchyard of St Helen's Church, Hangleton, East Sussex.\n\nThe Barnetts are jointly remembered on 17 June on the liturgical calendar of the Church of England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4754899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4754899", "title": "Holt Coffey", "text": "Holt Coffey\n\nHolt Coffey (August 2, 1891 – January 1964) was the sheriff of Platte County, Missouri from 1933 until 1937 and again from 1941 until 1945. Coffey, along with newly elected Platte City Prosecutor David Clevenger, was responsible for cleaning up much of the small-time crime around Platte County, a suburb of freewheeling Kansas City, Missouri.\n\nOn July 18, 1933, during Coffey's first term as sheriff, Bonnie and Clyde and three other gang members checked into the Red Crown Tourist Court south of Platte City. The conspicuous behavior of the gang caught Coffey's and others' interest, and on July 20, a ferocious firefight between the Barrows and thirteen officers injured both Coffey and his sixteen-year-old son Clarence. While Clarence suffered a wound in his arm that at one time was considered life-threatening, the elder Coffey sought no treatment for his minor wounds. The Barrows escaped and were cornered and engaged again by another posse five days later in Iowa.\n\nAn expert marksman, Coffey was also a one-time minor-league baseball player. The Coffey family maintained a close relationship with Blanche Barrow, sister-in-law of Clyde, with Blanche claiming the Coffeys were more kind than her own family.\n\nCoffey went on to own and operate the Red Crown Tavern from 1945 to 1950. He became a county commissioner in 1956. He died at age 72 in 1964.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38483819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38483819", "title": "Iduna language", "text": "Iduna language\n\nIduna is an Austronesian language spoken on Goodenough Island of Milne Bay Province of Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "23580019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23580019", "title": "James Robert Cummins", "text": "James Robert Cummins\n\nJames Robert Cummins or Cummings, aka: \"Windy Jim\" (January 31, 1847 – July 9, 1929) was an American criminal.\n\nCummins lived near Kearney, Missouri and rode with Quantrill's Raiders during the Civil War, most often assigned to follow \"Bloody\" Bill Anderson. A known horse thief, he joined up with the James-Younger Gang after the war and was involved in the train robberies at Winston and Blue Cut, Missouri. After the breakup of the James Gang, he became a farmer in Arkansas and actually tried to turn himself in several times, but no one believed he was really Jim Cummins. At the age of 63 he married Florence Sherwood and lived to an old age.\n\nIn 1903 he published a memoir of his time with the James-Younger gang, \"Jim Cummins' Book Written by Himself, The Life Story of the James and Younger Gang and Their Comrades, Including the Operations of Quantrell's Guerrillas, By One Who Rode With Them: A True But Terrible Tale of Outlawry.\" He died in the Old Soldiers Home at Higginsville Missouri on July 9, 1929.\n"}
{"id": "22363138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22363138", "title": "Kele language (Congo)", "text": "Kele language (Congo)\n\nThe Kele language, or Lokele, is a Bantu language spoken in the Democratic Republic of the Congo by the Kele people.\n\nFoma (\"Lifoma\") is a dialect.\n\n"}
{"id": "14061728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14061728", "title": "Khuen people", "text": "Khuen people\n\nThe Khuen people are an aboriginal ethnic group of Laos.\n\nThe Khuen have appeared in research under several different English spellings including Khuen, Kuan, Kuanhua, Kween, Khween, and Khouen.\n\nThe Khuen speak a language also called Khuen, which is a Khmuic language. The Khmuic languages are Austro-Asiatic. There is some debate as to whether the Khmuic languages are of the Mon-Khmer branch, but the majority opinion is that they are not.\n\n\nAs a fellow member of the larger Khmuic ethnic group, many aspects of Khuen culture are similar to the Khmu. Family names are usually the names of sacred animals or plants. It is taboo for a Khuen person to touch the animal or plant that bears his or her family name.\n\nIn addition to Theravada Buddhism, they also worship a hierarchy of demons and ghosts. Ancestor worship is also practiced.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "8967590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8967590", "title": "Khwarshi language", "text": "Khwarshi language\n\nKhwarshi (also spelled \"Xvarshi, Khvarshi\") is a Northeast Caucasian language spoken in the Tsumadinsky-, Kizilyurtovsky- and Khasavyurtovsky districts of Dagestan by the Khwarshi people. The exact number of speakers is not known, but the linguist Zaira Khalilova, who has carried out fieldwork in the period from 2005 to 2009, gives the figure 8,500. Other sources give much lower figures, such as Ethnologue with the figure 1,870 and the latest population census of Russia with the figure 1,872. The low figures are because many Khwarshi have registered themselves as being Avar speakers, which is also considered their literary language.\n\nThere are six dialects of the Khwarshi language based on their geographical distribution. The dialects are: Upper- and Lower Inkhokwari Khwarshi, Kwantlada Khwarshi, Santlada Khwarshi, Khwayni Khwarshi and Khwarshi Proper, originating in their respective villages in the Tsumadinsky district. Due to emigration, see the Khwarshi people and their history, Kwantlada Khwarshi-, Upper- and Lower Inkhokwari Khwarshi-speaking communities also exist in Oktyabrskoe, Santlada Khwarshi-speaking communities exist in Pervomayskoe and Khwarshi Proper-speaking communities exist in Mutsalaul.\n\nThe phoneme inventory of Khwarshi is large, with about 87 distinct phonemes. Notable phonological processes include assimilation, vowel harmony, and nasalization occurring. The syllabic structure of Khwarshi is also quite simple, with (C)V(C) being the most common structure, of which V(C) is only permitted word-initially.\n\nKhwarshi has a total number of 21 vowel phonemes, including vowel length and nasalization.\n\nAll the vowels above also have a long counterpart, which are always in stressed syllables. All vowels can occur in closed syllables (i.e. (C)VC), and all except occur in open syllables (i.e. (C)V). does not occur in the Khwarshi Proper and Inkhokwari dialects.\n\n\nKhwarshi has 66 consonants:\n\nIt is not clear whether is present in Khwarshi or not, as Zaira Khalilova does not include it in her chart of consonants, but nevertheless provides a minimal pair indicating there is a distinction between and : \"touch\" and \"fly\". Therefore, it is shown in parentheses in the chart above.\n\nAll the consonants can be found in native vocabulary, but some of them are however more rare than others, and some are mostly found in loanwords, such as which almost only occur in loanwords of Arabic origin. Another example is , found only in loanwords of Avar origin.\n\nThe palatalized consonant and all the pharyngealized consonants are not found in Khwarshi Proper, but can be found in all the other dialects. Consider for instance the Khwarshi Proper word \"drunk\", which in the other dialects is .\n\nGemination is quite a common phonological process in Khwarshi, caused by grammatical processes. Gemination only occurs intervocally and not all consonants geminate. Which consonants that geminate is different according to which processes they are a part of, and it depends on the dialect as well.\n\nBelow is a list of some of the processes causing gemination:\n\n\nIn loanwords, geminated consonants are normally non-geminated, when adopted into the Khwarshi language. For example, the Avar word \"mosquito\" is found as in Khwarshi. The same goes for words of Tindi origin such as \"small\", which is found as in Khwarshi. Another interesting aspect of loanwords of Tindi origin in the Khwarshi language is that the consonants are ejectivized when they enter the Khwarshi language, e.g. Tindi \"small intestine\" > Khwarshi .\n\nKhwarshi nouns inflect for case, of which there are 51, and number, singular or plural, and belong to one of five genders, or rather noun classes. That a noun belongs to a specific class cannot be seen on the noun itself, but only through agreement.\n\nThere are five noun classes in the singular, but only a distinction between \"human\" and \"non-human\" in the plural, the \"male human\" and \"female human\" having merged into \"human\", and the remaining classes into \"non-human\".\n\n\nThe noun classes are visible through agreement in adjectives, adverbs, postpositions and demonstrative pronouns, and also verbs if the verb begins with a vowel. There are, however, some exceptions, like with irregular verbs in other languages. Below are some examples of such agreement in postpositions, demonstrative pronouns, verbs and adjectives, respectively. Notice however, that a verb is present in all of the examples but the first, while the third example has a special focus on verbs.\n\nAs the noun class of a noun cannot be seen on the noun itself, it should not be represented in a literal translation. In the examples above, however, the noun class of certain nouns is shown, albeit in superscript to indicate that it is not represented in the original Khwarshi sentence. The only nouns that have their noun classes indicated here are those with which the other words agree with.\n\nThere are 8 grammatical cases in Khwarshi, and 43 locative cases. The grammatical cases are: absolutive, ergative, two genitive, instrumental, durative, vocative and causal. The remaining cases, the locative cases, are a bit more complex, as they each consist of both a part that has something to do with orientation and a part that has something to do with direction. So while the ergative case has a single suffix /-(j)i/, the superversative case consists of two suffixes, the superessive /-t͡ɬʼo/ plus the versative /-ʁul/, becoming /-t͡ɬʼoʁul/.\n\nBelow are the case endings of the grammatical cases.\n\n\nBelow are the case endings of the locative cases.\n\nKhwarshi verbs normally consist of a stem, an agreement prefix indicating noun class and number of the relevant nouns, and a suffix showing tense, aspect, mood, or the like. Only about one fourth of the Khwarshi verbs show agreement, all of them beginning with a vowel. There is a small number of verbs beginning with a vowel that do not show agreement. Verbs beginning with a consonant do not show agreement.\n\nThe verbs are very regular in Khwarshi, the only irregular verb being the auxiliary verb /goli/ \"to be\", which takes neither a prefix nor a suffix and has only several non-finite forms. In the past- and future tense, however, the verb /-et͡ʃ-/ \"to be situated\" is used instead of /goli/, which may take both a prefix and a suffix.\n\n"}
{"id": "12976220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12976220", "title": "List of largest selling pharmaceutical products", "text": "List of largest selling pharmaceutical products\n\nDrugs with sales above $5 billion in 2015 included:\n\nFor the fourth quarter of 2013, the largest selling drugs were:\n\n"}
{"id": "2221118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221118", "title": "Luxembourgers", "text": "Luxembourgers\n\nLuxembourgers ( ) are a Germanic ethnic group native to Luxembourg who share the culture of Luxembourg, speak Luxembourgish and are of Luxembourgish descent. \n\nLuxembourgers were, much like Austrians, historically considered to be a regional subgroup of ethnic Germans and viewed themselves as such until the collapse of the German Confederation. Luxembourg became independent, while remaining in personal union with the Netherlands, after the signing of the Treaty of London in 1839. The personal union proved short-lived as it was bilaterally and amicably dissolved in 1890.\n\nLegally, all citizens of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are considered to be \"Luxembourgers\" per Luxembourgish law, although a distinct Germanic ethnolinguistic identification is vocally espoused and promoted. The corresponding adjective is \"Luxembourgish\".\n\nMost ethnic Luxembourgers live in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, a small country in Europe between Germany, France, and Belgium, and are of Celtic/Gallo-Roman and Germanic (Frankish) origin. Most speak Luxembourgish, as their native language, in addition to French and German. Despite the rather small number of Luxembourgers, there is a relatively large diaspora, in Europe and elsewhere. Particularly, there are populations in the surrounding countries of Belgium, France, and Germany. For the most part, this is due to historic reasons, especially the three Partitions of Luxembourg, which led to former territories of Luxembourg being incorporated into each of the three surrounding countries.\n\nThere are also significant populations in the Americas, with the largest contingent being in the United States. However, many people of Luxembourgish descent live in Canada and Brazil, to which large waves of Luxembourgers emigrated in the nineteenth century, as did Germans at the same time. Others migrated to Hungary along with Germans during the first phase of German eastward settlement in the 12th century. Transylvanian Saxons and Banat Swabians are the descendants of these settlers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35631618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35631618", "title": "Mantle of João VI", "text": "Mantle of João VI\n\nThe Mantle of João VI, also known as the Mantle of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil, and the Algarves (Portuguese: Manto de João VI; Manto do Reino Unido de Portugal, do Brasil, e dos Algarves), is the royal robe, a part of the Portuguese Crown Jewels, that was fashioned for the acclamation of King João VI, alongside the Crown of João VI and the Sceptre of the Armillary.\n\nThe Mantle of João VI was created for the acclamation of João VI as King. It was fashioned in Portugal, even though João VI was in Brazil, for Portugal was encaged in the Peninsular War. The robe was only used only by João VI.\n\nThe mantle was made in Portugal for João VI's acclamation. It is fashioned out of velvet, silk, ermine, wire rod, sequins, and various precious jewels. The design of the robe bears several symbols of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil, and the Algarves, for which João VI was monarch of during João VI's stay in Brazil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19732797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19732797", "title": "Marya", "text": "Marya\n\nThe Marya are a tribe in western Eritrea. They are mostly shepherds and farmers they inhabit the middle valley of the Anseba River in the Keren District. There split into two clans Marya qeyih and marya tselam. Their related to the Mensa,hazo and Tora.\n"}
{"id": "172275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172275", "title": "Mecklenburgisch dialect", "text": "Mecklenburgisch dialect\n\nMecklenburgisch (\"Mecklenborgsch\" or \"Mäkelborgsch\") is a Low German (Low Saxon) dialect group used predominantly in the Mecklenburg area of today’s North German state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.\n\nThere is no sharp dividing line between its western dialects and adjacent Northern Low Saxon dialects on the one hand and between its eastern dialects and dialects of Western Pomerania on the other hand. Thus, although the Mecklenburg group is traditionally considered an East Low German group, it is in fact a link between eastern and western dialects. Its Western Slavic substrata do not seem to be as strong as those of dialects spoken farther east. A striking eastern characteristic is the use of the diminutive suffix \"-ing\" (e.g. \"Poot\" ‘paw’ > \"Pöting\" ‘little paw’, \"Änning\" ‘Annie’, \"lies’\" ‘quietly’, ‘softly’, ‘slowly’ > \"liesing\" ‘very quietly’, ‘very softly’, ‘very carefully’, ‘nice and easy’). This suffix is most likely derived from West Slavic varieties once spoken in the area (cf. diminutive \"-inka\" in other Slavic languages).\n\n"}
{"id": "38832463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38832463", "title": "National Health and Family Planning Commission", "text": "National Health and Family Planning Commission\n\nNational Health and Family Planning Commission of the People's Republic of China (NHFPC) was the executive agency under the State Council which is responsible for providing information, raising health awareness and education, family planning, ensuring the accessibility of health services, monitoring the quality of health services provided to citizens and visitors in the mainland, population and family planning in the People's Republic of China. In March 2018, the ministry was dissolved and its functions were integrated into the new agency called the National Health Commission.\n\nThe Ministry is created from the former Ministry of Health and National Population and Family Planning Commission. This was announced at the 2013 National People's Congress.\n\nSince 16 March 2013, the commission is headed by Li Bin.\n\nThe commission reports directly to the State Council. Its functions include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27016573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27016573", "title": "Nature–culture divide", "text": "Nature–culture divide\n\nThe nature–culture divide refers to a theoretical foundation of contemporary anthropology. Early anthropologists sought theoretical insight from the perceived tensions between nature and culture. Later, the argument became framed by the question of whether the two entities function separately from one another, or if they were in a continuous biotic relationship with each other.\n\nIn eastern society nature and culture are conceptualized as dichotomous (separate and distinct domains of reference). Some consider culture to be \"man's secret adaptive weapon\" in the sense that it is the core means of survival. \nIt has been observed that the terms \"nature\" and \"culture\" that can not necessarily be translated into non-western languages, for example, the Native American John Mohawk describing \"nature\" as \"anything that supports life\".\n\nIt has been suggested that small scale-societies can have a more symbiotic relationship with nature. But less symbiotic relations with nature are limiting small-scale communities' access to water and food resources. It was also argued that the contemporary Man-Nature divide manifests itself in different aspects of alienation and conflicts. \nGreenwood and Stini argue that agriculture is only monetarily cost-efficient because it takes much more to produce than one can get out of eating their own crops, e.g. \"high culture cannot come at low energy costs\".\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s Sherry Ortner showed the parallel between the divide and gender roles with women as nature and men as culture.\n\nThe nature-culture divide is deeply intertwined with the social versus biological debate, since it both are implications of each other. As viewed in earlier forms of Anthropology, it is believed that genetic determinism de-emphasizes the importance of culture, making it obsolete. However, more modern views show that culture is valued more than nature because everyday aspects of culture have a wider impact on how the humans see the world, rather than just our genetic makeup. Older anthropological theories have separated the two, such as Franz Boas, who claimed that social organization and behavior is purely the transmission of social norms and not necessarily the passing of hereditable traits. Instead of using such a contrasting approach, more modern anthropologists see Neo-Darwinism as an outline for culture, therefore nature is essentially guiding how culture develops. When looking at adaptations. anthropologists such as Daniel Nettle believe that behavior associated with cultural groups is a development of genetic difference between groups. Essentially, he states that animals choose their mates based on their environment, which is shaped by directly by culture. More importantly, the adaptations seen in nature are a result of evoked nature, which is defined as cultural characteristics which shape the environment and that then queue changes in phenotypes for future generations. To put simply, cultures that promote more effective resource allocation and chance for survival are more likely to be successful and produce more developed societies and cultures that feed off of each other.\n\nOn the other hand, transmitted culture can be used to bridge the gap between the two even more, for it uses a trial and error based approach that shows how humans are constantly learning, and that they use social learning to influence individual choices. This is seen best about how the more superficial aspects of culture still are intertwined with nature and generic variation. For example, there are beauty standards intertwined into culture because they are associated with better survival rates, yet they also serve personal interests which allows for individual breeding pairs to understand how they fit into society. Additionally, cultural lags dissolve because it is not sustainable for reproduction, and cultural norms that benefit biology continue to persevere. By learning from each other, nature becomes more intertwined with culture since they reinforce each other.\n\nSince nature and culture are now viewed as more intertwined than ever before, which makes the divide between the two seems obsolete. Similarly, the social scientists have been reluctant to use biological explanations as explantations for cultural divisions because it is difficult to construct what what ‘biological’ explanations entail. According to social scientists like Emile Durkheim, anthropologists and especially sociologists have tended to characterize biological explanations in only a physiological and cognitive sense within individuals, not in a group setting. On the other hand, there is a heavier focus on the social determinism as seen in human behavior instead. Furthermore, even as divide between nature and culture has been narrowed there is a reluctance to define biological determinism on a large scale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53611653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53611653", "title": "Nevado de Acay", "text": "Nevado de Acay\n\nNevado de Acay is a mountain in Argentina. It is a volcanic intrusion that formed during the Miocene and was later exposed. The intrusion is formed by monzonite and is associated with a fault system that also connects to neighbouring volcanoes.\n\nWhile not presently glaciated, it contains a seasonal snowpack and is the source of several streams and rivers, including the Rio Salado. A number of archeological sites have been found on Nevado de Acay and mining activity occurred there until recent times.\n\nNevado de Acay is , or high. It lies in the La Poma Department of Argentina's Salta Province. It is part of the Cuesta del Acay mountains and their highest summit. The Calchaqui valley extends south from Nevado de Acay.\n\nIt is formed by monzonite that was generated 12.6 ± 0.3 million years ago, along the Calchaqui fault. It originally formed as an intrusion that was exposed about 12.61 ± 0.25 million years ago. Another date is 26 million years ago, which would make it contemporaneous with the disintegration of the Farallon Plate and the following increase in subduction and volcanic activity. Yet another older date is 18.9 million years ago.\n\nEmplaced within the Precambrian-Cambrian Puncoviscana formation, the Nevado de Acay monzonite contains biotite, diorite, hornblende, magnetite, monzodiorite, pyroxene, titanite and tonalite. Skarn and mineral deposits formed within the monzonite as well.\n\nLocated close to the Negra Muerta volcanic complex, it is a volcanic system associated with the Calama-Olacapato-El Toro fault system. Other volcanoes such as Aguas Calientes and Incahuasi Sur are associated with this fault system.\n\nCirques indicate the presence of former glaciers. The present-day snowline lies at an altitude of ; rock glaciers fed by avalanches exist on Nevado de Acay in Pleistocene glacier valleys. Nevado de Acay is covered in snow only during the winter months, although summer storms can also deposit snow on it; during the dry season the mountain is bare.\n\nThe originates on Nevado de Acay and flows south, as does the Rio Juramento. Other waterbodies originating on Nevado de Acay are the Arroyo Pircas, a tributary to the Rio Juramento, Arroyo Tastil which flows into Arroyo del Toro, which also originates on Nevado de Acay and eventually flows into the Arroyo Arias; Arroyo Arias in turn also drains into the Juramento. Most streams in the area are fed with meltwater. The mountains form the drainage divide; water flowing to the west eventually ends up in various endorheic basins. The Rio Los Patos also originates on Nevado de Acay and archeological sites are found on its river terraces, and it converges with the Rio San Antonio de los Cobres, which likewise originates on Nevado de Acay as Rio Organullo and after passing close to San Antonio del los Cobres and receiving the Quebrada Potrerillos carries the name of the town, and eventually reach Salinas Grandes where they evaporate.\n\n\"Liolaemus multicolor\", an iguanid lizard, has been found on Nevado de Acay. Endorheic basins in the valleys on Nevado de Acay were an important resource for the Las Cuevas V archeological site, which belongs to a cultural horizont between 600 BC - 400 AD.\n\nNevado de Acay is the site of an Inka mountain sanctuary. A summit sanctuary was discovered in 2000; later two additional sites were discovered on the subsidiary summits Blanca and Navaja. Some historical references to the mountain indicate that it was the connection between the Inka province Chicoana and the Puna, although the Abra del Acay is not the only place to which these historical records may refer. The present day National Route 40 passes close to the mountain.\n\nThe mountaintop was not the sole site of human activity at Nevado de Acay; traces of mining and pastoral activity among others has been found lower on its slopes as well. At least 53 structures have been identified at elevations between . Historical records exist of a site named \"San Bernardo de Acay\" south of Nevado de Acay. The archeological structures of Nevado de Acay are still only incompletely understood.\n\nSome of these mines reported in 1907 are known as \"Flor de Desierto\", \"Protectora\", \"Resurreccion\" and \"Saturno\" - the last owner of these mines obtained them in 1924. Mining activity including gold and silver is reported to have occurred in the area during the time of Spanish rule and ended only during the 1656 rebellion of Pedro Bohórquez; the Spanish efforts on these mines may have been the reason why the rebellion occurred in the region. Later an iron mine was active on the northern slope but it is now abandoned. Obsidian outcrops have been observed in the area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56284789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56284789", "title": "Ogun Festival", "text": "Ogun Festival\n\nOgun Festival is an annual festival observed by the Yoruba people of Ondo State, Nigeria in honour of Ogun, a warrior and powerful spirit of metal work believed by the Yoruba to be the first god to arrive on earth.\n\nAccording to Yoruba mythology, Ogun was a King and the father of Oranmiyan, and the first person to arrive on earth; he used a cutlass and a dog to clear the road for the arrival of other deities. He is also said to have given the finishing touches to the first set of humans created by Obatala, the Yoruba god of creation.\nHis festival is usually held around August or September in Ondo State and parts of Ekiti state.\n\nPreparation for the festival begin seventeen days in advance. The chief priest announces the sighting of the new moon (which must be sighted before beginning the festival) by blowing the \"upe\" (local trumpet) for seven days. Nine days after the sighting of the new moon, the king sends an emissary to officially announce the ceremony. Preparations for the festival include the repairing of bridges and clearing of footpaths. The festival continues with a vigil called Ilagun, Asoro or aisun ogun which takes place three days before the Ogun day. The blacksmiths of the city of Ife donate new cutlasses, hoes and bell gongs, and the shrine is beautified with palm fronds, cowries and other items. Libation is then poured, a ritual dance is conducted around the shrine, and prayers are offered. Dogs are prepared for sacrifice.\nThe festival reaches a frenzy during the last three days. The dog which is the main centre of the festival is slaughtered on the first of these days. Two people moving in opposite directions pull the dog towards themselves hence forcing it to a slow and painful death. Sometimes the High priest kills the dog by striking it with a machete before it actually dies. The blood of the dog is then mixed with salt, kolanuts, palm wine and palm oil, and poured over the working tools of the worshipers which are gathered in a bowl; this is believed to protect them from trouble and bring about abundant profits. Ogun is the patron of those who make use of metals in their everyday work, such as blacksmith, drivers, mechanics and surgeons. The festival can also be held anywhere as the high priest sometimes celebrates the festival at Abuja without not following the usual seventeen-day order.\n"}
{"id": "14461204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14461204", "title": "Prostitution in Uruguay", "text": "Prostitution in Uruguay\n\nProstitution in Uruguay was legislated in 2002 through the sex work law (17.515). Before that, prostitution was unlegislated but it was not illegal, since the constitution allows any activity that is not forbidden by law. Prostitution is currently not a subject of debate.\n\nUNAIDS estimate there to be 8,195 prostitutes in Uruguay.\n\nUruguay's Law no. 17.515 of 2002 - \"Trabajo Sexual Se Dictan Norma\" (Sexual Work Standards Are Dictated) - explicitly states sex work is legal and provides regulations that must be adhered to. It also obliges the government to advise sex workers of their rights and duties, support them against exploitation and provide sexual health information.\n\nThe law set up a confidential National Registry of Sex Workers. Sex works must enrol on the National Registry, this demands an initial and periodical health checks focus in the prevention, detection and treatments of sexually transmitted diseases. The register gives the worker a license which is necessary to work in brothels. Article 31 of the law provides penalties for selling sex without a health card, and their names are placed on the register.\n\nLocal authorities may, in consultation with sex workers, set up local sex work areas. These must not be near educational establishments and be sensitive to local opinions. The local authority may also set working hours and dictate dress code and behaviour.\n\nBrothels and commercial sex bars are permitted provided they have the agreement of local police and are licensed. Sex may not be sold in massage establishments.\n\nThe law established a \"National Honorary Commission for the Protection of Sex Work\", and two sex workers sit on the commission.\n\nIn 1995, the Banco de Previsión Social (state-owned Uruguayan social security institute) recognised sex work by women. In 2009 a law was passed that recognised men and transwomen in sex work.\n\nThe prostitution of a minor (person under the legal age of consent) is prohibited and the authorities have the obligation of protect them from sexual exploitation and prostitution. \n\nDespite this, many sex workers work on the streets or independently and not always have health checks.\n\nProstitution must be performed in brothels (in Uruguay they have many euphemistic names like “whiskerias” or “casas de masajes”). Usually brothels use a red light as distinctive, or have discrete announcements with the name of the establishment and a suggestive phrase to attract clients.\n\nIn order to open, a brothel must have the authorization of the municipal government and the state police and follow certain rules dictated by the Ministry of Public Health. Police and municipal government are in charge of determining in which areas brothels may exist considering the characteristics of the place. However brothels may not function near schools or high schools.\n\nMinors are not allowed to enter brothels, in addition to performing any kind of activity inside.\n\nAs any commercial establishment brothels pay taxes and have social security obligations.\n\nViolation to the sex work law is punishable with fines. Pimping, commercial sexual exploitation of adults and minors is illegal and severely punished. The government often lunches campaigns to persuade tourists and residents of hiring or promoting minors prostitution.\n\nThere is a presence of Dominican prostitutes in Uruguay who took advantage of a formerly liberal immigration policy.\n\nThe aforementioned sex labour law created the \"Comisión Nacional Honoraria de Protección al Trabajo Sexual\" (National Honorary Commission for Protection of Sexual Work) within the Ministry of Public Health, whose aim is to advise Executive Branch on this matter, watch over the fulfillment of the law, provide counseling to sex workers and promote sexual education courses and campaigns on the matter.\n\nThere was a trade union named \"Asociación de Meretrices Profesionales del Uruguay\", created in 1986, which comprised about 1200 women sex workers affiliates and whose purpose was the cooperation between sex workers, the defense of their rights, carrying out workshops and promote the prevention of STDs and HIV. Even received support from the UNFPA. However it was dissolved in early 2015 under accusations of corruption of its president and vicepresident, including misappropriation of donated lands intended for HIV-infected women and donated goods for beneficiaries.\n\nUruguay is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Uruguayan women and girls—and to a more limited extent transgender adults and male adolescents—are subjected to sex trafficking within the country. Uruguayan women and LGBTI individuals are forced into prostitution in Spain, Italy, Argentina, and Brazil; however, the number of identified Uruguayan victims exploited abroad has decreased in recent years. Women from the Dominican Republic, and to a lesser extent from South American countries, are subjected to sex trafficking in Uruguay. Uruguayan officials have identified citizens of other countries, including China and the Dominican Republic, transiting Uruguay en route to other destinations, particularly Argentina, as potential victims of sex trafficking.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Uruguay as a 'Tier 2' country.\n\n"}
{"id": "1583847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1583847", "title": "Pökoot language", "text": "Pökoot language\n\nPökoot (also known as \"Pokot\", \"Päkot\", \"Pökot\", and in older literature as \"Suk\") is a language spoken in western Kenya and eastern Uganda by the Pokot people. Pökoot is classified to the northern branch of the Kalenjin languages found in Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania. The Pökoot are usually called \"Kimukon\" by the other Kalenjin peoples. A 1994 figure of SIL puts the total number of speakers at 264,000, while the only little more recent Schladt (1997:40) gives the more conservative estimate of 150,000 people, presumably based on the figures found in Rottland (1982:26) who puts the number at slightly more than 115,000.\n\nThe Pökoot area is bordered to the north by the Eastern Nilotic language Karimojong. Turkana, another Eastern Nilotic language, is found to the northeast. To the east, the Maa languages Samburu and Camus (on Lake Baringo) are spoken, and to the south, the other Kalenjin languages Tugen and Markweta are found, which show considerable influence from Pökoot.\n\n"}
{"id": "34048942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34048942", "title": "Race Against the Machine", "text": "Race Against the Machine\n\nRace Against the Machine is a non-fiction book from 2011 by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee about the interaction of digital technology, employment and organization. The full title of the book is: \"Race Against the Machine: How the Digital Revolution Is Accelerating Innovation, Driving Productivity, and Irreversibly Transforming Employment and the Economy\".\n\nThe main thesis of this book is that we are in the midst of a technological revolution that is radically redefining what work is, how value is created, and how the economy distributes that value. The authors stumbled upon these ideas after analyzing the unique economic recovery that followed the Great Recession of 2008. When the recession ended, many measures of economic health (such as GDP, corporate profits, and investment in equipment and software) rebounded quickly; however, one measure, unemployment, lagged behind. This observation led the authors to conclude that a drastic shift in the means of production was taking place. The authors believe that technology is causing this shift, simultaneously boosting the productivity of firms while also eliminating the need for many forms of human labor. As the authors came to this conclusion, they looked around to see if anyone else had begun to analyze this trend. When they found that technology was largely being left out of the mainstream discussion of unemployment, they decided that they would write this book to help get the ball rolling. One supporting point in the book is that the pace of automation has picked up in recent years due to a combination of increasingly clever technologies such as robotics, numerically controlled machines, computerized inventory management software, speech recognition, speaker recognition, language translation, self-driving vehicles, pattern recognition and online commerce. The authors write that businesses are increasingly substituting machines for people, and that rate at which digital technologies are advancing is exponentially higher than that of the organizations, institutions, and individuals within our economy. Additionally, the corporate use of equipment and software is increasing faster than the rate than employment.\n\nBrynjolfsson and McAfee write that advanced digital technologies are making people more innovative, productive and richer, both in the short- and long-term, but potentially at the cost of increasing wealth inequality in society. In the authors' view, one of the main in-egalitarian consequences of digital technological developments is its potentially negative impact on some types of employment, such as routine information processing work. The authors appear to advocate for a collaborative partnership between computers and humans as the road to future job creation. \"In medicine, law, finance, retailing, manufacturing and even scientific discovery,\" they write, \"the key to winning the race is not to compete \"against\" machines but to compete \"with\" machines.\"\n\nGiven the advancement of technology, the authors have several recommendations for policymakers in the United States to increase economic prosperity, including:\n\nLike Jeremy Rifkin's book \"The End of Work\", \"The Race against the Machine\" has been criticized for lacking credible evidence in making predictions about future job loss. Recent research suggest the invention and distribution of computers during the 1990s increased employment, rather than decreased it. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36397250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36397250", "title": "Ratchet knife", "text": "Ratchet knife\n\nRatchet knife in Jamaica is a general type of folding knife, generally German-made, considered easy to open quickly and associated with \"rude boy\" masculinity, the Okapi being a favourite brand.\n"}
{"id": "36173953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36173953", "title": "Seattle Freeze", "text": "Seattle Freeze\n\nThe term Seattle Freeze refers to a widely held belief that it is especially difficult to make new friends in the city of Seattle, Washington, particularly for transplants from other cities. A 2005 \"Seattle Times\" article appears to be the first known use of the term, though a 1946 \"Seattle Daily Times\" excerpt also describes the phenomenon.\n\nNewcomers to the area have described Seattleites as being standoffish, cold, distant, and distrustful, while in settings such as bars and parties, people from Seattle tend to mainly interact with their particular clique. One author described the aversion to strangers as that \"people are very polite but not particularly friendly.\" While some residents dispute the existence of the Seattle Freeze, a 2008 peer-reviewed study published in \"Perspectives on Psychological Science\" found that among all 50 states, Washington residents ranked 48th in the personality trait extroverted. In 2014 a similar report by the Seattle CityClub ranked the population 48th out of 50 similarly-sized cities in activities such as \"talking with neighbors frequently\". The rapid growth of Amazon and its accompanying influx of largely young, male technology workers may have exacerbated the problem.\n\nIt has been speculated that the origin of the phenomenon could stem from the reserved personalities of the city's early Nordic and Asian immigrants. Other reasons may include the emotional effects of the climate (such as Seasonal Affective Disorder), or the region's history of independent-minded pioneers.\n\n"}
{"id": "13475824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13475824", "title": "Serbs in Greece", "text": "Serbs in Greece\n\nSerbs in Greece (, ) is a community of Greek nationals of ethnic Serb descent and Serbian-born Greek nationals. They number more than 15,000 people, while according to the 2001 census some 5,200 people born in Serbia have Greek citizenship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27360673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27360673", "title": "Singoalla (film)", "text": "Singoalla (film)\n\nSingoalla is a 1949 Swedish-French film directed by Christian-Jaque, starring Viveca Lindfors and Alf Kjellin. It is a visually stunning film with a haunting score, based on the romantic novel \"The Wind Is My Lover\" by Viktor Rydberg. The story is based on a medieval legend of the love between a gypsy and a nobleman. It was produced in three language versions: Swedish, French, and English. The Swedish and French versions were entitled Singoalla. The English version had three titles: Gypsy Fury (USA), The Wind is My Lover (UK), and The Mask and the Sword (UK). The Swedish and English versions starred Alf Kjellin as the nobleman, but the French version starred Michel Auclair. All three versions were edited separately – even scoring is slightly different. The Swedish and French run over 100 minutes, the English only 63 minutes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5434077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5434077", "title": "Social reformers of India", "text": "Social reformers of India\n\nA social reformer is anyone who advocates for reform of a certain area of society. Crusader and meliorist are used as general synonyms for social reformers. Different types of reformers. Abolitionists, or emanipisits for example were social reformers who focused on putting an end to slavery.A social reformer is anyone who advocates for reform of a certain area of society. Crusader and meliorist are used as general synonyms for social reformers. Different types of reformers. Abolitionists, or emanipisits for example were social reformers who focused on putting an end to slavery.A social reformer is anyone who advocates for reform of a certain area of society. Crusader and meliorist are used as general synonyms for social reformers. Different types of reformers. Abolitionists, or emanipisits for example were social reformers who focused on putting an end to slavery.\nNotable social reformers in India include: \n\nShankracharya\n\n\n\nA social reformer is anyone who advocates for reform of a certain area of society. Crusader and meliorist are used as general synonyms for social reformers. There were different types of reformers. Abolitionists, or emanipisits for example were social reformers who focused on putting an end to slavery."}
{"id": "512519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512519", "title": "Strip poker", "text": "Strip poker\n\nStrip poker is a party game and a variation of the traditional poker where players remove clothing when they lose a round. Any form of poker can be adapted to a strip form; however, it is usually played with simple variants with few betting rounds, like five-card draw. Strip poker can be played by single-sex groups or by mixed groups in social situations and intended to generate an atmosphere of fun, and to lighten the social atmosphere by the removal of clothing. Sometimes the game is played to heighten the sexual atmosphere, though the game itself is regarded as non-sexual. Like other adult or adolescent party games, activities besides removing clothing and playing cards might be involved. (\"Truth or Dare?\" type options are often included.) Strip poker has also been adapted for a person to play alone, either by use of video games or online; and several television shows have been based on the game.\n\nIn some rule sets, players who fold before the flop are not required to remove clothing. As such, a player who is uncomfortable removing clothing (or, more commonly, a player who does not want to remove all their clothing first) can simply fold very often or every time before the flop, essentially playing a \"tight\" pre-flop strategy. Using this strategy, a player could stay clothed for the entire game simply by folding their hands.\n\nStrip poker requires a different overall strategy from poker played with betting chips since the maximum loss on a hand of strip poker is (typically) one item of clothing. In a betting environment, a player who stays in the pot with a weak hand is liable to lose many chips in a single hand. In strip poker, the risk of staying in a hand is significantly limited, so players can play hands with lower probabilities than they would in a cash game. For example, in a cash game, because it occurs only 8% of the time, an inside straight draw might be a poor hand to play, hence the saying \"Never draw to an inside straight.\" In strip poker, when the potential loss is only one item of clothing whether you fold or call, an 8% chance to win the hand is better than the alternative.\n\nWhile it has been suggested that strip poker originated in New Orleans in the United States around the same time as original poker in the 19th century, played in brothels, the term is only attested since 1916. Strip poker most likely began as a prank among boys, and as late as the 1930s, the current mixed-gender version was called \"mixed strip poker\" in England to differentiate it from the all-male variety.\n\nStrip poker games are presented in a number of films, including:\n\nStrip poker based television shows include:\n\nStrip poker productions on pay per view or DVD often feature pinup models. Examples include:\nBoth examples featured \"Playboy\" models, World Wrestling Entertainment models and other pinup models in a no-limit Texas Hold'em competition. \"National Lampoon's Strip Poker\" was filmed at the Hedonism II resort in Negril, Jamaica. \"Strip Poker Invitational\" productions were filmed in Las Vegas. Both productions aired on Pay-Per-View in 2005.\n\nStrip poker on music video:\n\nIn 1982, an American computer game company, Artworx, produced a \"Strip Poker\" game for the Apple II computer. It has been ported to many other computers since then, and is still available today. Many others followed. Strip poker is featured as an Easter Egg in the Windows 8 card suite Card Hero.\n\nAs with all forms of poker, strip poker also has variations. Recently, strip poker has been available online. One can visit one of these sites, choose a male or female opponent, and play strip poker. In this game strip poker online or a strip poker web cam game is conducted using virtual chips. The first player pays only for the time spent in the private poker room. Usually this game is played between two players, the girl from the site and the strip poker site visitor. Both players can communicate with each other through web cams. Game rules can be varied; usually the players discuss them before the game begins.\n\n\"Video Strip Games\" is becoming a popular addition to online game websites with the introduction of higher speed internet connections. This includes video: strip poker, blackjack, pool, darts, hangman, etc. The list goes on. This was not really a viable solution to stream the games in the past because of high bandwidth costs and slow performance. Even mobile devices can play video strip games with almost no issues.\n\nMany other games besides poker have \"strip\" variants. In particular, many \"strip mahjong\" video games have been published, especially by Japanese software companies. In 2013, the concept of Strip Sports Betting was launched in the United States by creating live internet broadcasts using models and pornstars who bet on football games and take their clothes off as they lose.\n\n"}
{"id": "35267441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35267441", "title": "Tech@State", "text": "Tech@State\n\nTech@State is the name of a series of quarterly conferences run by the U.S. Department of State that bring together individuals in the technology sector and foreign policy experts with the aim of exploring new ways of incorporating technologies into diplomacy and development.\n"}
{"id": "32208610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32208610", "title": "Telugu grammar", "text": "Telugu grammar\n\nThe first treatise on Telugu grammar ( \"vyākaranam\"), the \"Andhra Shabda Chintamani\" was written in Sanskrit by Nannayya, who was considered as the first poet and translator of Telugu in the 11th century A.D. After Nannayya, Atharvana and Ahobala composed sutras, vartikas and bhashyam.\n\nIn the 19th century, Chinnaya Suri wrote a simplified work on Telugu grammar called \"Bāla Vyākaranam\", borrowing concepts and ideas from Nannayya's Andhra Shabda Chintamani, and wrote his literary work in Telugu.\n\nAccording to Nannayya, language without 'Niyama' or the language which doesn't adhere to Vyākaranam is called Grāmya or Apabhraṃśa and hence it is unfit for literary usage. All the literary texts in Telugu follows Vyākaranam.\n\nTelugu is more inflected than the other literary Dravidian languages. Telugu nouns are inflected for number (singular, plural), gender (masculine, feminine, and neuter) and case (nominative, accusative, genitive, dative, vocative, instrumental, and locative).\n\nTelugu has three genders:\n\nIn Telugu the suffix (–Du) is almost always indicative of masculine gender. \nFor example: \n\nHowever, there are more masculine nouns that do not end in (-Du). \nFor example: \n\nSome masculine nouns ending in (Du) can be converted to feminine nouns by deleting the (–Du) suffix and adding a suffix (-I).\n\nSome masculine names ending in (Du) can be converted to Feminine names by deleting the (Du) and adding the suffix (rAlu). \nIn Telugu the suffix (–Mu) or (-Am) or (-u) is almost always indicative of the neuter gender. For example: \n\nHowever, Telugu sometimes uses the same forms for singular feminine and neuter genders – the third person pronoun (అది ) is used to refer to animals and objects.\n\nAny thing in singular form is singular (\"ekavachanam\").\nAny things more than one in number are called plural (\"bahuvachanam\").\n\nIn Telugu the plural is also used to address elders with respect. Some nouns are always plural and some are always singular. For example, water (\"neellu\") is always plural.\n\nGod (\"bhagavantudu\"), sun (\"suryudu\"), earth (\"bhoomi\"), and moon (\"chandrudu\") are always singular form. \nHowever, \"Devullu\" is a plural form of \"bhagavantudu\", used when referring to multiple deities.\n\nTelugu has eight cases.\n\nTelugu pronouns include: \nThe primary word order of Telugu is SOV (subject–object–verb)\nThis sentence can also be interpreted as 'Ram will go to school' depending on the context. But it does not affect the SOV order.\nTelugu uses single and double vertical bars to indicate a comma and a full stop. However modern Telugu uses punctuation marks which are borrowed from English.\n\nSandhi is the fusion of sounds across word boundaries and the alteration of sounds due to neighboring sounds or due to the grammatical function of adjacent words.\n\nTelugu uses morphological processes to join words together, forming complex words. These processes are traditionally referred to as sandhi.\nExample, \"Shankara\" + \"Abharanam\" gives the word \"shankarabharanamu\".\n\nThere are many types of sandhi in Telugu. Some of them are mentioned below: \n\nSamasam or samasa occurs with various structures, but morphologically speaking they are essentially the same: each noun (or adjective) is in its (weak) stem form, with only the final element receiving case inflection.\n\nSome of the Telugu samasams are:\n\nTelugu Alankaram is a figure of speech which means ornaments or embellishments which are used to enhance the beauty of the poems. There are two types of Alankarams, 'Shabdalankaram' which primarily focuses on Sound and 'Arthalamkaram' which focuses on meaning. These two alankarams are further broken down in to different categories. \nshabdalankaras are 6 types where as there are nearly 30 to 40 types in ardhalankaras.\n\nMetrical poetry in Telugu is called 'Chandassu' or 'Chandas'. ya-maa-taa-raa-ja-bhaa-na-sa-la-gam is called the chandassu chakram. Utpalamala, Champakamala, Mattebha vikreeditham, Sardoola Vikreeditham, Kanda, Aata veladi, Theta geethi, Sragdhara, Bhujangaprayata, etc. are some metrics used in Telugu poetry.\n\nTelugu has many Tatsama words. They are called Prakruti, which are equivalent to Sanskrit words. The equivalent colloquial words are called Vikruti, which means distorted. However, Prakruti is only used as a medium of instruction in educational institutions, offices etc.\nFor example: \n"}
{"id": "3088001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3088001", "title": "Ten Acre Observatory", "text": "Ten Acre Observatory\n\nTen Acre Observatory (TAO) is a public astronomical observatory owned and operated by Nick Lazzaro and used as its primary viewing site by the Odyssey Astronomy Club. It is located near Tribbey, Oklahoma (USA).\n"}
{"id": "387457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387457", "title": "Thermohaline circulation", "text": "Thermohaline circulation\n\nThermohaline circulation (THC) is a part of the large-scale ocean circulation that is driven by global density gradients created by surface heat and freshwater fluxes. The adjective \"thermohaline\" derives from \"thermo-\" referring to temperature and \"\" referring to salt content, factors which together determine the density of sea water. Wind-driven surface currents (such as the Gulf Stream) travel polewards from the equatorial Atlantic Ocean, cooling en route, and eventually sinking at high latitudes (forming North Atlantic Deep Water). This dense water then flows into the ocean basins. While the bulk of it upwells in the Southern Ocean, the oldest waters (with a transit time of around 1000 years) upwell in the North Pacific. Extensive mixing therefore takes place between the ocean basins, reducing differences between them and making the Earth's oceans a global system. On their journey, the water masses transport both energy (in the form of heat) and mass of substances (solids, dissolved substances and gases) around the globe. As such, the state of the circulation has a large impact on the climate of the Earth.\n\nThe thermohaline circulation is sometimes called the ocean conveyor belt, the great ocean conveyor, or the global conveyor belt. On occasion, it is used to refer to the meridional overturning circulation (often abbreviated as MOC). The term \"MOC\" is more accurate and well defined, as it is difficult to separate the part of the circulation which is driven by temperature and salinity alone as opposed to other factors such as the wind and tidal forces. Moreover, temperature and salinity gradients can also lead to circulation effects that are not included in the MOC itself.\n\nThe movement of surface currents pushed by the wind is fairly intuitive. For example, the wind easily produces ripples on the surface of a pond. Thus the deep ocean—devoid of wind—was assumed to be perfectly static by early oceanographers. However, modern instrumentation shows that current velocities in deep water masses can be significant (although much less than surface speeds). In general, ocean water velocities range from fractions of centimeters per second (in the depth of the oceans) to sometimes more than 1 m/s in surface currents like the Gulf Stream and Kuroshio.\n\nIn the deep ocean, the predominant driving force is differences in density, caused by salinity and temperature variations (increasing salinity and lowering the temperature of a fluid both increase its density). There is often confusion over the components of the circulation that are wind and density driven. Note that ocean currents due to tides are also significant in many places; most prominent in relatively shallow coastal areas, tidal currents can also be significant in the deep ocean. There they are currently thought to facilitate mixing processes, especially diapycnal mixing.\n\nThe density of ocean water is not globally homogeneous, but varies significantly and discretely. Sharply defined boundaries exist between water masses which form at the surface, and subsequently maintain their own identity within the ocean. But these sharp boundaries are not to be imagined spatially but rather in a T-S-diagram where water masses are distinguished. They position themselves above or below each other according to their density, which depends on both temperature and salinity.\n\nWarm seawater expands and is thus less dense than cooler seawater. Saltier water is denser than fresher water because the dissolved salts fill interstices between water molecules, resulting in more mass per unit volume. Lighter water masses float over denser ones (just as a piece of wood or ice will float on water, see buoyancy). This is known as \"stable stratification\" as opposed to unstable stratification (see Brunt-Väisälä frequency) where denser waters are located over less dense waters (see convection or deep convection needed for water mass formation). When dense water masses are first formed, they are not stably stratified, so they seek to locate themselves in the correct vertical position according to their density. This motion is called convection, it orders the stratification by gravitation. Driven by the density gradients this sets up the main driving force behind deep ocean currents like the deep western boundary current (DWBC).\n\nThe thermohaline circulation is mainly driven by the formation of deep water masses in the North Atlantic and the Southern Ocean caused by differences in temperature and salinity of the water.\n\nThe great quantities of dense water sinking at high latitudes must be offset by equal quantities of water rising elsewhere. Note that cold water in polar zones sink relatively rapidly over a small area, while warm water in temperate and tropical zones rise more gradually across a much larger area. It then slowly returns poleward near the surface to repeat the cycle. The continual diffuse upwelling of deep water maintains the existence of the permanent thermocline found everywhere at low and mid-latitudes. This model was described by Henry Stommel and Arnold B. Arons in 1960 and is known as the Stommel-Arons box model for the MOC. This slow upward movement is approximated to be about 1 centimeter (0.5 inch) per day over most of the ocean. If this rise were to stop, downward movement of heat would cause the thermocline to descend and would reduce its steepness.\n\nThe dense water masses that sink into the deep basins are formed in quite specific areas of the North Atlantic and the Southern Ocean. In the North Atlantic, seawater at the surface of the ocean is intensely cooled by the wind and low ambient air temperatures. Wind moving over the water also produces a great deal of evaporation, leading to a decrease in temperature, called evaporative cooling related to latent heat. Evaporation removes only water molecules, resulting in an increase in the salinity of the seawater left behind, and thus an increase in the density of the water mass along with the decrease in temperature. In the Norwegian Sea evaporative cooling is predominant, and the sinking water mass, the North Atlantic Deep Water (NADW), fills the basin and spills southwards through crevasses in the submarine sills that connect Greenland, Iceland and Great Britain which are known as the Greenland-Scotland-Ridge. It then flows very slowly into the deep abyssal plains of the Atlantic, always in a southerly direction. Flow from the Arctic Ocean Basin into the Pacific, however, is blocked by the narrow shallows of the Bering Strait.\n\nIn the Southern Ocean, strong katabatic winds blowing from the Antarctic continent onto the ice shelves will blow the newly formed sea ice away, opening polynyas along the coast. The ocean, no longer protected by sea ice, suffers a brutal and strong cooling (see polynya). Meanwhile, sea ice starts reforming, so the surface waters also get saltier, hence very dense. In fact, the formation of sea ice contributes to an increase in surface seawater salinity; saltier brine is left behind as the sea ice forms around it (pure water preferentially being frozen). Increasing salinity lowers the freezing point of seawater, so cold liquid brine is formed in inclusions within a honeycomb of ice. The brine progressively melts the ice just beneath it, eventually dripping out of the ice matrix and sinking. This process is known as brine rejection.\n\nThe resulting Antarctic Bottom Water (AABW) sinks and flows north and east, but is so dense it actually underflows the NADW. AABW formed in the Weddell Sea will mainly fill the Atlantic and Indian Basins, whereas the AABW formed in the Ross Sea will flow towards the Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe dense water masses formed by these processes flow downhill at the bottom of the ocean, like a stream within the surrounding less dense fluid, and fill up the basins of the polar seas. Just as river valleys direct streams and rivers on the continents, the bottom topography constrains the deep and bottom water masses.\n\nNote that, unlike fresh water, seawater does not have a density maximum at 4 °C but gets denser as it cools all the way to its freezing point of approximately −1.8 °C. This freezing point is however a function of salinity and pressure and thus −1.8 °C is not a general freezing temperature for sea water (see diagram to the right).\n\nFormation and movement of the deep water masses at the North Atlantic Ocean, creates sinking water masses that fill the basin and flows very slowly into the deep abyssal plains of the Atlantic. This high-latitude cooling and the low-latitude heating drives the movement of the deep water in a polar southward flow. The deep water flows through the Antarctic Ocean Basin around South Africa where it is split into two routes: one into the Indian Ocean and one past Australia into the Pacific.\n\nAt the Indian Ocean, some of the cold and salty water from the Atlantic—drawn by the flow of warmer and fresher upper ocean water from the tropical Pacific—causes a vertical exchange of dense, sinking water with lighter water above. It is known as overturning. In the Pacific Ocean, the rest of the cold and salty water from the Atlantic undergoes haline forcing, and becomes warmer and fresher more quickly.\n\nThe out-flowing undersea of cold and salty water makes the sea level of the Atlantic slightly lower than the Pacific and salinity or halinity of water at the Atlantic higher than the Pacific. This generates a large but slow flow of warmer and fresher upper ocean water from the tropical Pacific to the Indian Ocean through the Indonesian Archipelago to replace the cold and salty Antarctic Bottom Water. This is also known as 'haline forcing' (net high latitude freshwater gain and low latitude evaporation). This warmer, fresher water from the Pacific flows up through the South Atlantic to Greenland, where it cools off and undergoes evaporative cooling and sinks to the ocean floor, providing a continuous thermohaline circulation.\n\nHence, a recent and popular name for the thermohaline circulation, emphasizing the vertical nature and pole-to-pole character of this kind of ocean circulation, is the meridional overturning circulation.\n\nDirect estimates of the strength of the thermohaline circulation have been made at 26.5°N in the North Atlantic since 2004 by the UK-US RAPID programme. By combining direct estimates of ocean transport using current meters and subsea cable measurements with estimates of the geostrophic current from temperature and salinity measurements, the RAPID programme provides continuous, full-depth, basinwide estimates of the thermohaline circulation or, more accurately, the meridional overturning circulation.\n\nThe deep water masses that participate in the MOC have chemical, temperature and isotopic ratio signatures and can be traced, their flow rate calculated, and their age determined.\nThese include Pa / Th ratios.\n\nThe Gulf Stream, together with its northern extension towards Europe, the North Atlantic Drift, is a powerful, warm, and swift Atlantic ocean current that originates at the tip of Florida, and follows the eastern coastlines of the United States and Newfoundland before crossing the Atlantic Ocean. The process of western intensification causes the Gulf Stream to be a northward accelerating current off the east coast of North America. At about , it splits in two, with the northern stream crossing to northern Europe and the southern stream recirculating off West Africa. The Gulf Stream influences the climate of the east coast of North America from Florida to Newfoundland, and the west coast of Europe. Although there has been recent debate, there is consensus that the climate of Western Europe and Northern Europe is warmer than it would otherwise be due to the North Atlantic drift, one of the branches from the tail of the Gulf Stream. It is part of the North Atlantic Gyre. Its presence has led to the development of strong cyclones of all types, both within the atmosphere and within the ocean. The Gulf Stream is also a significant potential source of renewable power generation.\n\nAll these dense water masses sinking into the ocean basins displace the older deep water masses that were made less dense by ocean mixing. To maintain a balance, water must be rising elsewhere. However, because this thermohaline upwelling is so widespread and diffuse, its speeds are very slow even compared to the movement of the bottom water masses. It is therefore difficult to measure where upwelling occurs using current speeds, given all the other wind-driven processes going on in the surface ocean. Deep waters have their own chemical signature, formed from the breakdown of particulate matter falling into them over the course of their long journey at depth. A number of scientists have tried to use these tracers to infer where the upwelling occurs.\n\nWallace Broecker, using box models, has asserted that the bulk of deep upwelling occurs in the North Pacific, using as evidence the high values of silicon found in these waters. Other investigators have not found such clear evidence. Computer models of ocean circulation increasingly place most of the deep upwelling in the Southern Ocean, associated with the strong winds in the open latitudes between South America and Antarctica. While this picture is consistent with the global observational synthesis of William Schmitz at Woods Hole and with low observed values of diffusion, not all observational syntheses agree. Recent papers by Lynne Talley at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Bernadette Sloyan and Stephen Rintoul in Australia suggest that a significant amount of dense deep water must be transformed to light water somewhere north of the Southern Ocean.\n\nThe thermohaline circulation plays an important role in supplying heat to the polar regions, and thus in regulating the amount of sea ice in these regions, although poleward heat transport outside the tropics is considerably larger in the atmosphere than in the ocean. Changes in the thermohaline circulation are thought to have significant impacts on the Earth's radiation budget. Insofar as the thermohaline circulation governs the rate at which deep waters are exposed to the surface, it may also play an important role in the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. While it is often stated that the thermohaline circulation is the primary reason that Western Europe is so temperate, it has been suggested that this is largely incorrect, and that Europe is warm mostly because it lies downwind of an ocean basin, and because of the effect of atmospheric waves bringing warm air north from the subtropics. However, the underlying assumptions of this particular analysis have likewise been challenged.\n\nLarge influxes of low-density meltwater from Lake Agassiz and deglaciation in North America are thought to have led to a shifting of deep water formation and subsidence in the extreme North Atlantic and caused the climate period in Europe known as the Younger Dryas.\n\nIn 2005, British researchers noticed that the net flow of the northern Gulf Stream had decreased by about 30% since 1957. Coincidentally, scientists at Woods Hole had been measuring the freshening of the North Atlantic as Earth becomes warmer. Their findings suggested that precipitation increases in the high northern latitudes, and polar ice melts as a consequence. By flooding the northern seas with lots of extra fresh water, global warming could, in theory, divert the Gulf Stream waters that usually flow northward, past the British Isles and Norway, and cause them to instead circulate toward the Equator. If this were to happen, Europe's climate would be seriously impacted.\n\nDownturn of AMOC (Atlantic meridional overturning circulation), has been tied to extreme regional sea level rise.\n\nIn 2013, an unexpected significant weakening of the THC led to one of the quietest Atlantic hurricane seasons observed since 1994. The main cause of the inactivity was caused by a continuation of the spring pattern across the Atlantic basin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44560419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44560419", "title": "Türkbank scandal", "text": "Türkbank scandal\n\nThe Turkbank scandal was a political scandal in 1998 surrounding the relationship between the Turkish government, the private sector, and organized crime that led to the resignation of the prime minister Mesut Yılmaz and his cabinet in early 1999. It took place during the privatization process of Türk Ticaret Bankası (TTB), aka Türkbank.\n\nEstablished as a regional bank by private investors under the name \"Adapazarı İslam Ticaret Bankası\" in 1913, Türkbank became the first private bank of Turkey. Following the Turkish financial crisis, which blew up in January 1994, and the devaluation of the Turkish currency at hundred percent, the bank weakened, which operated 274 branches and employed 4,532 staff nationwide at that time. The bank was taken under control by the Treasury in May of the same year. The bank's 84.52% stake was taken over by the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund of Turkey (, TMSF) for sale in a public tender.\n\nThe TMSF requested for tender on May 4, 1998. On May 18, Police of Istanbul applied to the State Security Court () to obtain a permission to eavesdrop businessman Korkmaz Yiğit's mobile phone for the length of one month due to reasonable grounds on his existing ties with and money transfer to organized crime.\n\nOn August 4, Yiğit's construction company with his Bank Ekspres placed the highest bid of US$600 million for the majority stake, followed by US$595 million of Zorlu Holding controlling Denizbank. Right after the accomplishment of the tender process, the police notified the TMSF in writing about the relationship between Yiğit and the mob boss Alaattin Çakıcı, and Çakıcı's thraetening other bidders of the tender.\nKorkmaz Yiğit (born 1943) was a self-made businessman, who owned two banks, two newspapers and three television channels at that time, all acquired not a long time ago. Alaattin Çakıcı (born 1953), a former member of the ultra-nationalist organization Grey Wolves and one of the leading mobs of the Turkish underworld, was a fugitive since 1992, sought for several crimes. Çakıcı had connection with businessman Erol Evcil, who had tried to purchase Türkbank in 1995.\n\nOn August 17, 1998, Çakıcı was apprehended in France upon request by the Turkish Police, and extradited to Turkey. Fikri Sağlar, a deputy of the Republican People's Party (CHP) in the opposition and a former Minister of Culture, received a recording tape by mail on August 29, which contained a conversation between Yiğit and Çakıcı about the Türkbank tender. On October 8, Sağlar submitted the recording tape to his friend Tuncay Özkan, the news director of Kanal D, for broadcasting on the TV. As Kanal D did nothing in the meantime, Sağlar disclosed the private conversation at a press conference on October 13. Thereupon, the TMSF annulled the tender for Türkbank sale on October 15, 1998.\n\nYiğit was taken to the Organized Crime Department of Istanbul Police, where he presented a testimony of five pages on November 12, in which he confessed all his connections and unlawful doings related to the tender process. The scandal spread over to the politics when some information from Yiğit's testimony leaked to the public. It became apparent that Prime minister Mesut Yılmaz and Minister of State responsible for Economy Güneş Taner were involved in the scandal. Yiğit claimed that \"Yılmaz and Taner encouraged him to buy Türkbank, and offered him loans from other state banks to ensure that his bid was the highest\". He was arrested, tried and imprisoned, losing all his assets during this time.\nRight after the political scandal emerged, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey formed a parliamentary investigation committee. Yılmaz was invited to testify before the committee. The coalition cabinet led by Yılmaz was brought to fall by motion of no confidence on January 11, 1999.\n\nAfter hearing several politicians and journalists, the parliamentary committee prepared an investigative report, which blamed Yılmaz for conspiring to rig bids on tender. However, the report became obsolate due to the upcoming 1999 general election to be held on April 18. After the 2002 general election on November 3, the Justice and Development Party (AKP) and CHP both pushed the suspended corruption cases, including the Türkbank scandal. On December 9, 2002, a parliamentary committee was formed, which heard further witnesses involved in the tender process, and investigated the allegations against Yılmaz and Taner once again. Accomplished on June 25, 2004, the thousands-page report concluded Yılmaz and Taner of bid rigging, and proposed their trial at the Constitutional Court of Turkey (), which is the supreme court for trials of high-ranking politicians in Turkey.\n\nThe parliament assembly accepted the report by 429 votes in favour of the total 447 present in the 550-seat parliament (276 votes would have been sufficient) on July 13, 2004. Yılmaz asked for his trial before the independent Constitutional Court. On July 23, the Constitutional Court rejected the submission on the grounds that the case has to be separated for both defendants. The parliament decided on October 27 to send the two politicians separately to the Constitutional Court. Mesut Yılmaz became so the first prime minister ever to stand trial in the Constitutional Court of Turkey.\n\nThe highest court ruled on June 23, 2006 that on some of the allegations relating to their term of office and responsibilities, Mesut Yılmaz (June 30, 1997 – January 11, 1999) and Güneş Taner (June 30, 1997 – November 25, 1998) are guilty of bid rigging as per Turkish Penal Code's Article 765 Section 205. However, the sentences were reprieved in accordance with applicable laws.\n"}
{"id": "14611592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14611592", "title": "Washerwoman", "text": "Washerwoman\n\nA washerwoman or laundress is a woman who takes in laundry. Both terms are now old-fashioned.\n\nAs evidenced by the character of Nausicaa in the Odyssey, in the social conventions depicted by Homer and evidently taken for granted in Greek society of the time, there was nothing unusual or demeaning in a princess and her handmaidens personally washing laundry. However, in later times this was mostly considered as the work of women of low social status. The Magdalene asylums chose laundering as a suitable occupation for the \"fallen women\" they accommodated. In between these two extremes, the various sub-divisions of laundry workers in C19th France (\"blanchisseuse\", \"lavandière\", \"laveuse\", \"buandière\", \"repasseuse\", etc.) were respected for their trade. A festival in their honour was held at the end of winter (\"Mi-Careme\", halfway through Lent, i.e. three weeks after Mardi Gras or Shrove Tuesday). This festival has now been revived as .\n\nWhile having a significant social function in various human cultures over thousands of years, the spread of washing machines and self-service laundries has rendered washerwomen unnecessary in much of the contemporary world.\n\nThere are copious examples of washerwomen or laundresses in art (see WikiCommons) and some examples in literature as well:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32979876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32979876", "title": "Women in Paraguay", "text": "Women in Paraguay\n\nWomen in Paraguay live in a culture that has been undergoing rapid change in recent decades. Women's rights were expanded through constitutional and legal changes during the 1990s. Cultural attitudes towards many areas of women's lives are also changing. Yet Paraguayan women still face many challenges in trying to attain social equality.\n\nThe legal and government institutions that currently exist in Paraguay were developed in part through the efforts of feminist organizations in the country that held significant awareness-raising campaigns during the 1990s to formalize the guarantees of women's rights.\n\nThe 1992 Constitution of Paraguay upholds the principle of equality for all individuals and prohibits discrimination. However, socio-cultural practices still support discrimination against women in some areas.\n\nIlliteracy rates for women in Paraguay are higher than those of men, although this is a much more pronounced difference for older generations. The gender gap in education has decreased in recent years. Among youth aged 15 to 24 years, the literacy rate is 99% for both males and females. Young people of both sexes begin dropping out of the education system at significant rates following primary levels, however, and are unlikely to pursue education beyond the secondary level. As of 2010, of the population 15 and over, 92.9% of women and 94.8% of men were literate.\n\nWomen's salaries in relation to men's are the second-lowest in Latin America. This is despite the fact that women make up 74% of Paraguay's labour force.\n\nDiscrimination against women in the workplace, as well as sexual harassment on the job, are common in Paraguay. The Labor Code prohibits, but does not criminalize, discrimination or harassment on the basis of sex. Complaints are generally settled privately. The Secretariat of Women's Affairs occasionally operates programs supporting women's access to employment, social security, housing, land ownership and business opportunities.\n\nEarly marriage is common in Paraguay. A 2004 United Nations report estimated that 17 percent of girls between 15 and 19 years of age were married, divorced or widowed. The legal age for marriage in Paraguay is 16.\n\nDivorce was legalized in Paraguay in 1991. Paraguay was one of the last countries to legalize divorce, both in the world and in Latin America: divorce was also legalized in 1991 in Colombia; across Latin America it was only Chile that had not legalized it by that time, subsequently doing so in 2004. The legalization of divorce in Paraguay had been strongly opposed by the Roman Catholic Church, a powerful force in Paraguayan society since European colonization. Divorce rates in Paraguay remain well below worldwide averages, and are the lowest in Latin America.\n\nFertility rates in Paraguay were historically high relative to other countries in the Latin American region. This has changed since the 1990s, and fertility has recently declined significantly. In 2004 the fertility rate was estimated at 2.9. Research has found that births before marriage are common in Paraguay, although like the fertility rate overall, this phenomenon is decreasing. One study established that birth rates before a first marriage were 23, 24, and 21 percent, based on 2004, 1998, and 1995–96 data. The maternal mortality rate in Paraguay is 99 deaths/100,000 live births (as of 2010).\n\nAs the cultural influence of the Roman Catholic Church declines in Paraguay, attitudes towards women's sexuality and the use of birth control are changing. The use of modern contraceptive methods, such as birth control pills, condoms and IUDs, increased from a rate of 43% in 1996 to more than 60% by 2004. Adultery was decriminalized in 1990. The HIV/AIDS rate is 0.3% for adults (aged 15–49), as of 2012 estimates.\n\nAbortion remains illegal in Paraguay, with exceptional cases where it can be demonstrated that the life of the mother is in danger.\n\nAgriculture is a significant component of Paraguay's economy and an important source of income, with approximately 45% of Paraguay's workforce being employed in agriculture. Access to land ownership has been problematic for women in Paraguay, however. There are no legal restrictions on female land ownership, yet women are half as likely as men to be approved for loans to buy land. The 2002 Agrarian Act includes provisions intended to strengthen women's rights in this regard.\n\nWomen in Paraguay have no legal restrictions on holding political office. Women have served in the government as members of the Congress (as National Deputies and as Senators), as governors, as heads of ministries, and there has been one female Supreme Court judge. They are underrepresented in comparison to male members of the government, however, and even relative to the rates of female representation in the governments of other countries of Latin America. Indeed, Paraguay has one of the lowest percentage of women in parliament in Latin America, significantly lower than neighboring Argentina and Bolivia, although higher than Brazil.\n\nDomestic abuse is common in Paraguay. The legal response of Paraguay to domestic violence has been very weak, even by Latin American standards. Although Paraguay enacted in 2000 \"Law No. 1,600 Against Domestic Violence\" (Ley No 1.600 contra la Violencia Doméstica), this law - while having a broad definition of domestic violence (including physical, psychological and sexual abuse \"lesiones, maltratos físicos, psíquicos o sexuales\" ) - is civil in nature, and as such does not provide for any sanctions against the perpetrators. While the Criminal Code provides for a crime of domestic violence, this crime has a very narrow definition, as physical violence that is carried out habitually, and is punishable only by a fine. As of 2014, there have been increasing calls, from both inside and outside of the country, for the enactment of a comprehensive law against violence against women.\n\nHuman trafficking for the purposes of forcing young women into prostitution is an entrenched problem. In recent years, human trafficking networks organized by Taiwanese and Chinese nationals have been broken up by Paraguayan law enforcement, with Paraguayan women being trafficked to Brazil, Argentina, or Spain to work in brothels. There are no precise estimates of the number of women who are victims of human trafficking, but anecdotal estimates are that several hundred Paraguayan women are smuggled out of the country annually. Underage girls are also trafficked within Paraguay and to neighbouring countries to be forced to work as domestic servants.\n\nThe movement to expand women's rights in Paraguay grew significantly in the 1920s, in large part through the work of María Felicidad González, who represented her country at a feminist conference in Baltimore, in 1922. One year earlier, on April 26, 1921, she opened the \"Centro Femenino del Paraguay\" (CFP) (Women's Centre of Paraguay). Influenced by women's rights movements in North America and Europe, Paraguayan women also began to mobilize and claim their rights. During this period, feminism was associated with the Revolutionary Febrerista Party.\n\nIn 1936, during the Revolution of February 17, 1936, the \"Unión Femenina del Paraguay\" (UFP) (Paraguayan Women's Union) was created. It was founded on April 26, 15 years after the founding of the Women's Centre of Paraguay, at a meeting that took place at the Colegio Nacional de la Capital, in Asunción. The first president of the Union was Maria F. de Casati.\n\nThe Union, in addition to its feminist cause, was openly socialist and part of the wider changes resulting from the Revolution of February 17, 1936. In fact, María F. de Casati stated: \n\nAmong the participants in the Union were Elena Freis de Barthe, Lorenza C. de Gaona, and Luisa vda. de Felip. The Union published a periodical called Por la Mujer (For Women), which was the first feminist periodical in Paraguay. Among other causes, it promoted women's suffrage and equality of the sexes.\n\nThe Union held meetings in the capitol and throughout Paraguay to raise awareness among women about their rights. Ties were strengthened with other feminist groups in the Americas, including: \"Asociación Argentina Pro-Sufragio Femenino\", the \"Confederación Femenina de la Paz Americana\", \"Liga Femenina Pro-Union Americana\", the \"Asociación Argentina Pro Paz\", and the \"Asociación Cristiana Femenina\".\n\nIn 1937, with the fall of the government that came into power following the Revolution of February 17, 1936, the Union was forced to disband, leaving the women's rights movement without an organization.\n\nAfter passing several years between 1940 and 1945 without a women's rights organization, the \"Unión Democrática de Mujeres\" (UDM) (Women's Democratic Union) was founded on December 19, 1946. It grew out of the \"Agrupación de Mujeres Febrerista Residentes en Montevideo\" (AMFRM) (Association of Febrerista Women Living in Montevideo), which was connected to the \"Concentración Revolucionaria Febrerista\", a Febrerista exile group based out of Montevideo, Uruguay. The founders of this group included Carmen Soler, Esther Ballestrino, Lilia Freis, and several others. This group was forced to disband following the Paraguayan Civil War in 1947.\n\nThe \"Movimiento Femenino Febrerista de Emancipación\" (MFFE) (Febrerista Women's Emancipation Movement) was founded in 1949, and it was the successor organization to the \"Agrupación de Mujeres Febreristas Residentes en Montevideo\". It published a periodical, \"Correspondencia\". The MFFE remained associated with the \"Concentración Revolucionaria Febrerista\" group. In 1951, the Febrerista Revolutionary Party was founded, and the MFFE was integrated with it.\n\nWomen's suffrage was gained in Paraguay in 1961, primarily because the strongarm president, Alfredo Stroessner, lacking the approval of his male constituents, sought to bolster his support through women voters.\n\nIn recent years, almost all major political parties in Paraguay have included groups focussed on women's rights issues. Many members of these groups were part of the \"Mujeres por la Alianza\" (Women for the Alliance) movement that supported the candidacy of Fernando Lugo, on April 20, 2008.\n\nJuan Speratti: \"Feminismo\", Editorial Litocolor, Asunción, 1989\n\n"}
