{"id": "29343546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29343546", "title": "1994 Central African constitutional referendum", "text": "1994 Central African constitutional referendum\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Central African Republic on 28 December 1994. The new constitution would make the country a presidential republic with a unicameral National Assembly and a Prime Minister accountable to both the President and the National Assembly. It was approved by 82.7% of voters with a 45% turnout.\n"}
{"id": "33246262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33246262", "title": "Alabama HB 56", "text": "Alabama HB 56\n\nAlabama HB 56 (AL Act 2011-535), titled the Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act is an anti-illegal immigration bill, signed into law in the U.S. state of Alabama in June 2011.\n\nThe law, written in large part by Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, and cosponsored by Alabama Representative Micky Hammon and Alabama State Senator Scott Beason, was passed by the Alabama House of Representatives and Alabama Senate with widespread legislative support. It was then signed into law on June 9, 2011, by Governor Robert J. Bentley.\n\nThe Alabama law requires that if police have \"reasonable suspicion\" that a person is an immigrant unlawfully present in the United States, in the midst of any legal stop, detention or arrest, to make a similarly reasonable attempt to determine that person's legal status. An exemption is provided if such action would hinder an official investigation of some kind.\n\nThe law prohibits illegal immigrants from receiving any public benefits at either the state or local level. It bars illegal immigrants from attending publicly owned colleges or universities (currently blocked). At the high, middle, and elementary public school levels, the law requires that school officials ascertain whether students are illegal immigrants. Attendance is not prohibited for such students; school districts are mandated to submit annual tallies on the suspected number of illegal immigrants when making report to state education officials.\n\nThe law prohibits the transporting or harboring of illegal immigrants (currently blocked). It prohibits landlords from renting property to illegal immigrants. It forbids employers from knowingly hiring illegal immigrants for any job within Alabama. Moreover, it considers as a discriminatory practice any action to refuse to employ or remove a legal resident of the state when an illegal one is already employed (currently blocked). The law requires large and small businesses to validate the immigration status of employees using the US E-Verify program. The law prohibits illegal immigrants from applying for work. (currently blocked)\n\nThe production of false identification documents is considered a crime. Contracts formed in which one party is an illegal immigrant and the other has direct knowledge of that are deemed null and void. The law also requires voters to provide proof of citizenship when registering.\n\nThe law was originally scheduled to take effect on September 1, 2011, but legal actions were taken against it by the Obama administration, some religious groups, student groups (Spanish and Latino Student Alliance), and some immigrant-rights groups, all making claims that the law was unconstitutional.\n\nOn August 29, 2011, U.S. Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn, sitting for the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama, temporarily blocked enforcement of the law, saying she needed more time to study the case. On September 28, 2011, Judge Blackburn gave the green light to key parts of the law.\n\nLess than a month after the bill was signed into law, the Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama (HICA) filed the case \"Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v. Bentley\" challenging HB 56 on the grounds that various provisions of the act, and the entire law as a whole, are preempted by federal law, and are therefore illegal. HICA was only the first to file such a claim, followed by the United States Department of Justice with the suit \"United States v. Alabama\" and a group of Alabama Church Leaders with \"Parsley v. Bentley\". After the U.S. Department of Justice and a coalition of groups including the ACLU appealed that ruling, the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals on October 14, 2011, again put several key provisions on hold until the issues of constitutionality could be addressed, including the requirement on schools to collect information on enrolling students' immigration status. Other provisions, such as those making contracts with undocumented aliens null and void, were left to stand.\n\nU.S. Judge Myron Herbert Thompson, sitting for the United States District Court for the Middle District of Alabama, blocked an additional portion of the law on November 23, 2011, that prevented undocumented immigrants from obtaining certain mobile home registrations. \n\nIn a further December 12, 2011, ruling, Thompson attacked the history behind the law, describing the legislative debate as having been \"laced with derogatory comments about Hispanics.\" He said it was likely that the entire law was \"discriminatorily based\" and that lawmakers employed ethnic stereotypes and used the terms \"Hispanic\" and \"illegal immigrant\" interchangeably. He accused State Representative Hammon of having misused a news article to justify a claim that Alabama was home to the second fastest growing population of undocumented immigrants in the nation.\n\nOnce the federal ruling of September 29, 2011 upholding most of the law went into effect, several Alabama school districts reported a significant drop in the number of Hispanic children attending public schools. State and local officials urged immigrants to keep their children in the schools, saying the law does not bar them from attending.\n\nIndustries dependent on migrant labor have been strongly impacted. Farmers have found that Americans are not willing to work under such harsh working conditions for low pay. Some businesses in other industries have lost workers, including legal workers, as a result of the new immigration law.\n\nOn November 18, 2011, a German Mercedes-Benz executive was arrested for not having proper documentation on him while on business in Alabama, having left his passport at the hotel where he was staying and carrying only his German identity card.\n\nOn December 2, 2011, a Japanese Honda executive was stopped in Leeds, Alabama, at a checkpoint set up by police to catch unlicensed drivers. He was ticketed on the spot, despite the fact that he showed an International Driving Permit, a valid passport and a U.S. work permit.\n\nOn December 18, 2011, it was reported that Alabama's unemployment rate had fallen from 9.2 percent to 8.7 percent. Supporters credited the immigration law for the decrease. However, Ahmad Ijaz, Director of Economic Forecasting at the University of Alabama, found that the majority of job growth in 2011 was in the automotive sector – an area of the economy where undocumented workers were uncommon. Ijaz attributed a rise in employment to the retail growth during holiday sales. Contrary to expectation, there was no job growth in sectors where Latinos typically work – construction, agriculture, and poultry processing.\n\nIn 2012, a study by Dr. Samuel Addy of the University of Alabama estimated that HB56 could shrink the state's annual GDP by $11 billion or almost 6%, a result of lost sales and income taxes and fall in demand from lost consumers. One study found that \"Alabama HB 56 contributed to an increase in violent crime rates, while there was no significant change in property crime rates after the act.\"\n\nOn December 5, 2011, Attorney General of Alabama Luther Strange recommended repealing several parts of the law: the provision requiring collection of the immigration status of public school students, the provision requiring immigrants to always carry alien registration cards, and the allowance of lawsuits by state citizens who do not believe public officials are enforcing the law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5227005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5227005", "title": "Arnold v Teno", "text": "Arnold v Teno\n\nArnold v Teno, [1978] 2 S.C.R. 287 is a leading tort case from the Supreme Court of Canada. This decision was part of a trilogy of personal injury cases including \"Andrews v. Grand & Toy Alberta Ltd.\" (1978) and \"Thornton v. Prince George School Board\" (1978).\n\nOn July 1, 1969, four-year-old Diane Teno and her six-year-old brother were crossing the street to get some ice cream from the ice cream truck parked on the other side when she was struck by a car driven by Brian Arnold. Teno was rendered severely brain damaged and sued Arnold for damages. At trial Teno was successful and was awarded damages. Arnold appealed the amount awarded.\n\nThe issue before the Court was whether the amount of award for damages was correct. The Court dismissed the appeal and upheld the original damage award.\n\nJustice Spence, writing for the majority, observed that the purpose of the award in these circumstances is to ensure that Teno is properly cared for the rest of her life. The sum of $7,500 per year was a \"equitable\" amount proposed by the Court.\n\nSpence further qualified his decision by acknowledging the fear of overly generous awards for tortious acts stating that \"the very real and serious social burden of these exorbitant awards has been illustrated graphically in the United States in cases concerning medical malpractice.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3022", "title": "Autonomous building", "text": "Autonomous building\n\nAn autonomous building is a building designed to be operated independently from infrastructural support services such as the electric power grid, gas grid, municipal water systems, sewage treatment systems, storm drains, communication services, and in some cases, public roads.\n\nAdvocates of autonomous building describe advantages that include reduced environmental impacts, increased security, and lower costs of ownership. Some cited advantages satisfy tenets of green building, not independence per se (see below). Off-grid buildings often rely very little on civil services and are therefore safer and more comfortable during civil disaster or military attacks. (Off-grid buildings would not lose power or water if public supplies were compromised for some reason.)\n\nMost of the research and published articles concerning autonomous building focus on residential homes.\n\nBritish architects Brenda and Robert Vale have said that, as of 2002, \"It is quite possible in all parts of Australia to construct a 'house with no bills', which would be comfortable without heating and cooling, which would make its own electricity, collect its own water and deal with its own waste...These houses can be built now, using off-the-shelf techniques. It is possible to build a \"house with no bills\" for the same price as a conventional house, but it would be (25%) smaller.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, a group of activists and engineers calling themselves the New Alchemists believed the warnings of imminent resource depletion and starvation. The New Alchemists were famous for the depth of research effort placed in their projects. Using conventional construction techniques, they designed a series of \"bioshelter\" projects, the most famous of which was the Ark Bioshelter community for Prince Edward Island. They published the plans for all of these, with detailed design calculations and blueprints. The Ark used wind based water pumping and electricity, and was self-contained in food production. It had living quarters for people, fish tanks raising tilapia for protein, a greenhouse watered with fish water and a closed loop sewage reclamation system that recycled human waste into sanitized fertilizer for the fish tanks. As of January 2010, the successor organization to the New Alchemists has a web page up as the \"New Alchemy Institute\". The PEI Ark has been abandoned and partially renovated several times.\n\nThe 1990s saw the development of Earthships, similar in intent to the Ark project, but organized as a for-profit venture, with construction details published in a series of 3 books by Mike Reynolds. The building material is tires filled with earth. This makes a wall that has large amounts of thermal mass (see earth sheltering). Berms are placed on exposed surfaces to further increase the house's temperature stability. The water system starts with rain water, processed for drinking, then washing, then plant watering, then toilet flushing, and finally black water is recycled again for more plant watering. The cisterns are placed and used as thermal masses. Power, including electricity, heat and water heating, is from solar power.\n\n1990s architects such as William McDonough and Ken Yeang applied environmentally responsible building design to large commercial buildings, such as office buildings, making them largely self-sufficient in energy production. One major bank building (ING's Amsterdam headquarters) in the Netherlands was constructed to be autonomous and artistic as well.\n\nAs an architect or engineer becomes more concerned with the disadvantages of transportation networks, and dependence on distant resources, their designs tend to include more autonomous elements. The historic path to autonomy was a concern for secure sources of heat, power, water and food. A nearly parallel path toward autonomy has been to start with a concern for environmental impacts, which cause disadvantages.\n\nAutonomous buildings can increase security and reduce environmental impacts by using on-site resources (such as sunlight and rain) that would otherwise be wasted. Autonomy often dramatically reduces the costs and impacts of networks that serve the building, because autonomy short-circuits the multiplying inefficiencies of collecting and transporting resources. Other impacted resources, such as oil reserves and the retention of the local watershed, can often be cheaply conserved by thoughtful designs.\n\nAutonomous buildings are usually energy-efficient in operation, and therefore cost-efficient, for the obvious reason that smaller energy needs are easier to satisfy off-grid. But they may substitute energy production or other techniques to avoid diminishing returns in extreme conservation.\n\nAn autonomous structure is not always environmentally friendly. The goal of independence from support systems is associated with, but not identical to, other goals of environmentally responsible green building. However, autonomous buildings also usually include some degree of sustainability through the use of renewable energy and other renewable resources, producing no more greenhouse gases than they consume, and other measures.\n\nFirst and fundamentally, independence is a matter of degree, with many choices. For example, eliminating dependence on the electrical grid is relatively easy. In contrast, running an efficient, reliable food source can be a chore.\n\nLiving within an autonomous shelter may also require sacrifices in lifestyle or social opportunities. Even the most comfortable and technologically advanced autonomous homes could require alterations of residents' behavior. Some may not welcome the extra chores. The Vails described some clients' experiences as inconvenient, irritating, isolating, or even as an unwanted full-time job. A well-designed building can reduce this issue, but usually at the expense of reduced autonomy.\n\nAn autonomous house must be custom-built (or extensively retrofitted) to suit the climate and location. Passive solar techniques, alternative toilet and sewage systems, thermal massing designs, basement battery systems, efficient windowing, and the array of other design tactics require some degree of non-standard construction, added expense, ongoing experimentation and maintenance, and also have an effect on the psychology of the space.\n\nThe Vales, among others, have shown that living off-grid can be a practical, logical lifestyle choice—under certain conditions.\n\nThis section includes some minimal descriptions of methods, to give some feel for such a building's practicality, provide indexes to further information, and give a sense of modern trends.\n\nThere are many methods of collecting and conserving water. Use reduction is cost-effective.\n\nGreywater systems reuse drained wash water to flush toilets or to water lawns and gardens. Greywater systems can halve the water use of most residential buildings; however, they require the purchase of a sump, greywater pressurization pump, and secondary plumbing. Some builders are installing waterless urinals and even composting toilets that completely eliminate water usage in sewage disposal.\n\nThe classic solution with minimal life-style changes is using a well. Once drilled, a well-foot requires substantial power. However, advanced well-foots can reduce power usage by twofold or more from older models. Well water can be contaminated in some areas. The sono arsenic filter eliminates unhealthy arsenic in well water.\n\nHowever drilling a well is an uncertain activity, with aquifers depleted in some areas. It can also be expensive.\n\nIn regions with sufficient rainfall, it is often more economical to design a building to use rainwater harvesting, with supplementary water deliveries in a drought. Rain water makes excellent soft washwater, but needs antibacterial treatment. If used for drinking, mineral supplements or mineralization is necessary.\n\nMost desert and temperate climates get at least of rain per year. This means that a typical one-story house with a greywater system can supply its year-round water needs from its roof alone. In the driest areas, it might require a cistern of . Many areas average of rain per week, and these can use a cistern as small as .\n\nIn many areas, it is difficult to keep a roof clean enough for drinking. To reduce dirt and bad tastes, systems use a metal collecting-roof and a \"roof cleaner\" tank that diverts the first 40 liters. Cistern water is usually chlorinated, though reverse osmosis systems provide even better quality drinking water.\n\nIn the classic Roman house (\"Domus\"), household water was provided from a cistern (the \"impluvium\"), that was a decorative feature of the atrium, the house's main public space. It was fed by downspout tiles from the inward facing roof-opening (the \"compluvium\"). Often water lilies were grown in it to purify the water. Wealthy households often supplemented the rain with a small fountain fed from a city's cistern. The impluvium always had an overflow drain so it could not flood the house.\n\nModern cisterns are usually large plastic tanks. Gravity tanks on short towers are reliable, so pump repairs are less urgent. The least expensive bulk cistern is a fenced pond or pool at ground level.\n\nReducing autonomy reduces the size and expense of cisterns. Many autonomous homes can reduce water use below per person per day, so that in a drought a month of water can be delivered inexpensively via truck. Self-delivery is often possible by installing fabric water tanks that fit the bed of a pick-up truck.\n\nIt can be convenient to use the cistern as a heat sink or trap for a heat pump or air conditioning system; however this can make cold drinking water warm, and in drier years may decrease the efficiency of the HVAC system.\n\nSolar stills can efficiently produce drinking water from ditch water or cistern water, especially high-efficiency multiple effect humidification designs, which separate the evaporator(s) and condenser(s).\n\nNew technologies, like reverse osmosis can create unlimited amounts of pure water from polluted water, ocean water, and even from humid air. Water makers are available for yachts that convert seawater and electricity into potable water and brine. Atmospheric water generators extract moisture from dry desert air and filter it to pure water.\n\nComposting toilets use bacteria to decompose human feces into useful, odourless, sanitary compost. The process is sanitary because soil bacteria eat the human pathogens as well as most of the mass of the waste. Nevertheless, most health authorities forbid direct use of \"humanure\" for growing food. The risk is microbial and viral contamination. In a dry composting toilet, the waste is evaporated or digested to gas (mostly carbon dioxide) and vented, so a toilet produces only a few pounds of compost every six months. To control the odor, modern toilets use a small fan to keep the toilet under negative pressure, and exhaust the gasses to a vent pipe.\n\nSome home sewage treatment systems use biological treatment, usually beds of plants and aquaria, that absorb nutrients and bacteria and convert greywater and sewage to clear water. This odor- and color-free reclaimed water can be used to flush toilets and water outside plants. When tested, it approaches standards for potable water. In climates that freeze, the plants and aquaria need to be kept in a small greenhouse space. Good systems need about as much care as a large aquarium.\n\nElectric incinerating toilets turn excrement into a small amount of ash. They are cool to the touch, have no water and no pipes, and require an air vent in a wall. They are used in remote areas where use of septic tanks is limited, usually to reduce nutrient loads in lakes.\n\nNASA's bioreactor is an extremely advanced biological sewage system. It can turn sewage into air and water through microbial action. NASA plans to use it in the manned Mars mission.\n\nA big disadvantage of complex biological sewage treatment systems is that if the house is empty, the sewage system biota may starve to death.\n\nAnother method is NASA's urine-to-water distillation system.\n\nSewage handling is essential for public health. Many diseases are transmitted by poorly functioning sewage systems.\n\nThe standard system is a tiled leach field combined with a septic tank. The basic idea is to provide a small system with primary sewage treatment. Sludge settles to the bottom of the septic tank, is partially reduced by anaerobic digestion, and fluid is dispersed in the leach field. The leach field is usually under a yard growing grass. Septic tanks can operate entirely by gravity, and if well managed, are reasonably safe.\n\nSeptic tanks have to be pumped periodically by a vacuum truck to eliminate non reducing solids. Failure to pump a septic tank can cause overflow that damages the leach field, and contaminates ground water. Septic tanks may also require some lifestyle changes, such as not using garbage disposals, minimizing fluids flushed into the tank, and minimizing nondigestible solids flushed into the tank. For example, septic safe toilet paper is recommended.\n\nHowever, septic tanks remain popular because they permit standard plumbing fixtures, and require few or no lifestyle sacrifices.\n\nComposting or packaging toilets make it economical and sanitary to throw away sewage as part of the normal garbage collection service. They also reduce water use by half, and eliminate the difficulty and expense of septic tanks. However, they require the local landfill to use sanitary practices.\n\nIncinerator systems are quite practical. The ashes are biologically safe, and less than 1/10 the volume of the original waste, but like all incinerator waste, are usually classified as hazardous waste.\n\nTraditional methods of sewage handling include pit toilets, latrines, and outhouses. These can be safe, inexpensive and practical. They are still used in many regions.\n\nDrainage systems are a crucial compromise between human habitability and a secure, sustainable watershed. Paved areas and lawns or turf do not allow much precipitation to filter through the ground to recharge aquifers. They can cause flooding and damage in neighbourhoods, as the water flows over the surface towards a low point.\n\nTypically, elaborate, capital-intensive storm sewer networks are engineered to deal with stormwater. In some cities, such as the Victorian era London sewers or much of the old City of Toronto, the storm water system is combined with the sanitary sewer system. In the event of heavy precipitation, the load on the sewage treatment plant at the end of the pipe becomes too great to handle and raw sewage is dumped into holding tanks, and sometimes into surface water.\n\nAutonomous buildings can address precipitation in a number of ways:\n\nIf a water absorbing swale for each yard is combined with permeable concrete streets, storm drains can be omitted from the neighbourhood. This can save more than $800 per house (1970s) by eliminating storm drains. One way to use the savings is to purchase larger lots, which permits more amenities at the same cost. Permeable concrete is an established product in warm climates, and in development for freezing climates. In freezing climates, the elimination of storm drains can often still pay for enough land to construct swales (shallow water collecting ditches) or water impeding berms instead. This plan provides more land for homeowners and can offer more interesting topography for landscaping.\n\nA green roof captures precipitation and uses the water to grow plants. It can be built into a new building or used to replace an existing roof.\n\nSince electricity is an expensive utility, the first step towards autonomy is to design a house and lifestyle to reduce demand. LED lights, laptop computers and gas-powered refrigerators save electricity, although gas-powered refrigerators are not very efficient. There are also superefficient electric refrigerators, such as those produced by the Sun Frost company, some of which use only about half as much electricity as a mass-market energy star-rated refrigerator.\n\nUsing a solar roof, solar cells can provide electric power. Solar roofs can be more cost-effective than retrofitted solar power, because buildings need roofs anyway. Modern solar cells last about 40 years, which makes them a reasonable investment in some areas. At a sufficient angle, solar cells are cleaned by run-off rain water and therefore have almost no life-style impact.\n\nHowever, many areas have long winter nights or dark cloudy days. In these climates, a solar installation might not pay for itself. In stormy or windy climates, wind generators can replace or supplement solar power. The average autonomous house needs only one small wind turbine, 5 metres or less in diameter. On a 30-metre (100 foot) tower, this turbine can provide enough power to supplement solar power on cloudy days. Commercially available wind turbines use sealed, one-moving-part AC generators and passive, self-feathering blades for years of operation without service.\n\nThe main advantage of wind power is that larger wind turbines have a lower per-watt cost than solar cells, provided there is wind. However, location is critical. Just as some locations lack sun for solar cells, many areas lack enough wind to make a turbine pay for itself. In the Great Plains of the United States, a 10-metre (33 foot) turbine can supply enough energy to heat and cool a well-built all-electric house. Economic use in other areas requires research, and possibly a site-survey.\n\nDuring times of low demand, excess power can be stored in batteries for future use. However, batteries need to be replaced every few years. In many areas, battery expenses can be eliminated by attaching the building to the electric power grid and operating the power system with net metering. Utility permission is required, but such cooperative generation is legally mandated in some areas (for example, California).\n\nA grid-based building is less autonomous, but more economical and sustainable with fewer lifestyle sacrifices. In rural areas the grid's cost and impacts can be reduced by using single-wire earth return systems (for example, the MALT-system).\n\nIn areas that lack access to the grid, battery size can be reduced with a generator to recharge the batteries during energy droughts such as extended fogs. Auxiliary generators are usually run from propane, natural gas, or sometimes diesel. An hour of charging usually provides a day of operation. Modern residential chargers permit the user to set the charging times, so the generator is quiet at night. Some generators automatically test themselves once per week.\n\nRecent advances in passively stable magnetic bearings may someday permit inexpensive storage of power in a flywheel in a vacuum. Research groups like Canada's Ballard Power Systems are also working to develop a \"regenerative fuel cell\", a device that can generate hydrogen and oxygen when power is available, and combine these efficiently when power is needed.\n\nEarth batteries tap electric currents in the earth called telluric current. They can be installed anywhere in the ground. They provide only low voltages and current. They were used to power telegraphs in the 19th century. As appliance efficiencies increase, they may become practical.\n\nMicrobial fuel cells and thermoelectric generators allow electricity to be generated from biomass. The plant can be dried, chopped and converted or burned as a whole, or it can be left alive so that waste saps from the plant can be converted by bacteria.\n\nMost autonomous buildings are designed to use insulation, thermal mass and passive solar heating and cooling. Examples of these are trombe walls and other technologies as skylights.\n\nPassive solar heating can heat most buildings in even the mild and chilly climates. In colder climates, extra construction costs can be as little as 15% more than new, conventional buildings. In warm climates, those having less than two weeks of frosty nights per year, there is no cost impact.\n\nThe basic requirement for passive solar heating is that the solar collectors must face the prevailing sunlight (south in the Northern Hemisphere, north in the Southern Hemisphere), and the building must incorporate thermal mass to keep it warm in the night.\n\nA recent, somewhat experimental solar heating system \"Annualized geo solar heating\" is practical even in regions that get little or no sunlight in winter. It uses the ground beneath a building for thermal mass. Precipitation can carry away the heat, so the ground is shielded with skirts of plastic insulation. The thermal mass of this system is sufficiently inexpensive and large that it can store enough summer heat to warm a building for the whole winter, and enough winter cold to cool the building in summer.\n\nIn annualized geo solar systems, the solar collector is often separate from (and hotter or colder than) the living space. The building may actually be constructed from insulation, for example, straw-bale construction. Some buildings have been aerodynamically designed so that convection via ducts and interior spaces eliminates any need for electric fans.\n\nA more modest \"daily solar\" design is very practical. For example, for about a 15% premium in building costs, the Passivhaus building codes in Europe use high performance insulating windows, R-30 insulation, HRV ventilation, and a small thermal mass. With modest changes in the building's position, modern krypton- or argon-insulated windows permit normal-looking windows to provide passive solar heat without compromising insulation or structural strength. If a small heater is available for the coldest nights, a slab or basement cistern can inexpensively provide the required thermal mass. Passivhaus building codes in particular bring unusually good interior air quality, because the buildings change the air several times per hour, passing it though a heat exchanger to keep heat inside.\n\nIn all systems, a small supplementary heater increases personal security and reduces lifestyle impacts for a small reduction of autonomy. The two most popular heaters for ultra-high-efficiency houses are a small heat pump, which also provides air conditioning, or a central hydronic (radiator) air heater with water recirculating from the water heater. Passivhaus designs usually integrate the heater with the ventilation system.\n\nEarth sheltering and windbreaks can also reduce the absolute amount of heat needed by a building. Several feet below the earth, temperature ranges from in North Dakota to , in Southern Florida. Wind breaks reduce the amount of heat carried away from a building.\n\nRounded, aerodynamic buildings also lose less heat.\n\nAn increasing number of commercial buildings use a combined cycle with cogeneration to provide heating, often water heating, from the output of a natural gas reciprocating engine, gas turbine or stirling electric generator.\n\nHouses designed to cope with interruptions in civil services generally incorporate a wood stove, or heat and power from diesel fuel or bottled gas, regardless of their other heating mechanisms.\n\nElectric heaters and electric stoves may provide pollution-free heat (depending on the power source), but use large amounts of electricity. If enough electricity is provided by solar panels, wind turbines, or other means, then electric heaters and stoves become a practical autonomous design.\n\nHot water heat recycling units recover heat from water drain lines. They increase a building's autonomy by decreasing the heat or fuel used to heat water. They are attractive because they have no lifestyle changes.\n\nCurrent practical, comfortable domestic water-heating systems combine a solar preheating system with a thermostatic gas-powered flow-through heater, so that the temperature of the water is consistent, and the amount is unlimited. This reduces life-style impacts at some cost in autonomy.\n\nSolar water heaters can save large amounts of fuel. Also, small changes in lifestyle, such as doing laundry, dishes and bathing on sunny days, can greatly increase their efficiency. Pure solar heaters are especially useful for laundries, swimming pools and external baths, because these can be scheduled for use on sunny days.\n\nThe basic trick in a solar water heating system is to use a well-insulated holding tank. Some systems are vacuum- insulated, acting something like large thermos bottles. The tank is filled with hot water on sunny days, and made available at all times. Unlike a conventional tank water heater, the tank is filled only when there is sunlight. Good storage makes a smaller, higher-technology collector feasible. Such collectors can use relatively exotic technologies, such as vacuum insulation, and reflective concentration of sunlight.\n\nCogeneration systems produce hot water from waste heat. They usually get the heat from the exhaust of a generator or fuel cell.\n\nHeat recycling, cogeneration and solar pre-heating can save 50-75% of the gas otherwise used. Also, some combinations provide redundant reliability by having several sources of heat.\nSome authorities advocate replacing bottled gas or natural gas with biogas. However, this is usually impractical unless live-stock are on-site. The wastes of a single family are usually insufficient to produce enough methane for anything more than small amounts of cooking.\n\nAnnualized geo solar buildings often have buried, sloped water-tight skirts of insulation that extend from the foundations, to prevent heat leakage between the earth used as thermal mass, and the surface.\n\nLess dramatic improvements are possible. Windows can be shaded in summer. Eaves can be overhung to provide the necessary shade. These also shade the walls of the house, reducing cooling costs.\n\nAnother trick is to cool the building's thermal mass at night, perhaps with a whole-house fan and then cool the building from the thermal mass during the day. It helps to be able to route cold air from a sky-facing radiator (perhaps an air heating solar collector with an alternate purpose) or evaporative cooler directly through the thermal mass. On clear nights, even in tropical areas, sky-facing radiators can cool below freezing.\n\nIf a circular building is aerodynamically smooth, and cooler than the ground, it can be passively cooled by the \"dome effect.\" Many installations have reported that a reflective or light colored dome induces a local vertical heat driven vortex that sucks cooler overhead air downward into a dome if the dome is vented properly (a single overhead vent, and peripheral vents). Some people have reported a temperature differential as high as () between the inside of the dome and the outside. Buckminster Fuller discovered this effect with a simple house design adapted from a grain silo, and adapted his Dymaxion house and geodesic domes to use it.\n\nRefrigerators and air conditioners operating from the waste heat of a diesel engine exhaust, heater flue or solar collector are entering use. These use the same principles as a gas refrigerator. Normally, the heat from a flue powers an \"absorptive chiller\". The cold water or brine from the chiller is used to cool air or a refrigerated space.\n\nCogeneration is popular in new commercial buildings. In current cogeneration systems small gas turbines or stirling engines powered from natural gas produce electricity and their exhaust drives an absorptive chiller.\n\nA truck trailer refrigerator operating from the waste heat of a tractor's diesel exhaust was demonstrated by NRG Solutions, Inc. NRG developed a hydronic ammonia gas heat exchanger and vaporizer, the two essential new, not commercially available components of a waste heat driven refrigerator.\n\nA similar scheme (multiphase cooling) can be by a multistage evaporative cooler. The air is passed through a spray of salt solution to dehumidify it, then through a spray of water solution to cool it, then another salt solution to dehumidify it again. The brine has to be regenerated, and that can be done economically with a low temperature solar still. Multiphase evaporative coolers can lower the air's temperature by 50 °F (28 °C), and still control humidity. If the brine regenerator uses high heat, they also partially sterilise the air.\n\nIf enough electric power is available, cooling can be provided by conventional air conditioning using a heat pump.\n\nFood production has often been included in historic autonomous projects to provide security.\nSkilled, intensive gardening can support an adult from as little as 100 square meters of land per person,\npossibly requiring the use of organic farming and aeroponics. Some proven intensive, low-effort food-production systems include urban gardening (indoors and outdoors). Indoor cultivation may be set up using hydroponics, while outdoor cultivation may be done using permaculture, forest gardening, no-till farming, and do nothing farming.\n\nGreenhouses are also sometimes included. Sometimes they are also outfitted with irrigation systems or heat sink-systems which can respectively irrigate the plants or help to store energy from the sun and redistribute it at night (when the greenhouses starts to cool down).\n\n"}
{"id": "56164961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56164961", "title": "BC Energy Step Code", "text": "BC Energy Step Code\n\nThe BC Energy Step Code is a provincial regulation that local governments in British Columbia, Canada, may use, if they wish, to incentivize or require a level of energy efficiency in new construction that goes above and beyond the requirements of the base building code. It is an example of a \"stretch code,\" or \"reach code,\" in that it is an appendix to a mandatory minimum energy code that allows communities to voluntarily adopt a uniform approach to achieving more ambitious levels of energy efficiency in new construction.\n\nThe BC Energy Step Code consists of a series of specific measurable efficiency targets, and groups them into \"steps\" that represent increasing levels of energy-efficiency performance. By gradually adopting one or more steps, a local government can increase the building performance requirements in its community. The regulation is designed as a technical roadmap to help the province reach its target that all new buildings will attain a net zero energy ready level of performance by 2032.\n\nThe Government of British Columbia enacted the BC Energy Step Code as regulation on April 6, 2017. It entered into legal force on December 15, 2017.\n\nThe BC Energy Step Code establishes a series of measurable energy-efficiency requirements that builders must meet in communities that reference it in their building and development bylaws. The regulation groups these performance targets into a series of \"steps\" of increasing energy efficiency. Step 1 simply requires confirmation that new buildings meet the existing energy-efficiency requirements of the existing \"BC Building Code\". Meanwhile, at the opposite end of the scale, Step 5 for homes represents a home that is net-zero energy ready. A Step 5 home is effectively the most energy-efficient home that can be built today, roughly equivalent to the rigorous Passive house standard.\n\nThe \"BC Building Code\" separates all buildings into two basic categories – Part 9 and Part 3, as follows:\n\n\nFor Part 9 buildings, there are five steps of the BC Energy Step Code; Part 3 buildings have four steps, while commercial buildings have three. Each step represents a more stringent set of energy-efficiency requirements. As communities climb the steps, they gradually increase the level of energy efficiency in their new buildings. The BC Energy Step Code applies to new construction only.\n\nFor small buildings, Steps 1 to 3 (collectively, the \"Lower Steps\") can be achieved using construction techniques and products readily understood and available in today's market; homes built to Steps 4 and 5 (the \"Upper Steps\") are more ambitious and may require more training and incentives to achieve.\n\nThe regulation is performance-based, not prescriptive, in that it does not specify the specific materials and strategies a builder must use. Instead, it sets measurable performance targets that the proposed building must meet.\n\nTo ensure that builders have the skills and capacity they need to cost-effectively produce higher performance buildings, until 2020, governments that wish to use the BC Energy Step Code may incentivize all steps, but may only require Lower Steps.\n\nThe BC Energy Step Code measures a building's energy performance via a variety of metrics. The Building Envelope Metrics and the Equipment and Systems Metrics are demonstrated through a whole-building performance simulation, while the Airtightness Metric is demonstrated through an on-site blower door test of the building before occupancy.\n\n\n\n\nTo meet the requirements of the BC Energy Step Code, builders will work with an energy advisor to check that their plans will meet the energy-performance requirements of a given step. An energy advisor uses software to analyze construction plans and determine the energy efficiency of a building. The builder then begins construction, paying special attention to the building envelope—the walls, windows, doors, and insulation. The energy advisor also tests a building once it is built to see how well it performs.\n\nTo achieve the Lower Steps, building and design professionals and trades can rely on conventional building designs with careful air-sealing practices, and incrementally incorporate some key elements in the design, building envelope, and equipment and systems. Builders and designers will collaborate with the energy advisor to select the most cost effective way to meet the standard's requirements. These Lower Steps give builders new flexibility in how to achieve modest gains in efficiency through improved envelopes and/or upgraded systems.\n\nTo achieve the Upper Steps, builders and designers will need to adopt an integrated design approach to building design and may need to incorporate more substantial changes in building design, layout, framing techniques, system selection, and materials. These techniques and materials will be more costly and challenging without additional training and experience.\n\nIn September 2015, the province's Building Safety and Standards branch established an Energy Efficiency Working Group (EEWG) to review policies and regulations that apply to energy efficiency in BC, to seek stakeholder input and offer guidance on how to best implement an Energy Step Code to achieve consistent building energy performance beyond the BC Building Code. The consultations engaged with the building and development sectors, and the trades and professions that support them, as well as local governments, utilities, and other stakeholders, to identify a consistent approach to increasing energy-efficiency standards.\n\nIn August 2016, the group renamed itself the Stretch Code Implementation Working Group and published its final report and recommendations, including adoption of a Step Code into a voluntary provincial regulation.\n\nIn mid 2017, the province renamed the group the Energy Step Code Council, and mandated it \"to support local governments and industry towards smooth uptake of the BC Energy Step Code and help guide market transformation towards higher-performance buildings within B.C.\" The Energy Step Code Council meets quarterly to support training and capacity building opportunities for local governments, industry, and other stakeholder, communicate what the BC Energy Step Code is and how it may be implemented across the province, and provide advice and clarification on technical aspects of the standard.\n\nIn September 2017, BC Housing, the province's housing authority, and the Energy Step Code Council published the \"BC Energy Step Code 2017 Metrics Research Study\" as a comprehensive exploration of the standard's energy, emissions and economic impacts. The research is based on data generated by builders from all across British Columbia, and bills itself as \"one of the most extensive energy analyses of buildings in Canada.\"\n\nThe researchers conclude that meeting the requirements of the Lower Steps of the BC Energy Step Code involve only very modest construction premiums. In most situations, builders can achieve the Lower Steps for less than a 2% construction cost premium above that of a home built to the requirements of the \"BC Building Code\". The construction cost premiums associated with meeting the requirements of Step 1 amounts to just a small fraction of a percent, the report states. In exchange, owners, occupants, and others would enjoy the benefits detailed in the \"Benefits of adoption\" section below.\n\nIn an effort to illustrate how the BC Energy Step Code would impact construction costs in the \"real world,\" the study's authors produced a series of hypothetical scenarios for various building types in various cities.\n\nThe Metrics Research report offers an example of the anticipated capital construction cost premium for a hypothetical 730 square foot unit in a six-storey apartment building in Surrey, British Columbia. Units in this hypothetical new building would sell for between CAD$270,000 and CAD$730,000.\n\nFor this building, the report says meeting the requirements of Step 1 would involve a construction cost premium of CAD$100 per unit above the cost of building to the standard modelling requirements of the \"BC Building Code\". Meeting the requirements of Step 2 would incur A 0.5 percent construction cost premium, about CAD$790 per unit. Meeting the requirements of Step 3 adds about CAD$970 to the per-unit build cost. Finally, the researchers found that building to the very high-performance levels of Step 4 may entail a per-unit construction cost premium of CAD$4,215.\n\nThe Metrics Research report also models an example of the anticipated capital construction cost premium for a hypothetical 1,720 square feet unit built into a six-unit row house project in Surrey, B.C. Units in this hypothetical new building would sell for between CAD$550,000 and CAD$800,000.\n\nFor this building, the researchers conclude that meeting the requirements of Step 1 would involve a construction cost premium of $560 per unit above the cost of building to the \"BC Building Code\". Meeting the requirements of Step 2 would incur a 0.4% construction cost premium, about CAD$1,250 per unit. Meeting the requirements of Step 3 adds about CAD$2,950 to the per-unit build cost. Finally, the report states that building to the highest performance levels may require non-conventional building practices; this would increase construction costs between $5,500 (Step 4) and $9,400 (Step 5) per unit, the study suggests.\n\nBuildings built to higher energy efficiency standard have been shown to provide multiple co-benefits – to home and building owners and occupants, to industry, to the environment, and to the community.\n\nOwners and tenants often prefer high-performance buildings as they require less energy, reducing utility bills. Occupants also prefer them because they better manage:\n\n\nThe BC Energy Step Code provides industry with a clear sense of where the province is heading on energy efficiency, while giving builders a welcome level of consistency via standardized performance metrics.\n\nIf a given community's new homes are likely to be heated with natural gas, the BC Energy Step Code will reduce the amount of that fuel they need to burn to stay comfortable. A well-insulated and well-sealed Step 3 home heated with natural gas will consume much less of the fuel when compared with one built to the minimum code requirements. This will result in fewer carbon emissions.\n\nThe global green-building market doubles every three years and the value of the green building materials market is expected to reach $234 billion by 2019. British Columbia is already a green building design and construction leader, boasting some of highest-performing buildings in North America. Almost 12,000 people work in green architecture and related construction services in BC, while close to 9,000 work in clean energy services. The BC Energy Step Code could open up new local economic development opportunities, and helps unlock a significant export opportunity. At a November 2017 conference, an assistant deputy minister with the Province of British Columbia's Office of Housing and Construction Standards called the BC Energy Step Code \"a driver of the clean economy.\"\n\nThe BC Energy Step Code is available to communities to all climate zones across the province for Part 9 buildings, and only to Climate Zone 4 (Lower Mainland and South Vancouver Island) for Part 3 buildings. Future iterations of the standard will increase coverage to all types and all areas.\n\nAll British Columbia local governments except the City of Vancouver may reference and enforce the BC Energy Step Code in their policies and bylaws. The City of Vancouver has its own building code, and its own high-performance buildings strategy, the Zero Emissions Building Plan.\n\nOn October 2, 2017, the City of North Vancouver became the first local government to reference the BC Energy Step Code in its building bylaws. At a subsequent meeting, city council unanimously agreed to write a letter to the provincial governments requesting BC Energy Step Code standards for government buildings, hospitals, and schools. The District of West Vancouver and the District of North Vancouver have since followed the City of North Vancouver and aligned their approach. As of July 1, 2018, Metro Vancouver's three North Shore governments will mandate that all new homes must meet the requirements of Step 3.\n\nThe City of Victoria will require Step 1 community-wide for both Part 9 and Part 3 buildings as of November 2018. Following a 14-month capacity-building and industry adjustment period, in January 2020 the city will move to Step 3 for homes, other simple buildings, and mid rise residential Part 3 buildings.\n\nAs of May 2018, more than 23 of British Columbia's local governments, representing 65 percent of new housing starts, have either adopted the BC Energy Step Code in bylaws, or indicated that they intend to begin consulting with industry.\n\nIn August 2017, British Columbia joined Canada's federal government, represented by Natural Resources Canada, and other provinces and territories in endorsing the \"Build Smart: Canada's Buildings Strategy.\" The strategy commits signatories to develop and adopt increasingly stringent model building codes, starting in 2020, with the goal that provinces and territories adopt a \"net-zero energy ready\" model building code by 2030. In British Columbia, the BC Energy Step Code serves as a technical policy pathway for British Columbia to deliver on that goal.\n\nAs of mid-2018, the only other tiered building standard in Canada's is the Toronto Green Standard, which establishes sustainable design requirements for new private and public developments in that city. The Toronto Green Standard consists of stepped levels of performance measures with supporting guidelines that promote sustainable site and building design.\n\nThree for All is a campaign to encourage local governments to consider adopting at least Step 3 of the BC Energy Step Code. The campaign was created by an informal coalition of companies and non-profit organizations including The Open Green Building Society, The Canada Green Building Council, Integral Group, Passive House Canada, The Pembina Institute, and Recollective Consulting. The campaign´s primary purpose is to facilitate the sharing of accurate information about BC Energy Step Code adoption.\n\nThe New Buildings Institute, a U.S. nonprofit organization advocating for improved energy performance in commercial buildings, describes a stretch code as \"a locally mandated or incentivized code or alternative compliance path that is more ambitious than the base code, resulting in buildings that achieve higher energy savings.\" The institute says the codes provide an opportunity to train building and development communities in advanced practices before the underlying energy code is improved. They help accelerate market acceptance and adoption of more stringent energy efficiency codes in the future. Stretch codes can work in tandem with utility incentive programs.\n\nIn November 2017, the New Buildings Institute released a set of model stretch building code strategies that target 20% better efficiency than current U.S. national building energy codes. The new 20% Stretch Code Provisions address design aspects such as envelope, mechanical, water heating, lighting and plug loads.\n\nOther stretch codes are in place in the United States, in Massachusetts, Vermont, Oregon, New York, and California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30439354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30439354", "title": "Certified Public Manager", "text": "Certified Public Manager\n\nThe Certified Public Manager₢ (CPM) is a United States professional designation established in 1979 for the purpose of improving performance and advancing best practice standards for public sector managers. The CPM is a comprehensive management development program based upon a selected set of competencies. The CPM is awarded upon completion of a CPM program accredited by the National Certified Public Manager Consortium. CPM graduates come from public, private, and non-profit career fields.\nThe words \"certified public manager\" are registered service marks by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.\n\nRequirements for the CPM vary by program, but all require at least 300 hours of training, including classes, application projects, structured readings, and examinations. Each CPM candidate is required to pass a series of courses centering on various management principles. The courses are designed around a set of core competencies and each CPM program requires an evaluation of all major curricular competencies.\n\nThe following competencies are present in all CPM curriculum:\nThe structure of CPM competencies arise from a holistic approach to management. Communication, organizational management, and ethical principles are emphasized as well as financial responsibility and effective change management. System thinking is introduced within the CPM program to emphasize the importance of broad open system management within organization. The program also places importance on personal development and change leadership.\n\nThe idea for the CPM began in the early 1970s at the University of Georgia with the realization that the state was experiencing explosive growth in information and knowledge, significant new social legislation, and rapidly altering social values. During this time the Carl Vinson Institute of Government and the Georgia Merit System were offering management training to public employees. It was recognized that these two organizations were offering duplications of training in some areas of management and were failing to meet the needs of other management areas. In 1974 University of Georgia’s Institute of Government, the Georgia Center for Continuing Education, and the Georgia State Merit System for Personnel Administration convened to discuss ways to broaden and refine Georgia state management training programs to meet the challenges of rapid change in the state and society. A consensus was reached that management in the state government needed to become more professional.\n\nKen Henning is considered the father of the CPM. He observed that most state training programs consisted of separate courses in which content was varied and lacked consistent focus. Henning felt that an integrated program would achieve a more organized approach to competencies needed by management. The CPM program was modeled after the CPA program, consisting of the creation of a coordinated program addressing specific and various training needs relevant to management as well as with content involving study and preparation, practice and application of learning, examination, and prestigious recognition. The CPM would also involve the eventual creation of the American Academy of Certified Public Managers similar to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants as a central capstone organization.\n\nPlanners believed that awarding certificates of attendance were insufficient in the creation of a program based on quality. Early planners for the CPM determined that an innovative and rigorous program of study, application of knowledge, examination, and certification should be developed. University courses and the Georgia Merit System collaborated to reduce training duplication, and maximize efforts. Initially a program was developed in which six courses would be taught, three by the Georgia Merit System and three by the University of Georgia. \nAfter a series of meetings, two long-term goals for the CPM were created:\n\n\nAfter gathering strong support for the CPM program from the governor, legislative leadership, top management of state agencies, University of Georgia, regional intergovernmental personnel assistance (IPA) offices of the U.S. Civil Service Commission, the University of Georgia’s Institute for Government and Center for Continuing Education and the Georgia State Merit System of Personnel Administration co-authored a detailed proposal.\n\nFebruary 9, 1976 the Georgia House of Representatives passed Resolution Act No. 97 in response to Governor Busbee’s request authorizing and directing the State Personnel Board and the State Merit System of Personnel Administration to implement the Certified Public Manager Program in the State Government of Georgia. On February 19, 1976 the Senate adopted the resolution and the legislature unanimously passed the resolution on February 26, 1976. On March 1, 1976 the CPM was formally established.\n\nIn 1977 the Georgia Society of Public Managers was created affiliated with a national organization to be known as the American Academy of Certified Public Managers. In 1980 the National CPM Consortium was developed with the completion of its constitution. The National CPM Consortium included Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, North Carolina, and Vermont. The role of the CPM Consortium is to direct the general nature in which each program should operate, but it is not designed to dictate curriculum or administrative specifics for each program. Since then, the CPM program has expanded across the United States.\n\nOn October 6, 1980 the Certified Public Manager Board ratified the constitution of the National Certified Public Manager® Consortium. The Consortium is designed to monitor accreditation standards and facilitate program development of CPM programs around the nation.\n\nThe CPM is linked with several professional organizations, including the American Academy of Certified Public Managers, an organization for individuals with CPM accreditation and the American Society for Public Administration (ASPA), which provides free membership for CPM graduates. Annually, the Texas CPM and ASPA host a CPM/ASPA conference. In 2007 a new ASPA section called the Section on Certified Public Management was created to promote professional development and training regarding ethical values and technical competencies associated with outstanding public service. In addition, the SCPM holds conferences, forums, seminars, and discussion events.\n\nThe Texas CPM program is designed to match professional development with the educational standards of ICMA.\n\nIn 2010 CPM began the first stage of international expansion by creating a CPM credential program for the Swedish National Defense College. The program will provide training for faculty, staff, and students in Sweden and the opportunity to attain CPM designation. The contract for the CPM program at the Swedish National Defense College was signed along with the William P. Hobby Center for Public Service which is affiliated with Texas State University - San Marcos and the National CPM Consortium. The program in Sweden is viewed as the first step toward more international expansion of the CPM.\n\nIn 2015, Leiden University Centre for Professional Learning in the Netherlands was the first international program to become a member of the National Certified Public Manager Consortium and be granted Associate status. Associate status grants authorization to develop an Accredited Certified Public Manager® Program. Leiden intends to develop a pilot multi-country program serving the European Union.\n\n\nAmerican Academy of Certified Public Managers http://www.cpmacademy.org/\n\nGood Governance Worldwide http://www.aspaonline.org/global\n\nNational Certified Public Manager® Consortium http://cpmconsortium.org\n"}
{"id": "2079605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2079605", "title": "Country of origin", "text": "Country of origin\n\nCountry of origin (COO), is the country of manufacture, production, or growth where an article or product comes from. There are differing rules of origin under various national laws and international treaties. Country of origin labelling is also known as \"place-based branding\", the \"made-in image\" or the \"nationality bias.\" In some regions or industries, country of origin labelling may adopt unique local terms such as terroir used to describe wine appellations based on the specific region where grapes are grown and wine manufactured.\n\nPlace-based branding has a very ancient history. Archaeological evidence points to packaging specifying the place of manufacture dating back to some 4,000 years ago. Over time, informal labels evolved into formal, often regulated labels providing consumers with information about product quality, manufacturer name and place of origin.\n\nCountry of origin of a product can have several possible definitions. It can refer to:\n\nThe inclusion of place of origin on manufactured goods has an ancient history. In antiquity, informal branding which included details such as the name of manufacturer and place of origin were used by consumers as important clues as to product quality. David Wengrow has found archaeological evidence of brands, which often included origin of manufacture, dating to around 4,000 years ago. Producers began by attaching simple stone seals to products which, over time, were transformed into clay seals bearing impressed images, often associated with the producer's personal identity thus providing information about the product and its quality. For instance, an object found in a royal burial tomb in Abydos (southern Egypt) and dating to around 3,000 B.C.E., carries brand elements that would be very familiar to modern consumers. Inscriptions on the surface denote a specific place of manufacture, \"finest oil of Tjehenu,\" a region in modern-day Libya.\n\nIn China, place-names appear to have developed independently during the Han Dynasty (220 BC-AD 200); brand names and place names were relatively commonplace on goods. Eckhardt and Bengtsson have argued that in the absence of a capitalist system, branding was connected to social systems and cultural contexts; that brand development was a consumer-initiated activity rather than the manufacturer-push normally associated with Western brand management practices.\n\nDiana Twede has shown that amphorae used in Mediterranean trade between 1500 and 500 BCE exhibited a wide variety of shapes and markings, which provided information for purchasers during exchange. Systematic use of stamped labels dates appears to date from around the fourth century BCE. In a largely pre-literate society, the shape of the amphora and its pictorial markings functioned as a brand, conveying information about the contents, region of origin and even the identity of the producer which were understood to function as signs of product quality.\n\nThe Romans preferred to purchase goods from specific places, such as oysters from Londinium and cinnamon from a specific mountain in Arabia, and these place-based preferences stimulated trade throughout Europe and the Middle East. In Pompeii and nearby Herculaneum, archaeological evidence also points to evidence of branding and labelling in relatively common use. Wine jars, for example, were stamped with names, such as \"Lassius\" and \"L. Eumachius;\" probably references to the name of the producer. Carbonized loaves of bread, found at Herculaneum, indicate that some bakers stamped their bread with the producer's name.\n\nUmbricius Scauras, a manufacturer of fish sauce (also known as garum) in Pompeii c. 35 C.E., was branding his amphora which travelled across the entire Mediterranean. Mosaic patterns in the atrium of his house were decorated with images of amphora bearing his personal brand and quality claims. The mosaic comprises four different amphora, one at each corner of the atrium, and bearing labels as follows:\nScauras' fish sauce was known to be of very high quality across the Mediterranean and its reputation travelled as far away as modern France.\nDuring the Medieval period in Europe, numerous market towns sprang up and competition between them intensified. In response to competitive pressures, towns began investing in developing a reputation for quality produce, efficient market regulation and good amenities for visitors. By the thirteenth century, English counties with important textile industries were investing in purpose built halls for the sale of cloth. London's Blackwell Hall became a centre for cloth, Bristol became associated with a particular type of cloth known as \"Bristol red\", Stroud was known for producing fine woollen cloth, the town of Worsted became synonymous with a type of yarn; Banbury and Essex were strongly associated with cheeses. Casson and Lee have argued that the chartered markets of England and Europe in medieval times were using the regional market's reputation as a sign of produce quality and that this acted as an early form of branding.\n\nFollowing the European age of expansion, goods were imported from afar. Marco Polo, for example, wrote about silk from China and spices from India. Consumers began to associate specific countries with merchandise - calico cloth from India, porcelain, silk and tea from China, spices from India and South-East Asia and tobacco, sugar, rum and coffee from the New World.\n\nBy the late 19th century, European countries began introducing country of origin labelling legislation. In the 20th century, as markets became more global and trade barriers removed, consumers had access to a broader range of goods from almost anywhere in the world. Country of origin is an important consideration in purchase decision-making.\n\nThe effects of country of origin labeling on consumer purchasing have been extensively studied. The country of origin effect is also known as the \"made-in image\" and the \"nationality bias.\"\n\nResearch shows that consumers' broad general perceptions of a country, including of its national characteristics, economic and political background, history, traditions, and representative products, combine to create an overall image or stereotype that is then attached to the products of that country. For example, a global survey carried out by Nielsen, reported that Country of origin image has a significant influence on consumer perceptions and behaviours, and in situations in which additional information is unavailable or difficult to get can be the sole determinant of whether or not someone buys a product. Its effect is strongest on consumers who don't know much about the product or product type, and weakest on consumers who are well-informed. Sensitivity to country of origin varies by product category. It is strongest for durable goods and luxury goods and weakest for \"low involvement\" product categories such as shampoo and candy. In various studies it has also been proven that the Country-of-Origin Effect also applies to services.\n\nSeveral studies have shown that consumers tend to have a relative preference to products from their own country or may have a relative preference for or aversion against products that originate from certain countries (so-called affinity and animosity countries).\n\nThe requirements for Country of Origin markings are complicated by the various designations which may be required such as \"Made in X\", \"Product of X\", \"Manufactured in X\" etc. They also vary by country of import and export. For example:\n\n\nSection 304 of the Tariff Act of 1930 as amended () requires most imports, including many food items, to bear labels informing the ultimate purchaser of their country of origin. Meats, produce, and several other raw agricultural products generally were exempt. The 2002 farm bill (P.L. 107-171, Sec. 10816), however, contains a requirement that many retail establishments provide, starting on September 30, 2004, country-of-origin information on fresh fruits and vegetables, red meats, seafood, and peanuts. However, the consolidated FY2004 appropriation (P.L. 108-199) signed January 23, 2004, delayed this requirement for two years except for seafood.\n\nThe Textile Fiber Products Identification Act and Wool Products Labeling Act require a Made in USA label on clothing and other textile or wool household products if the final product is manufactured in the U.S. of fabric that is manufactured in the U.S., regardless of where materials earlier in the manufacturing process (for example, the yarn and fiber) came from. Textile products that are imported must be labeled as required by the Customs Service. A textile or wool product partially manufactured in the U.S. and partially manufactured in another country must be labeled to show both foreign and domestic processing.\n\nOn a garment with a neck, the country of origin must be disclosed on the front of a label attached to the inside center of the neck, either midway between the shoulder seams or very near another label attached to the inside center of the neck. On a garment without a neck and on other kinds of textile products, the country of origin must appear on a conspicuous and readily accessible label on the inside or outside of the product.\n\nCatalogs and other mail order promotional materials for textile and wool products, including those disseminated on the Internet, must disclose whether a product is made in the U.S., imported, or both.\n\nThe Fur Products Labeling Act requires the country of origin of imported furs to be disclosed on all labels and in all advertising.\n\nThe American Automobile Labeling Act requires that each automobile manufactured on or after October 1, 1994, for sale in the U.S. bear a label disclosing where the car was assembled, the percentage of equipment that originated in the U.S. and Canada, and the country of origin of the engine and transmission. Any representation that a car marketer makes that is required by the AALA is exempt from the Commission’s policy. When a company makes claims in advertising or promotional materials that go beyond the AALA requirements, it will be held to the Commission’s standard.\n\nThe Buy American Act requires that a product be manufactured in the U.S. of more than 50 percent U.S. parts to be considered Made in USA for government procurement purposes. For more information, review the Buy American Act at 41 U.S.C. §§ 10a-10c, the Federal Acquisition Regulations at 48 C.F.R. Part 25, and the Trade Agreements Act at 19 U.S.C. §§ 2501-2582.\n\nThe Lanham Act gives any person (such as a competitor) who is damaged by a false designation of origin the right to sue the party making the false claim.\n\nCompanies may indicate the origin of their products with a number of different marketing strategies:\n\n\nWhen shipping products from one country to another, the products may have to be marked with country of origin, and the country of origin will generally be required to be indicated in the export/import documents and governmental submissions. Country of origin will affect its admissibility, the rate of duty, its entitlement to special duty or trade preference programs, antidumping, and government procurement.\n\nToday, many products are an outcome of a large number of parts and pieces that come from many different countries, and that may then be assembled together in a third country. In these cases, it's hard to know exactly what is the country of origin, and different rules apply as to how to determine their \"correct\" country of origin. Generally, articles only change their country of origin if the work or material added to an article in the second country constitutes a substantial transformation, or, the article changes its name, tariff code, character or use (for instance from wheel to car). Value added in the second country may also be an issue.\n\nIn principle, the \"substantial transformation\" of a product is intended as a change in the harmonized system coding. For example, a rough commodity sold from country \"A\" to country \"B\", than subjected of a transformation in country \"B\", which sells the final processed commodity to a country \"C\" is considered a sufficient step to label the end product \"made in B\".\n\nThe International Federation of Film Archives defines the country of origin as the \"country of the principal offices of the production company or individual by whom the moving image work was made\". No consistent reference or definition exists. Sources include the item itself, accompanying material (e.g. scripts, shot lists, production records, publicity material, inventory lists, synopses etc.), the container (if not an integral part of the piece), or other sources (standard and special moving image reference tools). In law, definitions of \"country of origin\" and related terms are defined differently in different jurisdictions. The European Union, Canada, and the United States have different definitions for a variety of reasons, including tax treatment, advertising regulations, distribution; even within the European Union, different member states have different legislation. As a result, an individual work can have multiple countries as its \"country of origin\", and may even have different countries recognized as originating places for the purpose of different legal jurisdictions. Under copyright law in the United States and other signatories of the Berne Convention, \"country of origin\" is defined in an inclusive way to ensure the protection of intellectual rights of writers and creators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52272", "title": "Creative Commons", "text": "Creative Commons\n\nCreative Commons (CC) is an American non-profit organization devoted to expanding the range of creative works available for others to build upon legally and to share. The organization has released several copyright-licenses known as Creative Commons licenses free of charge to the public. These licenses allow creators to communicate which rights they reserve, and which rights they waive for the benefit of recipients or other creators. An easy-to-understand one-page explanation of rights, with associated visual symbols, explains the specifics of each Creative Commons license. Creative Commons licenses do not replace copyright, but are based upon it. They replace individual negotiations for specific rights between copyright owner (licensor) and licensee, which are necessary under an \"all rights reserved\" copyright management, with a \"some rights reserved\" management employing standardized licenses for re-use cases where no commercial compensation is sought by the copyright owner. The result is an agile, low-overhead and low-cost copyright-management regime, benefiting both copyright owners and licensees.\n\nThe organization was founded in 2001 by Lawrence Lessig, Hal Abelson, and Eric Eldred with the support of Center for the Public Domain. The first article in a general interest publication about Creative Commons, written by Hal Plotkin, was published in February 2002. The first set of copyright licenses was released in December 2002. The founding management team that developed the licenses and built the Creative Commons infrastructure as we know it today included Molly Shaffer Van Houweling, Glenn Otis Brown, Neeru Paharia, and Ben Adida.\n\nIn 2002 the Open Content Project, a 1998 precursor project by David A. Wiley, announced the Creative Commons as successor project and Wiley joined as CC director. Aaron Swartz played a role in the early stages of Creative Commons, as did Matthew Haughey.\n\nAs of May 2018 there were an estimated 1.4 billion works licensed under the various Creative Commons licenses. Wikipedia uses one of these licenses. As of May 2018, Flickr alone hosts over 415 million Creative Commons licensed photos.\n\nCreative Commons is governed by a board of directors. Their licenses have been embraced by many as a way for creators to take control of how they choose to share their copyrighted works.\n\nCreative Commons has been described as being at the forefront of the copyleft movement, which seeks to support the building of a richer public domain by providing an alternative to the automatic \"all rights reserved\" copyright, and has been dubbed \"some rights reserved\". David Berry and Giles Moss have credited Creative Commons with generating interest in the issue of intellectual property and contributing to the re-thinking of the role of the \"commons\" in the \"information age\". Beyond that, Creative Commons has provided \"institutional, practical and legal support for individuals and groups wishing to experiment and communicate with culture more freely.\"\n\nCreative Commons attempts to counter what Lawrence Lessig, founder of Creative Commons, considers to be a dominant and increasingly restrictive permission culture. Lessig describes this as \"a culture in which creators get to create only with the permission of the powerful, or of creators from the past.\" Lessig maintains that modern culture is dominated by traditional content distributors in order to maintain and strengthen their monopolies on cultural products such as popular music and popular cinema, and that Creative Commons can provide alternatives to these restrictions.\n\nUntil April 2018 Creative Commons had over 100 affiliates working in over 75 jurisdictions to support and promote CC activities around the world. In 2018 this affiliate network has been restructured into a network organisation. The network no longer relies on affiliate organisation but on individual membership organised in Chapter.\n\nCreative Commons Korea (CC Korea) is the affiliated network of Creative Commons in South Korea. In March 2005, CC Korea was initiated by Jongsoo Yoon (in Korean: 윤종수), a Presiding Judge of Incheon District Court, as a project of Korea Association for Infomedia Law (KAFIL). The major Korean portal sites, including Daum and Naver, have been participating in the use of Creative Commons licences. In January 2009, the Creative Commons Korea Association was consequently founded as a non-profit incorporated association. Since then, CC Korea has been actively promoting the liberal and open culture of creation as well as leading the diffusion of Creative Common in the country.\n\n\nBassel Khartabil was a Palestinian Syrian open source software developer and has served as project lead and public affiliate for Creative Commons Syria. From March 15, 2012 he was detained by the Syrian government in Damascus at Adra Prison. On October 17, 2015 Creative Commons Board of Directors approved a resolution calling for Bassel Khartabil's release. In 2017 Bassel's wife received confirmation that Bassel had been executed shortly after she lost contact with him in 2015.\n\nAll current CC licenses (except the CC0 Public Domain Dedication tool) require attribution, which can be inconvenient for works based on multiple other works. Critics feared that Creative Commons could erode the copyright system over time or allow \"some of our most precious resources – the creativity of individuals – to be simply tossed into the commons to be exploited by whomever has spare time and a magic marker.\"\n\nCritics also worried that the lack of rewards for content producers will dissuade artists from publishing their work, and questioned whether Creative Commons is the commons that it purports to be.\n\nCreative Commons founder Lawrence Lessig countered that copyright laws have not always offered the strong and seemingly indefinite protection that today's law provides. Rather, the duration of copyright used to be limited to much shorter terms of years, and some works never gained protection because they did not follow the now-abandoned compulsory format.\n\nThe maintainers of Debian, a GNU and Linux distribution known for its rigid adherence to a particular definition of software freedom, rejected the Creative Commons Attribution License prior to version 3 as incompatible with the Debian Free Software Guidelines (DFSG) due to the license's anti-DRM provisions (which might, due to ambiguity, be covering more than DRM) and its requirement that downstream users remove an author's credit upon request from the author. Version 3.0 of the Creative Commons licenses addressed these concerns and except for the non commercial variants are considered to be compatible with the DFSG.\n\nKent Anderson, writing for \"The Scholarly Kitchen\", a blog of the Society for Scholarly Publishing, criticizes CC as being dependent on copyright and not really departing from it, and as being more complex and complicating than the latter – thus the public does not scrutinize CC, reflexively accepting it as one would a software license – while at the same time weakening the rights provided by copyright. Anderson ends up concluding that this is the point, and that \"Creative Commons receives significant funding from large information companies like Google, Nature Publishing Group, and RedHat\", and that Google money is especially linked to CC's history; for him, CC is \"an organization designed to promulgate the interests of technology companies and Silicon Valley generally\".\n\nMako Hill asserted that Creative Commons fails to establish a \"base level of freedom\" that all Creative Commons licenses must meet, and with which all licensors and users must comply. \"By failing to take any firm ethical position and draw any line in the sand, CC is a missed opportunity. ... CC has replaced what could have been a call for a world where 'essential rights are unreservable' with the relatively hollow call for 'some rights reserved. He also argued that Creative Commons worsens license proliferation, by providing multiple licenses that are incompatible.\n\nThe Creative Commons website states, \"Since each of the six CC licenses functions differently, resources placed under different licenses may not necessarily be combined with one another without violating the license terms.\" Works licensed under incompatible licenses may not be recombined in a derivative work without obtaining permission from the copyright owner.\n\nRichard Stallman of the FSF stated in 2005 that he couldn't support Creative Commons as an activity because \"it adopted some additional licenses which do not give everyone that minimum freedom\", that freedom being \"the freedom to share, noncommercially, any published work\". Those licenses have since been retired by Creative Commons.\n\nCreative Commons is only a service provider for standardized license text, not a party in any agreement. Abusive users can brand the copyrighted works of legitimate copyright holders with Creative Commons licenses and re-upload these works to the internet. No central database of Creative Commons works is controlling all licensed works and the responsibility of the Creative Commons system rests entirely with those using the licences. This situation is, however, not specific to Creative Commons. All copyright owners must individually defend their rights and no central database of copyrighted works or existing license agreements exists. The United States Copyright Office does keep a database of all works registered with it, but absence of registration does not imply absence of copyright.\n\nAlthough Creative Commons offers multiple licenses for different uses, some critics suggested that the licenses still do not address the differences among the media or among the various concerns that different authors have.\n\nLessig wrote that the point of Creative Commons is to provide a middle ground between two extreme views of copyright protection – one demanding that all rights be controlled, and the other arguing that none should be controlled. Creative Commons provides a third option that allows authors to pick and choose which rights they want to control and which they want to grant to others. The multitude of licenses reflects the multitude of rights that can be passed on to subsequent creators.\n\nErik Möller raised concerns about the use of Creative Commons' non-commercial license. Works distributed under the Creative Commons Non-Commercial license are not compatible with many open-content sites, including Wikipedia, which explicitly allow and encourage some commercial uses. Möller explained that \"the people who are likely to be hurt by an -NC license are not large corporations, but small publications like weblogs, advertising-funded radio stations, or local newspapers.\"\n\nLessig responded that the current copyright regime also harms compatibility and that authors can lessen this incompatibility by choosing the least restrictive license. Additionally, the non-commercial license is useful for preventing someone else from capitalizing on an author's work when the author still plans to do so in the future. The non-commercial licenses have also been criticized for being too vague about which uses count as \"commercial\" and \"non-commercial\".\n\nGreat Minds, a non-profit educational publisher that released works under an -NC license, sued FedEx for violating the license because a school had used its services to mass-produce photocopies of the work, thus commercially exploiting the works. A U.S. judge dismissed the case in February 2017, ruling that FedEx was an intermediary, and that the provision of the license \"does not limit a licensee's ability to use third parties in exercising the rights granted [by the licensor].\" Great Minds appealed the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit later that year. The 2nd Circuit upheld the lower court's decision in March 2018, concluding that FedEx neither infringed copyrights nor violated the license. One of circuit judges Susan L. Carney argued in the court statement:\n\nWe hold that, in view of the absence of any clear license language to the contrary, licensees may use third‐party agents such as commercial reproduction services in furtherance of their own permitted noncommercial uses. Because FedEx acted as the mere agent of licensee school districts when it reproduced Great Minds' materials, and because there is no dispute that the school districts themselves sought to use Great Minds' materials for permissible purposes, we conclude that FedEx's activities did not breach the license or violate Great Minds' copyright.\n\nIn 2007, Virgin Mobile Australia launched a bus stop advertising campaign which promoted its mobile phone text messaging service using the work of amateur photographers who uploaded their work to the photo-sharing site Flickr using a Creative Commons by Attribution license. Users licensing their images this way freed their work for use by any other entity, as long as the original creator was attributed credit, without any other compensation being required. Virgin upheld this single restriction by printing a URL, leading to the photographer's Flickr page, on each of their ads. However, one picture depicted 15-year-old Alison Chang posing for a photo at her church's fund-raising carwash, with the superimposed, mocking slogan \"Dump Your Pen Friend\". Chang sued Virgin Mobile and Creative Commons. The photo was taken by Chang's church youth counsellor, Justin Ho-Wee Wong, who uploaded the image to Flickr under the Creative Commons license.\n\nOn 27 November 2007, Chang filed for a voluntary dismissal of the lawsuit against Creative Commons, focusing their lawsuit against Virgin Mobile. The case was thrown out of court due to lack of jurisdiction and subsequently Virgin Mobile did not incur any damages towards the plaintiff.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1626904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1626904", "title": "Cynthia Payne", "text": "Cynthia Payne\n\nCynthia Payne (24 December 193215 November 2015) was an English brothel keeper and party hostess who made headlines in the 1970s and 1980s, when she was acquitted of running a brothel at 32 Ambleside Avenue, in Streatham, a southwestern suburb of London.\n\nPayne first came to national attention in 1978 when police raided her home and found a sex party was in progress. Men paid with luncheon vouchers to dress up in lingerie and be spanked by young women. Police found 53 men at her residence, in varying levels of undress, which included \"a peer of the realm, an MP, a number of solicitors and company directors and several vicars\". A cartoon in the press at the time, according to Sarah Baxter in \"The Sunday Times\", \"showed a vicar in bed with a prostitute, confronted by a policeman. 'I demand to see my solicitor,' said the vicar, 'who is in the next bedroom.'\" \n\nWhen the case came to trial in 1980, Payne was sentenced to eighteen months in prison, reduced to a fine and six months on appeal. She served four months in Holloway prison.\n\nIn 1986, the police raided Payne’s home again, this time during a \"special party\" she was hosting after shooting of the film of her life had been completed. Although she was acquitted on this occasion, the resulting court case in 1987 made headlines for several weeks with lurid tales, some details of which she aired on \"The Dame Edna Experience\" in 1987, with co-guests Sir John Mills and Rudolf Nureyev, on which she also launched her book, \"Entertaining at Home\". The court case ended Payne’s career as a party giver.\n\nOn the programme, Payne expressed an interest in becoming a Member of Parliament in order to change Britain's sex laws, which she followed through by standing for Parliament as a candidate for the Payne and Pleasure Party in the Kensington by-election in July 1988, followed by her standing in her own area of Streatham for the Rainbow Dream Ticket in the 1992 UK General Election. She did not gain a parliamentary seat.\n\nThere are two films that are loosely based on her life, both released in 1987: \"Wish You Were Here\", about her adolescence, with Emily Lloyd in the lead role, and \"Personal Services\", about her adult life, starring Julie Walters. Both were written (and \"Wish You Were Here\" was directed) by David Leland. \n\nPayne made appearances as an after-dinner speaker and launched a range of \"adult\" services and products in 2006.\n\nPayne died on 15 November 2015, aged 82. Her family celebrated her life a month later with a colourful humanist funeral, in accordance with her wishes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6967338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6967338", "title": "Election Commission of Thailand", "text": "Election Commission of Thailand\n\nThe Election Commission (, ) is an independent government agency and the sole election management body of Thailand. It oversees government elections (parliamentary elections and local elections) as well as referendums throughout the Kingdom of Thailand. Established by the 2007 Constitution, the Election Commission (EC) has extensive powers to manage, oversee, and regulate the electoral process. The EC has reacted to irregularities in the 2000 Senate elections, the 2006 House elections, and the 2007 House elections, forcing re-elections and disqualifying many candidates.\n\nThe primary role of the commission is to ensure that elections carried out in the Kingdom of Thailand are lawful and compatible with the constitution. It is also in charge of enforcing national election laws covering: House of Representatives, Senate, Districts, Referendums, Bangkok gubernatorial elections and political parties. Its constitutional duty includes the publication of all election returns, therefore formalizing them. The commissioners also have the right to disqualify a candidate, or call for a re-count for a particular seat.\n\nThe EC's responsibilities include the organization, management, and counting of all elections and voting in the kingdom. It advises the National Assembly on future policies concerning elections and suffrage. The commission has legal powers as a law enforcement agency to investigate and indict those who compromise election laws through bribery, corruption, vote buying, or blackmail. The commission has the power to investigate the finances and donor lists of all political parties. It informs the public of elections and their importance.\n\nIn FY2019 the EC is allocated 8,247 million baht, more than tripling from the FY2018 budget of 2,265 million baht.\n\nThe Election Commission of Thailand is composed of a committee of five members, one chairman () and four election commissioners (). The administrative side of the commission is run by the secretary-general (). As well as being regular members of the commission, the five members are also given various responsibilities. All commissioners are appointed by the king, with the advice of the Senate of Thailand; for a term of seven years. The current commission is the fourth team of election commissioners, appointed 13 December 2013.\n\nPrior to 1992, the responsibility of overseeing elections fell on the Ministry of Interior or Mahatthai Ministry. Under the premiership of Anand Panyarachun after the Thai general election of 1992, the prime minister realised the need to create a central and independent body, whose sole purpose was to regulate and manage elections. As a result, on 22 March 1992 the \"Committee to Administer and Investigate Elections to the House of Representatives\" () was created, a precursor of the commission. The commission in its current form was created by the 1997 Constitution of Thailand.\n\nThe Thai general election of 2006, was held on 9 April for the House of Representatives and 19 April for the Senate. The main opposition parties, composed of the Democrat Party, the Chart Thai Party, and the Mahachon Party, boycotted the election on the grounds that Thaksin Shinawatra's government had unfairly called an election to divert public attention form the Shin Corp scandal. Despite this, the election went ahead.\n\nOn 3 April 2006, the People's Alliance for Democracy (PAD) petitioned the Administrative Court to suspend the results of the election and accused the Election Commission of violating voter privacy. It accused the commission of placing voting booths so that voters' backs were to the public, when in all previous elections, voters faced the public, with a barrier one-half meter tall at the front of the booth separating the voter from the public. The commission claimed the new arrangement was designed to prevent various forms of polling fraud including the use of cameras by voters to take photographs of their ballots. After the 2005 election, cameras and camera phones were banned from voting stations due to fears that canvassers would demand ballot photographs in return for money. However, the PAD claimed that this allowed onlookers to peek over voters' shoulders and see who they voted for.\n\nThe elections were eventually declared invalid by Thailand's Constitutional Court, which found the positioning of voting booths violated voter privacy. The Constitutional Court forced the Election Commission to resign over its management of the April elections. The court failed to persuade the EC president to resign. It did, however, prevent the Senate from appointing a replacement for commissioner Jaral Buranapansri, who had died. This prevented the commission from achieving a quorum. It later found the remaining commissioners guilty of malfeasance and jailed them for one night. An entirely new commission was appointed.\n\nA number of MPs (mainly those elected for the PPP) were given \"red cards\" for alleged vote buying, meaning they would not be able to contest the resulting by-elections. Other MPs were issued \"yellow cards\" and not banned from contesting the by-elections. By 3 January 2008, the Election Commission had endorsed 397 MPs and was still investigating 83 MPs for fraud.\n\nBy-elections were held on 13 January, 17 January, 20 January (the day before the first session of the newly elected parliament) and 27 January 2008. The Electoral Commission was still looking into allegations of fraud by PPP deputy leader Yongyuth Tiyaphairat. If given a red card, the PPP faced dissolution. PPP officials stated that they are not worried about dissolution, and that they would simply find a new party instead; local reports stated that a likely candidate for takeover by PPP members would be the Thai Land Power Party (\"Palang Pandin Thai Party\").\n\nDisqualified were:\n\nNo major event occurred.\n\nOn 19 July, both Yingluck Shinawatra and Abhisit Vejjajiva were acknowledged as members of the House. On 27 July, the acknowledgement extended to further ninety four elected candidates. Now and eventually, the number acknowledged sufficed to constitute the House. This, however, did not include Jatuporn Prompan whom the Election Commission declared to have lost the suffrage due to failure to vote in both the previous and the present elections. The Constitution requires that a member of the House must possess the suffrage, and also prescribes that a person failing to vote in an election loses the suffrage but regains it once voting in the next election.\n\nThe Election Commission's announcements of the acknowledgement were published in the Government Gazette as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "47457997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47457997", "title": "Environmental Integrity Project", "text": "Environmental Integrity Project\n\nThe Environmental Integrity Project (EIP) is a Washington, D.C.-based environmental nonprofit organization that advocates for more effective enforcement of environmental laws. The organization was founded in 2002 by former U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) attorneys, Eric V. Schaeffer and Michele Merkel. EIP is known for its legal and investigative efforts to reduce air and water pollution from coal-fired power plants, oil and gas facilities, factory farms, and other sources including incinerators and waste water treatment plants. The group also focuses on environmental justice and pollution in the Chesapeake Bay. EIP is headquartered in Washington, DC, and it has another office in Austin, TX and staff in Pennsylvania, Vermont, and Georgia. In 2013, Charity Navigator, an independent charity evaluator, rated EIP as a four-star charity organization.\n\nEIP maintains Ashtracker.org, a website that provides records about groundwater contamination at coal ash dumps. The site relies on industry-reported data from state and company records.\n\nThe Environmental Integrity Project’s objectives are to “1) To provide objective analysis of how the failure to enforce or implement environmental laws increases pollution and affects the public's health; 2) To hold federal and state agencies, as well as individual corporations, accountable for failing to enforce or comply with environmental laws; 3) To help local communities in key states obtain the protection of environmental laws.”\n\n"}
{"id": "26275688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26275688", "title": "Executive Order 12036", "text": "Executive Order 12036\n\nExecutive Order 12036 is a United States Presidential Executive Order signed on January 24, 1978, by President Jimmy Carter that imposed restrictions on and reformed the U.S. Intelligence Community along with further banning indirect U.S. involvement in assassinations. The EO was designed to strengthen and expand Executive Order 11905, which was originally signed by Gerald R. Ford in 1976.\n\nUpon taking office in 1977, President Jimmy Carter's administration with input from Congress immediately began to revise EO 11905 that was signed late in the previous year. Pressure and the need for reform of the U.S. Intelligence Community still existed from the Church and Pike Committees. EO 12036 would be signed barely a year after Carter took office on January 24, 1978. The EO was hailed by Senator Walter D. Huddleston and Jimmy Carter as having the most input from the President and Congress amongst EOs up until that day. Carter also intended the EO to be temporary until new intelligence reform legislation could be put into law. EO 12036 would be superseded by new legislation in the future.\n\nExecutive Order 12036 created new oversight committees and offered many new restrictions on the U.S. Intelligence Community. The EO set-up the duties and requirements of two National Security Council cabinet-level committees that had been previously created by Carter in 1977. The Policy Review Committee was given the responsibility of defining priorities for intelligence collection and analysis. The Policy Review committee which was chaired by the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) and also included the Vice President, National Security Advisor, Secretary of State, Secretary of Defense and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff would also prioritize intelligence community budget allocations.\n\nThe EO replaced Gerald Ford's (EO 11905) Operations Advisory Group and replaced it with the Special Coordination Committee which was much like the Policy Review Committee. The EO also imposed a lengthy list of restrictions on the U.S. Intelligence Community to ensure \"full compliance with the laws of the United States.\" One of the main restrictions was that no intelligence operation would be undertaken against a U.S. citizen \"unless the President has authorized the type of activity involved and the Attorney General has both approved the particular activity and determined that there is probable cause to believe that the United States person is an agent of a foreign power.\" This included banning any Central Intelligence Agency electronic surveillance in the U.S. and leaving the Federal Bureau of Investigation as the only intelligence community member allowed to conduct physical searches within the U.S.\n\nThe EO also created the National Foreign Intelligence Board (NFIB) in order to assist the DCI with \"Production, review, and coordination of national foreign intelligence.\" The NFIB was chaired by the DCI and included representatives from every agency in the intelligence community. The DCI and agency heads were also expected to keep various congressional committees up to date with intelligence community activity.\n\nThe EO also expanded the U.S. ban on assassination by closing \"loop-holes\" and stating \"No person employed by or acting on behalf of the United States Government shall engage in, or conspire to engage in, assassination.\" This ban on assassination would be restated in Executive Order 12333.\n\n"}
{"id": "436451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436451", "title": "Finders, keepers", "text": "Finders, keepers\n\nFinders, keepers is an English adage with the premise that when something is unowned or abandoned, whoever finds it first can claim it. This idiom relates to an ancient Roman law of similar meaning and has been expressed in various ways over the centuries. Of particular difficulty is how best to define when exactly something is unowned or abandoned, which can lead to legal or ethical disputes.\n\n\nThe children's rhyme upon discovering a lost object is \"Finders, keepers; Losers, weepers\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25686342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25686342", "title": "Flour War", "text": "Flour War\n\nThe Flour War refers to a wave of riots from April to May 1775, in the northern, eastern, and western parts of the Kingdom of France. It followed an increase in grain prices, and subsequently bread prices; bread was an important source of food among the populace. Contributing factors to the riots include poor weather and harvests, and the withholding by police of public grain supplies from the royal stores in 1773-74. This large-scale revolt subsided following wheat price controls imposed by Turgot, Louis XVI's Controller-General of Finances (before the supply recovered), and the deploying of military troops. \n\nThe Flour War was part of a broader social and political crisis during the Ancien Régime. Recent analyses tend to treat this event not only as a revolt caused by hunger, but also as a prelude to the French Revolution. \n\nIn Ancien Régime France, bread was the main source of food for poor peasants and the king was required to ensure the food supply of his subjects, being affectionately nicknamed \"le premier boulanger du royaume\" (\"prime baker of the kingdom\"). During this period, the role of the royal police involved far more than simply upholding the law. Police held responsibility over many systems in society, even street sweeping, they also exercised a strict control over the food supply. In order to maintain social order, the grain market was subject to harsh rules to ensure the quality of the bread and its availability at all times and for the entire population. Grain merchants were viewed with suspicion, they were called \"the most cruel enemies of the people\" because they were suspected of mixing flour with other products (such as chalk or crushed bones) or of hoarding grain to raise artificially the price of this vital commodity. The Ancien Régime favoured a \"moral economy\" where cupidity was moderated by strict regulations. The police controlled the purity of the flour and made sure that no one would hide grain to drive up prices. Food scarcity was common in the 18th century, but the grain police would forbid exports from regions facing bad harvests and would import grain from regions enjoying overproduction. It could also force a merchant to drop the price of his flour (he was later compensated for his loss in times of abundance).\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, the physiocrat school of economy emerged. The physiocrats, or \"économistes\" as they called themselves, had a great impact on Turgot, who was to become Controller-General of Finances preceding the riots. Their opinion on what government economic policy should be was summarized in the term Vincent de Gournay laid claim to: \"laissez faire, laissez passer\", meaning leave it alone and let it pass, also known as the \"invisible hand\" notion. Turgot passionately defended Gournay's belief in \"laissez-faire\" economic principles in his writing \"Éloge de Gournay\". Accordingly, Turgot abolished police regulations and established free trade in grain on 13 September 1774.\n\nDuring the period before the spring harvest of 1775, the cereal reserves were exhausted while new crops had not yet arrived. In spring 1775, famine arose: before Turgot's edict, every region faced its own shortages, so that some would have suffered a genuine famine while others would have been totally spared and supplied through stable prices; a royal intervention would have been requested, and without a doubt obtained, to assure the supply of the regions most affected. With liberalization, owners of grain started to speculate by storing grain. They also tend to buy en masse in areas of good harvests to sell in areas of bad harvests where profits could be greater, causing significant price increases and shortages all over and affecting more people more quickly. Changes to grain and bread supply had serious implications, and was met with disorder. This conflict was known as the \"Flour War of 1775\". Reports from those that controlled the flow of grain stated there were problems with the grain harvest which caused shortages and less grain availability. The price of grain also increased, and became hard for some to afford. News of a grain shortage was met with skepticism and frustration rose from higher prices. Those in opposition of the reform rioted, and seized grain that came in on shipments. They offered what they felt was the \"just price\" for it. This demonstrated a way in which the people took some power back into their own hands. This practice was known as \"taxation populaire\", or popular taxation.\n\nWhile there were documented efforts to deal with the grain shortage problems, such as increasing shipments from foreign countries, beliefs that the famine was intentionally orchestrated by Louis XVI, through the \"Pacte de Famine\", emerged. Turgot repressed the riots and restored controls over the grain market. The idea of free trade of grain was discredited and the economic experiment distanced the masses from the government in Versailles. The Flour War can be seen as a prelude to the French Revolution.\n\nThese events can be interpreted as a reaction against the edict from Turgot, which liberalized grain commerce on September 13, 1774; indeed, this liberalization appeared contrary to a \"moral economy\", as some people were hoarding flour in order to drive up prices. This shortage of flour broke the principle that required the king to ensure the security of his subjects and their food supply. Said Flour War was in line with previous wheat fluctuations, and ushered in the wheat riots of Year II.\n\nDuring the period before the spring harvest of 1775, the cereal reserves were exhausted while the new harvest had not yet arrived. In spring 1775, famine arose in this new context: before Turgot's edict, every region faced its own shortages, so that some would have suffered a genuine famine while others would have been totally spared and supplied through stable prices; a royal intervention would have been requested, and without a doubt obtained, to assure the supply of the regions most affected. With liberalization, grains could leave spared regions to go the worst affected areas, causing significant price increases and shortages all over affecting more people more quickly.\n\nThe price of grain and of bread rose suddenly, and became a desperate burden on the poorest populations. There ensued major popular unrest at markets and other flour distribution locations. Rumors spread against the \"power-grabbers\" and \"monopolizers\". This type of popular reaction against the merchants was a constant in times of famine, but it took on an unusual depth.\n\nFor a long time, the theory of a political plot woven against Turgot by various coteries of the Court has been advanced as an explanatory factor, a thesis historian George Rudé has dashed.\n\nOver 17 days, 180 conflicts would be listed from the Paris Basin; Jean Nicolas notes 123 distinct riots. Cynthia Bouton turns up 313 occurrences, sometimes interpreted as \"anarchic movements\", sometimes as the anticipation of rural revolts. These demonstrations of the moral economy took three distinct forms:\n\nVictims were usually merchants or farmers, but more common, as shown by Cynthia Bouton, they were the direct representatives of power. The riots were often directed against the profiteer millers or against counselors of parliament, as they were that day, April 18, in Dijon. On April 27, the movement hit the great cultivated plains, initially West Burgundy then, gradually, Beauvaisis, and finally Beauce and Brie. The rebels were in front of Versailles on May 2 and 3; the mob plundered the bakeries of Paris. Louis XVI appeared anxious, because some slogans and lampoons implicated his court. The destruction was in reality very limited, the main targets were the boats carrying the wheat, which were sunk.\n\nOrder was reestablished by a pair of government actions:\n\nFive months were needed to put a definitive end to the trouble, but most of the problems were over by May 11, 1775.\n\n. For Kaplan, the event marked the growing disenchantment of the people toward the king, a step toward the rupture of the sacred bond between the king and his subjects.\n\nThe rioters' targets were therefore those individuals who were free of communal discipline: farmers and owners of large farms in the Paris Basin, and, to a lesser extent, the bourgeoisie of the cities. Occasionally, noble landholders or clerics, farmers who had status in the feudal system, for example Jacques-Pierre de Hericourt, farmer of Cagny, in Brie, lord of Chesany.\n\nJean-François Parot's historical novel \"Le sang des farines\" (Eng. title: \"The Baker's Blood\") centers upon the events in Paris during the Flour War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "455555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455555", "title": "Frank H. Easterbrook", "text": "Frank H. Easterbrook\n\nFrank Hoover Easterbrook (born September 3, 1948) is a United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. He was Chief Judge from November 2006 to October 2013, and has been a judge on the court since 1985.\n\nEasterbrook was born in Buffalo, New York on September 3, 1948, the son of Vimy and George Easterbrook. He is the older brother of author Gregg Easterbrook and of Neil, an English professor at Texas Christian University. Easterbrook attended Kenmore West High School in Tonawanda New York, where he was the classmate of Wolf Blitzer. The two were good friends and were the leads of the KWHS rendition of \"The Diary of Anne Frank\". Easterbrook's future wife was property mistress of the production. He attended Swarthmore College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and received his Bachelor of Arts degree with high honors. He received his Juris Doctor from the University of Chicago Law School (where he was an editor of the law review with Douglas H. Ginsburg and a member of the Order of the Coif) in 1973, and then clerked for Judge Levin Hicks Campbell on the First Circuit.\n\nIn 1974, along with Danny Boggs, he joined the United States Solicitor General's office as an Assistant to the Solicitor General, and was promoted in 1978 to Deputy Solicitor General. The solicitor general at the time was Robert Bork, and Easterbrook has reminisced that when he joined the Solicitor General's office, \"\"The Washington Post\" noted that around the same time the SG's Office had hired three lawyers either fresh from clerkships or lacking the customary appellate experience. None of us had clerked on the Supreme Court. The \"Post\" concluded that good lawyers were no longer willing to work for the Solicitor General and attributed this to Bork's role in firing Archibald Cox as Watergate special prosecutor. The paper thought that dark days lay ahead for the Office with a second-rate staff. The three bottom-of-the-barrel selections were Robert Reich (later Secretary of Labor in the Clinton Administration), Danny Boggs (future Chief Judge of the Sixth Circuit), and me.\" Easterbrook was considered \"one of the very top advocates appearing before the Supreme Court in his days at the bar\".\n\nEasterbrook joined the faculty of the University of Chicago Law School in 1978 (and is still a senior lecturer there today), and was a principal at Lexecon from 1980 until his judicial appointment. Easterbrook argued 20 cases before the Supreme Court while in the Solicitor General's office and in private practice, including several landmark antitrust cases.\n\nEasterbrook was nominated to the court by Ronald Reagan on August 1, 1984 to a new seat created by 98 Stat. 333, 346; the United States Senate did not act on his nomination that year, and he was renominated in Reagan's second term on February 25, 1985.\n\nHe was confirmed by the Senate on April 3, 1985, and received his commission the next day. The American Bar Association gave Easterbrook a low \"qualified/not qualified\" rating, presumably due to his youth and relative inexperience. In 2001 this rating was claimed by the George W. Bush administration as evidence of liberal bias in the ABA in its announcement that it would no longer confer with the ABA in selecting judicial nominees.\n\nAmong Judge Easterbrook's most prominent opinions are:\n\nAs a young judge in one of his early opinions, \"Kirchoff v. Flynn\", 786 F.2d 320 (CA7 1986), a lawsuit over an arrest for feeding pigeons in a park, Easterbrook used such language as \"trundled to the squadrol\" to describe an arrest; and states of the pigeon-feeder that she \"will never be confused with the 30th Earl of Mar, whose hobby was kicking pigeons\". He described a controversy over whether a police officer, or the plaintiff's own bird, had attacked the plaintiff as: \"[Plaintiff] says that he was clobbered by a pair of handcuffs; [the officer] maintains that the [plaintiffs]' red macaw drew the blood when it landed on [plaintiff]'s head during the fracas and started pecking\". In a footnote, he added \"Predatory birds rarely attack large animals whose eyes they can see, 11 Harv.Med. School Health Letter 8 (Feb.1986), and perhaps William's eyes got distracted, to his macaw's glee.\" This serves as an example of Easterbrook's sophisticated deftness with language and breadth of knowledge. This deftness sometimes, however, results in passages from his opinions that require dictionaries in order for a layman to understand, such as in \"Frantz v. U.S. Powerlifting Federation\", 836 F.2d 1063 (7th Cir. 1987), where he wrote, \"The absence of ineluctable answers does not imply the privilege to indulge an unexamined gestalt.\"\n\nUniversity of Chicago Law School Dean Saul Levmore stated that \"Easterbrook is an important influence on legal education through his judicial opinions. Course after law school course has changed for the better as Judge Easterbrook’s opinions have made their way into the curriculum. So long as he decides cases, and decides them in a way that cuts to the heart of an issue with such skill and pressure, no area of law can be dull\".\n\nEasterbrook had a reputation for being \"hard-nosed and demanding\" during oral argument. In \"Schlessinger v. Salimes\" (1996), for example, he characterized the lawsuit as \"goofy\" and the appellant's arguments as \"nutty\" before issuing an order to show cause why the appellant and lawyer should not be sanctioned for a frivolous appeal. His demeanor has won him enemies in the bar. In 1994 the Chicago Council of Lawyers published an \"evaluation\" of the Seventh Circuit that evaluated all the judges and the court's procedures in general, but notably focused extensively on only two: Easterbrook and then-chief judge Richard Posner. The evaluation of Easterbrook contained an unusual number of grievances; and the Council did not specify authorship, so the criticism is anonymous. In a section devoted to Easterbrook's judicial demeanor, the report claims he \"has consistently displayed a temperament that is improper for a Circuit Judge. While Judge Easterbrook has many good qualities, there is a widespread belief that he is arrogant and intolerant with those who do not match his own intellectual level. This problem seriously interferes with the performance of his duties\". The report continued to state Easterbrook \"has been resoundingly and repeatedly criticized as being extremely rude to attorneys at oral argument\" and that \"some attorneys\" said that due to the judge's demeanor they and their clients did not feel they got a fair hearing. The Council pointed to another opinion, \"Kale v. Obuchowski\", which derided a lawyer's argument as \"pettifoggery\" and concluded that the appeal was \"frivolous, doomed and sanctionable\". The Council argued that even if the lawyer's conduct was sanctionable, \"the language chosen does not enhance the administration of justice\".\n\nHowever, this review by the Council was never repeated, lending partial support to the defenders of Easterbrook and Posner that the report was an opportunity for anonymous venting by lawyers who were unhappy with the results of Seventh Circuit decisions, in no small part thanks to the decisions of Reagan appointees Easterbrook and Posner. Posner has recently commented about the report, \"You have here some anonymous people who are talking to the Chicago Council of Lawyers. How much credence should we put on these people? They can be sore losers. They can be crybabies.\"\n\nEasterbrook served as Chief Judge of the Seventh Circuit from 2006 to 2013. He is a member of the Judicial Conference of the United States and head of the Judicial Council for the Seventh Circuit.\n\nEasterbrook called Learned Hand and Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. his \"judicial heroes\".\n\nIn December 2017, Easterbrook supported the 4-3 en banc decision to reverse an earlier federal magistrate judgement that a confession had been unlawfully coerced from 16 year old Brendan Dassey. The dissenting opinion described this decision as 'a travesty of justice'.\n\nEasterbrook's academic work focuses on corporate law, particularly the 1991 book \"The Economic Structure of Corporate Law\", which he coauthored with Daniel Fischel. Easterbrook's article, \"The Proper Role of a Target's Management in Responding to a Tender Offer\", 94 Harv. L. Rev. 1161 (1981) (also coauthored with Fischel) is the most heavily cited corporate law article in legal scholarship. Easterbrook has also written articles on antitrust law and judicial interpretation, including \"Abstraction and Authority\", 59 U. Chi. L. Rev. 349 (1992); \"Statutes' Domains\", 50 U. Chi. L. Rev. 533 (1983); and \"Textualism and the Dead Hand\", 66 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 1119 (1998).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1921596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1921596", "title": "Granholm v. Heald", "text": "Granholm v. Heald\n\nGranholm v. Heald, 544 U.S. 460 (2005), was a court case decided by the Supreme Court of the United States in a 5–4 decision that ruled that laws in New York and Michigan that permitted in-state wineries to ship wine directly to consumers, but prohibited out-of-state wineries from doing the same, were unconstitutional. The case was unusual because the arguments centered on the rarely invoked 21st Amendment to the Constitution, ratified in 1933, which ended Prohibition in the United States.\n\n\"Granholm v. Heald\" was the conclusion of an eight-year fight by small wineries against these laws. Although direct shipments to consumers constituted only about 2% of wine sales in the United States (whose total sales were $21.6 billion in 2003), direct sales were thought to be an opportunity for growth. Laws varied from state to state, but typically a winery could distribute wine only by selling it to a wholesaler in the state. Retailers were then required to purchase from the wholesalers. This made the large wholesalers very powerful in the wine industry; if wholesalers in New York decided not to purchase wine from a particular winery, then that winery would be completely shut out of the New York market.\n\nThe court case, which was a consolidation of two separate lawsuits, pitted the Dormant Commerce Clause doctrine, inferred from the Constitution's Article I, against Section Two of the 21st Amendment. \nSection Two of the 21st Amendment reads:\nThe Commerce Clause of Article One of the Constitution grants Congress the power:\n\nIn turn, the Dormant Commerce Clause (or \"DCC\") has been inferred from the Commerce Clause. The DCC is a doctrine, evolved over many decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court, that the states do not have the power to enact anticompetitive laws that discriminate against sellers in other states without the permission of Congress.\n\nEleanor Heald, a wine collector, and eleven other plaintiffs, argued that Michigan's Liquor Control Code violated the DCC by making it a misdemeanor for an out-of-state winery to ship wine directly to a Michigan resident while not prohibiting direct shipping by in-state wineries. The same argument was made in a separate case against the government of the state of New York by Juanita Swedenburg and other owners of out-of-state wineries.\n\nIn these two cases, the state governments of Michigan and New York had argued that Section 2 of the 21st Amendment granted them \"carte blanche\" to regulate liquor. One of their justifications for the laws was that by regulating out-of-state wineries in this way, they might be able to hinder the shipment of alcohol to underage minors; this would serve a valid state purpose.\n\nThe government of New York had won in the federal Second Circuit Court, and the government of Michigan had lost in the Sixth Circuit. The cases were consolidated and heard together by the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nIn a 5–4 decision, the Supreme Court decided the states' laws were unconstitutional. The context of the 21st Amendment, they wrote, was to return to the \"status quo\" that existed before Prohibition, making it clear that the states had the power to regulate alcohol however they wished, including banning alcoholic beverages entirely within the state if desired. Before Prohibition, the states did not have the power to violate the Dormant Commerce Clause, and the 21st Amendment was not intended to grant them this power.\n\nMichigan's liquor control board announced it would recommend to the state government that it ban \"all\" direct wine sales to consumers, joining the 15 other states currently banning all such sales.\n\nNew York governor George Pataki unveiled a bill that would limit each winery's direct sales to consumers to two cases per month per consumer. As a \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial noted, two cases per month is a relatively large amount of wine for a consumer, but the measure was intended to reduce competition for New York alcohol distributors. New York State enacted a bill in 2006 that allows direct shipment of wine to consumers on a reciprocal basis; New York residents can purchase wine shipped from a state that grant New York wineries the same rights.\n\nSince the ruling, many more states have allowed direct shipping from wineries. According to the Wine Institute (a public policy advocacy association of California wineries) 37 states permit at least some form of direct shipping from wineries to consumers (as of July 2010). Different states have enacted different regulations. An editorial article on the commercial wine selling web site \"Appelation America\" says that many of the conditions in these regulations are either so complex or so expensive as to discourage wineries from complying.\n\nIn March 2011, a bill was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives that would explicitly allow states to regulate alcohol products from outside of the state differently from those produced within the state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39673175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39673175", "title": "Harbour Litigation Funding", "text": "Harbour Litigation Funding\n\nHarbour Litigation Funding or 'Harbour' is one of the UK's first litigation funders (see Litigation Funding (UK)) and one of the largest litigation funders in the world, measured by the size of its investment funds. It operates hubs in London and Asia Pacific and has funded litigation in 13 jurisdictions and arbitration under 4 arbitral rules.\n\nLitigation funders pay all or part of the costs of a dispute. If the case is won and monies received, they take a pre-agreed share of the proceeds. If the case is lost, the loss is the funder's - not the claimant's (see Litigation Funding (UK).\n\nHarbour authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, was founded in 2007 by Susan Dunn and Martin Tonnby and is one of the UK’s first litigation funders. The origins of the business date back to 2002.\n\nThe Civil Justice Council established a regulatory body responsible for litigation funding and ensuring compliance with the Code. That body is called the Association of Litigation Funders.\n\nHarbour is a founding member of the Association of Litigation Funders and has both adopted the Code and undertaken to comply with it at all times.\n"}
{"id": "1182482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1182482", "title": "Herbert Wechsler", "text": "Herbert Wechsler\n\nHerbert Wechsler (December 4, 1909 – April 26, 2000) was a legal scholar and former director of the American Law Institute (ALI). He is most widely known for his constitutional law scholarship and for the creation of the Model Penal Code. \"The Journal of Legal Studies\" has identified Wechsler as one of the most cited legal scholars of the 20th century.\n\nWechsler entered City College of New York at 16 and graduated in 1928, with a bachelor's degree in French. He enrolled at Columbia Law School, served as editor-in-chief of the Columbia Law Review at 20, and graduated in 1931. After graduation, he joined the faculty and took a one-year leave to clerk for Justice Harlan F. Stone of the US Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1940, Wechsler went to Washington, DC, to work for the Department of Justice. He argued five cases in front of the US Supreme Court during that period.\n\nDuring World War II, Wechsler served as assistant attorney general in charge of the War Division. \n\nIn 1945 and 1946, he was a principal assistant to US Judge Francis Biddle and US Alternate Judge John J. Parker at the Nuremberg trial, the trial of the principal Nazi war criminals. He then returned to Columbia Law School, where he remained an active professor until 1978, when he took emeritus status.\n\nIn 1959, Wechsler delivered his Holmes lecture at Harvard Law School, \"Toward Neutral Principles of Constitutional Law.\" It was also around this time that Wechsler authored a number of casebooks that changed ideas about criminal law and the federal courts. In 1963, Wechsler's proposed official draft of the Model Penal Code was approved, bringing to a close a decade-long project at the American Law Institute. His wife, Doris Wechsler, noted that he considered the Model Code to be his greatest achievement. Shortly after the approval of the Model Code, Wechsler was named director of the Institute, a position which he held until 1984.\n\nIn 1964, Wechsler argued the seminal case \"New York Times v. Sullivan\" before the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court in that case unanimously held that the First and Fourteenth Amendments barred awards of damages to a public official for defamation relating to his or her official conduct unless the public official proves \"actual malice.\"\n\nDuring Wechsler's tenure as director, the American Law Institute completed the second restatement of the Conflict of Laws, Contracts, Judgments, and Torts as well as the original restatement of Foreign Relations Law of the United States and large parts of the Second Restatement of Property. The Institute also conducted various studies in federal taxation and completed the Federal Securities Code, the Model Land Development Code, the Model Code of Pre-Arraignment Procedure, the Study of the Division of Jurisdiction Between State and Federal Courts, and made major revisions to the Uniform Commercial Code. The ALI's Principles of Corporate Governance and the current Restatement of Foreign Relations Law of the United States were also conceived, initiated, and developed under his direction.\n\nFollowing his retirement as director of the ALI in 1984, Wechsler remained active in the Institute's activities as a member of the council until his death in 2000.\n\nIn 1993, Wechsler became the third recipient of the American Law Institute's Henry J. Friendly Medal for \"outstanding achievement in promoting reform and clarification of the law\" and for the way that his \"outstanding intelligence, integrity, and devotion to the law... enriched the subjects of Constitutional Law, Criminal Law, and Federal Jurisdiction, as well as legal thinking generally.\"\n\nWechsler also received the Association Medal of the New York City Bar Association for exceptional contributions to the honor and standing of the bar in the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "12550219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12550219", "title": "Hill v. Wallace", "text": "Hill v. Wallace\n\nHill v. Wallace, 259 U.S. 44 (1922), was a U.S. Supreme Court decision overturning the legality of the Futures Trading Act of 1921. The law, approved August 24, 1921, by the U.S. Congress attempted to institute Federal regulation of grain futures contract trading by imposing a prohibitive tax on futures contracts traded on any market other than those that met the statute's requirements and were regulated by the Secretary of Agriculture. The court found it was an unconstitutional exercise of the taxing power of Congress. Congress responded to the Court's decision by passing the Grain Futures Act in September 1922 based on the Commerce Clause. The Grain Futures Act was held to be constitutional by the Court in \"Board of Trade of City of Chicago v. Olsen\" (1923)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23229072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23229072", "title": "Impeachment investigations of United States federal judges", "text": "Impeachment investigations of United States federal judges\n\nThere have been numerous attempts to impeach federal judges in the United States; a few have been successful in either forcing resignation or removing the judge. there have been sixty-one federal judges or Supreme Court Justices investigated for impeachment.\n\nOn May 10, 1796, the House received a report from the Attorney General on the conduct of George Turner a judge in the Northwest Territory, which included demands for bribes, and the wanton levy of fines without trial. The report was referred to a select committee for further action.\n\nOn February 16, 1797, Judge Turner requested that a hearing on any potential charges be conducted while he was in town. His request was not granted. Then on February 27, Representative Theophilus Bradbury of Massachusetts submitted the select committee report and a resolution recommending a hearing be held in the Northwest Territory. This resolution was tabled by the House. However Judge Turner resigned just a few months later.\n\nOn February 4, 1803, the House received a report from President Jefferson regarding the conduct of Judge John Pickering of the District of New Hampshire. A select committee was appointed to investigate the matter and submitted its report to the House on February 18. On March 2, the House passed a resolution impeaching Judge Pickering.\n\nOn October 20, the House appointed a select committee to draft articles of impeachment. 13 Annals of Cong. 380 (1803). The select committee submitted four articles of impeachment to the House on December 27, and on December 30, articles were formally adopted.\n\nThe Senate began the impeachment trial against Judge Pickering on January 4, 1804. On March 12, 1804, the Senate convicted Judge Pickering on all four articles and removed him from office.\n\nOn January 5, 1804, a resolution was introduced appointing a select committee to investigate Supreme Court Justice Samuel Chase. The resolution was approved on January 7, 1804. The select committee recommended impeachment in a report submitted to the House on March 6, 1804. Id. at 1093. On March 13, 1804, the report was approved and a select committee was appointed to draft the impeachment articles.\n\nThe House adopted the select committee's eight articles on March 26, 1804, one of which involved Chase's handling of the trial of John Fries. Two more focused on his conduct in the political libel trial of James Callender. Four articles focused on procedural errors made during Chase's adjudication of various matters, and an eighth was directed to his \"intemperate and inflammatory … peculiarly indecent and unbecoming … highly unwarrantable … highly indecent\" remarks while \"charging\" or authorizing a Baltimore grand jury. The Democratic-Republican-controlled United States Senate began the impeachment trial of Chase in early 1805, with Vice President Aaron Burr presiding.\n\nAll the counts involved Chase's work as a trial judge in lower circuit courts. (In that era, Supreme Court justices had the added duty of serving as individuals on circuit courts, a practice that was ended in the late 19th century.) The heart of the allegations was that political bias had led Chase to treat defendants and their counsel in a blatantly unfair manner. Chase's defense lawyers called the prosecution a political effort by his Democratic-Republican enemies. In answer to the articles of impeachment, Chase argued that all of his actions had been motivated by adherence to precedent, judicial duty to restrain advocates from improper statements of law, and considerations of judicial efficiency.\n\nThe Senate voted to acquit Chase of all charges on March 1, 1805, and he returned to his duties on the court. He is the only U.S. Supreme Court justice to have been impeached.\n\nThe acquittal of Chase — by lopsided margins on several of the counts — is believed to have helped ensure that an independent federal judiciary would survive partisan challenge. As Chief Justice William Rehnquist noted in his book, \"Grand Inquests\", some people expressed opinions at the time of Chase's trial that the Senate had absolute latitude in convicting a jurist it found unfit, but the acquittal set an unofficial precedent that judges would not be impeached based on their performance on the bench. All judges impeached since Chase have been accused of outright criminality.\n\nOn January 6, 1804, Judge Peters of the District of Pennsylvania was added, by amendment, to a resolution calling for the investigation of Justice Chase. The resolution was adopted on January 7, 1804.\n\nThe select committee appointed to conduct the investigation submitted its report to the House on March 6, 1804. The select committee report, exonerating Judge Peters of any wrongdoing, was adopted by the House on March 12.\n\nOn March 21, 1808, a resolution to investigate Judge Innis of the District of Kentucky was introduced to the United States House of Representatives. The resolution was tabled. On March 31, 1808, they tried again and it was adopted by the House.\n\nA select committee was appointed to conduct the investigation, and it submitted a report, absolving the Judge of all wrongdoing, to the House on April 19, 1808.\n\nOn April 9, 1808, At the request of the territorial legislature, Mississippi delegate George Poindexter introduced a resolution calling for the appointment of a special committee to prepare articles of impeachment against Presiding Judge Peter Bruin of the Mississippi Territory. The resolution was tabled. On April 18, the resolution was reconsidered and a special committee, chaired by Poindexter, was appointed to investigate the Judge., who was charged with \"neglect of duty and drunkenness on the bench.\" Bruin had either resigned or died during the investigation, which was terminated.\n\nOn December 19, 1811, as a result of an accusatory letter from Judge Harry Toulmin's district (the Washington District of the Mississippi Territory), a resolution was introduced to investigate the judge's conduct. The resolution was tabled. On December 21, 1811, the resolution was withdrawn, and the original accusatory letter of December 16, 1811, was referred to a select committee for further inquiry.\n\nOn January 14, 1812, an attempt to disband the investigating select committee was voted down. The select committee submitted a report absolving Judge Toulmin on May 22, 1812. The report was adopted by the House.\n\nThen on January 2, 1817, another letter was read before the House outlining charges of misconduct against Judge Toulmin. The letter was referred to the Judiciary Committee for further investigation. On February 27, 1817, the Judiciary Committee issued a report finding no evidence to support impeachment. The report was adopted by the House, and the Judiciary Committee was disbanded.\n\nOn April 10, 1818, a resolution was introduced requesting that a special committee be appointed to investigate Judges William P. Van Ness and Matthias B. Tallmadge of the Southern District of New York. The resolution was adopted by the House. Both had been charged with not doing any work. Talmage, claimed that he had so much paperwork left over by his predecessor that he had no time to do anything else, and that his health was so delicate that he needed a long vacation. On February 17, 1819, the special committee submitted a report to the House recommending no action be taken against either Judge.\n\nOn April 10, 1818, a special committee was appointed to investigate William Stephens of the District of Georgia. Judge Stevens resigned during the House investigation, and on November 24, the special committee was disbanded.\n\nOn March 6, 1822, a complaint against Charles Tait of the District of Alabama was received by the House and referred to the Judiciary Committee. A second complaint was presented on December 27. Mr. Moore then proposed a resolution referring the complaint to the Judiciary Committee for further action. Id. at 465. The resolution was adopted. Id. at 468. On January 28, 1823, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report exonerating Judge Tait. No action was taken before the end of the Congressional Session.\n\nOn January 26, 1824, the House received another complaint against Judge Tait. This complaint was tabled.\n\nOn February 3, 1825, Richard K. Call, Delegate from Florida introduced a resolution calling for the Judiciary Committee to investigate Judge Joseph L. Smith of the Florida Territory's Supreme Court on the charge that he took bribes and kickbacks. The resolution was adopted. The investigation went on for years, with the last reference to it being in 1830.\n\nCircuit Court Judge John Ness sent a memorial to Congress complaining of D.C. Circuit Court Judge Buckner Thruston's official conduct. The memorial was referred to the Judiciary Committee for investigation. On February 28, 1825, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report to the House. The report recommended no action be taken against the Judge.\n\nOn January 30, 1837, William Brent and Richard Coxe sent a memorial to Congress requesting an investigation of Judge Thruston, who was reputed to be a nasty individual and bad judge. The memorial was referred to the Judiciary Committee. On March 3, 1837, the Judiciary Committee submitted its final report to the House. The report contained witness testimony, but no recommendation for or against impeachment.\n\nNo other record regarding the disposition of this report has been found in primary or secondary sources. Presumably, no action was taken before the end of the congressional session.\n\nMartha Bradstreet sent a petition to Congress requesting an investigation of Judge Conkling. The petition was referred to the Judiciary Committee to conduct the investigation. On April 3, 1830, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report to the House. The report recommended no action be taken against Judge Conkling.\n\nA second set of complaints from citizens of New York was submitted to Congress and referred to the Judiciary Committee for investigation. On March 3, 1841, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report to the House. The report recommended no action be taken against Judge Conkling.\n\nOn August 8, 1848, a third memorial requesting an investigation was sent to Congress by Anson Little. The memorial was presented to the House on January 3, 1849, and referred to the Judiciary Committee for further investigation. On February 13, 1849, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report to the House, The report recommended a full investigation of Judge Conkling, who among other things had presided over a lawsuit he had instigated against another party, be conducted by the next Congress. No action was taken by the next Congress.\n\nOn March 23, 1830, Mr. Buchanon presented a report from the Judiciary Committee recommending that Judge Peck be impeached. On April 21, 1830, debate on the Judiciary Committee report began in the House. Id. at 810. An impeachment resolution was adopted on April 24, 1830.\n\nOn April 24, 1830, a select committee was formed to draft the articles of impeachment Five days later, the select committee submitted impeachment articles to the House. On May 1, 1830, the House voted to adopt the articles as presented. That same day, five managers were appointed to prosecute the impeachment before the Senate.\n\nOn December 13, 1830, the Senate began the impeachment trial. The trial continued through January 31, 1831, when the Senate voted to acquit Judge Peck.\n\nWilliam Cummins sent a memorial to Congress requesting an investigation of Judge Johnson. The memorial was referred to the Judiciary Committee for further action. On February 8, 1833, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report to the House: The report found no evidence to support impeachment. The Judiciary Committee also concluded that a territorial judge was not a civil officer subject to impeachment. The Judiciary Committee then recommended no further action be taken against Judge Johnson.\n\nOn January 8, 1839, the House received a petition from Duncan Hennan requesting an investigation of Judge Lawrence. The petition was referred to a select committee for further action. On February 11, the select committee submitted its report, The report recommended Judge Lawrence be impeached. No action was taken, and the Judge remained on the bench until he died in 1841.\n\nJustices John McLean and Robert C. Grier of the U.S. Supreme Court voted against the Dredd Scott decision, and some Southern congressmen prompted an investigation because of it.\n\nOn Feb. 13, 1851, a memorial requesting an investigation of Judge Watrous was presented to Congress. The memorial, which accused the judge of appearing before himself in court among other things, was referred to the Judiciary Committee. On March 3, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report to the House, which recommended the Judiciary Committee be discharged from further consideration because insufficient time remained in the Congressional Session to complete the investigation.\n\nA second memorial containing charges against Judge Watrous was sent to the House and referred to the Judiciary Committee. On February 28, 1853, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report to the House. The report recommended against impeaching the Judge, but it didn't happen.\n\nAnother investigation of Judge Watrous was conducted in the 34th Congress. On February 9, 1857, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report recommending Judge Watrous be impeached. However, no further action was taken until January 15, 1858, when a resolution was introduced allowing the Judiciary Committee to further investigate the matter by calling witnesses. The resolution was adopted by the House.\n\nOn December 9, 1858, the Judiciary Committee submitted two reports to the House. The majority report recommended Judge Watrous be impeached. The minority, however, found insufficient evidence to warrant impeachment. On December 15, 1858, by a vote off 111 to 97 refused to impeach, finding insufficient evidence to justify the action. This was one of the very few times that the Full House has refused to impeach a Judge after the House Judiciary Committee has recommended a trial in the Senate.\n\nThey tried again in 1860, and again the House Judiciary Committee voted out articles of impeachment. However, Texas had seceded from the Union by this time and the House never got around to it by the time it expired on March 4, 1861.\n\nDuring the 35th Congress, 2nd Session, the Judiciary Committee conducted an investigation of Judge Irwin. On January 13, 1859, a resolution authorizing witnesses to be called was adopted by the House. On January 28, the Judiciary Committee informed the House that Judge Irwin had resigned, and the House voted to discharge the Judiciary Committee from further investigation.\n\nOn March 4, 1862, Rep. Bingham introduced a report from the Judiciary Committee recommending impeachment of Judge Humphreys, who was working for the Confederacy. The report was recommitted to the Judiciary Committee. On May 6, 1862, the report was resubmitted to the House. This time the House adopted the committee report and impeached the Judge.\n\nOn May 14, 1862, the House appointed a select committee to draft the articles of impeachment, and on May 19 the articles were adopted. The Senate began the impeachment trial on June 26, 1862, and later that day voted to convict and remove Judge Humphreys from office.\n\nOn February 28, 1873, Benjamin F. Butler of Massachusetts introduced a resolution to impeach Judge Delahay, citing his \"improper personal habits.\" The resolution was immediately adopted by the House. On March 3, 1873, the Senate announced it was ready to receive the articles of impeachment. The special committee appointed to present the impeachment charges against the Judge then reported to the Senate and announced specific articles of impeachment would follow. The Judge apparently resigned after the House began impeachment proceedings, as evidenced by President Grant appointing another judge to his post on March 10, 1874.\n\nOn February 22, 1873, Rep. Roberts introduced a resolution to investigate Judge Sherman. The resolution was adopted and referred to the Judiciary Committee. and on March 3, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report recommending further investigation of him in the next Congress, and asking to be discharged from further consideration of the matter. Rep. Potter attempted to persuade the House to consider an impeachment resolution instead of the committee report, but his attempt failed.\n\nOn December 15, 1873, Mr. E. R. Hoar introduced a resolution to investigate Judge Busteed's conduct. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee. 1 On December 17, 1873, the House passed a resolution granting subpoena power to the Judiciary Committee. On June 20, 1874, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report and resolutions for impeachment to the House. No action was taken before the end of the congressional session.\n\nOn January 7, 1875, sometime after Judge Busteed's resignation, the House Judiciary Committee introduced a resolution calling for the Judge's impeachment. The resolution did not pass.\n\nOn December 17, 1873, Mr. Wilson introduced a resolution to investigate Judge Durell. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee.\n\nOn January 7, 1875, following Judge Durell's resignation, Mr. Wilson made a motion to table the resolution and relieve the Judiciary Committee of its investigation. His motion carried.\n\nOn February 26, 1874, Rep. James G. Blaine introduced charges against Judge Story. These charges were referred to the Judiciary Committee, prompting Judge Story to resign; the case was never heard of again.\n\nOn January 7, 1879, Rep. Harrison offered a resolution to investigate Judge Blodgett.). The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee.\n\nOn March 3, 1879, the Judiciary Committee reported back to the House, recommending no impeachment proceedings against Judge Blodgett. A resolution to table actions against the Judge was introduced and adopted by the House.\n\nSamuel Axtell was alleged to be the most corrupt politician in the Old West, appointed in 1882. Chief Judge Axtell resigned in May 1885.\n\nOn April 1, 1890, Rep. William C. Oates of Alabama introduced a resolution to impeach Judge Boarman was sent to the Judiciary Committee. No primary record of this resolution could be found. However, on February 17, 1891, the Judiciary Committee referred to this initial resolution when it introduced an impeachment resolution against the Judge. The House printed and recommitted the resolution to the Judiciary Committee.\n\nTwo days later, the Judiciary Committee reintroduced a resolution to impeach Judge Boarman. The House agreed to consider the resolution on February 20 at 2:00 p.m. No such action was taken. So, on the 28th, the resolution was again called up for consideration. The vote on the resolution was postponed until the evening session of the House. Again, the intended action did not occur.\n\nOn January 30, 1892, the old impeachment resolution was tabled and a new resolution calling for further investigation of Judge Boarman was adopted and referred to the Judiciary Committee. The Judiciary Committee reported back to the House on June 1. A resolution was passed discharging the Judiciary Committee from further action against the Judge, and the committee report and accompanying evidence was tabled.\n\nOn February 5, 1894, Mr. McGann introduced a resolution to investigate Judge Jenkins. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee. 26 Cong. Rec. 1922 (1894). On March 2, 1894, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report recommending an investigation of the Judge. Id. at 2533-34. On March 6, 1894, Mr. Boatner introduced a resolution to adopt the committee report and to begin the investigation. The resolution was adopted by the House. Id. at 2629.\n\nOn June 8, 1894, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report of the investigation to the House. The report was referred to the House Calendar. Id. at 5994\n\nNo other record regarding the disposition of this report has been found in primary or secondary sources. Presumably, no action was taken before the end of the congressional session.\n\nThe Central Labor Union of Cleveland, Ohio, sent a memorial to Congress charging Judge Ricks with professional misconduct. The memorial was referred to the Judiciary Committee for a preliminary investigation of the charges. On August 8, 1894, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report recommending a full investigation of Judge Ricks be conducted.\n\nNo other record regarding the disposition of this report has been found in primary or secondary sources. Presumably, no action was taken before the end of the congressional session.\n\nOn January 7, 1895, Mr. Johnson offered a resolution calling for an investigation into charges against Judge Ricks. The resolution was adopted and referred to the Judiciary Committee. The Judiciary Committee recommended impeachment and reported its findings to the House on January 25, 1895. The committee report was referred to the House calendar and ordered printed.\n\nThese were in the files of the House Judiciary Committee:\n\nOn December 10, 1903, Mr. Lamar presented a memorial from the Florida legislature requesting an investigation of Judge Swayne.). The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee.\n\nSwayne was impeached by the House of Representatives on December 13, 1904. He was accused of filing false travel vouchers, improper use of private railroad cars, unlawfully imprisoning two attorneys for contempt, and living outside of his district. Swayne's trial consumed two-and-a-half months before it ended on February 27, 1905, when the Senate voted acquittal on each of the twelve articles. There was little doubt that Swayne was guilty of some of the offenses charged against him. Indeed, his counsel admitted as much, though calling the lapses \"inadvertent.\" The Senate, however, refused to convict Swayne because its members did not believe his peccadilloes amounted to \"high crimes and misdemeanors\". Swayne thereafter continued serving on the court until his death, in 1907.\n\nIt was during the long Swayne trial that the suggestion first surfaced that a Senate committee, rather than the Senate as a whole, should receive impeachment evidence. Senator George F. Hoar of Massachusetts proposed that the presiding officer should appoint such a committee. While Hoar's proposal would eventually be embodied in Rule XI of the Senate's impeachment rules, in 1905 the resolution was referred to the Rules Committee, which took no action.\n\nIn 1906, the U.S. Congress established a special court for the \"district of China\", based in the Shanghai International Settlement which had vice-regal powers of arrest and imprisonment. With only one judge, the former Attorney General of the Philippines, and no obligation to follow the strictures of the constitution or local law, there were many complaints by American expatriates, especially one by Lorrin A. Thurston, former Attorney General of the Territory of Hawaii, who charged that Judge Wilfley had voided a will by a person leaving some of his money to the Catholic Church because of his prejudice against it.\n\nOn February 20, 1908, Representative George E. Waldo introduced articles of impeachment against Wilfley and the resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee. Leaving the court in chaos, Wilfley traveled halfway around the world to attend the hearings in Washington, D.C.\n\nOn May 8, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report, H.R. Rep. No. 60-1626, to the House recommending against impeachment, but by the time Wilfley got back to Shanghai, the situation was so poisoned, he resigned and returned to the U.S. for good.\n\nOn June 7, 1912, Mr. Berger introduced a resolution to investigate Judge Hanford. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee. Hanford resigned, and the investigation ceased.\n\nOn 13 July 1912, Judge Archibald was impeached by the House of Representatives on 13 Articles by a vote of 223 to 1. Articles I, II, III and VI alleged that Archbald had entered into agreements with litigants at a substantial benefit to himself. Article IV alleged a wrongful communication with litigants. Articles V, VII, VIII, IX and X alleged that he had improperly solicited and accepted gifts from litigants. Article XI alleged he had improperly solicited and accepted gifts from attorneys. Article XII alleged he allowed corrupt practices during jury selection. Article XIII alleged a general charge of bringing the Judiciary into disrepute. The offences alleged in Articles I through XI were connected with holidays in Europe and other gifts received from coal mine workers and railroad officials.\n\nOn 16 July, the United States Senate began Archbald's trial. The Senate convicted him of five of the thirteen Articles on 13 January 1913. The Senate then voted to remove him from office and disqualify him from further office by a vote of 39 to 35.\n\nThe exact division on each Article is as follows:\n\nArchbald was convicted on Articles I, III, IV, V and XIII and was accordingly removed from office. Article II gained a majority of votes, but not the two thirds necessary under the U.S. Constitution for conviction.\n\nOn August 26, 1913, Rep. Clayton offered a resolution, H.R. Res. 234, to investigate Judge Speer. The resolution was referred to the Rules Committee. Id. at 3795. However, following an objection from the floor, the resolution was held over for consideration until August 27, 1913, at which time it was amended and adopted\n\nA Select Subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee conducted the investigation. On October 2, 1914, after reviewing the Subcommittee's findings, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report, to the House. The report was referred to the House Calendar. The report, which recommended no further action be taken against Judge Speer, was considered and agreed to by the House on October 21.\n\nOn March 21, 1914, Mr. Park introduced an impeachment resolution, H.R. Res. 446, against Judge Wright. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee. On April 10, 1914, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report, to the House. The report recommended further investigation and authorized the Judiciary Committee to use Subcommittees as needed. The report was adopted and referred to the Judiciary Committee for further action.\n\nOn March 3, 1915, the House agreed with the Judiciary Committee's final report recommending no further action, and discharged the Judiciary Committee from any further investigation of Judge Wright.\n\nOn May 11, 1914, Mr. Neely introduced a resolution, H.R. Res. 512, calling for the investigation of Judge Dayton. The resolution was sent to the Rules Committee. On June 12, 1914, after no further action was taken, Mr. Neely introduced a second resolution, H.R. Res. 541, to investigate impeachment charges against the Judge. This resolution was also sent to the Judiciary Committee.\n\nOn February 9, 1915, the report, of a Select Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee was considered by the House. The House followed the report's recommendation and adopted a resolution authorizing the Judiciary Committee to investigate the Judge. The Judiciary Committee then submitted its report, to the House on March 3, 1915. The report, recommending no further action against Judge Dayton, was adopted.\n\nIn 1920 Judge Landis left the bench to become Commissioner of Baseball, but neglected to resign and continued to receive his salary, which offended many people.\n\nOn February 2, 1921, Mr. Welty introduced a resolution, H.R. Res. 665, to investigate the conduct of Judge Landis. The resolution was referred to the Rules Committee. On February 14, 1921, Mr. Welty introduced actual impeachment charges against Judge Landis. These charges were referred to the House Judiciary Committee for investigation.\n\nOn March 2, 1921, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report, to the House, and it was referred to the House Calendar. The report recommended a complete investigation be undertaken by the 67th Congress.No action was taken before the end of the Congressional Session. However, on October 17, 1921, Judge Landis was condemned for his actions in a letter from the American Bar Association. This condemnation letter was referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee.\n\nOn May 22, 1924, a resolution, H.R. Res. 325, to investigate Judge Baker was introduced. Some time earlier the Judiciary Committee had received information concerning misconduct by Judge Baker, and appointed a Subcommittee to review the material. After this review, the Subcommittee recommended a full-scale investigation. The resolution was adopted by the House and referred to the Judiciary Committee for further action.\n\nA Select Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee was given charge of the investigation. (There is record of the Select Subcommittee obtaining funding for a stenographer on June 7, 1924.) The final Judiciary Committee report, recommended against impeaching Judge Baker. The report by Mr. Dwyer was referred to the House Calendar on February 10, 1925. No action was taken before the end of the congressional session.\n\nOn January 13, 1925, Mr. Hawes introduced a resolution, H.R. Res. 402, requesting the Judiciary Committee conduct an investigation of Judge English. The resolution was referred to the Rules Committee. Then on February 3, 1925, Mr. Snell made a motion to refer House Resolution 402 from the Rules Committee to the Judiciary Committee. The motion carried.\n\nOn February 10, 1925, Mr. Graham introduced a joint resolution, H.R.J. Res. 347, calling for an investigation of Judge English. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee. The resolution was signed by the President on March 4, 1925. A special committee, consisting of members of the House Judiciary Committee, was then appointed to conduct the investigation. On December 19, 1925, the special committee submitted its report. The report was subsequently referred to the Judiciary Committee, which continued the investigation. Judge English testified before the Judiciary Committee on January 12, 1926.\n\nOn March 25, 1926, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report, H.R. Rep. No. 69-653, and articles of impeachment against Judge English. The next day a minority report was printed in the record. On March 30, 1926, the House began debate on the articles of impeachment. On April 1, 1926, the articles were adopted.\n\nThe Senate considered the articles of impeachment on April 23, 1926, and the impeachment trial began with Judge English's answer to the articles on May 3, 1926. House managers then requested time to prepare a response to Judge English. On March 5, 1926, the Senate set November 10 as the date for the trial to resume.\n\nOn December 11, 1926, the House took note of Judge English's resignation and requested the Senate drop the impeachment proceedings. The Senate accepted the House recommendation and ended the proceedings on December 13, 1926\n\nJohn T. Rogers of \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" won the 1927 Pulitzer Prize for Reporting with his coverage of the inquiry leading to English's impeachment.\n\nOn January 28, 1927, Congressman Fiorello H. La Guardia brought impeachment charges against Judge Cooper. The charges were referred to the Judiciary Committee for investigation. On March 2, 1927, the Judiciary Committee submitted its report, H.R. Rep. No. 69-2299, recommending no impeachment action be taken against the Judge. This report was referred to the House Calendar, and the next day a resolution, H.R. Res. 450, adopting the committee report, was passed by the House.\n\nOn March 4, 1929, a joint resolution, H.R.J. Res. 431, calling for the investigation of Judge Moscowitz was signed by the President. 70 Cong. Rec. 5227 (1929). The resolution created a Select Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee to conduct the investigation. Id. at 4839. Following this investigation, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report, H.R. Rep. No. 70-1106, to the House criticizing Judge Moscowitz, but refused to recommend impeachment. No action was taken before the end of the congressional session.\n\nOn April 15, 1929, Congressman Fiorello H. La Guardia introduced a resolution, H.R. Res. 12, to investigate Judge Winslow. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee. On December 20, 1929, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report, H.R. Rep. No. 71–84, recommending the investigation cease due to Judge Winslow's resignation. A resolution, H.R. Res. 110, adopting the committee's report was passed by the House.\n\nOn March 12, 1930, La Guardia introduced a resolution, H.R. Res. 184, requesting that the Attorney General send the Judiciary Committee any available information on Judge Anderson's conduct. The resolution was sent to the Judiciary Committee.\n\nOn June 2, 1930, a resolution from the Judiciary Committee, H.R. Res. 191, was introduced. The resolution called for a special committee, consisting of five members of the House Judiciary Committee, to be appointed to inquire into Judge Anderson's conduct. The resolution was referred to the \"Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union\" and agreed to by the House on June 13, 1930.\n\nOn February 18, 1931, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report, H.R. Rep. No. 71-2714, of their findings, and introduced a resolution, H.R. Res. 362, stating insufficient grounds existed for impeachment. The resolution was adopted.\n\nOn May 26, 1932, Congressman Fiorello H. La Guardia introduced a resolution, H.R. Res. 239, requesting a special committee be appointed to investigate Judge Louderback. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee for further action. On May 31, 1932, the Judiciary Committee reported the resolution back to the House without amendment. Id. at 11,700. The resolution was adopted on June 9, 1932.\n\nA special committee was appointed to conduct the investigation and report its findings to the Judiciary Committee. On February 17, 1933, the Judiciary Committee submitted a report, H.R. Rep. No. 72-2065, and a resolution, H.R. Res. 387, requesting the report be adopted. The report found insufficient evidence to warrant impeachment.\n\nOn February 24, 1933, when the Judiciary Committee report came up for consideration, Mr. LaGuardia introduced the minority report which recommended Judge Louderback be impeached and included five articles of impeachment. With two conflicting reports to consider, a debate arose in the House between those supporting the majority report?s recommendation not to impeach, and those supporting the five articles of impeachment presented in the minority report. When the debate was over, the House agreed to adopt the minority report and its articles of impeachment.\n\nThe Senate began its impeachment proceedings with Judge Louderback's answer on April 11, 1933. The actual impeachment trial started on May 15, 1933. On May 24, 1933, the Senate acquitted Judge Louderback on all charges.\n\nOn April 26, 1933, Mr. Smith introduced a resolution, H.R. Res. 120, authorizing the Judiciary Committee to investigate Judge Lowell. The resolution was adopted. On November 30, 1933, during the investigation, Judge Lowell died.\n\nOn June 12, 1933, Mr. Cellers introduced a resolution, H.R. Res. 145, to investigate the \"matter of appointments, conduct, proceedings, and acts of receivers, trustees, and referees in bankruptcy.\" The resolution was referred to the Rules Committee for further action. Some judges were implicated in the investigation, and their impeachment discussed, but were later exonerated.\n\nOn January 22, 1934, Mr. Shoemaker introduced a resolution, H.R. Res. 233, authorizing the Judiciary Committee to investigate Judge Molyneaux. The resolution was adopted and referred to the Judiciary Committee.\n\nWhen no action was taken, Mr. Shoemaker introduced another resolution on April 20, 1934. This resolution contained impeachment charges against Judge Molyneaux, and was also referred to the Judiciary Committee. Presumably, they died in committee.\n\nOn May 7, 1935, Rep. Everett Dirksen offered a resolution, H.R. Res. 214, to investigate impeachment charges against Judge Alschuler. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee. A week later, the House adopted a resolution, H.R. Res. 220, granting the Judiciary Committee authority to hold hearings. Presumably, it died in committee.\n\nOn May 29, 1933, Congressman J. Mark Wilcox of Florida introduced resolution (H. Res. 163) authorizing the House Judiciary Committee to investigate Ritter's conduct to \"determine whether in the opinion of the committee he had been guilty of any high crime or misdemeanor.\" The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee.\n\nOn March 2, 1936, the House of Representatives voted to impeach Judge Ritter by 181 votes to 146 on seven articles of impeachment. The proceedings were only the 13th impeachment case in the 147 years of Congress, although it took place just a month after the impeachment of Harold Louderback (who was acquitted in the Senate). The seven articles were:\n\n\nRitter's chief defense attorney was Frank P. Walsh. Three House managers prosecuted the case, with Sam Hobbs of Alabama leading.\n\nOn April 6, 1936, the U.S. Senate began its trial. Eleven days after the trial began, the Senate voted to acquit him of all but the last article (bringing the judiciary into disrepute), which he was convicted of 56–28, exactly the two-thirds necessary for conviction under the Constitution, and Ritter was removed from office on April 17, 1936. A motion to disqualify Ritter from all further federal office was defeated unanimously by the Senate.\n\nRitter challenged the conviction in the federal Court of Claims on the grounds that the Senate could not convict him on a general charge of bringing the judiciary into disrepute if it was not able to convict him of a specific offense. The Court of Claims dismissed the case and held it did not have jurisdiction because the Senate was given the \"sole power\" to try impeachments under Clause 6, Section 3 of Article I of the United States Constitution.\n\nOn February 15, 1945, a resolution, H.R. Res. 138, authorizing the Judiciary Committee to investigate impeachment charges against Judge Johnson (and Judge Watson, see below) was adopted by the House.\n\nThe investigation of Judge Johnson was conducted at both the committee and subcommittee level. (Referenced in a speech by Richard Russell) .). On July 3, 1945, during the Judiciary Committee investigation, Judge Johnson resigned. On July 14, he was called to testify before the Judiciary Committee. Following a poor performance by the Judge during cross examination, the Judge relinquished his retirement salary and withdrew as a witness, thereby mooting the entire process. The report of the House Judiciary Committee the following year stated that had Johnson not resigned, he would have definitely been impeached.\n\nThe House Judiciary Committee voted to end the impeachment investigation against Judge Watson on September 20, 1945, and he went on to serve until his death in the 1950s.\n\nThere were two attempts to remove Douglas from office; both of them failed.\n\nOn June 17, 1953, infuriated by Douglas' brief stay of execution of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg Rep. Wheeler introduced a resolution, H.R. Res. 290, impeaching Justice Douglas. It was referred to the Judiciary Committee to investigate the charges. The next day, the Judiciary Committee appointed a Special Subcommittee to conduct the investigation. There was a hearing, and on July 7, the committee voted to end the investigation. and no further action was taken.\n\nJustice Douglas was fully committed to his causes. But because of difficult financial circumstances, he was also forced to maintain a busy speaking and publishing schedule to supplement his income. Never a wealthy man, Douglas became severely burdened financially due to a bitter divorce and settlement with his first wife. He only sank deeper into financial difficulties as settlements with his second and third wives essentially consumed his entire salary as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court.\n\nDouglas's steps to supplement his income as a result of his financial situation also included the unusual move of becoming president of the Parvin Foundation. While his efforts on behalf of the Parvin Foundation were legitimate, his ties with the foundation (which was financed by the sale of the infamous Flamingo Hotel by casino financier and foundation founder Albert Parvin), became a prime target for then-House Minority Leader Gerald R. Ford. Besides being personally disgusted by Douglas's allegedly illicit lifestyle, Representative Ford was also mindful that Douglas protégé Abe Fortas was forced to resign because of ties to a foundation similar to Parvin. Fortas would later say that he \"resigned to save Douglas,\" thinking that the dual investigations into them would stop with his resignation.\n\nSome scholars, have argued that Ford's impeachment attempt was politically motivated. Those who support this contention note Ford's well-known disappointment with the Senate over the failed nominations of Clement Haynsworth and G. Harrold Carswell to succeed Fortas. Thus, in April 1970, Congressman Ford moved to impeach Douglas in an attempt to hit back at the Senate.\n\nOn April 15, 1970, at the instigation of Rep. Gerald Ford, Rep. Jacobs began a second attempt to impeach Justice Douglas. His resolution to impeach the Justice, H.R. Res. 920, was referred to the Judiciary Committee for investigation. The next day seven resolutions, H.R. Res. 922, 923, 924, 925, 926, 927, and 928, requesting an investigation of Justice Douglas were introduced on the floor of the House. All of the resolutions sought the creation of a select committee to conduct the investigation, and all were referred to the Rules Committee for further action. On April 20, 1970, Mr. Wyman introduced resolution, H.R. Res. 936, to investigate Justice Douglas. This resolution was referred to the Rules Committee. On April 28, 1970, Mr. Gooding introduced resolution to investigate Justice Douglas. This resolution was also sent to the Rules Committee.\n\nOn April 21, 1970, a Special Subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee was appointed to conduct an investigation under House Resolution 920. It issued a progress report on June 20, 1970.\n\nDespite careful maneuvering by House Judiciary Chairman Emanuel Celler, and an apparent lack of proof of any criminal conduct on the part of Douglas (efforts by Attorney General John N. Mitchell and the Nixon administration to gather evidence to the contrary notwithstanding), Congressman Ford moved forward in the first major attempt to impeach a Supreme Court Justice in the modern era.\n\nThe hearings began in late April 1970. Congressman Ford was the main witness, and attacked Douglas's \"liberal opinions\", his \"defense of the 'filthy' film \"I Am Curious (Yellow)\", and his ties with the aforementioned Parvin. Additionally, Douglas was criticized for accepting $350 for an article he wrote on folk music in the magazine \"Avant Garde\". The magazine's publisher had served a prison sentence for the distribution of another magazine in 1966 that had been deemed pornographic. Describing Douglas' article, Ford stated, \"The article itself is not pornographic, although it praises the lusty, lurid, and risqué along with the social protest of left-wing folk singers\". Ford also attacked Douglas for his article in \"Evergreen\" Magazine, which was infamous for its proclivity for pictures of naked women. The Republican congressmen, however, refused to give the majority Democrats copies of the magazines, prompting Congressman Wayne Hays to remark \"Has anybody read the article — or is everybody over there who has a magazine just looking at the pictures?\"\n\nWhen it became clear that the impeachment proceedings would be unsuccessful, they were brought to a close, and no public vote on the matter was taken.\n\nThe final report of the Special Subcommittee found no cause for impeachment and recommended no further action be taken. Mr. Wyman criticized this report on December 17, 1970. On December 21, 1970, Mr. Dennis, a member of the Judiciary Committee, criticized his Committee for refusing to even bring the Subcommittee report to a vote.\n\nThe effort to impeach Douglas and the struggles over the Fortas, Haynesworth, and Carswell nominations marked the beginning of a more partisan climate during the confirmation process of Supreme Court nominees.\n\nLuther Bohanon of the Eastern, Northern, and Western Districts of Oklahoma; Stephen Chandler of the Western District of Oklahoma; and Alfred P. Murrah of the 10th Circuit (which sits in Oklahoma) had been feuding so much that it was becoming a national scandal, and thus, many people in Oklahoma demanded their impeachment to put a halt to it.\n\nThus, on February 21, 1966, Congressman Harold R. Gross requested an investigation of these three Oklahoma judges. A resolution to investigate, H.R. Res. 739, was adopted the next day and sent to the House Judiciary Committee which formed an \"Ad Hoc Special Subcommittee on Judicial Behavior\" for further action. The investigation, which lasted until 1968, found that the so-called Chandler Mess was reprehensible, but not criminal.\n\nFortas had accepted a $20,000 retainer from the family foundation of Wall Street financier Louis Wolfson, a friend and former client, in January 1966. Fortas signed a contract with Wolfson's foundation; in return for unspecified advice, it was to pay Fortas $20,000 a year for the rest of Fortas's life (and then pay his widow for the rest of her life). Wolfson was under investigation for securities violations at the time and it is alleged that he expected that his arrangement with Fortas would help him stave off criminal charges or help him secure a presidential pardon; he did ask Fortas to help him secure a pardon from LBJ, which Fortas claimed that he did not do. Fortas recused himself from Wolfson's case when it came before the Court and had returned the retainer, but not until Wolfson had been indicted twice. Although Fortas denied that he ever helped Wolfson, there is good reason to doubt that claim. In 1970, after Fortas had resigned from the Court, Louis Wolfson surreptitiously taped a private telephone call with Fortas. The transcript of this call was (ostensibly) inadvertently disclosed by Wolfson's lawyer, Bud Fensterwald, to Washington Post reporter Bob Woodward in 1977. The Washington Post subsequently published several excerpts from the transcript, including language suggesting that Fortas might have indeed spoken with LBJ about a pardon for Wolfson, but there is no evidence that this intervention was a quid pro quo rather than a voluntary intervention for a friend. Wolfson was convicted of violating federal securities laws later that year and spent time in prison.\n\nThe new Richard Nixon administration became aware of the Wolfson deal when a \"Life\" reporter began investigating the story; FBI director J. Edgar Hoover also mentioned a \"tax dodge\" Fortas had entered into with other judges, and Nixon concluded Fortas should be \"off of there.\" When Chief Justice Earl Warren was informed of the incident by the new Attorney General John N. Mitchell, he persuaded Fortas to resign to protect the reputation of the Court and avoid lengthy impeachment proceedings, which were in their preliminary stages; Fortas' judicial reputation was also affected by the previous Johnson consultation and American University scandals. Justice Hugo Black also urged Fortas to resign, but when Fortas said it would \"kill\" his wife, Black changed his mind and urged Fortas not to resign. Soon after impeachment proceedings formally began with a resolution introduced by Rep. H. R. Gross (R-Iowa), Fortas decided resignation would be best for him and for his wife's legal career, and told his colleagues. He resigned from the Court on May 15, 1969. William J. Brennan, Jr. later said, \"We were just stunned.\" Fortas later said he \"resigned to save Douglas,\" another justice who was being investigated for a similar scandal at the same time.\n\nKerner had been convicted of bribery, and with all his appeals exhausted, he resigned in July 1974 after being told that the House Judiciary committee would vote to impeach him immediately after they were done with proceedings against President Richard Nixon.\n\nOn January 24, 1978, Rep. John M. Ashbrook introduced an impeachment resolution, H.R. Res. 966, against Judge Battisti. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee., where given the judge's sterling record, it died in committee. However, he tried again on January 5, 1981 with H.RES.12, where it met the same result.\n\nOn Feb 19, 1981, Rep. Lawrence P. McDonald introduced an impeachment resolution, H.R. Res. 61. against Judge Scott, over the issue of court mandated bussing. The bill was referred to the House Judiciary committee, where it died.\n\nOn June 24, 1981, Rep. Ron Paul introduced an impeachment resolution, H.R. Res. 168, against Judge Justice.\n\nAtkins v. U.S., 214 Ct. Cl. 186, 556 F.2d 1028 (Ct. Cl. 1977), was an unsuccessful attempt to force the Government to address the destructive effect of inflation on the judiciary during the period 1969–1975, when the value of the dollar, measured by the Consumer Price Index, decreased by 34%, and Congress failed to provide increases to protect judges' purchasing power.\n\nOn March 2, 1976, Rep. Andrew Jacobs, Jr. introduced an impeachment resolution against Atkins and 139 other federal judges involved in the above-mentioned dispute. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee. and nothing was done. Mr. Jacobs introduced a second impeachment resolution against the same judges in a little more than a month The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee, where it too, died.\n\nThe Judicial Councils Reform and Judicial Conduct and Disability Act of 1980 empowered the Judicial Conference of the United States to investigate and police the judiciary and, if need be, request that the House of Representatives impeach federal judges. Judicial councils are established in each circuit and investigate complaints and may certify the disability of judges or refer complaints to the Judicial Conference. Most judicial impeachments since then have been based on these requests.\n\nClaiborne was indicted by a federal grand jury for bribery, fraud, and tax evasion in December 1983. In April 1984, however, the jury deadlocked and a mistrial was declared. He was tried again in July on only the evasion charges and was found guilty the next month, making him the first federal judge ever convicted of crimes while on the bench. Claiborne was sentenced to two years in prison in October, and was in prison from May 1986 to October 1987.\n\nThis was an unacceptable state of affairs, and on June 3, 1986, Rep. Peter W. Rodino (D-NJ) offered an impeachment resolution, H.R. Res. 461, against him. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner introduced a second one H.R. Res. 487, against Judge Claiborne on June 24, which was also sent to the Judiciary Committee.\n\nThe Judiciary Committee appointed its Subcommittee on Courts, Civil Liberties, and the Administration of Justice to assist with the investigation, and after a quick hearing, the Judiciary Committee reported its findings to the House on July 16 and on the 22nd, the committee report was debated in the House. The report included four articles of impeachment against Judge Claiborne. On July 22, Claiborne was formally impeached by the House, becoming the first person to be granted that \"honor\" in over 30 years.\n\nThe trial in the senate was held before a special committee, except for the closing arguments, which were held before the full Senate.\n\nOn October 9, 1986, the Senate concluded its trial and Judge Claiborne was convicted on all articles except Article III. The exact division on each Article is as follows:\n\nIn 1981, Judge Hastings was charged with accepting a $150,000 bribe in exchange for a lenient sentence and a return of seized assets for 21 counts of racketeering by Frank and Thomas Romano, and of perjury in his testimony about the case. He was acquitted by a jury after his alleged co-conspirator, William Borders, refused to testify in court (resulting in a jail sentence for Borders).\n\nOn March 23, 1987, Rep Jim Sensenbrenner introduced an impeachment resolution, H.R. Res. 128, against Judge Hastings. The resolution was referred to the Judiciary Committee. On March 31, 1987, the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Criminal Justice met in executive session to discuss Judge Hastings' impeachment inquiry.\n\nIn the summer of 1988, the full House of Representatives took up the case, and Hastings was impeached for bribery and perjury by a vote of 413–3. He was then convicted in 1989 by the United States Senate, becoming the sixth federal judge in the history of the United States to be removed from office by the Senate. The vote on the first article was 69 for and 26 opposed, providing five votes more than the two-thirds of those present that were needed to convict. The first article accused the judge of conspiracy. Conviction on any single article was enough to remove the judge from office. The Senate vote cut across party lines, with U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, voting to convict his fellow party member, and U.S. Senator Arlen Specter voting to acquit.\n\nThe Senate had the option to forbid Hastings from ever seeking federal office again, but did not do so. Alleged co-conspirator, attorney William Borders went to jail again for refusing to testify in the impeachment proceedings, but was later given a full pardon by President Bill Clinton on his last day in office.\n\nHastings filed suit in federal court claiming that his impeachment trial was invalid because he was tried by a Senate committee, not in front of the full Senate, and that he had been acquitted in a criminal trial. Judge Stanley Sporkin ruled in favor of Hastings, remanding the case back to the Senate, but stayed his ruling pending the outcome of an appeal to the Supreme Court in a similar case regarding Judge Walter Nixon, who had also been impeached and removed.\n\nSporkin found some \"crucial distinctions\" between Nixon's case and Hastings', specifically, that Nixon had been convicted criminally, and that Hastings was not found guilty by two-thirds of the committee who actually \"tried\" his impeachment in the Senate. He further added that Hastings had a right to trial by the full Senate.\n\nThe Supreme Court, however, ruled in \"Nixon v. United States\" that the federal courts have no jurisdiction over Senate impeachment matters, so Sporkin's ruling was vacated and Hastings' conviction and removal were upheld. Four years after his conviction, Hastings was elected to the House of Representatives, in which he has continued to sit until the present.\n\nThe Case stemmed from Judge Nixon's grand jury testimony and statements to federal officers concerning his intervention in the Mississippi's drug prosecution of Drew Fairchild, the son of Nixon's business partner Wiley Fairchild. He was convicted of perjury and sentenced to prison. He refused to resign and continued to receive his judicial salary.\n\nOn March 17, 1988 Rep. Peter W. Rodino (D-NJ) introduced an impeachment resolution, H.RES.407, against Nixon, and it was referred to the House Judiciary Committee, which held hearings on the matter. With the case still to be voted on when the term of the House expired, it died.\n\nOn February 22, 1989, Rep. Jack Brooks (D.-Tex.) introduced another impeachment resolution, H.R. Res. 87, and the Judiciary Committee submitted its report, H.R. Rep. No. 101-36, to the House on April 25, 1989. The report included three articles of impeachment against Judge Nixon. On May 10, 1989, the House impeached Nixon by a vote of 417-0. The Senate concluded its trial on November 3, and Judge Nixon was removed from office after being found guilty of articles I and II by a vote of 89 to 8 and 78 to 19 respectively,\n\nNixon appealed to a federal district court, which reversed the conviction, this was appealed to the Supreme Court, which found the case non-justicable.\n\nOn May 19, 1993, Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner introduced H.RES.177, impeaching Judge Aguilar, who had been indicted in the late 1980s for racketeering and was convicted in a 1990 retrial. It was referred to the House Judiciary Committee, who left it in limbo while the Judge's appeals played out. In 1994, the conviction was overturned, and the resolution was left to die. The Judge retired in 1996.\n\nOn May 19, 1993, Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner introduced H.RES.176, impeaching Judge Collins. It was referred to the House Judiciary Committee and died there. Later, in June, Jack Brooks tried again with H RES 207. With impeachment hearings looming, Collins resigned two months later.\n\nOn July 17, 2006, U.S. Representative Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, introduced H.RES.916 calling for an investigation of Judge Real and consider impeaching him. The House Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property subsequently held a hearing on Real's conduct on September 21, but did not agree to recommend impeachment.\n\nJudge Porteous, was not convicted of a crime, but was recommended for removal by the Judicial Council of the Fifth Circuit for egregious misconduct that included receiving gifts from attorneys who came before him, filing false statements in his personal bankruptcy case, and engaging in fraudulent and deceptive conduct concerning his debts and gambling losses.\n\nOn June 18, 2008 the Judicial Conference of the United States transmitted a certificate to the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives expressing the Conference's determination that consideration of impeachment of Judge Porteous might be warranted. The certificate stated that there was substantial evidence that Judge Porteous \"repeatedly committed perjury by signing false financial disclosure forms under oath,\" thus concealing \"cash and things of value that he solicited and received from lawyers appearing in litigation before him.\" In a specific case, \"he denied a motion to recuse based on his relationship with lawyers in the case . . and failed to disclose that the lawyers in question had often provided him with cash. Thereafter, while a bench verdict (that is, a verdict by a judge sitting without a jury) was pending, he solicited and received from the lawyers appearing before him illegal gratuities in the form of cash and other things of value,\" thus depriving \"the public of its right to his honest services.\" The certificate concluded that this conduct \"constituted an abuse of his judicial office\" in violation of the Canons of the Code of Conduct for United States Judges.\n\nThe certificate also stated that there was substantial evidence that Judge Porteous had \"repeatedly committed perjury by signing false financial disclosure forms under oath\" in connection with his bankruptcy, allowing \"him to obtain a discharge of his debts while continuing his lifestyle at the expense of his creditors,\" and that he had \"made false representations to gain the extension of a bank loan with the intent to defraud the bank.\"\n\nOn September 18, 2008, the House Judiciary Committee voted unanimously to proceed with an investigation of the bribery and perjury allegations. On October 15, 2008 House Judiciary Chair John Conyers announced that Alan I. Barron had been hired as Special Counsel to lead an inquiry into Judge Porteous' impeachment. Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) were designated as Chair and ranking member, respectively to lead the task force conducting the inquiry.\n\nOn January 13, 2009, the House of Representatives passed H.Res. 15 by voice vote, authorizing and directing the Committee on the Judiciary to inquire whether the House should impeach Judge Porteous. The judge tried to get a court to stop the hearing in a lawsuit, but failed.\n\nOn January 21, 2010, the task force voted unanimously to recommend four articles of impeachment. The Judiciary Committee, later reported the articles to the House, which adopted them on March 11, 2010.\n\nAn ad hoc Senate committee heard evidence in September and October 2010, and a vote by the full Senate took place on December 8, 2010. Article 1 was passed unanimously, Articles 2 was passed by a vote of 69–27, Article 3 was passed by a vote of 88–8, and Article 4 was passed by a vote of 90 to 6. A further vote to disqualify the former judge from ever holding office again passed by a vote of 94 to 2.\n\nOn May 11, 2009, Judge Kent was sentenced to 33 months in prison in a sex abuse case for lying to investigators about sexually abusing two female employees. Dick DeGuerin, Kent's attorney, said the judge was retiring from the bench because of a disability—which would allow him to keep receiving his $169,300-a-year salary. Retired federal judges collect their full salaries for the remainder of their lives; judges who resign get nothing. That did not satisfy the leaders of the House Judiciary Committee, Reps. John Conyers Jr., (D-Mich.) and Lamar Smith (R-Tex.), who demanded that Kent resign immediately or face possible impeachment.\n\nJudge Kent submitted his resignation on June 2, 2009, with the proviso that it won't take effect for a full year. This angered the membership of the House Judiciary Committee, which voted unanimously on sending four articles of impeachment to the full House of Representatives on June 10, 2009. On June 19, the full House passed the articles unanimously, making Judge Kent the 14th judge to be impeached.\n\nAs the Senate trial committee was organizing itself, Kent updated his resignation to be effective a year earlier than originally planned. The trial was thus mooted, and proceedings came to an end.\n\nCongressman Jerrold Nadler, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee on April 20, 2009 called for the impeachment of Judge Bybee, as Bybee was one of the authors of torture memos written by senior Justice Department lawyers during the Bush administration. As yet, no resolution has been introduced in Congress to further the call. However, in July of that year, Bybee started a legal defense fund in anticipation of impeachment. In February 2010, after more than a year's delay, the Department of Justice released the Office of Professional Responsibility's report on whether government lawyers who wrote these torture memos violated professional ethics and found what Bybee had done was legal. Chances of impeachment, which were always remote, faded away to nothing.\n\nJudge Fuller was arrested on August 9, 2014 after his wife called police and reported her husband was drunk and hitting her while they were at an Atlanta hotel. He later accepted a plea deal that will allow his record to be expunged if he completes a counseling program. The Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals reassigned all of his cases to other judges for the time being.\n\nThe plea deal horrified U.S. Rep. Terri Sewell (D-AL), who demanded Fuller resign by November 12, 2014. When he didn't, she sent a letter to the chairman and ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee to instigate impeachment proceedings.\n\nThe process was put on hold while the Judicial Conference of the United States investigated the matter. It announced that he had indeed committed impeachable offenses.\n\nFuller said he would resign on August 1, 2015, but then said he might change his mind. The House Judiciary committee stated he would indeed be impeached if he didn't resign by the date he originally announced, which he did.\n\n"}
{"id": "2095803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095803", "title": "Interlocutory", "text": "Interlocutory\n\nInterlocutory is a legal term which can refer to an order, sentence, decree, or judgment, given in an intermediate stage between the commencement and termination of a cause of action, used to provide a temporary or provisional decision on an issue. Thus, an interlocutory order is not final and is not subject to immediate appeal.\nIn many U.S. legal systems, interlocutory orders are not appealable, save for in a few extraordinary cases. Interlocutory orders are orders that are issued by a court while a case is still ongoing. These orders are not meant to be final. When the case is concluded, any aspect of an interlocutory order that has not become moot may be challenged in an appeal from the final judgment. However, in other legal systems, such as in England and Wales, in Hong Kong, and in Canada, interlocutory orders in civil matters can be appealed by leave of the appellate court. In criminal matters in Canada, the general rule is that there are no interlocutory appeals, except where Parliament has expressly provided. Australian courts and tribunals generally discourage appeals against interlocutory decisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "37390415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37390415", "title": "Investigation Division of the Central Board of Direct Taxes", "text": "Investigation Division of the Central Board of Direct Taxes\n\nThe Investigation Division of the CBDT, abbreviated as Inv-CBDT, is the revenue enforcement agency of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, Government of India. It functions under the Department of Revenue in the Union Ministry of Finance and is concerned with the collection and administration of, as well as enforcement and prosecution of cases related to, the various direct taxes accruing to the Union Government.\n\n1. Processing of complaints regarding evasion of tax;\n\n2. All matters relating to administrative approval for filing, dropping or withdrawing of prosecution cases in respect of offences mentioned in Chapter XXII of the Income Tax Act and corresponding provisions in other direct taxes;\n\n3. All technical and administrative matters relating to provisions of sections 147 to 153 (both inclusive) of the Income-tax Act, 1961;\n\n4. Searches, seizures and reward to informants;\n\n5. Survey;\n\n6. Voluntary disclosure schemes;\n\n7. Matters relating to the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976;\n\n8. Work connected with High Denomination Bank Notes (Demonetisations) Act, 1978;\n\n9. Supervision and control over the work of Directorate General of Income Tax Investigation Directorate of Income Tax Intelligence and Criminal Investigation, Chief Commissioner of Income Tax Central,\nTo collect intelligence and information regarding aspects of the black economy which require close watch and investigation. Also, keeping in view the scene of economic offences, the Bureau is required to collect information and provide periodical and special reports to the concerned authorities;\n\n10. To keep a watch on different aspects of economic offences and the emergence of new types of such offences. The Bureau was made responsible for evolving counter -measures required for effectively dealing with existing and new types of economic offences;\n\n11. To act as the nodal agency for cooperation and coordination at the international level with other customs, drugs, law enforcement and other agencies in the area of economic offences.\n\n12. To implementation of the COFEPOSA(i.e. Conservation of Foreign Exchange & Prevention of\nSmuggling Activities Act, 1971 which provides for preventive detention of persons involved in smuggling and foreign exchange rackets under certain specified circumstances)\n\nThe Member (Investigation) of the CBDT exercises control over this division. The Member is a high-ranking IRS officer of the rank of Secretary to the Government of India. The Member controls the:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2036899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2036899", "title": "Katko v. Briney", "text": "Katko v. Briney\n\nKatko v. Briney, 183 N.W.2d 657 (Iowa 1971), was a court case decided by the Supreme Court of Iowa, in which a homeowner (Edward Briney) was held liable for battery for injuries caused to a trespasser (Marvin Katko) who set off a spring gun set as a mantrap in an abandoned house on the homeowner's property.\n\nBriney inherited an old farmhouse in Mahaska County, Iowa, which he had left vacant for the last ten years prior to the incident. He had the house boarded up and placed \"No Trespassing\" signs around the property. The house was in poor condition and was subject to frequent burglaries and break-ins. To defend the house against intruders, Briney mounted a 20-gauge spring-loaded shotgun in the farmhouse and rigged it to fire when the north bedroom door was opened. The gun was aimed downward so as to shoot an intruder's legs, rather than cause a mortal injury. Briney also covered the bedroom window with steel. A month later, on July 16, 1967, Katko entered the farmhouse with the intent of stealing some old bottles and dated fruit jars that Katko considered antiques. He was aware of their presence because he and a friend had broken into the house two weeks earlier. When Katko entered the bedroom, he tripped the trigger mechanism and the shotgun fired into his legs at point blank range. The gunshot wounds were sufficiently severe to require hospitalization, and Katko sued Briney after his release from the hospital.\n\nGarold Heslinga of Oskaloosa, Iowa, was the attorney for the appellee (Katko) and Bruce Palmer and H.S. Life. also of Oskaloosa, Iowa, represented the appellants (Brineys).\n\nThe Court ruled that using deadly force on intruders in an unoccupied property was not reasonable or justified. Briney would have been justified in defending himself with the shotgun if he had been home during the intrusion. The plaintiff's status as a trespasser is irrelevant when assessing liability in this case. \n\nThe case stands for the proposition that, although a landowner has no duty to make his property safe for trespassers, he may not set deadly traps against them, holding that \"the law has always placed a higher value upon human safety than upon mere rights in property.\" The court thus ruled for Katko, entering judgment for $20,000 in actual damages and $10,000 in punitive damages.\n\nThe case had several subsequent results. The Brineys sold 80 of their to pay the judgment while proceeding with an appeal. Three of Briney's neighbors bought the property at auction, paying $1 more than the minimum bid of $10,000. After the appeal was denied, they made a leaseback arrangement with Briney, but eventually one sold his share to his son for a profit. Briney and Katko then joined together in a lawsuit against the neighbor to create a constructive trust on the profit, but the case was settled before trial in an amount sufficient to close out the judgment against Briney.\n\nAs Katko's injury was misreported by the United Press International wire service as having taken place in the Briney residence, several states introduced what were called \"Briney Bills\" for self-defense, which was not at issue in the case. The Nebraska Legislature act, stating that \"no person ... shall be placed in ... jeopardy ... for protecting, by any means necessary, himself, his family, or his real estate property\", was overturned due to improper delegation of sentencing authority in \"State v. Goodseal\" (1971).\n\nFour years after the case was decided, Briney was asked if he would change anything about the situation. Briney replied, \"There's one thing I'd do different, though: I'd have aimed that gun a few feet higher.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3390954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3390954", "title": "Laszlo Toth", "text": "Laszlo Toth\n\nLaszlo Toth (Hungarian: \"Tóth László\"; 1 July 1938 – 11 September 2012) was a Hungarian-born Australian geologist. He achieved worldwide notoriety when he vandalised Michelangelo's \"Pietà\" statue on 21 May 1972. Toth was not charged with any criminal offence after the incident. He was hospitalized in Italy for two years. On his release, he was immediately deported to Australia. \n\nToth was born in Pilisvörösvár, Hungary, to a Roman Catholic family. After graduating in geology, in 1965 he moved to Australia. As his English was poor and his geology diploma was not recognized, Toth initially worked at a soap factory. In June 1971 he moved to Rome, Italy, knowing no Italian, and aiming to become recognized as Christ. He sent letters to Pope Paul VI and unsuccessfully attempted to meet him.\n\nOn 21 May 1972, at 33 years of age (Jesus's traditional age at death), on the Feast of Pentecost, Toth, wielding a geologist's hammer and shouting, \"I am Jesus Christ — risen from the dead\", attacked Michelangelo's \"Pietà\" statue in St. Peter's Basilica, Vatican City. With fifteen blows he removed Mary's arm at the elbow, knocked off a chunk of her nose, and chipped one of her eyelids. Toth was subdued by bystanders, including American sculptor Bob Cassilly, who hit Toth several times before pulling him away from the \"Pietà\". In view of his apparent insanity Toth was never charged with the crime. On 29 January 1973, he was committed to an Italian psychiatric hospital. He was released on 9 February 1975, and was immediately deported to Australia, where he had studied prior to the attack; Australian authorities did not detain him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47923278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47923278", "title": "Legal status of the State of Palestine", "text": "Legal status of the State of Palestine\n\nThere are a wide variety of views regarding the legal status of the State of Palestine, both among the states of the international community and among legal scholars. The existence of a state of Palestine, although controversial, is a reality in the opinions of the states that have established bilateral diplomatic relations.\n\nPalestine Liberation Organization (PLO) had been recognized as \"sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people,\" competent on all matters concerning the question of Palestine by the UN General Assembly in addition to the right of the Palestinian people in Palestine to national independence and sovereignty, and was granted observer status at the UN General Assembly as a \"non-state entity\", from 1974. In mid-November 2011, the PLO submitted an official application to become a full member of the UN. A successful application would require approval from the UN Security Council and a two-thirds majority in the UN General Assembly. However, the Security Council's membership committee deadlocked on the issue and had been \"unable to make a unanimous recommendation to the Security Council\". The report was the result of seven weeks of meetings, detailing myriad disagreements between the council members on whether Palestine fulfills the requirements set forth in the U.N. charter for members countries. With their application for full membership stalled, the PLO sought an upgrade in status, from \"observer entity\" to \"non-member observer state\". In November 2012, UN General Assembly accepted the resolution upgrading Palestine to \"non-member observer state\" within the United Nations system, reasserting PLO as the representative of the Palestinian people.\n\nThe UN Charter protects the territorial integrity or political independence of any state from the threat or use of force. Philip Jessup served as a representative of the United States to the United Nations and as a Judge on the International Court of Justice. During the Security Council hearings regarding Israel's application for membership in the UN, he said:\"[W]e already have, among the members of the United Nations, some political entities which do not possess full sovereign power to form their own international policy, which traditionally has been considered characteristic of a State. We know however, that neither at San Francisco nor subsequently has the United Nations considered that complete freedom to frame and manage one's own foreign policy was an essential requisite of United Nations membership... ...The reason for which I mention the qualification of this aspect of the traditional definition of a State is to underline the point that the term \"State\", as used and applied in Article 4 of the Charter of the United Nations, may not be wholly identical with the term \"State\" as it is used and defined in classic textbooks on international law.\"\n\nIn 2009, Riyad al-Maliki, the Palestinian Foreign Minister of the Palestinian National Authority, provided proof that Palestine had been extended legal recognition as a state by 67 other countries, and had bilateral agreements with states in Latin America, Asia, Africa and Europe.\n\nMany states have recognized the State of Palestine since 1988. Under the principles of customary international law, when a government is recognized by another government, recognition is retroactive in effect, and validates all the actions and conduct of the government so recognized from the commencement of its existence.\n\nStephen Talmon notes that many countries have a formal policy of recognizing states, not their governments. In practice, they usually make no formal declarations regarding recognition. He cites several examples including a memorandum on US recognition policy and practice, dated 25 September 1981, which said that recognition would be implied by the US government's dealings with the new government. Many countries have expressed their intention to enter into relations with the State of Palestine. The US formally recognized the West Bank and Gaza Strip as \"one area for political, economic, legal and other purposes\" in 1997 at the request of the Palestinian Authority. At that time, it asked the public to take notice of that fact through announcements it placed in the \"Federal Register\", the official journal of the US government. The USAID West Bank/Gaza, has been tasked with \"state-building\" projects in the areas of democracy, governance, resources, and infrastructure. Part of the USAID mission is to \"provide flexible and discrete support for implementation of the Quartet Road Map\", an internationally backed plan which calls for the progressive development of a viable Palestinian State in the West Bank and Gaza. The European Union (EU) has announced similar external relations programs with the Palestinian Authority.\n\nThe view of the European states, which did not extend full recognition was expressed by French President François Mitterrand who stated: \"Many European countries are not ready to recognize a Palestine state. Others think that between recognition and non-recognition there are significant degrees; I am among these.\" But, after the PLO recognized the state of Israel, Mitterrand welcomed the PLO leader, Yasser Arafat, in Paris, in May 1989.\n\nAfter 1967, a number of legal arguments were advanced which dismissed the right of Palestinians to self-determination and statehood. They generally proposed that Palestine was a land void of a legitimate sovereign and supported Israeli claims to the remaining territory of the Palestine Mandate. Historian and journalist, Gershom Gorenberg, says that outside of the pro-settlement community in Israel, these positions are considered quirky. He says that, while the Israeli government has used them for PR purposes abroad, it takes entirely different positions when arguing real legal cases before the Israeli Supreme Court. In 2005 Israel decided to dismantle all Israeli settlements in the Gaza Strip and four in the northern West Bank. Gorenberg notes, the government's decision was challenged in the Supreme Court by settlers, and the government won the case by noting the settlements were in territory whose legal status was that of 'belligerent territory'. The government argued that the settlers should have known the settlements were only temporary.\n\nMost UN member states questioned the claim that Israel held better title to the land than the inhabitants, and stressed that statehood was an inalienable right of the Palestinian people. Legal experts, like David John Ball, concluded that \"the Palestinians, based on the principles of self-determination and the power of the U.N., appear to hold better title to the territory.\" The International Court of Justice subsequently reaffirmed the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and the prohibition under customary and conventional international law against acquisition of territory by war.\n\nThe Israeli Supreme Court, sitting as the High Court of Justice, cited a case involving the disengagement from Gaza and said that \"The Judea and Samaria areas are held by the State of Israel in belligerent occupation. The long arm of the state in the area is the military commander. He is not the sovereign in the territory held in belligerent occupation. His power is granted him by public international law regarding belligerent occupation. The legal meaning of this view is twofold: first, Israeli law does not apply in these areas. They have not been \"annexed\" to Israel. Second, the legal regime which applies in these areas is determined by public international law regarding belligerent occupation.\"\n\nThe court said that most Israelis in Gaza did not own the land they built on there. \"They acquired their rights from the military commander, or from persons acting on his behalf. Neither the military commander nor those acting on his behalf are owners of the property, and they cannot transfer rights better than those they have. To the extent that the Israelis built their homes and assets on land which is not private ('state land'), that land is not owned by the military commander. His authority is defined in regulation 55 of \"The Hague Regulations\". [...] The State of Israel acts [...] as the administrator of the state property and as usufructuary of it.\"\n\nThe U.S. State Department \"Digest of International Law\" says that the terms of the Treaty of Lausanne provided for the application of the principles of state succession to the \"A\" Mandates. The Treaty of Versailles in 1920 provisionally recognized the former Ottoman communities as independent nations. It also required Germany to recognize the disposition of the former Ottoman territories and to recognize the new states laid down within their boundaries. The Treaty of Lausanne required the newly created states that acquired the territory to pay annuities on the Ottoman public debt, and to assume responsibility for the administration of concessions that had been granted by the Ottomans. A dispute regarding the status of the territories was settled by an Arbitrator appointed by the Council of the League of Nations. It was decided that Palestine and Transjordan were newly created states according to the terms of the applicable post-war treaties. In its \"Judgment No. 5, The Mavrommatis Palestine Concessions\", the Permanent Court of International Justice also decided that Palestine was responsible as the successor state for concessions granted by Ottoman authorities. The Courts of Palestine and Great Britain decided that title to the properties shown on the Ottoman Civil list had been ceded to the government of Palestine as an allied successor state.\n\nA legal analysis by the International Court of Justice noted that the Covenant of the League of Nations had provisionally recognized the communities of Mandate Palestine as independent nations. The mandate simply marked a transitory period, with the aim and object of leading the mandated territory to become an independent self-governing State. The Court said that specific guarantees regarding freedom of movement and access to the Holy Sites contained in the Treaty of Berlin (1878) had been preserved under the terms of the Palestine Mandate and a chapter of the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine. In a separate opinion, Judge Higgins argued that since United Nations Security Council Resolution 242 in 1967 to resolution 1515 in 2003, the \"key underlying requirements\" have been that \"Israel is entitled to exist, to be recognized, and to security, and that the Palestinian people are entitled to their territory, to exercise self-determination, and to have their own State\", with resolution 1515 endorsing the Road map for peace proposed by the Middle East Quartet, as a means to achieve these obligations through negotiation.\n\nArticle 62 (LXII) of the Treaty of Berlin, 13 July 1878 dealt with religious freedom and civil and political rights in all parts of the Ottoman Empire. The guarantees have frequently been referred to as \"religious rights\" or \"minority rights\". However, the guarantees included a prohibition against discrimination in civil and political matters. Difference of religion could not be alleged against any person as a ground for exclusion or incapacity in matters relating to the enjoyment of civil or political rights, admission to public employments, functions, and honors, or the exercise of the various professions and industries, \"in any locality whatsoever.\"\n\nThe resolution of the San Remo Conference contained a safeguarding clause for all of those rights. The conference accepted the terms of the Mandate with reference to Palestine, on the understanding that there was inserted in the process-verbal a legal undertaking by the Mandatory Power that it would not involve the surrender of the rights hitherto enjoyed by the non-Jewish communities in Palestine. The draft mandates for Mesopotamia and Palestine, and all of the post-war peace treaties contained clauses for the protection of minorities. The mandates invoked the compulsory jurisdiction of the Permanent Court of International Justice in the event of any disputes.\n\nArticle 28 of the Mandate required that those rights be safeguarded in perpetuity, under international guarantee. The General Assembly's \"Plan for the Future Government of Palestine\" placed those rights under UN protection as part of a minority protection plan. It required that they be acknowledged in a Declaration, embodied in the fundamental laws of the states, and in their Constitutions. The partition plan also contained provisions that bound the new states to international agreements and conventions to which Palestine had become a party and held them responsible for its financial obligations. The Declarations of the Independent State of Israel and the Independent State of Palestine acknowledged the protected rights and were accepted as being in line with UN resolution 181(II).\n\nJacob Robinson was a legal advisor to the United Nations delegation of the Jewish Agency for Palestine during the special session of the General Assembly in 1947. He advised the Zionist Executive that the provisional states had come into existence as a result of the resolution of 29 November 1947.\n\nL.C. Green explained that \"recognition of statehood is a matter of discretion, it is open to any existing state to accept as a state any entity it wishes, regardless of the existence of territory or an established government.\"\n\nAlex Takkenberg writes that while \"there is no doubt that the entity 'Palestine' should be considered a state \"in statu nascendi\" and although it is increasingly likely that the ongoing peace process will eventually culminate in the establishment of a Palestinian state, it is premature to conclude that statehood, as defined by international law, is at present (spring 1997) firmly established.\" Referring to the four criteria of statehood, as outlined in the 1933 Montevideo Convention – that is, a permanent population, a defined territory, government and the capacity to enter into relations with other states – Takkenberg states that the entity known as Palestine does not fully satisfy these criteria.\n\nConversely John V. Whitbeck, who served as an advisor to the Palestinian negotiation team during negotiations with Israel, writes that \"the State of Palestine already exists,\" and that when, \"Judged by these customary criteria [those of the Montevideo Convention], the State of Palestine is on at least as firm a legal footing as the State of Israel.\" He continues: \"The weak link in Palestine's claim to already exist as a state was, until recently, the fourth criterion, \"effective control... Yet a Palestinian executive and legislature, democratically elected with the enthusiastic approval of the international community, now exercises 'effective control' over a portion of Palestinian territory in which the great majority of the state's population lives. It can no longer be seriously argued that Palestine's claim to exist falls at the fourth and final hurdle.\"\n\nFor John Quigley, Palestine's existence as a state predates the 1988 declaration. Tracing Palestine's status as an international entity back to the collapse of the Ottoman Empire after World War I, he recalls that the Palestine Mandate (1918–48), an arrangement made under Article 22 of the Covenant of the League of Nations, held as its \"ultimate objective\", the \"self-determination and independence of the people concerned.\" He says that in explicitly referring to the Covenant, the 1988 declaration was reaffirming an existing Palestinian statehood. Noting that Palestine under the Mandate entered into bilateral treaties, including one with Great Britain, the Mandatory power, he cites this as an example of its \"sovereignty\" at that time. He also notes the corollary of the Stimson Doctrine and the customary prohibition on the use of force contained in the Restatement of Foreign Relations Law of the United States, \"[a]n entity does not necessarily cease to be a state even if all of its territory has been occupied by a foreign power\".\n\nRobert Weston Ash says that Quigley's analysis of the declaration that the Palestinian Authority provided to the International Criminal Court failed to explain a number of key issues. He says the \"Palestinian people\" to whom sovereignty reverted upon the departure of the British would have included both Jews and Arabs. He suggests that establishes a colorable Jewish —as well as Arab — claim to all of Palestine which tends to refute Professor Quigley's contention that there are no other claimants to that territory. Ash says there are segments of Israeli society that continue to view \"Judea and Samaria\" as areas promised to the Jews by the Balfour Declaration and says that the Geneva Convention is not applicable to Israel's presence in those territories. He cites Yehuda Blum's \"Missing Reversioner\" and Eugene Rostow's related claim that \"The right of the Jewish people to settle in Palestine has never been terminated for the West Bank.\" He also notes that 'the terms of the Interim Agreement prohibit both Israel and the PA from\n“initiat[ing] or tak[ing] any step that will change the status of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip'.\n\nQuigley has said that the International Court of Justice findings in the \"Wall\" case regarding the applicability of the Geneva Convention discredited once and for all, as a legal matter, the \"missing reversioner\" argument. The International Criminal Court has published a summary of arguments which says that some submissions consider that it is clear that the Palestinian National Authority cannot be regarded as a \"State\", and that some submit that Palestine is recognized as a State by many States and many institutions. The Court says that a conclusive determination on Palestine's declaration will have to be made by the judges at an appropriate moment.\n\nSuch experts as Daniel Benoliel, Ronen Perry and Nicholas Stephanopoulos, Dore Gold, Malcolm Shaw also consider Palestinian declaration of independence as a violation of the Oslo Accords.\n\nDisputes have arisen as a result of the Conflict of laws between the Palestinian Authority and Israel. Judgments originating in Israeli Courts are not directly enforceable in the Courts of the Palestinian Authority. The District Court of Israel ruled that the Palestinian Authority satisfied the criteria to be legally treated as a sovereign state The ruling was appealed to the Supreme Court of Israel which ruled that the Palestinian Authority cannot be defined as a foreign state, since recognizing states is an exclusive authority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Supreme Court held that the Palestinian Authority can be granted state immunity on an ad hoc basis when it is warranted by the circumstances. The Knesset responded to the willingness of the judges to engage in examination of the notion of 'statehood for the purpose of state immunity' by adopting a measure that makes it possible to grant sovereign immunity to a 'political entity that is not a state' as part of the 2008 Foreign States Immunity Law, Art. 20.\n\nStefan Talmon notes that \"In international law it is true that one generally recognizes the Government which exercises effective control over a territory. But this is not an absolute rule without exceptions.\" James Crawford notes that despite its prevalence, and inclusion in the statehood criteria found in the Montevideo Convention, effectiveness is not the sole or even the critical criterion for statehood. He cites several examples of annexations and governments that have been recognized despite their lack of a territorial foothold. Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu recently expressed a willingness to recognize the State of Palestine if it will agree to forgo taking effective control of its airspace, military defense, and not enter into alliances with Israel's enemies.\n\nIn November 2009, Palestinian officials were reported to be preparing the ground for asking for recognition of a Palestinian State from the Security Council. The state was envisioned to be based on the 1967 Green Line as an international border with Israel and East Jerusalem as its capital. The plan was reported to have support from Arab states, Russia and the UN Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon. The Secretary General said \"Today, the State of Israel exists, but the State of Palestine does not.\" \"It is vital that a sovereign State of Palestine is achieved\". \"This should be on the basis of the 1967 lines with agreed land swaps and a just and agreed solution to the refugee issue.\" On 29 January 2010, the representative of Palestine deposited a copy of a letter submitted by Prime Minister Fayyad with the UN Secretary-General. The letter reported on the decree issued by Mahmoud Abbas, \"President of the State of Palestine\", concerning the formation of an independent commission to follow up on the Goldstone report in compliance with General Assembly resolution 64/10 of 5 November 2009.\n\nPaul De Waart says that the Quartet, particularly the United States, as well as western states, do not consider Palestine to be a state as yet. In their view the statehood of Palestine will be the result of bilateral negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian people. He says they have overlooked that under international law it is not anymore a question of creating but of recognizing the State of Palestine.\n\nIsraeli legal expert Ruth Lapidoth said the Palestinians have already unilaterally declared statehood, and they did not need to do it again. \"Recognition of statehood is a political act, and every state has the right to decide for itself whether to recognize another state.\"\n\nPresident Abbas said that the State of Palestine was already in existence and that the current battle is to have the state's border recognized.\n\nJerome Segal wrote about Salam Fayyad's plan for Palestinian statehood. He said lest anyone believe that the 1988 declaration is ancient history, they should read the new Fayyad plan with more care. It cites the 1988 declaration four times, identifying it as having articulated \"the foundations of the Palestinian state.\"\n\nIn September 2010, the World Bank released a report which found the Palestinian Authority \"well-positioned to establish a state\" at any point in the near future. The report highlighted, however, that unless private-sector growth in the Palestinian economy was stimulated, a Palestinian state would remain donor dependent.\n\nIn April 2011, the UN's co-ordinator for the Middle East peace process issued a report lauding the Palestinian Authority, describing \"aspects of its administration as sufficient for an independent state.\" It echoed similar assessments published the week prior by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.\n\n"}
{"id": "30021496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30021496", "title": "List of treaties of Turkey", "text": "List of treaties of Turkey\n\nBelow is the list of notable international treaties signed by the government of Turkey (Between 23 April 1920 and 29 October 1923 as the government of Turkish parliament and after 29 October 1923 as the government of Republic of Turkey) \n\nPre-republican era: \n\nRepublican era:\n"}
{"id": "3070339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3070339", "title": "List of weight-of-evidence articles", "text": "List of weight-of-evidence articles\n\nWeight of evidence is a measure of evidence on one side of an issue as compared with the evidence on the other side of the issue, or to measure the evidence on multiple issues.\n\nWeight of evidence or WofE may be used in:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53451795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53451795", "title": "Luluabourg Constitution", "text": "Luluabourg Constitution\n\nThe Luluabourg Constitution () was the second constitution of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Functional from 1 August 1964 until November 1965, it was meant to replace the provisional \"Loi Fundamental\" that had been enacted when independence was declared in 1960. Unlike its predecessor, the Luluabourg Constitution featured a strong executive presidency and carefully delineated federalism between the central government and the provinces. It also formalized the adoption of the name \"Democratic Republic of the Congo\", succeeding the name \"Republic of the Congo\".\n\nAs was agreed upon by the participants in the Belgo-Congolese Round Table Conference in 1960, a formal constitution was to be agreed upon by the Congolese within three to four years of independence.\n\nThe Luluabourg Constitution was mostly a compensation for what its authors perceived to be the shortfalls of the \"Loi Fundamental\". Its principal features were a centralized and strengthened executive and a punctilious separation of responsibilities between the central and provincial governments.\n\nThe constitution formally changed the name of the country from \"Republic of the Congo\" to \"Democratic Republic of the Congo\" and adopted a new national flag.\n\nAccording to the constitution, the president \"determines and directs the policy of the state\" and \"establishes the framework of government action, supervises its application, and informs Parliament of its development\". \n\nThe president was to be selected by an electoral college composed of members of Parliament, members from every provincial assembly, and several delegates from the capital with the number of them being determined by how much representation they would be accorded to in Parliament based on population. The capital delegates and parliamentary delegates would meet in the capital to cast their vote, while the provincial assembly electors would do the same from their respective provincial capitals. All presidential candidates had to be at least 40 years of age. The president was to be chosen by the candidate with a simple majority. If this was not achieved on the first two ballots, then the candidate with a plurality on the third would become president.\n\nThe office of prime minister was retained, thought its functions and responsibilities were largely reduced. The prime minister and all other cabinet ministers were to be named and revoked either individually or collectively by the president.\n\nArticle 6 restricted Congolese nationality solely to persons whose ancestors were a part of an ethnic group that had lived in the Congo before 18 October 1908. This rule could be circumvented if a person submitted a formal request to change their nationality within 12 months of the promulgation of the constitution.\n\nThe Luluabourg Constitution denied citizenship to most Rwandan immigrants in the Congo. Marcel Bisukiro, a former government minister, criticised it as discriminatory.\n\n"}
{"id": "3273927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3273927", "title": "Master and Servant Act", "text": "Master and Servant Act\n\nMaster and Servant Acts or Masters and Servants Acts were laws designed to regulate relations between employers and employees during the 18th and 19th centuries. An 1823 United Kingdom Act described its purpose as \"the better regulations of servants, labourers and work people\". This particular Act greatly influenced industrial relations and employment law in the United States, Australia (an 1845 Act), Canada (1847), New Zealand (1856) and South Africa (1856). These Acts are generally regarded as heavily biased towards employers, designed to discipline employees and repress the \"combination\" of workers in trade unions.\n\nThe law required the obedience and loyalty from servants to their contracted employer, with infringements of the contract punishable before a court of law, often with a jail sentence of hard labour. It was used against workers organising for better conditions from its inception until well after the first United Kingdom Trade Union Act 1871 was implemented, which secured the legal status of trade unions. Until then, a trade union could be regarded as illegal because of being \"in restraint of trade\".\n\nDuring the 1860s, punitive provisions were extended by judicial interpretation, leading to the imprisonment of union officials who led strikes or issued verbal calls challenging an employer's hiring practices such as only using non-union workers. A revised Master and Servant Act was passed in 1867, which supposedly limited imprisonment to \"aggravated\" breaches of contract (where injury to persons or property was likely to result), but it was clear that only workers were subject to its provisions. Imprisonment, even for non-aggravated breaches of contract, continued when working people failed to comply with court orders for specific performance or for non-payment of monetary damages and fines.\n\nBetween 1858 and 1875 on average 10,000 prosecutions a year took place under the Act in Britain. Ernest Jones, a barrister, estimated that, \"[I]n one year alone, 1864, the last return given, under the Master and Servants Act, 10,246 working men were imprisoned at the suit of their masters — not one master at the suit of the men!\" There is some evidence, however, that this may not universally have been the case; at least one scholar has shown that local courts enforced causes of action in the early-to-mid-19th century against masters as well, in at least some instances, albeit in Canada.\n\n\nAs little as one hour's absence by a free servant without permission could precipitate a punishment of prison or the treadmill. In 1840, employees in Australia who left their employment without permission were subject to being hunted down under the Bushrangers Act. In the Melbourne jurisdiction, between 1835 and 1845, when labour shortages were acute, over 20% of prison inmates had been convicted under the New South Wales Act of 1823 for offences including leaving place of work without permission and being found in hotels.\nBy 1902, the 1823 Act had been modified to include forfeit of wages if the written or unwritten contract for work was unfulfilled. Absence from place of work was punishable by imprisonment of up to three months with or without hard labour. There were also penalties of up to 10 pounds for anyone who harboured, concealed or re-employed a 'servant' (i.e. worker) who had deserted or absconded or absented himself from his duty implied in the 'contract'.\n\nThe 1823 Act is not a widely remembered part of Australian political history (although there is a more general association of unacceptable exploitation of workers with the Victorian period). In 2006 a group of trade unionists referred to the 1823 Act in their criticism of the \"WorkChoices\" industrial relations policies of the Howard government, claiming that \"Our rights as workers are back where they were in the early 1800s - the only thing now missing is a Master - Servants Act.\" Similar comparisons have been made by social commentators, unionists and politicians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20570070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20570070", "title": "Ministry of Justice and Human Rights (Iceland)", "text": "Ministry of Justice and Human Rights (Iceland)\n\nThe Icelandic Ministry of Justice and Human Rights () was a cabinet-level ministry within the government of Iceland. Since 2 September 2010, the minister had been Ögmundur Jónasson. The institution was previously known as the \"Ministry of Justice and Ecclesiastical Affairs\".\n\nSince 2011, it was merged with the Ministry of Transport, Communications and Local Government to form the Ministry of Interior.\n\nSince Iceland received the Cabinet of Ministers in 1904, the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice went to the ministers in 1917.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1200597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1200597", "title": "No liability", "text": "No liability\n\nA no-liability company in Australia (suffix NL) is a company which, under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), must have as its stated objects that it is solely a mining company and that it is not entitled to calls on the unpaid issue price of shares. It is a company which is restricted to mining activities and is the only sort of corporation which is entitled to this form of liability, given the sometimes financially risky business of mining. Most of the usual rules in the Act apply to no-liability companies, save that a mining company must adopt a constitution which states their objects as mining.\n\nNo-liability companies should not be confused with the concept of limited liability.\n\nNo-liability companies are differentiated from other companies as their shareholders are not liable to pay calls on unpaid shares. This differs from traditional company structure where the purchase of shares is a binding contract. Should the shareholder choose not to pay when there is a call, the shareholder forfeits both the unpaid and paid shares. This encourages investment in potentially risky mining ventures, as a shareholder with unpaid shares can choose to withdraw from the company with no legal consequences. A successful mining company usually converts to a limited liability company when advantageous.\n\nShares upon which calls had not been paid were forfeit and offered for sale by auction after 14 days. Former owners could redeem their forfeited shares by paying the call and perhaps a fee to cover expenses.\n\nEarly on in the life of the No Liability system, such companies were identified as\n\nThen the \"No Liability\" tag took over, such as\n\nAnd finally\n\nThe word \"mining\" does not have to appear in the name of the company. Oil exploration is a form of mining.\n\n\nOrdinary mining and exploration companies could convert to No Liability status, subject to approval of shareholders and approval of creditors. This was particularly useful when NL status was first introduced.\n\nNo Liability companies which discovered a payable deposit of ore would normally convert to Limited status as this facilitated the financing of that mine.\n\nCompanies in Australia listed on the ASX have a three-character symbol. NL companies may have more than one class of contributing shares. A typical set of symbols might be:\n\n\nThe code does not distinguish between No Liability companies and ordinary companies, only the full company name does that.\n"}
{"id": "12910148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12910148", "title": "Policy-based evidence making", "text": "Policy-based evidence making\n\n\"Policy-based evidence making\" is a pejorative term which refers to the commissioning of research in order to support a policy which has already been decided upon. The name has been suggested as the converse of evidence-based policy making. \n\nAs the name suggests, policy-based evidence making means working back from a predefined policy to produce underpinning evidence. Working from a conclusion to provide only supporting evidence is an approach which contradicts most interpretations of the scientific method; however, it should be distinguished from research into the effects of a policy where such research may provide either supporting or opposing evidence.\n\nIn July 2006, Rebecca Boden and Debbie Epstein published a paper in which they wrote:\n\nThis need [for evidence] has been reified in the UK and elsewhere, as routines of \"evidence-based policy\"-making have been hardwired into the business of Government. Intuitively, basing policies that affect people's lives and the economy on rigorous academic research sounds rational and desirable. However, such approaches are fundamentally flawed by virtue of the fact that Government, in its broadest sense, seeks to capture and control the knowledge producing processes to the point where this type of \"research\" might best be described as \"policy-based evidence\".\n\nThe term \"policy-based evidence making\" was later referred to in a report of the United Kingdom House of Commons Select Committee on Science and Technology into Scientific Advice, Risk and Evidence Based Policy Making issued in October 2006. The committee stated:\n\n[Ministers] should certainly not seek selectively to pick pieces of evidence which support an already agreed policy, or even commission research in order to produce a justification for policy: so-called \"policy-based evidence making\" (see paragraphs 95–6). Where there is an absence of evidence, or even when the Government is knowingly contradicting the evidence—maybe for very good reason—this should be openly acknowledged. [emphasis in original]\n\nThe term has also been applied outside the strictly scientific arena, for example in a position paper for the Arts and Humanities Research Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "639389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639389", "title": "Policy analysis", "text": "Policy analysis\n\nPolicy analysis is a technique used in public administration to enable civil servants, activists, and others to examine and evaluate the available options to implement the goals of laws and elected officials. The process is also used in the administration of large organizations with complex policies. It has been defined as the process of \"determining which of various policies will achieve a given set of goals in light of the relations between the policies and the goals.\" Policy analysis can be divided into two major fields:\n\n\nThe areas of interest and the purpose of analysis determine what types of analysis are conducted. A combination of two kinds of policy analyses together with program evaluation is defined as \"policy studies\". Policy analysis is frequently deployed in the public sector, but is equally applicable elsewhere, such as nonprofit organizations and non-governmental organizations. Policy analysis has its roots in systems analysis, an approach used by United States Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara in the 1960s.\n\nVarious approaches to policy analysis exist. The analysis \"for\" policy (and analysis \"of\" policy) is the central approach in social science and educational policy studies. It is linked to two different traditions of policy analysis and research frameworks. The approach of analysis \"for\" policy refers to research conducted for actual policy development, often commissioned by policymakers inside the bureaucracy (e.g., senior civil servants) within which the policy is developed. Analysis \"of\" policy is more of an academic exercise, conducted by academic researchers, professors and think tank researchers, who are often seeking to understand why a particular policy was developed at a particular time and assess the effects, intended or otherwise, of that policy when it was implemented.\n\nThere are three approaches that can be distinguished: the analysis-centric, the policy process, and the meta-policy approach.\n\nThe analysis-centric (or \"analycentric\") approach focuses on individual problems and their solutions. Its scope is the micro-scale and its problem interpretation or problem resolution usually involves a technical solution. The primary aim is to identify the most effective and efficient solution in technical and economic terms (e.g. the most efficient allocation of resources).\n\nThe policy process approach puts its focal point onto political processes and involved stakeholders; its scope is the broader meso-scale and it interprets problems using a political lens (i.e., the interests and goals of elected officials). It aims at determining what processes, means and policy instruments (e.g., regulation, legislation, subsidy) are used. As well, it tries to explain the role and influence of stakeholders within the policy process . In the 2010s, \"stakeholders\" is defined broadly to include citizens, community groups, non-governmental organizations, businesses and even opposing political parties. By changing the relative power and influence of certain groups (e.g., enhancing public participation and consultation), solutions to problems may be identified that have more \"buy in\" from a wider group. One way of doing this followed a heuristic model called the \"policy cycle\". In its simplest form, the policy cycle, which is often depicted visually as a loop or circle, starts with the identification of the problem, proceeds to an examination of the different policy tools that could be used to respond to that problem, then goes on to the implementation stage, in which one or more policies are put into practice (e.g., a new regulation or subsidy is set in place), and then finally, once the policy has been implemented and run for a certain period, the policy is evaluated. A number of different viewpoints can be used during evaluation, including looking at a policy's effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, value for money, outcomes or outputs.\n\nThe meta-policy approach is a systems and context approach; i.e., its scope is the macro-scale and its problem interpretation is usually of a structural nature. It aims at explaining the contextual factors of the policy process; i.e., what the political, economic and socio-cultural factors are that influence it. As problems may result because of structural factors (e.g., a certain economic system or political institution), solutions may entail changing the structure itself.\n\nPolicy analysis uses both qualitative methods and quantitative methods. Qualitative research includes case studies and interviews with community members. Quantitative research includes survey research, statistical analysis (also called \"data analysis\") and model building. A common practice is to define the problem and evaluation criteria; identify and evaluate alternatives; and recommend a certain policy accordingly. Promotion of the best agendas are the product of careful \"back-room\" analysis of policies by \"a priori\" assessment and \"a posteriori\" evaluation.\n\nThere are six dimensions to policy analysis categorized as the effects and implementation of the policy across a period of time. Also collectively known as \"Durability\" of the policy, which means the capacity in content of the policy to produce visible effective compatible change or results over time with robustness.\n\nEffects\nImplementation\nThe strategic effects dimensions can pose certain limitations due to data collection. However the analytical dimensions of effects directly influences acceptability. The degree of acceptability is based upon the plausible definitions of actors involved in feasibility. If the feasibility dimension is compromised, it will put the implementation at risk, which will entail additional costs. Finally, implementation dimensions collectively influence a policy's ability to produce results or impacts.\n\nOne model of policy analysis is the \"five-E approach\", which consists of examining a policy in terms of:\n\nPolicies are considered as frameworks that can optimize the general well-being. These are commonly analyzed by legislative bodies and lobbyists. Every policy analysis is intended to bring an evaluative outcome. A systemic policy analysis is meant for in depth study for addressing a social problem. Following are steps in a policy analysis:\n\nMany models exist to analyze the development and implementation of public policy. Analysts use these models to identify important aspects of policy, as well as explain and predict policy and its consequences. Each of these models are based upon the types of policies.\n\n\nSome evidence supported models are:\n\nPublic policy is determined by a range of political institutions, which give policy legitimacy to policy measures. In general, the government applies policy to all citizens and monopolizes the use of force in applying or implementing policy (through government control of law enforcement, court systems, imprisonment and armed forces). The legislature, executive and judicial branches of government are examples of institutions that give policy legitimacy. Many countries also have independent, quasi-independent or arm's length bodies which, while funded by government, are independent from elected officials and political leaders. These organizations may include government commissions, tribunals, regulatory agencies and electoral commissions.\n\nPolicy creation is a process that typically follows a sequence of steps or stages:\n\nThis model, however, has been criticized for being overly linear and simplistic. In reality, stages of the policy process may overlap or never happen. Also, this model fails to take into account the multiple factors attempting to influence the process itself as well as each other, and the complexity this entails.\n\nOne of the most widely used model for public institutions are of Herbert A. Simon, the father of rational models. It is also used by private corporations. However, many criticise the model due to characteristics of the model being impractical and relying on unrealistic assumptions. For instance, it is a difficult model to apply in the public sector because social problems can be very complex, ill-defined and interdependent. The problem lies in the thinking procedure implied by the model which is linear and can face difficulties in extraordinary problems or social problems which have no sequences of happenings.\n\nThe rational model of decision-making is a process for making sound decisions in policy-making in the public sector. Rationality is defined as “a style of behavior that is appropriate to the achievement of given goals, within the limits imposed by given conditions and constraints”. It is important to note the model makes a series of assumptions, such as: 'The model must be applied in a system that is stable'; 'The government is a rational and unitary actor and that its actions are perceived as rational choices'; 'The policy problem is unambiguous'; 'There are no limitations of time or cost'.\n\nFurthermore, in the context of the public sector policy models are intended to achieve maximum social gain. Simon identifies an outline of a step by step mode of analysis to achieve rational decisions. Ian Thomas describes Simon's steps as follows:\n\n\nThe model of rational decision-making has also proven to be very useful to several decision making processes in industries outside the public sphere. Nonetheless, there are some who criticize the rational model due to the major problems which can be faced & which tend to arise in practice because social and environmental values can be difficult to quantify and forge consensus around. Furthermore, the assumptions stated by Simon are never fully valid in a real world context.\n\nFurther criticism of the rational model include: leaving a gap between planning and implementation, ignoring of the role of people, entrepreneurs, leadership, etc., the insufficiency of technical competence (i.e. ignoring the human factor), reflecting too mechanical an approach (i.e. the organic nature of organizations), requiring of multidimensional and complex models, generation of predictions which are often wrong (i.e. simple solutions may be overlooked), & incurring of cost (i.e. costs of rational-comprehensive planning may outweigh the cost savings of the policy).\n\nHowever, Thomas R. Dye, the president of the Lincoln Center for Public Service, states the rational model provides a good perspective since in modern society rationality plays a central role and everything that is rational tends to be prized. Thus, it does not seem strange that “we ought to be trying for rational decision-making”.\n\nAn incremental policy model relies on features of incremental decision-making such as: satisfying, organizational drift, bounded rationality, and limited cognition, among others. Such policies are often called \"muddling through\" & represent a conservative tendency: new policies are only slightly different from old policies. Policy-makers are too short on time, resources, and brains to make totally new policies; as such, past policies are accepted as having some legitimacy. When existing policies have sunk costs which discourage innovation, incrementalism is an easier approach than rationalism, and the policies are more politically expedient because they don't necessitate any radical redistribution of values. Such models necessarily struggle to improve the acceptability of public policy.\n\nCriticisms of such a policy approach include: challenges to bargaining (i.e. not successful with limited resources), downplaying useful quantitative information, obscuring real relationships between political entities, an anti-intellectual approach to problems (i.e. the preclusion of imagination), and a bias towards conservatism (i.e. bias against far-reaching solutions).\n\nThere are many contemporary policies relevant to gender and workplace issues. Actors analyze contemporary gender-related employment issues ranging from parental leave and maternity programs, sexual harassment, and work/life balance to gender mainstreaming. It is by the juxtaposition of a variety of research methodologies focused on a common theme the richness of understanding is gained. This integrates what are usually separate bodies of evaluation on the role of gender in welfare state developments, employment transformations, workplace policies, and work experience.\n\nThis policy is formed as a result of forces and pressures from influential groups. Pressure groups are informally co-opted into the policy making process. Regulatory agencies are captured by those they are supposed to regulate. No one group is dominant all the time on all issues. The group is the bridge between the individual and the administration. The executive is thus pressured by interest groups.\n\nThe task of the system is to:\n\nThere are several other major types of policy analysis, broadly groupable into competing approaches:\n\n\n\nThe success of a policy can be measured by changes in the behavior of the target population and active support from various actors and institutions involved. A public policy is an authoritative communication prescribing an unambiguous course of action for specified individuals or groups in certain situations. There must be an authority or leader charged with the implementation and monitoring of the policy with a sound social theory underlying the program and the target group. Evaluations can help estimate what effects will be produced by program objectives/alternatives. However, claims of causality can only be made with randomized control trials in which the policy change is applied to one group and not applied to a control group and individuals are randomly assigned to these groups.\n\nTo obtain compliance of the actors involved, the government can resort to positive sanctions, such as favorable publicity, price supports, tax credits, grants-in-aid, direct services or benefits; declarations; rewards; voluntary standards; mediation; education; demonstration programs; training, contracts; subsidies; loans; general expenditures; informal procedures, bargaining; franchises; sole-source provider awards...etc.\n\nPolicy evaluation is used to examine content, implementation or impact of the policy, which helps to understand the merit, worth and the utility of the policy. Following are National Collaborating Centre for Healthy Public Policy's (NCCHPP) 10 steps:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35682355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35682355", "title": "Prisoners' rights in international law", "text": "Prisoners' rights in international law\n\nPrisoners' rights in international law are found in a number of international treaties. For the most part these treaties came into existence following the two World Wars and the body of law continues to be added to and amended.\n\nThe events of World War I and World War II had a profound effect on international law due to the widespread denial of civil rights and liberties on the basis of racial, religious, and political discrimination. The systematic use of violence, including murder and ultimately genocide, the use of slave labor, abuse and murder of prisoners of war, deportations, and confiscation of property forced changes to the status quo. Over the proceeding decades, large scale changes began to occur in all areas of international law, and prisoners’ rights were no exception. \n\nNow, there are international instruments \n\nFurther there are recommondations which lay down codes by which prisoners should be dealt with. Foremost amongst them are \n\n\nThe Third Geneva Convention defines humanitarian protections for prisoners of war. Prisoners of war are defined as: \n\nPrisoners of war may not renounce rights secured by the Conventions. Those rights include the rights to humane treatment which prohibits specifically violence causing death or seriously endangering health, or physical mutilation or scientific or medical experiments, protection from acts of intimidation, insults and public curiosity, protection from reprisals, exercise, protection from physical or mental torture, adequate physical and psychological treatment, to keep personal items including money, to be evacuated if the territory in which they are held becomes too dangerous, to adequate food, water, shelter and clothing, sanitary living conditions, religious freedom, and to complain. Detaining powers have the right to use appropriate force in the event of escape or a riot, to require prisoners to given their name and rank, and to utilize prisoners for labor as long the work doesn't have to do with the war effort.\n\nThe 1929 Geneva Convention on Prisoners of War was adopted in 1929 but was significantly revised and replaced by the Third Geneva Convention in 1949. The United Nations Security Council is the final international tribunal for all issues relating to the Geneva Conventions. All signatories to the UN Charter, of which there are 193, are bound by the Geneva Conventions.\n\nThe International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights came into force 23 March 1976. Article 10 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights provides that any person deprived of their liberty shall be treated with humanity and dignity. The article imposes a requirement of separation of prisoners in pre-trial detention from those already convicted of crimes, as well as a specific obligation to separate accused juvenile prisoners from adults and bring them before trial speedily. There is also a requirement that the focus of prisons should be reform and rehabilitation, not punishment. These provisions apply to those in prisons, hospitals (particularly psychiatric hospitals), detention facilities, correction facilities or any other facility in which a person is deprived of their liberty. The article complements article 7 of the Covenant, which bans torture or other cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment, by guaranteeing those deprived of their liberty with the same conditions as that set for free persons.\n\nThe United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners came into force in 1955. The standards set out by the UN are not legally binding but offer guidelines in international and municipal law with respect to any person held in any form of custody. They are generally regarded as being good principle and practice for the management of custodial facilities. The document sets out standards for those in custody which covers registration, personal hygiene, clothing and bedding, food, exercise and sport, medical services, discipline and punishment, instruments of restraint, information to and complaints by prisoners, contact with the outside world, books, religion, retentions of prisoners’ property, notification of death, illness, transfer, removal of prisoners, institutional personnel and inspection of facilities. It also sets out guidelines for prisoners under sentence which further includes treatment, classification and individualisation, privileges, work, educations and recreations, and social relations and after-care. There are also special provisions for insane and mentally abnormal prisoners, prisoners under arrest or awaiting trial, civil prisoners and persons arrested or detained without charge.\n\nThe European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment entered into force on 1 March 2002. The Convention establishes the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (the Committee). The Committee is permitted to visit all places of detention, defined by the convention as \"any place within its jurisdiction where persons are deprived of their liberty by a public authority.\" Once a state government is notified of the intention of the Committee to carry out a visit it is required to allow access to the territory with the right to free travel without restriction, full information of the facility in question, unlimited access to the facility and free movement within it, the right to interview any person being held within the facility, communicate freely with any person whom it believes can supply relevant information and access to any other information which the Committee feels is necessary to carry out its task. All information gathered is confidential. In exceptional circumstances a state may make representations based on grounds of national defence, public safety, serious disorder in custodial facilities against a visit to a certain place or at a certain time. After each visit a report is drawn up with any possible suggestions to the state in question.\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities entered into force on 30 March 2007 and has 154 state parties. The Convention’s purpose is to \"promote, protect and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by all persons with disabilities, and to promote respect for their inherent dignity.\" Persons with disabilities are defined as those \"who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairments which in interaction with various barriers may hinder their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others.\"\" Article 13 of the Convention relates to access to justice for persons with disability. It provides that in order to \"ensure effective access to justice for persons with disabilities, States Parties shall promote appropriate training for those working in the field of administration of justice, including police and prison staff.\" \n\nGuantanamo Bay\n\nThe American government has been accused of many breaches of prisoners’ rights in international law. The most publicized case is the detention facility it maintains in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The American government claimed that the facility was not covered by the Geneva Conventions protecting prisoners of war as the detainees were ‘enemy combatants’. Regardless of the status accorded to detainees, international law still prohibits torture. It is now clear that the CIA allowed water boarding which is not only a breach of international law but also the American Army Field Manual which prohibits cruel, humiliating or degrading treatment.\n\nAfghanistan\n\nIn Afghanistan, US soldiers are accused of abusing prisoners in a secret prison in Bagram Air Base. The prisoners held there were exposed to extreme temperatures, not given adequate food, bedding, or natural light and religious duties were interfered with. There are also claims of abuse in Shebarghan prison in northern Afghanistan for which America is jointly responsible with the Afghan government. Shebarghan prison is claimed to be overcrowded with inadequate bathing and ablution facilities, as well as lack of food and medical care.\n\nIraq\n\nIn 2003, accusations started to emerge of prisoner abuse in Abu Ghraib prison. US soldiers at Abu Ghraib prison serving there were accused of beating prisoners, forcing prisoners to strip, forcing prisoners to masturbate, threatening prisoners with dogs, smearing prisoners with faeces, making prisoners simulate sex and form naked piles. There was also accusations that prisoners were raped, sodomised and beaten to death.\n"}
{"id": "50864390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50864390", "title": "Recall of Parliament", "text": "Recall of Parliament\n\nA recall of Parliament is a parliamentary procedure involving an extraordinary sitting of a parliament, occurring outside the time when that parliament would usually meet, such as over a weekend, or when the parliament would normally be in recess. A parliament is generally recalled as a result of events of major national importance, thus allowing members to hold an emergency debate on issues relating to those events. \n\nIn the United Kingdom, decisions as to whether the House of Commons or House of Lords should be recalled are the responsibility of the Speakers of those individual bodies, and are usually taken following a request from the government. This follows a 2001 recommendation from the Hansard Society Commission on Parliamentary Scrutiny that \"the Speaker of the Commons should have the ability to recall Parliament at times of emergency\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Parliament has been recalled on the following occasions:\n\n"}
{"id": "585300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=585300", "title": "Return merchandise authorization", "text": "Return merchandise authorization\n\nA return merchandise authorization (RMA), return authorization (RA) or return goods authorization (RGA) is a part of the process of returning a product to receive a refund, replacement, or repair during the product's warranty period. The purchaser of the product must contact the manufacturer (or distributor or retailer) to obtain authorization to return the product. The resulting RMA or RGA number must be displayed on or included in the returned product's packaging;\n\nReturn to vendor (RTV) refers to the process where goods are returned to the original vendor as opposed to the distributor.\n\nThe issuance of an RMA/RGA is a key gatekeeping moment in the reverse logistics cycle, providing the vendor with a final opportunity to diagnose and correct the customer's problem with the product (such as improper installation or configuration) \"before\" the customer permanently relinquishes ownership of the product to the manufacturer, commonly referred to as a return. As returns are costly for the vendor and inconvenient for the customer, any return that can be prevented benefits both parties.\n\nReturned merchandise requires management after the return. The product has a second life cycle after the return.\n\nAn important aspect of RMA management is learning from RMA trends to prevent further returns. RMAs may be minimized in a number of ways. Adding a customer survey capability may prevent RMAs by detecting problems in advance of returns.\n\nReturns are sometimes minimized by reducing transaction errors prior to the merchandise leaving the seller. Providing additional information to consumers also reduces returns.\n\nReturn to vendor (RTV) refers to the process where goods are returned to the original vendor instead of the distributor. In many cases the RTV was originally returned to the seller by the end consumer. While RTV transactions usually occur between the seller and the vendor, in some instances the end consumer returns the product directly to the vendor, sidestepping the distributor.\n\n"}
{"id": "14041315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14041315", "title": "Road Safety Act 2006", "text": "Road Safety Act 2006\n\nThe Road Safety Act 2006 (c 49) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The provisions contained in the Act are designed to improve road safety and help achieve casualty reduction targets. The Government’s strategy for improving road safety was set out in the framework paper \"Tomorrow’s Roads – safer for everyone\". The aim is to improve road safety and achieve casualty reduction targets of 40% of those killed and seriously injured and 50% reduction for children by 2010.\n\nThe Act creates a new criminal offence of causing death by careless, or inconsiderate, driving. This offence was introduced because of public concern about deaths on the roads and the minimal sentence allowed under the law as it was before the introduction of the Act. A person can now be sentenced summarily to 12 months (in England and Wales) or 6 months or a fine both or on indictment to 5 years or a fine or both. The Act also increased the penalty for use of a hand-held mobile phone or similar device. Section 26 provides for an obligatory endorsement (with disqualification at the court's discretion) for the offence.\n\nThe provisions of the Act cover:\n\nThe following orders have been made under this section:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28536905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28536905", "title": "Rwandan constitutional referendum, 1978", "text": "Rwandan constitutional referendum, 1978\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Rwanda on 17 December 1978. It followed a coup by Juvénal Habyarimana in 1973 and the dissolution of the former sole legal party, MDR-Parmehutu. The new constitution created a presidential republic with no term limits for the President, and made the National Revolutionary Movement for Development the sole legal party. It was approved by 89.1% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "25882473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25882473", "title": "Schmidt decision", "text": "Schmidt decision\n\nSchmidt v Calgary Board of Education (Alberta Supreme Court, Appellate Division, Sinclair, Clement and Moir, JJ.A. October 26, 1976) is the basis for the legal requirement in Alberta that, where a separate school jurisdiction exists (they exist in only some of Alberta), members of the minority faith that established the separate school jurisdiction must be considered and treated as residents, electors, and ratepayers of the separate school jurisdiction. This decision was handed down prior to the enactment of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and it has not been appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada so it is not ultimately determinative of the issue.\n\n\"Schmidt\" is a civil rights case, pre-Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The key question is whether there was an illegal expression of discrimination on the basis of religious beliefs, contrary to the Alberta Individual Rights Protection Act, 1972 (Individual's Rights Protection Act, 1972 (Alta.), c.2, s.3(b) - School Act, R.S.A. 1970, c. 329, ss. 53,142, 143).\n\nIt is also a constitutional law case, relating to the provisions that enshrine the rights of those who choose to establish and operate separate schools in Alberta. (British North America Act, 1867, s. 93 - Alberta Act, 1905 (Can.), c.3, s. 17 - Individual's Rights Protection Act, 1972 (Alta.), c. 2, ss.1(2), 3(b))\n\nThe applicant, Mr. Schmidt, was Roman Catholic, and the father of two young (school-aged) children. The parents had earlier lived in Ontario, where they had enrolled their daughters in a public school, although a Roman Catholic school was available to them. In Ontario, members of the minority faith have the option of being residents, electors, and ratepayers of the public school system.\n\nMr. Schmidt's employer transferred him to Calgary, where he sought to enroll his children in the public school system (as he had done in Ontario). Staff of the Calgary Board of Education advised Mr. Schmidt that he must either pay a non-resident tuition fee for each child or first enroll his children in the separate school system and negotiate with that system to have them transfer the children to the public school system (the Calgary Board of Education) and pay tuition. Mr. Schmidt objected to this process, on the basis that the parents of the children should have the direct opportunity to enroll their children in the public school system. (Mr. Schmidt, although a Roman Catholic, supported public school education and preferred to have his daughters educated in a public school.)\n\nMr. Schmidt lodged a complaint with the Alberta Human Rights Commission. A Board of Inquiry, organized pursuant to the Individual Rights Protection Act, 1972 (Alberta), found against him and upheld the proposition that, in Alberta, wherever a separate school jurisdiction exists, members of the minority faith that established the separate school jurisdiction must be considered and treated as residents, electors, and ratepayers of the separate school jurisdiction. The Board of Inquiry concluded that Mr. Schmidt would have to enroll his children with the Calgary Roman Catholic Separate School District and ask the Separate School District to enter into a tuition agreement with the Calgary Board of Education so that it (CBE) would enroll his child.\n\nMr. Schmidt appealed the decision of the Board of Inquiry, by commencing an action before the Court of Queen's Bench, Alberta. The Court of Queen's Bench found in his favour, overturning the decision of the Board of Inquiry.\n\nThe Calgary Board of Education appealed, and the decision of the Court of Queen's Bench was overturned on appeal to the Alberta Supreme Court, Appellate Division.\n\nMr. Justice Moir, speaking for the Alberta Supreme Court, Appellate Division (now the Alberta Court of Appeal), made several findings. Primary among these are:\n\nThe text of the full decision is available in most Canadian legal databases; however, a free and openly accessible copy of the decision is available on the website of the Public School Boards' Association of Alberta.\n"}
{"id": "4405461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4405461", "title": "Seafarers' Hours of Work and the Manning of Ships Convention, 1996", "text": "Seafarers' Hours of Work and the Manning of Ships Convention, 1996\n\nSeafarers' Hours of Work and the Manning of Ships Convention, 1996 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1996, with the preamble stating:\nRecalling the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982, on 16 November 1994, and\n\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the revision of the Wages, Hours of Work and Manning (Sea) Convention (Revised), 1958, and the Wages, Hours of Work and Manning (Sea) Recommendation, 1958...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention had been ratified by 21 states. However, all but seven of these states have subsequently denounced it.\n\n"}
{"id": "208697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208697", "title": "Social credit", "text": "Social credit\n\nSocial credit is an interdisciplinary distributive philosophy developed by C. H. Douglas (1879–1952), a British engineer who published a book by that name in 1924. It encompasses economics, political science, history, and accounting. Its policies are designed, according to Douglas, to disperse economic and political power to individuals. Douglas wrote, \"Systems were made for men, and not men for systems, and the interest of man which is self-development, is above all systems, whether theological, political or economic.\" Douglas said that Social Crediters want to build a new civilization based upon \"absolute economic security\" for the individual, where \"they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree; and none shall make them afraid.\" In his words, \"what we really demand of existence is not that we shall be put into somebody else's Utopia, but we shall be put in a position to construct a Utopia of our own.\"\n\nIt was while he was reorganising the work at Farnborough, during World War I, that Douglas noticed that the weekly total costs of goods produced was greater than the sums paid to individuals for wages, salaries and dividends. This seemed to contradict the theory of classic Ricardian economics, that all costs are distributed simultaneously as purchasing power. Troubled by the seeming difference between the way money flowed and the objectives of industry (\"delivery of goods and services\", in his opinion), Douglas decided to apply engineering methods to the economic system.\n\nDouglas collected data from more than a hundred large British businesses and found that in nearly every case, except that of companies becoming bankrupt, the sums paid out in salaries, wages and dividends were always less than the total costs of goods and services produced each week: consumers did not have enough income to buy back what they had made. He published his observations and conclusions in an article in the magazine \"The English Review\", where he suggested: \"That we are living under a system of accountancy which renders the delivery of the nation's goods and services to itself a technical impossibility.\" He later formalized this observation in his A+B theorem. Douglas proposed to eliminate this difference between total prices and total incomes by augmenting consumers' purchasing power through a National Dividend and a Compensated Price Mechanism.\n\nAccording to Douglas, the true purpose of production is consumption, and production must serve the genuine, freely expressed interests of consumers. In order to accomplish this objective, he believed that each citizen should have a beneficial, not direct, inheritance in the communal capital conferred by complete access to consumer goods assured by the National Dividend and Compensated Price. Douglas thought that consumers, fully provided with adequate purchasing power, will establish the policy of production through exercise of their monetary vote. In this view, the term economic democracy does not mean worker control of industry, but democratic control of credit. Removing the policy of production from banking institutions, government, and industry, social credit envisages an \"aristocracy of producers, serving and accredited by a democracy of consumers.\"\n\nThe policy proposals of social credit attracted widespread interest in the decades between the world wars of the twentieth century because of their relevance to economic conditions of the time. Douglas called attention to the excess of production capacity over consumer purchasing power, an observation that was also made by John Maynard Keynes in his book, \"The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money\". While Douglas shared some of Keynes' criticisms of classical economics, his unique remedies were disputed and even rejected by most economists and bankers of the time. Remnants of social credit still exist within social credit parties throughout the world, but not in the purest form originally advanced by Douglas.\n\nDouglas disagreed with classical economists who recognised only three factors of production: land, labour and capital. While Douglas did not deny the role of these factors in production, he considered the “cultural inheritance of society” as the primary factor. He defined cultural inheritance as the knowledge, techniques and processes that have accrued to us incrementally from the origins of civilization (i.e. progress). Consequently, mankind does not have to keep \"reinventing the wheel\". \"We are merely the administrators of that cultural inheritance, and to that extent the cultural inheritance is the property of all of us, without exception. Adam Smith, David Ricardo and Karl Marx claimed that labour creates all value. While Douglas did not deny that all costs ultimately relate to labour charges of some sort (past or present), he denied that the present labour of the world creates all wealth. Douglas carefully distinguished between value, costs and prices. He claimed that one of the factors resulting in a misdirection of thought in terms of the nature and function of money was economists' near-obsession about values and their relation to prices and incomes. While Douglas recognized \"value in use\" as a legitimate theory of values, he also considered values as subjective and not capable of being measured in an objective manner. Thus he rejected the idea of the role of money as a standard, or measure, of value. Douglas believed that money should act as a medium of communication by which consumers direct the distribution of production.\n\nClosely associated with the concept of cultural inheritance as a factor of production is the social credit theory of economic sabotage. While Douglas believed the cultural heritage factor of production is primary in increasing wealth, he also believed that economic sabotage is the primary factor decreasing it. The word wealth derives from the Old English word \"wela\", or \"well-being\", and Douglas believed that all production should increase personal well-being. Therefore, production that does not directly increase personal well-being is waste, or economic sabotage.\nThe economic effect of charging all the waste in industry to the consumer so curtails his purchasing power that an increasing percentage of the product of industry must be exported. The effect of this on the worker is that he has to do many times the amount of work which should be necessary to keep him in the highest standard of living, as a result of an artificial inducement to produce things he does not want, which he cannot buy, and which are of no use to the attainment of his internal standard of well-being.\nBy modern methods of accounting, the consumer is forced to pay for all the costs of production, including waste. The economic effect of charging the consumer with all waste in industry is that the consumer is forced to do much more work than is necessary. Douglas believed that wasted effort could be directly linked to confusion in regards to the purpose of the economic system, and the belief that the economic system exists to provide employment in order to distribute goods and services.\nBut it may be advisable to glance at some of the proximate causes operating to reduce the return for effort ; and to realise the origin of most of the specific instances, it must be borne in mind that the existing economic system distributes goods and services through the same agency which induces goods and services, i.e., payment for work in progress. In other words, if production stops, distribution stops, and, as a consequence, a clear incentive exists to produce useless or superfluous articles in order that useful commodities already existing may be distributed. This perfectly simple reason is the explanation of the increasing necessity of what has come to be called economic sabotage ; the colossal waste of effort which goes on in every walk of life quite unobserved by the majority of people because they are so familiar with it ; a waste which yet so over-taxed the ingenuity of society to extend it that the climax of war only occurred in the moment when a culminating exhibition of organised sabotage was necessary to preserve the system from spontaneous combustion.\nDouglas claimed there were three possible policy alternatives with respect to the economic system:\n1. The first of these is that it is a disguised Government, of which the primary, though admittedly not the only, object is to impose upon the world a system of thought and action.\n\n2. The second alternative has a certain similarity to the first, but is simpler. It assumes that the primary objective of the industrial system is the provision of employment.\n\n3. And the third, which is essentially simpler still, in fact, so simple that it appears entirely unintelligible to the majority, is that the object of the industrial system is merely to provide goods and services.\nDouglas believed that it was the third policy alternative upon which an economic system should be based, but confusion of thought has allowed the industrial system to be governed by the first two objectives. If the purpose of our economic system is to deliver the maximum amount of goods and services with the least amount of effort, then the ability to deliver goods and services with the least amount of employment is actually desirable. Douglas proposed that unemployment is a logical consequence of machines replacing labour in the productive process, and any attempt to reverse this process through policies designed to attain full employment directly sabotages our cultural inheritance. Douglas also believed that the people displaced from the industrial system through the process of mechanization should still have the ability to consume the fruits of the system, because he suggested that we are all inheritors of the cultural inheritance, and his proposal for a national dividend is directly related to this belief.\n\nDouglas criticized classical economics because many of the theories are based upon a barter economy, whereas the modern economy is a monetary one. Initially, money originated from the productive system, when cattle owners punched leather discs which represented a head of cattle. These discs could then be exchanged for corn, and the corn producers could then exchange the disc for a head of cattle at a later date. The word “pecuniary\" comes from the Latin \"pecunia\", originally and literally meaning \"cattle\" (related to \"pecus\", meaning \"beast\"). Today, the productive system and the monetary system are two separate entities. Douglas demonstrated that loans create deposits, and presented mathematical proof in his book \"Social Credit\". Bank credit comprises the vast majority of money, and is created every time a bank makes a loan. Douglas was also one of the first to understand the creditary nature of money. The word credit derives from the Latin \"credere\", meaning \"to believe\". \"The essential quality of money, therefore, is that a man shall believe that he can get what he wants by the aid of it.\"\n\nAccording to economists, money is a medium of exchange. Douglas argued that this may have once been the case when the majority of wealth was produced by individuals who subsequently exchanged it with each other. But in modern economies, division of labour splits production into multiple processes, and wealth is produced by people working in association with each other. For instance, an automobile worker does not produce any wealth (i.e., the automobile) by himself, but only in conjunction with other auto workers, the producers of roads, gasoline, insurance, etc.\n\nIn this opinion, wealth is a pool upon which people can draw, and money becomes a ticketing system. The efficiency gained by individuals cooperating in the productive process was named by Douglas as the \"unearned increment of association\" – historic accumulations of which constitute what Douglas called the cultural heritage. The means of drawing upon this pool is money distributed by the banking system.\n\nDouglas believed that money should not be regarded as a commodity but rather as a ticket, a means of distribution of production. \"There are two sides to this question of a ticket representing something that we can call, if we like, a value. There is the ticket itself – the money which forms the thing we call 'effective demand' – and there is something we call a price opposite to it.\" Money is effective demand, and the means of reclaiming that money are prices and taxes. As real capital replaces labour in the process of modernization, money should become increasingly an instrument of distribution. The idea that money is a medium of exchange is related to the belief that all wealth is created by the current labour of the world, and Douglas clearly rejected this belief, stating that the cultural inheritance of society is the primary factor in the creation of wealth, which makes money a distribution mechanism, not a medium of exchange.\n\nDouglas also claimed the problem of production, or scarcity, had long been solved. The new problem was one of distribution. However; so long as orthodox economics makes scarcity a value, banks will continue to believe that they are creating value for the money they produce by making it scarce. Douglas criticized the banking system on two counts:\nThe former Douglas identified as being anti-social in policy. The latter he claimed was equivalent to claiming ownership of the nation. According to Douglas, money is merely an abstract representation of the real credit of the community, which is the ability of the community to deliver goods and services, when and where they are required.\n\nIn January 1919, \"A Mechanical View of Economics\" by C. H. Douglas was the first article to be published in the magazine \"New Age\", edited by Alfred Richard Orage, critiquing the methods by which economic activity is typically measured:\nIt is not the purpose of this short article to depreciate the services of accountants; in fact, under the existing conditions probably no body of men has done more to crystallise the data on which we carry on the business of the world; but the utter confusion of thought which has undoubtedly arisen from the calm assumption of the book-keeper and the accountant that he and he alone was in a position to assign positive or negative values to the quantities represented by his figures is one of the outstanding curiosities of the industrial system; and the attempt to mould the activities of a great empire on such a basis is surely the final condemnation of an out-worn method.\nIn 1920, Douglas presented the A + B theorem in his book, \"Credit-Power and Democracy\", in critique of accounting methodology pertinent to income and prices. In the fourth, Australian Edition of 1933, Douglas states:\nA factory or other productive organization has, besides its economic function as a producer of goods, a financial aspect – it may be regarded on the one hand as a device for the distribution of purchasing-power to individuals through the media of wages, salaries, and dividends; and on the other hand as a manufactory of prices – financial values. From this standpoint, its payments may be divided into two groups:\n\nNow the rate of flow of purchasing-power to individuals is represented by A, but since all payments go into prices, the rate of flow of prices cannot be less than A+B. The product of any factory may be considered as something which the public ought to be able to buy, although in many cases it is an intermediate product of no use to individuals but only to a subsequent manufacture; but since A will not purchase A+B; a proportion of the product at least equivalent to B must be distributed by a form of purchasing-power which is not comprised in the description grouped under A. It will be necessary at a later stage to show that this additional purchasing power is provided by loan credit (bank overdrafts) or export credit.\nBeyond empirical evidence, Douglas claims this deductive theorem demonstrates that total prices increase faster than total incomes when regarded as a flow.\n\nIn his pamphlet entitled \"The New and the Old Economics\", Douglas describes the cause of \"B\" payments:\nI think that a little consideration will make it clear that in this sense an overhead charge is any charge in respect of which the actual distributed purchasing power does not still exist, and that practically this means any charge created at a further distance in the past than the period of cyclic rate of circulation of money. There is no fundamental difference between tools and intermediate products, and the latter may therefore be included.\n\nIn 1932, Douglas estimated the cyclic rate of circulation of money to be approximately three weeks. The cyclic rate of circulation of money measures the amount of time required for a loan to pass through the productive system and return to the bank. This can be calculated by determining the amount of clearings through the bank in a year divided by the average amount of deposits held at the banks (which varies very little). The result is the number of times money must turnover in order to produce these clearing house figures. In a testimony before the Alberta Agricultural Committee of the Alberta Legislature in 1934, Douglas said:\nNow we know there are an increasing number of charges which originated from a period much anterior to three weeks, and included in those charges, as a matter of fact, are most of the charges made in, respect of purchases from one organization to another, but all such charges as capital charges (for instance, on a railway which was constructed a year, two years, three years, five or ten years ago, where charges are still extant), cannot be liquidated by a stream of purchasing power which does not increase in volume and which has a period of three weeks. The consequence is, you have a piling up of debt, you have in many cases a diminution of purchasing power being equivalent to the price of the goods for sale.\n\nAccording to Douglas, the major consequence of the problem he identified in his A+B theorem is exponentially increasing debt. Further, he believed that society is forced to produce goods that consumers either do not want or cannot afford to purchase. The latter represents a favorable balance of trade, meaning a country exports more than it imports. But not every country can pursue this objective at the same time, as one country must import more than it exports when another country exports more than it imports. Douglas proposed that the long-term consequence of this policy is a trade war, typically resulting in real war – hence, the social credit admonition, “He who calls for Full-Employment calls for War!”, expressed by the Social Credit Party of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, led by John Hargrave. The former represents excessive capital production and/or military build-up. Military buildup necessitates either the violent use of weapons or a superfluous accumulation of them.\nDouglas believed that excessive capital production is only a temporary correction, because the cost of the capital appears in the cost of consumer goods, or taxes, which will further exacerbate future gaps between income and prices.\nIn the first place, these capital goods have to be sold to someone. They form a reservoir of forced exports. They must, as intermediate products, enter somehow into the price of subsequent ultimate products and they produce a position of most unstable equilibrium, since the life of capital goods is in general longer than that of consumable goods, or ultimate products, and yet in order to meet the requirements for money to buy the consumable goods, the rate of production of capital goods must be continuously increased.\nThe replacement of labour by capital in the productive process implies that overhead charges (B) increase in relation to income (A), because \"'B' is the financial representation of the lever of capital”. As Douglas stated in his first article, \"The Delusion of Superproduction\":\nThe factory cost – not the selling price – of any article under our present industrial and financial system is made up of three main divisions-direct labor cost, material cost and overhead charges, the ratio of which varies widely, with the \"modernity\" of the method of production. For instance, a sculptor producing a work of art with the aid of simple tools and a block of marble has next to no overhead charges, but a very low rate of production, while a modern screw-making plant using automatic machines may have very high overhead charges and very low direct labour cost, or high rates of production.\n\nSince increased industrial output per individual depends mainly on tools and method, it may almost be stated as a law that intensified production means a progressively higher ratio of overhead charges to direct labour cost, and, apart from artificial reasons, this is simply an indication of the extent to which machinery replaces manual labour, as it should.\nIf overhead charges are constantly increasing relative to income, any attempt to stabilize or increase income results in increasing prices. If income is constant or increasing, and overhead charges are continuously increasing due to technological advancement, then prices, which equal income plus overhead charges, must also increase. Further, any attempt to stabilize or decrease prices must be met by decreasing incomes according to this analysis. As the Phillips Curve demonstrates, inflation and unemployment are trade-offs, unless prices are reduced from monies derived from outside the productive system. According to Douglas's A+B theorem, the systemic problem of increasing prices, or inflation, is not \"too much money chasing too few goods\", but is the increasing rate of overhead charges in production due to the replacement of labour by capital in industry combined with a policy of full employment. Douglas did not suggest that inflation cannot be caused by too much money chasing too few consumer goods, but according to his analysis this is not the only cause of inflation, and inflation is systemic according to the rules of cost accountancy given overhead charges are constantly increasing relative to income. In other words, inflation can exist even if consumers have insufficient purchasing power to buy back all of production. Douglas claimed that there were two limits which governed prices, a lower limit governed by the cost of production, and an upper limit governed by what an article will fetch on the open market. Douglas suggested that this is the reason why deflation is regarded as a problem in orthodox economics because bankers and businessmen were very apt to forget the lower limit of prices.\n\nDouglas proposed to eliminate the gap between purchasing power and prices by increasing consumer purchasing power with credits which do not appear in prices in the form of a price rebate and a dividend. Formally called a \"Compensated Price\" and a \"National (or Consumer) Dividend\", a National Credit Office would be charged with the task of calculating the size of the rebate and dividend by determining a national balance sheet, and calculating aggregate production and consumption statistics.\n\nThe price rebate is based upon the observation that the real cost of production is the mean rate of consumption over the mean rate of production for an equivalent period of time.\n\nwhere\n\n\nThe physical cost of producing something is the materials and capital that were consumed in its production, plus that amount of consumer goods labour consumed during its production. This total consumption represents the physical, or real, cost of production.\n\nwhere\n\nSince fewer inputs are consumed to produce a unit of output with every improvement in process, the real cost of production falls over time. As a result, prices should also decrease with the progression of time. \"As society's capacity to deliver goods and services is increased by the use of plant and still more by scientific progress, and decreased by the production, maintenance, or depreciation of it, we can issue credit, in costs, at a greater rate than the rate at which we take it back through prices of ultimate products, if capacity to supply individuals exceeds desire.\"\n\nBased on his conclusion that the real cost of production is less than the financial cost of production, the Douglas price rebate (Compensated Price) is determined by the ratio of consumption to production. Since consumption over a period of time is typically less than production over the same period of time in any industrial society, the real cost of goods should be less than the financial cost.\n\nFor example, if the money cost of a good is $100, and the ratio of consumption to production is 3/4, then the real cost of the good is $100(3/4) = $75. As a result, if a consumer spent $100 for a good, the National Credit Authority would rebate the consumer $25. The good costs the consumer $75, the retailer receives $100, and the consumer receives the difference of $25 via new credits created by the National Credit Authority.\n\nThe National Dividend is justified by the displacement of labour in the productive process due to technological increases in productivity. As human labour is increasingly replaced by machines in the productive process, Douglas believed people should be free to consume while enjoying increasing amounts of leisure, and that the Dividend would provide this freedom.\n\nCritics of the theorem, such as J. M. Pullen, Hawtrey and J. M. Keynes argue there is no difference between A and B payments. Other critics, such as Gary North, argue that social credit policies are inflationary. \"The A + B theorem has met with almost universal rejection from academic economists on the grounds that, although B payments may be made initially to “other organizations,” they will not necessarily be lost to the flow of available purchasing power. A and B payments overlap through time. Even if the B payments are received and spent before the finished product is available for purchase, current purchasing power will be boosted by B payments received in the current production of goods that will be available for purchase in the future.\"\n\nA. W. Joseph replied to this specific criticism in a paper given to the Birmingham Actuarial Society, \"Banking and Industry\":\nLet A1+B1 be the costs in a period to time of articles produced by factories making consumable goods divided up into A1 costs which refer to money paid to individuals by means of salaries, wages, dividends, etc., and B1 costs which refer to money paid to other institutions. Let A2, B2 be the corresponding costs of factories producing capital equipment. The money distributed to individuals is A1+A2 and the cost of the final consumable goods is A1+B1. If money in the hands of the public is to be equal to the costs of consumable articles produced then A1+A2 = A1+B1 and therefore A2=B1. Now modern science has brought us to the stage where machines are more and more taking the place of human labour in producing goods, i.e. A1 is becoming less important relatively to B1 and A2 less important relatively to B2.\nIn symbols if B1/A1 = k1 and B2/A2 = k2 both k1 and k2 are increasing.\n\nSince A2=B1 this means that (A2+B2)/(A1+B1)= (1+k2)*A2/(1+1/k1)*B1 = (1+k2)/(1+1/k1) which is increasing.\nThus in order that the economic system should keep working it is essential that capital goods should be produced in ever increasing quantity relatively to consumable goods. As soon as the ratio of capital goods to consumable goods slackens, costs exceed money distributed, i.e. the consumer is unable to purchase the consumable goods coming on the market.\"\nAnd in a reply to Dr. Hobson, Douglas restated his central thesis: \"To reiterate categorically, the theorem criticised by Mr. Hobson: the wages, salaries and dividends distributed during a given period do not, and cannot, buy the production of that period; that production can only be bought, i.e., distributed, under present conditions by a draft, and an increasing draft, on the purchasing power distributed in respect of future production, and this latter is mainly and increasingly derived from financial credit created by the banks.\"\n\nIncomes are paid to workers during a multi-stage program of production. According to the convention of accepted orthodox rules of accountancy, those incomes are part of the financial cost and price of the final product. For the product to be purchased with incomes earned in respect of its manufacture, all of these incomes would have to be saved until the product's completion. Douglas argued that incomes are typically spent on past production to meet the present needs of living, and will not be available to purchase goods completed in the future – goods which must include the sum of incomes paid out during their period of manufacture in their price. Consequently, this does not liquidate the financial cost of production inasmuch as it merely passes charges of one accountancy period on as mounting charges against future periods. In other words, according to Douglas, supply does not create enough demand to liquidate all the costs of production. Douglas denied the validity of Say's Law in economics.\n\nWhile John Maynard Keynes referred to Douglas as a \"private, perhaps, but not a major in the brave army of heretics\", he did state that Douglas \"is entitled to claim, as against some of his orthodox adversaries, that he at least has not been wholly oblivious of the outstanding problem of our economic system.\" While Keynes said that Douglas's A+B theorem \"includes much mere mystification\", he reaches a similar conclusion to Douglas when he states:\nThus the problem of providing that new capital-investment shall always outrun capital-disinvestment sufficiently to fill the gap between net income and consumption, presents a problem which is increasingly difficult as capital increases. New capital-investment can only take place in excess of current capital-disinvestment if future expenditure on consumption is expected to increase. Each time we secure to-day's equilibrium by increased investment we are aggravating the difficulty of securing equilibrium to-morrow.\nThe criticism that social credit policies are inflationary is based upon what economists call the quantity theory of money, which states that the quantity of money multiplied by its velocity of circulation equals total purchasing power. Douglas was quite critical of this theory stating, \"The velocity of the circulation of money in the ordinary sense of the phrase, is – if I may put it that way – a complete myth. No additional purchasing power at all is created by the velocity of the circulation of money. The rate of transfer from hand-to-hand, as you might say, of goods is increased, of course, by the rate of spending, but no more costs can be canceled by one unit of purchasing power than one unit of cost. Every time a unit of purchasing power passes through the costing system it creates a cost, and when it comes back again to the same costing system by the buying and transfer of the unit of production to the consuming system it may be cancelled, but that process is quite irrespective of what is called the velocity of money, so the categorical answer is that I do not take any account of the velocity of money in that sense.\" The Alberta Social Credit government published in a committee report what was perceived as an error in regards to this theory: \"The fallacy in the theory lies in the incorrect assumption that money 'circulates', whereas it is issued against production, and withdrawn as purchasing power as the goods are bought for consumption.\"\n\nOther critics argue that if the gap between income and prices exists as Douglas claimed, the economy would have collapsed in short order. They also argue that there are periods of time in which purchasing power is in excess of the price of consumer goods for sale.\n\nDouglas replied to these criticisms in his testimony before the Alberta Agricultural Committee:\nWhat people who say that forget is that we were piling up debt at that time at the rate of ten millions sterling a day and if it can be shown, and it can be shown, that we are increasing debt continuously by normal operation of the banking system and the financial system at the present time, then that is proof that we are not distributing purchasing power sufficient to buy the goods for sale at that time; otherwise we should not be increasing debt, and that is the situation.\nC.H. Douglas defined democracy as the “will of the people”, not rule by the majority, suggesting that social credit could be implemented by any political party supported by effective public demand. Once implemented to achieve a realistic integration of means and ends, party politics would cease to exist. Traditional ballot box democracy is incompatible with Social Credit, which assumes the right of individuals to choose freely one choice at a time, and to contract out of unsatisfactory associations. Douglas advocated what he called the “responsible vote”, where anonymity in the voting process would no longer exist. \"The individual voter must be made individually responsible, not collectively taxable, for his vote.\" Douglas believed that party politics should be replaced by a \"union of electors\" in which the only role of an elected official would be to implement the popular will. Douglas believed that the implementation of such a system was necessary as otherwise the government would be controlled by international financiers. Douglas also opposed the secret ballot arguing that it resulted in electoral irresponsibility, calling it a \"Jewish\" technique used to ensure Barabbas was freed leaving Christ to be crucified.\n\nDouglas considered the constitution an organism, not an organization. In this view, establishing the supremacy of common law is essential to ensure protection of individual rights from an all-powerful parliament. Douglas also believed the effectiveness of British government is determined structurally by application of a Christian concept known as Trinitarianism: \"In some form or other, sovereignty in the British Isles for the last two thousand years has been Trinitarian. Whether we look on this Trinitarianism under the names of King, Lords and Commons or as Policy, Sanctions and Administration, the Trinity-in-Unity has existed, and our national success has been greatest when the balance (never perfect) has been approached.\"\n\nOpposing the formation of Social Credit parties, C.H. Douglas believed a group of elected amateurs should never direct a group of competent experts in technical matters. While experts are ultimately responsible for achieving results, the goal of politicians should be to pressure those experts to deliver policy results desired by the populace. According to Douglas, \"the proper function of Parliament is to force all activities of a public nature to be carried on so that the individuals who comprise the public may derive the maximum benefit from them. Once the idea is grasped, the criminal absurdity of the party system becomes evident.\"\n\nC. H. Douglas was a civil engineer who pursued his higher education at Cambridge University. His early writings appeared most notably in the British intellectual journal \"The New Age\". The editor of that publication, Alfred Orage, devoted the magazines \"The New Age\" and later \"The New English Weekly\" to the promulgation of Douglas's ideas until his death on the eve of his BBC speech on social credit, 5 November 1934, in the \"Poverty in Plenty\" Series.\n\nDouglas’s first book, \"Economic Democracy\", was published in 1920, soon after his article \"The Delusion of Super-Production\" appeared in 1918 in the \"English Review\". Among Douglas’s other early works were \"The Control and Distribution of Production\", \"Credit-Power and Democracy\", \"Warning Democracy\" and \"The Monopoly of Credit\". Of considerable interest is the evidence he presented to the Canadian House of Commons Select Committee on Banking and Commerce in 1923, to the British Parliamentary Macmillan Committee on Finance and Industry in 1930, which included exchanges with economist John Maynard Keynes, and to the Agricultural Committee of the Alberta Legislature in 1934 during the term of the United Farmers of Alberta Government in that Canadian province.\n\nThe writings of C. H. Douglas spawned a worldwide movement, most prominent in the British Commonwealth, with a presence in Europe and activities in the United States where Orage, during his sojourn there, promoted Douglas’s ideas. In the United States, the New Democracy group was directed by the American author Gorham Munson who contributed a major book on social credit titled \"Aladdin’s Lamp: The Wealth of the American People\". While Canada and New Zealand had electoral successes with “social credit” political parties, the efforts in England and Australia were devoted primarily to pressuring existing parties to implement social credit. This function was performed especially by Douglas’s social credit secretariat in England and the Commonwealth Leagues of Rights in Australia. Douglas continued writing and contributing to the secretariat’s journals, initially \"Social Credit\" and soon thereafter \"The Social Crediter\" (which continues to be published by the Secretariat) for the remainder of his lifetime, concentrating more on political and philosophical issues during his later years.\n\nDuring early years of the philosophy, the management of the British Labour Party resisted pressure from some trade unionists to implement social credit, as hierarchical views of Fabian socialism, economic growth and full employment, were incompatible with the National Dividend and abolition of wage slavery suggested by Douglas. In an effort to discredit the social credit movement, one leading Fabian, Sidney Webb, is said to have declared that he didn’t care whether Douglas was technically correct or not – he simply did not like his policy.\n\nIn 1935 the world's first Social Credit government was elected in Alberta, Canada led by William Aberhart. A book by Maurice Colbourne, entitled \"The Meaning of Social Credit\", had convinced Aberhart that the theories of Major Douglas would facilitate for Alberta's recovery from the Great Depression. Aberhart added a heavy dose of fundamentalist Christianity to Douglas' theories, and the Canadian social credit movement, which was largely nurtured in Alberta, thus acquired a strong social conservative influence.\n\nDouglas was consulted by counselled the 1921-1935 United Farmers of Alberta provincial government in Alberta, but the UFA saw only difficulties in trying to bring in Social Credit. Douglas became an advisor to Aberhart, but withdrew after short time and never visited Alberta after 1935 due to strategic differences. Aberhart sought orthodox counsel with respect to the Province's finances, and the correspondence between them was published by Douglas in his book, \"The Alberta Experiment\".\n\nWhile Aberhart, the Premier, wanted to balance the provincial budget, Douglas argued the concept of a \"balanced budget\" was inconsistent with Social Credit principles. Douglas stated that, under existing rules of financial cost accountancy, balancing all budgets within an economy simultaneously is an arithmetic impossibility. In a letter to Aberhart, Douglas stated:\nThis seems to be a suitable occasion on which to emphasise the proposition that a Balanced Budget is quite inconsistent with the use of Social Credit (i.e., Real Credit – the ability to deliver goods and services 'as, when and where required') in the modern world, and is simply a statement in accounting figures that the progress of the country is stationary, i.e., that it consumes exactly what it produces, including capital assets. The result of the acceptance of this proposition is that all capital appreciation becomes quite automatically the property of those who create and issue of money [i.e., the banking system] and the necessary unbalancing of the Budget is covered by Debts.\nDouglas sent two social credit technical advisors from the United Kingdom, L. Denis Byrne and George F. Powell, to Alberta. But early attempts to pass social credit legislation were ruled \"ultra vires\" by the Supreme Court of Canada and/or the Privy Council in London. Drawing on the monetary theories of Silvio Gesell, William Aberhart issued a currency substitute known as prosperity certificates. These scrips intentionally depreciated in value the longer they were held, and Douglas openly criticized the idea:\nGesell's theory was that the trouble with the world was that people saved money so that what you had to do was to make them spend it faster. Disappearing money is the heaviest form of continuous taxation ever devised. The theory behind this idea of Gesell's was that what is required is to stimulate trade – that you have to get people frantically buying goods – a perfectly sound idea so long as the objective of life is merely trading.\nThey did provide spending power to many impoverished Albertans in the time they were in circulation.\n\nAberhart did bring in a measure of social credit, with the establishment of a government-owned banking system, the Alberta Treasury Branches, still in operation today and now the only government-owned bank in North America that serves the public.\n\nUnder Ernest Manning, who succeeded Aberhart after his death in 1943, the Alberta Social Credit Party soon departed from its origins and became popularly identified as a right wing populist party. In the Secretariat’s journal, \"An Act for the Better Management of the Credit of Alberta\", Douglas published a critical analysis of the Social Credit movement in Alberta, in which he said, \"The Manning administration is no more a Social Credit administration than the British government is Labour\". Manning accused Douglas and his followers of anti-Semitism, and purged \"Douglasites\" from the Alberta government. The British Columbia Social Credit Party won power in 1952 in the province to Alberta's west, but had little in common with Social Credit bank reform, Major Douglas or his theories.\n\nSocial credit parties also enjoyed some electoral success at the federal level in Canada. The Social Credit Party of Canada was initiated mostly by Albertans, and eventually created another base of support in Quebec. Social Credit also did well nationally in New Zealand, where it was the country's third party for almost 30 years.\n\nDouglas described Social Credit as \"the policy of a philosophy\", and warned against considering it solely as a scheme for monetary reform. He called this philosophy \"practical Christianity\" and stated that its central issue is the Incarnation. Douglas believed that there was a Canon which permeated the universe, and Jesus Christ was the Incarnation of this Canon. However, he also believed that Christianity remained ineffective so long as it remained transcendental. Religion, which derives from the Latin word \"religare\" (to “bind back”), was intended to be a binding back to reality. Social Credit is concerned with the incarnation of Christian principles in our organic affairs. Specifically, it is concerned with the principles of association and how to maximize the increments of association which redound to satisfaction of the individual in society – while minimizing any decrements of association.\nThe goal of Social Credit is to maximize immanent sovereignty. Social credit is consonant with the Christian doctrine of salvation through unearned grace, and is therefore incompatible with any variant of the doctrine of salvation through works. Works need not be of Purity in intent or of desirable consequence and in themselves alone are as \"filthy rags\". For instance, the present system makes destructive, obscenely wasteful wars a virtual certainty – which provides much \"work\" for everyone. Social credit has been called the Third Alternative to the futile Left-Right Duality.\n\nAlthough Douglas defined social credit as a philosophy with Christian origins, he did not envision a Christian theocracy. Douglas did not believe that religion should be mandated by law or external compulsion. Practical Christian society is Trinitarian in structure, based upon a constitution where the constitution is an organism changing in relation to our knowledge of the nature of the universe. \"The progress of human society is best measured by the extent of its creative ability. Imbued with a number of natural gifts, notably reason, memory, understanding and free will, man has learned gradually to master the secrets of nature, and to build for himself a world wherein lie the potentialities of peace, security, liberty and abundance.\" Douglas said that social crediters want to build a new civilization based upon absolute economic security for the individual – where “they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree; and none shall make them afraid.” In keeping with this goal, Douglas was opposed to all forms of taxation on real property. This set social credit at variance from the land-taxing recommendations of Henry George.\n\nSocial credit society recognizes the fact that the relationship between man and God is unique. In this view, it is essential to allow man the greatest possible freedom in order to pursue this relationship. Douglas defined freedom as the ability to choose and refuse one choice at a time, and to contract out of unsatisfactory associations. Douglas believed that if people were given the economic security and leisure achievable in the context of a social credit dispensation, most would end their service to Mammon and use their free time to pursue spiritual, intellectual or cultural goals resulting in self-development. Douglas opposed what he termed \"the pyramid of power\". Totalitarianism represents this pyramid and is the antithesis of social credit. It turns the government into an end instead of a means, and the individual into a means instead of an end – \"Demon est deus inversus\" – “the Devil is God upside down.” Social credit is designed to give the individual the maximum freedom allowable given the need for association in economic, political and social matters. Social Credit elevates the importance of the individual and holds that all institutions exist to serve the individual – that the State exists to serve its citizens, not that individuals exist to serve the State.\n\nDouglas emphasized that all policy derives from its respective philosophy and that “Society is primarily metaphysical, and must have regard to the organic relationships of its prototype.”\nSocial credit rejects dialectical materialistic philosophy. \"The tendency to argue from the particular to the general is a special case of the sequence from materialism to collectivism. If the universe is reduced to molecules, ultimately we can dispense with a catalogue and a dictionary; all things are the same thing, and all words are just sounds – molecules in motion.\"\n\nDouglas divided philosophy into two schools of thought that he termed the \"classical school\" and the \"modern school\", which are broadly represented by philosophies of Aristotle and Francis Bacon respectively. Douglas was critical of both schools of thought, but believed that \"the truth lies in appreciation of the fact that neither conception is useful without the other\".\n\nSocial crediters and Douglas have been criticized for spreading antisemitism. Douglas was critical of \"international Jewry\", especially in his later writings. He asserted that such Jews controlled many of the major banks and were involved in an international conspiracy to centralize the power of finance. Some people have claimed that Douglas was antisemitic because he was quite critical of pre-Christian philosophy. In his book \"Social Credit\", he wrote that, \"It is not too much to say that one of the root ideas through which Christianity comes into conflict with the conceptions of the Old Testament and the ideals of the pre-Christians' era is in respect of this dethronement of abstractionism.\"\n\nDouglas was opposed to abstractionist philosophies, because he believed that these philosophies inevitably resulted in the elevation of abstractions, such as the state, and legal fictions, such as corporate personhood, over the individual. He also believed that what Jews considered as abstractionist thought tended to encourage them to endorse communist ideals and an emphasis on collectives over individuals. John L. Finlay, in his book \"Social Credit: The English Origins\", wrote, \"Anti-Semitism of the Douglas kind, if it can be called anti-Semitism at all, may be fantastic, may be dangerous even, in that it may be twisted into a dreadful form, but it is not itself vicious nor evil.\"\n\nIn her book \"Social Discredit: Anti-Semitism, Social Credit and the Jewish Response\", Janine Stingel writes that \"Douglas' economic and political doctrines were wholly dependent on an anti-Semitic conspiracy theory.\" John L. Finlay disagrees with Stingel's assertion and argues that, \"It must also be noted that while Douglas was critical of some aspects of Jewish thought, Douglas did not seek to discriminate against Jews as a people or race. It was never suggested that the National Dividend be withheld from them.\"\n\n\nFederal political parties:\n\nProvincial political parties:\n\nOrganizations:\n\n\n\n\n\nAs lack of finance has been a constant impediment to the development of the arts and literature, the concept of economic democracy through social credit had immediate appeal in literary circles. Names associated with social credit include C.M. Grieve, Charlie Chaplin, William Carlos Williams, Ezra Pound, T. S. Eliot, Herbert Read, Aldous Huxley, Storm Jameson, Eimar O'Duffy, Sybil Thorndyke, Bonamy Dobrée, Eric de Maré and the American publisher James Laughlin. Hilaire Belloc and GK Chesterton espoused similar ideas. In 1933 Eimar O'Duffy published \"Asses in Clover\", a science fiction fantasy exploration of social credit themes. His social credit economics book \"Life and Money: Being a Critical Examination of the Principles and Practice of Orthodox Economics with A Practical Scheme to End the Muddle it has made of our Civilisation\", was endorsed by Douglas.\n\nRobert A. Heinlein described a social credit economy in his posthumously-published first novel, \"\", and his \"Beyond This Horizon\" describes a similar system in less detail. In Heinlein's future society, government is not funded by taxation. Instead, government controls the currency and prevents inflation by providing a price rebate to participating business and a guaranteed income to every citizen.\n\nIn his novel \"The Trick Top Hat\", part of his \"Schrödinger's Cat Trilogy\", Robert Anton Wilson described the implementation by the President of an alternate future United States of an altered form of social credit, in which the government issues a National Dividend to all citizens in the form of \"trade aids,\" which can be spent like money but which cannot be lent at interest (in order to mollify the banking industry) and which eventually expire (to prevent inflation and hoarding).\n\nMore recently, Richard C. Cook, an analyst for the U.S. Civil Service Commission, Food and Drug Administration, NASA, the U.S. Treasury Department, and author of the books \"Challenger Revealed\" and \"We Hold These Truths\", has written several articles relating to social credit and monetary reform at Global Research, an independent research and media group of writers, scholars, journalists and activists. Frances Hutchinson, Chairperson of the Social Credit Secretariat, has co-authored, with Brian Burkitt, a book entitled \"The Political Economy of Social Credit and Guild Socialism\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11182562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11182562", "title": "Sustainable Forestry Initiative", "text": "Sustainable Forestry Initiative\n\nThe Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) is a North American 'forest certification standard' and program of SFI Inc., a non-profit organization. The Sustainable Forestry Initiative is the world’s largest single forest certification standard by area.The SFI is headquartered in Ottawa, Ontario Canada and Washington D.C. USA.\n\nIn 2005, the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), which itself is the world's largest forest certifications system, recognized the SFI standard.\n\nThe SFI Forest Management Standard covers key values such as protection of biodiversity, species at risk and wildlife habitat; sustainable harvest levels; protection of water quality; and prompt regeneration. A new set of SFI 2015-2019 Standards and Rules, developed through an open review process, took effect on Jan. 1, 2015. All SFI certifications require independent, third-party audits and are performed by internationally accredited certification bodies.\n\nThe SFI Standards are revised and updated every five years to incorporate the latest scientific information and to respond to emerging issues. As part of this process, comments were received during two 60-day public comment periods in 2013 and 2014, and input was received from 12 public workshops across the United States and Canada. About 10,000 stakeholders were invited to submit comments. Participants included public and private landowners, forest sector representatives, Indigenous communities, conservation groups, industry, academia and government officials. \n\nIndependent oversight was provided at each stage of the revision process by the SFI External Review Panel, a group of independent experts representing conservation, professional, academic and public organizations, operating at arm’s length from SFI. The SFI External Review Panel reviewed every public comment submitted to ensure that all comments were considered, and to guarantee the Standard revision process was transparent, objective and credible. The responses to comments are posted on the SFI website.\n\nThe SFI Program only certifies lands in the United States and Canada, and program participants must comply with all applicable laws. For sources outside of North America without effective laws, participants must avoid illegal or other controversial sources. The SFI Program supports activities by international experts to find ways to address the problem of illegal logging and is a member of the international, multi-stakeholder Forest Legality Alliance.\n\nThe SFI 2015-2019 Fiber Sourcing Standard promotes responsible forestry practices based on 14 Principles, 13 Objectives, 21 Performance Measures and 55 Indicators that address the 90 percent of the world’s forests that are not certified. The SFI 2015-2019 Fiber Sourcing Standard distinguishes SFI from all other forest certification programs in that it sets mandatory practice requirements for the responsible procurement of all fiber, even if it is sourced from non-certified land. These fiber sourcing requirements include measures to broaden the practice of biodiversity, use best management practices to protect water quality, and utilize the services of forest management and harvesting professionals. Because it governs how SFI Program Participants procure fiber from non-certified land, supporters argue that the Standard encourages the spread of responsible forestry practices.\n\nSFI has certified more than 285 million acres (115 million hectares) to its standard in the United States and Canada. At the end of October 2010, SFI had 959 chain of custody certifications at 2,339 locations. According to the United Nations, SFI was the fastest growing organization for chain of custody certifications in 2008.\n\nThe Board of Directors that governs the SFI program has three chambers that recognize economic, environmental and social sectors equally. Directors include representatives of environmental, conservation, professional and academic groups, independent professional loggers, family forest owners, public officials, labor and the forest products industry.\n\nThe United Nations Economic Commission for Europe/Food and Agriculture Organization, in its \"2009-2010 Forest products Annual Review\", says: \"Over the years, many of the issues that previously divided the (certification) systems have become much less distinct. The largest certification systems now generally have the same structural programmatic requirements.\"\n\nDovetail Partners Inc., in its \"2010 Forest Certification: A Status Report\", states: \"the previous differences between forest certification programs are much less distinct ... each program generally has the same structural programmatic requirements, although the required content and level of detail provided by each may vary considerably.\"\n\nSFI is generally considered less stringent than that of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). For example, SFI allows more tree farming and does not require conservation plans or consultation with local and indigenous stakeholders (except for public lands).\n\nSFI is less highly rated than FSC for example by Consumer Reports “Greener Choices”, and Green America. Others rate SFI/PEFC and FSC equally: TerraChoice (part of Underwriters Laboratories Global Network) in its 2010 Sins of Greenwashing report, like its 2009 one, counts the SFI/PEFC and FSC in its second-tier list of \"legitimate\" environmental standards and certifications.; as does Environment Canada's EcoLogo.\n\nA National Association of State Foresters forest certification policy statement passed by resolution in 2008 states: \"While in different manners, the ATFS (American Tree Farm System), FSC (Forest Stewardship Council), and SFI systems include the fundamental elements of credibility and make positive contributions to forest sustainability. . . . No certification program can credibly claim to be ‘best’, and no certification program that promotes itself as the only certification option can maintain credibility.\"\n\nOn April 5, 2016, the U.S. Green Building Council issued a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) pilot alternative compliance path (ACP) designed to screen out illegal forest products from LEED buildings. While the ACP is being tested as a credit, it will ultimately become a prerequisite that applies to all LEED projects. As a pilot, the ACP does not become a permanent part of the LEED standard without an affirmative vote of the USGBC membership. The ACP pilot recognizes all certified sources - FSC, PEFC, SFI and ATFS and programs. The ACP will apply to all LEED v4 rating systems including Homes v4 and to all LEED 2009 rating systems. \n\nThe ACP categorizes the various forest certification standards based on the ASTM D7612-10 (2015) standard, which is titled “Categorizing Wood and Wood-Based Products According to Their Fiber Sources.” ASTM (American Society for Testing and Materials) International is a globally recognized leader in the development and delivery of voluntary consensus standards.\n\nOther green building tools, including two American National Standards Institute (ANSI)-approved rating systems in the United States – ANSI-ICC 700-2008: National Green Building Standard and ANSI/GBI 01-2010: Green Building Assessment Protocol for Commercial Buildings (formerly Green Globes U.S.) – Green Globes and Built Green Canada recognize wood products certified by credible third-party certification programs like SFI.\n\nThe SFI Program is supported by conservation groups such as Conservation International, American Bird Conservancy, Ducks Unlimited, and the Conservation Fund (which serves on its Board). \n\nUnlike SFI, the FSC included environmental groups such as Greenpeace among its founders. The National Wildlife Federation and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) currently serve on the FSC Board. The Sierra Club endorses only FSC.\n\nOn September 9, 2009 the Washington State Forest Law Center, on behalf of the environmental protection group ForestEthics, filed complaints against SFI Inc. with the Federal Trade Commission and the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nThe FTC complaint accuses SFI Inc. of misleading consumers with deceptive marketing practices. The complaint cites various aspects of SFI’s marketing, including its claim that it is an “independent” not-for-profit organization, its dependence on the timber industry for funding, and the vagueness of SFI’s environmental standards, which allow SFI-certified landowners to be certified merely because the landowner is complying with state environmental regulations. The complaint cites SFI’s certification as an example of greenwash.\n\nBoth the FTC and IRS investigated the complaints made against SFI and found them without merit. No action was taken by either investigative body.\nThe complaint filed with the IRS requests an examination of SFI Inc.’s non-profit status, based on the fact that SFI benefits the private interests of its corporate landowners and not the public interest, as well as the fact that SFI draws more than 80% of its funding from the wood and paper industry. The complaint asserts that in serving the private interests of wood and paper companies that want a ‘green’ image, SFI is inappropriately granted a nonprofit status reserved for public charities.\n\nThe IRS investigated the complaint as well as conducted a thorough examination of SFI’s non-profit status and concluded that it was appropriate and that no further action was required.\n\nThe Sierra Club has lodged a formal complaint with the SFI, alleging that Weyerhaeuser engaged in risky and irresponsible logging on steep slopes that led to 1,259 landslides in 2007 on SFI-certified Weyerhaeuser lands in Washington state. Challenging SFI to back up its claims of 'independence' and 'rigorous audits,' the Sierra Club requested that Weyerhaeuser's SFI certification be revoked.\n\nA peer reviewed landslide study concluded that the Washington State landslides that the Sierra Club attributed to Weyerhaeuser’s logging practices were the result of extreme weather conditions such as heavy rainfall and not the result of steep slope logging by the company. Landslides occur on both logged and unlogged sites, but science shows that logging (and logging roads) dramatically increase the risk of landslides.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49444477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49444477", "title": "Sustainable Groundwater Management Act", "text": "Sustainable Groundwater Management Act\n\nThe Sustainable Groundwater Management Act (SGMA) is a three-bill package that passed the California state legislature and was signed into California state law by Governor Jerry Brown in September 2014. Its purpose is to ensure better local and regional management of groundwater use and it seeks to have a sustainable groundwater management in California by 2042. It emphasizes local management and formed groundwater sustainability agencies (GSAs) from local and regional authorities.\n\nProposition 1 provides $100 million to financially support sustainable groundwater management as well as cleanup and storage.\n\nGroundwater in California is used by 85% of the population, mostly used by the agriculture industry as the main water source for crops. For years, groundwater use has been poorly managed and under-regulated to a point where the state is facing major depletion.\n\nGroundwater is particularly crucial in California because the dearth of surface water means that it supplies between one-third and two-thirds of the state's freshwater supply, depending on climatic conditions. It is being pumped in excess of the natural rate of replenishment, which in return is lowering the groundwater table, a phenomenon called \"overdraft\" that can cause severe land subsidence.\n\nIn 1980, the Department of Water Resources (DWR) noted that of California's 450 groundwater basins, 40 were in overdraft and 11 were identified as being in \"critical\" conditions and groundwater levels have dropped to 50 feet below historic levels—up to 100 feet below in the San Joaquin Valley. Knowing how much groundwater is being taken out and used is difficult because there is no reporting requirement. There are a few exceptions that require basins operating under government regulation and special state legislation. Managing groundwater is also challenging because it does not adhere to property lines and freely moves underground. With few incentives and fewer regulations to conserve groundwater, California farms have planted higher-value crops that require year-round irrigation and have drilled deeper wells to retrieve groundwater from sinking aquifers. Drought conditions in California are only pushing for a more heavily regulated groundwater management to be implemented now.\n\nThe Sustainable Groundwater Management Act (SGMA) consists of three bills. It was primarily authored by California State Assemblymember Roger Dickinson (AB 1739) and State Senator Fran Pavley (SB 1319 and SB 1168).\n\nAB 1739 gives the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) or a groundwater sustainability agency (GSA) the authority to establish fees (detailed in SB 1168) and offer support to \"entities that extract or use groundwater to promote water conservation and protect groundwater resources\". GSAs are locally controlled organizations in California's high- and medium-priority groundwater basins and are responsible for preparing a groundwater sustainability plan (GSP), implementing SGMA, and coordinating with neighbors.\n\nAB 1739 also requires DWR to organize and publish an online report with estimates of groundwater replenishment and best practices. GSAs are required to submit a groundwater sustainability plan (GSP) to the DWR for review. DWR must determine regulations to evaluate, implement, and coordinate GSPs based on conditions of \"hydrology, water demand, regulatory restrictions that affect the availability of surface water, and unreliability of, or reductions in, surface water deliveries to the agency or water users in the basin, and impact of those conditions on achieving sustainability and shall include the historic average reliability and deliveries of surface water to the agency or water users in the basin\".\n\nApproved by Governor Jerry Brown on September 16, 2014, Senator Pavley's SB 1319 authorized local agencies to implement a groundwater plan. Management of groundwater prior to the Sustainable Groundwater Management Act was unregulated and voluntary for the various agencies using groundwater ranging from special districts under authority granted from the state, city, and county ordinances and court adjudicated basins. Senate bill 1319 requires for the groundwater management plans to follow specific and include components that the state deems as sustainable for the specific groundwater basin and aligns with the SGMA timeline. If an agency was seeking funds from the Department of Water Resources for a project regarding groundwater or groundwater quality, they too have to abide to specific requirements such as preparing and implementing a groundwater management plan. Managing groundwater is a challenging task, one that has been addressed by the SGMA. Groundwater is out of sight which makes it difficult to monitor, especially when the groundwater basins boundaries reach across multiple agencies and users. Pumping unregulated and mismanaged groundwater can lead to a \"tragedy of the commons\", with each user maximizing the resource for their own gain with little responsibility for the depleting aquifer. The SGMA set basin boundaries based on a 2003 Department of Water Resources report. The report broke it down into there being 431 current groundwater basins in California that have been delineated, of these basins 24 are subdivided into 108 basins to total 515 basins in all. The report based these boundaries off the alluvial sediments found using geographic maps. Groundwater is difficult to manage due to it being unseen and not neatly aligned with the jurisdiction of these set basin boundaries. The SGMA calls for the GSAs to communicate and work with the overlapping groundwater uses and allow for a governance of the basin through different means. These can include a memorandum of agreement (unofficial and often made outside the courts) between the multiple parties or through a legal joint agreement. By these agreements the groundwater basin can be regulated by multiple GSAs or just by one agency.\n\nThe California Constitution and SB 1168 require that any use of the groundwater be both reasonable and beneficial. California has a history of complex water rights, in which the Reasonable and Beneficial Use Doctrine is a key tenet. The doctrine was originally developed for riparian landowners and surface water management, but SB 1168 applied it to the context of groundwater and the SGMA, stating that any use of groundwater has to be sustainably managed for long-term reliability and multiple economic, social, and environmental benefits for future uses.\n\nSpecifically, SB 1168 gives GSAs the authority to:\n\nIt requires the Department of Water Resources to:\n\nSince the collection of bills that make up SGMA were complex, some minor changes were made in SB 13 pertaining to GSA formation. Prior to SB 13, existing law required that each high- and medium-priority groundwater basins be managed after implementing a groundwater sustainability plan and subjected reporting requirements to the State Water Resources Control Board. SB 13 changed DWR's role with respect to reviewing, posting, and tracking GSA formation notices. Changes include notifying reviews, GSA boundaries which overlap, and service area boundaries.\n\nKey terms in the GSMA are defined as follows:\n\n\nA GSA is a local agency that implements the SGMA as the primary entity responsible for reaching groundwater sustainability. It is required to develop and implement a groundwater sustainability plan (GSP) to consider the interests of all of its stakeholders.\n\nAny local agency or combinations thereof may form a GSA for the basin in which they overlap. A \"local agency\" refers to a local public agency that has water supply, management, and land use obligations within the groundwater basin. The SGMA determined 43 high-priority groundwater basins and 84 medium-priority groundwater basins, totaling 127 basins accounting for 96% of California's groundwater. These basins must adopt GSPs by 2020 or 2022 (depending on the basin) and have until 2040 or 2042 to attain sustainability. A local agency can decide not to form a GSA and submit an alternative proposal to DWR if they believe the alternative will meet the objectives and long-term goals of the GSMA. The DWR is required to assess the alternative proposal to see if it satisfies the objectives and goals of the SGMA. If it does not, the local agency is required to form a GSA and develop a GSP. The GSMA required GSAs to be formed by June 30, 2017.\n\nAs part of its implementation, DWR has developed a Strategic Plan to document its Sustainable Groundwater Management (SGM) Program, which expands on its responsibilities in SGMA. The Strategic Plan describes the state's groundwater conditions, identifies legislation, policies, and success factors, describes the goals and objectives of DWR actions, and presents the plan for DWR communication and outreach with stakeholders.\n\nSupport for the act stemmed from the goal of avoiding negative impacts of lowering the water table and subsidence throughout California with implementing specific, measurable objectives. California has had a long history of complex water rights dealing with the ownership and management of surface water. Groundwater has stayed under the regulation radar, which led to the overdraft of vital basins and the subsidence of land taking place throughout the Central Valley. The SGMA gives responsibility to both state authority and local oversight to bring groundwater basins in California to sustainable yields within a given time period.\n\nOne of the main arguments in opposition of AB 1739 and SB 1168 was from the California Farm Bureau Federation (CFBF), which was concerned that the bills were rushed and did not allow enough time to address many of the complex issues of groundwater. In addition, the Farm Bureau explained that there would be \"huge long-term economic impacts\" on farms as well as state and local economies, with a \"very real potential to devalue land\", thereby affecting the viability of farms and business as well as jobs. Opponents from the CFBF included counties in the Central Valley and agricultural businesses.\n\nThe approval of Proposition 1, the Water Quality, Supply, and Infrastructure Improvement Act, guaranteed $900 million in funding for the development of a Groundwater Sustainability Program. The DWR has released the first draft of the Proposal Solicitation Package (PSP) for GSPs. This initial PSP has made $86.3 million available for the, \"planning, development, or preparation of GSPs\" and a minimum of $10 million from the initial PSP has been earmarked for Severely Disadvantaged Communities. Eligibility for grant approval requires that the GSPs address high- or medium-priority basins. The SWRCB has already released its initial round of funding for certain preventative and restorative groundwater initiatives which can be seen below.\n\n"}
{"id": "32195371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32195371", "title": "Systemically important financial institution", "text": "Systemically important financial institution\n\nA systemically important financial institution (SIFI) or systemically important bank (SIB) is a bank, insurance company, or other financial institution whose failure might trigger a financial crisis. They are colloquially referred to as \"too big to fail\".\n\nAs the 2007-2012 global financial crisis has unfolded, the international community has moved to protect the global financial system through preventing the failure of SIFIs, or, if one does fail, limiting the adverse effects of its failure. In November 2011, the Financial Stability Board published a list of global systemically important financial institutions (G-SIFIs).\n\nThe Basel Committee on Banking Supervision introduced new regulations (known as Basel III) that also specifically target SIFIs. The main focus of the regulations is to increase bank capital requirements and to introduce capital surcharges for systemically important banks. However, some economists have warned that the tighter Basel III capital regulation, which is primarily based on risk-weighted assets, may further negatively affect the stability of the financial system.\n\nIt is important to note that both the Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee are only policy research and development entities. They do not establish laws, regulations or rules for any financial institution directly. They merely act in an advisory capacity. It is up to each country's specific lawmakers and regulators to enact whatever portions of the recommendations they deem appropriate. Each country's internal financial regulators make their own determination of what is a \"Systemically Important Financial Institution\". Once those regulators make that determination, they may set specific laws, regulations and rules that would apply to those entities.\n\nVirtually every Systemically Important Financial Institution operates at the top level as a holding company made up of numerous subsidiaries. It is not unusual for the subsidiaries to number in the hundreds. Even though the uppermost holding company is located in the home country, where it is subject, at that level, to that home regulator, the subsidiaries may be organized and operating in several different countries. Each subsidiary is then subject to potential regulation by every country where it actually conducts business.\n\nAt present (and for the likely foreseeable future) there is no such thing as a global regulator. Likewise there is no such thing as global insolvency, global bankruptcy, or the legal requirement for a global bail out. Each legal entity is treated separately. Each country is responsible (in theory) for containing a financial crisis that starts in their country from spreading across borders. Looking up from a country prospective as to what is a Systemically Important Financial Institution may be different than when looking down on the entire globe and attempting to determine what entities are significant.\n\nThe degree of interconnectedness between financial institutions is almost completely unknown at any specific point in time. When trouble breaks out, fear and contagion effects are extremely unpredictable. Therefore, determining exactly what entities are \"significant\" is a difficult assignment, as the real certainty is determinable only well after the fact.\n\nAs of November 2011, a standard definition of \"systemically important financial institution\" had not been decided. However, the Basel Committee has identified factors for assessing whether a financial institution is systemically important: its size, its complexity, its interconnectedness, the lack of readily available substitutes for the financial infrastructure it provides, and its global (cross-jurisdictional) activity. In some cases, the assessments of experts, independent of the indicators, will be able to move an institution into the SIFI category or remove it from SIFI status.\n\nBanks in Japan deemed systemically important are stress tested by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Banks in China are mostly state run and are stress tested by the national banking authority.\n\nGlobal Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) are determined based on four main criteria: (a) size, (b) cross-jurisdiction activity, (c) complexity, and (d) substitutability. The list of G-SIBs is published annually by the Financial Stability Board (FSB). The G-SIBs must maintain a higher capital level – capital surcharge – compared to other banks.\n\nIn November 2013, the FSB updated the list of G-SIBs, and the following banks were included: Bank of America, Bank of China, Bank of New York Mellon, Barclays, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Groupe BPCE, Crédit Agricole, HSBC, ING Bank, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, JPMorgan Chase, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Mizuho Financial Group, Morgan Stanley, Nordea, Royal Bank of Scotland, Banco Santander, Société Générale, Standard Chartered, State Street, Sumitomo Mitsui FG, UBS, UniCredit, Wells Fargo.\n\nCompared with the group of G-SIBs published in 2011, three banks have been added: BBVA, Standard Chartered and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited; and three banks removed: Dexia, as it is undergoing an orderly resolution process, and Commerzbank and Lloyds, as result of a decline in their global systemic importance.\n\nIn the USA, the largest banks are regulated by the Federal Reserve (FRB) and the Office of the Comptroller of Currency (OCC). These regulators set the selection criteria, establish hypothetical adverse scenarios and oversee the annual tests. 19 banks operating in the U.S. (at the top tier) have been subject to such testing since 2009. Banks showing difficulty under the stress tests are required to postpone share buybacks, curtail dividend plans and if necessary raise additional capital financing.\n\nIn December 2014, the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) issued a long-awaited proposal to impose additional capital requirements on the U.S.’s global systemically important banks (G-SIBs). The proposal implements the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s (BCBS) G-SIB capital surcharge framework that was finalized in 2011, but also proposes changes to BCBS’s calculation methodology resulting in significantly higher surcharges for US G-SIBs compared with their global peers. The proposal has not been finalized, and leading experts such a PwC believe it will be finalized in 2015.\n\nThe proposal, which industry experts expect will be finalized in 2015, requires U.S. G-SIBs to hold additional capital (Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) as a percentage of Risk Weighted Assets (RWA)) equal to the greater of the amount calculated under two methods. The first method is consistent with BCBS’s framework,and calculates the amount of extra capital to be held based on the G-SIB’s size, interconnectedness,cross-jurisdictional activity, substitutability, and complexity. The second method is introduced by the U.S. proposal, and uses similar inputs but replaces the substitutability element with a measure based on a G-SIB’s reliance on short-term wholesale funding (STWF).\n\nStress testing has limited effectiveness in risk management. Dexia passed the European stress tests in 2011. Two months later it requested a €90 billion bailout guarantee. Goldfield, a former Senior Partner of Goldman Sachs and Economics Professors, Jeremy Bulow at Stanford and Paul Klemperer at Oxford, argue that \"Equity Recourse Notes\"' (ERNs), similar in some ways to contingent convertible debt, (CoCos), should be used by all banks rated SIFI, to replace non-deposit existing unsecured debt. \"ERNs would be long-term bonds with the feature that any interest or principal payable on a date when the stock price is lower than a pre-specified price would be paid in stock at that pre-specified price.\" Through ERNs, distressed banks would have access to much needed equity as willing investors purchase tranches of ERNs similar to pooling tranches of subprime mortgages. In this case however, the market, not the public takes the risks. Banking can be pro-cyclical by contributing to booms and busts. Stressed banks become reluctant to lend since they are often unable to raise capital equity through new investors. claim that ERNs would provide a \"counterweight against pro-cyclicality.\"\n\nThe Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires that bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more and nonbank financial companies designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council for supervision by the Federal Reserve submit resolution plans annually to the Federal Reserve (FRB) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Each plan, commonly known as a living will, must describe the company's strategy for rapid and orderly resolution under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the company.\n\nStarting in 2014 Category 2 firms will be required to submit resolution plans while category 1 firms will submit their 3rd resolution plans.\n\nThe resolution plan requirement under the Dodd Frank Act in Section 165(d), is in addition to the FDIC's requirement of a separate covered insured depository institution (\"CIDI\") plan for CIDIs of large bank holding companies. The FDIC requires a separate CIDI resolution plan for US insured depositories with assets of $50 billion or more. Most of the largest, most complex BHCs are subject to both rules, requiring them to file a 165(d) resolution plan for the BHC that includes the BHC’s core businesses and its most significant subsidiaries (i.e., “material entities”), as well as one or more CIDI plans depending on the number of US bank subsidiaries of the BHC that meet the $50 billion asset threshold. Similar to the assumptions made for resolution plans, the FDIC recently issued assumptions to be made in CIDI plans including the assumption that the CIDI will fail.\n\nWhen a company enters insolvency (either through bankruptcy or FDIC receivership), an automatic stay is triggered that generally prohibits creditors and counterparties from terminating, offsetting against collateral, or taking any other mitigating action with respect to their outstanding contracts with the insolvent company. However, under US law counterparties to QFCs are exempt from this stay and may usually begin to exercise their contractual rights after the close of business the next day. In case of receivership, the FDIC must decide within this time period whether to transfer the QFC to another institution, retain the QFC and allow the counterparty to terminate it, or repudiate the QFC and pay out the counterparty.\n\nIn January 2015, the US Secretary of Treasury issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (“NPR”) that would establish new recordkeeping requirements for Qualified Financial Contracts (“QFCs”). The NPR requires US systemically important financial institutions (“SIFIs”) and certain of their affiliates to maintain specific information electronically on end-of-day QFC positions, and to be able to provide this information to regulators within 24 hours if requested. The NPR is intended to help the FDIC with decision-making by making available detailed information on a failed company’s QFCs, given the FDIC’s expanded receivership powers under Dodd-Frank’s Orderly Liquidation Authority (“OLA”).\n\nThe concept of a systemically important financial institution in the U.S. extends well beyond traditional banks and is often included under the term Non-banking financial company. It includes large hedge funds and traders, large insurance companies, and various and sundry systemically important financial market utilities. For historical background see Subprime mortgage crisis solutions debate#Arguments for a systemic risk regulator\n\nRegarding which entities will be so designated the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 contains the following in TITLE I—FINANCIAL STABILITY, Subtitle A—Financial Stability Oversight Council, Sec. 113. \"Authority to require supervision and regulation of certain nonbank financial companies\" (2) considerations:\n\nFSOC subsequently issued clarification under Final Rule on Authority to Designate Financial Market Utilities as Systemically Important, which includes the following chart recasting the above statutory requirements into a six-category FSOC analytical framework including: \n\nThe following are quotes from the FSOC final rule regarding each element of the six factor framework.\n\nInterconnectedness\nInterconnectedness captures direct or indirect linkages between financial companies that may be conduits for the transmission of the effects resulting from a nonbank financial company's material financial distress or activities.\n\nSubstitutability\nSubstitutability captures the extent to which other firms could provide similar financial services in a timely manner at a similar price and quantity if a nonbank financial company withdraws from a particular market. Substitutability also captures situations in which a nonbank financial company is the primary or dominant provider of services in a market that the Council determines to be essential to U.S. financial stability.\n\nSize\nSize captures the amount of financial services or financial intermediation that a nonbank financial company provides. Size also may affect the extent to which the effects of a nonbank financial company's financial distress are transmitted to other firms and to the financial system.\n\nLeverage\nLeverage captures a company's exposure or risk in relation to its equity capital. Leverage amplifies a company's risk of financial distress in two ways. First, by increasing a company's exposure relative to capital, leverage raises the likelihood that a company will suffer losses exceeding its capital. Second, by increasing the size of a company's liabilities, leverage raises a company's dependence on its creditors' willingness and ability to fund its balance sheet. Leverage can also amplify the impact of a company's distress on other companies, both directly, by increasing the amount of exposure that other firms have to the company, and indirectly, by increasing the size of any asset liquidation that the company is forced to undertake as it comes under financial pressure. Leverage can be measured by the ratio of assets to capital, but it can also be defined in terms of risk, as a measure of economic risk relative to capital. The latter measurement can better capture the effect of derivatives and other products with embedded leverage on the risk undertaken by a nonbank financial company.\n\nLiquidity risk and maturity mismatch\nLiquidity risk generally refers to the risk that a company may not have sufficient funding to satisfy its short-term needs, either through its cash flows, maturing assets, or assets salable at prices equivalent to book value, or through its ability to access funding markets. For example, if a company holds assets that are illiquid or that are subject to significant decreases in market value during times of market stress, the company may be unable to liquidate its assets effectively in response to a loss of funding. In order to assess liquidity, the Council may examine a nonbank financial company's assets to determine if it possesses cash instruments or readily marketable securities, such as Treasury securities, which could reasonably be expected to have a liquid market in times of distress. The Council may also review a nonbank financial company's debt profile to determine if it has adequate long-term funding, or can otherwise mitigate liquidity risk. Liquidity problems also can arise from a company's inability to roll maturing debt or to satisfy margin calls, and from demands for additional collateral, depositor withdrawals, draws on committed lines, and other potential draws on liquidity.\n\nA maturity mismatch generally refers to the difference between the maturities of a company's assets and liabilities. A maturity mismatch affects a company's ability to survive a period of stress that may limit its access to funding and to withstand shocks in the yield curve. For example, if a company relies on short-term funding to finance longer-term positions, it will be subject to significant refunding risk that may force it to sell assets at low market prices or potentially suffer through significant margin pressure. However, maturity mismatches are not confined to the use of short-term liabilities and can exist at any point in the maturity schedule of a nonbank financial company's assets and liabilities.\n\nExisting regulatory scrutiny\nThe Council will consider the extent to which nonbank financial companies are already subject to regulation, including the consistency of that regulation across nonbank financial companies within a sector, across different sectors, and providing similar services, and the statutory authority of those regulators.\n\n\nAegon replaced Assicurazioni Generali on the list in November 2015.\n\nFSB plan to expand the above list also to include G-SII status for the world's largest reinsurers, pending a further development of the G-SII assessment methodology, to be finalized by IAIS in November 2015. The revised G-SII assessment methodology will be applied from 2016.\n\nIn October 2014, IAIS published the first-ever global insurance capital standard entitled \"Basic Capital Requirements (BCR)\", to apply to all group activities (incl. non-insurance activities) of G-SIIs, as a foundation for the \"Higher Loss Absorbency (HLA)\" requirements. Beginning in 2015, the BCR ratio will be reported on a confidential basis to group-wide supervisors - and be shared with the IAIS for purposes of refining the BCR as necessary. IAIS currently work to develop the methodology for the introduction of HLA requirements, to be published by end-2015, and to be applied starting from January 2019 towards those G-SIIs being identified in November 2017. From January 2019, all G-SIIs will be required to hold capital no lower than the BCR plus HLA. Subjecting insurers to enhanced supervisory oversight is not up to FSB/IAIS, but up to individual jurisdictions.\n\nWhen MetLife—the United States’s largest life insurer—was designated as a systemically important institution in late 2014 by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) which had been established by the Dodd-Frank Act, they challenged the designation as \"arbitrary and capricious\" in federal court and won. In April 2016 when judge Rosemary Collyer, found in favor of Metlife in a Federal District Court decision, the value of MetLife stocks rose sharply. On January 23, 2018 a panel of judges on the US Court of Appeals dropped the appeal after the Financial Stability Oversight Council dropped the appeal at the request of the Trump administration.\n\nThe U.S. government legislation defines the term \"financial market utilities\" (FMU) for other organizations that play a key part in financial markets such as clearing houses settlement systems. They are entities whose failure or disruption could threaten the stability of the financial system.\n\nIt is widely anticipated that the Financial Stability Oversight Council will eventually designate certain significant asset managers as nonbank systematically important financial institutions (Nonbank SIFIs). The FSOC recently asked the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Research (OFR) to undertake a study that provides data and analysis on the asset management industry. The study analyzed the industry and describes potential threats to U.S. financial stability from vulnerabilities of asset managers. The study suggested the industry’s activities as a whole make it systemically important and may pose a risk to financial stability. Furthermore, it identified the extent of assets managed by the major industry players. This request for the study is considered by some as a first step in by the FSOC in reviewing the industry and individual player to determine which are systematically important. Once designated as systematically important those entities will be subject to additional oversight and regulatory requirements.\n\nIn 2013, the Treasury Department's Office of Financial Research released its report on \"Asset Management and Financial Stability\", the central conclusion was that the activities of the asset management industry as a whole make it systemically important and may pose a risk to US financial stability. Furthermore, in 2014 the Financial Stability Board and the International Organization of Securities Commissions issued the Consultative Document which proposed methodologies for identifying globally active systemically important investment funds. Both reports further the conclusion that is likely the U.S. Financial Stability Oversight Council will designate a few large US asset managers as systemically important.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23459977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23459977", "title": "Thomas v. Winchester", "text": "Thomas v. Winchester\n\nThomas v. Winchester, 6 N.Y. 397 (1852), which established the \"imminent danger to human life\" doctrine, was at the head of the cases in assaulting the protective wall of privity in the tort field. Subsequent examples include: \"MacPherson v. Buick Motor Co.\", \"Goldberg v. Kollsman Instrument Corp.\", and finally, Judge Jones's landmark holding in \"Codling v. Paglia\", in which the Court demolished what was left of the privity barrier in tort cases by adopting the doctrine of strict products liability.\n\nIn \"Thomas v. Winchester\", the Court, departing from the old common law rule in \"Winterbottom v. Wright\", held that a commercial packager of a poison falsely labeled as harmless medicine, who sold it to a druggist who, in turn, sold it to the plaintiff who then ingested it should be liable for her acute distress. The Court found a way around the lack of privity between the consumer and the packager by adopting the rule that a party who puts falsely labeled poison into the market and thus \"puts human life in imminent danger\" should respond in damages to the ultimate consumer.\n"}
{"id": "14707694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14707694", "title": "Timeline of Colombia–Nicaragua relations", "text": "Timeline of Colombia–Nicaragua relations\n\nThis is a timeline of events related to the Colombia-Nicaragua relations. \n\n\"This timeline is incomplete; some important events may be missing. Please help add to it.\"\n\nThe 82nd parallel north must be close to the North Pole. Correct is 82nd Meridian West.\n\n"}
{"id": "30320071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30320071", "title": "Tourist and Heritage Railways Act", "text": "Tourist and Heritage Railways Act\n\nThe Tourist and Heritage Railways Act 2010 (the THR Act) is a law enacted by the Parliament of the State of Victoria, Australia and is the prime statute regulating the activities of tourist and heritage rail operators in the State. The Act covers the bulk of Victoria's operational tourist and heritage railways including many heavy and light rail operations and tramways, predominantly in regional areas of Victoria.\n\nThe Tourist and Heritage Railways Act and the supporting regulations were developed by the Transport Legislation Review conducted by the Department of Transport. The Act was the first dedicated statute in Victoria for the tourist and heritage railways sector (the THR sector) and is also the only dedicated principal statute for the THR sector in Australia. The Act was passed in late 2010 and came into force on 1 October 2011. It replaced provisions regulating the THR sector in the Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act 1983.\n\nThe Tourist and Heritage Railways Act is part of the transport policy and legislation framework in Victoria headed by the Transport Integration Act. The responsible Minister for the Act is the Minister for Public Transport, the Hon Terry Mulder MLA.\n\nThe broad purpose of the Act is \". . . to promote the long term viability of the tourist and heritage railway sector and promote an improvement in the operations of that sector as part of an integrated and sustainable transport system . . .\"\n\nThe Act establishes a regulatory scheme with the following key elements:\n\nThe Tourist and Heritage Railways Act and the background to its development and passage was summarised by Ian Shepherd, Kate Williams and Jenny Gabriele in an article in the Railway Gazette International. The authors noted that \"With around 60 tourist and heritage railways or tramways, Australia has more lines per capita that Europe or the USA. A third of them are in Victoria, where Australia's railway preservation movement started with the formation of the Puffing Billy Preservation Society in 1955.\" The tourist and heritage railways sector in Victoria today consists of organisations which operate, restore and preserve tourist and heritage railways and tramways. It is estimated that around 3,500 Victorians are actively involved in the industry. As of 1 January 2011 there were around 22 organisations across the State although only 17 are expected to be subject to the new statute. The THR organisations operate in various locations across Victoria, primarily in regional areas. The railways attract tourism and provide economic benefits to the regional areas where they operate with an estimated half a million people visiting the railways each year.\n\nThe Act is divided into seven parts: \n\nThe Act regulates the majority of the operational tourist and heritage railways in Victoria. To be covered by the Act, a tourist and heritage railway operator must be a not for profit organisation that provides historical and heritage-related rail services mostly for tourists and mostly in Victoria. The following railways are covered by the Act:\n\n\nThe Act does not apply to Victoria's most popular tourist and heritage railway, Puffing Billy. Instead, the Puffing Billy Railway is regulated by its own statute, the Emerald Tourist Railway Act 1977. The Tourist and Heritage Railways Act does also not extend to static rail exhibits such as the Williamstown Rail Museum.\n\nThe prime regulator of the tourist and heritage railway sector in Victoria is the Director, Transport Safety or Transport Safety Victoria (TSV). The prime regulators of the tourist and heritage railway sector in Victoria are VicTrack and the Public Transport Development Authority (trading as Public Transport Victoria).\n\nVicTrack holds all State owned rail land, infrastructure and assets. VicTrack leases assets to tourist and heritage railway operators when they are not required for mainstream transport operations and therefore non operational. Public Transport Victoria provides general coordination and support to the THR sector and is a regulator under the Act.\n\nVicTrack is established under the Transport Integration Act and is required under that Act to \". . . provide or enable access to the non-operational transport-related land, infrastructure or assets where this supports the transport system . . . \". VicTrack is charged with considering providing this access for a variety of reasons including for \". . . tourist and heritage rail operations . . .\" and \". . . through the granting of leases for business or community purposes . . . \". As part of this function, VicTrack is required to collaborate with the Secretary of the Department of Transport, or more particularly the Public Transport Victoria, in protecting land, infrastructure and assets which are registered on the Victorian Heritage Register. VicTrack must do this \". . . whilst ensuring that reasonable access is provided for public enjoyment and historical appreciation and that support is provided to tourist and heritage operators . . . \".\n\nPart 2 of the Act provides that the Director must appoint a person to be the Tourist and Heritage Railway Registrar. The Registrar is the key administrator for the purposes of the Act. The function of the Registrar is to compile and maintain an asset register for the sector, a register of lease agreements granted by VicTrack and a group register for THR railway groups.\n\nThe Act enables Public Transport Victoria to establish an advisory committee to provide advice to PTV on—\n\nThe number of members and the composition of the advisory committee is set out in regulations made under the Act.\n\nPart 3 of the Tourist and Heritage Railways Act provides for establishment and operation of a tourist and heritage rail asset register. The broad purpose of the Part is to gather and maintain accurate information about THR assets. The register is required to be established by Public Transport Victoria and divided into three divisions listing assets owned by the State, assets owned by custodians and assets owned by persons other than the State or the custodian which the owner has elected to include on the register. The remainder of the provisions regulate the information to be included in the register, the form of the register and access, currency and accuracy of information, inspection of assets and the relationship of the register to the separate Victorian Heritage Register established under the Heritage Act 1995.\n\nPart 4 of the Act sets out a scheme to facilitate the leasing of land and assets by VicTrack for tourist and heritage railways purposes. The Act provides power for VicTrack to grant leases of land which must include a range of matters including a description of the land and fixtures, the term of the lease, the amount of rent (if payable), maintenance and insurance arrangements, subleasing rights or restrictions, reclamation rights and other matters. Similar provision is made for the leasing of assets and these also require the lease to include certain minimum terms. The Part also imposes a duty on VicTrack to provide copies of leases to the Registrar who must keep a register of the agreements and details about duration and renewal.\n\nPart 5 of the Act provides for a voluntary accreditation scheme for tourist and heritage railway operators. Public Transport Victoria is required to establish the scheme and a register known as the Tourist and Heritage Railway Group Register. The purpose of the scheme is to enable operators which meet certain criteria to register in order to demonstrate their commitment to best business practice and continuous improvement and to access programs and initiatives made available under the scheme.\n\nThe other provisions in the Part regulate the matters to be recorded in the register, applications for registration, registration itself, changes of details, removal from the register and rights of review to the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal concerning decisions made by the Registrar.\n\nThe Act contains two general provisions in Part 6. The first provision confirms that THR operators are not required to fence railways or contribute to fencing costs and that operators are not liable for any damage which may be caused by the railway not being fenced. The remaining and final provision in the Act confers power on the Governor in Council to make regulations to support the Act including in relation to the asset register, criteria for registration on the group register, fees for registration, safety in connection with TH railways, powers of THR operators, conduct requirements, trespassing and interference with equipment, fixtures and other things.\n\nThe development of the proposal for the Tourist and Heritage Railways Act was managed by the Department of Transport in Victoria as part of its Transport Legislation Review project.\n\nThe Department commenced the process by holding an inter Government agency workshop in June 2008 followed by workshops with the THR sector in August of that year. This was followed by a period of research and policy development leading into further workshops and target consultation with the industry in April 2010 where new regulatory concepts were outlined in detail. Ultimately, the proposal for a new regulatory scheme for the tourist and heritage railways sector was presented to the Victorian Parliament as proposed legislation in late July 2010.\n\nThe Tourist and Heritage Railways Act was introduced into the upper house of the Victorian Parliament, the Legislative Council, as the Tourist and Heritage Railways Bill 2010. The responsible Minister for the proposal was the Minister for Public Transport, the Hon Martin Pakula MLC. The Hon Justin Madden MLC, the Minister for Planning, moved the second reading of the Bill on 27 July 2010 on behalf of the Public Transport Minister.\n\nThe Minister set the context for the Bill in his second reading speech in support of the Bill as follows:\n\nThe Tourist and Heritage Railways Bill was strongly supported by the Opposition parties and other members during its passage through the Victorian Parliament.\n\nThe lead Liberal Party speaker in the first house of passage the Legislative Council, David Koch MLC, observed that—\n\nThe Bill was passed by the Legislative Council on 12 August 2010 after a short debate and introduced into the lower house, the Legislative Assembly, on the same day.\n\nSupport from the Opposition parties for the Bill was equally strong in the Legislative Assembly. The lead speaker in the Legislative Assembly, the then Shadow Transport Minister and now the Minister for Public Transport in the Victorian Government, Terry Mulder MP, commented that—\n\nAfter several procedural delays, the Tourist and Heritage Railways Bill was ultimately passed by the Victorian Parliament on 7 October 2010. The Bill received the Royal Assent on 19 October 2010 to become the Tourist and Heritage Railways Act 2010.\n\nThe Tourist and Heritage Railways Act was proclaimed to commence on 1 October 2011. The Tourist and Heritage Railways Regulations 2011 were made to support the operation of the Act after being developed by the Department of Transport and commenced on the same day. They were released for public comment and then approved by the Minister and presented to the Governor in Council for making and commencement.\n\nThe safety compliance of most rail transport in Victoria is regulated under the Rail Safety Act 2006. The main railways regulated include the Melbourne heavy rail system, the Melbourne tram and light rail network, Victoria's regional standard and broad gauge rail networks and regional tourist and heritage railways. Operators are subject to safety duties, a requirement to be accredited and a range of compliance sanctions. Railways excluded from coverage under the Act include railways in mines, amusement and theme park railways and slipways.\n\nThe safety regulator for the application and enforcement of the Rail Safety Act 2006 and therefore the oversight of the safety performance of the tourist and heritage rail sector in Victoria is the Director, Transport Safety. The Director operates under the trading name, Transport Safety Victoria. The office of the Director is established under the Transport Integration Act 2010 and is independent of the Department of Transport and responsible Ministers except in limited circumstances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46212073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46212073", "title": "VinylPlus", "text": "VinylPlus\n\nVinylPlus was founded by the European Council of Vinyl Manufacturers (ECVM), the European Stabiliser Producers Association (ESPA), European Plasticisers and the European Plastics Converters (EuPC) in 2011 when the PVC industry renewed a previous initiative called Vinyl 2010. VinylPlus is a ten-year, industry-wide voluntary commitment to develop more ecologically responsible ways to produce, use and recycle PVC. The programme aligns with the principles and targets of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the circular economy.\n\nVinylPlus includes all European PVC industry sectors: resin and additives producers, as well as plastics converters and recyclers. It covers the EU-28 plus Norway and Switzerland.\n\nVinylPlus is included in the Rio+20 Registry of Commitments, and is a member of the Green Industry Platform, the global partnership led by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and the United Nations Environment Platform Programme (UNEP). VinylPlus is also registered as a partner on the UN Partnerships for SDGs platform where it is recognised as fulfilling the SMART criteria. \n\nVinylPlus succeeded Vinyl 2010, which was the European PVC industry’s first voluntary commitment. Vinyl 2010 was set up in 2000 around the principles of Responsible Care adopted by the European chemicals industry in the 1980s . Its programme aimed to shift the PVC industry to a more sustainable model by improving recycling and substituting hazardous additives.\n\nAt the same time, the European Union also started addressing environmental concerns about plastics, notably developing the Waste Framework Directive (EU Directive 2008/98/EC), which laid down key EU recycling rules.\n\nVinyl 2010 also set up a monitoring committee, which was kept upon the creation of VinylPlus. The committee was designed as an independent verification of the programme’s activities, and includes representatives from the European Commission, the European Parliament, trade unions, consumer associations, academia and members of the European \n\nVinylPlus publishes an annual Progress Report summarising progress and data. Progress is measured against each of the five sustainability challenges identified for PVC. All information included in the report is presented to the Monitoring Committee and independently audited by third parties.\n\nThe VinylPlus Product Label was launched in 2018 as an identification tool.\n\nOne aspect of the programme is to Improve recycling figures.\n\nVinylPlus organises an annual forum: The VinylPlus Sustainability Forum. The first one took place in Istanbul in 2013. The event aims to encourage dialogue on sustainability by assembling representatives from the PVC industry, policy makers, consumer groups, retailers, architects, designers, recyclers and NGOs. The themes from past forums have been:\n\n\nVinylPlus’s management Board represents all European PVC industry sectors: resin and additives producers, as well as plastics converters. The Monitoring Committee offers guidance and advice, while ensuring an independent evaluation of the initiatives undertaken in the Voluntary Commitment. The Monitoring Committee currently includes representatives from the European Commission, the European Parliament, trade unions, consumer associations and academia, as well as representatives from the European PVC industry. The Monitoring Committee’s stated goal is to ensure VinylPlus’s transparency, participation and accountability. \n\nThe Recovinyl programme was set up in 2003 as part of Vinyl 2010’s commitment. Its original mission was to advance waste collection and recycling schemes. When the Vinyl 2010 programme ended, it was given a dual role under the new VinylPlus initiative. While Recovinyl still encourages PVC recycling, it also aims to optimise resource efficiency by acting as an intermediary between recyclers and converters.\n\nThe Vinyl Foundation is the non-profit organisation that manages the funds from the European PVC product manufacturers, compounders and raw material traders that support VinylPlus.\n"}
