{"id": "3816051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3816051", "title": "Accreditation mill", "text": "Accreditation mill\n\nAn accreditation mill is an organization that purports to award educational accreditation to higher education institutions without having government authority or recognition from mainstream academia to operate as an accreditor. Implicit in the terminology is the assumption that the \"mill\" has low standards (or no standards) for such accreditation. Accreditation mills are much like diploma mills, and in many cases are closely associated with diploma mills. The \"accreditation\" they supply has no legal or academic value, but is used in diploma mill marketing to help attract students.\n\nSome institutions obtain accreditation from an independent group with low standards. In other cases, the institution sets up its own seemingly independent accreditation board and then accredits itself. This gives the appearance that an outside group has approved the education that is offered at the school.\n\nIn many countries, accreditation is a government function. In the United States, governments normally do not accredit academic institutions, but federal education authorities recognize about 18 private accrediting organizations for institutional accreditation of higher education institutions and more than 60 other private organizations for accreditation of specific educational programs. While standards vary from organization to organization, without recognition from the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) (a non-governmental organization) or the United States Department of Education, the claims made by independent groups hold no value in the academic community.\n\nCHEA has published a list of attributes of accreditation mills to help consumers identify them. According to CHEA, an accreditation operation might be a \"mill\" if it:\nVerifile's Accredibase notes that some accreditation mills do not reveal their locations, which makes it difficult to determine whether they are legitimate. Some other mills have been found to use the same addresses as the education providers that claim accreditation from them.\n\nTo help consumers avoid diploma mills and accreditation mills, several national and international bodies publish lists of recognized accreditors and accredited educational institutions, as well as accreditors that are known to lack the necessary legal authority or recognition, and higher education providers known to lack accreditation. The United States organization CHEA maintains an international directory of education ministries and other recognized higher education quality assurance bodies worldwide. The 2007 version of that directory lists 467 recognized bodies in 175 countries.\n\nA proposal for legislation that was announced in the U.S. House of Representatives in January 2010 would have inserted a definition of \"accreditation mill\" into U.S. law. The proposal, sponsored by Congressmen Timothy Bishop of New York and Michael Castle of Delaware, would have defined the term to mean \"an education or corporate organization that offers a form of educational recognition or accreditation, for a fee or free of charge, that extend[s] a permanent recognition or accreditation status to an institution with few or no requirements for subsequent periodic reviews; (B) publish[es] a list of institutions and programs recognized or accredited by such organization that includes institutions and programs that did not apply for or otherwise request such recognition or accreditation by the organization; or (C) lack[s] national recognition by the Secretary of Education or the Council for Higher Education Accreditation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1226875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1226875", "title": "Antillean Creole", "text": "Antillean Creole\n\nAntillean Creole is a French-based creole, which is primarily spoken in the Lesser Antilles. Its grammar and vocabulary include elements of Carib and African languages.\n\nAntillean Creole is related to Haitian Creole but has a number of distinctive features; however, they are mutually intelligible. The language was formerly more widely spoken in the Lesser Antilles, but its number of speakers is declining in Trinidad and Tobago and Grenada. While the islands of Dominica and Saint Lucia are officially English-speaking, there are efforts to preserve the use of Antillean Creole, as well as in Trinidad and Tobago and its neighbour, Venezuela. In recent decades, Creole has gone from being seen as a sign of lower socio-economic status, banned in school playgrounds, to a mark of national pride.\n\nSince the 1970s, there has been a literary revival of Creole in the French-speaking islands of the Lesser Antilles, with writers such as Raphaël Confiant and Monchoachi employing the language. Edouard Glissant has written theoretically and poetically about its significance and its history.\n\nAntillean Creole is spoken natively, to varying degrees, in Dominica, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Îles des Saintes, Martinique, Saint-Barthélemy (St. Barts), Saint Lucia, French Guiana, Trinidad and Tobago and Venezuela (mainly in Macuro, Güiria and El Callao Municipality). Dominican, Grenadian, St. Lucian, Trinidadian, Brazilian (Lanc-Patuá) and Venezuelan speakers of Antillean Creole call the language \"patois\". It is also spoken in various Creole-speaking immigrant communities in the United States Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, and the island of Saint Martin.\n\nAntillean Creole has approximately 1 million speakers and is a means of communication for migrant populations traveling between neighbouring English- and French-speaking territories.\n\nPierre Belain d'Esnambuc was a French trader and adventurer in the Caribbean who established the first permanent French colony, Saint-Pierre, on the island of Martinique in 1635. Belain sailed to the Caribbean in 1625, hoping to establish a French settlement on the island of St. Christopher (St. Kitts). In 1626, he returned to France, where he won the support of Cardinal Richelieu to establish French colonies in the region. Richelieu became a shareholder in the Compagnie de Saint-Christophe, created to accomplish that with d'Esnambuc at its head. The company was not particularly successful, and Richelieu had it reorganised as the Compagnie des Îles de l'Amérique. In 1635, d'Esnambuc sailed to Martinique with 100 French settlers to clear land for sugarcane plantations.\n\nAfter six months on Martinique, d'Esnambuc returned to St. Christopher, where he soon died prematurely in 1636, leaving the company and Martinique in the hands of his nephew, Du Parquet. His nephew, Jacques Dyel du Parquet, inherited d'Esnambuc's authority over the French settlements in the Caribbean. Dyel du Parquet became governor of the island. He remained in Martinique and did not concern himself with the other islands.\n\nThe French permanently settled on Martinique and Guadeloupe after being driven off Saint Kitts and Nevis (\"Saint-Christophe\" in French) by the British. Fort Royal (now Fort-de-France) on Martinique was a major port for French battle ships in the region from which the French were able to explore the region. In 1638, Dyel du Parquet decided to have Fort Saint Louis built to protect the city against enemy attacks. From Fort Royal, Martinique, Du Parquet proceeded south in search for new territories, established the first settlement in Saint Lucia in 1643 and headed an expedition that established a French settlement in Grenada in 1649.\n\nDespite the long history of British rule, Grenada's French heritage is still evident by the number of French loanwords in Grenadian Creole and the French-style buildings, cuisine and placenames (Petit Martinique, Martinique Channel, etc.)\n\nIn 1642, the Compagnie des Îles de l'Amérique received a 20-year extension of its charter. The king would name the governor general of the company, and the company would name the governors of the various islands. However, by the late 1640s, Cardinal Mazarin had little interest in colonial affairs, and the company languished. In 1651, it dissolved itself, selling its exploitation rights to various parties. The Du Paquet family bought Martinique, Grenada and Saint Lucia for 60,000 livres. The sieur d'Houël bought Guadeloupe, Marie-Galante, La Desirade and the Saintes. The Knights of Malta bought Saint Barthélemy and Saint Martin, which were made dependencies of Guadeloupe.\n\nIn 1665, the Knights sold the islands that they had acquired to the Compagnie des Indes occidentales, formed one year earlier.\n\nDominica is a former French and British colony in the Eastern Caribbean, about halfway between the French islands of Guadeloupe (to the north) and Martinique (to the south). Christopher Columbus named the island after the day of the week on which he spotted it, a Sunday (\"dies Dominica\" in Latin), on 3 November 1493. In the 100 years after Columbus's landing, Dominica remained isolated. At the time, it was inhabited by the Island Caribs, or Kalinago people. Over time, more settled there after they had been driven from surrounding islands, as European powers entered the region.\n\nIn 1690, French woodcutters from Martinique and Guadeloupe begin to set up timber camps to supply the French islands with wood and gradually become permanent settlers. France had a colony for several years and imported slaves from West Africa, Martinique and Guadeloupe to work on its plantations. The Antillean Creole language developed.\n\nFrance formally ceded possession of Dominica to Great Britain in 1763. The latter established a small colony on the island in 1805. As a result, Dominica uses English as an official language, but Antillean Creole is still spoken as a secondary language because of Dominica's location between the French-speaking departments of Guadeloupe and Martinique.\n\nIn Trinidad, the Spanish possessed the island but contributed little towards advancements, with El Dorado being their focus. Trinidad was perfect for its geographical location. Because Trinidad was considered underpopulated, Roume de St. Laurent, a Frenchman living in Grenada, was able to obtain a Cédula de Población from King Charles III of Spain on 4 November 1783.\n\nTrinidad's population jumped to over 15,000 by the end of 1789, from just under 1,400 in 1777. In 1797, Trinidad became a British crown colony, despite its French-speaking population.\n\nIn the slavery era, Africans were assigned to the slavery plantations in the French Antilles. The French of their slave masters and their native tongues were somewhat useless as a method of communication since they spoke different languages. As a result, they were forced to develop a new form of communication by relying on what they heard from their colonial masters and other slaves.\n\nSporadically, they would use words they thought they heard their colonial masters speak and combine them with their African expressions and sentence structure. Thus, new words were fashioned and given\nmeaning.\n\nGradually, the new method of communication among the slaves spread across the regions of the Caribbean. The creole languages (French for \"indigenous\") progressively grew into a distinct language.\nConsonants\n\n\nThe vocabulary of Antillean Creole is based mostly on French, with many contributions from West African languages, Spanish, English and Amerindian languages.\n\nThe Dominican Creole French is a creole French, which is the generally-spoken language in Dominica.\n\nIt is a subvariety of Antillean Creole, which is spoken in other islands of the Lesser Antilles and is very closely related to the varieties spoken in Martinique, Saint Lucia, Guadeloupe, Grenada and Trinidad and Tobago. The intelligibility rate with speakers of other varieties of Antillean Creole is almost 100%. Its syntactic, grammatical and lexical features are virtually identical to that of Martinican Creole, but like its Saint Lucian counterpart, it has more English loanwords than the Martinican variety. People who speak Haitian Creole can also understand Dominican Creole French. Even though there are a number of distinctive features, they are mutually intelligible.\n\nLike the other Caribbean Creoles, Dominican French Creole combines a syntax of African and Carib origin with a vocabulary primarily derived from French.\n\nThe Saint Lucian Creole French is a French-based creole that is the generally-spoken language in Saint Lucia.\n\nIt is a subvariety of Antillean Creole, which is spoken in other islands of the Lesser Antilles and is very closely related to the varieties spoken in Martinique, Dominica, Guadeloupe, Grenada and Trinidad and Tobago. Its syntactic, grammatical and lexical features are virtually identical to that of Martinican Creole.\n\nLike the other Caribbean creoles, Saint Lucian French Creole combines a syntax of African and Carib origin with a vocabulary primarily derived from French. In addition, many expressions reflect a Spanish influence in the language.\n\nThe language can be considered to be mutually intelligible with French creoles of the Lesser Antilles and is related to Haitian Creole, which has nonetheless a number of distinctive features.\n\nIt is still widely spoken in Saint Lucia. In the mid-19th century, migrants took the language with them to Panama, where it is now moribund.\n\nHistorically, French, or French Creole, was the language of the large majority of the inhabitants, slaves and estate owners. Though the new British administrators spoke English, French was still predominant.\n\nThe Grenadian Creole French is a variety of Antillean Creole French. In Grenada and among Grenadians, it is referred to as \"Patois\" or \"French Patois\". It was once the lingua franca in Grenada and was commonly heard as recently as 1930 when children in some rural areas could speak it. In the 21st century, it can be heard only among elderly speakers in a few small pockets of the country. They are becoming fewer and fewer because unlike St. Lucia and Dominica, which lie close to the French islands of Martinique and Guadeloupe, Grenada does not have French-speaking neighbours to keep the language alive.\n\nTrinidadian French Creole is a French Creole (Patois) of Trinidad spoken by descendants of the French Creole migrants from the French Antilles.\n\nThe Cedula of Population of 1783 laid the foundation and growth of the population of Trinidad. French planters with their slaves, free coloureds and mulattos, from the French Antilles of Martinique, Grenada, Guadeloupe and Dominica, migrated to Trinidad during the French Revolution. The immigrants establishing local communities of Blanchisseuse, Champs Fleurs, Paramin, Cascade, Carenage, Laventille, etc. Trinidad's population, which numbered less than 1,400 in 1777, soared to over 15,000 by the end of 1789.\n\nIn 1797, Trinidad became a British crown colony, with a French-speaking and Patois-speaking population. Today, Trinidadian French Creole can be found in regional pockets among the elders, particularly in the villages of Paramin and Lopinot.\n\n\nBelow are samples of St. Lucian Creole French taken from a folktale.\n\nPwenmyé ki pasé sé Konpè Kochon. I di, \"Konpè Lapen, sa ou ka fè la?\"\nKonpè Lapen di'y, \"Dé ti twou yanm ng'a (=mwen ka) fouyé bay ich mwen pou mwen bay ich mwen manjé.\"\nKonpè Kochon di, \"Mé, Konpè, ou kouyon, wi! Ou vlé di mwen sa kay fè yanm?\"\nAn English translation from the same source:\n\nFirst to pass was Konpè Kochon (\"Mister Pig\"). He said, \"Konpè Lapen (\"Mister Rabbit\"), what are you doing there?\"\nKonpè Lapen told him, \"I am digging a few holes to plant yams to feed my children.\"\nKonpè Kochon said, \"But, Konpè, you're too foolish! You mean to tell me you can grow yams there?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23230861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23230861", "title": "Arvind Gokhale", "text": "Arvind Gokhale\n\nAravind Gokhale (1919 - 1992) was a Marathi writer of short stories. He hailed from Maharashtra, India.\n\nAravind Gokhale received his M.Sc. in Botany from Bombay University. He received his M.S. in Agricultural Journalism from Wisconsin University. He taught and conducted research in Economic Botany for 20 years at the College of Agriculture in Poona. He later worked as a Fertilizer Executive with a firm in Bombay, The Dharamsi Morarji Chemical Co. Ltd. He lived in both Bombay (where he worked) and Poona (where his family lived).\n\nHe was one of the pioneers of the modern Marathi short story. He had written over 300 short stories in Marathi, collected in 20 books, by 1965. His stories have been translated in most of the Indian and European languages. He was the Editor of \"Pick of the Year\" a Marathi annual of short stories.\n\nHe received State Awards for three successive years for best short story collections.\n\nHe wrote numerous film-scripts, radio skits and a travelogue on the U.S.\n\nGokhale wrote 25 collections of his short stories. The following are some of them:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36423077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36423077", "title": "Bak Jungyang", "text": "Bak Jungyang\n\nBak Jungyang (, Hanja: 朴重陽; May 3, 1874 or 1872 — April 23, 1959) was a Korean Joseon and Japanese-ruled Korean bureaucrat, politician, liberal and social activist. He demolished the castle of Daegueup and the Old Gyungsangdo Provincial Office, and contributed to city planning and road maintenance in Daegu. also participated in the destruction the Castle of Jinju. He was a conscientious Japanese colonial supporter with pro-Japanese group ideology as well as an advocate for civil rights.\n\nBak went abroad to Japan to study and later returned to become a bureaucrat in his country. He was appointed as the Mayor of Daegu and the deputy Governor of Gyeongsangbuk-do from 1906 to 1907. Later, he succeeded sequentially in the positions of Governor of Phyeongannamto, Jeollanam-do, Gyeongsangbuk-do, Phyeonganpukto and Chungcheongnam-do. Bak was involved in the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1910 and opposed the March 1st Movement. He also founded the Refrain Club.\n\nBak was also Governor of Hwanghae-do from 1921 to 1923 and Chungcheongbuk-do Provinces from 1923 to 1925. Then, in 1928, he was reappointed Governor of Hwanghae-do province.\n\nBak was pro-Japanese, and was later named a collaborator after World War II. He was nicknamed Haeak (), Ilso (), and Wongeun (). He also had the Japanese names and Yamamoto Shin ().\n\nBak Jungyang was born on May 3, 1874/1872, in Junae in Yangju county, Gyeonggi province or Daegu, son of Bak Jeong-ho and Lady Lee of Jeonju clean. His birth year is unclear, according to one source his birth year is 1872 or 1874. The origin of his family is unknown. His father supervised a rent farm and leased it out as well. He had several brothers and sisters but they died early.\n\nIn his adolescence, he joined the Independence Club, but it was dispersed due to the repression of the Korean Empire. This caused Bak to be disappointed and left him with a bad feeling against the Korean Empire governments.\n\nIn March 1894, Korean Empire governments was employed and dispatch of some killer, to Japan and China. There was murdered Kim Ok-kyun, Sanghai in China, next dig up Kim's corpse and behead it. Bak was extreme hatred to Korean Empire governments and people of Korea.\n\nFrom an early age, he wanted to go abroad to Japan. In 1897, he was selected as a Korean state student to go abroad to study in Japan. Bak supported himself during his studies because his family was poor. From 1897 to 1900, he studied in the Aoyama middle school. In 1900, he entered Dokyo buki high school as a banking major. Then, he added a double-major in the Japanese police study there. After the graduation, Bak adopted Neo-Confucianism and the 'Theory of the national prosperity and the military power' from Ito Hirobumi.\n\nAt the time, he chose the Japanese name Yamamoto Shin. Bak also became a Japanese petty bureaucrat. He tried to introduce the parliamentary system to the Imperial Korean government, but the Korean government refused. but his tendinous refused to Korean empire governments. so since then to continuously he was conscientious pro-Japanese ideologists and politicians movements.\n\nIn 1903, he returned and passed the probation period as a civil officer of Imperial Korea. After returning to Korea, Bak continued to advocate a pro-Japanese position.\n\nIn 1903, Bak successfully filled various government posts, and was also appointed as a staff of the Public Administration Agency. In 1905, he served as a military interpreter during the Russo-Japanese War. In November 1905, he was appointed to the staff of the Farming, Commerce and Industry Department. He resigned when the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1905 was signed. On May 5, he was appointed as an engineer of the National Defense Department (군부;軍部) engineer, and accompanied Prince Yi Kang to go to Japan. Two months later, he returned to his country.\n\nIn 1906, Bak was promoted to Governor of Daegu County. Then, after a short period, he was promoted again to the Acting Governor of the Gyeongsangbuk-do. During the term, Bak tore down the castle of Daegueup without official permission He secretly hired Japanese workers to tear down the structure. also Bak was lay out a new street. In early 1906, he applied for permission from the Korean government, but it was refused. The government tried to punish him for the action, but he acquired protection from Ito Hirobumi. Later, he modernized the Daegu city planning and road maintenance.\n\nHe strove in building modern hospitals, medical schools and colleges, and successfully built the Dojin hospital and its affiliated medical school. He was also a supporter of the free press, including journals which satirized him. His idea was that the freedom of the press is a must to supervise the government.\n\nIn 1907, he became a governor of Phyeongannamto and Phyeonganpukto, and in 1910, the Governor of Chungcheongnam-do.\n\nWhen the Japan–Korea Treaty of 1910 was signed in August 1910, Bak remained as the Governor of Chungcheongnam-do until 1915. From 1916 to 1920, he was a member of Japanese Government-General of Korea's Privy Council. In 1919, he opposed the March 1st Movement, and founded the Refrain club on 6 April in response. Bak was hindrance and dissuade, advice of go home of demonstrato of March 1st Movement. His old friends Seo Jae-pil and Yun Chi-ho cut off relations with him due to this.\nHe was appointed as the Governor of Hwanghae Province in 1921, and the Governor of North Chungcheong Province in 1923 to 1925. After the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake, he appealed to the Japanese government to release the arrested Koreans, and asserted that the Koreans were not involved in the criminal cases which occurred during the earthquake. In November 1924, he was accused in a sex abuse scandal, but the accuser woman suddenly died; three years later, the charge against him was dismissed. In 1928, he was re-appointed as the Governor of Hwanghae Province.\n\nHe governed the civilians through a regulated bureaucracy system, often with warning and several days of confinement instead of punishment, and suppressed the power of the Japanese police and soldiers to harass civilians, even putting them in confinement as well. Sometimes, the bureaucrats were imprisoned, but the Japanese police never arrested him, because he was especially trusted by the Japanese Governor-General of Korea, which pleased many Joseon people.\n\nIn 1927 to 1939, he was a member of Japanese Government-General of Korea's Privy Council; and in 1936, the advisor of Japanese Government-General of Korea's Privy Council. Seven years later, he was elected as the vice-chairman of the council. In 1940, he changed name to Hochu Segeyo as per the Japanese Sōshi-kaimei.\n\nIn October 22, 1941, he was appointed as the adviser of the Fight-patriotic of Joseon Group, which merged with the Peoples Mind Alliance in January 1943. During the Asia-Pacific War, he contributed to encourage and comfort the Japanese troops, as in 1942 and 1943, when he was sent to console the Japanese troops stationed in Singapore. In 1943, he was appointed as Vice-Chairman of Japanese Government-General of Korea's Privy Council. On 3 April 1945, he was elected as a congressman in the House of Peers.\n\nDue to his cooperation with the Japanese Empire and the Japanese Governor-General of Korea, he was listed as a Pro-Japanese collaborators in Korea by the Institute for Research in Collaborationist Activities in 2008.\n\nKorea was liberated on August 15, 1945, after the end of World War II, but Bak stayed in Daegu. He mocked the Korean independence activists for talking about their heroic deeds in the independence battle.\n\nAfter October 1945, as some pro-Japanese group begged for their lives, he ridiculed Korean resistance activists. On January 1, 1949, he was arrested by the Police of National Traitor Special Punishment Committee and charged under the National Traitor Law. But, Bak maintained his innocence at the court and stood by his pro-Japanese beliefs.\n\nIn February 1949, he was released on bail due to bronchial pneumonia and asthma. Later, he continued to criticize President Syngman Rhee, Kim Gu, Lee See-yeong and Ham Tae-yeong as \"patrioteers\". In 1955, Rhee tried to confine Bak to a So-ju-yeong psychiatric hospital and Seoul Seongmo psychiatric hospital, but failed. Bak Jungyang died Chimsan Mountine, in Daegu on April 23, 1959 due to pneumonia. the cause of death is lung disease and Senile disease.\n\nOne version says he was an adopted son of Ito Hirobumi. but in 1948, he was speak to some press company, he was said to it's the lie, not adopted son of Ito Hirobumi and \"My respected teacher\".\n\nHis Wife Lee Ju-yeol and two sons. His first son Bak Munung was the succeeding mayor of Cheongdo, Cheongsong, Sangju, and Dalseong in North Gyeongsang Province in 1940s. second son Bak Mu-ung was early death.\n\nHis granddaughter and Bak Munung's daughter Bak Bu-nam (1931–2018), was a pediatrician and internist, she was a university professor at the College of Medicine of Kyungpook National University, Keimyung University. Also Lee Yeol-hye, husband of Bak Bu-nam. Lee Yeol-hye is a dentist and plastic surgeon, Lee was a university professor of College of Medicine of Kyungpook National University and nephew of poet Lee Sang-hwa and resistance activists Lee Sang-jeong, politician Lee Sang-baik.\n\nOther Bak Jung-yang's Japanese concubine, was birth some daughters.\n\nHe had a pet named Stick Mr. Bak(박작대기/박짝대기). The pet was named because Bak always carried a long stick, sometime called the \"Enlightened Stick\". he was randomly for imprison of Japanese or Korean peoples police. whereupon more people was highly delighted. also he was merciless flogging or attack was rudeness Japanese Government-General of Korea. bureaucracy and Japanese bureaucracy, judge. Also he was anything disadvantage not receives. bcause Japanese Government-General of Korea to more believe for him. his pet name \"Stick Mr. Park\" was buzzed-about more peoples for long time ago. always Park was without a hitch talk down Province Governor and chief of a district court, district judge.\n\nin 1900s and in January 24, 1949. during that time he was write a his diary regularly, this diary was 20box. Bak diary was capture papers of Police of National Traitor Special Punishment Committee. Bak was didn't get the diary back, Bak was write memoir \"Sulhoe\", copy paper of some diary and his memories.\n\n\nOne version says he was an adopted son of Ito Hirobumi.\nhis first son Park Mun-wung was successive to mayor of Cheongdo, Cheongsong, Sangju, Dalseong in North Gyeongsang Province in 1940s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1427364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1427364", "title": "Beta reader", "text": "Beta reader\n\nA beta reader is usually an unpaid test reader of an unreleased work of literature or other writing (similar to beta testing in software), who gives feedback from the point of view of an average reader to the author. A beta reader is not a professional and can therefore provide advice and comments in the opinions of an average reader. This feedback is used by the writer to fix remaining issues with plot, pacing, and consistency. The beta reader also serves as a sounding board to see if the book has had the intended emotional impact.\n\n\"Beta reader\" is an English term originally borrowed from the information technology/software industry where beta testers try to identify problems in a piece of computer software before its release.\n\nA \"proofreader\" usually only looks at grammar and spelling and is a paid professional. A \"critique partner\" is a trained writer who \"test reads\" from the perspective of an author, unlike a beta reader who has little or no experience with writing. A beta reader can also serve as an \"alpha reader\" when reading a book draft that is still without an ending or is completely unrevised. Typically, a beta reader reviews a draft that has gone through at least one revision.\n\n"}
{"id": "6615263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6615263", "title": "Bhisham Sahni", "text": "Bhisham Sahni\n\nBhisham Sahni (8 August 1915 – 11 July 2003) was a Hindi writer, playwright, and actor, most famous for his novel and television screenplay \"Tamas\" (\"Darkness, Ignorance\"), a powerful and passionate account of the Partition of India. He was awarded the Padma Bhushan for literature in 1998, and Sahitya Akademi Fellowship in 2002.\n\nHe was the younger brother of the noted Hindi film actor, Balraj Sahni.\nHe was the son of shree Babu Haribansal Sahni.\n\nBhisham Sahni was born on 8 August 1915 in Rawalpindi. He earned a master's degree in English Literature from Government College in Lahore, and a Ph.D from Punjab University, Chandigarh in 1958.\n\nHe joined the struggle for Indian independence. At the time of Partition he was an active member of the Indian National Congress, and organized relief work for the refugees when riots broke out in Rawalpindi in March 1947. \nIn 1948 Bhisham Sahni started working with the Indian People’s Theatre Association (IPTA), an organization with which his brother was already closely associated. He worked both as an actor and a director. As a result of his association with IPTA, he left the Congress and joined the Communist Party. Thereafter, he left Bombay for Punjab where he worked briefly as a lecturer, first in a college at Ambala and then at Khalsa College, Amritsar. At this time he was involved in organizing the Punjab College Teachers’ Union and also continued with IPTA work. In 1952 he moved to Delhi and was appointed Lecturer in English at Delhi College (now Zakir Husain College), University of Delhi.\n\nFrom 1956 to 1963 he worked as a translator at the Foreign Languages Publishing House in Moscow, and translated some important works into Hindi, including Lev Tolstoy’s short stories and his novel Resurrection. On his return to India Bhisham Sahni resumed teaching at Delhi College, and also edited the reputed literary magazine Nai Kahaniyan from 1965 to 1967. He retired from service in 1980. Sahni was fluent in Punjabi, English, Urdu, Sanskrit and Hindi.\nBhisham Sahni was associated with several literary and cultural organizations. He was General Secretary of the All India Progressive Writers Association (1975–85) and Acting General Secretary of the Afro-Asian Writer’ Association and was also associated with the editing of their journal Lotus. He was the founder and chairman of 'SAHMAT', an organisation promoting cross-cultural understanding, founded in memory of the murdered theatre artist and activist Safdar Hashmi.\n\nBhisham Sahni's epic work \"Tamas\" (Darkness, Ignorance 1974) is a novel based on the riots of 1947 Partition of India which he witnessed at Rawalpindi. \"Tamas\" portrays the horrors of senseless communal politics of violence and hatred; and the tragic aftermath – death, destruction, forced migration and the partition of a country. It has been translated to English, French, German, Japanese and many Indian languages including Tamil,Gujarati, Malayalam, Kashmiri, and Manipuri. \"Tamas\" won the 1975 Sahitya Akademi Award for literature and was later made into a television film in 1987 by Govind Nihalani. Two of his masterpiece stories, 'Pali' and 'Amritsar Aa Gaya Hai', are also based on the Partition.\n\nSahni's prolific career as a writer also included six other Hindi novels: Jharokhe (1967), Kadian (1971), Basanti (1979), Mayyadas Ki Madi (1987), Kunto (1993) and Neeloo, Nilima, Nilofar (2000)., over hundred short stories spread over ten collections of short stories, (including \"Bhagya Rekha\" (1953), \"Pahla patha\" (1956),Bhatakti Raakh (1966), Patrian (1973), Wang Chu (1978), Shobha Yatra (1981), Nishachar (1983), Pali(1989), and Daayan (1996) ; five plays including 'Hanush', 'Kabira Khada Bajar main', Madhavi', 'Muavze', 'Alamgeer', a collection of children's short stories \"Gulal ka keel\"'. But his novel named 'Mayyadas Ki Mari' (Mayyadas's Castle) was one of his finest literary creation, the backdrop of this narrative is historical and depicts the age when the Khalsa Raj was vanquished in Punjab and the British were taking over. This novel is a saga of changing social order and decadent set of values.\nHe wrote the screenplay for Kumar Shahani's film, \"Kasba\" (1991), which is based on Anton Chekhov's story, \"In the Gully\".\n\nBhisham Sahni wrote his autobiography \"Aaj ke Ateet\" (\"Today's Pasts\", Penguin 2016) and the biography of his brother Balraj Sahni, \"Balraj My Brother\" (English).\n\n\nBhisham Sahni was one of the most prolific writers of Hindi literature. \nKrishan Baldev Vaid, \"His voice, both as a writer and a man, was serene and pure and resonant with humane reassurances. His immense popularity was not a result of any pandering to vulgar tastes but a reward for his literary merits—his sharp wit, his gentle irony, his all-pervasive humour, his penetrating insight into character, his mastery as raconteur, and his profound grasp of the yearnings of the human heart.\n\nNoted Writer, Nirmal Verma, stated, \"If we see a long gallery of unmatched characters in his stories and novels, where each person is present with his class and family; pleasures and pains of his town and district; the whole world of perversions and contradictions; it is because the reservoir of his (Bhisham Sahni's) experience was vast and abundant. At the request of his father – would anyone believe? – he dabbled in business, in which he was a miserable failure. With his high-spirits and passion for life of the common people, he travelled through villages and towns of Punjab with the IPTA theatre group; then began to teach to earn a living; and then lived in the USSR for seven years as a Hindi translator. This sprawling reservoir of experience collected in the hustle-bustle of various occupations ultimately filtered down into his stories and novels, without which, as we realise today, the world of Hindi prose would have been deprived and desolate. The 'simplicity' of his work comes from hard layers of experience, which distinguish and separate it from other works of 'simplified realism. ...\n\"Bhisham Sahni is able to express the terrifying tragedy of Partition with an extraordinary compassion in his stories. Amritsar Aa Gaya Hai ('We have reached Amritsar') is one such exceptional work where Bhisham gets away from the external reality and points to the bloody fissures etched on people's psyche. This is possible only for a writer who, in the darkness of historic events has seen the sudden 'accidents' that happen inside human hearts from up close.\" ... \n\"After reading his last collection of stories Daayan (Witch), I was amazed that even after so many years there seemed no repetition or staleness in his writing. Each of his stories seemed to bring something sudden from newer directions, which was as new for him as it was unexpected for us. That Bhisham never paused, never halted in such a long creative journey is a big achievement; but what is bigger perhaps is that his life nurtured his work and his work nurtured his life, both nurtured each other continuously.\n\nKamleshwar,\"Bhisham Sahni's name is etched so deeply into the twentieth century of Hindi literature that it cannot be erased. With Independence and till the 11th. July 2003, this name has been synonymous with Hindi story and play writing. Bhisham Sahni had gained such an unmatched popularity that all kinds of readers awaited his new creations and each and every word of his was read. There was no need to ask a general reader if he had read this or that writing by Bhisham. It was possible to begin a sudden discussion on his stories or novels. Such a rare readerly privilege was either available to Premchand or, after Harishankar Parsai, to Bhisham Sahni. This too is rare that the fame he received from Hindi should, during his lifetime, become the fame for Hindi itself.\n\nKrishan Baldev Vaid. \"Bhisham Sahni's last published book, an autobiography with the quiet title Aaj Ke Ateet (The Pasts of the Present), is a beautiful culmination of a lifetime of excellent writing. Apart from giving us an intimate account of some of the salient phases of his life, it epitomises his literary qualities. It is full of fun and insights; it is variegated; it is fair; it is unsmug; it is absorbing; it is also his farewell to his family, his milieu, his readers, and his friends.\n\nHe begins at the beginning and ends very near the end. The book glows with the sense of ending without, however, any trace of morbidity or self-pity. The early part, where Bhisham tenderly evokes his earliest memories and records his childhood in an affectionate middle-class family in Rawalpindi, is for me the most moving part of this self-portrait. With characteristic elegance and an unfailing eye for the significant detail, the elderly author looks back with nostalgic longing at the world of his childhood and achieves a small but brilliant portrait of the artist as a little child.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Bhisham Sahni won several Awards including Shiromani Writers Award,1979, Uttar Pradesh Government Award for Tamas, 1975,Colour of Nation Award at International Theatre Festival,Russia for Play Madhavi by Rashi Bunny,2004, Madhya Pradesh Kala Sahitya Parishad Award, for his play 'Hanush', 1975 the Lotus Award from the Afro-Asian Writers' Association, 1981 and the Soviet Land Nehru Award, 1983, and finally the Padma Bhushan for literature in 1998, Shalaka Samman, New Delhi 1999=2000, Maithlisharan Gupta Samman, Madhya Pradesh, 2000–2001, Sangeet Natak Academy Award 2001,Sir Syed National Award for best Hindi Fiction Writer 2002, and India's highest literary award the Sahitya Akademi Fellowship in 2002.\n\nOn 31 May 2017, India Post released a commemorative postage stamp to honour Sahni.\n\n"}
{"id": "4733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4733", "title": "Bi-directional text", "text": "Bi-directional text\n\nBi-directional text is text containing text in both text directionalities, both right-to-left (RTL or dextrosinistral) and left-to-right (LTR or sinistrodextral). It generally involves text containing different types of alphabets, but may also refer to boustrophedon, which is changing text directionality in each row.\n\nSome writing systems of the world, including the Arabic and Hebrew scripts or derived systems such as the Persian, Urdu, and Yiddish scripts, are written in a form known as right-to-left (RTL), in which writing begins at the right-hand side of a page and concludes at the left-hand side. This is different from the left-to-right (LTR) direction used by the dominant Latin script. When LTR text is mixed with RTL in the same paragraph, each type of text is written in its own direction, which is known as \"bi-directional text\". This can get rather complex when multiple levels of quotation are used.\n\nMany computer programs fail to display bi-directional text correctly.\nFor example, the Hebrew name Sarah (שרה) is spelled: sin (ש) (which appears rightmost), then resh (ר), and finally heh (ה) (which should appear leftmost).\n\n\"Note: Some web browsers may display the Hebrew text in this article in the opposite direction.\"\n\nBidirectional script support is the capability of a computer system to correctly display bi-directional text. The term is often shortened to \"BiDi\" or \"bidi\".\n\nEarly computer installations were designed only to support a single writing system, typically for left-to-right scripts based on the Latin alphabet only. Adding new character sets and character encodings enabled a number of other left-to-right scripts to be supported, but did not easily support right-to-left scripts such as Arabic or Hebrew, and mixing the two was not practical. Right-to-left scripts were introduced through encodings like ISO/IEC 8859-6 and ISO/IEC 8859-8, storing the letters (usually) in writing and reading order. It is possible to simply flip the left-to-right display order to a right-to-left display order, but doing this sacrifices the ability to correctly display left-to-right scripts. With bidirectional script support, it is possible to mix scripts from different scripts on the same page, regardless of writing direction.\n\nIn particular, the Unicode standard provides foundations for complete BiDi support, with detailed rules as to how mixtures of left-to-right and right-to-left scripts are to be encoded and displayed.\n\nThe Unicode standard calls for characters to be ordered 'logically', i.e. in the sequence they are intended to be interpreted, as opposed to 'visually', the sequence they appear. This distinction is relevant for bidi support because at any bidi transition, the visual presentation ceases to be the 'logical' one. Thus, in order to offer bidi support, Unicode prescribes an algorithm for how to convert the logical sequence of characters into the correct visual presentation. For this purpose, the Unicode encoding standard divides all its characters into one of four types: 'strong', 'weak', 'neutral', and 'explicit formatting'. \n\nStrong characters are those with definite directionality. Examples of this type of character include most alphabetic characters, syllabic characters, Han ideographs, non-European or non-Arabic digits, and punctuation characters \"that are specific to only those scripts\".\n\nWeak characters are those with vague directionality. Examples of this type of character include European digits, Eastern Arabic-Indic digits, arithmetic symbols, and currency symbols.\n\nUnless a directional override is present numbers are always encoded (and entered) big-endian, and the numerals rendered LTR. The weak directionality only applies to the placement of the number in its entirety.\n\nNeutral characters have directionality indeterminable without context. Examples include paragraph separators, tabs, and most other whitespace characters. Punctuation symbols that are common to many scripts, such as the colon, comma, full-stop, and the no-break-space also fall within this category.\n\nExplicit formatting characters, also referred to as \"directional formatting characters\", are special Unicode sequences that direct the unicode algorithm to modify its default behavior. These characters are subdivided into \"marks\", \"embeddings\", \"isolates\", and \"overrides\". Their effects continue until the occurrence of either a paragraph separator, or a \"pop\" character.\n\nIf a \"weak\" character is followed by another \"weak\" character, the algorithm will look at the first neighbouring \"strong\" character. Sometimes this leads to unintentional display errors. These errors are corrected or prevented with \"pseudo-strong\" characters. Such Unicode control characters are called \"marks\". The mark ( or ) is to be inserted into a location to make an enclosed weak character inherit its writing direction.\n\nFor example, to correctly display the for an English name brand (LTR) in an Arabic (RTL) passage, an LRM mark is inserted after the trademark symbol if the symbol is not followed by LTR text (e.g. \"). If the LRM mark is not added, the weak character ™ will be neighbored by a strong LTR character and a strong RTL character. Hence, in an RTL context, it will be considered to be RTL, and displayed in an incorrect order (e.g. \").\n\nThe \"embedding\" directional formatting characters are the classical Unicode method of explicit formatting, and as of Unicode 6.3, are being discouraged in favor of \"isolates\". An \"embedding\" signals that a piece of text is to be treated as directionally distinct. The text within the scope of the embedding formatting characters is not independent of the surrounding text. Also, characters within an embedding can affect the ordering of characters outside. Unicode 6.3 recognized that directional embeddings usually have too strong an effect on their surroundings and are thus unnecessarily difficult to use.\n\nThe \"isolate\" directional formatting characters signal that a piece of text is to be treated as directionally isolated from its surroundings. As of Unicode 6.3, these are the formatting characters that are being encouraged in new documents – once target platforms are known to support them. These formatting characters were introduced after it became apparent that directional embeddings usually have too strong an effect on their surroundings and are thus unnecessarily difficult to use. Unlike the legacy 'embedding' directional formatting characters, 'isolate' characters have no effect on the ordering of the text outside their scope. Isolates can be nested, and may be placed within embeddings and overrides.\n\nThe \"override\" directional formatting characters allow for special cases, such as for part numbers (e.g. to force a part number made of mixed English, digits and Hebrew letters to be written from right to left), and are recommended to be avoided wherever possible. As is true of the other directional formatting characters, \"overrides\" can be nested one inside another, and in embeddings and isolates.\n\nThe \"pop\" directional formatting characters terminate the scope of the most recent \"embedding\", \"override\", or \"isolate\".\n\nIn the algorithm, each sequence of concatenated strong characters is called a \"run\". A \"weak\" character that is located between two \"strong\" characters with the same orientation will inherit their orientation. A \"weak\" character that is located between two \"strong\" characters with a different writing direction, will inherit the main context's writing direction (in an LTR document the character will become LTR, in an RTL document, it will become RTL).\n\nEgyptian hieroglyphs can be written bi-directionally, where the signs had a distinct \"head\" that faced the beginning of a line and \"tail\" that faced the end.\n\nChinese characters can be written in either direction as well as vertically (top to bottom then right to left), especially in signs (such as plaques), but the orientation of the individual characters is never changed. This can often be seen on tour buses in China, where the company name customarily runs from the front of the vehicle to its rear — that is, from right to left on the right side of the bus, and from left to right on the left side of the bus. English texts on the right side of the vehicle are also quite commonly written in reverse order. (See pictures of tour bus and post vehicle below.)\n\nLikewise, other CJK scripts made up of the same square characters, such as the Japanese writing system and Korean writing system, can also be written in any direction, although left-to-right, top-to-bottom and top-to-bottom, right-to-left are most common.\nBoustrophedon is a writing style found in ancient Greek inscriptions and in Hungarian runes. This method of writing alternates direction, and usually reverses the individual characters, on each successive line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5891633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5891633", "title": "Bibhutibhushan Mukhopadhyay", "text": "Bibhutibhushan Mukhopadhyay\n\nBibhutibhushan Mukhopadhyay was born on 24 October 1894 in Pandoul, a village of the Mithila region of British India.\n\nHe received the Ananda Puraskar award in 1958, the Rabindra Puraskar in 1972 and the Sharatchandra Puraskar in 1978. He was also awarded the Jagattarini Puraskar from Calcutta University, a D.Litt degree from the University of Burdwan and Desikottama from the Visva-Bharati University of Shantiniketan.\n\nMukhopadhyay died on 29 July 1987 in Darbhanga at the age of 93, He never married.\n\nBibhutibhushan Mukhopadhyay’s first book, \"Ranur Prothom Vagh\" was published in 1934. His writings were included in the academic curriculae in Bihar, Bengal and Bangladesh.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14966101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14966101", "title": "Coh-Metrix", "text": "Coh-Metrix\n\nCoh-Metrix is a computational tool that produces indices of the linguistic and discourse representations of a text. Developed by\nArthur C. Graesser and Danielle McNamara, Coh-Metrix calculates the coherence of texts on many different measures.\n\nCoh-Metrix can be used in many different ways to investigate the cohesion of the explicit text and the coherence of the mental representation of the text. \"Our definition of cohesion consists of characteristics of the explicit text that play some role in helping the reader mentally connect ideas in the text\" (Graesser, McNamara, & Louwerse, 2003). The definition of coherence is the subject of much debate. Theoretically, the coherence of a text is defined by the interaction between linguistic representations and knowledge representations. While coherence can be defined as characteristics of the text (i.e., aspects of cohesion) that are likely to contribute to the coherence of the mental representation, Coh-Metrix measurements provide indices of these cohesion characteristics.\n\nAccording to an empirical study, the Coh-Metrix L2 Reading Index performs significantly better than traditional readability formulas.\n\n"}
{"id": "8329918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8329918", "title": "Critical period hypothesis", "text": "Critical period hypothesis\n\nThe critical period hypothesis is the subject of a long-standing debate in linguistics and language acquisition over the extent to which the ability to acquire language is biologically linked to age. The hypothesis claims that there is an ideal time window to acquire language in a linguistically rich environment, after which further language acquisition becomes much more difficult and effortful.\n\nThe critical period hypothesis states that the first few years of life is the crucial time in which an individual can acquire a first language if presented with adequate stimuli. If language input does not occur until after this time, the individual will never achieve a full command of language—especially grammatical systems.\n\nThe evidence for such a period is limited, and support stems largely from theoretical arguments and analogies to other critical periods in biology such as visual development, but nonetheless is widely accepted. The nature of such a critical period, however, has been one of the most fiercely debated issues in psycholinguistics and cognitive science in general for decades. Some writers have suggested a \"sensitive\" or \"optimal\" period rather than a critical one; others dispute the causes (physical maturation, cognitive factors). The duration of the period also varies greatly in different accounts.\n\nIn second-language acquisition, the strongest empirical evidence for the critical period hypothesis is in the study of accent, where most older learners do not reach a native-like level. However, under certain conditions, native-like accent has been observed, suggesting that accent is affected by multiple factors, such as identity and motivation, rather than a critical period biological constraint.\n\nThe critical period hypothesis was first proposed by Montreal neurologist Wilder Penfield and co-author Lamar Roberts in their 1959 book \"Speech and Brain Mechanisms\", and was popularized by Eric Lenneberg in 1967 with \"Biological Foundations of Language.\"\n\nLenneberg's critical period hypothesis states that there are maturational constraints on the time a first language can be acquired. First-language acquisition relies on neuroplasticity. If language acquisition does not occur by puberty, some aspects of language can be learned but full mastery cannot be achieved.\n\nSupport for the critical period theory stems largely from theoretical arguments and analogies to other critical periods in biology such as visual development. Strictly speaking, the experimentally verified critical period relates to a time span during which \"damage\" to the development of the visual system can occur, for example if animals are deprived of the necessary binocular input for developing stereopsis. It has however been considered \"likely\", and has in many cases been flatly presented as fact, that experimental evidence would point to a comparable critical period also for \"recovery\" of such development and \"treatment\"; however this is a hypothesis. Recently, doubts have arisen concerning the validity of this critical period hypothesis with regard to visual development, in particular since the time it became known that neuroscientist Susan R. Barry and others have achieved stereopsis as adults, long after the supposed critical period for acquiring this skill.\n\nRecently, it has been suggested that if a critical period does exist, it may be due at least partially to the delayed development of the prefrontal cortex in human children. Researchers have suggested that delayed development of the prefrontal cortex and an associated delay in the development of cognitive control may facilitate convention learning, allowing young children to learn language far more easily than cognitively mature adults and older children. This pattern of prefrontal development is unique to humans among similar mammalian (and primate) species, and may explain why humans—and not chimpanzees—are so adept at learning language.\n\nThe theory has often been extended to a critical period for second-language acquisition (SLA), although this is much less widely accepted. Certainly, older learners of a second language rarely achieve the native-like fluency that younger learners display, despite often progressing faster than children in the initial stages. David Singleton states that in learning a second language, \"younger = better in the long run\", but points out that there are many exceptions, noting that five percent of adult bilinguals master a second language even though they begin learning it when they are well into adulthood—long after any critical period has presumably come to a close.\n\nWhile the window for learning a second language never completely closes, certain linguistic aspects appear to be more affected by the age of the learner than others. For example, adult second-language learners nearly always retain an immediately identifiable foreign accent, including some who display perfect grammar. A possible explanation for why this foreign accent remains is that pronunciation, or phonology, is susceptible to the critical period. The pronunciation of speech sounds relies on neuromuscular function. Adults learning a new language are unlikely to attain a convincing native accent since they are past the prime age of learning new neuromuscular functions, and therefore pronunciations. Writers have suggested a younger critical age for learning phonology than for morphemes and syntax. reports that there is no critical period for learning vocabulary in a second language because vocabulary is learned consciously using declarative memory. The attrition of procedural memory with age results in the increased use of declarative memory to learn new languages, which is an entirely different process from L1 (first language) learning. The plasticity of procedural memory is argued to decline after the age of 5. The attrition of procedural memory plasticity inhibits the ability of an L2 user to speak their second language automatically. It can still take conscious effort even if they are exposed to the second language as early as age 3. This effort is observed by measuring brain activity. L2-users that are exposed to their second language at an early age and are everyday users show lower levels of brain activity when using their L1 than when using their L2. This suggests that additional resources are recruited when speaking their L2 and it is therefore a more strenuous process.\n\nThe critical period hypothesis in SLA follows a \"use it then lose it\" approach, which dictates that as a person ages, excess neural circuitry used during L1 learning is essentially broken down. If these neural structures remained intact they would cost unnecessary metabolic energy to maintain. The structures necessary for L1 use are kept. On the other hand, a second \"use it or lose it\" approach dictates that if an L2 user begins to learn at an early age and continues on through his life, then his language-learning circuitry should remain active. This approach is also called the \"exercise hypothesis\".\n\nThere is much debate over the timing of the critical period with respect to SLA, with estimates ranging between 2 and 13 years of age. These estimates tend to vary depending on what component of the language learning process a researcher considers. For instance, if an SLA researcher is studying L2 \"phonological\" development, they will likely conclude that the critical period ends at around age 3. If another SLA researcher is studying L2 \"syntactical\" development, they may conclude that the critical period ends at a much later age. These differences in research focus are what create the critical period timing debate.\n\nSome writers have argued that the critical period hypothesis does not apply to SLA, and that second-language proficiency is determined by the time and effort put into the learning process, and not the learner's age. observed that factors other than age may be even more significant in successful second-language learning, such as personal motivation, anxiety, input and output skills, and the learning environment. A combination of these factors often leads to individual variation in second-language acquisition experiences.\n\nOn reviewing the published material, Bialystok and Hakuta (1994) conclude that second-language learning is not necessarily subject to biological critical periods, but \"on average, there is a continuous decline in ability [to learn] with age.\"\n\nHow children acquire native language (L1) and the relevance of this to foreign language (L2) learning has long been debated. Although evidence for L2 learning ability declining with age is controversial, a common notion is that children learn L2s easily, whilst older learners rarely achieve fluency. This assumption stems from ‘critical period’ (CP) ideas. A CP was popularised by Eric Lenneberg in 1967 for L1 acquisition, but considerable interest now surrounds age effects on second-language acquisition (SLA). SLA theories explain learning processes and suggest causal factors for a possible CP for second language acquisition. These SLA-CP theories mainly attempt to explain apparent differences in language aptitudes of children and adults by distinct learning routes, and clarify these differences by discussing psychological mechanisms. Research explores these ideas and hypotheses, but results are varied: some demonstrate pre-pubescent children acquire language easily, and some that older learners have the advantage, whilst others focus on existence of a CP for SLA. Recent studies (e.g. Mayberry and Lock, 2003) have recognised certain aspects of SLA may be affected by age, whilst others remain intact. The objective of this study is to investigate whether capacity for vocabulary acquisition decreases with age.\n\nOther work has challenged the biological approach; Krashen (1975) re-analysed clinical data used as evidence and concluded cerebral specialisation occurs much earlier than Lenneberg calculated. Therefore, if a CP exists, it does not coincide with lateralisation. Despite concerns with Lenneberg’s original evidence and the dissociation of lateralisation from the language CP idea, however, the concept of a CP remains a viable hypothesis, which later work has better explained and substantiated.\n\nA review of SLA theories and their explanations for age-related differences is necessary before considering empirical studies. The most reductionist theories are those of Penfield and Roberts (1959) and Lenneberg (1967), which stem from L1 and brain damage studies. Children who suffer impairment before puberty typically recover and (re-)develop normal language, whereas adults rarely recover fully, and often do not regain verbal abilities beyond the point reached five months after impairment. Both theories agree that children have a neurological advantage in learning languages, and that puberty correlates with a turning point in ability. They assert that language acquisition occurs primarily, possibly exclusively, during childhood as the brain loses plasticity after a certain age. It then becomes rigid and fixed, and loses the ability for adaptation and reorganisation, rendering language (re-)learning difficult. Penfield and Roberts (1959) claim children under nine can learn up to three languages: early exposure to different languages activates a reflex in the brain allowing them to switch between languages without confusion or translation into L1 (Penfield, 1964). Lenneberg (1967) asserts that if no language is learned by puberty, it cannot be learned in a normal, functional sense. He also supports Penfield and Roberts’ (1959) proposal of neurological mechanisms responsible for maturational change in language learning abilities. This, Lenneberg maintains, coincides with brain lateralisation and left-hemispherical specialisation for language around age thirteen: infants’ motor and linguistic skills develop simultaneously, but by age thirteen the cerebral hemispheres’ functions separate and become set, making language acquisition extremely difficult (Lenneberg, 1967).\n\nCases of deaf and feral children provide evidence for a biologically determined CP for L1. Feral children are those not exposed to language in infancy/childhood due to being brought up in the wild, in isolation and/or confinement. A classic example is 'Genie', a victim of child abuse who was deprived of social interaction from birth until discovered aged thirteen. Her father had judged her retarded at birth and had chosen to isolate her. She was kept strapped to a potty chair and forced to wear diapers. She was completely without language. Her case presented an ideal opportunity to test the theory that a nurturing environment could somehow make up for the total lack of language past the age of 12. After seven years of rehabilitation Genie still lacked linguistic competence, although the degree to which she acquired language is disputed. Another case is 'Isabelle', who was incarcerated with her deaf-mute mother until the age of six and a half (pre-pubescent). She also had no language skills, but, unlike Genie, quickly acquired normal language abilities through systematic specialist training. Detractors of the critical period hypothesis point out that in these examples and others like them (see feral children), the child is hardly growing up in a nurturing environment, and that the lack of language acquisition in later life may be due to the results of a generally abusive environment rather than being specifically due to a lack of exposure to language. Such studies are problematic; isolation can result in general retardation and emotional disturbances, which may confound conclusions drawn about language abilities.\n\nStudies of deaf children learning American Sign Language (ASL) have fewer methodological weaknesses. Newport and Supalla studied ASL acquisition in deaf children differing in age of exposure; few were exposed to ASL from birth, most of them first learned it at school. Results showed a linear decline in performance with increasing age of exposure; those exposed to ASL from birth performed best, and 'late learners' worst, on all production and comprehension tests. Their study thus provides direct evidence for language learning ability decreasing with age, but it does not add to Lenneberg's CP hypothesis as even the oldest children, the 'late learners', were exposed to ASL by age four, and had therefore not reached puberty, the proposed end of the CP. In addition, the declines were shown to be linear, with no sudden 'drop off' of ability at a certain age, as would be predicted by a strong CP hypothesis. That the children performed significantly worse may suggest that the CP ends earlier than originally postulated. However, this decline in performance may also be attributed in part to limitations of second language acquisition for hearing parents learning ASL.\n\nContrary to biological views, behavioural approaches assert that languages are learned as any other behaviour, through conditioning. Skinner (1957) details how operant conditioning forms connections with the environment through interaction and, alongside O. Hobart Mowrer (1960), applies the ideas to language acquisition. Mowrer hypothesises that languages are acquired through rewarded imitation of ‘language models’; the model must have an emotional link to the learner (e.g. parent, spouse), as imitation then brings pleasant feelings which function as positive reinforcement. Because new connections between behaviour and the environment are formed and reformed throughout life, it is possible to gain new skills, including language(s), at any age.\n\nTo explain observed language learning differences between children and adults, children are postulated to create countless new connections daily, and may handle the language learning process more effectively than do adults. This assumption, however, remains untested and is not a reliable explanation for children’s aptitude for L2 learning. Problematic of the behaviourist approach is its assumption that all learning, verbal and non-verbal, occurs through the same processes. A more general problem is that, as Pinker (1995) notes, almost every sentence anybody voices is an original combination of words, never previously uttered, therefore a language cannot consist only of word combinations learned through repetition and conditioning; the brain must contain innate means of creating endless amounts of grammatical sentences from a limited vocabulary. This is precisely what Chomsky (1965) (reprinted as ) argues with his proposition of a universal grammar (UG).\n\n asserts that environmental factors must be relatively unimportant for language emergence, as so many different factors surround children acquiring L1. Instead, Chomsky claims language learners possess innate principles building a 'language acquisition device' (LAD) in the brain. These principles denote restricted possibilities for variation within the language, and enable learners to construct a grammar out of 'raw input' collected from the environment. Input alone cannot explain language acquisition because it is degenerated by characteristic features such as stutters, and lacks corrections from which learners discover incorrect variations.\n\nSingleton and Newport (2004) demonstrate the function of UG in their study of 'Simon'. Simon learned ASL as his L1 from parents who had learned it as an L2 after puberty and provided him with imperfect models. Results showed Simon learned normal and logical rules and was able to construct an organised linguistic system, despite being exposed to inconsistent input. Chomsky developed UG to explain L1 acquisition data, but maintains it also applies to L2 learners who achieve near-native fluency not attributable solely to input and interaction .\n\nAlthough it does not describe an optimal age for SLA, the theory implies that younger children can learn languages more easily than older learners, as adults must reactivate principles developed during L1 learning and forge an SLA path: children can learn several languages simultaneously as long as the principles are still active and they are exposed to sufficient language samples (Pinker, 1995). The parents of Singleton and Newport's (2004) patient also had linguistic abilities in line with these age-related predictions; they learned ASL after puberty and never reached complete fluency.\n\nThere are, however, problems with the extrapolation of the UG theory to SLA: L2 learners go through several phases of types of utterance that are not similar to their L1 or the L2 they hear. Other factors include the cognitive maturity of most L2 learners, that they have different motivation for learning the language, and already speak one language fluently. Other studies also highlight these problems: Stanislas Dehaene has investigated how cerebral circuits used to handling one language adapt for the efficient storage of two or more. He reports observations of cerebral activation when reading and translating two languages. They found the most activated brain areas during the tasks were not those generally associated with language, but rather those related to mapping orthography to phonology. They conclude that the left temporal lobe is the physical base of L1, but the L2 is 'stored' elsewhere, thus explaining cases of bilingual aphasia where one language remains intact. They maintain that only languages learned simultaneously from birth are represented, and cause activity, in the left hemisphere: any L2 learned later is stored separately (possibly in the right hemisphere), and rarely activates the left temporal lobe.\n\nThis suggests that L2 may be qualitatively different from L1 due to its dissociation from the 'normal' language brain regions, thus the extrapolation of L1 studies and theories to SLA is placed in question. A further disadvantage of UG is that supporting empirical data are taken from a limited sample of syntactic phenomena: a general theory of language acquisition should cover a larger range of phenomena. Despite these problems, several other theorists have based their own models of language learning on it. These ideas are supported by empirical evidence, which consequently supports Chomsky's ideas. Due to this support and its descriptive and explanatory strength, many theorists regard UG as the best explanation of language, and particularly grammar, acquisition.\n\nA key question about the relationship of UG and SLA is: is the language acquisition device posited by Chomsky and his followers still accessible to learners of a second language? The critical period hypothesis suggests that it becomes inaccessible at a certain age, and learners increasingly depended on explicit teaching. In other words, although all of language may be governed by UG, older learners might have great difficulty in gaining access to the target language's underlying rules from positive input alone.\n\nPiaget (1926) is one psychologist reluctant to ascribe specific innate linguistic abilities to children: he considers the brain a homogeneous computational system, with language acquisition being one part of general learning. He agrees this development may be innate, but claims there is no specific language acquisition module in the brain. Instead, he suggests external influences and social interaction trigger language acquisition: information collected from these sources constructs symbolic and functional schemata (thought or behaviour patterns). According to Piaget, cognitive development and language acquisition are lifelong active processes that constantly update and re-organise schemata. He proposes children develop L1 as they build a sense of identity in reference to the environment, and describes phases of general cognitive development, with processes and patterns changing systematically with age. Piaget assumes language acquisition is part of this complex cognitive development, and that these developmental phases are the basis for an optimal period for language acquisition in childhood. Interactionist approaches derived from Piaget’s ideas supports his theory. Some studies (e.g. Newport and Supalla) show that, rather than abrupt changes in SLA ability after puberty, language ability declines with age, coinciding with declines in other cognitive abilities, thus supporting Piaget.\n\nAlthough Krashen (1975) also criticises this theory, he does not deny the importance of age for second-language acquisition. Krashen (1975) proposed theories for the close of the CP for L2 at puberty, based on Piaget’s cognitive stage of formal operations beginning at puberty, as the ‘ability of the formal operational thinker to construct abstract hypotheses to explain phenomena’ inhibits the individual’s natural ability for language learning.\n\nThe term \"language acquisition\" became commonly used after Stephen Krashen contrasted it with formal and non-constructive \"learning.\" Today, most scholars use \"language learning\" and \"language acquisition\" interchangeably, unless they are directly addressing Krashen's work. However, \"second-language acquisition\" or \"SLA\" has become established as the preferred term for this academic discipline.\n\nThough SLA is often viewed as part of applied linguistics, it is typically concerned with the language system and learning processes themselves, whereas applied linguistics may focus more on the experiences of the learner, particularly in the classroom. Additionally, SLA has mostly examined \"naturalistic\" acquisition, where learners acquire a language with little formal training or teaching.\n\nVirtually all research findings on SLA to date build on data from literate learners. find significantly different results when replicating standard SLA studies with low literate L2 learners. Specifically, learners with lower alphabetic literacy levels are significantly less likely to notice corrective feedback on form or to perform elicited imitation tasks accurately. These findings are consistent with research in cognitive psychology showing significant differences in phonological awareness between literate and illiterate adults . An important direction for SLA research must therefore involve the exploration of the impact of alphabetic literacy on cognitive processing in second-language acquisition.\n\nEmpirical research has attempted to account for variables detailed by SLA theories and provide an insight into L2 learning processes, which can be applied in educational environments. Recent SLA investigations have followed two main directions: one focuses on pairings of L1 and L2 that render L2 acquisition particularly difficult, and the other investigates certain aspects of language that may be maturationally constrained. looked at bilingual dominance to evaluate two explanations of L2 performance differences between bilinguals and monolingual-L2 speakers, i.e. a maturationally defined CP or interlingual interference.\n\n investigated whether the age at which participants learned English affected dominance in Italian-English bilinguals, and found the early bilinguals were English (L2) dominant and the late bilinguals Italian (L1) dominant. Further analysis showed that dominant Italian bilinguals had detectable foreign accents when speaking English, but early bilinguals (English dominant) had no accents in either language. This suggests that, though interlingual interference effects are not inevitable, their emergence, and bilingual dominance, may be related to a CP.\n\nThese difficulties are attributed to a phase around age eight months where bilingual infants are insensitive to vowel contrasts, despite the language they hear most. This affects how words are later represented in their lexicons, highlighting this as a decisive period in language acquisition and showing that initial language exposure shapes linguistic processing for life. also indicate the significance of phonology for L2 learning; they believe learning an L2 once the L1 phonology is already internalised can reduce individuals’ abilities to distinguish new sounds that appear in the L2.\n\nMost studies into age effects on specific aspects of SLA have focused on grammar, with the common conclusion that it is highly constrained by age, more so than semantic functioning. compared attainment of French learners in early and late immersion programs. She reports that after 1000 exposure hours, late learners had better control of French verb systems and syntax. However, comparing early immersion students (average age 6.917 years) with age-matched native speakers identified common problem areas, including third person plurals and polite ‘vous’ forms. This suggests grammar (in L1 or L2) is generally acquired later, possibly because it requires abstract cognition and reasoning.\n\nB. Harley also measured eventual attainment and found the two age groups made similar mistakes in syntax and lexical selection, often confusing French with the L1. The general conclusion from these investigations is that different aged learners acquire the various aspects of language with varying difficulty. Some variation in grammatical performance is attributed to maturation, however, all participants began immersion programs before puberty and so were too young for a strong critical period hypothesis to be directly tested.\n\nThis corresponds to Noam Chomsky’s UG theory, which states that while language acquisition principles are still active, it is easy to learn a language, and the principles developed through L1 acquisition are vital for learning an L2.\n\nOne study that specifically mentions semantic functions acquisition is that of . Their results showed that Chinese-English bilinguals who had been exposed to English after puberty, learned vocabulary to a higher competence level than syntactic aspects of language. They do, however, report that the judgment accuracies in detecting semantic anomalies were altered in subjects who were exposed to English after sixteen years of age, but were affected to a lesser degree than were grammatical aspects of language. It has been speculated by and that semantic aspects of language are founded on associative learning mechanisms, which allow lifelong learning, whereas syntactical aspects are based on computational mechanisms, which can only be constructed during certain age periods. Consequently, it is reasoned, semantic functions are easier to access during comprehension of an L2 and therefore dominate the process: if these are ambiguous, understanding of syntactic information is not facilitated. These suppositions would help explain the results of Scherag et al.'s (2004) study.\n\nIt is commonly believed that children are better suited to learning a second language than are adults. However, general second-language research has failed to support the critical period hypothesis in its strong form (i.e., the claim that full language acquisition is impossible beyond a certain age).\nAccording to Linda M. Espinosa, especially in the United States the number of children growing up with a home language that is not English but Spanish is constantly increasing. Therefore, these children have to learn the English language before kindergarten as a second language. It is better for young children to maintain both their home language and their second language. Cultivating their home language, children create their own cultural identity and become aware of their roots. This fact leads to the question whether having the ability to speak two languages helps or harms young children. Research shows that the acquisition of a second language in early childhood confers several advantages, especially a greater awareness of linguistic structures. Furthermore, it is advantageous for young children to grow up bilingually because they do not need to be taught systematically but learn languages intuitively. How fast a child can learn a language depends on several personal factors, such as interest and motivation, and their learning environment. Communication should be facilitated rather than forcing a child to learn a language with strict rules. Education in early childhood can lead to an effective educational achievement for children from various cultural environments.\n\nAnother aspect worth considering is that bilingual children are often doing code switching, which does not mean that the child is not able to separate the languages. The reason for code switching is the child's lack of vocabulary in a certain situation. The acquisition of a second language in early childhood broadens children's minds and enriches them more than it harms them. Thus they are not only able to speak two languages in spite of being very young but they also acquire knowledge about the different cultures and environments. It is possible for one language to dominate. This depends on how much time is spent on learning each language.\n\nIn order to provide evidence for the evolutionary functionality of the critical period in language acquisition, generated a computer simulation of plausible conditions of evolving generations, based on three central assumptions:\n\n\nAccording to Hurford's evolutionary model, language acquisition is an adaptation that has survival value for humans, and that knowing a language correlates positively with an individual’s reproductive advantage. This finding is in line with views of other researchers such as Chomsky and . For example, Steven Pinker and Paul Bloom argue that because a language is a complex design that serves a specific function that cannot be replaced by any other existing capacity, the trait of language acquisition can be attributed to natural selection.\n\nHowever, while arguing that language itself is adaptive and \"did not 'just happen'\" (p. 172), Hurford suggests that the critical period is not an adaptation, but rather a constraint on language that emerged due to a lack of selection pressures that reinforce acquiring more than one language. In other words, Hurford explains the existence of a critical period with genetic drift, the idea that when there are no selection pressures on multiple alleles acting on the same trait, one of the alleles will gradually diminish through evolution. Because the simulation reveals no evolutionary advantage of acquiring more than one language, Hurford suggests that the critical period evolved simply as a result of a lack of selection pressure.\n\n supported Hurford's model, yet pointed out that it was limited in the sense that it did not take into account the costs of learning a language. Therefore, they created their own algorithmic model, with the following assumptions:\n\n\nTheir model consists of a population with constant size, where language ability is a predictor of reproductive fitness. The learning mechanism in their model is based on linguistic theories of – the language acquisition device (LAD) and the notion of universal grammar. The results of their model show that the critical period for language acquisition is an \"evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS)\" (Komarova & Nowak, 2001, p. 1190). They suggest that this ESS is due to two competing selection pressures. First, if the period for learning is short, language does not develop as well, and thus decreases the evolutionary fitness of the individual. Alternatively, if the period for learning language is long, it becomes too costly to the extent that it reduces reproductive opportunity for the individual, and therefore limits reproductive fitness. Therefore, the critical period is an adaptive mechanism that keeps these pressures at equilibrium, and aims at optimal reproductive success for the individual.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35291488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35291488", "title": "Emrys Roberts (poet)", "text": "Emrys Roberts (poet)\n\nEmrys Roberts (1929 – 30 March 2012) was a Welsh language poet and author, who was Archdruid of the National Eisteddfod of Wales.\n\nBorn in Liverpool, Roberts grew up in Penrhyndeudraeth and studied at the Bangor Normal College before becoming a teacher. He twice won the chair at the National Eisteddfod of Wales, in 1967 and 1971. In 1987 he was made Archdruid and led the Gorsedd of Bards at the National Eisteddfod between 1987 and 1990 under the bardic name Emrys Deudraeth.\n"}
{"id": "4659568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4659568", "title": "EpiDoc", "text": "EpiDoc\n\nThe EpiDoc Collaborative, building recommendations for structured markup of epigraphic documents in TEI XML, was originally formed in 2000 by scholars at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill: Tom Elliott, the former director of the Ancient World Mapping Center, with Hugh Cayless and Amy Hawkins. The guidelines have matured considerably through extensive discussion on the Markup list and other discussion fora, at several conferences, and through the experience of various pilot projects. The first major—but not by any means the only—epigraphic project to adopt and pilot the EpiDoc recommendations were the Inscriptions of Aphrodisias and Vindolanda Tablets Online in 2002-4, and the guidelines reached a degree of stability for the first time in that period. EpiDoc has since been adopted as the native format for the Greek Papyrology site, Papyri.info.\n\nThe EpiDoc schema and guidelines may also be applied, perhaps with some local modification to related palaeographical fields including Sigillography, and Numismatics.\n\nThe EpiDoc Guidelines are available in two forms:\n\nThe EpiDoc Schema is also available in two forms:\n\nOther tools developed by and for the EpiDoc community include:\n\n\nFuller list of projects maintained at:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47619451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47619451", "title": "Eran Zur", "text": "Eran Zur\n\nEran Zur (; born 11 July 1965 in Kiryat Bialik) is an Israeli rock singer and songwriter and prose writer, who started his career in late 1980s. He wrote dozens of songs for himself as well as for other Israeli artists. He mostly plays bass guitar. One of the characteristics of his songs is strong and explicit accent on love and sexuality.\n\nIn high school Zur started playing rock songs with Eyal Schechter and Amir Ben-David, who later formed the band Avtipus in a band with the English name \"Mother Brain Crazy\", but it didn't record anything.\n\nIn 1986, after he graduated from the Rimon School of Jazz and Contemporary Music, Zur formed the band Tatu (טאטו) with his school mates Yuval Messner, Uri Balak and Alona Daniel. The band released one album, \"Khatokh Tokhen\" (Cut Content). Daniel, who went on to become a successful solo singer, sang most of the songs on it. Zur was the singer on one of the songs \"Bekhatserot bakhoshekh\" (In the Yards in Darkness), which describes the thoughts of a rapist in first person. This song was censored and forbidden for broadcasting on Israeli radio. The band protested against it - in the video for the theme song the band members were shown cutting magnetic tape, and briefly showing the title of the censored song. The band broke up in 1989, though later it reunited several times for concerts.\n\nAfter the break-up of Tatu, Zur started another band named Carmela Gross Wagner. The band included Uri Balak, who earlier played in Tatu, as well as Uri Frost and Avshalom Kaspi. Another Tatu band mate Yuval Messner acted as a cello player in several songs and co-wrote some of them - a partnership that continued throughout Zur's career. The band's first album was released in 1991, with most songs written by Zur, one song by Meir Ariel, and several songs by the poet and the gender researcher Amalia Ziv. The album did not sell well initially, although the song \"Tmuna impressionistit\" (מונה אימפרסיוניסטית, Impressionist Picture), performed with Corinne Allal, became a major radio hit.\n\nin 1992 the guitar player Uri Frost left Carmela Gross Wagner to join Rir. He was replaced by Dror Orgad and later by Ram Orion, of the Top-Hat Carriers. Another new band member as Yarona Caspi of Gvanim Kehim, who later went on to be a solo singer.\n\nIn 1994 Zur sang in two songs on the album \"Radio Bla Bla\" by Natasha's Friends. The same band's singer produced Carmela Gross Wagner's second album, \"Iver be-lev yam\" (\"Blindfold in the Middle of the Sea\"). The album became more popular than its predecessor, producing the hits \"Erev bet kislev\" (partially based on a medieval poem by Solomon ibn Gabirol) and \"Kayits\" (\"Summer\"). Both songs were composed by Messner. In 1995 Carmela Gross Wagner broke up although, like Tatu, it played several reunion shows in different line-ups in the years that followed.\n\nAfter the success of \"Iver belev yam\" Zur started a series of intimate concerts, with himself on bass guitar and Messner on cello. Despite the unusual line-up, the show garnered very positive reviews and Zur continued staging up for many years to come, gradually adding newer songs.\n\nIn 1997 he staged \"Ata khavera sheli\" (\"You Are My Girlfriend\", with the masculine form of \"you\"), a concert based on poems by Yona Wallach. Rona Kenan, Dana International and Corinne Allal all performed as guests singers on the concert. An album based on the concert was also released - essentially Zur's first album as a solo artist. The ballad \"Tutim\" (\"Strawberries\") becoming a hit despite its highly explicit sexual lyrics.\n\nIn 2000 Zur released his first studio solo album \"Takhlit batakhtit\". The album had a mellower pop sound, and generated two radio hits - \"Leilot shel yareakh male\" (Full Moon Nights) and Hu ve-hi (\"He and She\").\n\nIn 2004 Zur published his first book as a prose writer - \"The Ashman House\" through the Keter Publishing House.\n\nIn 2006 he released the album \"Khotekh bekhatakh hazahav\" (\"Cutting the Golden Section\"). Zur wrote most of the songs, except three - by Inbal Perlmuter, Joshua Sobol and Naim Araidi.\n\nIn 2010 he released \"Kol ma she-enoshi\", (\"Anything Human\"), with lyrics by himself as well as by Yair Hurvitz, Avraham Shlonsky and Etgar Keret.\n\nIn 2013 he received the Meir Ariel award for Creativity in the Hebrew language.\n\nIn addition to playing concerts, Zur is a teacher in the Rimon school, where he studied himself.\n\nZur is married to Avital and has two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "6642550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6642550", "title": "Eskerê Boyîk", "text": "Eskerê Boyîk\n\nEskerê Boyîk, (*1941), is a Yazidi poet and writer. He was born into a Yazidi family at the village of \"Qundexsaz\" in Armenia. He went to school in his village and later in the village of \"Elegez\". He continued his studies in economics in Yerevan, and graduated in 1966. He has written many articles in Armenian and Russian. He is noted for his review of Soviet Kurdish literature. In the 1960s, he began writing poetry and articles in Kurdish. He is now living in Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12809953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12809953", "title": "Flag of the Swedish-speaking Finns", "text": "Flag of the Swedish-speaking Finns\n\nThe flag of the Swedish-speaking Finns is an unofficial red flag with a yellow cross used in the Swedish-speaking parts of Finland to represent the Finland-Swedes. It may be flown in addition to the Finnish blue and white flag. This flag is unfamiliar to many in Finland but there have been attempts to introduce it again to a broader audience as what is known as \"household pennants\" (Finnish \"isännänviirit\", Swedish \"husbondsvimplar\") demonstrating one's identity as Swedish-speaking, are more common and can be seen on many flagpoles in areas where there live many Swedish-speaking Finns, especially in countryside.\n\nThe flag may have been used in the 16th century, As such, the flag is based on a proposal to civil ensign put forward by the Senate flag committee in 1917. This proposal included nine white roses in the upper left corner. It also contains the same colours as one of the candidates for the Finnish flag on independence in 1917 and may even have been a proposal for the state flag itself. The current blue and white state flag became official on 28 May 1918.\n\nThe colours are traditional and based on the red and yellow of the Finnish coat of arms (and can, for example, also be seen in the coat of arms of Southwest Finland). The cross design symbolises the unity with the other Nordic countries. There are probably no official decision on the cross width but a width of not less than that of the Swedish flag, (i.e. 5:2:9 horizontally and vertically 4:2:4) and not more than that of Finland (i.e. 5:3:11 horizontally and 4:3:4 vertically) should apply. It has rectangular boxes rather than squares in the internal corners of the hoist. The flag is similar to that of Scania, but it is more oblong and has a broader and less centred cross.\n"}
{"id": "397041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397041", "title": "Free floating screed", "text": "Free floating screed\n\nThe free floating screed is a device pioneered in the 1930s that revolutionized the asphalt paving process.\nThe device is designed to flatten the material (e.g. concrete or asphalt) below it, which is also known as screed.\n\nThe free floating screed has a number of forces acting on it that, when in equilibrium, allow the depth behind the screed to be constant.\n\n\nThe angle at which the tow arm pull is exerted on the screed also contributes to the motion; its resultant force is either added or subtracted from the mass of the screed.\n\nIf each of these forces is constant, altering the angle of the screed to the horizontal (angle of attack) will control the amount of material extruded behind the screed. Increasing the angle of attack will cause the screed to climb higher through the pile of material, and therefore raise its trailing edge, increasing the amount of material extruded behind the screed. Similarly, reducing the angle of attack will reduce the amount of material extruded.\n\nThe free floating screed has become standard because of the smoothing or averaging effect it can have on the existing base course. Since the only connection between the asphalt paver and the screed is the tow arm, the screed can \"float\" vertically relative to the paver. This allows the paver to traverse uneven ground while the screed floats over the material placed in front of it.\n\nThe company Barber Greene dominated the market for free floating screed equipment until the patent expired in 1955, and now all major asphalt paver manufacturers use this design principle in their equipment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25062249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25062249", "title": "Frig (interjection)", "text": "Frig (interjection)\n\nFrig () is an interjection in the English language that expresses contempt. The word can be used as a euphemism for \"fuck\" or to refer to masturbation or sexual intercourse. The participle form \"frigging\" is used as an adjective to express annoyance or frustration. Oxford University Press' \"Oxford Dictionary of Modern Slang\" argues that \"frig\" originally meant \"to move restlessly\". A different etymology is proposed by Oxford University Press' \"Dictionary of Euphemisms\", which argues that \"frig\" initially meant \"to rub\" and developed its sexual meanings from this origin; this dictionary further argues that the modern meanings of the word are not derived from the Cornish word \"frig\", meaning \"wife\", or from the Germanic deity Frigg, the wife of Odin[{conjecture}]. The deity Frigg has sometimes been referred to in recent times as \"Friga\" or \"Frigga\" in order to distance her from the English word \"frig\". The word's use as a synonym for \"masturbate\"[extracted from frig-same route meaning] dates to 1598 in the United Kingdom, while its use as a euphemism for \"fuck\" dates to 1879 in the United Kingdom. In 1892, the word was subtly included in Joseph Wright's glossary of the dialect of the Yorkshire village of Windhill, with the Latin definition \"coire\". \"Frig\" has entered the Australian English lexicon. In the U.S. state of Maine, \"frig\" does not have the sexual connotations that it has elsewhere, and has gained social acceptance in the phrase \"frig around\" meaning \"to fool around\" or \"to putter around\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1519394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1519394", "title": "Functional protocol", "text": "Functional protocol\n\nIn telephony, a functional protocol is a type of protocol that is used to carry signaling messages between end points. Such a protocol is used to control the operation of devices at each end of the link. The adjective functional is used to describe protocols that are aware of the system state of the endpoints. Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) is a currently popular protocol for Voice over IP (VoIP) and other applications. \n\nFunctional protocols, with their awareness of system state, are becoming more popular since they fit the current technology ethos by taking the intelligence of the network to the periphery. They rely on the capability of intelligent end points. This expectation is compatible with the current technological and economic reality of silicon integration. Functional protocols are the hallmark of the dumb network architecture that marks the Internet.\n\nFunctional protocols allow the customization of applications to end user preferences. This should be contrasted with stimulus protocol such as MiNET which carry only event data and are not aware of system state. As a result, stimulus protocols were commonly used in traditional telephony architectures that relied on centralized call control. With centralization, stimulus protocols allow for more complex and reliable operation than functional because they offer standardized feature sets whose development costs can be amortized over a large number of users.\n"}
{"id": "35297817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35297817", "title": "Ghale language", "text": "Ghale language\n\nGhale is a Tibeto-Burman language of Nepal. It belongs to the group of Ghale languages. The dialects of Ghale have limited intelligibility: (south) Barpak, Kyaura, Laprak, (north) Khorla, Uiya, Jagat, Philim, Nyak\n\n\"Ethnologue\" divides Ghale into the Northern and Southern varieties.\n\n"}
{"id": "4344913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4344913", "title": "Hogging and sagging", "text": "Hogging and sagging\n\nHogging and sagging describe the shape of a beam or similar long object when loading is applied. Hogging describes a beam which curves upwards in the middle, and sagging describes a beam which curves downwards.\n\nHogging is the stress a ship's hull or keel experiences that causes the center or the keel to bend upward. Sagging is the stress a ship's hull or keel is placed under when a wave is the same length as the ship and the ship is in the trough of two waves. This causes the middle of the ship to bend down slightly, and depending of the level of bend, may cause the hull to snap or crack. \n\nSagging or dynamic hogging may have been what sank the \"Prestige\" off Spain on 19 November 2002.\n\nThe 2013 loss of container ship \"MOL Comfort\" off the coast of Yemen was attributed to hogging. Subsequent lawsuits blamed the shipbuilder for design flaws.\n\nHogging, or \"hog\", also refers to the semi-permanent bend in the keel, especially in wooden-hulled ships, caused over time by the ship's center's being more buoyant than the bow or stern. At the beginning of her 1992 refit, had over 13 inches (33 cm) of hog. The keel blocks in the drydock were set up especially to support this curve. During her three years in drydock, the center keel blocks were gradually shortened, allowing the hog to settle out. Additionally, the diagonal risers specified in her original design to resist hogging, which had been removed in an earlier refit, were restored. The similar-sized had 36 inches (91 cm) of hog before refitting, when she was condemned as unsafe in 1994.\n\nDuring loading and discharging cargo, ships bend (hog or sag) due to the distribution of the weights in the various holds and tanks on board.\n\nSince the maximum amount of cargo that a vessel can load often depends on whether her Plimsoll mark is submerged or not, sagging can reduce her effective cargo capacity—especially if her loadline has already been reached prematurely due to the sag. \n\nThis is taken into account when calculating cargo, by applying what is called a \"3/4 mean draft\". This is also called the \"two-thirds mean correction\", directly derived from Simpson's first rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "961746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=961746", "title": "Horse opera", "text": "Horse opera\n\nA horse opera, hoss opera, or oat opera is a western movie or television series that is extremely clichéd or formulaic (in the manner of a soap opera). The term, which was originally coined by silent film-era Western star William S. Hart, is used variously to convey either disparagement or affection. The name \"horse opera\" was also derived in part from the musical sequences frequently featured in these films and TV series which depicted a cowboy singing to his horse on-screen. The term \"horse opera\" is quite loosely defined; it does not specify a distinct subgenre of the western (as \"space opera\" does with regard to the science fiction genre).\n"}
{"id": "35041704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35041704", "title": "Iceve-Maci language", "text": "Iceve-Maci language\n\nCeve (Iceve), or \"Iceve-Maci\", is a Tivoid language of the Cameroons. The divergent dialects are Ceve proper (Becheve), and Maci (Matchi, Oliti).\n"}
{"id": "39179510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39179510", "title": "Integrational theory of language", "text": "Integrational theory of language\n\nThe Integrational theory of language is the general theory of language that has been developed within the general linguistic approach of integrational linguistics.\n\nDifferently from most other approaches in linguistics, integrational linguistics emphasizes a distinction between \"theories of language\" and \"theories of language descriptions\". Integrational linguistics has therefore developed both a general theory of language and a theory of linguistic descriptions, the integrational theory of grammars.\n\nThe integrational theory of language contains two major subtheories: (i) the integrational theory of linguistic variability, which is 'conflated' with (ii) the integrational theory of language systems.\n\nOne of the most distinctive features of the integrational theory of language is its adherence to ontological explicitness and constructiveness: the ontological status of every linguistic entity postulated by the theory is clearly determined (explicitness), and every entity is a logical or set-theoretical construct ultimately related to a small number of sets of basic entities that include, in particular, objects and events in space-time (constructiveness).\n\nFrom its inception, IL has regarded linguistic variability, i.e. the changeability of languages along dimensions such as time, geographical space, social stratification etc., as an essential property of natural languages that has to be treated in any realistic theory of language; certain idealizations, such as Chomsky's 'completely homogeneous speech-community,' are rejected.\n\nThe Integrational Theory of Linguistic Variability thus aims at providing a theoretical framework for variation research (including studies in sociolinguistics, dialectology, and historical linguistics) and a basis for a realistic theory of language systems. The theory centers around the notion of 'idiolect,' in a specific sense of the term that avoids traditional problems: an idiolect is a homogeneous part of an individual speaker's share of a language (a speaker's total share of a language, called a 'personal variety,' is not an idiolect in this sense but is a set of idiolects). Such an idiolect, understood as an individual (linguistic) means of communication of a person during a certain period of time, simultaneously belongs to a certain period of the language, to a certain dialect, sociolect, register, medial variety, etc. A natural language (understood as a historical language during the entire span of its existence, or a period – a major temporal part – of a historical language) is construed as a set of idiolects, and each variety of the language is a subset of the language. Sets of idiolects (such as languages and their varieties) are called 'communication complexes.' The varieties of a language are given through its 'variety structure': a classification system whose source is the language itself.\n\nOntologically, an idiolect is construed as a (possibly infinite) set of abstract sentences: form-meaning pairs consisting, in the case of a spoken rather than a written or signed idiolect, of a structured phonetic sound sequence and a meaning of this sequence. For each idiolect in a language, there is a system (idiolect system) that specifies which form-meaning pairs are elements of the idiolect. Every idiolect system consists of (technically: is an \"n\"-tuple whose components are) a phonetic, phonological, morphological, syntactic, lexico-semantic, and sentence-semantic part; and each part determines a different type of properties that the form-meaning pairs must have in order to belong to the idiolect. In written idiolect systems, the phonetic and phonological parts are replaced by a graphetic and a graphematic part, in signed idiolect systems by a cheremic and a cherematic part. (There may be other components in addition to the ones listed above; the precise structure of idiolect systems is a matter of ongoing research.) The parts of an idiolect system are grouped into the sound system (script system, chereme system), the morpho-syntactic (or grammatical) subsystem, and the semantic subsystem of the idiolect system. (There is no pragmatic part or subsystem – 'pragmatic' properties of form-meaning pairs, as far as they are determined by the idiolect system itself, are covered by the semantic subsystem, or else indirectly by the idiolect's place in the variety structure.) Finally, a system for a language (or language variety) is a construct of properties shared by every system of every idiolect in the language (or language variety). Idiolects, varieties, languages, and their systems are all construed as extramental and abstract.\n\nSystems of idiolects (idiolect systems) and systems for languages differ from each other both ontologically and in their relation to speakers' minds. Idiolect systems are \"n\"-tuples (as specified above) whereas language systems are sets of properties of such \"n\"-tuples. Moreover, for every idiolect that is a means of communication for a given speaker, there must be a (psychological and physiological) internal basis in the speaker that corresponds to a system of this idiolect, but there is no such internal basis for entire language systems. From an IL point of view, distinguishing between language systems, idiolect systems, idiolects (themselves no systems), and speaker-internal bases for idiolects is a cornerstone for a realistic theory of natural languages and language use.\n\nA full representation of the Integrational Theory of Linguistic Variability and discussion of rival theories can be found in Lieb (1993); for the conceptions of languages and idiolects, see also Lieb (1983), Part A.\n\nThe Integrational Theory of Linguistic Variability is conflated with the Integrational Theory of Language Systems. The latter is concerned mainly with (i) making general assumptions on the properties of idiolect systems in arbitrary languages and (ii) developing a conceptual framework, and corresponding terminology, for their description.\n\nThe well-known problems in defining a truly universal terminology (applicable in the description of arbitrary languages) in the face of linguistic diversity are tackled in Integrational Linguistics by making a number of essential meta-theoretic distinctions, implicit in linguistic tradition but typically blurred in modern approaches.\n\nMost importantly, a distinction is made between the \"definition\" of a term and the \"identification\" of corresponding linguistic entities in given idiolect systems. For example, terms such as 'phoneme,' 'suffix,' 'verb,' 'singular,' 'accusative,' etc. are construed not as categorial terms (denoting sets of linguistic entities) but as names of two-place relations ('is-a-phoneme-of,' 'is-a-suffix-of,' etc.) between linguistic entities and idiolect systems \"S\" (e.g., SLEEP is-a-verb-of S, SCHLAFEN is-a-verb-of S, where S and S are, respectively, an English and a German idiolect system: one and the same relation [is-a-]verb[-of] holds between SLEEP and S, SCHLAFEN and S, etc.). Names for categories of a given idiolect system are then derived from such relational terms: the expression 'verb of S' denotes the set of all verbs of S (a category), i.e., denotes the set of all linguistic entities that are related to idiolect system S by the relation [is a ]verb[ of]. While the relational term 'verb' is \"defined\" in the Integrational Theory of Language Systems so as to allow for \"arbitrary\" idiolect systems, the corresponding categories (verb in S, verb in S, etc.) must be \"identified\" in a grammar for individual idiolect systems, and the identifying properties may vary greatly among the systems of idiolects in different languages or even within a single language. It is a task not of a general theory of language but of theories of individual languages or language varieties – e.g., of individual grammars – to formulate identifying properties for the entities (categories, etc.) postulated for the idiolect systems of a given language (or variety). (Consider, for instance, a language in whose idiolect systems \"S\" all infinitive forms of verbs – and only such forms – have a certain prefix, giving rise to an identifying property for the category infinitive-in-\"S\" in the idiolect systems of this language. Clearly, this criterion should not be used to define the term 'infinitive' in a general theory of language.) Given this distinction, a term like 'verb' may be \"defined\" by means of word- or sentence-semantic criteria; the syntactic nature of the corresponding categories in individual idiolect systems is still guaranteed by the fact that the categories can be \"identified\" by resort to the syntactic means of the idiolect systems (morphological marking, word order, intonation) and, possibly, properties of lexical meanings. Defining a term in a general theory of language does not, however, imply that there are corresponding entities in all idiolect systems (for instance, we can formulate a general definition of 'adjective' although there may be languages without adjectives).\n\nThe elements of a category in a given idiolect system may, and usually will, have additional relevant properties not needed for identifying the category. (In the above example, the infinitive forms may show certain tense distinctions.) Such properties must still be included in a \"complete characterization\" of the category. Finally, each entity proposed by a general theory of language or by a theory of an individual language, variety, or idiolect should also be \"justified\" by metatheoretic considerations. Consider, for example, the set of all adjective forms of a given English idiolect system whose sound sequences start with /bl/. Such a set should hardly be postulated as a syntactic category of this idiolect system, even though the set would easily be identified, and a corresponding term would easily be defined.\n\nFrom an IL point of view, distinguishing between the definition of a term, the identification and characterization of a corresponding entity in an individual idiolect system, and the justification for postulating such an entity in a theory of a specific language, is a prerequisite both for formulating a general theory of language (one of the main goals of linguistics) and for successfully integrating theories of individual languages or language varieties with such a theory. Integrational Linguistics appears to be the only modern approach to explicitly adopt the fourfold distinction between definition, identification, characterization and justification, implicit in Western linguistic tradition with its insistence on the \"semantic\" definition of many general terms used in identifying \"syntactic\" entities as described in individual grammars. — For a detailed discussion of the underlying metatheoretic principles, see, in particular, Budde (2000): chapter 1; for an application in a general theory of parts of speech, using German for orientation, see Budde (2000): chapters 2–10.\n\nReflecting the basic structure of spoken idiolect systems (see above), the Integrational Theory of Language Systems comprises Integrational Phonology, Integrational Morpho-Syntax (with Integrational Morphology and Integrational Syntax), and Integrational Semantics (Integrational Lexical Semantics, including morpho-semantics and word semantics, and Integrational Sentence Semantics). For medial types of idiolect systems other than the spoken one, suitable subtheories – corresponding to Integrational Phonology – are provided for but have not yet been worked out in detail (Integrational Graphematics for written, Integrational Cherematics for signed idiolect systems).\n\nThe most detailed representation to date of the Integrational Theory of Language Systems as a whole (excluding Integrational Phonology) is found in Lieb (1983): parts B to F); for Integrational Syntax see also Lieb (1993), for Integrational Semantics Lieb (1979, 1980, 1992). Integrational Phonology (the last component of the theory to be developed) is presented in Lieb (1998, 2008). For major applications of IL in linguistic description, see, for example, Richter (1988), Moltmann (1992), and Eisenberg (1998/1999),<ref name=\"Eisenberg 1998/1999\">Eisenberg, Peter. 1998/1999. \"Grundriß der deutschen Grammatik. Band 1: Das Wort\" (1998). \"Band 2: Der Satz\" (1999). Stuttgart: Metzler.</ref> concentrating on German; Sackmann (2004) for Mandarin Chinese; see also the contributions in Sackmann (ed.) (2008). The conception of (morphological and syntactic) paradigms, fundamental in IL, has recently been further elaborated in Lieb (2005).\n\nIntegrational Phonology is a 'declarative' two-level phonology that postulates two distinct levels (or 'parts') in the sound system of any idiolect system, a less abstract phonetic and a more abstract phonological one. Phonetic and phonological sounds are both conceived as sets of auditory properties of speech-sound events, hence, as abstract real-world entities. (Speech-sound events are concrete entities, located in space-time.) Phonological sounds differ from phonetic ones by a higher degree of abstraction: While sounds on the phonetic level (i.e., part) of an idiolect system contain all properties that characterize normal utterances of entities of the idiolect system, phonological sounds contain only those properties that are functional in the idiolect system, i.e., are relevant with respect to distinctions in the morphological, syntactic, or semantic parts of the system.\n\nPhonological words and morphs (on the phonological level) as well as phonetic words (on the phonetic level) are construed as 'structured sound sequences,' that is, ordered pairs consisting of (1) a phonetic or phonological sound sequence (called the 'basis' of the morph or word) and (2) a phonetic or phonological structure of the sound sequence – itself a pair of (2a) a constituent structure and (2b) an intonation structure of the sound sequence. ('Sequence' is understood in the Integrational Theory of Language in a specific, set-theoretical sense that allows for the limiting cases of empty and one-member or 'unit sequences.') The constituent structure relates parts of the sound sequence to one of the sound categories Vocalic-in-\"S\", Consonantal-in-\"S\", and VocalicGroup-in-\"S\", thereby determining a syllable sequence (possibly empty) for the sound sequence. The sound categories (simultaneously belonging to the phonetic and the phonological level) are uniformly construed as sets not of individual sounds but of sound \"sequences\" of the idiolect system, allowing a treatment of affricates and long consonants (elements of Consonantal-in-\"S\"), diphthongs and long vowels (elements of Vocalic-in-\"S\") and the like alongside simple vowels and consonants. The intonation structure assigns sets of 'auditory values' (pitches, degrees of loudness, phonation modes etc.) to the syllables of a (syllabic) sound sequence identified by the constituent structure. Prosodic phenomena in both accent languages and tone languages are then treated in a unified way: differences of tone or stress are represented through sets of auditory values directly within a specific component of a phonological word, namely, the phonological intonation structure, which is properly linked to the (syntactic) intonation structures of syntactic units in which the phonological word occurs; and tone languages differ from accent languages mainly in the way phonological intonation structures are 'processed' in syntactic intonation structures. The constituents of a structured sound sequence are connected through phonological relations (p-nucleus, p-complement, p-modifier).\n\nThe phonetic-phonological properties of an idiolect system are to a large degree determined by the way sound sequences combine to form more complex ones, and the way phonetic sound sequences are related to phonological ones. There is a 'connection function' on the phonological level that takes pairs of structured sound sequences and assigns to each pair another such sequence, and a 'connection function' on the phonetic level that takes such pairs and assigns to each pair a \"set\" of structured sound sequences. Both levels are connected through a 'variant relation' relating structured phonetic sound sequences to structured phonological sound sequences. While the two connection functions jointly represent the 'phonotactics' of the idiolect system, the variant relation is only partly analogous to the 'allophone' relation in structuralist phonology and avoids its problems (treatment of diphthongs, affricates etc.) by connecting structured phonetic with structured phonological sound \"sequences\" instead of connecting individual sounds. Phonetic variants of a complex structured phonological sound sequence may be determined not only phonetically but also phonologically, by underlying sequences on the phonological level. The variant relation is postulated as a third component of the sound system of an idiolect system, in addition to its phonetic and phonological parts.\n\nIntegrational Syntax is akin in spirit to Lexical Functional Grammar, notwithstanding basic differences, and includes essential ideas of Valency Grammar. Among modern approaches to syntax, Integrational Syntax may well be closest to the grammatical tradition as it has developed in the West since antiquity. In particular, Integrational Syntax is Word-and-Paradigm, an orientation that has recently been gaining followers also elsewhere in linguistics. Integrational Syntax is a surface syntax: no 'deep structures' and no empty syntactic units or categories are allowed; true, an 'empty phonological word,' properly defined, is assumed for the treatment of phenomena such as ellipsis, and the empty sequence is used to deal with so-called optional complements. Integrational Syntax is also a 'syntax as a basis for semantics' in the sense that every meaning of a complex syntactic unit is obtained from the lexical meanings of its primitive meaningful parts on the basis of one of its structures. (The nature of lexical meanings is specified in Integrational Lexical Semantics, while ontological questions regarding syntactic meanings and the details of syntactic-semantic meaning composition are treated in Integrational Sentence Semantics.)\n\nAmong the syntactic entities postulated in Integrational Syntax for the syntactic part of arbitrary idiolect systems, there are: syntactic base forms, syntactic units, syntactic paradigms, lexical words, syntactic categories (either syntactic unit categories or word categories), syntactic structures, and syntactic functions.\n\nA syntactic unit of an idiolect system is a sequence of syntactic base forms. (Again, unit sequences, but not the empty sequence, are allowed as a limiting case of syntactic units, that is, a syntactic unit may contain a single syntactic base form.) In a system of a spoken idiolect, the syntactic base forms are precisely the phonological words occurring in the phonological part of the system (analogously, for systems of written and signed idiolects).\n\nIt is an essential feature of Integrational Syntax that a clear distinction is made between lexical words and forms of lexical words (called 'syntactic word forms' or simply 'syntactic words'): every lexical word is an ordered pair consisting of a syntactic paradigm or 'word paradigm' (the form component of the word) and a concept that is a meaning of the paradigm (the meaning component of the word); a syntactic paradigm is a (non-empty) set of pairs, each consisting of a syntactic word form and a 'categorization' of the word form, that is, a set of syntactic categories such that the word form is an element of each category in the set; and any syntactic word form is also a syntactic unit, hence, a sequence (possibly, a unit sequence) of syntactic base forms (phonological words in the case of spoken idiolects). A given syntactic word form may combine with several categorizations within a single paradigm (syncretism); and a single paradigm may have a number of different meanings (polysemy), which leads to the same number of different lexical words (identical in their form components). Both the notion of paradigm and the notion of concept are generalized so as to allow for lexical words also where traditionally one would not speak either of a paradigm or of a lexical meaning.\n\nGiven the distinction between syntactic units (including syntactic word forms) and lexical words, two main types of syntactic categories are postulated for the syntactic part of any idiolect system. Type 1 syntactic categories (also called 'syntactic unit categories') are sets of syntactic units of the idiolect system, and include the syntactic constituent categories as well as word form categories like cases, numbers, tenses, and definiteness categories. The type 1 syntactic categories of an idiolect system are given through a classification system (a system of cross- and sub-classifications) on the set of all syntactic units of the idiolect system, called the 'Syntactic Unit Ordering.' Type 2 syntactic categories (also called 'word categories') are sets of lexical words. They include the 'parts of speech' of the idiolect system and their subcategories. The type 2 categories are given by the 'Lexical Word Ordering', a classification system on the set of all lexical words of the idiolect system. Both the Syntactic Unit Ordering and the Lexical Word Ordering are components of the syntactic part of an idiolect system.\n\nAny syntactic unit can be assigned at least one syntactic structure. The syntactic structures of a unit are to jointly represent all formal information (including intonation) that is relevant with respect to the syntactic meanings of the unit. This is achieved by construing the syntactic structures of a syntactic unit as triples consisting of (i) a constituent structure, (ii) a marking structure, and (iii) an intonation structure of the unit. The \"constituent structure\" identifies constituents of the unit by associating certain parts of the unit with syntactic constituent categories like Noun form, Verb form, Verb Group etc., and captures the positions of syntactic base forms within the unit. The formal conception of constituent structures developed in IL allows for easy surface treatment of discontinuous constituents (whose proper treatment was a key motivation, in early Generative Grammar, for deep structures) and avoids any restriction to binary branching with its well-known empirical problems. The \"marking structure\" contains additional categorial information beyond what is provided by the constituent structure. Each primitive constituent of the syntactic unit, that is, each occurrence of a form of a lexical word in the unit, is assigned a 'marking': a set of pairs each consisting of two sets of categories. The first set contains syntactic unit categories of which the word form itself is an element; more specifically, the set is identical with a categorization the word form has in the paradigm of a lexical word to which the word form belongs; if the word form has several categorizations in the paradigm, then all these categorizations appear as first components of pairs in the marking of the primitive constituent, thus, the marking has several elements. The second set contains word categories (in particular, government categories) characterizing the lexical word itself. Finally, the \"intonation structure\" is a sequence of modified intonation structures of the syntactic base forms occurring in the syntactic unit. The syntactic intonation structure is crucial for syntactic accents and for the distinction of sentence types (as far as this is based on intonation patterns).\n\nTraditional grammatical relations such as subject, object, attribute, etc. are reconstructed in Integrational Syntax as functions ('grammatical functions') taking 'syntactic quadruples' as their arguments. Each quadruple consists of (i) a syntactic unit (or concatenation of units) of an idiolect system, (ii) a syntactic structure the unit or concatenation has in the system, (iii) an assignment of lexical meanings to the primitive constituents contained in the unit given the structure and the system (called a 'lexical interpretation'), and (iv) the system itself. The values of such grammatical functions are two-(or more)-place relations among constituents of the syntactic unit. (Grammatical functions are only one type of 'constituent functions,' which also include 'scope functions' like negation and qualification, and 'phoric functions' like antecedent; and there are other types of syntactic functions besides the constituent functions.) Syntactic functions play a central role, via their semantic content, in the composition process by which syntactic meanings of a syntactic unit are constructed from the lexical meanings of its primitive constituents. Incorporating features of Valency Grammar, Integrational Syntax construes subject and object functions as derived from more basic complement functions that simultaneously cover all complements of a single verbal nucleus; it generalizes the notion of valency to arbitrary lexical words, excluding purely auxiliary words.\n\nThis reconstruction of traditional conceptions, which distinguishes between (universal) syntactic functions on the one hand and their values for individual syntactic quadruples on the other, again allows to formulate general \"definitions\" for the names of syntactic functions in the Integrational Theory of Language and to \"identify\" their occurrences in the syntactic units of specific idiolect systems by statements in a grammar. Such identification, relative to the syntactic structure and lexical interpretation contained in a given syntactic quadruple, typically depends on the marking structure more than on other components of the syntactic structure, or the lexical interpretation. In particular, government categories, given through classifications in the Lexical Word Ordering and contained in the marking structure, are crucial to identifying the values of the complement functions relative to the syntactic quadruple. Type 1 categories, contained in the marking structure, may also play a role in the identification of syntactic function values. For example, the identification of subject constituents as opposed to object constituents may depend on case categories (cf. German \"Der Kellner\" [NOM] \"mochte sie\". 'The waiter liked her.' vs. \"Den Kellner\" [ACC] \"mochte sie\". 'The waiter she liked.').\n\nIntegrational Morphology, concerned with the analysis of phonological words (and other medial types of syntactic base forms) into meaningful parts, is largely analogous to Integrational Syntax. The morphological entities postulated for any idiolect system are morphological base forms, units, paradigms, categories, structures, and functions as well as lexemes. Morphological base forms (morphs) are entities of the same ontological type as syntactic base forms, structured phonological sound sequences in the case of a spoken idiolect; morphological units are sequences of morphological base forms; and 'lexemes' are conceived as ordered pairs consisting of a morphological paradigm and a concept that is a meaning of the paradigm, similarly to the lexical words in syntax. For any syntactic base form there is a 'morphological analysis': a pair consisting of a morphological unit and a morphological structure of the unit. A morphological unit that is the first component in an analysis of a syntactic base form is a 'morphological word.' A morphological structure of\na morphological unit is a triple consisting of a morphological constituent structure, marking structure, and intonation structure. Two main types of morphological categories are assumed. Type 1 morphological categories (also called 'morphological unit categories'), given through the 'Morphological Unit Ordering' of an idiolect system, are sets of morphological units; they include morphological constituent categories, maximally, Stem form, Affix form, and Stem Group, as well as possible subcategories of Stem form and Affix form. Cross-linguistically, there must be stem forms in the idiolect systems of any language whereas the categories Affix form and Stem Group need not occur. Type 2 morphological categories ('lexeme categories') are sets of lexemes and are given through the 'Lexeme Ordering' of the idiolect system. They include the top-level lexeme categories Stem and Affix (comparable to the parts of speech in syntax) and their subcategories. Morphological functions (e.g., morphological complement, modifier, and nucleus) are comparable to grammatical functions in syntax in taking 'morphological quadruples' as their arguments and assigning relations among morphological constituents as values. They figure, via their semantic content, in morphosemantic meaning composition.\n\nThe \"lexicon\" of an idiolect system is construed as a pair consisting of the \"lexeme lexicon\" and the \"word lexicon\". The former is the set of all lexemes (hence, the source of the Lexeme Ordering), and the latter is the set of all lexical words (hence, the source of the Lexical Word Ordering), of the idiolect system.\n\nIntegrational Semantics treats lexical meanings (i.e., meanings of morphological or syntactic paradigms and their forms) as entities entirely different from syntactic meanings (meanings of simple or complex syntactic constituents obtained through syntactic meaning composition). Consequently, meaning composition, too, is construed differently for lexical and for syntactic meanings. Integrational Lexical Semantics (with Integrational Morphosemantics and Integrational Word Semantics as its parts) combines the psychological and the realist traditions in semantics. Lexical meanings are construed as concepts in a psychological sense: an \"n\"-place concept (with \"n\" > 0) is the property of being a (human) perception or conception in whose content a certain non-empty set of \"n\"-place attributes of real-world entities occurs as a subset. The set of attributes is called the (\"n\"-place) intension of the concept, and the set of real-world entities that have all attributes is called its (\"n\"-place) extension. The extension but not the intension may be empty. In the case of a 1-place concept, the attributes in the intension are properties, and the extension is a set of individual real-world objects. If \"n\" > 1, the attributes are \"n\"-place intensional relations between real-world entities, and the extension is the set of \"n\"-tuples of real-world entities among which the \"n\"-place relations in the intension hold. Such 'relational concepts' typically occur as lexical meanings of verbs and adpositions (prepositions, etc.) but also of other kinds of relational words. The only concept for which the notions of intension and extension are not defined is the (0-place) 'empty concept,' occurring as the meaning component of lexical words such as auxiliaries and modal particles, and of all affixes, that is, of linguistic entities whose contribution to meaning composition is not based on lexical meanings. Given the notion of empty concept, the IL conception of concepts is both flexible and powerful enough to assign meanings to lexical words of any kind.\n\nA conception is a mental state, and a perception a mental event, located in the brain of an individual. By identifying concepts not with such mental entities but with (extra-mental) properties of mental entities, Integrational Lexical Semantics can account for the potential intersubjectivity of concepts, a problem that any psychological meaning conception must face: while perceptions and conceptions are tied to an individual, a concept may well be a property shared by perceptions or conceptions located in different individuals.\n\nLexical meaning composition is based on morphosemantic composition functions whose arguments\nare (\"n\"-tuples of) concepts and whose values are again concepts. Such semantic functions occur in\nthe semantic content of morphological functions such as morphological complement, modifier, and nucleus, and operate on the basis of (morphological or semantic) application conditions.\n\nIn Integrational Sentence Semantics, sentence meanings are construed as intensional relations between potential utterances and potential speakers. For any syntactic unit that has a sentence meaning, the meanings of the unit jointly represent a necessary condition for successful utterances of the unit. Each (simple) sentence meaning consists of at least (i) a referential part: a set containing exactly one 'referential meaning' for each referential expression of the syntactic unit; (ii) a propositional part: a pair consisting of a directive part (determining a speech act type) and a proposition; and (iii) a propositional background, consisting of what the speaker co-expresses with the proposition. The referential part and the propositional background of a sentence meaning may be empty.\n\nSyntactic meaning composition is based on semantic composition functions associated with (i) the syntactic functions in an idiolect system, by the 'syntactic function interpretation,' (ii) with syntactic categories like tense or definiteness categories, by the 'syntactic category interpretation' (both are components of the sentence-semantic part of the idiolect system). Syntactic meaning composition starts from the lexical meanings of the primitive constituents in a syntactic quadruple: 'basic syntactic meanings' are pairs of a concept, assigned to a primitive constituent by the lexical interpretation, and a 'contextual embedding' of the concept that involves potential speakers and utterances. Next, basic syntactic meanings are transformed into 'intermediate syntactic meanings' for non-primitive constituents by means of syntactic-semantic composition functions that are associated in the idiolect system with syntactic functions such as complement and modifier. Finally, the intermediate (and, possibly, basic) meanings are further processed by semantic functions that are associated with the syntactic nucleus function, so as to yield 'complete syntactic meanings,' which are either referential meanings or sentence meanings.\n\nIt appears that Integrational Sentence Semantics combines the meaning-as-use tradition in seman-\ntics (relating sentence meanings to speakers and utterances) with features of the psychological tradition (lexical meanings as concepts in a psychological sense, speaker attitudes as essential to sentence meanings) and with features of the realist tradition (e.g., extra-mental status of lexical and of syntactic meanings, the compositionality principle for complex meanings).\n\n"}
{"id": "27630730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27630730", "title": "International Journal of Audiology", "text": "International Journal of Audiology\n\nThe International Journal of Audiology is a peer-reviewed medical journal covering research in audiology, including psychoacoustics, anatomy, physiology, cellular and molecular biology, genetics, neuroscience, speech and hearing sciences and rehabilitation devices. It is an official journal of the British Society of Audiology, the International Society of Audiology, and the Nordic Audiological Society.\n\nThe journal was established in 1962 as \"Audiology\", obtaining its current title after a merger with the \"British Journal of Audiology\", and \"Scandinavian Audiology\". It is published by Informa and the editor-in-chief is Ross J. Roeser (University of Texas).\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2011 impact factor of 1.396.\n\n"}
{"id": "8884677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8884677", "title": "Inverse copular constructions", "text": "Inverse copular constructions\n\nIn linguistics, inverse copular constructions, named after Moro (1997), are a type of inversion in English where canonical SCP word order (subject-copula-predicative expression, e.g. \"Fred is the plumber\") is reversed in a sense, so that one appears to have the order PCS instead (predicative expression-copula-subject, e.g. \"The plumber is Fred\"). The verb in these constructions is always the copula \"be\" (\"am\", \"are\", \"is\", \"was\", \"were\"). Inverse copular constructions are intriguing because they render the distinction between subject and predicative expression difficult to maintain. The confusion has led to focused study of these constructions, and their impact on the theory of grammar may be great since they appear to challenge the initial binary division of the sentence (S) into a subject noun phrase (NP) and a predicate verb phrase (VP) (S → NP VP), this division being at the core of all phrase structure grammars (as opposed to dependency grammars, which do not acknowledge the binary division).\n\nInverse copular constructions involve nouns and noun phrases, but they do not allow the post-copula nominal to be a personal pronoun:\n\nThe defining trait of the inverse copular constructions is that two counts of inversion appear to have occurred: the normal subject has inverted to a post-verb position, and the predicative nominal has inverted to the pre-verb position. The verb is a finite form of the copula 'be' (\"am\", \"are\", \"is\", \"was\", \"were\"). This type of inversion is generally NOT possible with other verbs.\n\nInverse copular constructions where the inverted predicative expression is a noun phrase are noteworthy in part because subject-verb agreement can (at least in English) be established with the pre-verb predicative NP as opposed to with the post-verb subject NP, e.g.\n\nIn the inverse copular constructions, the copula agrees with the singular predicative expression to its left as opposed to with the plural subject to its right. This phenomenon seems to be limited to English (and possibly French); it does not occur in related languages such as German, e.g.\n\nNor does it occur in some Romance languages, e.g. Italian:\n\nThe fact that English (unlike German and Italian) demands subject-verb agreement to occur with the pre-verb NP generates confusion about what should qualify as the subject NP. From a morphological point of view, the pre-verb NP in inverse copular constructions should count as the subject, but from the perspective of information structure (e.g. definiteness, old information, specificity), the post-verb NP should be the subject.\n\nInverse copular constructions challenge one of the major dogmas of the theory of clause or sentence structure, i.e. that the two basic constituents of a sentence - the noun phrase (NP) and the verb phrase (VP) - are associated with the logical/grammatical functions of subject and predicate (cf. phrase structure rules and sentence). In fact, copular sentences that maintain the canonical groupings are not adequate on empirical grounds, since a very unorthodox left-branching structure is necessary, or if one rejects the canonical groupings and positions the subject inside a VP-like constituent, then one has to assume that the subject NP and copula verb can form a type of VP to the exclusion of the predicative expression.\n\n"}
{"id": "13077199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13077199", "title": "János Kemény (author)", "text": "János Kemény (author)\n\nBaron János Kemény (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 5 September 5 1903 – Târgu Mureş, 13 October 1971) was a Hungarian writer, theater director, dramatist, and founder of the Marosvécs/Brâncoveneşti Helikon community.\n\nJános Kemény's mother, the actress Ida Berenice Mitchell (1871-1956), lost her husband, István Kemény, shortly after János was born and could not afford to support her four children. She therefore moved from the United States to her grandfather's house in Transylvania in 1904. János attended the Reformed College (denominational high school) in Kolozsvár/Cluj, and then enrolled in the fall of 1921 at the College of Land Cultivation in Vienna. He was married in 1923 to a woman of Scottish-Greek origin, Augusta Paton, daughter of William Roger Paton, and they had six children.\n\nIn 1926, János Kemény and Aladár Kuncz organized a literary conference of Transylvanian Hungarians at Kemény's estate in Brâncoveneşti, Mureş (Marosvécs) County. This led to the formation of the Helikon community, which from 1928 published the influential Hungarian literary periodical \"Erdélyi Helikon\". In 1930, Kemény was awarded the Corvin Wreath by the Hungarian Government.\n\nFor ten years from 1931, he headed the Hungarian Thália Theater in Kolozsvár/Cluj and also published literary work. Then from 1945 to 1952 he was among the founding organizers of the Székely theatre in Târgu Mureş (Marosvásárhely). However, he was obliged to do manual work in the communist period, before later finding a job in the library of Târgu Mureş (Marosvásárhely) art college and working on the Hungarian-language magazine \"Új Élet\" in the same city. A succession of his works appeared between 1957 and his death in 1971, but he managed to complete only one volume of a planned autobiography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43845827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43845827", "title": "Lexical diversity", "text": "Lexical diversity\n\nThe lexical diversity, or type-token ratio (TTR), of a given text is defined as the ratio of different unique word stems (types) to the total number of words (tokens). The term is used in applied linguistics and related fields as an equivalent to lexical richness.\n\nA problem with the lexical diversity measure is that text samples containing large number of tokens give lower values for TTR since it is often necessary for the writer or speaker to re-use several function words. One consequence of this is that lexical diversity is better used for comparing texts of equal length.\nIn a 2013 article Scott Jarvis proposed that lexical diversity, similar to diversity in ecology, is a perceptual phenomenon. Lexical redundancy is a positive counterpart of lexical diversity in the same way as lexical variability is the mirror image of repetition. According to Jarvis's model, lexical diversity includes variability, volume, evenness, rarity, dispersion and disparity.\n\nAccording to Jarvis, the six properties of lexical diversity should be measured by the following indices.\n"}
{"id": "47069109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47069109", "title": "List of Japanese interpreting and translation associations", "text": "List of Japanese interpreting and translation associations\n\nThe translation/interpreting profession and industry in Japan is very fragmented, with a plethora of associations, many funded by marketed as 'qualifications'.\n\nFounded in 1934, backed by the Ministry of Education (Japan) and Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Japan). Primarily literary; original/official representative of the International Federation of Translators.\n\nFounded in 1966, foundered in 1995. Had 13,000 “Licensed Technical Translators”.\nFounded in 1981, backed by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Despite a perception that members are primarily agencies, it has 130 corporates and 300 individual members.\nFounded in 1993 by Itagaki Shinpei, also a director of JTF, and winner of Asahi Shimbun, Japan Times and Itabashi Bologna Book Fair prizes. Apparently inactive from around 2012 due to Itagaki's ill health.\nFormed in 1980. Gave birth to JAT, but still has its own translator members, with a bias towards translators working for publication (somewhat like JST, but mainly Gaijin). Publishes the well-known Japan Style Sheet.\n\nFormed from SWET in 1985. Over 700 members, predominantly non-Japanese. Organizes biennial IJET International Japanese-English Translation conferences, monthly meetings and social events.\nFounded in 1986, backed by the Ministry of Labour (Japan). Connected with the BABEL university and publishing group.\nFounded in 1990 as the Interpretation Research Association of Japan (IRAJ) , later becoming the Japan Association for Interpretation Studies (JAIS) in 2000 and the current name in 2008. Around 350 members.\nFounded in 2004 by private company Chizai Corporation, focused on patents.\nFounded in 1968, following on from the (founded 1966).\nFounded in 1991, originally as .\nA collaboration between 5 private translation agencies.\n\nOrganized at Tokyo Medical University by J.P. Barron and Raoul Breugelmans, 1993-2012. It was an offshoot from JAT, focused on helping Japanese doctors communicate in English, with links throughout the world and some government funding. It created training resources such as actual video interviews with patients in Leicestershire (having various accents), and a 3-way glossary (Japanese, doctors' English, patients' English).\nFounded in 2006, but website apparently defunct as of around 2010.\nHas a Japan Chapter and West Japan Chapter, founded in 2008. The parent body was founded in 1986 in Massachusetts, and went 'international' in 2007; it has around 2000 members in total, and incorporates the (American) National Board of Certification for Medical Interpreters.\nFounded in 2011.\nFounded in 2011; around 30 members.\nFounded in 2014.\nFounded 1973, foundered 2008. Around 130,000 took its tests (通訳技能検定試験(通検) + ボランティア通訳検定試験（V通検）), of whom 38,000 passed.\nFounded in　2011.\nFounded in 2015; around 200 members (25 certified). Organizes annual JIF Japan Interpreting Forum conferences, quarterly seminars, and social events.\nFounded 1953. Not Japan-centric, but has 9 interpreters based in Japan.\nFounded in　1991. 3000 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "3370983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3370983", "title": "List of input methods for Unix platforms", "text": "List of input methods for Unix platforms\n\nThis is intended as a non-exhaustive list of input methods for Unix platforms. An input method is a means of entering characters and glyphs that have a corresponding encoding in a character set. See the input method page for more information.\n"}
{"id": "29533846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29533846", "title": "Low Bergish", "text": "Low Bergish\n\nLow Bergish, or Western Bergish, is a group of local languages of the Bergisches Land Region east of the Rhine in West Germany. It is part of the Limburgish language group, which extends far beyond the rivers Rhine and Maas into the Netherlands and Belgium. They are also part of the East Limburgish group, that is, the varieties of Limbugish spoken in Germany. They combine Low Franconian properties with some Ripuarian properties and are seen as the transitory dialects between them in the dialect continuum of Dutch and German.\n\nLow Bergish neighbors in the east to East Bergish, a variety of South Guelderish between the Limburgish language and Westphalian. In the south of Low Bergish is the Benrath line, border to the Ripuarian variety Upper Bergish or East Ripuarian.\n\nLow Bergish is also seen as parts of Meuse-Rhenish, which names a somewhat larger number of dialects. than the three groups having names with Bergish.\n\nAs opposed to linguists, laymen usually call their local Low Bergisch variety simply \"Bergish\" or \"Platt\" (); they do not distinguish between the dialect groups, when talking about local languages. People from outside the Rhineland often make even less distinctions and use the term \"Rhinelandic\" for the vernacular of an even larger region than Meuse-Rhenish.\n\nThe Low Bergish dialects were called only \"Bergish\" by early dialect geographers of Germany of the 19th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13788871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13788871", "title": "Marathi phonology", "text": "Marathi phonology\n\nThe phoneme inventory of the Marathi language is similar to that of many other Indo-Aryan languages. An IPA chart of all contrastive sounds in Marathi is provided below.\n\nVowels in native words are:\n\nThere are no nasal vowels.\n\nLike other alphasyllabaries, Devanagari writes out syllables by adding vowel diacritics to consonant bases. The table below includes all the vowel symbols used in Marathi, along with a transliteration of each sound into Latin script and IPA.\n\nMarathi furthermore contrasts with .\n\nThere are two more vowels in Marathi to denote the pronunciations of English words such as of in \"act\" and in \"all\". These are written as and .\n\nMarathi retains several features of Sanskrit that have been lost in north-Indian Sanskrit-based languages such as Hindi and Bengali, especially in terms of pronunciation of vowels and consonants. For instance, Marathi retains the original Sanskrit pronunciation of , , and . However, as was done in Gujarati, Marathi speakers tend to pronounce ऋ somewhat similar to , unlike most other Indic languages which changed it to (e.g. the original Sanskrit pronunciation of the language's name was ', while in day-to-day Marathi and Gujarati it is '. In other Indic languages, it is closer to \"\"). Spoken Marathi allows for conservative stress patterns in words like राम (\"rama\") with an emphasis on the ending vowel sound, a feature that has been lost in Hindi.\n\nThe table below includes all the consonant bases onto which vowel diacritics are placed. The lack of a vowel diacritic can either indicate the lack of a vowel, or the existence of the default, or \"inherent\", vowel, which in the case of Marathi is the schwa.\n\nUnlike most Indian languages, the Marathi language has multiple pronunciations for certain consonants (च, ज, झ and फ). This generally applies to pronunciations that were imported from Persian or English, but were tied to the existing Devanagari alphabet. The letter may represent (जग, \"jag\" 'world'), as well as (जागा, \"zāgā\" 'place'). It is not possible to determine which pronunciation is to be used without knowing the word or the context, unlike Hindi, where was added to represent . This pronunciation inconsistency is one of the most prominent difficulties for Marathi learners.\n\nA defining feature of the Marathi language is the frequent substitution of the consonant ल (la) in Sanskrit words with the retroflex lateral flap ळ (). For instance, कुळ (') for the Sanskrit कुलम् (\"kulam\" 'clan') and कमळ (') for Sanskrit कमलम् (\"kamalam\" 'lotus'). ळ is possibly an import in Marathi from Dravidian languages, although it may also have originated from Vedic Sanskrit.\n\nThe combination of the vowels with the d-series\nIn Marathi, the consonants by default come with a schwa. Therefore, तयाचे will be <nowiki>'təyāce'</nowiki>, not <nowiki>'tyāce'</nowiki>. To form <nowiki>'tyāce'</nowiki>, one should add त् to याचे, which would yield त्याचे.\n\n"}
{"id": "1967712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1967712", "title": "Medieval Unicode Font Initiative", "text": "Medieval Unicode Font Initiative\n\nIn digital typography, the Medieval Unicode Font Initiative (MUFI) is a project which aims to coordinate the encoding and display of special characters in medieval texts written in the Latin alphabet, which are not encoded as part of Unicode.\n\nMUFI was founded in July 2001 by a workgroup consisting of Odd Einar Haugen (Bergen), Alec McAllister (Leeds), and Tarrin Wills (Sydney). From 2006 to 2015, MUFI had a board of four members, consisting of the three founding members and Andreas Stötzner (Leipzig). Tarrin Wills is the single board member.\n\nIn medieval texts, many special ligatures, scribal abbreviations, and letter forms existed, which are no longer a part of the Latin alphabet. As few of these characters are encoded in Unicode, ligatures have to be broken up into separate letters when digitized. Since few fonts support medieval ligatures or alternative letter forms, it is difficult to transmit them reliably in digital formats.\n\nTo prevent the possibility of corruption of the source texts, the eventual goal of the MUFI is to create a consensus on which characters to encode, and then present a completed proposal to the Unicode. In the meantime, a part of the Private Use Area has been assigned for encoding, so these characters can be placed in typefaces for testing and to speed up the later transition to the final encodings (if the project is accepted). This was originally based upon work done by the TITUS project, which also deals with Greek, Cyrillic, Georgian, Arabic and Devanagari characters, As of Unicode 5.1, this proposal has been made, covering 152 characters, and most of these (89 in all) have been encoded in the Latin Extended-D block. Others are in the Combining Diacritical Marks Supplement (26 chars.), Latin Extended Additional (10 chars.), Supplemental Punctuation (15 chars.) and Ancient Symbols (12 chars.).\n\n, Junicode (GPL) is the first typeface to cover all of MUFI 4.0, also in its italic face. Prior to MUFI 4.0, there were some 39 code point conflicts with Junicode.\n\nThere are three typefaces that are confirmed to cover all of MUFI 3.0. These are Cardo, Andron Scriptor Web and Palemonas MUFI. Only the last one comes in four faces (regular, italic, bold and both).\n\nLeedsUni supports all of MUFI 2.0. Caudex, which is available at Google Fonts for embedding, claims to support most of MUFI 3.0, but is not listed on the MUFI homepage.\nAlphabetum has an almost complete coverage of MUFI 2.0 and some coverage of version 3.0, in addition to a complete coverage of MUFI 1.0. \n\nTITUS Cyberbit covers all of MUFI 1.0 and includes some additional characters at different places, as it predates the MUFI project.\n\nThere is a project to make available MUFI characters, including version 4.0 ones, in LaTeX.\n\nThe MUFI set includes standardized characters from many areas in the Basic Multilingual Plane and includes named character references (“entities”) for use in SGML and XML, especially in TEI formats such as Menota. It also specifies many characters that are not encoded in Unicode, yet, in the Private Use Area which is designated for such use. When MUFI PUA characters have been accepted for encoding they are removed from the PUA in subsequent versions. As of version 4.0 there are the following PUA assignments, organized into several sub-areas.\n\nSimilar initiatives have been founded for Early Cyrillic Symbols (\"Cyrillic Font Initiative\", CYFI) and others. They are coordinated in the Linguistic Corporate Use Area (LINCUA). UNZ is a set compatible with MUFI, but it is not a true subset since it contains PUA additions of its own. It is intended for blackletter fonts, their typographic ligatures in particular.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11659866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11659866", "title": "Milana Terloeva", "text": "Milana Terloeva\n\nMilana Bakhaeva () (born 30 December 1979 in Orekhovo, Chechnya), better known by the pen name Milana Terloeva, is a Chechen journalist and author of the 2006 French bestseller \"Danser sur les ruines — Une jeunesse tchétchène\". A refugee during the Second Chechen War, Milana was one of eight Chechen students at the University of Grozny selected to study abroad by the human rights organization Études Sans Frontières in 2003, and she graduated with a master's degree in journalism from the Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris in 2006.\n\nMilana was born in the small village of Orekhovo, sixty kilometers west of the Chechen capital Grozny and near the border of Ingushetia, and she lived with her parents and grandmother, who had survived the forced deportations of most Chechens to Central Asia on 23 February 1944. As a child growing up in the Soviet Union, the family was relatively well-off, but suffered due to the spiraling increase in crime after the dissolution of the Soviet Union. One night in January 1993, someone left a large iron case outside the family doorstep. Inside was the body of Milana's father, assassinated.\n\nAfter the beginning of the First Chechen War on 11 December 1994, Milana and her family first took refuge in their cellar, and lived without running water or electricity. As the situation in her village worsened further, her family took refuge in Grozny, which had already been ruined following the siege of the city. The family returned to Orekhovo at the end of the war in 1996, and they found that their homes had been extensively looted, and Russian soldiers living in her house had soiled everything with their excrement, including her prized ball gown, in an effort to humiliate them.\n\nWith the start of the Second Chechen War, Milana and her family sought refuge in Ingushetia along with hundreds of thousands of other refugees. She returned to Grozny six months later, and enrolled in the heavily damaged University of Grozny, studying the French language with dreams of continuing her education in Europe. She aspired to become a journalist so that she would be able to bring justice to victims of the conflict. A group of French students opposed to the new war in Chechnya started the organization Etudes Sans Frontières in March 2003 as a means for rescuing Chechen students from the war zone and providing them with a French education. (In 1997, Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov appealed to Western nations to allow Chechen students into their universities, as he dreamed of liberally oriented leaders who would be capable of rebuilding a society that had been destroyed by war. The call fell on deaf ears, and at the time only madrassas from Saudi Arabia and Pakistan opened their doors to Chechens). By that September, the organization had sponsored eight Chechen students, including Milana, to study in Paris.\n\nAs a journalism student at Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris, Milana excelled academically, graduating as the salutatorian in her graduating class in 2006. She also worked at the internationally circulated French newspapers \"Le Monde\" and \"Courrier International\" in August 2004. She also befriended the late journalist Anna Politkovskaya. Hachette Livre, the largest publishing house in France, contacted Milana to write about her experiences during the wars, and she wrote her autobiography, \"Danser sur les ruines — Une jeunesse tchétchène\" (\"Dancing on Ruins — A Chechen Youth\"), which describes the raids in which many of her family members were captured, her journey from Grozny to Paris, and of her experiences as a student at Sciences Po.\n\nDespite numerous job offers in Paris, Milana decided to return to Grozny, to open up an independent newspaper, but realized that she would be unable to because of current censorship and death threats. As of 2007, she is currently working on creating a European cultural center in Chechnya, working on a second book, on Chechen women.\n\n"}
{"id": "31628234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31628234", "title": "Narcissistic defences", "text": "Narcissistic defences\n\nNarcissistic defenses are those processes whereby the idealized aspects of the self are preserved, and its limitations denied. They tend to be rigid and totalistic. They are often driven by feelings of shame and guilt, conscious or unconscious.\n\nNarcissistic defenses are among the earliest defense mechanisms to emerge, and include denial, distortion, and projection. Splitting is another defense mechanism prevalent among individuals with narcissistic personality disorder—seeing people and situations in black and white terms, either as all bad or all good.\n\nA narcissistic defense, with the disorder's typical over-valuation of the self, can appear at any stage of development.\n\nThe narcissist typically runs through a sequence of defenses to discharge painful feelings until he or she finds one that works: \n\nSigmund Freud did not focus specifically on narcissistic defenses, but did note in \"On Narcissism\" how \"even great criminals and humorists, as they are represented in literature, compel our interest by the narcissistic consistency with which they manage to keep away from their ego anything that would diminish it\". Freud saw narcissistic regression as a defensive answer to object loss – denying the loss of an important object by way of a substitutive identification with it.\n\nFreud also considered social narcissism as a defence mechanism, apparent when communal identifications produce irrational panics at perceived threats to 'Throne and Altar' or 'Free Markets', or in English over-reaction to any questioning of the status and identity of William Shakespeare.\n\nOtto Fenichel considered that \"identification, performed by means of introjection, is the most primitive form of relationship to objects\" a primitive mechanism only used \"if the ego's function of reality testing is severely damaged by a narcissistic regression.\" \n\nFenichel also highlighted \"eccentrics who have more or less succeeded in regaining the security of primary narcissism and who feel 'Nothing can happen to me'...[failing] to give up the archaic stages of repudiating displeasure and to turn toward reality\".\n\nJacques Lacan, following out Freud's view of the ego as the result of identifications, came to consider the ego itself as a narcissistic defence, driven by what he called \"the 'narcissistic passion' ...in the coming-into-being (\"devenir\") of the subject\".\n\nMelanie Klein, emphasised projective identification in narcissism, and the manic defence against becoming aware of the damage done to objects in this way. For Kleinians, at the core of manic defences in narcissism stood what Hanna Segal called \"a triad of feelings—control, triumph and contempt\".\n\nHerbert Rosenfeld looked at the role of omnipotence, combined with projective identification, as a narcissistic means of defending against awareness of separation between ego and object.\n\nIn the wake of Klein, object relations theory, including particularly the American schools of Otto Kernberg and Heinz Kohut has explored narcissistic defences through analysis of such mechanisms as denial, projective identification, and extreme idealization.\n\nKernberg emphasised the role of the splitting apart introjections, and identifications of opposing qualities, as a cause of ego weakness. Kohut too stressed the fact in narcissism \"vertical splits are between self-structures (among others)—'I am grand' and 'I am wretched'—with very little communication between them\".\n\nNeville Symington however placed greater weight on the way \"a person dominated by narcissistic currents...survives through being able to sense the emotional tone of the other...wearing the cloaks of others\"; while for Spotnitz the key element is that the narcissist turns feelings in upon the self in narcissistic defense.\n\nKernberg emphasised the positive side to narcissistic defenses, while Kohut also stressed the necessity in early life for narcissistic positions to succeed each other in orderly maturational sequences.\n\nOthers like Symington would maintain that \"it is a mistake to split narcissism into positive and negative...we do not get positive narcissism without self-hatred\".\n\nArikan found that a stigmatising attitude to psychiatric patients is associated with narcissistic defences.\n\nThe twenty-first century has seen a distinction drawn between cerebral and somatic narcissists – the former building up their self-sense through intellectualism, the latter through an obsession with their bodies, as with the woman who, in bad faith, invests her sense of freedom only in being an object of beauty for others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35514851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35514851", "title": "Nindi language", "text": "Nindi language\n\nNindi is a minor Bantu language of Tanzania. Classified as Bantu N.10 by Guthrie and said to be close to Ndendeule, it is presumably one of the Rufiji–Ruvuma languages with the rest of the N.10 group.\n"}
{"id": "33299474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33299474", "title": "Pear language", "text": "Pear language\n\nPear is a moribund Mon-Khmer language of Cambodia. \"Pear\" is a pejorative term for the historical slave caste of the Khmer, but nonetheless is the usual term in the literature. Pear is spoken in 3–4 villages of Rovieng District, Preah Vihear Province, Cambodia (\"Ethnologue\").\n"}
{"id": "34569388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34569388", "title": "Pipe drift", "text": "Pipe drift\n\nPipe drift is a measure of the roundness or eccentricity of the inside wall of a pipe. \"API drift\" refers to primary specifications set forth in API Specification 5CT (ISO 11960), \"Specification for Casing and Tubing\". \"Alternate drift\" refers to alternate drift specifications listed in API 5CT. \"Special drift\" refers to industry drift specifications other than those found in API 5CT.\n\nDrifting means measuring a pipe's inner roundness. Drifting is typically performed by passing a cylindrical mandrel through the length of the pipe to detect occlusions. It occurs both at the pipe mill and in the field. Drifting is performed to ensure that tools, pumps, smaller pipe, and other items can be passed through the pipe.\n"}
{"id": "33575365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33575365", "title": "Polci language", "text": "Polci language\n\nPolci (Pəlci, Posə) is an Afro-Asiatic language of Nigeria. It is part of the Barawa cluster, which is in turn part of the West Chadic language family.\n\nThe Polci language is one of six dialect clusters of the Zaar subgroup of the Barawa branch of the Chadic languages. The Polci dialects are Zul, Baram, Dir, Buli, Nyamzak/Langas, and Polci proper.\n\nAn extinct dialect called Luri was possibly dialect of Polci as well, but it is not well attested.\n\nThere have been several attempts to clarify the linguistic situation in the southern and southwestern part of Bauchi State, Nigeria, of which the Polci cluster and Polci language are a part.\n\nIn 1971, John Ballard, working with the Department of Linguistics and Nigerian Languages, University of Ibadan, did an extensive linguistic survey of the Nigerian Middle Belt published \"Historical inferences from the linguistic geography of the Nigerian Middle Belt\". As a result, it came to light that there was a narrow corridor occupied by the speakers of Chadic languages in the southwest of Bauchi.\n\nIn the same year, Neil Campbell and James Hoskison from the Summer Institute of Linguistics carried out a linguistic survey of the Bauchi area. The survey, \"Bauchi Area Survey Report\" and published in 1972, listed the names, location and population of twenty four Chadic languages, which are very closely related to each other and are spoken to the south and west of Bauchi. They also collected word lists. However, no detailed analysis of linguistic data or language classification was included in either of these surveys.\n\nAlso in 1971, C. Hoffman published \"Provisional Check List of Chadic Languages\", which contained 17 languages divided into two sub-groups. This list was revised and amplified by Kay Williamson in a document handed out to students at the University of Ibadan, titled \"Chadic languages of Nigeria\" in 1972, to include 21 languages classified into three subgroups.\n\nWith this information, K. Shimizu set out in 1974 to list the languages belonging to the Southern Bauchi Group, to examine their geographical distribution, and to use valid linguistic data to come up with sub-classifications. The survey, published in 1978 and titled \"A survey report of The South Bauchi Group of Chadic Languages\" came to the conclusion that not all languages listed under the dialect continuum of the South Bauchi Group belonged there and came up with a much more extensive, new classification. This is also the work from which the Barawa subgroup name came from, which was found to be the term used locally in this area to denote the speakers of this dialect continuum. Much of the research done on Barawa languages, the Polci cluster, and Polci itself use this survey as an important reference.\n\nIn 1999, Ronald Cosper published \"Barawa lexicon: A wordlist of eight South Bauchi (West Chadic) languages: Boghom, Buli, Dott, Geji, Jimi, Polci, Sayanci and Zul\". It considered most of the languages to be endangered and found that most individuals who spoke any of these languages were also bilingual in Hausa, which may have had influence on their lexicons and grammars. The book contains a lexicon of 852 words from the different Barawa languages. The words are organized based on semantic and syntactic categories. Semantic noun categories are followed by adjectives, numerals, pronouns, prepositions, conjunctions and a number of categories of verbs. However, Cosper's work was seriously defective.\n\nSince then, the majority of the research on South Bauchi West (B.3) languages has been conducted by Bernard Caron, a faculty member at the French National Centre for Scientific Research, LLACAN. Caron’s research has focused on South Bauchi West and Polci cluster languages in particular. Many of his papers are available online and include topics such as linguistic classification, syntactic structures such as conditionals, and noun classes such as pronominal and number systems.\n\nPolci contains 35 consonant phonemes.\n\nPolci contains six vowels qualities, which can be pronounced as short or long.\n\nShort vowels: \n\nLong vowels: \n\nPolci is a three-tone language: Lo = à; Mid = a; Hi = á.\n\nPolci, being a South Bauchi West language, does not possess grammatical gender or nominal classes and as a rule, few nouns form a plural (morpho-lexical plural). The plural inside the NP (noun phrase) is expressed through the noun modifiers. There is no agreement between the verb and its arguments. However, plurality appears in the verb phrase in two places: (i) the formation of the imperatives (ii) a verbal derivation forming what has come to be called pluractionals.\n\nPolci has a decimal numeral system.\n\nConditionals generally are assumed to share their structure with topics. However, in Chadic South Bauchi West languages, such as Polci, conditionals share their structure with focus, not topic. In Polci specifically, focused constituents and conditional clauses appear on the left periphery marked by the identifying copula /kŒn/, ‘it is’. ].\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1205358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1205358", "title": "Postage due", "text": "Postage due\n\nPostage due is the term used for mail sent with insufficient postage. A postage due stamp is a stamp added to an underpaid piece of mail to indicate the extra postage due.\n\nWhile the problem of what to do about letters not paying the full correct fee had existed since the creation of regular postal systems, it was greatly heightened by the advent of postage stamps, since customers were now making their own decisions about the right amount to pay, without the assistance of a presumably knowledgeable postal clerk.\n\nWhile at various times some countries have simply adopted the expedient of returning the letter to the sender, many others have taken the approach of delivering the letter and collecting the fee from the recipient. Initially the process was handled by a clerk writing something like \"Due 3 cents\" on the cover, but this was subject to abuse by mail carriers, who might write it on themselves and pocket the difference.\nThe problem of underpaid foreign mail was one of the issues addressed by the 1874 establishment of the Universal Postal Union. The U.P.U. arrived at the decision that mail with insufficient postage should be marked with a \"T\" and from April 1, 1879 the amount missing would also be indicated in black. Later more countries started to use handstamps to indicate the amount due. Later the combination of handstamps with both the \"T\" and the amount missing came into use. From October 1, 1907 the rules were changed. The amount due would be charged instead of the amount missing would be indicated. The amount charged was usually double the amount that was missing.\n\nThe problem was solved by France in 1859, with the issuance of official postage due stamps, affixed at the delivery office before being taken out to the recipients. Many other countries followed suit. (Occasionally, regular postage stamps have been used to fulfill a postage due function.)\n\nPostage due stamps (or \"labels\", to clarify that they have no value of their own) are not always affixed to individual letters; in the case of business mail, the total due might be summed, and the appropriate stamps added to the top letter in a bundle, or to a bundle's wrapper. The labels have also been used to collect money for other purposes, such as magazine subscriptions.\n\nSince postage due stamps are almost always used only within a single country, they are usually quite simple in design, mostly consisting of a large numeral, and an inscription saying \"postage due\", \"porto\", etc.; often there is no country name. As with definitive stamps, a variety of values are needed to make up specific amounts.\n\nA number of countries have discontinued postage due stamps. Britain, which first issued theirs in 1914 (and continued the same design until 1970), ended their use in 2000. The United States terminated them in 1986, although Postage meter labels were used after that date.\n\nWhile, technically, there is no reason for postage dues to reach private hands unused, postal administrations have sold them to collectors, and postage dues of many countries exist in large numbers, often unused and of low value. Conversely, surviving examples of valid postally used postage due stamps tied together by a dated cancellation or other postal markings with a postage stamp on cover are less common and are sought after by philatelists.\n\n"}
{"id": "4621146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4621146", "title": "ProEnglish", "text": "ProEnglish\n\nProEnglish is an American nonprofit organization that advocates making English the official language of government operations at all levels of government in the United States. The group supports making English the only official language of the United States. It is organized as a self-governing project of US Inc., a 501(c)(3) educational foundation in Petoskey MI, concerned with immigration, assimilation, and conservation issues. The group has also campaigned against immigration reform and bilingual education. \n\nThe Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) and Anti-Defamation League, which track extremist groups in the United States, identify the group as an anti-immigrant group. The SPLC designated the organization as a hate group.\n\nThe group was founded in 1994 as English Language Advocates., by John Tanton, M.D., a Petoskey, Michigan eye surgeon and a leading figure in the national immigration reform movement, along with three former board members of U.S. English who had resigned to protest that organization’s decision not to defend an Arizona official English law it had sponsored. Tanton co-founded US English in 1983 with U.S. Senator S.I. Hayakawa of California, but had resigned from it earlier following the disclosure of a joke deemed racially insensitive in an internal memo he had written). The organization is part of Tanton's broader \"loose-knit\" network of anti-immigration organizations; others include Californians for Population Stabilization, the Center for Immigration Studies, NumbersUSA, and Social Contract Press. As of 2015, ProEnglish \"is one of the few remaining groups in Tanton's network in which he remains actively involved.\" ProEnglish is a project of US Inc., a Petoskey, Michigan-based 501(c)(3) group that is also part of the Tanton network.\nThe group was originally based in Arlington, Virginia, where it shared office space with NumbersUSA. Its headquarters are now located in Washington, D.C. In 2010 ELA changed its name to ProEnglish. Robert D. Park was the first chair of the group. He was succeeded by Rosalie Pedalino Porter, EdD, a naturalized U.S. citizen and nationally recognized authority on the failures of bilingual education.\n\nThe group's former executive directors are K.C. McAlpin and Robert \"Bob\" Vandervoort. In 2016, Sam Pimm, former executive director of Young Americans for Freedom and former executive director of a pro-Ben Carson super PAC, became executive director of the group. Subsequently, Stephen D. Guschov, a lawyer who formerly worked at Liberty Counsel, because executive director of the group.\n\nProEnglish has been a major part of the \"English-as-official-language movement.\" The group also has opposed comprehensive immigration reform. The chief purpose of the organization at the time of its founding was to defend the Arizona \"Official English\" ballot initiative, which was adopted in 1988, overturned by the Arizona Supreme Court in 1998, and re-enacted in revised form by Arizona voters in 2006. The group has also supported federal English-only legislation, specifically the English Language Unity Act. In addition to seeking the enactment of laws and policies declaring English to be the official language, ProEnglish \"seeks to end bilingual education, repeal federal mandates for the translation of government documents and voting ballots in languages other than English.\" ProEnglish also opposes Puerto Rican statehood unless Puerto Rico were to adopt English as its official language.\n\nThe group's reported ties to the white nationalist movement have drawn scrutiny. The Anti-Defamation League wrote in 2014 that the group had a \"nativist agenda and xenophobic origins and ties.\" Robert Vandervoort of Illinois, the former executive director of ProEnglish, was head of the Chicagoland Friends of \"American Renaissance\", the racist magazine led by Jared Taylor that serves as an outlet for white nationalist ideology. In 2012, ProEnglish hosted a panel discussion at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) on \"The Failure of Multiculturalism,\" on which one of the panelists was VDARE founder Peter Brimelow. The Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks extremist groups in the United States, designated the group as a hate group in its 2014, 2015, and 2016 annual reports. The group has dismissed such criticism.\n\nProEnglish was a major backer of the unsuccessful 2009 Nashville Charter Amendment 1, a local \"English First\" ballot referendum in Nashville, Tennessee, which would have generally required government communication and publications to be printed in English only. ProEnglish donated $82,500, about 92% of the total amount raised by the referendum's supporters. The referendum was rejected by Nashville voters. In 2012, ProEnglish was the leading force behind a successful effort to make English the official language of Frederick County, Maryland; the county enacted an ordinance closely based on one drafted by the group. However, in 2015, the country repealed the ordinance, marking a defeat for the organization.\n\nProEnglish has also worked for the adoption of official English laws at the local level, most notably in Hazleton, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 2013, ProEnglish vocally opposed the comprehensive immigration reform bill sponsored by the \"Gang of Eight,\" a bipartisan group of U.S. senators. ProEnglish carried out a radio ad campaign against U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham, who was part of the Gang of Eight.\n\nIn 2014, ProEnglish criticized The Coca-Cola Company for airing a Super Bowl commercial that showed people of different ethnicities singing \"America, the Beautiful\" in a variety of languages. ProEnglish condemned Coca-Cola (saying the ad fostered \"disunity\") and urged its supporters to contact the company to express opposition.\n\nIn 2017, ProEnglish endorsed the section of the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act that calls for a merit-based legal immigration system in which applicants would get points for speaking English.In 2017, ProEnglish endorsed the section of the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act that calls for a merit-based legal immigration system in which applicants would get points for speaking English.\n\nIn 2005, ProEnglish was helping pay the legal fees of at least two employers who had an \"English-only rule\" requiring employees to speak only English while on the job. ProEnglish paid the legal fees of Terri Bennett, a former nursing student at Pima Community College (PCC) in Tucson, Arizona, \"who claimed she was wrongly suspended for complaining when fellow students spoke Spanish to one another in class.\" At trial, the evidence showed that Bennett had called Hispanic classmates \"spics, beaners and illegals\" and the Spanish language \"gibberish.\" A jury unanimously rejected the Bennett's claims, and in 2015 ordered her to pay $111,000 in attorney's fees to PCC.\n\nIn 2008, ProEnglish, along with the Pacific Legal Foundation, filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging 2004 U.S. Department of Health and Human Service regulations that required federally funded healthcare providers to provide translation services for patients who do not speak English. The challengers claimed that the regulations were an \"illegal intrusion\" on healthcare providers. U.S. District Judge Barry Ted Moskowitz dismissed the suit in 2009.\n\nIn \"EEOC v. Kidmans\" (2005), ProEnglish helped fund the litigation costs of a small drive-in restaurant in Page, Arizona, that was sued by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission after it refused to retract an English-on-the-job rule. The restaurant said that the rule was adopted to stop \"trash talking\" in the Navajo language among employees, most of whom are Navajo. The EEOC and the restaurant owners ultimately negotiated a settlement, in which the employees \"may require employees to speak English while dealing with the public, but not at other times.\"\n\nProEnglish opposes the method of teaching English language learning (ELL) students that teaches them basic courses in their native language while they learn English, known as ‘bilingual education,’ as a failed 40-year experiment. Instead, it favors the method known as ‘structured English immersion,’ in which ELLs are taught in English while being given supplemental learning assistance on the side.\n\nAccordingly, it backed successful citizen initiative that ended bilingual education programs in California (1998), Arizona (2000), and Massachusetts (2002), as well as one unsuccessful such citizen’s initiative in Colorado (2002). ProEnglish Chair Dr. Rosalie Porter co-chaired the English for the Children initiative in Massachusetts that passed with 68 percent of the vote. Much research comparing students in bilingual programs to students in structured English immersion consistently shows far better results in English immersion classes. \n\nExecutive Order 13166, also known as “Improving Access to Services for Persons with Limited English Proficiency,” states that any entity receiving federal funds must provide translations or interpreters for the services it provides in the language spoken by persons likely to use those services. It states that failure to do so is likely to constitute “discrimination on the basis of national origin” as prohibited by Title VI of the 1964 Civil Rights law.\nAn executive order signed by President Bill Clinton on August 11, 2000, the order directed all federal agencies to draft plans to “improve access to federally conducted or federally assisted programs for persons who, as a result of national origin, are limited in their English proficiency.” The mandate also applies to all state and local government agencies and their subdivisions, and government contractors that receive federal funds. \n"}
{"id": "34878326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34878326", "title": "Puari language", "text": "Puari language\n\nPuare (Puari) is a nearly extinct Papuan language of Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "1552010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1552010", "title": "Revival (theatre)", "text": "Revival (theatre)\n\nA revival is a restaging of a stage production after its original run has closed. New material may be added. A filmed version is said to be an adaptation and requires writing of a screenplay. Revivals are common in Broadway theatre.\n"}
{"id": "16925091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925091", "title": "Scratch vocal", "text": "Scratch vocal\n\nA scratch vocal is a vocal performance that a singer records to provide a reference track that music producers and audio engineers can use as they craft other pieces of the recorded song.\n\nMost of the time, the singer ultimately re-records the vocal performance after production is complete, however there are a number of exceptions to this rule such as in the case of The Piña Colada Song by Rupert Holmes where the re-recording lacked the desired energy and spontaneity - or in the reverse case of Superstar by The Carpenters where the scratch was so well performed that a re-record was deemed unnecessary.\n\nScratch vocals are also often used in the production of feature-length animated films to bring storyboards to life as \"animatics,\" in which storyboard frames are synced to the relevant dialogue, together with a rough soundtrack generated on a synthesizer. Scratch vocals may be obtained from professional voice actors (who may or may not be well-established in the voice-over community but are generally unknown to the general public) or from anyone around the studio willing to chip in a line or two (as well as friends or family members). For lead roles, scratch vocals are nearly always replaced in the final cut by vocal tracks recorded by bankable stars or experienced character actors. However, in the rush to meet deadlines, if the scratch vocals for a minor role are good enough, the director may skip auditions and simply use the scratch vocalist in the role. This is how many animation studio employees (and their friends and family members) end up with minor credits as cast members on their studio's products.\n"}
{"id": "15944570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15944570", "title": "Sheet of stamps", "text": "Sheet of stamps\n\nA sheet of stamps or press sheet is a unit of stamps as printed, usually on large sheets of paper based on the size of the printing plate, that are separated into panes that are sold at post offices. Where more than one pane is on a printed sheet they are arranged in a table-like arrangement. The spaces between the single stamps are all of the same size and provide space for a cut or perforation.\n\nToday, a sheet of stamps is the most common way of arranging stamps on the impressed paper. The number of stamps on a sheet and the format of the sheet depend on the size and format of the individual stamps. Small stamps are usually printed on sheets of a hundred stamps, although the Penny Black, as with other pre-decimal sterling currency stamps, were printed in sheets of 240; larger stamps are printed on sheets of fifty, twenty-five or twenty, as is done by the USPS.\n\nOn November 13, 1994, the Deutsche Post changed the format of its emissions to sheets of ten stamps each, due to reasons of efficiency. The edges of these sheets are specially designed, making them a novel field of collecting.\n\nIn fact, the term printing sheet refers only to a part of the actual \"printing sheet\". This is because stamps are mostly printed in four connected sheets, to make best use of the stamp paper. At the post office counter, only the four separated printing sheets are sold. Therefore, the sheet of stamps is also called a counter sheet or pane, though improperly called a sheet of stamps.\n\nThe empty fields connecting the single counter sheets are called gutters. Normally they are separated in the middle after printing in order to obtain four counter sheets. The half empty fields or gutters then form the edge of the sheet. However, from many issues, unseparated gutters with connected stamps of the neighbouring sheets come on the market (stamp - empty field - stamp). These gutters may be either empty or printed, if printed edges were intended.\n\nThe philatelist makes a distinction between \"horizontal and vertical gutters\". A specific characteristic of the gutters is the \"heart\" of the printing sheet, where all four panes are connected. Gutters and hearts are very popular with collectors and reach high catalog prices, especially for classic issues.\n\nSingle counter sheets do not always have to be separated by empty fields. Issues which were not intended to have edges were naturally manufactured without empty fields. To be able to distinguish between the single sheets better, the stamps were printed rotated 180° to each other along the separation line. Philatelists describe the two stamps which are upside down in relationship to each other as tête-bêche. Some issues have tête-bêches as well as gutters.\n\nLike gutters, tête-bêches are very popular with collectors due to their scarcity and decorativeness.\n\nThe stamps are arranged on the sheet in a table with rows and columns. Due to this arrangement, the location of each stamp can be precisely determined. The philatelist counts the single stamps horizontally from left to right, but the post counts them vertically from top to bottom. Accordingly, the third stamp in the sixth row of a sheet of 10 x 10 would be the 53rd stamp of the sheet for the collector, but the 26th stamp for the post.\n\nThe first postage stamps of the UK, the Penny Black, were printed in sheets of 20 rows and 12 columns, but the location on the sheet was indicated by different letters in the bottom corners of each stamp. An \"A\" in the lower left corner indicated the first row, a \"B\" the second one, the \"C\" the third one, etc. The columns were indicated according to the same scheme in the lower right corner. Thus the top left stamp had the letter combination \"A\" - \"A\", the bottom right stamp had \"T\" - \"L\". As a result, 240 different stamps were made for each plate used. This was intended to prevent forgery.\n\nThe term \"sheet edge\" refers to the empty fields connected to the stamps and arranged around the sheet. These fields are often unprinted. However, in many cases, quite a bit of interesting information can be found on them, e.g. printing dates or the like. The most important inscriptions printed on the edges of the sheet are:\n\nThere are several specialities of the printing of sheets. The most important are:\n\n"}
{"id": "6650456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6650456", "title": "Studies in Natural Language Processing", "text": "Studies in Natural Language Processing\n\nStudies in Natural Language Processing is the book series of the\nAssociation for Computational Linguistics, published by\nCambridge University Press.\nSteven Bird is the series editor.\nThe editorial board has the following members:\nChu-Ren Huang, Chair Professor of Applied Chinese Language Studies in the Department of Chinese and Bilingual Studies and the Dean of the Faculty of Humanities (The Hong Kong Polytechnic University),\nChris Manning, Associate Professor of Linguistics and Computer Science in the Department of Linguistics and Computer Science (Stanford University), \nYuji Matsumoto, Professor of Computational Linguistics in Graduate School of Information Science (Nara Institute of Science and Technology), \nMaarten de Rijke, Professor of Information Processing and Internet in the Informatics Institute (the University of Amsterdam) and\nHarold Somers, Professor of Language Engineering(Emeritus)in School of Computer Science (University of Manchester).\n"}
{"id": "4436310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4436310", "title": "Theta criterion", "text": "Theta criterion\n\nThe theta-criterion (also named θ-criterion) is a constraint on x-bar theory that was first proposed by as a rule within the system of principles of the government and binding theory, called theta-theory (θ-theory). As theta-theory is concerned with the distribution and assignment of theta-roles (a.k.a. thematic roles), the theta-criterion describes the specific match between arguments and theta-roles (θ-roles) in logical form (LF):\nBeing a constraint on x-bar theory, the criterion aims to parse out ill-formed sentences. Thus, if the number or categories of arguments in a sentence does not meet the theta-role assigner's requirement in any given sentence, that sentence will be deemed ungrammatical. . In other words, theta-criterion sorts sentences into grammatical and ungrammatical bins based on c-selection and s-selection.\n\nA theta-role is a status of thematic relation . In other words, a theta-role describes the connection of meaning between a predicate or a verb and a constituent selected by this predicate. The number, types and positions of theta-roles that a lexicon assigns is encoded in its lexical entry and must be satisfied in syntactic structure following Projection Principle. The selection of a constituent by a head based on meaning is called s-selection (semantic-selection) and those based on grammatical categories are called c-selection. Such information can be expressed with a theta grid.\n\nIn the example below the verb 'love' has two theta-roles to assign: agent (the entity who loves) and theme (the entity being loved). In accordance with the theta-criterion, each theta-role must have its argument counterpart.\n\nIn Example 1a, Megan and Kevin are the arguments that the verb assigns the agent and theme theta-roles to, respectively. Because there is a one-to-one mapping of argument to theta-role, the theta-criterion is satisfied and the sentence is deemed grammatical . Below are two examples where the theta-criterion has not been fulfilled and are thus ungrammatical.\nExample 1b is ungrammatical (marked with *) because there are more theta-roles available than there are arguments. The theta-role theme does not have an argument matched to it. On the other hand, in example (1c), there are more arguments than theta-roles. Both theta-roles are matched to arguments (Megan with Agent and Jason with theme), but there is an argument left without a corresponding theta-role (Kevin has no theta-role) . Thus for reasons of inequality in number between theta-roles and arguments, with either having more than the other, the result will be ungrammatical.\n\nSince trace transmits theta-role, movements resulting in non-local relations between theta-role assigners and receivers in surface structure don't violate theta-criterion. This allows us to generate sentences with DP-raising, head movement, wh-movement, etc. However, if a phrase occupies a theta-position (complement or selected subject) in D-structure, it can no longer move to another theta-position or it will receive two theta-roles .\n\nVerbs that can be either transitive or intransitive at the first glance could present a problem for the theta-criterion. For a transitive verb, such as \"hit,\" we assign the theta-roles agent and theme to the arguments, as shown in (2b), (2c), and (2d):\n\nThe action of hitting here requires an animate subject, an agent, carry out the action. The theme is then someone or something that undergoes the action.\nFor an intransitive verb, such as \"arrive,\" we assign the theta-role theme to the sole argument, since \"Mary\" is the one the undergoes the action:\nThe theta-criterion assigns the theta-role in the underlying structure, as shown by (3c). The past-tense morpheme then requires a subject at the spec-TP position and forces the movement of \"Mary,\" as shown by (3d).\nA verb like \"eat\" can choose to take an object, as shown in (4):\n\nFor this type of verb, the potential object is usually semantically limited and therefore can be inferred from the verb at a default value . For instance, for (4a), the listener/reader automatically assumes that John ate \"something.\" What necessitates the object in (4c) is the distinction from the default meaning achieved by specifying what John ate . As a result, this type of verbs can be treated the same as transitive verbs. The theta-roles of \"agent\" and \"theme\" can be assigned:\nIn summary, by assigning the correct theta-roles, theta-criterion is able to tell the real intransitive verbs, such as \"arrive\" apart from verbs that can appear intransitive, such as \"eat.\"\n\nPRO (pronounced 'big pro') is a null pronoun phrase that occurs in a position where it does not get case (or gets null case) but takes the theta-role assigned by the non-finite verb to its subject. PRO's meaning is determined by the precedent DP that controls it . As theta criterion states that each argument is assigned a theta-role, and those theta-roles must consist of a syntactic category that the verb selects even when there is no overt subject. This is where PRO comes in to help satisfy theta-criterion by appearing as the null subject attaining the appropriate theta role .\nBelow is an example containing PRO in a sentence:\n\nExample (5a) is a raising sentence,and in contrast, (5b) is a control sentence, meaning it does not involve any DP movement. The PRO, which is a \"null DP\" is in the subject position of the embedded clause.\n\nSimilarly, example (6a) is a raising-to-object sentence; \"Brian\" raises to the object position of the verb \"want.\" In contrast, (6b) is an object control sentence. The verb \"persuade\" has three theta-roles to assign: \"agent\" to \"Jean\", \"theme\" to \"Brian\", and \"proposition\" to the clause [\"PRO to leave\"]. There is no raising, but there is a PRO in the subject position of the embedded clause that takes the verb leave's only theta-role, \"agent\". Since Brian does not receive theta-role from \"leave\", it only bears one theta-role, nor does PRO receive a second theta-role from \"persuade\". Every argument only receives one theta-role, and every theta-role of the two predicates is assigned to only one argument. The sentence is thus grammatical.\n\npro, also known as little pro, is an empty category that occurs in a subject or object position of a finite clause (finite clauses must contain a verb which shows tense) in languages like Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Chinese, and some Arabic dialects (; ). pro differs from PRO in that it contains case. The meaning of pro is determined not by its antecedent but by verb agreement in the sentence. The DP is 'dropped' from a sentence if its reference can be recovered from the context. For example:\n\nThe verb \"restituire\" 'give back' assigns three theta-roles, but there are only two overt arguments in the sentence. It ultimately satisfies theta-criterion because the role, theme, is taken by a pro, whose existence can be proved by the properly bound reflexive pronoun \"se stessi\". Compare (7a) with (7b) below:\nWhen the reflexive pronoun \"se stessi\" 'themselves' doesn't have a proper antecedent to co-refer to, the sentence can't be grammatical. This indicates that in (7a) \"se stessi\" must have a proper antecedent in the sentence—the pro that takes the theme role.\n\nCognate objects are nominal complements of their cognate verbs that are normally intransitive. For example,\nSuch a structure posed a problem for theta-criterion because normally the verb assigns only one theta-role, theme, which is already taken by the DP, \"John.\" The sentence should be thus predicted ill-formed. To explain the phenomenon, one way is to re-categorize such a verb as \"die\" so as to change the way it assigns theta-roles. For that purpose, (8) can be interpreted as follows:\nOr John \"underwent\" a gruesome death. If the verb \"die\" is essentially similar to the operation-verb \"meet,\" the cognate objects should be assigned a theta-role—one restricted to the nominal form of the verb head . In other words, \"die\" is now classified as a potentially transitive verb, assigning two theta-roles, agent to \"John\" and theme to \"a gruesome death.\" Such a possibility is falsified, however, because cognate object constructions cannot be passivized .\n\nAs we can no longer consider verbs that take cognate objects the same as potentially transitive verbs, argues, based on the framework of , that cognate objects are adjuncts rather than arguments, having the same meaning and structure as the manner adverbs in (12b).\nSuch an analysis restores cognate objects to the group of arguments satisfying the theta-criterion, as adjuncts, by definition, are not counted as arguments and therefore need not be restricted by theta criterion. The tree form (11c) shows the adjunct DP in its relative position.\n\nDeverbal nouns are derived from verbs and thus assign theta-roles as their verb stems do. For example,\n\nAccording to , the constructions in (10) are analogous to \"the barbarians destroyed Rome\" and \"destruction\" needs to assign theta-roles in line with theta-criterion. It assigns \"agent\" to \"the barbarians\" and \"theme\" to \"Rome\" so (i) is fine. The verb \"destroy\" alone doesn't obligatorily assign theta-role to its subject so (ii) and (iii) is well-formed, too. However, \"destroy\" must assign a \"theme\", so (iv) is ruled out.\n\nTheta-criterion experienced its golden age in the 1980s when people discussed its application to various languages and structures and developed many other theories from it. However, after the minimalist program challenged some cornerstones of government and binding theory, people started to question the validity of this criterion, especially the number of theta-roles allowed to be taken by an argument. Hornstein and Boeckx, for example, proposed that there is no upper limit on the number of theta-roles an argument can receive during derivation. In their theory, the function of selecting correct number of arguments is shouldered by case theory, and theta-roles are just features on verbs that needs to be checked .\n\n"}
{"id": "1282368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1282368", "title": "Underpinning", "text": "Underpinning\n\nIn construction or renovation, underpinning is the process of strengthening the foundation of an existing building or other structure. Underpinning may be necessary for a variety of reasons:\n\n\nUnderpinning may be accomplished by extending the foundation in depth or breadth so it either rests on a more supportive soil stratum or distributes its load across a greater area. Use of micropiles and jet grouting are common methods in underpinning. An alternative to underpinning is the strengthening of the soil by the introduction of a grout, including expanding urethane-based engineered structural resins.\n\nUnderpinning may be necessary where P class (problem) soils in certain areas of the site are encountered.\n\nThrough semantic change the word underpinning has evolved to encompass all abstract concepts that serve as a foundation.\n\n'Traditional underpinning,' the mass concrete underpinning method is nearly 100 years in age, and the protocol has not changed. This underpinning method strengthens an existing structure's foundation by digging boxes by hand underneath and sequentially pouring concrete in a strategic order. The result is a foundation built underneath the existing foundation. This underpinning method is generally applied when the existing foundation is at a shallow depth, but works well up to fifty feet (fifteen meters) deep. The method has not changed since its inception with its use of utilitarian tools such as shovels and post hole diggers. Heavy machinery is not employed in this method due to the small size of the boxes being dug. There are several advantages to using this method of underpinning, including the simplicity of the engineering, the low cost of labor, and the continuity of the structure's use during construction.\n\nThe beam and base method of underpinning is a more technically advanced adaptation of traditional mass concrete underpinning. A reinforced concrete beam is constructed below, above or in replacement of the existing footing. The beam then transfers the load of the building to mass concrete bases, which are constructed at designed strategic locations. Base sizes and depths are dependent upon the prevailing ground conditions. Beam design is dependent upon the configuration of the building and the applied loads. Anti-heave precautions are often incorporated in schemes where potential expansion of clay soils may occur.\n\nMini-piles have the greatest use where ground conditions are variable, where access is restrictive, where environmental pollution aspects are significant, and where structural movements in service must be minimal. Mini-piled underpinning is generally used when the loads from the foundations need to be transferred to stable soils at considerable depths - usually in excess of . Mini-piles may either be augured or driven steel cased, and are normally between and in diameter. Structural engineers will use rigs which are specifically designed to operate in environments with restricted headroom and limited space, and can gain access through a regular domestic doorway. They are capable of constructing piles to depths of up to . The technique of minipiling was first applied in Italy in 1952, and has gone through many different names, reflecting worldwide acceptance and expiration of the original patents.\nThe relatively small diameter of mini-piles is distinctive of this type of underpinning and generally uses anchoring or tie backs into an existing structure or rock. Conventional drilling and grouting methods are used for this method of underpinning. These mini-piles have a high slenderness ratio, feature substantial steel reinforcing elements and can sustain axial loading in both senses. The working loads of mini-piles can sustain up to loads.\nIn comparison to Mass Concrete Underpinning, the engineering aspect of mini-piles is somewhat more involved, including rudimentary engineering mechanics such as statics and strength of materials. These mini-piles must be designed to work in tension and compression, depending on the orientation and application of the design. In detail, attention with design must be paid analytically to settlement, bursting, buckling, cracking, and interface consideration, whereas, from a practical viewpoint, corrosion resistance, and compatibility with the existing ground and structure must be regarded.\n\nMini-piled underpinning schemes include pile and beam, cantilever pile-caps and piled raft systems. Cantilevered pile-caps are usually used to avoid disturbing the inside of a building, and require the construction of tension and compression piles to each cap. These are normally linked by a beam. The pile and beam system usually involves constructing pairs of piles on either side of the wall and linking them with a pile cap to support the wall. The pile caps are usually linked by reinforced concrete beams to support the entire length of the wall. Piled raft underpinning systems are commonly used when an entire building needs to be underpinned. The internal floors are completely removed, a grid of piles is installed, and a reinforced concrete raft is then constructed over the complete floor level, picking up and fully supporting all external and internal walls.\n\nA mix of structural resins and hardener is injected into foundation ground beneath footings. On entering the ground the resin and hardener mix and expansion occurs due to a chemical reaction. The expanding structural resin mix fills any voids and crevices, compacts any weak soil and then, if the injection is continued, the structure above may be raised and re-levelled. This relatively new method of underpinning has been in existence for approximately 30 years, and because it does not involve any construction or excavation set-up, is known to be a clean, fast and non-disruptive underpinning method.\n\n"}
{"id": "51141614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51141614", "title": "Épinal-Erfurt glossary", "text": "Épinal-Erfurt glossary\n\nThe Épinal-Erfurt glossary is a glossary of terms. It consists of two manuscripts (Épinal and Erfurt), and contains terms in Old English.\n\nIt has been described as \"The earliest body of written English\", and is thought to have been compiled at Malmesbury for Aldhelm (c. 639-709).\n\nTwo manuscripts of the Glossary exist today: one in the Bibliothèque Municipale of Épinal, France, which was written in Southumbria in the last quarter of the 7th century and one in the Wissenschaftliche Allgemeinbibliothek of Erfurt, Germany, written at Cologne Cathedral in the first half of the 9th century.\n\nHenry Sweet published an edition of the Glossary in 1885 in \"The Oldest English Texts\" (Early English Text Society), reprinted in 1938, 1957 and 1966. J. D. Pheifer published \"Old English Glosses in the Epinal-Erfurt Glossary\" (Clarendon Press, ) in 1974.\n"}
{"id": "15994790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15994790", "title": "Ɗugwor language", "text": "Ɗugwor language\n\nƊugwor is a Chadic language spoken in northern Cameroon. Blench (2006) considers Mikere dialect to be a separate language.\n"}
