{"id": "31532495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31532495", "title": "A-SUN Energy", "text": "A-SUN Energy\n\nA-Sun Energy, also known as A-SUN, is a solar energy company that manufactures solar cells. A-Sun sells monocrystalline and multicrystalline modules for residential, commercial and industrial applications. In 2011, A-Sun provided the modules for the largest installation in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe company operates worldwide, with a factory based in China. The company’s headquarters are located in Hong Kong. A-SUN's products include both the raw material and the end products: photovoltaic cells, photovoltaic modules, and photovoltaic integrated systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "24789204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24789204", "title": "ANSI C12.20", "text": "ANSI C12.20\n\nANSI C12.20 is an ANSI standard that describes an American National Standard for Electricity Meters - accuracy and performance.\n\nThe C12.20 standard established the physical aspects and performance criteria for a meter's accuracy class. It refines certain details in ANSI C12.1 and ANSI C12.10.\n\nThe existing ANSI accuracy classes for electric meters are:\n\nOutside North America, IEC standards are used for electric meters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6521943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6521943", "title": "Aerobic granular reactor", "text": "Aerobic granular reactor\n\nAerobic granular reactor is a type of waste treatment facility.\n\nSewage treatment plants (STP) based on activated sludge often cover large surface areas, necessitated mainly by the large settling tanks. To build compact STP’s, biomass can be grown as biofilms on a carrier material, or as fast settling aerobic granular sludge without a carrier. Recent research showed the advantages of a discontinuously fed system, in which it is possible to grow stable granulated sludge under aerobic conditions.\n\nSimultaneous Chemical oxygen demand, and Nitrogen and Phosphorus removal, can be easily integrated in a discontinuous fed system. Because of the high settling capacity of the granules, the use of a traditional settler is unnecessary. Therefore the installation can be built very compact, needing only 20% of the surface area of conventional activated sludge systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23758980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23758980", "title": "Aitken Spence", "text": "Aitken Spence\n\nAitken Spence PLC (; ) is a Sri Lankan blue chip conglomerate with operations in South Asia, the Middle East, Africa and the Pacific. Listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange since 1983, it has major interests in hotels, travel, maritime services and logistics. The group also has a significant presence in printing, plantations, power generation, financial services, IT, BPO/KPO sector, elevator agency services, garments, and property development.\n\nAitken Spence has been recognised by Forbes as one of the most successful publicly traded companies with annual sales under US$1 billion outside of the United States, for three consecutive years. In 2012, Aitken Spence was adjudged the top winner of the Best Corporate Citizen Award in 2017 and 2012 presented by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and has retained the title for 11 consecutive years. The company is one of the first signatories to the UN's Global Compact in Sri Lanka.\n\nWhilst the roots of Aitken Spence can be dated back to Wilson & Archer Partnership of the 1830s in the early British Colonial Ceylon, the company began to take its current form after the signing of a formal partnership agreement between Thomas Clark and Patrick Gordon Spence—Scottish merchants and shipping agents in Galle—on 1 September 1868, wherein Clark Spence & Co. was established. Clark Spence & Co.'s trading segment at this stage included exports of natural vein graphite (plumbago), gems, hides, Sappan wood, ebony, coffee, coconut oil, coir yarn, bristle fibre, arrack, and citronella oil to United Kingdom, Continental Europe, United States of America and Australia; and imports of Burmese rice and coal for steamer ship bunkers.\n\nOn 5 April 1871, Patrick Gordon Spence, secured Clark Spence & Co. as the sole agent of Lloyd's of London in Ceylon. In order to service the Agency for the Lloyd's of London for the Port of Colombo, Clark Spence & Co. partnered with Britton, Aitken & Co. to open a branch office in Colombo. On New Year's Day, 1873, E.C. Britton opted out of the Britton, Aitken & Co. partnership, resulting in Patrick Gordon Spence, Edward Aitken and S.R. Aitken coming together to form Aitken Spence & Co. to manage the operations in Colombo, whilst Clark Spence & Co. continued in partnership to operate in Galle. In 1876, Aitken Spence & Co. obtained the Lloyds agency from Clark Spence & Co. Aitken Spence had also obtained the local agency of Morgan Crucible Company for trading in plumbago. As Colombo became the commercial capital of Sri Lanka, Aitken Spence & Co became more prominent and subsequently its partner company, Clark Spence & Co. originally based in Galle, became a subsidiary of Aitken Spence & Co.\n\nBy the 1880s, Aitken Spence had also secured the shipping agencies and Stoomvaart Maatschappij Nederland for Ceylon. The company moved into plantations sector as an agency house in the early 1900s and with the onset of the Great Depression, began to withdraw from its trading business. In 1918, Aitken Spence purchased the Freudenberg Building in Colombo, and made it its company headquarters having renamed the building as Lloyds Building. As a pioneer in port operations, Aitken Spence was entrusted in coordinating the Operations of Colombo Port during the Second World War.\n\nAitken Spence became a Private Company in 1952. In its centenary year, 1968, it appointed its first Sri Lankan Chairman, E.L. Van Langenberg. By 1971, as Sri Lanka was preparing to end British dominion and declare as republic, the company became a wholly Sri Lankan owned entity. In 1972, it began to offer shares to its executives, thereby broad basing its ownership. The company eventually moved on from this model and in 1983 offered its shares to the general public on the Colombo Stock Exchange with an issued share capital of Rs. 51 million.\n\nDuring the early 1960s and early 1970s, Insurance and Plantations sectors—which were core business segments of Aitken Spence, where the company had been well established at the time—were nationalized. However, the Group's marine insurance segment (including its Lloyd Agency) continued to operate as it did not fall within the purview of nationalization.\n\nDespite the setbacks from nationalization, in realizing the then government's thrust to boost tourism, Aitken Spence launched its tourism segment in 1972 with investments in its first hotel (Neptune Hotel in Beruwala, Sri Lanka opened in 1974). The company then entered into Aviation in 1974 (as general sales agent for Singapore Airlines in Sri Lanka). In consolidating its travel agency business that had begun with the launch of Aitken Spence Hotels in 1974, Aitken Spence set up Aitken Spence Travels in 1977 as inbound and outbound tour operators in Sri Lanka and as agents for Eurail and Britrail. Tourism is now a core business segment of Aitken Spence.\n\nWith Sri Lanka adopting open market economic policies focused on export led growth in 1977, Aitken Spence forayed further into new business segments : Container and allied services in 1979; Garments and apparels in 1979; International courier service agency with TNT in 1981; and Elevators in 1989 as agent of OTIS. With insurance sector being deregulated in the 1980s, the Group played a pivotal role in the resurgence of private sector insuarance as a proponent of the National Insurance Corporation and Union Assuarance Ltd, stakes in which Aitken Spence subsequently divested. Aitken Spence reentered Plantations sector, when the sector was reprivatized in 1992, through its stake in Udapussellawa Plantation PLC that was later divested.\n\nIn response to the Power Crisis in Sri Lanka in 1996, Aitken Spence began to explore investment opportunities in power generation sector, with first two power plants coming online in 2002. The Group also maintained container vessel operations, with acquisition of five ships in a joint venture with Ceyline Group in 2003, which it later divested in 2008. In 2010, in continuing its partnership with Ceyline Group, Aitken Spence invested in CINEC, Sri Lanka's largest private higher education institution. In 2004, Aitken Spence Travels partnered with TUI Group of Germany to form a joint venture that is the largest leisure, travel and tourism company in the world.\n\nAitken Spence was the first Sri Lankan resort operator to embark on overseas resort operations having acquired Bathala Island Resort of Maldives in 1993. In 1996, Aitken Spence entered Bangladesh through Aitken Spence Cargo with its shipping services. A decade later, in 2006, Aitken Spence entered the Indian hospitality sector, having secured management contracts for five hotel properties in India. On the same year, the company broke new ground by becoming the first Sri Lankan company to venture into port efficiency management outside of Sri Lanka, when it undertook to improve efficiency of ports in the African continent. The company increased its global presence even further by obtaining the management of four hotel properties in Oman in 2007. In 2013, Aitken Spence announced its proposed venture into Fiji to manage the Ports of Suva and Lautoka in a public private partnership with the Government of Fiji. The Group has expressed interest to further diversify its investments in Fiji, venturing into hospitality, power and printing sectors. Currently, the company has operations in eight countries (Sri Lanka, Maldives, Bangladesh, India, South Africa, Oman, Fiji and Myanmar), spanning several continents with 13,000 employees.\n\nAitken Spence is governed by the chairman and the board of directors and is managed by the Group Management Committee.\n\nThe current chairman of Aitken Spence is Mr. Harry Jayawardena. He is the founder director and current chairman/managing director of the Stassen Group of Companies – a diversified group in exports and import trade, the chairman of Lanka Milk Foods (CWE) PLC, Browns Beach Hotels PLC, Balangoda Plantations PLC, Madulsima Plantations PLC, Melstacorp PLC, Ambewela Livestock Company Ltd, Lanka Bell Ltd and also the current chairman of the Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka (DCSL) PLC.\n\nThe current panel of board directors includes Mr. Rajan Brito, deputy chairman/managing director; and executive directors Dr. Rohan Fernando, and Ms. Stasshani Jayawardena; and the non-executive directors Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe, Mr. Charles Gomez, Mr. Niranjan Deva Aditya and Mr. Rajan Asirwatham.\nGroup Management Committee is headed by Mr. Rajan Brito. The other members of the Group Management Committee are Dr. Rohan Fernando, Ms. Stasshani Jayawardena, Ms. Nilanthi Sivapragasam, Mr. Rohan Pandithakorralage, Ms. Nimmi Guneratne, Mr. Susith Jayawickrama, Mr. Dinesh Mendis, Mr. Prasanna Karunathilake, Mr. Leel Wickremarachchi, Mr. Nalin Jayasundera, Mr. Ranil De Silva, Mr. Keethi Jayaweera (resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2018), Mr. Iqram Cuttilan, Mr. Janaka Gunawardena, Mr. Surendar Mariappan, Mr. Jerome Brohier and Mr. Channa Gunawardana.\n\nAitken Spence PLC was adjudged the winner of the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Award 2017 conducted by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. The company has been ranked among the Top 10 Corporate Citizens for an unprecedented 12 consecutive years. Aitken Spence PLC won two category awards for Employee Relations and Community Relations, Triple Bottom Line Award for its work on Environmental Sustainability and was awarded the sector based sustainability champions for Diversified Holdings.\n\nAitken Spence's sustainability framework has been rated Platinum by STING Corporate Accountability Index 2018 for the 6th consecutive year and has been ranked among the top three companies in the index since 2011. Published by LMD bi-annually, the index rated the top 50 companies from the LMD 100 (excluding investment companies) as well as key state-owned enterprises on a holistic and integrated model covering corporate responsibility, sustainability and governance.\n\nSTING Consultants recognized Aitken Spence's Integrated Sustainability Policy as ‘Best in Class for Policy Coverage’ in 2011 and 2012. STING Consultants have also recognized Aitken Spence's Integrated Sustainability Policy as ‘Best in Class for Policy Coverage’ in 2011 and 2012.\n\nIn 2012, Aitken Spence was adjudged the Winner of the Best Corporate Citizen Award 2012 conducted by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. The Group was also recognized with sector awards in Economic & Governance sector and Environment sector during that year in addition to being credited with the category award for best Financial Performance. In 2013 and 2014, Aitken Spence was recognized as the second runner-up of the Best Corporate Citizen Sustainability Awards and was also recognized as the category winner for environmental management (in 2013) and environmental integration (2014).\n\nAs a result of the company's long-standing engagement with the local network of the UN Global Compact, Aitken Spence has been admitted to the board and the steering committee of the Sri Lanka Network. The company reports 'Advanced’ in the UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) which indicates that the company qualifies as GC Active and, in addition, cover the company's implementation of advanced criteria and best practices. Dr. Rohan Fernando, head of plantations and business development at Aitken Spence, was the former chairman of the Global Compact Sri Lanka Network.\n\nAitken Spence is amongst the first 38 companies in the world to endorse the Women's Empowerment Principles, a joint initiative of UN Women and UN Global Compact to promote gender equality in business, and the first company to do so in Sri Lanka.\n\nAitken Spence is also one of the first companies in Sri Lanka to pledge its support to the Caring for Climate initiative, which is a joint effort by UNEP, UNFCCC and UNGC to promote positive climate action in business.\n\nIn July 2013, Aitken Spence launched Empowering Sri Lanka First, an English and IT teaching program for children from its neighbouring communities as its flagship corporate community engagement initiative. The program enrols eight-year-old students for weekend English classes (180 children currently enrolled in pilot phase from Dambulla, Ahungalla, and Mawaramandiya) for a period of three years. The curriculum of the English program has been custom designed by British Council to complement Sri Lanka's local school syllabus and teachers from local communities trained on interactive pedagogy. Aitken Spence has announced its plans to commence the IT component of the program in September 2013. The project was recognized with a merit award at the Best Sustainability Projects Awards 2014.\n\nAs part of a broadbased diversification strategy, the sector embarked on a landmark project in the country's waste to energy sphere. Seen as a vital and much needed solution for the waste disposal crisis within Colombo city limits, the proposed project involves the construction of a 10MW waste-toenergy plant at Muthurajawela. The plant will be fuelled by waste collected from the Colombo Municipal Area, which was previously dumped in Meethotamulla. The plant is equipped to convert between 600 – 800 metric tonnes of municipal solid waste daily to electricity.\n\nMore information on the sustainability initiatives of Aitken Spence Group can be found in the Annual Report.\n\nAitken Spence operates a chain of 21 hotels and resorts in four countries: Sri Lanka, Maldives, India and Oman and currently is the largest hotel room inventory owned by a Sri Lankan resort company with a room inventory of over 2600 rooms of capacity. Its portfolio includes beach resorts and water villas, Ayurveda holiday resorts, and eco and culture resorts in the 3-5 star category.\n\nBrands of Aitken Spence Hotels include \"Heritance Hotels and Resorts\", \"turyaa by Heritance\", \"Aitken Spence Hotels and Resorts\" and \"Adaaran Hotels and Resorts\".\n\nAitken Spence is currently one of the largest resort operators in Sri Lanka. Also, under the Adaaran brand, is the largest international resort operator in the Maldives.\n\nAitken Spence Group first ventured into hospitality sector in 1974, with the opening of Neptune Hotel—designed by Deshamanya Geoffrey Bawa—in Beruwala, Sri Lanka. In July 2011, the Group rebranded the hotel as Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara after a major renovation wherein the hotel was converted to an Ayurveda wellness resort. In 2017, Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara, was accoladed with the internationally recommended Travelife for Hotels and Accommodations Gold Certification for the hotel's commitment to sustainability and ethical business practices. In 2018, Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara was recognized by , a leading provider of health and wellness travel, with the Quality Certificate in the category of ‘Ayurveda and yoga’.\n\nHeritance Ahungalla, formerly known as Triton, is Sri Lanka's first five-star beach resort—launched in 1981 in Ahungalla, a town in southern coastal belt of Sri Lanka. Originally designed by Deshamanya Geoffrey Bawa, the 152 roomed 5 star resort was relaunched under the Heritance brand in June 2006 subsequent to a US$13 million refurbishment. The hotel is the first hotel in Sri Lanka to receive the ISO 50001 certification for energy management. The five-star Heritance Ahungalla won the prestigious TUI Top Quality 2018. This was awarded from TUI Group, the largest leisure, travel and tourism company in the world.\n\nHeritance Kandalama, the flagship hotel of Aitken Spence, is located in Kandalama, Dambulla in proximity to two UNESCO World Heritage Sites— Sigiriya and Dambulla Cave Temple. The hotel is built into a natural rock outcrop within a jungle setting and overlooks the Kandalama Reservoir. Designed by Deshamanya Geoffrey Bawa, it is the first hotel outside the United States to receive LEED certified. The hotel was also the first in Asia to be Green Globe certified for its ecotourism best practices.\n\nHeritance Kandalama operates its own eco-park that houses a nature museum of animals in the Kandalama area, an animal rehabilitation centre (to treat injured animals), a herbal garden and plant nursery, a bee-keeping project, a waste-water recycling facility and a garbage sort out and recycling area.\n\nThe hotel is equipped with a conference hall to cater to the MICE market.\n\nHeritance Tea Factory is a concept hotel wherein a 61-year-old dilapidated tea factory has been remodelled and conserved as a hotel. Located in Heathersett Estate (25 acre tea estate), Kandapola in the Nuwara Eliya district, the 4 star resort is considered to be the highest elevated (6,800 ft above sea level) luxury hotel in Sri Lanka. Conceptualized by Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe, a former chairman and current board member of Aitken Spence PLC, and designed by Mr. Nihal Bodhinayake, the hotel came to operation in 1996. The hotel was awarded the Asia Pacific Heritage Merit Award in 2001 by UNESCO for preserving the tea factory and its colonial heritage. In February 2012, Heritance Tea Factory was also recognized by the Pacific Asia Travel Association(PATA) with the Grand Award, first Sri Lankan hotel to be so recognized, in the Heritage and Culture category. In 2014, Heritance Tea Factory's cultivation and processing of tea was certified to Sri Lanka Standards Institute's organic tea certification standards, being the first tea producer to be so certified in Sri Lanka.\n\nHeritance Negombo (formally known as Browns Beach Hotel) was rebranded as Heritance Negombo. This hotel is the latest to the Heritance portfolio that came on board in 2016. The premium brand portfolio offers novel 'city hotel on the beach' concept, which combines proximity and convenience with a resort ambience. In March 2016, TUI Group CEO Friedrich Joussen visited the 139-room hotel. The historic visit was organized by TUI's joint venture partner in Sri Lanka Aitken Spence Travels.\n\nTuryaa Kalutara is a 200-room property in Waskaduwa, Kalutara, which was formerly known as \"The Sands by Aitken Spence Hotels\", \"Ramada Kalutara\" and \"Golden Sun\". The hotel which initially held 112 rooms was relaunched as Turyaa Kalutara after an addition of new wing to the hotel in November 2015. Turyaa Kalutara is a beach-front resort with 200 rooms, equipped with private balconies.\n\nAitken Spence Hotels and Resorts currently operates the following hotels in Sri Lanka: Bandarawela Hotel, Earl's Regency and Earl's Regent- Kandy. In 2012, total ownership of Hotel Hilltop Kandy was acquired; however, in 2017, the Group divested its ownership of Hotel Hilltop Kandy and took on the management of The Regent Kandy, a newly refurbished property with a four-star rating located in the centre of the city.\n\nAitken Spence has previously announced its interest to develop its properties in Ahungalla and Nilaveli as resort properties.\n\nIn November 2013, Aitken Spence announced its plans to enter into a joint venture with Spanish hotel chain RIU Hotels to build a 500-room 5 star resort in Ahungalla to be opened in Winter 2015. The business model for the new hotel involves attracting long haul travelers to Sri Lanka through charter flight holiday packages facilitated by TUI. Model is set on Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport & Sri Lanka's Southern Expressway providing the connectivity for tourists—disembarking from TUI's weekly 787 Dreamliner Charters—to reach the hotel. In May 2015, Aitken Spence Travels partnered with and SriLankan Airlines to operate charters from Italy to attract 8000 tourists to this all inclusive 24 hour service hotel on a club med model.\n\nIn 2016, Hotel RIU Sri Lanka came on board with its 501 roomed partenership venture with Spanish Hotel Dveloper and Operator RIU Hotels. Although the majority stake is owned by Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC, day-to-day management is donw by RIU Hotels & Resorts.\n\nIn June 2014, Aitken Spence revealed plans to convert the Clan House, former headquarters of Clark Spence & Co. located within the Galle Fort, to a 15-room heritage boutique hotel.\n\nIn September 2014, Aitken Spence acquired a strategic stake in Amethyst Resort, Passikudah with the management rights.\n\nIn 2014, Aitken Spence Hotels partnered with SriLankan Airlines's FlySmiLes loyalty program, which allows frequent flyers on Oneworld carriers the opportunity to gain/redeem miles for their stay at any of Aitken Spence's Sri Lankan hotels.\n\nAitken Spence opened its School of Hospitality in November 2007 at Ahungalla, Sri Lanka with the assistance of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and Hilfswerk to bridge the skills gap in the tourism sector. The school was initially set up to recover from the Tsunami and assist locals in the Ahungalle region. However, since the ending of the war, the school serves to assist the development in the North and the East as well as other rural areas in the country. The school has so far provided training opportunities for marginalized youth from Uva, North Central, East and Northern provinces in food and beverage services. In 2015, 27 trainees having completed a 3-month basic course in food and beverage, graduated from the Aitken Spence School of Hospitality in Ahungalla.\n\nAitken Spence entered Maldivian hotel sector in 1993 with its investment in Bathala Island Resort. Aitken Spence is also the largest foreign resort operator in the Maldives and is among the five largest resort operators in the country.\n\nBranded as \"Adaaran\", the company currently operates 5 hotels in properties located on the islands of Vadoo, Meedhupparu, Rannalhi and Hudhuranfushi.\n\nAdaaran Club Rannalhi is a 4 star resort located in Rannalhi, a southern island in the Malé Atoll, with 30 water villas (one of the first resorts to adopt over-water accommodation in Maldives) and 100 beach villas with a room capacity of 132 rooms.\n\nAdaaran Prestige Vadoo resort, acquired by Aitken Spence in October 2007 is the latest addition to the Group's resorts in Maldives. Located in close proximity to Malé, it houses 50 luxury water villas including six Japanese styled water bungalows.\n\nAdaaran Select Hudhuran Fushi is a 4 star resort comprising 137 villas that includes 37 luxury villas.\n\nSituated on Meedhupparu Island in Raa Atoll, Adaaran Select Meedhupparu is a 4 star resort with 215 beach and garden villas.\n\nAdaaran Prestige Water Villas, also located in the Meedhupparu Island, consists of 20 luxury water villas. The 5 star resort was recognized as the World's Leading Water Villa 2010 at the World Travel Awards 2010.\n\nIn March 2015, Aitken Spence acquired \"Aarah\", another island property in Maldives in Raa Atoll, to develop a 163-room, USD $ 50mn resort, having received Maldivian Government's approval to expand buildable area in Maldivian archipelago.\n\nHeritance Aarah from Aitken Spence Hotels will be the group's first ‘Heritance’ property overseas. Heritance Aarah is scheduled to open in time for the winter season of 2018.\n\nIn May 2015, Aitken Spence obtained the lease for the Raafushi Island in the Noonu Atoll to build a four star resort.\n\nIn June 2014, Aitken Spence announced the purchase of a brand new five star hotel in Chennai. The company plans to commence operations of this hotel in July 2015 under the brand Turyaa Chennai.\n\nThe 140-room property, Turyaa Chennai opened its doors on 1st October 2015 and is located in the IT Corridor of Chennai and just a short drive away from the heart of the city. The property obtained the “5-Star Deluxe” classification in 2017, ranking it as one of five hotels in Chennai to have obtained this highly sought after accreditation. In 2018, the property was awarded the 'best five-star deluxe hotel’ in Tamil Nadu at the Tamil Nadu Tourism Awards 2018.\n\nIn Oman, Aitken Spence currently owns one hotel and manages five hotels:\n\nAl Falaj Hotel is a 140 roomed 4 star resort located in the city of Muscat. Aitken Spence bought the hotel from Oman Hotels and Tourism Company for whom the company had been managing the property since 2008.\n\nAl Wadi Hotel is a 79-room 3 star resort in Sohar.\n\nDesert Nights Camp is a 5 star tented resort property with 30 luxurious Bedouin style tents located in Al Wasil, a township close to Muscat.\n\nLocated in close proximity to Seeb International Airport, Ruwi Hotel is a 3 star hotel with a room inventory of 100 rooms.\n\nSur Plaza Hotel is a 4 star 95 room resort located in Sur in proximity to Green Turtle Beach at Ras-al-Hadd.\n\nJabal Akhdar Hotel is a 26-room boutique hotel located in Nizwa, 152 km from the Muscat International Airport.\n\nAitken Spence offers integrated transportation services in air-sea freight forwarding, warehousing, distribution, couriers, ground transport and marine. Its services cover the complete physical cargo flow process from shipper to recipient. It also handles third and fourth party logistics management contracts. The company also represents DB Schenker in Sri Lanka and Maldives. Also, represents DPD Group and DTDC Express in Sri Lanka and Maldives. The segment represents the cargo GSA for Qatar airways in Sri Lanka and the cargo GSA for Sri Lankan Airlines in Maldives and Myanmar, and are the managing agents for cargo GSA for Sri Lankan Airlines in Bangladesh. \n\nIn terms of cargo consolidation, the company offers both local and multi country cargo consolidation. In Sri Lanka, it operates its own container freight station with in-house customs that complies with C-TPAT standards. Aitken Spence Cargo and Courier services provide air freight, ocean freight, supply chain management, brokerage, project cargo management and international and domestic courier as primary services and also specialize in airline cargo GSA representation Aitken Spence Logistics. Aitken Spence Logistics also services shipments of garments through its garments on hanger facilities and quality assurance centre facilities. The company also offers refrigerated storage services in terms of cold rooms and reefer containers to its clients.\n\nWith respect to warehousing facilities in Sri Lanka, Aitken Spence operates a central cargo storage complexses with a total floor area exceeding 300,000 sqft, located in Colombo, Wattala, Mabole and Katunayake Zone with a modern fleet of equipment and cargo handling machinery.\n\nThe container services arm of Aitken Spence Logistics that processes a container every two minutes is the first company in Sri Lanka to operate its own container depot (first at Mattakkuliya in 1979 and shifted to Mabole in 1989). In addition, Aitken Spence also runs a Lloyd's approved facility for container modification and repair services.\n\nThe company provides import and export container handling services, handling transshipment cargo, and the servicing of passenger cruise vessels, car carriers and casual callers.\n\nAitken Spence also offers transportation through its transport fleet of prime movers with 20’/40’ trailers, lorries and tank trucks. The Group is also capable in handling Heavy Over-Dimensional Project cargo. It is also the agent for Flexi Tank Services in Sri Lanka for Trans Ocean Distribution.\n\nIn addition to its own haulage, Aitken Spence also provides freight forwarding through its global partner network. Aitken Spence Cargo, specialized freight-forwarding arm of Aitken Spence, provides air freight, sea freight, brokerage, customs facilitation and supply chain solutions to clients in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Maldives.\n\nAitken Spence handles cargo sales agencies for Singapore Airlines Cargo, Livingston Air, Air Jamaica, Air Italy, My Travels, Qatar Airways Cargo and EVA Air in Sri Lanka. It is also the General Sales Agents (Cargo) for My Travels in Maldives & Bangladesh; Livingston Air in Bangladesh, Singapore and Thailand; Continental Airlines Cargo in Bangladesh, while being the cargo sales agents for Livingston Air and SriLankan Airlines Cargo in the Maldives.\n\nAitken Spence Group represents TNT Express courier services in Sri Lanka and provides both domestic and international courier services. It also represents Spring Global Mail in Sri Lanka.\n\nAitken Spence offers services in the maritime sector through its maritime wing, Aitken Spence Maritime. Its services include liner agency representation(of G6 Alliance), cruise vessel representation, feeder and casual caller representation, break bulk facilities, and ship servicing and facilitation (crew services, bunkering, repairs, supply of provisions) for ports in Sri Lanka. It also provides ship chartering services.\n\nIn January 2005, in a joint venture with Ceyline Holdings, Aitken Spence re-entered the ship owning for time charter business in order to profit from the then shipping boom. In 2007, with the saturation of the ship chartering market, Aitken Spence exited the ship owning business and shifted its strategic focus to expanding its port management business. \nIn 2007, Aitken Spence in partnership with Port of Singapore Authority submitted a joint bid to build and operate the South Container Terminal of the Colombo Port Expansion Project. When the initial bidding process of Sri Lanka Port Authority (SLPA) stalled and was reactivated, Aitken Spence partnered with China Merchant Holdings International and was the sole bidder in support of the project. In 2010, the bid was approved by SLPA and construction began on the US$450 million project. However, in 2012, citing cost escalations and changes in financing requirements, Aitken Spence sold its stake to CMHI in 2012, realizing a LKR Rs. 630 million capital gain.\n\nAitken Spence is the first Sri Lankan company to venture into port efficiency improvement, training and container terminal management overseas with its operations in the African continent. As a result of the strategic partnership with the Port of Durban from 2006, Aitken Spence won a \"ship planning and mentoring\" project covering the Ports of Durban, Cape Town and Ngqura in South Africa in 2010. In 2011, Aitken Spence announced that it has won a deal to improve the efficiency of Port of Nacala in Mozambique. In 2013, Aitken Spence took over the management of two Fijian ports, Suva and Lautoka, with its purchase of 51% of Fiji Ports Terminal Ltd, a 100% owned subsidiary of Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd. The company further consolidated its presence in the Fijian maritime sector in acquiring a 20% stake in Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd. in November 2015.\n\nIn 2010, Aitken Spence renewed its alliance with Ceyline Group of Companies when it invested in Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College (CINEC). In 2012, Aitken Spence increased its stake in CINEC from 10% to 40% in a move to further strengthen its maritime portfolio. Located in Malabe, the CINEC Campus is Sri Lanka's largest private higher education institution and also has branches in\nColombo, Trincomalee and Jaffna. CINEC also manages the maritime academies in Fiji and Seychelles. In 2013, further to Aitken Spence's entry into port management in Fiji, Fijian Government announced plans to invite CINEC to manage Fiji National University's maritime school.\n\nIn the services sector, Aitken Spence operates in a number of key domains: inbound tourism, outbound travel, airline agencies, conventions and exhibitions, elevator agency, financial services, insurance, business and knowledge process outsourcing and luxury lifestyle solutions.\n\nWith regards to inbound tourism sector, Aitken Spence Travels – a joint venture with TUI—is the largest destination management company in Sri Lanka representing over 200 international tour operators, and has been recognized with Sri Lanka's Presidential Award for the Best Destination Management Company and leading Destination Management Company at the World Travel Awards in 2017. The outbound travel arm of Aitken Spence Travels is an IATA approved outbound travel agency and has been in operation since 1975, making it one of the oldest IATA agencies in Sri Lanka. In addition to its core business of airline ticketing, it is also the general sales agent for Rail Europe and Tradewinds. Aitken Spence Travels is also the representative in Sri Lanka for Carlson Wagonlit Travel, a leading global travel management company. Aitken Spence is also the preferred partner of Emirates Holidays in Sri Lanka. In financial year 2017/2018, Aitken Spence Travels handled over 178,000 tourists to Sri Lanka.\n\nAitken Spence Conventions & Exhibitions is the event management arm of the Aitken Spence PLC and is specialized in organizing Meetings, Incentives, Conferences & Exhibitions in Sri Lanka and the Maldives.Aitken Spence Conventions & Exhibitions The company also represents Pacific World MICE company in Sri Lanka and the Maldives.\n\nIn terms of airline agency services, Aitken Spence acts as the General Sales Agent for Singapore International Airlines in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Aitken Spence is also the General Sales Agent for SriLankan Airlines in Maldives.\n\nIn the financial services sector, Aitken Spence in a joint venture with Mercantile Merchant Bank, Sri Lanka offers Western Union Money Transfer services in Sri Lanka with a network of over 2000 sub-agent locations countrywide, which includes banks, financial institutions and retail outlets. As an authorized agent for Western Union in Sri Lanka, the Group's money transfer services business has a commanding 65% share of the Western Union business in Sri Lanka.\n\nAitken Spence serves as survey and claim settling agents for Lloyd's of London since 1876, covering the commercial ports in Sri Lanka and the Republic of Maldives. It also carries out quality surveys and hull and machinery surveys. In addition, Aitken Spence Insurance also acts as survey and claims settling agents for several other reputed insurance companies worldwide including AVIVA, People's Insurance Company of China, Oriental Insurance Co. of India, New India Assurance, Iffco-Tokio of India, Royal & Sun Alliance Group, Northern Marine Underwriters, China Pacific Property Insurance Co. Ltd, Sumitomo Fire & Marine Insurance Co. Ltd., Tokyo Marine & Fire Insurance Co. of Japan, Cesam of France, QBE Insurance of Singapore and American Home Assurance Company since 1949.\n\nThe Group also provides human resources consulting in Sri Lanka and overseas under brand \"Genuity\".\n\nAitken Spence Technologies offers IT in, Enterprise Content Management (ECM), Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), both based on core-Oracle Applications and Technologies, and Application Development based on Open Source/Java technologies. In 2012, Aitken Spence was appointed as Oracle University Education Re-seller Partner and Approved Training Centre. Aitken Spence Technologies is also a member of IBM PartnerWorld program. In October 2013, PlantERM, the Enterprise Resource Management application developed for the first time in Sri Lanka for the plantation sector by Aitken Spence Technologies, received the NBQSA Gold Award in the General Applications category.\n\nAitken Spence offers financcial accounting outsourcing services through its subsidiary Aitken Spence Business Solutions in Sri Lanka, Maldives and Bangladesh. The business solutions partners include; Citi Bank, HSBC, Deutsche Bank and Standard Chartered Bank on the electronic banking and Oracle in the ERP solutions.Aitken Spence Business Solutions\n\nAitken Spence also provides elevator services acting as the agent for OTIS Elevators (part of United Technologies Corporation) in Sri Lanka and Maldives since 1989.\n\nAitken Spence first entered the power sector in 1996 in a joint venture with a Japanese investor to build two thermal power plants in Sri Lanka with the Government of Sri Lanka inviting private sector to invest in resolving the then power crisis. However, due to the longevity of the process in obtaining clearances, the Japanese partner backed out and in 1999, Aitken Spence (51%) partnered with Commonwealth Development Corporation Globeleq (29%), Baneras House of India (10%) and Wartsila Finland Oy (10%) to construct the Ace Matara Power Station (24.4MW) and Ace Horana Power Station (24.4MW). Subsequently, following a Request for Proposal by Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) in February 2002, Aitken Spence together with Caterpillar Power Ventures Corporation began the construction of the Embilipitiya Power Station (100MW), which came online in April 2005. \n\nAce Power Embilipitiya thermal power plant opeartes on a 100MW while the Branford Hydro power plant operates at 2.5MW, Ace Wind power plant at 3MW and Western Power at 10MW capacity. The Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) between the Ceylon Electricity Board and Ace Power Embilipitiya lapsed in 2015; however, renewed the agreement for a one more year in April, 2016, when the country ran into power crisis after two back-to-back blackouts in late 2015 and early 2016. During the first quarter of 2018, the government decided to extend the purchasing of the thermal power for three more years as the country had four seasons of back-to-back dry spells, which exhausted reservoirs and the crucial catchment areas.\n\nAitken Spence has also sought to diversify its power portfolio with increased presence in the clean and renewable energy domain in Sri Lanka.\n\nAitken Spence Power has already completed construction of the 2.5 MW Branford Hydro Power Plant in Matale, and of Ace Wind Power power plant in Ambewela that has an installed capacity of 3 MW. Both power plants were connected to the national grid during 2012/13 financial year. Aitken Spence Power is also currently building the Aitken Spence Power Station, Waste-To-Energy Coprocessing Plant at Muthurajawela.\n\nAce Power embarked on a landmark project in the country's waste to energy sphere. Seen as a vital and much needed solution for the waste disposal crisis within Colombo city limits, the proposed project involves the construction of a 10MW waste-toenergy plant at Muthurajawela. The plant will be fuelled by waste collected from the Colombo Municipal Area, which was previously dumped in Meethotamulla. The plant is equipped to convert between 600 – 800 metric tonnes of municipal solid waste daily to electricity. Estimated to cost Rs. 13 billion on completion, the project is funded through a combination of equity and term loan funding. The construction work on the project commenced following the ground-breaking ceremony held in August 2017 with the participation of H.E. the president. This new waste to energy project is due to commence commercial operations in 2019. \n\nAitken Spence Hotels (through biomass plants and solar generation) and Plantations (through mini hydro projects) have also undertaken mini power projects of their own. Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara is the first hotel in Sri Lanka to enter into a net metering agreement with CEB.\n\nAitken Spence was the only Sri Lankan power sector Operations and Maintenance operator to have received ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications. The company has expressed its capacity to undertake operations and maintenance service contracts internationally.\n\nAitken Spence has been in the plantations industry from the early 1900s. In 1975, the estates originally owned by Aitken Spence were acquired under the plantation nationalization program. In 1992, with the re-privatization of plantations industry, Aitken Spence reentered the sector in taking over the management of Udapussellawa Plantation PLC. It also invested in a minority stake in Talawakelle Plantations. Aitken Spence later divested its stake in Udapussellawa and Talawakelle Plantations\n\nThe management of Elpitiya Plantations PLC was taken over by Aitken Spence in 1997 from Carsons through Aitken Spence Plantations Managements Ltd. The Group currently manages 13 estates (with over 8800 hectares of cultivated land) in Sri Lanka, producing high, mid and low grown teas. From the 13 estates, six estates are located on the up cluster in Kandy and Nuwara Eliya districts (estates: Dunsinane, Sheen, Fernlands, Meddecombra, New Peacock and Nayapane) and seven estates in the low cluster (Deviturai, Talgaswella, Gulugahakanda, Lelwala, Ketandola, Bentota and Elpitiya). These estates conform with multiple standards on sustainability\nincluding ISO 22000 for food safety management system, Rainforest Alliance certification, Ethical Tea Partnership and Forest Stewardship Council certification. In addition to tea, Elpitiya Plantations also produces rubber, coconut, cinnamon and palm oil.\n\nGroup has diversified its plantation operations into other areas such as palm oil processing, hydro power development, speciality tea manufacturing and eco tourism.Elpitiya Plantations\n\nThe Group also has its own tea brand for black tea and green tea in Sri Lanka under the name \"Harrow Ceylon Choice\".Elpitiya Tea\n\nIn January 2013, Elpitiya Plantations PLC entered a joint venture with Dianhong International Limited, Hong Kong, a subsidiary of Yunnan Dianhong Group Company Limited of China, to grow and process tea in Sri Lanka for Chinese Speciality Tea market.\n\nIn April 2013, shares of Aitken Spence Plantation Managements Ltd was introduced to the Colombo Stock Exchange.\n\nAitken Spence entered the garments manufacturing sector in 1979 with its factory at Mattakkuliya. Currently, Aitken Spence operates two factories in Sri Lanka—in Matugama (opened in 1993 in support of the 200 garment factories initiative of the then Government of Sri Lanka) and at Koggala Export Processing Zone (since 2008)—that manufactures and exports high-quality men's/boys shirts, ladies/girls blouses, ladies skirts, pants and shorts for clients such as The Gap, Inc., Columbia Sportswear, Kohl's and Sears in the US, and Marks & Spencer Work Wear, Sainsbury's, Tesco, Waitrose, Boots and Marriot in Europe.\n\nAitken Spence Garments have obtained a certification of Compliance+ from the Employers Federation of Ceylon and Platinum certified for compliance with Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production WRAP\n\nIn 1955, Clark Spence & Co. opened its own press to service its internal printing needs in Galle. Printing services were gradually opened for external parties and with the higher demand, the service offering was expanded with a full-fledged printing plant. Subsequently, in 1962, printing plant was moved from Galle to Colombo (Vauxhall St. Colombo 02 premises, where current Aitken Spence Group Headquarters is located) and ownership transferred to Aitken Spence & Co.\n\nIn 1977, whole printing department was burnt from a fire and its operations were halted. In 1982, a new printing plant was built at Bloemendhal Road, Colombo 13 to resume printing services. In 2010, due to capacity constraints, the company made a decision to relocate this printing plant yet again.\n\nIn recognizing the demand for environmentally friendly printing services, Aitken Spence invested US$7 million to construct Sri Lanka's first green printing facility at Mawaramandiya in Kelaniya. The new printing press commenced commercial operations in July 2012. \nAitken Spence Printing & Packaging is in line with global standards such as ISO 14001: 2015 system standard - environmental management system, ISO 9001:2015 system standard while prioritizing sustainability by conforming to OHSAS 18001:2007. The prestigious Glaxo Smith Kline (GSK) 2016 Environmental Sustainability Award was also won by the company been recognized for its 'Integrated Green Supply Chain Strategy'.\n\nCurrently the plant functions 24 hours a day, offering services to a wide cross section of sectors such as coffee table books, periodicals, magazines, and Annual Reports for local and international corporate clients. Aitken Spence Printing was the first printer to introduce the concept of printed, illustrated and bound Annual Reports for companies in Sri Lanka in the 1980s. Aitken Spence Printing also produces several magazines for different publishing companies in Sri Lanka, as well as paperback books for publishers in the UK and USA.\n\nThe production of printed packaging materials represents about 80 percent of business for the printing segment. In regards to packaging materials, it currently caters to major brands in garment industry, FMCG, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals in Sri Lanka. The company also caters to international clients such as Marks & Spencer, British Home Stores, Tesco and DBA Europe.\n\nIn October 2014, Aitken Spence invested in Eco Corp Asia, a company holding the exclusive rights in Sri Lanka to market nanotechnology based liquid glass coating product of Nanopool GmbH. The operation formulates specialized surface protection systems and applications on different materials utilizing nanotechnology; while introducing diverse innovative solutions for industries.\n\n"}
{"id": "22246660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22246660", "title": "American Clean Energy and Security Act", "text": "American Clean Energy and Security Act\n\nThe American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (ACES) was an energy bill in the 111th United States Congress () that would have established a variant of an emissions trading plan similar to the European Union Emission Trading Scheme. The bill was approved by the House of Representatives on June 26, 2009 by a vote of 219-212, but was never brought to the floor of the Senate for discussion or a vote. \nThe House passage of the bill was the \"first time either house of Congress had approved a bill meant to curb the heat-trapping gases scientists have linked to climate change.\"\n\nThe bill was also known as the Waxman-Markey Bill, after its authors, Representatives Henry A. Waxman of California and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, both Democrats. Waxman was at the time the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Markey was the chairman of that committee's Energy and Power Subcommittee.\n\nThe bill proposed a cap and trade system, under which the government would set a limit (cap) on the total amount of greenhouse gases that can be emitted nationally. Companies then buy or sell (trade) permits to emit these gases, primarily carbon dioxide . The cap is reduced over time to reduce total carbon emissions. The legislation would set a cap on total emissions over the 2012–2050 period and would require regulated entities to hold rights, or allowances, to emit greenhouse gases. After allowances were initially distributed, entities would be free to buy and sell them (the trade part of the program). Those entities that emit more gases face a higher cost, which provides an economic incentive to reduce emissions. Key elements of the bill include:\n\n\nAlternative compliance payments were $25/MWh in violation of the standard, adjusted for inflation beginning in 2010.\n\nThe bill's cap-and-trade program allocates 85% of allowances to industry for free, auctioning the remainder. The revenue from these allowances will be used to finance conservation of tropical forests abroad and to support low-income households. 30% of the allowances will be allocated directly to local distribution companies (LDCs) who are mandated to use them exclusively for the benefit of customers. 5% will go to merchant coal generators and others with long-term power purchase agreements.\n\nA study in June 2009 by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) indicated that the bill would be roughly deficit-neutral for the government over the next decade:\n\nThe study also indicated that the tax burden on individual households would be limited:\n\nThe analysis did not attempt to quantify the environmental benefits of reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The report also stated that the \"net financial impact of the program on households in different income brackets would depend in large part on how many allowances were sold (versus given away), how the free allowances were allocated, and how any proceeds from selling allowances were used. That net impact would reflect both the added costs that households experienced because of higher prices and the share of the allowance value that they received in the form of benefit payments, rebates, tax decreases or credits, wages, and returns on their investments.\" In other words, while a cap and trade system imposes costs on high emitters, it can generate revenues for low emitters that sell permits to them. While the government sets the bar on emission levels, the market determines who gains and who loses.\n\nThe bill is supported by a number of environmental organizations including, the Defenders of Wildlife, the Alliance for Climate Protection, the Environmental Defense Fund, the National Wildlife Federation, The Nature Conservancy, the Audubon Society, the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Sierra Club. The League of Conservation Voters threatened to withhold endorsements from any Representative who votes against the bill. In addition to environmental organizations the Energy and Commerce Committee received letters of support from a broad range of organizations, including the United Auto Workers, Exelon, General Electric, Dow Chemical Company, Pacific Gas and Electric Company, and DuPont \"The New York Times\" noted that \"industry officials were split, with the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers opposing the bill and some of the nation's biggest corporations, including Dow Chemical and Ford, backing it.\"\n\nThe Republicans for Environmental Protection (REP), a national grassroots organization, issued a press release after the vote stating \"House passage today of the American Clean Energy and Security Act is a step in the right direction in the fight against dangerous climate change and for developing cleaner, more secure energy resources.\" David Jenkins, REP vice president for government and political affairs, noted that \"Doing nothing is not an option. The costs and risks of failing to limit greenhouse gas emissions are too high. We owe it to our country and to our country's future citizens to take action. Today, the House looked to the future and did the right thing for our economy, security, and environment.\"\n\nThe Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimated the discussion draft version of the bill to cost average households $98–$140 per year. A preliminary update of this study says that the changes \"would likely result in lower allowance prices, a smaller impact on energy bills, and a smaller impact on household consumption.\"\n\nEconomist Paul Krugman argued for the bill in September 2009, while attacking the bill's opponents: \"It's important, then, to understand that claims of immense economic damage from climate legislation are as bogus, in their own way, as climate change denial. Saving the planet won't come free (although the early stages of conservation actually might). But it won't cost all that much either.\" During May 2009, he argued that a cap and trade system is better than a carbon tax. He explained how the incentives work\n\nEven when polluters get free permits, they still have an incentive to reduce their emissions, so that they can sell their excess permits to someone else. That's not just theory: allowances for sulfur dioxide emissions are allocated to electric utilities free of charge, yet the cap-and-trade system for SO2 has been highly successful at controlling acid rain.\n\nTia Nelson testified in support of the bill on April 24, 2009.\n\nCriticism has focused on ultimate costs and benefits of the plan. A report written for the conservative think tank The Heritage Foundation on the discussion draft of the bill claims that the economy would react to this cap-and-trade system like it would lead to an energy crisis. This same report also claimed that the impact on global temperature by the end of the 21st century would amount to a reduction of no more than 0.2° Celsius.\n\nEconomist Arnold Kling said the bill \"maximizes rent-seeking (favoritism toward particular businesses) and minimizes carbon reduction\". Other economists have argued that the bill will create significant financial costs. \"The Wall Street Journal\" accused the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) of significantly underestimating the bill's ultimate costs, pointing out supposed flaws in its calculations. The \"Wall Street Journal\" also suggested that the bill's costs would disproportionately affect lower-income households, for which the CBO estimates did not account. \"The New York Times\" reported that the bill's provisions to levy tariffs on Chinese imports due to carbon emissions could provoke a trade war. The Competitive Enterprise Institute argued that the bill was essentially the \"largest tax hike in world history\". The American Petroleum Institute, which represents the petroleum and natural gas industry, said the bill would place \"disproportionate burden on all consumers of gasoline, diesel fuel, heating oil, jet fuel, propane and other petroleum products\", and by 2035, it would cause gasoline prices in excess of $4.00 per gallon by today's standards.\n\nNuclear power plants generate minimal greenhouse gases, yet one critic wrote that the bill does not sufficiently advocate this clean power source. In response to this criticism, House of Representatives staff members wrote that the electricity generated by nuclear power requires the purchase of far fewer allowances than other forms of electricity generation; that the bill provides various types of financial support to build clean energy generating sources, including nuclear; and that an EPA study indicated that twice as many nuclear plants would be built if the law is passed versus the status quo.\n\nThere is criticism that unless China and India adopt similar emissions standards, the impact on global climate will be insubstantial. This is largely an argument based on the leading role these two countries have obtained in carbon dioxide emissions which could reach 34% of the global total by 2030.\n\nCritics also note that the bill would create the largest market in carbon in the world. It would also \"open up the so-called 'sub-prime carbon' market in carbon offsets, whereby industries can claim emissions reductions by investing in various projects around the world that theoretically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) claims it's virtually impossible to verify whether carbon offsets represent real emissions reductions. \"\n\nOn June 26, 2009, Reuters reported that \"[s]tates that have set the U.S. agenda on addressing greenhouse gas emissions are lining up behind a federal climate bill, fearing signs of dissent would weaken a plan that still faces hurdles\" The article noted that representatives from members of the Eastern U.S. 10-state Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, which joins six U.S. states with Canada's Manitoba, and the 11-state-and-four Canadian province Western Climate Initiative were supporting the legislation, even though the Eastern market member states, which have already been operating under a cap-and-trade system, \"would lose a direct revenue stream of hundreds of millions of dollars if the federal plan were passed.\" The three existing regional carbon cap and trade programs, which are in varying states of development, would likely be merged into the national plan, since \"the federal 'cap-and-trade' plan pre-empts any similar state scheme from 2012 to 2017.\" However, ACES leaves states the option of resuming trade of pollution credits after 2017 and \"would allow holders of RGGI allowances to convert them into federal allowances, which means the states will likely hold auctions until the federal plan begins.\n\nCitizens Against Government Waste named both Reps. Waxman and Markey the May 2009 Porkers of the month for \"adding and altering provisions to placate special interests and buy the votes of appropriately skeptical members of Congress\".\n\nWhile the Environmental Defense Fund and many other environmental organizations strongly support the bill, other environmentalists have sharply criticized the legislation in its present form as too weak and have called urgently for it to be amended so as to include additional and more vigorous measures to protect climate and natural resources.\n\nSome environmentalists have criticized the fuel efficiency standards in the \"cash for clunkers\" provision of the bill, because new cars would only need to get 22 MPG to be considered fuel efficient. New SUVs and pickup trucks would only need to get 18 MPG to be considered fuel efficient. Vehicles older than 25 years are not eligible for the program. CNN reported that \"One of the biggest criticisms is that it's not very environmentally friendly.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" has noted that \"while some environmentalists enthusiastically supported the legislation, others, including Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth, opposed it.\" Friends of the Earth, an international environmental organization, announced its opposition to ACES as they believed the bill was too weak. They cited support from Shell Oil Company and Duke Energy as evidence of the bill's shortcomings. They also objected to the removal of the EPA's existing authority to use the Clean Air Act to counter emissions of greenhouse gases. Environmental organizations critical of the bill said the bill fell short by allowing for 85 percent or more of pollution permits to be given away free of cost to the electricity sector. A coalition of environmental groups released a statement saying that \"to craft a bill that allows for 2 billion tons of offsets per year — roughly equivalent to 27 percent of 2007 U.S. greenhouse gas emissions — is to allow for continued and dangerous delay in real action by our country at a time when the world is looking to the U.S. for leadership on climate change.\" Critics of the bill were concerned about it not going far enough, and claimed that there were too many concessions made to special interests in rewriting the bill. Thus, making the bill weak and potentially harmful to the economy and environment.\n\nDr. James E. Hansen, one of the first to warn about the risks of climate change and an advocate of taking related action, also argued strongly against the bill: 1) It restricted the EPA's ability to regulate CO emissions from power plants; 2) it set \"meager\" targets for emission reductions, with only a 13% reduction by 2020; 3) it lacked certain controls important to the trading of allowances to emit carbon; and 4) it failed to set predictable prices for carbon, making it harder for businesses and households to make investment decisions. Dr. Hansen advocated a carbon tax rather than a cap and trade system.\nAlternatively, Senators Maria Cantwell and Susan Collins introduced the Carbon Limits and Energy for America's Renewal (CLEAR) Act. This bill proposed a Cap and Dividend approach in which 75% of the revenue is returned to taxpayers in the form of a dividend, and the rest is used to fund to development of renewable energy.\n\nNews agencies Reuters and Agence France-Presse and United Kingdom newspaper The Guardian reported the narrow passage of the \"historic\" legislation in the House, regarding the vote to be a \"major\" and \"hard-fought\" victory for President Obama, while an Associated Press article, carried by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, reported the vote to be \"a triumph for [the] U.S. President.\"\n\nThe New York Times commented that \"the House legislation reflects a series of concessions necessary to attract the support of Democrats from different regions and with different ideologies. In the months of horse-trading before the vote Friday, the bill's targets for emissions of heat-trapping gases were weakened, its mandate for renewable electricity was scaled back, and incentives for industries were sweetened.\" Business Week emphasized its perceived significance of the legislation and its passage in the House, declaring \"June 26, 2009, will go down as an historic moment in world's efforts to tackle climate change. For the first time, a Congressional body passed legislation that would place mandatory limits on the emissions of the greenhouse gases that cause global warming.\"\n\nIt was reported that the passage of ACES in Congress would increase the likelihood that a successor to the Kyoto Protocol would be adopted at the United Nations Climate Change Conference 2009 in Copenhagen. The Guardian US environment correspondent noted that ACES passing the US House of Representatives \"delivers an important boost to the prospects of reaching an agreement for international action on climate change at Copenhagen this year.\" The NYTimes noted that \"the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, who was in Washington on Friday to meet with Mr. Obama, strongly endorsed the bill even though it fell short of European goals for reducing the emissions of heat-trapping gases.\"\n\nIt was offered as a \"discussion draft\" in the House Committee on Energy and Commerce on March 31, 2009. A final version of the legislation was introduced on May 15, 2009 by the same title, assigned bill number .\n\nOn May 21, 2009, the bill passed out of the Energy and Commerce Committee by a vote of 33-25, largely falling along political party lines.\n\nRepublicans proposed over 400 amendments to the bill, the majority of which many think were proposed to delay passage. Some of the more prominent from both parties are listed below:\n\n\n\nBy the end of May 20, 2009, 2 Republican and 24 Democratic amendments had been adopted. 15 Republican amendments had been defeated. No amendment sponsored by a Democrat had yet been defeated.\n\nAt 3:47 AM on June 26, 2009, was reported to the house, which amended H.R. 2454, adding to the bill. This resolution was passed in the house just hours later at 11:21 AM. Republicans complained that neither the public nor the Representatives were given adequate time to study the 310-page amendment. Markey refuted Rush Limbaugh's assertion that the bill was not available at all, saying the bill was available to read on the Internet and at the reading clerk's desk since the 3:47 AM reporting.\n\nSpeaker Nancy Pelosi scheduled the vote for June 26, 2009. The week leading up to the vote was marked by courting moderate Republicans and on-the-fence Democrats from rural and coal districts to support the legislation in what was expected to be a close vote. On the day of the vote, Democrats were still working to ensure they had the votes needed to pass the bill. Republicans tried to pull back their proposed amendments, realizing they were giving the Democrats more time to corral votes, however, they were unable to pull their proposed amendments off the floor. Shortly before the vote, John Boehner read aloud to the House from most of the 300 page Manager's amendment that was filed at 3:09AM on the day of the vote. He voiced opposition to the practice of changing bills in the middle of the night before the vote, and concern that the Manager's amendment made substantial changes to the bill. He did not want the House to vote on the bill before the members could learn what was in the amendment, so he read much of it aloud. Manager's amendments are supposed to be for clerical changes only, not substantive ones. Patrick J. Kennedy (D-RI) returned from rehab to cast a 'Yes' vote, and Ellen Tauscher (D-CA) delayed resigning the House to vote for the legislation as well.\n\nThe bill was approved in the House by a vote of 219-212, with 8 Republicans supporting, and 44 Democrats voting against, and 3 members not voting. All Representatives present at the time of the vote had cast votes. Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), and John Sullivan (R-OK) missed the vote due to 'a family conflict,' travel abroad in Albania, and 'alcohol addiction treatment,' respectively.\n\nDemocratic votes against largely came from freshmen in Republican-leaning seats, conservative \"blue dog\" democrats, as well as Democrats from areas dependent on coal for electricity or areas with large numbers of manufacturing jobs. However, some Democrats from liberal districts, like Pete Stark (CA) voted against the bill because he considered the bill 'watered-down.' Dennis Kucinich (D-OH) voted against the bill because he considered the bill 'too-weak' and opposed offsets, among other similar criticisms.\n\nRepublicans supporting the bill were Army Secretary nominee John M. McHugh and moderate Republican Main Street Partnership caucus members Mary Bono Mack (R-CA), Mike Castle (R-DE), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Chris Smith (R-NJ). Kirk and Castle were members of the Republicans for Environmental Protection caucus.\n\nThe table below summarizes the required greenhouse gas emission reductions, with the benchmark of the 2005 emission levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "148550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148550", "title": "Antiferromagnetism", "text": "Antiferromagnetism\n\nIn materials that exhibit antiferromagnetism, the magnetic moments of atoms or molecules, usually\nrelated to the spins of electrons, align in a regular pattern with neighboring spins (on different sublattices) pointing in opposite directions. This is, like ferromagnetism and ferrimagnetism, a manifestation of ordered magnetism.\n\nGenerally, antiferromagnetic order may exist at sufficiently low temperatures, but vanishes at and above the Néel temperature – named after Louis Néel, who had first identified this type of magnetic ordering. Above the Néel temperature, the material is typically paramagnetic.\n\nWhen no external field is applied, the antiferromagnetic structure corresponds to a vanishing total magnetization. In an external magnetic field, a kind of ferrimagnetic behavior may be displayed in the antiferromagnetic phase, with the absolute value of one of the sublattice magnetizations differing from that of the other sublattice, resulting in a nonzero net magnetization. Although the net magnetization should be zero at a temperature of absolute zero, the effect of spin canting often causes a small net magnetization to develop, as seen for example in hematite.\n\nThe magnetic susceptibility of an antiferromagnetic material typically shows a maximum at the Néel temperature. In contrast, at the transition between the ferromagnetic to the paramagnetic phases the susceptibility will diverge. In the antiferromagnetic case, a divergence is observed in the \"staggered susceptibility\".\n\nVarious microscopic (exchange) interactions between the magnetic moments or spins may lead to antiferromagnetic structures. In the simplest case, one may consider an Ising model on a bipartite lattice, e.g. the simple cubic lattice, with couplings between spins at nearest neighbor sites. Depending on the sign of that interaction, ferromagnetic or antiferromagnetic order will result. Geometrical frustration or competing ferro- and antiferromagnetic interactions may lead to different and, perhaps, more complicated magnetic structures.\n\nAntiferromagnetic materials occur commonly among transition metal compounds, especially oxides. Examples include hematite, metals such as chromium, alloys such as iron manganese (FeMn), and oxides such as nickel oxide (NiO). There are also numerous examples among high nuclearity metal clusters. Organic molecules can also exhibit antiferromagnetic coupling under rare circumstances, as seen in radicals such as 5-dehydro-m-xylylene.\n\nAntiferromagnets can couple to ferromagnets, for instance, through a mechanism known as exchange bias, in which the ferromagnetic film is either grown upon the antiferromagnet or annealed in an aligning magnetic field, causing the surface atoms of the ferromagnet to align with the surface atoms of the antiferromagnet. This provides the ability to \"pin\" the orientation of a ferromagnetic film, which provides one of the main uses in so-called spin valves, which are the basis of magnetic sensors including modern hard drive read heads. The temperature at or above which an antiferromagnetic layer loses its ability to \"pin\" the magnetization direction of an adjacent ferromagnetic layer is called the blocking temperature of that layer and is usually lower than the Néel temperature.\n\nUnlike ferromagnetism, anti-ferromagnetic interactions can lead to multiple optimal states (ground states—states of minimal energy). In one dimension, the anti-ferromagnetic ground state is an alternating series of spins: up, down, up, down, etc. Yet in two dimensions, multiple ground states can occur.\n\nConsider an equilateral triangle with three spins, one on each vertex. If each spin can take on only two values (up or down), there are 2 = 8 possible states of the system, six of which are ground states. The two situations which are not ground states are when all three spins are up or are all down. In any of the other six states, there will be two favorable interactions and one unfavorable one. This illustrates frustration: the inability of the system to find a single ground state. This type of magnetic behavior has been found in minerals that have a crystal stacking structure such as a Kagome lattice or hexagonal lattice.\n\nSynthetic antiferromagnets (often abbreviated by SAF) are artificial antiferromagnets consisting of two or more thin ferromagnetic layers separated by a nonmagnetic layer. Dipole coupling of the ferromagnetic layers results in antiparallel alignment of the magnetization of the ferromagnets.\n\nAntiferromagnetism plays a crucial role in giant magnetoresistance, as had been discovered in 1988 by the Nobel prize winners Albert Fert and Peter Grünberg (awarded in 2007) using synthetic antiferromagnets.\n\nThere are also examples of disordered materials (such as iron phosphate glasses) that become antiferromagnetic below their Néel temperature. These disordered networks 'frustrate' the antiparallelism of adjacent spins; i.e. it is not possible to construct a network where each spin is surrounded by opposite neighbour spins. It can only be determined that the average correlation of neighbour spins is antiferromagnetic. This type of magnetism is sometimes called \"speromagnetism\".\n\nAn interesting phenomenon occurs in anisotropic Heisenberg antiferromagnets in a field,\nwhere spin-flop and supersolid phases may be stabilized.\nThe latter phase has been described first by Takeo Matsubara and H. Matsuda in 1956.\n\n"}
{"id": "26575396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26575396", "title": "Arrátel", "text": "Arrátel\n\nThe arrátel () was the base unit of weight in the Portuguese customary measurement system. Until the adoption of the metric system in the 19th century, the arrátel was used in Portugal, Brazil and other parts of the Portuguese Empire.\n\nThe real value of the arrátel fluctuated during the Middle Ages. Before king Pedro I, the main arrátel seems to have been an arrátel of 12.5 ounces. With Pedro I, the official arrátel increased to 14 ounces. Finally, the Portuguese arrátel was fixed at 16 ounces by decree of King Manuel I in 1499. This arrátel, which was kept as the national standard until the introduction of the metric system, was similar to the Spanish libra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "311855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311855", "title": "Autorotation (fixed-wing aircraft)", "text": "Autorotation (fixed-wing aircraft)\n\nFor fixed-wing aircraft, autorotation is the tendency of an aircraft in or near a stall to roll spontaneously to the right or left, leading to a spin (a state of continuous autorotation).\n\nWhen the angle of attack is less than the stalling angle, any increase in angle of attack causes an increase in lift coefficient that causes the wing to rise. As the wing rises the angle of attack and lift coefficient decrease which tend to restore the wing to its original angle of attack. Conversely any decrease in angle of attack causes a decrease in lift coefficient which causes the wing to descend. As the wing descends, the angle of attack and lift coefficient increase which tends to restore the wing to its original angle of attack. For this reason the angle of attack is stable when it is less than the stalling angle. The aircraft displays damping in roll.\n\nWhen the wing is stalled and the angle of attack is greater than the stalling angle, any increase in angle of attack causes a decrease in lift coefficient that causes the wing to descend. As the wing descends the angle of attack increases, which causes the lift coefficient to decrease and the angle of attack to increase. Conversely any decrease in angle of attack causes an increase in lift coefficient that causes the wing to rise. As the wing rises the angle of attack decreases and causes the lift coefficient to increase further towards the maximum lift coefficient. For this reason the angle of attack is unstable when it is greater than the stalling angle. Any disturbance of the angle of attack on one wing will cause the whole wing to roll spontaneously and continuously. \n\nWhen the angle of attack on the wing of an aircraft reaches the stalling angle the aircraft is at risk of autorotation. This will eventually develop into a spin if the pilot does not take corrective action.\n\n\nAutorotation is the basis of a large sector of airborne wind energy (AWE) technology. High altitude wind power research and development centers frequently are dependent on blade autorotation: SkyMill Energy,Joby Energy,Sky Windpower, BaseLoad Energy, Magenn Power, and Makani Power are making and testing airborne wind energy conversion systems (AWECS) that employ autorotation of blades to drive the shafts of generators to make electricity at altitude and send the electricity to earth via conductive tethers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6099285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6099285", "title": "Big Oil", "text": "Big Oil\n\nBig Oil is a name used to describe the world's six or seven largest publicly traded oil and gas companies, also known as supermajors. The supermajors are considered to be BP plc, Chevron Corporation, ExxonMobil Corporation, Royal Dutch Shell plc, Total SA and Eni SpA, with Phillips 66 Company also sometimes described in the past as forming part of the group.\n\nThe term, analogous to others, such as Big Steel, that describe industries dominated by a few giant corporations, was popularized in print from the late 1960s. Today it is often used to refer specifically to the seven supermajors. The use of the term in the popular media often excludes the national producers and OPEC oil companies who have a much greater role in setting prices than the supermajors. Two state-owned Chinese oil companies, CNPC and Sinopec, had greater revenues in 2013 than any of the supermajors except Royal Dutch Shell.\n\nIn the maritime industry, six to seven large oil companies that decide a majority of the crude oil tanker chartering business are called \"Oil Majors\".\n\nThe history of the supermajors traces back to the \"Seven Sisters\", the seven oil companies which formed the \"Consortium for Iran\" cartel and dominated the global petroleum industry from the mid-1940s to the 1970s. The Seven Sisters were:\nBefore the oil crisis of 1973 the members of the Seven Sisters controlled around 85% of the world's oil reserves.\nThe supermajors began to emerge in the late-1990s, in response to a severe fall in oil prices. Large petroleum companies began to merge, often in an effort to improve economies of scale, hedge against oil price volatility, and reduce large cash reserves through reinvestment.\nThe following major mergers and acquisitions of oil and gas companies took place between 1998 and 2002:\nThis process of consolidation created some of the largest global corporations as defined by the Forbes Global 2000 ranking, and as of 2007 all were within the top 25. Between 2004 and 2007 the profits of the six supermajors totaled US$494.8 billion.\n\nTrading under various names around the world, the supermajors are considered to be:\n\n\nConocoPhillips Company (United States) was also sometimes described as forming part of the group, before the Downstream activities spin-off. As of 2011 ExxonMobil ranked first among the supermajors measured by market capitalization, cash flow and profits.\n\nAs a group, the supermajors control around 6% of global oil and gas reserves. Conversely, 88% of global oil and gas reserves are controlled by the OPEC cartel and state-owned oil companies, primarily located in the Middle East. A trend of increasing influence of the OPEC cartel, state-owned oil companies in emerging-market economies is shown and the \"Financial Times\" has used the label \"The New Seven Sisters\" to refer to a group of what it argues are the most influential national oil and gas companies based in countries outside of the OECD, namely CNPC \"(China)\", Gazprom \"(Russia)\", National Iranian Oil Company \"(Iran)\", Petrobras \"(Brazil)\", PDVSA \"(Venezuela)\", Petronas \"(Malaysia)\", Saudi Aramco \"(Saudi Arabia)\".\n\n\nPetroleum and gas supermajors are sometimes collectively referred to as \"Big oil\", a term that emphasizes their economic power and perceived influence on politics, particularly in the United States. Big oil is often associated with the fossil fuels lobby.\n\nUsually used to refer to the industry as a whole in a pejorative or derogatory manner, \"Big oil\" has come to encompass the enormous impact crude oil exerts over first-world industrial society.\n\nIn the maritime industry, a group of six companies that control the chartering of the majority of oil tankers worldwide are together referred to as \"Oil Majors\". These are: Royal Dutch Shell, BP, Exxon Mobil, Chevron Texaco, Total Fina Elf and ConocoPhillips. Charter parties such as \"Shelltime 4\" frequently mention the phrase \"oil major\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54146", "title": "Breadfruit", "text": "Breadfruit\n\nBreadfruit (\"Artocarpus altilis\") is a species of flowering tree in the mulberry and jackfruit family (Moraceae) originating in the South Pacific and eventually spreading to the rest of Oceania. British and French navigators introduced a few Polynesian seedless varieties to Caribbean islands during the late 18th century, and today it is grown in some 90 countries throughout South and Southeast Asia, the Pacific Ocean, the Caribbean, Central America and Africa. Its name is derived from the texture of the moderately ripe fruit when cooked, similar to freshly baked bread and having a potato-like flavor.\n\nAccording to DNA fingerprinting studies, breadfruit has its origins in the region of Oceania from New Guinea through the Indo-Malayan Archipelago to western Micronesia. The trees have been widely planted in tropical regions, including lowland Central America, northern South America, and the Caribbean. In addition to the fruit serving as a staple food in many cultures, the light, sturdy timber of breadfruit has been used for outriggers, ships, and houses in the tropics.\n\nBecause breadfruit dispersal across Oceania was dependent on human seafaring, botanical research has correlated with the human colonization of Oceania, resulting in a theory that humans brought breadfruit seeds from Melanesia to settle in Polynesia and Micronesia over thousands of years.\n\nSir Joseph Banks and others saw the value of breadfruit as a highly productive food in 1769, when stationed in Tahiti as part of the expedition commanded by Captain James Cook. The late-18th-century quest for cheap, high-energy food sources for slaves in British colonies prompted colonial administrators and plantation owners to call for the plant to be brought to the Caribbean. As president of the Royal Society, Banks provided a cash bounty and gold medal for success in this endeavor, and successfully lobbied his friends in government and the Admiralty for a British Naval expedition. In 1787, William Bligh was appointed captain of , and ordered to proceed to the South Pacific to collect the plants. In 1791, Bligh commanded a second expedition with and , which collected seedless breadfruit plants in Tahiti and transported these to St. Helena, in the Atlantic, and St. Vincent and Jamaica in the West Indies. Although Bligh won the Royal Society medal for his efforts, the introduction was not entirely successful, as most slaves refused to eat the new food.\n\nBreadfruit trees grow to a height of . The large and thick leaves are deeply cut into pinnate lobes. All parts of the tree yield latex, which is useful for boat caulking.\n\nThe trees are monoecious, with male and female flowers growing on the same tree. The male flowers emerge first, followed shortly afterward by the female flowers. The latter grow into capitula, which are capable of pollination just three days later. Pollination occurs mainly by fruit bats, but cultivated varieties produce fruit without pollination. The compound, false fruit develops from the swollen perianth, and originates from 1,500-2,000 flowers visible on the skin of the fruit as hexagon-like disks.\n\nBreadfruit is one of the highest-yielding food plants, with a single tree producing up to 200 or more grapefruit-sized fruits per season, requiring limited care. In the South Pacific, the trees yield 50 to 150 fruits per year, usually round, oval or oblong weighing 0.25–6 kg. Productivity varies between wet and dry areas. Studies in Barbados indicate a reasonable potential of . The ovoid fruit has a rough surface, and each fruit is divided into many achenes, each achene surrounded by a fleshy perianth and growing on a fleshy receptacle. Most selectively bred cultivars have seedless fruit, whereas seeded varieties are grown mainly for their edible seeds. Breadfruit is usually propagated using root cuttings.\n\nBreadfruit is closely related to the breadnut, from which it might have been naturally selected. It is noticeably similar in appearance to its relative of the same genus, the jackfruit (\"Artocarpus heterophyllus\").\n\nBreadfruit has hundreds of varieties and thousands of common names varying according to its geographic distribution, and is cultivated in some 90 countries.\n\nBreadfruit is an equatorial lowland species. It grows best below elevations of , but is found at elevations of . Preferred soils are neutral to alkaline (pH of 6.1–7.4) and either sand, sandy loam, loam or sandy clay loam. Breadfruit is able to grow in coral sands and saline soils. The breadfruit is ultra-tropical, requiring a temperature range of and an annual rainfall of .\n\nBreadfruit is 71% water, 27% carbohydrates, 1% protein and negligible in fat (see table). In a 100 gram amount, raw breadfruit is a rich source (35% of the Daily Value, DV) of vitamin C, and a moderate source (10% DV each) of thiamin and potassium, with no other nutrients in significant content.\n\nBreadfruit is a staple food in many tropical regions. Most breadfruit varieties produce fruits throughout the year. Both ripe and unripe fruits have culinary uses, but unripe breadfruit is cooked before consumption. Before being eaten, the fruits are roasted, baked, fried or boiled. When cooked, the taste of moderately ripe breadfruit is described as potato-like, or similar to freshly baked bread. \n\nBecause breadfruit trees usually produce large crops at certain times of the year, preservation of the harvested fruit is an issue. One traditional preservation technique is to bury peeled and washed fruits in a leaf-lined pit where they ferment over several weeks and produce a sour, sticky paste. So stored, the product may last a year or more, and some pits are reported to have produced edible contents more than 20 years later. Fermented breadfruit mash goes by many names such as \"mahr\", \"ma\", \"masi\", \"furo\", and \"bwiru\", among others.\n\nBreadfruit can be eaten once cooked, or can be further processed into a variety of other foods. A common product is a mixture of cooked or fermented breadfruit mash mixed with coconut milk and baked in banana leaves. Whole fruits can be cooked in an open fire, then cored and filled with other foods, such as coconut milk, sugar and butter, cooked meats, or other fruits. The filled fruit can be cooked further so the flavor of the filling permeates the flesh of the breadfruit.\n\nBreadfruit is found in Indonesia and Malaysia, where it is called \"sukun\". In Indonesia, fried breadfruit is sold by street food vendors, and is known as gorengan. In the South Indian state of Kerala and coastal Karnataka, especially near Mangalore, where it is widely grown and cooked, it is known as \"kada chakka\".\n\nIn Sri Lanka, it is cooked as a curry using coconut milk and spices (which becomes a side dish) or boiled. Boiled breadfruit is a famous main meal. It is often consumed with scraped coconut or \"coconut sambol\", made of scraped coconut, red chilli powder and salt mixed with a dash of lime juice. A traditional sweet snack made of finely sliced, sun-dried breadfruit chips deep-fried in coconut oil and dipped in heated treacle or sugar syrup is known as \"rata del petti\". In India, fritters of breadfruit, called \"jeev kadge phodi\" in Konkani or \"kadachakka varuthath\" in Malayalam are a local delicacy in coastal Karnataka and Kerala. In Seychelles, it was traditionally eaten as a substitute for rice, as an accompaniment to the mains. It would either be consumed boiled (\"friyapen bwi\") or grilled (\"friyapen griye\"), where it would be put whole in the wood fire used for cooking the main meal and then taken out when ready. It is also eaten as a dessert, called \"ladob friyapen\", where it is boiled in coconut milk, sugar, vanilla, cinnamon and a pinch of salt.\n\nIn the Hawaiian staple food called \"poi\", the traditional ingredient of mashed taro root can be replaced by, or augmented with, mashed breadfruit. The resulting \"breadfruit poi\" is called \"poi ulu\".\n\nIn Belize, the Mayan people call it \"masapan\". In Puerto Rico, breadfruit is called \"panapen\" or \"pana\", for short. In some inland regions it is also called \"mapén\". \"Pana\" is often served boiled with a mixture of sauteed \"bacalao\" (salted cod fish), olive oil and onions. It is also served as \"tostones\" or \"mofongo\". A popular dessert is also made with sweet ripe breadfruit: \"flan de pana\" (breadfruit custard). In the Dominican Republic, it is known by the name \"buen pan\" or \"good bread\". In Barbados, breadfruit is boiled with salted meat and mashed with butter to make breadfruit coucou. It is usually eaten with saucy meat dishes. In Jamaica, breadfruit is boiled in soups or roasted on stove top, in the oven or on wood coal. It is usually eaten with the national dish ackee and salt fish. The ripe fruit is used in salads or fried as a side dish.\n\nBreadfruit was widely used in a variety of ways among Pacific Islanders. Its lightweight wood (specific gravity of 0.27) is resistant to termites and shipworms, so it is used as timber for structures and outrigger canoes. Its wood pulp can also be used to make paper, called breadfruit \"tapa\". Native Hawaiians used its sticky latex to trap birds, whose feathers were made into cloaks. The wood of the breadfruit tree was one of the most valuable timbers in the construction of traditional houses in Samoan architecture.\n\nBreadfruit contains phytochemicals having potential as an insect repellent. The parts of the fruits that are discarded can be used to feed livestock. The leaves of breadfruit trees can also be browsed by cattle.\n\nOn Puluwat in the Caroline Islands, in the context of sacred \"yitang\" lore, breadfruit (\"poi\") is a figure of speech for knowledge. This lore is organized into five categories: war, magic, meetings, navigation, and \"breadfruit\".\n\nAccording to an etiological Hawaiian myth, the breadfruit originated from the sacrifice of the war god Kū. After deciding to live secretly among mortals as a farmer, Kū married and had children. He and his family lived happily until a famine seized their island. When he could no longer bear to watch his children suffer, Kū told his wife that he could deliver them from starvation, but to do so he would have to leave them. Reluctantly she agreed, and at her word, Kū descended into the ground right where he had stood until only the top of his head was visible. His family waited around the spot he had last been, day and night, watering it with their tears until suddenly, a small green shoot appeared where Kū had stood. Quickly, the shoot grew into a tall and leafy tree that was laden with heavy breadfruits that Kū's family and neighbors gratefully ate, joyfully saved from starvation.\n\nThough they are widely distributed throughout the Pacific, many breadfruit hybrids and cultivars are seedless or otherwise biologically incapable of naturally dispersing long distances. Therefore, it is clear that humans aided distribution of the plant in the Pacific, specifically prehistoric groups who colonized the Pacific Islands. To investigate the patterns of human migration throughout the Pacific, scientists have used molecular dating of breadfruit hybrids and cultivars in concert with anthropological data. Results support the west-to-east migration hypothesis, in which the Lapita people are thought to have traveled from Melanesia to numerous Polynesian islands.\n\nThe world's largest collection of breadfruit varieties was established by botanist Diane Ragone, from over 20 years' travel to 50 Pacific islands, on a plot outside of Hana, on the isolated east coast of Maui (Hawaii).\n\n"}
{"id": "978913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=978913", "title": "Brittleness", "text": "Brittleness\n\nA material is brittle if, when subjected to stress, it breaks without significant plastic deformation. Brittle materials absorb relatively little energy prior to fracture, even those of high strength. Breaking is often accompanied by a snapping sound. Brittle materials include most ceramics and glasses (which do not deform plastically) and some polymers, such as PMMA and polystyrene. Many steels become brittle at low temperatures (see ductile-brittle transition temperature), depending on their composition and processing.\n\nWhen used in materials science, it is generally applied to materials that fail when there is little or no plastic deformation before failure. One proof is to match the broken halves, which should fit exactly since no plastic deformation has occurred.\n\nWhen a material has reached the limit of its strength, it usually has the option of either deformation or fracture. A naturally malleable metal can be made stronger by impeding the mechanisms of plastic deformation (reducing grain size, precipitation hardening, work hardening, etc.), but if this is taken to an extreme, fracture becomes the more likely outcome, and the material can become brittle. Improving material toughness is therefore a balancing act.\n\nThis principle generalizes to other classes of material. Naturally brittle materials, such as glass, are not difficult to toughen effectively. Most such techniques involve one of two mechanisms: to deflect or absorb the tip of a propagating crack, or to create carefully controlled residual stresses so that cracks from certain predictable sources will be forced closed. The first principle is used in laminated glass where two sheets of glass are separated by an interlayer of polyvinyl butyral, which as a viscoelastic polymer absorbs the growing crack. The second method is used in toughened glass and pre-stressed concrete. A demonstration of glass toughening is provided by Prince Rupert's Drop. Brittle polymers can be toughened by using metal particles to initiate crazes when a sample is stressed, a good example being high-impact polystyrene or HIPS. The least brittle structural ceramics are silicon carbide (mainly by virtue of its high strength) and transformation-toughened zirconia.\n\nA different philosophy is used in composite materials, where brittle glass fibres, for example, are embedded in a ductile matrix such as polyester resin. When strained, cracks are formed at the glass–matrix interface, but so many are formed that much energy is absorbed and the material is thereby toughened. The same principle is used in creating metal matrix composites.\n\nGenerally, the \"brittle strength\" of a material can be increased by pressure. This happens as an example in the brittle-ductile transition zone at an approximate depth of in the Earth's crust, at which rock becomes less likely to fracture, and more likely to deform ductilely (see rheid).\n\nSupersonic fracture is crack motion faster than the speed of sound in a brittle material. This phenomenon was first discovered by scientists from the Max Planck Institute for Metals Research in Stuttgart (Markus J. Buehler and Huajian Gao) and IBM Almaden Research Center in San Jose, California (Farid F. Abraham).\n\n"}
{"id": "44322270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44322270", "title": "CORENA", "text": "CORENA\n\nCORENA is an abbreviation of \"Citizens [sic] Own Renewable Energy Network Australia Incorporated\", an Australian nonprofit organisation based in Modbury, South Australia that relies on voluntary contributions from the public to fund practical renewable energy projects.\n\nThe concept was inspired by a conversation between founder Margaret Hender and a relative, wherein they discussed the possibility of Australia becoming powered entirely by renewable energy. A study published by Beyond Zero Emissions established that the goal was achievable if each household contributed $8 per week over 10 years. Thus CORENA was established to act as a focal point for the community desire to participate in such a scheme.\n\nCORENA was incorporated on 22 April 2013.\n\nThe lack of an apostrophe in the official title of the organisation stems from the requirement that the name of a financial institution account needs to exactly match the name of an organisation as it appears in its incorporation documents. Furthermore, the account name input fields of financial institutions don't accept the apostrophe as a valid character, causing deposits to bounce if the entered name does not match the account name. Hence for practical reasons the apostrophe remains omitted in spite of the grammatical error.\n\nThe first Big Win project aims to collect AU$5 million initially, with the aim of using this money to enable the first stage of building a 50 MegaWatt solar thermal and storage plant, including planning, the purchase of land and auxiliary power.\n\nCORENA also co-ordinates a series of Quick Win projects that provide interest-free loans, consisting of money collected through donations, to nonprofit community groups to install solar power or solar hot water systems and/or for energy efficiency measures.\n"}
{"id": "2398764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2398764", "title": "Conservancy Association", "text": "Conservancy Association\n\nThe Conservancy Association () is a Hong Kong non-governmental organisation founded in 1968.\n\nThe organisation focuses on the protection of the environment and the conservation of natural and cultural heritage. It also seeks to enhance the quality of life of both current and future generations, and to ensure that Hong Kong shoulders her regional and global environmental responsibilities. The organisation advocates appropriate policies, monitors government action, promotes environmental education and takes a lead in community participation.\n\nIn 1967, John H. Pain (1930 - 2018) of Hong Kong Tourist Association, Prof. Brian Loft (1929 - 2015) of the University of Hong Kong, Jeremy Brown of Jardine Matheson and a Scottish lady Agnes Black formed a rambling group called \"Bauhina's Circle\". Their regard for the Hong Kong countryside came at the right time as the Hong Kong government made plans in 1968 for a \"Provisional Council for the Use and Conservation of the Countryside\", an idea from a government-commissioned report \"Conservation of the Hong Kong Countryside\" by Lee M Talbot. The idea of forming an association came during one of these walks when they saw the ass destruction of the village land. In October 1968, they gathered at Helena May Institute and declared themselves \"the Conservancy Association\" - thus was born the first ever green group of Hong Kong.\n\nSoon they recruited Robert N. Rayne of the Chinese University of Hong Kong, together with Prof. S. Y. Hu of the Chinese University of Hong Kong, Michael A. Webster, a keen bird-watcher, Sir Lindsay Ride, former Vice Chancellor of Hong Kong University and the others. Father H. Naylor of Wah Yan College, was invited by Robert N. Rayne. They became the founders of the association. In late 1969, it was formally registered as a society. The first Annual General Meeting was held in 1970 and Robert N. Rayne was elected as Chairman with Michael Webster as Secretary. In 1971, Dr. Ding Lik-kiu was invited by John H. Pain to join the association.\n\nA membership drive and fund raising campaign was then launched. On 11 May 1972, the Conservancy Association published a full-page advertisement on South China Morning Post by listing their \"Founding Members\".\n\nAt a 1972 workshop, members of the association reached a consensus that Hong Kong's countryside was threatened and would \"cease to exist in an acceptable form\" unless concrete action was taken to protect it. The association also considered pollution in urban areas an imminent threat to public health. It pressed the government to take action to turn Hong Kong from \"one of the dirtiest, and potentially unhealthiest, cities in Asia to one of the cleanest, with clean air, clean water, clean streets, and community-conscious people.\"\n\nSince then, the association positioned itself as a pressure group on environmental issues and launched a series of campaigns. In the early 1970s the association opposed the construction of a petrochemical complex on Lamma Island, proposed by Shell. This proposal was withdrawn in January 1975. Later the same decade, the association opposed the construction of the Lamma Power Station, which was eventually built.\n\nHaving enlightened by the discussion of Earth Summit in Stockholm, Father Naylor launched various environmental educational activities to teach local students about environmental protection, including the establishment of \"Youth Environmental Action Group\" and \"School Conservancy Clubs Liaison Board\".\n\nFrom 1977 to 1980, the association worked with \"Hong Kong Heritage Society\" and launched a series of heritage conservation campaigns, including the conservation of Tsim Sha Tsui Railway Terminal, Victoria Block, Hong Kong Club Building and Supreme Court...etc.\n\nVarious campaigns were launched during the 1980s. The Association was a member of the Joint Organisation of the Concerned for Nuclear Energy (JOCNE) and opposed the establishment of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Plant. Being championed by its member Simon Chau Siu-cheung, the association also launched the \"No MSG Campaign\" and promote prudent use of plastic bags.\n\nIn 1988, the association established the Hong Kong Environmental Centre within its office as the first environmental resource centre open to the public.\n\nSince 1990s, the association worked with other green groups in Hong Kong to campaign against the development of countryside, such as Sha Lo Tung, Nam Sang Wai...etc. The association also advocated the Environmental Impact Assessment Bill and the Nature Conservation Policy.\n\nThe \"No Fat Choy for good fortune (不吃髮菜齊發財)\" movement was launched against the environmental vandalism of the destroy of grassland in mainland China in 2001.\n\nThe association opposed the alignment of Lok Ma Chau Spur Line in order to protect Long Valley.\n\nIn 2004 the association helped organise a campaign against the plan to tear down Hunghom Peninsula, a brand new housing estate built as Home Ownership Scheme public housing but sold instead to Sun Hung Kai Properties and New World Development following completion. Following a massive backlash and facing a public relations disaster, the developers rescinded the plans and decided to renovate the estate instead.\n\nIn 2006, the Conservancy Association's Hong Kong Environment Centre was transformed into the Conservancy Association Centre for Heritage (CACHe).\n\nCA has actively initiated a variety of tree conservation and education works over the past years. Different tree activities included “Arbor Day”, tree appreciation tours, tree risk assessment training workshops, tree-scapes and wall trees photo competitions etc. were organized to raise the public awareness on tree appreciation as well as the importance of urban forestry.\n\nApart from urban trees, CA also focus on woodlands in countryside. CA has participated in several tree planting schemes, organized tree planting activities in different hillsides, not only to provide chances for public to participate into tree works, but also to improve ecological values of local woodland habitats.\n\nThe Conservancy Association considers that natural and cultural heritage is an invaluable public asset, belonging to the society and posterity. It is part of the \"social capitals\" of Hong Kong. Management of this asset in a sustainable manner will not only enhance our quality of life, but also contribute substantially to Hong Kong's competitiveness.\n\nCA spares no efforts in the promotion of waste reduction and recycling. We work closely with government departments, property management companies, housing estates, schools and NGOs in organizing educational and recycling programmes for different audiences, aiming to encourage the general public to achieve waste reduction in daily lives.\n\nCommunity education work is one of the tasks that CA pays attention to. Other than Talks and Guided Tours in traditional formats, education activities provided by CA tend to be diversified , such as green mass games, drama-in-education activities, children's stories, carnivals, Liberal Studies discussion and facilities visits etc., covering a variety of audience from kindergarten kids, primary, secondary & tertiary students and families. Through different experiences, participants could learn to know the natural environment and be more willing to protect environment.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3147788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3147788", "title": "Copper indium gallium selenide", "text": "Copper indium gallium selenide\n\nCopper indium gallium (di)selenide (CIGS) is a I-III-VI semiconductor material composed of copper, indium, gallium, and selenium. The material is a solid solution of copper indium selenide (often abbreviated \"CIS\") and copper gallium selenide. It has a chemical formula of CuInGaSe where the value of x can vary from 0 (pure copper indium selenide) to 1 (pure copper gallium selenide). CIGS is a tetrahedrally bonded semiconductor, with the chalcopyrite crystal structure, and a bandgap varying continuously with \"x\" from about 1.0 eV (for copper indium selenide) to about 1.7 eV (for copper gallium selenide).\n\nCIGS is a tetrahedrally bonded semiconductor, with the chalcopyrite crystal structure. Upon heating it transforms to the zincblende form and the transition temperature decreases from 1045 °C for x=0 to 805 °C for x=1.\n\nIt is best known as the material for CIGS solar cells a thin-film technology used in the photovoltaic industry. In this role, CIGS has the advantage of being able to be deposited on flexible substrate materials, producing highly flexible, lightweight solar panels. Improvements in efficiency have made CIGS an established technology among alternative cell materials.\n\n"}
{"id": "22010633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22010633", "title": "Deathnium", "text": "Deathnium\n\nDeathnium is a name given by early electronic engineers to a trap in semiconductors that reduced the lifetime of both electron and hole charge carriers. It is considered the fifth of the imperfections that must be considered in semiconductor crystals to understand semiconductor effects along with holes, electrons, donors, and acceptors. Deathnium hastens the establishment of equilibrium between holes and electrons. This condition was not anticipated but it emerged during the invention of bipolar junction transistor after the influence of deep-trap impurities introduced by contamination of the manufacturing machinery, which reduced the lifetime of semiconductor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21424701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21424701", "title": "Defaunation", "text": "Defaunation\n\nDefaunation is the global, local or functional extinction of animal populations or species from ecological communities. The growth of the human population, combined with advances in harvesting technologies, has led to more intense and efficient exploitation of the environment. This has resulted in the depletion of large vertebrates from ecological communities, creating what has been termed \"empty forest\". Defaunation differs from extinction; it includes both the disappearance of species and declines in abundance. Defaunation effects were first implied at the Symposium of Plant-Animal Interactions at the University of Campinas, Brazil in 1988 in the context of neotropical forests. Since then, the term has gained broader usage in conservation biology as a global phenomenon.\n\nIt is estimated that more than 50 percent of all wildlife has been lost in the last 40 years. in 2020 it is estimated that 68% of the world's wildlife will be lost. In South America, there is believed to be a 70 percent loss.\n\nIn November 2017, over 15,000 scientists around the world issued a second warning to humanity, which, among other things, urged for the development and implementation of policies to halt \"defaunation, the poaching crisis, and the exploitation and trade of threatened species.\"\n\nThe intensive hunting and harvesting of animals threatens endangered vertebrate species across the world. Game vertebrates are considered valuable products of tropical forests and savannas. In Brazilian Amazonia, 23 million vertebrates are killed every year; large-bodied primates, tapirs, white-lipped peccaries, giant armadillos, and tortoises are some of the animals most sensitive to harvest. Overhunting can reduce the local population of such species by more than half, as well as reducing population density. Populations located nearer to villages are significantly more at risk of depletion. Abundance of local game species declines as density of local settlements, such as villages, increases.\n\nHunting and poaching may lead to local population declines or extinction in some species. Most affected species undergo pressure from multiple sources but the scientific community is still unsure of the complexity of these interactions and their feedback loops.\n\nOne case study in Panama found an inverse relationship between poaching intensity and abundance for 9 of 11 mammal species studied. In addition, preferred game species experienced greater declines and had higher spatial variation in abundance.\n\nHuman population growth results in changes in land-use, which can cause natural habitats to become fragmented, altered, or destroyed. Large mammals are often more vulnerable to extinction than smaller animals because they require larger home ranges and thus are more prone to suffer the effects of deforestation. Large species such as elephants, rhinoceroses, large primates, tapirs and peccaries are the first animals to disappear in fragmented rainforests.\n\nA case study from Amazonian Ecuador analyzed two oil-road management approaches and their effects on the surrounding wildlife communities. The free-access road had forests that were cleared and fragmented and the other had enforced access control. Fewer species were found along the first road with density estimates being almost 80% lower than at the second site that which had minimal disturbance. This finding suggests that disturbances affected the local animals' willingness and ability to travel between patches.\n\nFragmentation lowers populations while increasing extinction risk when the remaining habitat size is small. When there is more unfragmented land, there is more habitat for more diverse species. A larger land patch also means it can accommodate more species with larger home ranges. However, when patch size decreases, there is an increase in the number of isolated fragments which can remain unoccupied by local fauna. If this persists, species may become extinct in the area.\n\nA study on deforestation in the Amazon looked at two patterns of habitat fragmentation: \"fish-bone\" in smaller properties and another unnamed large property pattern. The large property pattern contained fewer fragments than the smaller fish-bone pattern. The results suggested that higher levels of fragmentation within the fish-bone pattern led to the loss of species and decreased diversity of large vertebrates. Human impacts, such as the fragmentation of forests, may cause large areas to lose the ability to maintain biodiversity and ecosystem function due to loss of key ecological processes. This can consequently cause changes within environments and skew evolutionary processes.\n\nHuman influences, such as colonization and agriculture, have caused species to become distributed outside of their native ranges. Fragmentation also has cascading effects on native species, beyond reducing habitat and resource availability; it leaves areas vulnerable to non-native invasions. Invasive species can out-compete or directly prey upon native species, as well as alter the habitat so that native species can no longer survive.\n\nIn extinct animal species for which the cause of extinction is known, over 50% were affected by invasive species. For 20% of extinct animal species, invasive species are the only cited cause of extinction. Invasive species are the second-most important cause of extinction for mammals.\n\nTropical regions are the most heavily impacted by defaunation. These regions, which include the Brazilian Amazon, the Congo Basin of Central Africa, and Indonesia, experience the greatest rates of overexploitation and habitat degradation. However, specific causes are varied, and areas with one endangered group (such as birds) do not necessarily also have other endangered groups (such as mammals, insects, or amphibians).\n\nDeforestation of the Brazilian Amazon leads to habitat fragmentation and overexploitation. Hunting pressure in the Amazon rainforest has increased as traditional hunting techniques have been replaced by modern weapons such as shotguns. Access roads built for mining and logging operations fragment the forest landscape and allow hunters to move into forested areas which previously were untouched. The bushmeat trade in Central Africa incentivizes the overexploitation of local fauna. Indonesia has the most endangered animal species of any area in the world. International trade in wild animals, as well as extensive logging, mining and agriculture operations, drive the decline and extinction of numerous species.\n\nInbreeding and genetic diversity loss often occur with endangered species populations because they have small and/or declining populations. Loss of genetic diversity lowers the ability of a population to deal with change in their environment and can make individuals within the community homogeneous. If this occurs, these animals are more susceptible to disease and other occurrences that may target a specific genome. Without genetic diversity, one disease could eradicate an entire species. Inbreeding lowers reproduction and survival rates. It is suggested that these genetic factors contribute to the extinction risk in threatened/endangered species.\n\nThe consequences of defaunation can be expected to affect the plant community. There are three non-mutually exclusive conclusions as to the consequences on tropical forest plant communities:\n\n\nOne recent study analyzed seedling density and composition from two areas, Los Tuxtlas and Montes Azules. Los Tuxtlas, which is affected more by human activity, showed higher seedling density and a smaller average number of different species than in the other area. Results suggest that an absence of vertebrate dispersers can change the structure and diversity of forests. As a result, a plant community that relies on animals for dispersal could potentially have an altered biodiversity, species dominance, survival, demography, and spatial and genetic structure.\n\nPoaching is likely to alter plant composition because the interactions between game and plant species varies in strength. Some game species interact strongly, weakly, or not at all with species. A change in plant species composition is likely to be a result because the net effect removal of game species varies among the plant species they interact with.\n\nAs large-bodied vertebrates are increasingly lost from seed-dispersal networks, small-bodied seed dispersers (i.e. bats, birds, dung beetles) and seed predators (i.e. rodents) are affected. Defaunation leads to reduced species diversity. This is due to relaxed competition; small-bodied species normally compete with large-bodied vertebrates for food and other resources. As an area becomes defaunated, dominant small-bodied species take over, crowding out other similar species and leading to an overall reduced species diversity. The loss of species diversity is reflective of a larger loss of biodiversity, which has consequences for the maintenance of ecosystem services.\n\nThe quality of the physical habitat may also suffer. Bird and bat species (many of who are small bodied seed dispersers) rely on mineral licks as a source of sodium, which is not available elsewhere in their diets. In defaunated areas in the Western Amazon, mineral licks are more thickly covered by vegetation and have lower water availability. Bats were significantly less likely to visit these degraded mineral licks. The degradation of such licks will thus negatively affect the health and reproduction of bat populations.\n\nDefaunation has negative consequences for seed dispersal networks as well. In the western Amazon, birds and bats have separate diets and thus form separate guilds within the network. It is hypothesized that large-bodied vertebrates, being generalists, connect separate guilds, creating a stable, resilient network. Defaunation results in a highly modular network in which specialized frugivores instead act as the connector hubs.\n\nChanges in predation dynamics, seed predation, seed dispersal, carrion removal, dung removal, vegetation trampling, and other ecosystem processes as a result of defaunation can affect ecosystem supporting and regulatory services, such as nutrient cycling and decomposition, crop pollination, pest control, and water quality.\n\nEfforts against defaunation include wildlife overpasses and riparian corridors. Both of these can be otherwise known as wildlife crossing mechanisms. Wildlife overpasses are specifically used for the purpose of protecting many animal species from the roads. Many countries use them and they have been found to be very effective in protecting species and allowing forests to be connected. These overpasses look like bridges of forest that cross over many roads, like a walk bridge for humans, allowing animals to migrate from one side of the forest to the other safely since the road cut off the original connectivity. It was concluded in a study done by Pell and Jones, looking at bird use of these corridors in Australia, that many birds did, in fact, use these corridors to travel from one side of forest to the other and although they did not spend much time in the corridor specifically, they did commonly use them. Riparian corridors are very similar to overpasses they are just on flat land and not on bridges, however, they also work as connective \"bridges\" between fragmented pieces of forest. One study done connected the corridors with bird habitat and use for seed dispersal. The conclusions of this study showed that some species of birds are highly dependent on these corridors as connections between forest, as flying across the open land is not ideal for many species. Overall both of these studies agree that some sort of connectivity needs to be established between fragments in order to keep the forest ecosystem in the best health possible and that they have in fact been very effective.\n\nDefaunation in the ocean has occurred later and less intensely than on land. A relatively small number of marine species have been driven to extinction. However, many species have undergone local, ecological, and commercial extinction. Most large marine animal species still exist, such that the size distribution of global species assemblages has changed little since the Pleistocene, but individuals of each species are smaller on average, and overfishing has caused reductions in genetic diversity. Most extinctions and population declines to date have been driven by human overexploitation.\n\nMarine defaunation has a wide array of effects on ecosystem structure and function. The loss of animals can have both top-down (cascading) and bottom-up effects, as well as consequences for biogeochemical cycling, ecosystem connectivity, and ecosystem stability.\n\nTwo of the most important ecosystem services threatened by marine defaunation are the provision of food and coastal storm protection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "174236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174236", "title": "Diagenesis", "text": "Diagenesis\n\nDiagenesis () is the change of sediments or existing sedimentary rocks into a different sedimentary rock during and after rock formation (lithification), at temperatures and pressures less than that required for the formation of metamorphic rocks. It does not include changes from weathering. It is any chemical, physical, or biological change undergone by a sediment after its initial deposition, after its lithification. This process excludes surface alteration (weathering) and metamorphism. These changes happen at relatively low temperatures and pressures and result in changes to the rock's original mineralogy and texture. There is no sharp boundary between diagenesis and metamorphism, but the latter occurs at higher temperatures and pressures. Hydrothermal solutions, meteoric groundwater, porosity, permeability, solubility, and time are all influential factors.\n\nAfter deposition, sediments are compacted as they are buried beneath successive layers of sediment and cemented by minerals that precipitate from solution. Grains of sediment, rock fragments and fossils can be replaced by other minerals during diagenesis. Porosity usually decreases during diagenesis, except in rare cases such as dissolution of minerals and dolomitization.\n\nThe study of diagenesis in rocks is used to understand the geologic history they have undergone and the nature and type of fluids that have circulated through them. From a commercial standpoint, such studies aid in assessing the likelihood of finding various economically viable mineral and hydrocarbon deposits.\n\nThe process of diagenesis is also important in the decomposition of bone tissue.\n\nThe term diagenesis, literally meaning \"across generation\", is extensively used in geology. However, this term has filtered into the field of anthropology, archaeology and paleontology to describe the changes and alterations that take place on skeletal (biological) material. Specifically, diagenesis \"is the cumulative physical, chemical and biological environment; these processes will modify an organic object's original chemical and/or structural properties and will govern its ultimate fate, in terms of preservation or destruction\". In order to assess the potential impact of diagenesis on archaeological or fossil bones, many factors need to be assessed, beginning with elemental and mineralogical composition of bone and enveloping soil, as well as the local burial environment (geology, climatology, groundwater).\n\nThe composite nature of bone, comprising one-third organic (mainly protein collagen) and two thirds mineral (calcium phosphate mostly in the form of hydroxyapatite) renders its diagenesis more complex. Alteration occurs at all scales from molecular loss and substitution, through crystallite reorganization, porosity and microstructural changes, and in many cases, to disintegration of the complete unit. Three general pathways of the diagenesis of bone have been identified:\n\n\nThey are as follows:\n\nWhen animal or plant matter is buried during sedimentation, the constituent organic molecules (lipids, proteins, carbohydrates and lignin-humic compounds) break down due to the increase in temperature and pressure. This transformation occurs in the first few hundred meters of burial and results in the creation of two primary products: kerogens and bitumens.\n\nIt is generally accepted that hydrocarbons are formed by the thermal alteration of these kerogens (the \"biogenic\" theory). In this way, given certain conditions (which are largely temperature-dependent) kerogens will break down to form hydrocarbons through a chemical process known as cracking, or catagenesis.\n\nA kinetic model based on experimental data can capture most of the essential transformation in diagenesis, and a mathematical model in a compacting porous medium to model the dissolution-precipitation mechanism. These models have been intensively studied and applied in real geological applications.\n\nDiagenesis has been divided, based on hydrocarbon and coal genesis into: \"eodiagenesis\" (early), \"mesodiagenesis\" (middle) and \"telodiagenesis\" (late). During the early or eodiagenesis stage shales lose pore water, little to no hydrocarbons are formed and coal varies between lignite and sub-bituminous. During mesodiagenesis, dehydration of clay minerals occurs, the main development of oil genesis occurs and high to low volatile bituminous coals are formed. During telodiagenesis, organic matter undergoes cracking and dry gas is produced; semi-anthracite coals develop.\n\nEarly diagenesis in newly formed aquatic sediments is mediated by microorganisms using different electron acceptors as part of their metabolism. Organic matter is mineralized, liberating gaseous carbon dioxide (CO) in the porewater, which, depending on the conditions, can diffuse into the water column. The various processes of mineralization in this phase are nitrification and denitrification, manganese oxide reduction, iron hydroxide reduction, sulfate reduction, and fermentation.\n\nDiagenesis alters the proportions of organic collagen and inorganic components (hydroxyapatite, calcium, magnesium) of bone exposed to environmental conditions, especially moisture. This is accomplished by the exchange of natural bone constituents, deposition in voids or defects, adsorption onto the bone surface and leaching from the bone.\n\n"}
{"id": "938244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=938244", "title": "Downwash", "text": "Downwash\n\nIn aeronautics, downwash is the change in direction of air deflected by the aerodynamic action of an airfoil, wing or helicopter rotor blade in motion, as part of the process of producing lift.\n\nLift on airfoil is an example of application of Newton's third law of motion - the force required to create the downwash is equal in magnitude and opposite in direction to the lift force on the airfoil. Lift on an airfoil is also an example of the Kutta-Joukowski theorem – the Kutta condition explains the existence of downwash at the trailing edge of the wing.\n\n"}
{"id": "13759500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13759500", "title": "Eneco", "text": "Eneco\n\nEneco, the trading name of Eneco Holding N.V., is one of the largest producers and suppliers of natural gas, electricity and heat in the Netherlands, serving more than 2 million business and residential customers. Eneco headquarters are located in Rotterdam. It also carries out energy trading and is involved in sustainable energy projects.\n\nEneco is the largest power company in Zuid Holland.\n\nThe company is divided into five business units:\n\n\nOn the 8 January 2010 the United Kingdom Crown Estate awarded Eneco New Energy the Zone 7 offshore wind farm licence for UK waters. This gave them exclusive rights to create a 900 MW offshore wind farm (Navitus Bay) off the west coast of the Isle of Wight.\n"}
{"id": "47943112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47943112", "title": "Energix Renewable Energies", "text": "Energix Renewable Energies\n\nEnergix Renewable Energies Ltd. is a power producer specializing in renewable energy, currently active mainly in the field of Photovoltaics and Wind power. Energiesis a public company traded in the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange since May 2011 ().\n\nEnergix is owned (72%) by Alony Hetz Properties and Investments Ltd. (TASE: \"ALHE”), one of the largest real-estate investment group in Israel.\n\nEnergix was founded in 2009 as a fully owned subsidiary of Amot Investments Ltd. (TASE: \"AMOT”), the Israeli real estate subsidiary of Alony Hetz, under the name of Amot Energy Ltd. Energix made its first steps by installing \"small scaled\" (50 KWp) roof-top PV systems on industrial parks buildings owned by Amot industrial parks.\n\nIn 2010 Energix began developing \"medium scaled\" projects both on assets owned by Amot as well as through assets owned by its partnership it established with the Granot group.\n\nIn December 2014, after an 11 month construction period, Energix has connected the Neot Hovav 37.5 MWp solar park. It was the first and largest Grid Connected PV Solar Park in Israel.\n\nIn December 2015, Energix completed the construction of a wind farm with a capacity of 50MW in Poland. It is the first stage out of a total capacity of 192MW.\n\nEnergix is the winner of \"The most Innovative Renewable Energy Company Award\" for 2015 of The New Economy Magazine. It is the first Israeli company to win an award in the magazine.\n\nEnergix' involvement in a project involves financing, gathering regulatory approval, subcontractor management and upon completion of the project, ownership, maintenance and operations of the site.\n\nEnergix is located in the Moshe Aviv Tower, Ramat Gan, and currently employs around 25 employees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10975", "title": "Fatty acid", "text": "Fatty acid\n\nIn chemistry, particularly in biochemistry, a fatty acid is a carboxylic acid with a long aliphatic chain, which is either saturated or unsaturated. Most naturally occurring fatty acids have an unbranched chain of an even number of carbon atoms, from 4 to 28. Fatty acids are usually not found per se in organisms, but instead as three main classes of esters: triglycerides, phospholipids, and cholesterol esters. In any of these forms, fatty acids are both important dietary sources of fuel for animals and they are important structural components for cells.\n\nThe concept of fatty acid (\"acide gras\") was introduced by Michel Eugène Chevreul, though he used initially some variant terms, \"graisse acide\" and \"acide huileux\" (\"acid fat\" and \"oily acid\").\n\nFatty acids differ by length, often categorized as short to very long. \n\nSaturated fatty acids have no C=C double bonds. They have the same formula CH(CH)COOH, with variations in \"n\". An important saturated fatty acid is stearic acid (n = 16), which when neutralized with lye is the most common form of soap.\n\nUnsaturated fatty acids have one or more C=C double bonds. The C=C double bonds can give either \"cis\" or \"trans\" isomers. \n\n\nIn most naturally occurring unsaturated fatty acids, each double bond has three \"n\" carbon atoms after it, for some n, and all are cis bonds. Most fatty acids in the \"trans\" configuration (trans fats) are not found in nature and are the result of human processing (e.g., hydrogenation).\n\nThe differences in geometry between the various types of unsaturated fatty acids, as well as between saturated and unsaturated fatty acids, play an important role in biological processes, and in the construction of biological structures (such as cell membranes).\n\nThe position of the carbon atoms in a fatty acid can be indicated from the COOH- (or carboxy) end, or from the –CH (or methyl) end. If indicated from the -COOH end, then the C-1, C-2, C-3, ….(etc.) notation is used (blue numerals in the diagram on the right, where C-1 is the –COOH carbon). If the position is counted from the other, –CH, end then the position is indicated by the ω-\"n\" notation (numerals in red, where ω-1 refers to the methyl carbon).\n\nThe positions of the double bonds in a fatty acid chain can, therefore, be indicated in two ways, using the C-\"n\" or the ω-\"n\" notation. Thus, in an 18 carbon fatty acid, a double bond between C-12 (or ω-7) and C-13 (or ω-6) is reported either as Δ if counted from the –COOH end (indicating only the “beginning” of the double bond), or as ω-6 (or omega-6) if counting from the –CH end. The “Δ” is the Greek letter “delta”, which translates into “D” ( for Double bond) in the Roman alphabet. Omega (ω) is the last letter in the Greek alphabet, and is therefore used to indicate the “last” carbon atom in the fatty acid chain. Since the ω-\"n\" notation is used almost exclusively to indicate the positions of the double bonds close to the –CH end in essential fatty acids, there is no necessity for an equivalent “Δ”-like notation - the use of the “ω-\"n\"” notation always refers to the position of a double bond.\n\nFatty acids with an odd number of carbon atoms are called odd-chain fatty acids, whereas the rest are even-chain fatty acids. The difference is relevant to gluconeogenesis.\n\nThe following table describes the most common systems of naming fatty acids.\n\nWhen circulating in the plasma (plasma fatty acids) are not in their ester, fatty acids are known as non-esterified fatty acids (NEFAs) or free fatty acids (FFAs). FFAs are always bound to a transport protein, such as albumin.\n\nFatty acids are usually produced industrially by the hydrolysis of triglycerides, with the removal of glycerol (see oleochemicals). Phospholipids represent another source. Some fatty acids are produced synthetically by hydrocarboxylation of alkenes.\n\nIn animals, fatty acids are formed from carbohydrates predominantly in the liver, adipose tissue, and the mammary glands during lactation.\n\nCarbohydrates are converted into pyruvate by glycolysis as the first important step in the conversion of carbohydrates into fatty acids. Pyruvate is then decarboxylated to form acetyl-CoA in the mitochondrion. However, this acetyl CoA needs to be transported into cytosol where the synthesis of fatty acids occurs. This cannot occur directly. To obtain cytosolic acetyl-CoA, citrate (produced by the condensation of acetyl-CoA with oxaloacetate) is removed from the citric acid cycle and carried across the inner mitochondrial membrane into the cytosol. There it is cleaved by ATP citrate lyase into acetyl-CoA and oxaloacetate. The oxaloacetate is returned to the mitochondrion as malate. The cytosolic acetyl-CoA is carboxylated by acetyl CoA carboxylase into malonyl-CoA, the first committed step in the synthesis of fatty acids.\n\nMalonyl-CoA is then involved in a repeating series of reactions that lengthens the growing fatty acid chain by two carbons at a time. Almost all natural fatty acids, therefore, have even numbers of carbon atoms. When synthesis is complete the free fatty acids are nearly always combined with glycerol (three fatty acids to one glycerol molecule) to form triglycerides, the main storage form of fatty acids, and thus of energy in animals. However, fatty acids are also important components of the phospholipids that form the phospholipid bilayers out of which all the membranes of the cell are constructed (the cell wall, and the membranes that enclose all the organelles within the cells, such as the nucleus, the mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, and the Golgi apparatus).\n\nThe \"uncombined fatty acids\" or \"free fatty acids\" found in the circulation of animals come from the breakdown (or lipolysis) of stored triglycerides. Because they are insoluble in water, these fatty acids are transported bound to plasma albumin. The levels of \"free fatty acids\" in the blood are limited by the availability of albumin binding sites. They can be taken up from the blood by all cells that have mitochondria (with the exception of the cells of the central nervous system). Fatty acids can only be broken down in mitochondria, by means of beta-oxidation followed by further combustion in the citric acid cycle to CO and water. Cells in the central nervous system, which, although they possess mitochondria, cannot take free fatty acids up from the blood, as the blood-brain barrier is impervious to most free fatty acids, excluding short-chain fatty acids and medium-chain fatty acids. These cells have to manufacture their own fatty acids from carbohydrates, as described above, in order to produce and maintain the phospholipids of their cell membranes, and those of their organelles.\n\nThe following table gives the fatty acid, vitamin E and cholesterol composition of some common dietary fats.\n\nFatty acids exhibit reactions like other carboxylic acids, i.e. they undergo esterification and acid-base reactions.\n\nFatty acids do not show a great variation in their acidities, as indicated by their respective p\"K\". Nonanoic acid, for example, has a p\"K\" of 4.96, being only slightly weaker than acetic acid (4.76). As the chain length increases, the solubility of the fatty acids in water decreases, so that the longer-chain fatty acids have minimal effect on the pH of an aqueous solution. Even those fatty acids that are insoluble in water will dissolve in warm ethanol, and can be titrated with sodium hydroxide solution using phenolphthalein as an indicator. This analysis is used to determine the free fatty acid content of fats; i.e., the proportion of the triglycerides that have been hydrolyzed.\n\nNeutralization of fatty acids, i.e. saponification, is a widely practiced route to metallic soaps.\n\nHydrogenation of unsaturated fatty acids is widely practiced. Typical conditions involve 2.0–3.0 MPa of H pressure, 150 °C, and nickel supported on silica as a catalyst. This treatment affords saturated fatty acids. The extent of hydrogenation is indicated by the iodine number. Hydrogenated fatty acids are less prone toward rancidification. Since the saturated fatty acids are higher melting than the unsaturated precursors, the process is called hardening. Related technology is used to convert vegetable oils into margarine. The hydrogenation of triglycerides (vs fatty acids) is advantageous because the carboxylic acids degrade the nickel catalysts, affording nickel soaps. During partial hydrogenation, unsaturated fatty acids can be isomerized from \"cis\" to \"trans\" configuration.\n\nMore forcing hydrogenation, i.e. using higher pressures of H and higher temperatures, converts fatty acids into fatty alcohols. Fatty alcohols are, however, more easily produced from fatty acid esters.\n\nIn the Varrentrapp reaction certain unsaturated fatty acids are cleaved in molten alkali, a reaction at one time of relevance to structure elucidation.\n\nUnsaturated fatty acids undergo a chemical change known as auto-oxidation. The process requires oxygen (air) and is accelerated by the presence of trace metals. Vegetable oils resist this process to a small degree because they contain antioxidants, such as tocopherol. Fats and oils often are treated with chelating agents such as citric acid to remove the metal catalysts.\n\nUnsaturated fatty acids are susceptible to degradation by ozone. This reaction is practiced in the production of azelaic acid ((CH)(COH)) from oleic acid.\n\nIn chemical analysis, fatty acids are separated by gas chromatography of methyl esters; additionally, a separation of unsaturated isomers is possible by argentation thin-layer chromatography.\n\nShort- and medium-chain fatty acids are absorbed directly into the blood via intestine capillaries and travel through the portal vein just as other absorbed nutrients do. However, long-chain fatty acids are not directly released into the intestinal capillaries. Instead they are absorbed into the fatty walls of the intestine villi and reassembled again into triglycerides. The triglycerides are coated with cholesterol and protein (protein coat) into a compound called a chylomicron.\n\nFrom within the cell, the chylomicron is released into a lymphatic capillary called a lacteal, which merges into larger lymphatic vessels. It is transported via the lymphatic system and the thoracic duct up to a location near the heart (where the arteries and veins are larger). The thoracic duct empties the chylomicrons into the bloodstream via the left subclavian vein. At this point the chylomicrons can transport the triglycerides to tissues where they are stored or metabolized for energy.\n\nWhen metabolized, fatty acids yield large quantities of ATP. Many cell types can use either glucose or fatty acids for this purpose. Fatty acids (provided either by ingestion or by drawing on triglycerides stored in fatty tissues) are distributed to cells to serve as a fuel for muscular contraction and general metabolism. They are broken down to CO and water by the intra-cellular mitochondria, releasing large amounts of energy, captured in the form of ATP through beta oxidation and the citric acid cycle.\n\nFatty acids that are required for good health but cannot be made in sufficient quantity from other substrates, and therefore must be obtained from food, are called essential fatty acids. There are two series of essential fatty acids: one has a double bond three carbon atoms away from the methyl end; the other has a double bond six carbon atoms away from the methyl end. Humans lack the ability to introduce double bonds in fatty acids beyond carbons 9 and 10, as counted from the carboxylic acid side. Two essential fatty acids are linoleic acid (LA) and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA). These fatty acids are widely distributed in plant oils. The human body has a limited ability to convert ALA into the longer-chain omega-3 fatty acids — eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which can also be obtained from fish. Omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids are biosynthetic precursors to endocannabinoids with antinociceptive, anxiolytic, and neurogenic properties.\n\nBlood fatty acids are in different forms in different stages in the blood circulation. They are taken in through the intestine in chylomicrons, but also exist in very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) and low density lipoproteins (LDL) after processing in the liver. In addition, when released from adipocytes, fatty acids exist in the blood as free fatty acids.\n\nIt is proposed that the blend of fatty acids exuded by mammalian skin, together with lactic acid and pyruvic acid, is distinctive and enables animals with a keen sense of smell to differentiate individuals.\n\nFatty acids are mainly used in the production of soap, both for cosmetic purposes and, in the case of metallic soaps, as lubricants. Fatty acids are also converted, via their methyl esters, to fatty alcohols and fatty amines, which are precursors to surfactants, detergents, and lubricants. Other applications include their use as emulsifiers, texturizing agents, wetting agents, anti-foam agents, or stabilizing agents.\n\nEsters of fatty acids with simpler alcohols (such as methyl-, ethyl-, n-propyl-, isopropyl- and butyl esters) are used as emollients in cosmetics and other personal care products and as synthetic lubricants. Esters of fatty acids with more complex alcohols, such as sorbitol, ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, and polyethylene glycol are consumed in food, or used for personal care and water treatment, or used as synthetic lubricants or fluids for metal working.\n\n"}
{"id": "11671374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11671374", "title": "Fender Reverb Unit", "text": "Fender Reverb Unit\n\nThe Fender Reverb Unit (6G15) was a vacuum tube, spring reverb-equipped effects unit made by Fender. The Reverb Unit was originally introduced in 1961. It was discontinued in 1966 and was replaced by a solid-state model, the FR1000. The unit features three controls: Dwell, Mixer and Tone and includes a 12AT7 tube as a preamplifier; a 6K6 tube as the reverb driver; and a 12AX7 as the reverb recovery tube. The rectifier is a diode-type solid state unit. The circuit board, like Fender's Brownface, Blackface and Silverface amplifiers is an eyelet board and the unit its completely hand wired. The spring reverb “tank” is mounted on the interior side of the front baffle in a vertical position. Tanks were supplied by Gibbs and Accutronics in the original version. The vertically mounted tank should be a 4AB3C1C (last letter in Accutronics model designation indicates tank orientation) but most actually shipped with 4AB3C1B tanks which are designed for horizontal mounting; these are the same ones found in the Fender combo amps where it is mounted of the floor in a horizontal configuration. Physically, the unit looks like a small amplifier head and since the early 1960s the unit has become synonymous with surf music.\n\nThe tube reverb was reintroduced in 1976 with a silver control panel (\"Silverface\"). It was discontinued in 1978. This reissue differs significantly from the original 6G15 circuit. The unit has 4 tubes: V1 (Input/preamplifier, a 12AX7 as opposed to a 12AT7 in the earlier three-tube version), V2 (reverb driver, a 6V6 as opposed to a 6K6 in the original), V3 (reverb recovery, a 12AX7), and V4 (a buffer stage, using another 12AX7). V4 acts to reduce changes in output impedance when the wet-dry mix is varied, ameliorating the “tone suck” (loss of volume and some high frequency signal) seen with the original and later reissue 3 tube versions.\n\nA reissue of the original tube reverb was introduced in 1994. Some changes in the circuit were made to accommodate a 6V6 reverb driver tube, replacing the obsolete 6K6. Reissues also have two printed circuit boards (potentiometers are mounted on the smaller of the two) and a mix of hand wiring and spade connectors. It is available with white, black or brown tolex. Fender also now makes a tweed-covered Reverb Unit to match its Tweed amplifiers of the 1950s.\n"}
{"id": "28070680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28070680", "title": "Forest Vegetation Simulator", "text": "Forest Vegetation Simulator\n\nThe Forest Vegetation Simulator (FVS) is a forest growth and yield model developed by the United States Forest Service and is used by natural resource managers and researchers. FVS is calibrated for specific geographic areas and uses a host of simulation models to forecast forest composition and structure.\n\nFVS uses current forest inventory data to describe initial stand conditions and requires a description of the inventory design, stand attributes, and a list of individual tree information. Extensions to FVS are available to assess the effects of forest insects and diseases, fire, and forest carbon.\n\nFVS is an empirical forest growth model based on the Forest Inventory and Analysis (FIA) plots. It models individual tree growth as a function of average stand characteristics. Each of the regional variants is based on FIA plots within the region. The model is designed to produce reasonable approximations of forest growth which agree with the -3/2 thinning law and a basal area maximum.\n"}
{"id": "43813777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43813777", "title": "Forestry Research Institute of Sweden", "text": "Forestry Research Institute of Sweden\n\nThe Forestry Research Institute of Sweden (), or Skogforsk, is a research institute headquartered in Uppsala, jointly financed by the members of the Swedish forestry industry and the Government. The institute aims to provide the industry with knowledge, products, and services, for more cost-effective and sustainable forestry, leading to increased competitiveness and realization of societal goals. Research efforts are primarily focused on tree breeding, production engineering and logistics. Other important research areas are environmental protection, silviculture, forest bioenergy and utilization. The institute has budget of approximately SEK 150 M, with a staff of 100 people, of which about 60 are researchers.\n\n"}
{"id": "26712551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26712551", "title": "Hybrid electric vehicles in the United States", "text": "Hybrid electric vehicles in the United States\n\nThe fleet of hybrid electric vehicles in the United States, with over 4 million units sold through April 2016, is the second largest in the world after Japan (over 5 million). American sales of hybrid electric vehicles represent about 36% of the more than 11 million hybrid sold worldwide through April 2016. Since their inception in 1999, a total of 4,058,258 hybrid electric automobiles and sport utility vehicles have been sold in the country through May 2016. Sales of hybrid vehicles in the U.S. began to decline following the financial crisis of 2007–08, and after a short recovery, began to decline again in 2014 due to low gasoline prices. Hybrid sales in the American market achieved its highest market share ever in 2013, capturing 3.19% of new car sales that year, and dropped below 2% by April 2016.\n\nThe top selling hybrid electric vehicle in the country is the conventional Toyota Prius, which has sold 1,643,000 units since 2000 through April 2016, representing a 40.8% market share of all hybrids sold in the U.S. since 1999. Cumulative sales of the Prius nameplate totaled 1,932,805 units delivered through April 2016, representing a 48.0% market share of total hybrid sales in the U.S. , the conventional Prius is followed by the Toyota Camry Hybrid, with 345,640 units sold since 2006, the Honda Civic Hybrid, with cumulative sales of 234,610 vehicles since 2002, the Ford Fusion Hybrid with 166,341 units since 2009, and the Toyota Prius c with 165,075 units since 2012.\n\nCalifornia has been the state leading hybrid sales in the U.S. with 55,553 vehicles sold in 2009, 74,932 in 2008, and 91,417 in 2007. In 2009 it was followed by New York (15,438) and Florida (14,949). In terms of new hybrids sold per capita, the District of Columbia was the leader in 2009 with 3.79 hybrids per 1000 residents, followed by California (1.54) and Washington (1.53). The top 5 U. S. metropolitan area markets for sales of hybrid electric vehicles in 2009 were Los Angeles (26,677), New York (21,193), San Francisco (15,799), Washington, D.C. (11,595), and Chicago (8,990). From January to July 2013, the three cities with the highest electric drive car registrations, including hybrids, all-electric cars and plug-in hybrids, were all located in California: Atherton (19.4%) and Los Altos (16.1%) in the Silicon Valley, followed by Santa Monica (15.0%), located in Los Angeles County.\n\nPurchases from the Obama administration occurring for 25% of Ford and General Motors hybrid-electric vehicles sold between January 2009 and late 2010. During this period hybrids accounted for about 10% of the 145,473 vehicles bought by the U.S. General Services Administration.\n\nAmerican sales of hybrid electric vehicles represent about 36% of the more than 11 million hybrids sold worldwide through April 2016. Since 1999, cumulative hybrid car sales in the American market passed the 2 million mark in May 2011, the 3 million milestone in October 2013, and 4 million in April 2016, allowing the U.S. to rank as the world's second largest hybrid market after Japan (over 5 million). Sales of hybrid vehicles in the U.S. began to decline following the financial crisis of 2007–08, and after a short recovery, began to decline again in 2014 due to low gasoline prices. Hybrid sales in the American market achieved its highest market share ever in 2013, capturing 3.19% of new car sales that year. At the end of 2015 the hybrid take rate had fallen to 2.21%, and dropped to 1.85% for hybrid sales between January and April 2016.\n\nA total of 4,058,258 hybrid electric automobiles and sport utility vehicles (SUVs) have been sold in the country through May 2016, led by the Toyota Prius, which passed the 1 million mark in April 2011, and has sold 1,643,000 units since 2000 through April 2016, representing a 40.8% market share of all hybrids sold in the U.S. since their inception in 1999. The Toyota Prius family is the market leader with 1,932,805 units sold through April 2016, representing a 48.0% market share of total hybrid sales in the U.S. Out of the 9.0145 million hybrids sold worldwide by Toyota Motor Company through April 2016, the United States accounted for 44.7% of TMC global hybrid sales.\n\nSales of Prius family vehicles in California represented 26% of all Prius purchases in the U.S. during 2012. With 60,688 units sold during this year, the Prius became the best selling nameplate in California, ahead of the previous leader, the Honda Civic (57,124 units) and the third ranked, the Toyota Camry (50,250 units). Again in 2013, the Prius nameplate was the best selling vehicle in California with 69,728 units sold in the state, ahead of the Honda Civic (66,982) and the Honda Accord (63,194). Nationwide, the best selling vehicle in 2013 was the Ford F-Series pickup, which has been the best selling vehicle for more than three decades.\n\n, sales of the conventional Prius are followed by the Toyota Camry Hybrid, with 345,640 units sold since 2006, the Honda Civic Hybrid, with cumulative sales of 234,610 vehicles since 2002, the Ford Fusion Hybrid with 166,341 units since 2009, and the Toyota Prius c with 165,075 units since 2012. Among the hybrids built by American manufacturers, the siblings Lincoln MKZ/Mercury Milan/Fusion Hybrids rank first, with combined sales of 200,899 units since 2009 through 2015, followed by the Ford Escape Hybrid and its sibling the Mercury Mariner Hybrid with combined sales of 130,803 vehicles between 2004 and 2012, when the hybrid lineup was discontinued. Ranking next is the Ford C-Max Hybrid, with 72,330 units sold since 2012 through 2015, and the Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid with 38,204 units since 2008.\n\nA total of 434,498 hybrid electric vehicles were sold during 2012, and the hybrid market share of total new car sales in the country was 3.0%, up from 2.1% in 2011. The top five selling hybrids during 2012 were the Toyota Prius liftback (147,503), the second generation Camry Hybrid (45,626), Prius v (1,669), Prius c (35,733), and the Hyundai Sonata Hybrid (20,754). Toyota sold 223,905 Priuses among the various HEV family members in the U.S. in 2012, representing together a market share of 51.5% of all hybrid sold in the country that year.\n\nDuring 2013 hybrid sales totaled 495,685 units, up 14.1% from 2012 and representing a market share of 3.19% of new car sales. The top five selling hybrids during this period were the conventional Prius (145,172), second generation Camry Hybrid (44,448), Prius c (41,979), second generation Fusion Hybrid (37,270), and the Prius v (34,989). Combined Prius family vehicles reached 222,140 units representing a market share of 44.8%, down from 51.5% in the year 2012, while Ford Motor Company increased its market share of the conventional hybrid market from 7.5% in 2012 to 14.7% in 2013.\n\nFord experienced record sales of its hybrids models in the U.S. during 2013, with 72,795 units sold, almost triple the 2012 total. During the second quarter of 2013 Ford achieved its best hybrid sales quarter ever, up 517% over the same quarter of 2012. In 2013 Toyota’s hybrid market share in the U.S. declined from 2012 totals due to new competition, particularly from Ford with the arrival of new products such as the C-Max Hybrid and the new styling of the Fusion. Except for the Prius c, sales of the other models of the Prius family and the Camry Hybrid suffered a decline from 2012, while the Fusion Hybrid experienced a 164.3% increased from 2012, and C-Max Hybrid sales climbed 156.6%.\n\nHybrid sales totaled 452,152 units, down 8.8% from the previous year. The hybrid market share was 2.75% of new car sales, down from 3.19% in 2013, and the lowest since 2011. The best selling Prius Liftback was down 15.4% from 2013, driving the decline in sales of the segment. The top five selling hybrids in 2014 were the conventional Prius (122,776), Prius c (40,570), second generation Camry Hybrid (39,515), second generation Fusion Hybrid (35,405), and the Prius v (30,762), all down from the previous year. Combined Prius family vehicles reached 194,108 units representing a market share of 42.9%, down from 44.8% the previous year. Some of the few models with a significant growth in their year-to-year sales were the second generation Honda Accord, Infinti Q50 Hybrid, Nissan Pathfinder Hybrid, and the Chevrolet Impala eAssist.\n\nThe following table presents historical hybrid sales figures by vehicle model in the United States since 1999 through December 30, 2014, in order of total historical sales from 1999 to 2014. Family of vehicles sharing nameplate/marque (i.e. Toyota Prius) or exactly the same powertrain (i.e. Ford Fusion Hybrid and Lincoln MKZ Hybrid) are grouped together.\n\nThe top 5 U. S. metropolitan area markets for sales of hybrid electric vehicles in 2009 were Los Angeles (26,677), New York (21,193), San Francisco (15,799), Washington, D.C. (11,595), and Chicago (8,990). The following table summarizes the top metropolitan area markets in terms of new hybrids sold per capita.\n\nConsidering hybrid sales between January 2010 through September 2011, the top selling metropolitan region was the San Francisco Bay Area, with 8.4% of all new cars sold during that period, followed by Monterey-Salinas with 6.9%, and Eugene, Oregon, with 6.1%. The following seven top selling markets are also on the West Coast, including Seattle-Tacoma and Los Angeles with 5.7%, San Diego with 5.6%, and Portland with 5.4%. The Washington D.C. Metro Area, with 4.2%, is the next best selling region out of the West Coast.\n\nEconomic and environmental performance comparison among hybrid models sold in the U.S. (models 2009-2016)\n\n"}
{"id": "45026057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45026057", "title": "Letsatsi Solar Park", "text": "Letsatsi Solar Park\n\nThe Letsatsi Solar Park is a 75-megawatt (MW) solar photovoltaic power station in Bloemfontein, Free State, South Africa. The solar park uses 277,632 conventional, multicrystalline silicon PV solar panels and went fully on line in May 2014. Its annual generation will be about 150 gigawatt-hours, enough to supply electricity for about 50,000 to 60,000 homes, while reducing the use of pollution-generating fossil fuels. The Letsatsi Solar Park cost $487 million and is operated by the Letsatsi Solar Energy Ltd., which plans to operate the solar park for at least 20 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "56567343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56567343", "title": "Lungzubel", "text": "Lungzubel\n\nLungzubel which means \"Stone rice beer containers or jars\" in the Biate language are stone relics found in the southwestern part of Dima Hasao district in Assam and its surrounding areas extending to the neighboring state of Meghalaya.\nLungzubel means a rice beer jar or container in the Biate language. The literal meaning of Lungzubel are – 'Lung' means Stone, 'Zu' means Rice beer and 'Bel' means Jar, which comes together as “Stone Rice Beer Jar”.\n\nLungzubels are one of the historical treasures of the Biate tribe. However, the origin of the Lungzubels remains shrouded in obscurity. According to Biate legends and elders, erection and carving of stone monuments has been the cultural practice of the Biate tribe from time immemorial, the most popular among them viz. the Lungzubels, Lungmaicham (stone altar), etc. These stone monuments or relics are generally a pictogram of a successful or triumphant Biate chief or warriors who gained honour in the past. Moreover, the fact that rice beer used to play an important role in the rituals and festivals of the Biates in the past throw much light on why the Lungzubels were carved out. One theory also holds that these stone jars are the handiwork of Lamlira, a legendary Biate warrior who led the Biates to their present hills believed to be in the 12-13th century.\n\nLungzubels are not confined to a particular place but are spread out in all Biate inhabited areas in the southwestern part of Dima Hasao district and the adjoining state of Meghalaya across the Kangkalang (Kopili) river mainly in the Saipung Elaka, East Jaintia Hills district. Dr.B.Pakem, a renowned writer and former Vice-Chancellor of North Eastern Hill University also wrote that these round stones and hollow ground resemble those found in the nearby Sumer Elaka, between Umkyurpong and Kseh villages in Meghalaya. He believed that it might have been the sacrificial or dancing places of the Biates' forefathers in the past. In Dima Hasao, the most well-known location is a small Biate village called Khobak, about 130 km from the district headquarters Haflong. Lungzubels are also found in some other areas albeit in small numbers. It is widely believed that these places may also have been inhabited by the Biates in olden days.\n\nMost of the relics were gradually destroyed over time, by nature or man, as it was left abandoned and unguarded for a long time.It is believed that the advent of Christianity among the Biates in the 19th century could have been the main reason behind the neglect of these cultural treasures as Christianity doesn't encourage intoxicated drinks of any kind. Originally animists, conversion to the new faith may have led the Biates to abandon their age old practice of brewing rice beer which is still a practice among some of their neighboring brethren tribes.\n\nEncouragingly, because of the relentless efforts of the Biate Devanpui (Biate Apex Body) and the Biate Cultural Organization, Assam (BCOA), the importance of the relics and the need for its preservation have been acknowledged, and hence, as a result, Lungzubels around Khobak and its surrounding areas in Dima Hasao district are now being maintained and looked after by the Archaeological Dept. of the Department of Cultural Affairs, Assam. Moreover, with a view to promote tourism in the district as well as to showcase the Lungzubels to the world, Lungzubel festival was also organised by the Biate Cultural Organisation (BCO) of Assam, in collaboration with 22 Sector Assam Rifles, State Tourism Department and Archaeological Department and a Haflong-based NGO named Make a Difference (MaD) Society, on September 16, 2015 at Khobak where thousands of people from all spheres attended the day-long programme that included a pipe band display by the Assam Rifles and traditional dances performed by the local villagers belonging to the Biate community. The steps taken by the Assam Government has been commendable and the Lungzubels are now well looked after.\nIn the neighboring Meghalaya state, however, no concrete steps have been taken by the Government of Meghalaya to preserve the Lungzubels found in East Jaintia Hills district as of yet. They continue to be in a state of neglect.\n\nKhobak is well connected by an all weather motorable road and one can visit the place at any time of the year. It is located about 130 km from Haflong.\n\n"}
{"id": "42317866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42317866", "title": "Lutetium-yttrium oxyorthosilicate", "text": "Lutetium-yttrium oxyorthosilicate\n\nLutetium-yttrium oxyorthosilicate, also known as LYSO, is an inorganic chemical compound with main use as a scintillator crystal. Its chemical formula is LuYSiO. It is commonly used to build electromagnetic calorimeters in particle physics. LYSO crystals have the advantages of high light output and density, quick decay time, excellent energy resolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "9373249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9373249", "title": "Modec", "text": "Modec\n\nModec was an electric vehicle manufacturer in Coventry, in the United Kingdom, specialising in Commercial vehicles in the N2 category. It unveiled its first model in April 2006 and announced its intention to commence series production in March 2007, with the first production vehicles destined for Tesco. Following a long-term decline in sales, it entered administration in March 2011, with all remaining assets and intellectual property sold to Navistar International.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFollowing a long-term decline in sales with a total production of around 400 vehicles, and following the failure of a rescue deal with Navistar, Modec entered administration in March 2011 with debts of over £40m. Navistar subsequently bought the intellectual property rights from administrators Zolfo Cooper.\n\nFollowing the closure of the business and sale of the assets, Liberty Electric Cars hired the entire Modec engineering team and set up a new subsidiary \"Liberty E-Tech\". After failing in January 2011 to agree a deal with Navistar to buy the brand, in July 2011 Liberty launched a service called \"e-Care\" to service and maintain Modec vehicles, which presently covers the UK, France, Germany and Dubai.\n\nThe only product of the Modec company was the Modec EV commercial vehicle. It was produced in three versions; a chassis cab, box van and a dropside. All three shared a common wheelbase of and a steel ladder frame chassis. The Modec has a kerb weight of 3.3 tonnes and a max gross capacity of 6.05 tonnes.\n\nThe vehicles use an motor with of torque and an exchangeable lead-acid battery which is charged from an external charger than requires a 32amp 3-phase supply to charge the vehicle for 6 hours, it also has options for Lithium-Ion Phosphate or Sodium Nickel chloride batteries.\n\nIt has a range and a top speed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1663056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1663056", "title": "Monroney sticker", "text": "Monroney sticker\n\nThe Monroney sticker or window sticker is a label required in the United States to be displayed in all new automobiles and includes the listing of certain official information about the car. The window sticker was named after Almer Stillwell \"Mike\" Monroney, United States Senator from Oklahoma. Monroney sponsored the Automobile Information Disclosure Act of 1958, which mandated the disclosure of equipment and pricing information on new automobiles.\n\nSince the mid-1970s the United States Environmental Protection Agency provides fuel economy metrics in the label to help consumers choose more fuel efficient vehicles.\n\nNew requirements for the Monroney label were issued for 2008 cars and light-duty trucks sold in the US. The 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA) mandated inclusion of additional information about fuel efficiency as well as ratings on each vehicle's greenhouse gas emissions and other air pollutants.\n\nA more comprehensive fuel economy and environment label was mandatory beginning in model year 2013, though some carmakers adopted it voluntarily for model year 2012. The new window sticker includes specific labels for alternative fuel and alternative propulsion vehicles available in the US market, such as plug-in hybrids, electric vehicles, flexible-fuel vehicles, hydrogen fuel cell vehicle, and natural gas vehicles. \n\nThe new label introduces the comparison of alternative fuel and advanced technology vehicles with conventional internal combustion engine vehicles using miles per gallon of gasoline equivalent (MPGe) as a metric. Other information provided for the first time includes greenhouse gas and smog emissions ratings, estimates of fuel cost over the next five years, and a QR Code that can be scanned by a smartphone to allow users access to additional online information.\n\nThe Monroney sticker is required to be affixed to the side window or windshield of every new car sold in the United States and can only be removed by the consumer (Chapter 28, Sections 1231-1233, Title 15 of the United States Code). A fine of up to per vehicle for each offense is authorized if the sticker is missing, and other fees and penalties are authorized if the sticker is altered illegally (including imprisonment). The act does not apply to vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of more than .\n\nThe sticker must include the following information:\n\nAs required by the 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA), with the introduction of advanced-technology vehicles in the U.S. new information should be incorporated in the Monroney label of new cars and light-duty trucks sold in the country, such as ratings on fuel economy, greenhouse gas emissions, and other air pollutants. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) conducted a series of studies to determine the best way to redesign this label to provide consumers with simple energy and environmental comparisons across all vehicles types, including battery electric vehicles (BEV), plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV), and conventional internal combustion engine vehicles powered by gasoline and diesel, in order to help consumers choose more efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles.\nAs part of the research and redesign process, EPA conducted focus groups where presented participants with several options to express the consumption of electricity for plug-in electric vehicles. The research showed that participants did not understand the concept of a kilowatt hour as a measure of electric energy use in spite of the fact that this is the metric used in their monthly electric bills. Instead, participants favored a miles per gallon of gasoline equivalent, MPGe, as the metric to compare with the familiar miles per gallon used for gasoline vehicles. The research also concluded that the kW-hrs per 100 miles metric was more confusing to focus group participants compared to a miles per kW-hr. Based on these results, EPA decided to use the following fuel economy and fuel consumption metrics on the redesigned labels: MPG (city and highway, and combined); MPGe (city and highway, and combined); Gallons per 100 miles; kW-hrs per 100 miles.\n\nThe proposed design and final content for two options of the new sticker label that will be introduced in 2013 model year cars and trucks were consulted for 60 days with the public in 2010, and both included miles per gallon equivalent and kW-hrs per 100 miles as the fuel economy metrics for plug-in cars, but in one option MPGe and annual electricity cost are the two most prominent metrics. One of the design options had a letter grading system from A to D and the rating would have compared a given vehicle’s fuel economy and air pollution to those of the entire fleet of new cars. The letter grade system was opposed by carmakers and rejected after the public consultation. In November 2010, EPA introduced MPGe as comparison metric on its new sticker for fuel economy for the Nissan Leaf and the Chevrolet Volt.\n\nIn May 2011, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and EPA issued a joint final rule establishing new requirements for a fuel economy and environment label that will be mandatory for all new passenger cars and trucks starting with model year 2013, though carmakers can adopt it voluntarily for model year 2012. The ruling include new labels for alternative fuel and alternative propulsion vehicles available in the US market, such as plug-in hybrids, electric vehicles, flexible-fuel vehicles, hydrogen fuel cell vehicle, and natural gas vehicles. The common fuel economy metric adopted to allow the comparison of alternative fuel and advanced technology vehicles with conventional internal combustion engine vehicles is miles per gallon of gasoline equivalent (MPGe). A gallon of gasoline equivalent means the number of kilowatt-hours of electricity, cubic feet of compressed natural gas (CNG), or kilograms of hydrogen that is equal to the energy in a gallon of gasoline.\n\nThe new labels include for the first time an estimate of how much fuel or electricity it takes to drive , providing U.S. consumers with fuel consumption per distance traveled, the efficiency metric commonly used in many other countries. EPA's objective is to avoid the traditional miles per gallon metric that can be potentially misleading when consumers compare fuel economy improvements, and known as the \"MPG illusion.\"\n\nOther information provided for the first time in the redesigned labels includes:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28098321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28098321", "title": "NC State University (Lot 86, Farm Unit 1)", "text": "NC State University (Lot 86, Farm Unit 1)\n\nNC State University (Lot 86, Farm Unit 1) is a Superfund site in Raleigh, North Carolina located to the north of Carter–Finley Stadium. It is a site that was used from 1969 until 1980 to dispose of hazardous waste from laboratories and research facilities. The North Carolina State University Department of Marine, Earth, and Atmospheric Sciences began monitoring the site in 1981, drilling wells and sampling the groundwater. Groundwater remediation is currently being conducted at the site via pump and treat methods to remove chemicals of concern, including chloroform, bromoform, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, and methylene chloride.\n\n\"The groundwater remediation system consists of approximately 18 pumping wells that penetrate the contamination. Special chemical resistant pumps pump the contaminated groundwater to a treatment building above ground. Air Stripping is the primary form of treatment of the contaminated groundwater. Once treated, water is pumped to the sewer system for disposal.\"\n\nA solar farm is currently located on a portion of the site.\n"}
{"id": "6586146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6586146", "title": "NEG Micon", "text": "NEG Micon\n\nNEG Micon is a former Danish wind turbine manufacturer. It was formed in 1997 as a result of a merger between Nordtank Energy Group (NEG) and Moerup Industrial Windmill Construction Company (Micon).\n\nThe company was merged with another Danish wind turbine manufacturer, Vestas, in 2004, and it is now operating under that name. The company produced wind turbines for many different countries including Canada, Denmark, Germany, Sri Lanka and United States.\n\nNEG Micon turbine had 35 different models, and were very popular in the wind power industry, particularly the \"NM-48\", \"NM-52\", \"NM-72\", and \"NM-82\" turbines; and can be seen throughout major wind farms around the world.\n"}
{"id": "25769516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25769516", "title": "Nimbkar Agricultural Research Institute", "text": "Nimbkar Agricultural Research Institute\n\nNimbkar Agricultural Research Institute (NARI) is a non-governmental organisation and non-profit research and development institute in Tambmal, Phaltan, Maharashtra, India. The institute undertakes research and development in the fields of agriculture, renewable energy, animal husbandry and sustainable development. The institute was founded in 1968 by Shri B. V. Nimbkar, who remained its president until 1990. Dr.Anil K. Rajvanshi is currently the director of the institute whereas Dr. Nandini Nimbkar is the president.\n\nNARI has developed various safflower varieties and hybrids for both high oil content and petals. NARI is one of the research centers included in the All India Coordinated Research Project on Oilseeds for irrigated safflower under the aegis of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR, New Delhi). The institute has developed high yield varieties and hybrids of cotton, sunflower, safflower, and sweet sorghum (named Madhura), as well as technology for producing ethanol, jaggery and syrup from sweet sorghum. NARI also carries out agrochemical testing for various companies and research laboratories in India to the standards of the Central Insecticides Board for the purposes of registration of new agro-chemicals.\n\nWork in this field has been mostly in solar and biomass energy and recently in sustainable and environmentally friendly transport systems, ethanol lighting/cooking and handicapped rickshaw.\n\nThe research and development has focused mostly on all aspects of sheep and goat production. Improved breeds of sheep have been developed which are more productive than the local breed. Also boer goats are being used for cross breeding to improve meat production of the local goats.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14194283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14194283", "title": "Non-Hausdorff manifold", "text": "Non-Hausdorff manifold\n\nIn geometry and topology, it is a usual axiom of a manifold to be a Hausdorff space. In general topology, this axiom is relaxed, and one studies non-Hausdorff manifolds: spaces locally homeomorphic to Euclidean space, but not necessarily Hausdorff.\n\nThe most familiar non-Hausdorff manifold is the line with two origins, or bug-eyed line.\n\nThis is the quotient space of two copies of the real line\nwith the equivalence relation\n\nThis space has a single point for each nonzero real number \"r\" and two points 0 and 0. A local base of open neighborhoods of formula_2 in this space can be thought to consist of sets of the form formula_3, where formula_4 is any positive real number. A similar description of a local base of open neighborhoods of formula_5 is possible. Thus, in this space all neighbourhoods of 0 intersect all neighbourhoods of 0, so it is non-Hausdorff.\n\nFurther, the line with two origins does not have the homotopy type of a CW-complex, or of any Hausdorff space.\n\nSimilar to the line with two origins is the branching line.\n\nThis is the quotient space of two copies of the real line\nwith the equivalence relation\n\nThis space has a single point for each negative real number \"r\" and two points formula_7 for every non-negative number: it has a \"fork\" at zero.\n\nThe etale space of a sheaf, such as the sheaf of continuous real functions over a manifold, is a manifold that is often non-Hausdorff. (The etale space is Hausdorff if it is a sheaf of functions with some sort of analytic continuation property.)\n\nMark F. Sharlow claims that functional spacetime of path integral has a \"branching\" non-Hausdorff structure.\n\n"}
{"id": "54494747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54494747", "title": "Ortho-Diethynylbenzene dianion", "text": "Ortho-Diethynylbenzene dianion\n\n\"Ortho\"-diethynylbenzene dianion is a superbase with the chemical formula of [CH(C)]. The base was created in mass spectrometry experiments by researchers in Australia.\n\nThe largest possible proton affinity value for a base in a solution of water is that of hydroxide, 1,633.14 kJ/mol. Bases with higher proton affinities irreversibly abstract protons from water, and as a result the anions cannot be observed. Therefore, stronger bases must be used in an aprotic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran (oxolane). According to calculations, ortho-diethynylbenzene dianion is the strongest possible organic base, with a proton affinity of 1843 kJ mol.\n\nOrtho-diethynylbenzene dianion has two isomers: \"Meta-\"diethynylbenzene dianion and \"Para-\"diethynylbenzene dianion. Because these ions would abstract protons from any organic solvent, they are known only in the gas phase.\n\nSince ortho-diethynylbenzene dianion cannot be made in solution, investigation of the dianion is difficult. In the gas phase, however, the absence of any solvent interaction provides an ideal environment for investigating the basicity of the compound, and the gas phase value of the proton affinity can be calculated with greater precision.\n\nThe synthesis of ortho-diethynlbenzene dianion was performed in a linear quadrupole ion-trap mass spectometer. Electrospray Ionisation (ESI) of the diacid precursor results in the dicarboxylate dianion ([CH(CHO)]) losing two Hydrogen ions to become ([CH(CO)]). The dianion was mass-selected and then subjected to Collision Induced Dissociation (CID), resulting in the loss of two dioxide molecules and generation of the ortho-diethynylbenzene dianion:\nThe meta and para isomers were prepared analogously. \n\nReactions of the gas-phase dianions were studied by reacting with a small quantity of the desired reagent added to the helium carrier gas. Reaction with heavy water produced a singly-deuterated monanion with \"m/z\" 126. Reaction with benzene produced the phenide anion, \"m/z\" 77, highlighting the extreme basicity of the dianion. Attempted reaction with deuterium gas and deuterated methane was not successful despite the favourable thermodynamics; the authors attribute this to the high activation barrier for proton abstraction from those substrates.\n"}
{"id": "43183381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43183381", "title": "Parthenope (Siren)", "text": "Parthenope (Siren)\n\nParthenope () was one of the Sirens in Greek mythology. Her name means \"Maiden-voiced\".\n\nAccording to Greek legend, Parthenope was the daughter of the god Achelous and the Muse Terpsichore. She cast herself into the sea and drowned when her songs failed to entice Odysseus. Her body washed ashore at Naples, on the island of Megaride, where the Castel dell'Ovo is now located. When people from the city of Cumae settled there, they named their city Parthenope in her honour.\n\nA Roman myth tells a different version of the tale, in which a centaur named Vesuvius was enamored with Parthenope. Angered, Jupiter turned the centaur into a stratovolcano and Parthenope into the city of Naples. Thwarted in his desire, Vesuvius' rage is manifested in the volcano's frequent violent eruptions.\n\nParthenope has been depicted in various forms of literature and art, from ancient coins that bore her semblance to the Fountain of the Spinacorona, where she is depicted quenching the fires of Vesuvius with water from her breasts. In his \"Georgics\", Virgil stated that he had been nurtured by Parthenope, writing:\n\nIn addition, Parthenope has served as the inspiration for a number of other works, such as Manuel de Zumaya's \"Partenope\" and the ancient Greek novel \"Mētiokhos kai Parthenopē\". Also, several operas based on the myth of Parthenope were composed on the 18th century by Sarro (1722), Vinci (1725), Handel (1730), Vivaldi (1738) and Hasse (1767).\n\n"}
{"id": "2713504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2713504", "title": "Porous silicon", "text": "Porous silicon\n\nPorous silicon (abbreviated as \"PS\" or \"pSi\") is a form of the chemical element silicon that has introduced nanopores in its microstructure, rendering a large surface to volume ratio in the order of 500 m/cm.\n\nPorous silicon was discovered by accident in 1956 by Arthur Uhlir Jr. and Ingeborg Uhlir at the Bell Labs in the U.S. At the time, the Ulhirs were in the process of developing a technique for polishing and shaping the surfaces of silicon and germanium. However, it was found that under several conditions a crude product in the form of thick black, red or brown film were formed on the surface of the material. At the time, the findings were not taken further and were only mentioned in Bell Lab's technical notes.\n\nDespite the discovery of porous silicon in the 1950s, the scientific community was not interested in porous silicon until the late 1980s. At the time, Leigh Canham – while working at the Defence Research Agency in England – reasoned that the porous silicon may display quantum confinement effects. The intuition was followed by successful experimental results published in 1990. In the published experiment, it was revealed that silicon wafers can emit light if subjected to electrochemical and chemical dissolution.\n\nThe published result stimulated the interest of the scientific community in its non-linear optical and electrical properties. The growing interest was evidenced in the number of published work concerning the properties and potential applications of porous silicon. In an article published in 2000, it was found that the number of published work grew exponentially in between 1991 and 1995.\n\nIn 2001, a team of scientists at the Technical University of Munich inadvertently discovered that hydrogenated porous silicon reacts explosively with oxygen at cryogenic temperatures, releasing several times as much energy as an equivalent amount of TNT, at a much greater speed. (An abstract of the study can be found below.) Explosion occurs because the oxygen, which is in a liquid state at the necessary temperatures, is able to oxidize through the porous molecular structure of the silicon extremely rapidly, causing a very quick and efficient detonation. Although hydrogenated porous silicon would probably not be effective as a weapon, due to its functioning only at low temperatures, other uses are being explored for its explosive properties, such as providing thrust for satellites.\n\nFabrication of porous silicon may range from initial formation through stain-etching or by forming an anodization cell. Drying, storage of porous silicon, and surface modification are needed afterwards. If anodization in an aqueous solution is used to form microporous silicon, the material is commonly treated in ethanol immediately after fabrication, to avoid damage to the structure that results due to the stresses of the capillary effect of the aqueous solution.\n\nOne method of introducing pores in silicon is through the use of an anodization cell. A possible anodization cell employs platinum cathode and silicon wafer anode immersed in hydrogen fluoride (HF) electrolyte. Recently, inert diamond cathodes are used to avoid metallic impurities in the electrolyte and inert diamond anodes form an improved electrical back plate contact to the silicon wafers. Corrosion of the anode is produced by running electric current through the cell. It is noted that the running of constant DC is usually implemented to ensure steady tip-concentration of HF resulting in a more homogeneous porosity layer although pulsed current is more appropriate for the formation of thick silicon wafers bigger than 50 µm.\n\nIt was noted by Halimaoui that hydrogen evolution occurs during the formation of porous silicon. \nWhen purely aqueous HF solutions are used for the PS formation, the hydrogen bubbles stick to the surface and induce lateral and in-depth inhomogeneity\nThe hydrogen evolution is normally treated with absolute ethanol in concentration exceeding 15%. It was found that the introduction of ethanol eliminates hydrogen and ensures complete infiltration of HF solution within the pores. Subsequently, uniform distribution of porosity and thickness is improved.\n\nIt is possible to obtain porous silicon through stain-etching with hydrofluoric acid, nitric acid and water. A publication in 1957 revealed that stain films can be grown in dilute solutions of nitric acid in concentrated hydrofluoric acid. Porous silicon formation by stain-etching is particularly attractive because of its simplicity and the presence of readily available corrosive reagents; namely nitric acid (HNO) and hydrogen fluoride (HF). Furthermore, stain-etching is useful if one needs to produce a very thin porous Si films. A publication in 1960 by R. J. Archer revealed that it is possible to create stain films as thin as 25 Å through stain-etching with HF-HNO solution.\n\nPorous silicon can be synthesized chemically from silicon tetrachloride, using self-forming salt byproducts as templates for pore formation. The salt templates are later removed with water.\n\nPorous silicon is systematically prone to presence of cracks when the water is evaporated. The cracks are particularly evident in thick or highly porous silicon layers. The origin of the cracks has been attributed to the large capillary stress due to the minute size of the pores. In particular, it has been known that cracks will appear for porous silicon samples with thickness larger than a certain critical value. Bellet concluded that it was impossible to avoid cracking in thick porous silicon layers under normal evaporating conditions. Hence, several appropriate techniques have been developed to minimize the risk of cracks formed during drying.\n\nSupercritical drying is reputed to be the most efficient drying technique but is rather expensive and difficult to implement. It was first implemented by Canham in 1994 and involves superheating the liquid pore above the critical point to avoid interfacial tension.\n\nFreeze drying procedure was first documented around 1996. After the formation of porous silicon, the sample is frozen at a temperature of about 200 K and sublimed under vacuum.\n\nThe technique uses pentane as the drying liquid instead of water. In doing so the capillary stress is reduced because pentane has a lower surface tension than water.\n\nSlow evaporating technique can be implemented following the water or ethanol rinsing. It was found that slow evaporation decreased the trap density\n\nThe surface of porous silicon may be modified to exhibit different properties. Often, freshly etched porous silicon may be unstable due to the rate of its oxidation by the atmosphere or unsuitable for cell attachment purposes. Therefore, it can be surface modified to improve stability and cell attachment\n\nFollowing the formation of porous silicon, its surface is covered with covalently bonded hydrogen. Although the hydrogen coated surface is sufficiently stable when exposed to inert atmosphere for a short period of time, prolonged exposure render the surface prone to oxidation by atmospheric oxygen. The oxidation promotes instability in the surface and is undesirable for many applications. Thus, several methods were developed to promote the surface stability of porous silicon.\n\nAn approach that can be taken is through thermal oxidation. The process involves heating the silicon to a temperature above 1000 C to promote full oxidation of silicon. The method reportedly produced samples with good stability to aging and electronic surface passivation.\n\nPorous silicon exhibits a high degree of biocompatibility. The large surface area enables organic molecules to adhere well. It degrades to Orthosillicic acid (HSiO), which causes no harm to the body. This has opened potential applications in medicine such as a framework of the growth of bone.\n\nSurface modification can also affect properties that promote cell adhesion. One particular research in 2005 studied the mammalian cell adhesion on the modified surfaces of porous silicon. The research used rat PC12 cells and Human Lens Epithelial (HLE) cells cultured for four hours on the surface modified porous silicon. Cells were then stained with vital dye FDA and observed under fluorescence microscopy. The research concluded that \"amino silanisation and coating the pSi surface with collagen enhanced cell attachment and spreading\".\n\nPorosity is defined as the fraction of void within the pSi layer and can be determined easily by weight measurement. During formation of porous silicon layer through anodization, the porosity of a wafer can be increased through increasing current density, decreasing HF concentration and thicker silicon layer. The porosity of porous silicon may range from 4% for macroporous layers to 95% for mesoporous layers. A study by Canham in 1995 found that \"a 1 µm thick layer of high porosity silicon completely dissolved within a day of in-vitro exposure to a simulated body fluid\". It was also found that a silicon wafer with medium to low porosity displayed more stability. Hence, the porosity of porous silicon is varied depending on its potential application areas.\n\nThe porosity value of silicon is a macroscopic parameter and doesn’t yield any information regarding the microstructure of the layer. It is proposed that the properties of a sample are more accurately predicted if the pore size and its distribution within the sample can be obtained. Therefore, porous silicon has been divided into three categories based on the size of its pores; macroporous, mesoporous, and microporous.\n\nPorous silicon studies conducted in 1995 showed that the behavior of porous silicon can be altered in between \"bio-inert\", \"bioactive\" and \"resorbable\" by varying the porosity of the silicon sample. The in-vitro study used simulated body fluid containing ion concentration similar to the human blood and tested the activities of porous silicon sample when exposed to the fluids for prolonged period of time. It was found that high porosity mesoporous layers were completely removed by the simulated body fluids within a day. In contrast, low to medium porosity microporous layers displayed more stable configurations and induced hydroxyapatite growth.\n\nThe first sign of porous silicon as a bioactive material was found in 1995. In the conducted study, it was found that hydroxyapatite growth was occurring on porous silicon areas. It was then suggested that \"hydrated microporous Si could be a bioactive form of the semiconductor and suggest that Si itself should be seriously considered for development as a material for widespread in vivo applications.\" Another paper published the finding that porous silicon may be used a substrate for hydroxyapatite growth either by simple soaking process or laser-liquid-solid interaction process.\n\nSince then, in-vitro studies have been conducted to evaluate the interaction of cells with porous silicon. A 1995 study of the interaction of B50 rat hippocampal cells with porous silicon found that B50 cells have clear preference for adhesion to porous silicon over untreated surface. The study indicated that porous silicon can be suitable for cell culturing purposes and can be used to control cell growth pattern.\n\nAnother positive attribute of porous silicon is the degradation of porous silicon into monomeric silicic acid (SiOH4). Silicic acid is reputed to be the most natural form of element in the environment and is readily removed by kidneys.\n\nThe human blood plasma contains monomeric silicic acid at levels of less than 1 mg Si/l, corresponding to the average dietary intake of 20–50 mg/day. It was proposed that the small thickness of silicon coatings presents minimal risk to a toxic concentration being reached. The proposal was supported by an experiment involving volunteers and silicic-acid drinks. It was found that concentration of the acid rose only briefly above the normal 1 mg Si/l level and was efficiently expelled by urine excretion.\n\nThe simple adjustment of pore morphology and geometry of porous silicon also offers a convenient way to control its wetting behavior. Stable ultra- and superhydrophobic states on porous silicon can be fabricated and used in lab-on-a-chip, microfluidic devices for the improved surface-based bioanalysis.\n\npSi demonstrates optical properties based on porosity and the medium inside the pores. The effective refractive index of pSi is determined by the porosity and refractive index of the medium inside the pores. If the refractive index of the medium inside pores is high, the effective refractive index of pSi will be high as well. This phenomenon causes the spectrum to shift towards longer wavelength.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "670376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=670376", "title": "Power-flow study", "text": "Power-flow study\n\nIn power engineering, the power-flow study, or load-flow study, is a numerical analysis of the flow of electric power in an interconnected system. A power-flow study usually uses simplified notations such as a one-line diagram and per-unit system, and focuses on various aspects of AC power parameters, such as voltages, voltage angles, real power and reactive power. It analyzes the power systems in normal steady-state operation.\n\nPower-flow or load-flow studies are important for planning future expansion of power systems as well as in determining the best operation of existing systems. The principal information obtained from the power-flow study is the magnitude and phase angle of the voltage at each bus, and the real and reactive power flowing in each line.\n\nCommercial power systems are usually too complex to allow for hand solution of the power flow. Special purpose network analyzers were built between 1929 and the early 1960s to provide laboratory-scale physical models of power systems. Large-scale digital computers replaced the analog methods with numerical solutions.\n\nIn addition to a power-flow study, computer programs perform related calculations such as short-circuit fault analysis, stability studies (transient and steady-state), unit commitment and economic dispatch. In particular, some programs use linear programming to find the \"optimal power flow\", the conditions which give the lowest cost per kilowatt hour delivered.\n\nA load flow study is especially valuable for a system with multiple load centers, such as a refinery complex. The power flow study is an analysis of the system’s capability to adequately supply the connected load. The total system losses, as well as individual line losses, also are tabulated. Transformer tap positions are selected to ensure the correct voltage at critical locations such as motor control centers. Performing a load flow study on an existing system provides insight and recommendations as to the system operation and optimization of control settings to obtain maximum capacity while minimizing the operating costs. The results of such an analysis are in terms of active power, reactive power, magnitude and phase angle. Furthermore, power-flow computations are crucial for optimal operations of groups of generating units.\n\nThe Open Energy Modelling Initiative promotes open source load-flow models and other types of energy system models.\n\nAn alternating current power-flow model is a model used in electrical engineering to analyze power grids. It provides a nonlinear system which describes the energy flow through each transmission line. The problem is non-linear because the power flow into load impedances is a function of the square of the applied voltages. Due to nonlinearity, in many cases the analysis of large network via AC power-flow model is not feasible, and a linear (but less accurate) DC power-flow model is used instead.\n\nUsually analysis of a three-phase system is simplified by assuming balanced loading of all three phases. Steady-state operation is assumed, with no transient changes in power flow or voltage due to load or generation changes. The system frequency is also assumed to be constant. A further simplification is to use the per-unit system to represent all voltages, power flows, and impedances, scaling the actual target system values to some convenient base. A system one-line diagram is the basis to build a mathematical model of the generators, loads, buses, and transmission lines of the system, and their electrical impedances and ratings.\n\nThe goal of a power-flow study is to obtain complete voltages angle and magnitude information for each bus in a power system for specified load and generator real power and voltage conditions. Once this information is known, real and reactive power flow on each branch as well as generator reactive power output can be analytically determined. Due to the nonlinear nature of this problem, numerical methods are employed to obtain a solution that is within an acceptable tolerance.\n\nThe solution to the power-flow problem begins with identifying the known and unknown variables in the system. The known and unknown variables are dependent on the type of bus. A bus without any generators connected to it is called a Load Bus. With one exception, a bus with at least one generator connected to it is called a Generator Bus. The exception is one arbitrarily-selected bus that has a generator. This bus is referred to as the slack bus.\n\nIn the power-flow problem, it is assumed that the real power \"P\" and reactive power \"Q\" at each Load Bus are known. For this reason, Load Buses are also known as PQ Buses. For Generator Buses, it is assumed that the real power generated \"P\" and the voltage magnitude |\"V\"| is known. For the Slack Bus, it is assumed that the voltage magnitude |\"V\"| and voltage phase \"Θ\" are known. Therefore, for each Load Bus, both the voltage magnitude and angle are unknown and must be solved for; for each Generator Bus, the voltage angle must be solved for; there are no variables that must be solved for the Slack Bus. In a system with \"N\" buses and \"R\" generators, there are then formula_1 unknowns.\n\nIn order to solve for the formula_1 unknowns, there must be formula_1 equations that do not introduce any new unknown variables. The possible equations to use are power balance equations, which can be written for real and reactive power for each bus.\nThe real power balance equation is:\n\nwhere formula_5 is the net active power injected at bus \"i\", formula_6 is the real part of the element in the bus admittance matrix Y corresponding to the formula_7 row and formula_8 column, formula_9 is the imaginary part of the element in the Y corresponding to the formula_7 row and formula_8 column and formula_12 is the difference in voltage angle between the formula_7 and formula_8 buses (formula_15). The reactive power balance equation is:\n\nwhere formula_17 is the net reactive power injected at bus \"i\".\n\nEquations included are the real and reactive power balance equations for each Load Bus and the real power balance equation for each Generator Bus. Only the real power balance equation is written for a Generator Bus because the net reactive power injected is assumed to be unknown and therefore including the reactive power balance equation would result in an additional unknown variable. For similar reasons, there are no equations written for the Slack Bus.\n\nIn many transmission systems, the voltage angles formula_12 are usually relatively small. There is thus a strong coupling between real power and voltage angle, and between reactive power and voltage magnitude, while the coupling between real power and voltage magnitude, as well as reactive power and voltage angle, is weak. As a result, real power is usually transmitted from the bus with higher voltage angle to the bus with lower voltage angle, and reactive power is usually transmitted from the bus with higher voltage magnitude to the bus with lower voltage magnitude. However, this approximation does not hold when the voltage angle is very large.\n\nThere are several different methods of solving the resulting nonlinear system of equations. The most popular is known as the Newton–Raphson method. This method begins with initial guesses of all unknown variables (voltage magnitude and angles at Load Buses and voltage angles at Generator Buses). Next, a Taylor Series is written, with the higher order terms ignored, for each of the power balance equations included in the system of equations .\nThe result is a linear system of equations that can be expressed as:\n\nwhere formula_20 and formula_21 are called the mismatch equations:\n\nformula_23\n\nand formula_24 is a matrix of partial derivatives known as a Jacobian:\nformula_25.\n\nThe linearized system of equations is solved to determine the next guess (\"m\" + 1) of voltage magnitude and angles based on:\n\nThe process continues until a stopping condition is met. A common stopping condition is to terminate if the norm of the mismatch equations is below a specified tolerance.\n\nA rough outline of solution of the power-flow problem is:\n\n"}
{"id": "37841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37841", "title": "Pulsed plasma thruster", "text": "Pulsed plasma thruster\n\nA pulsed plasma thruster (PPT), also known as a plasma jet engine, is a form of electric spacecraft propulsion. PPTs are generally considered the simplest form of electric spacecraft propulsion and were the first form of electric propulsion to be flown in space, having flown on two Soviet probes (Zond 2 and Zond 3) starting in 1964. PPTs are generally flown on spacecraft with a surplus of electricity from abundantly available solar energy.\n\nMost PPTs use a solid material (normally PTFE, more commonly known as Teflon) for propellant, although very few use liquid or gaseous propellants. The first stage in PPT operation involves an arc of electricity passing through the fuel, causing ablation and sublimation of the fuel. The heat generated by this arc causes the resultant gas to turn into plasma, thereby creating a charged gas cloud. Due to the force of the ablation, the plasma is propelled at low speed between two charged plates (an anode and cathode). Since the plasma is charged, the fuel effectively completes the circuit between the two plates, allowing a current to flow through the plasma. This flow of electrons generates a strong electromagnetic field which then exerts a Lorentz force on the plasma, accelerating the plasma out of the PPT exhaust at high velocity. Its mode of operation is similar to a railgun. The pulsing occurs due to the time needed to recharge the plates following each burst of fuel, and the time between each arc. The frequency of pulsing is normally very high and so it generates an almost continuous and smooth thrust. While the thrust is very low, a PPT can operate continuously for extended periods of time, yielding a large final speed.\n\nThe energy used in each pulse is stored in a capacitor. By varying the time between each capacitor discharge, the thrust and power draw of the PPT can be varied allowing versatile use of the system.\n\nThe equation for the change in velocity of a spacecraft is given by the rocket equation as follows:\n\nwhere:\n\nPPTs have much higher exhaust velocities than chemical propulsion engines, but have a much smaller fuel flow rate. From the Tsiolkovsky equation stated above, this results in a proportionally higher final velocity of the propelled craft. The exhaust velocity of a PPT is of the order of tens of km/s while conventional chemical propulsion generates thermal velocities in the range of 2–4.5 km/s. Due to this lower thermal velocity, chemical propulsion units become exponentially less effective at higher vehicle velocities, necessitating the use of electric spacecraft propulsion such as PPTs. It is therefore advantageous to use an electric propulsion system such as a PPT to generate high interplanetary speeds in the range 20–70 km/s.\n\nNASA's research PPT (flown in 2000) achieved an exhaust velocity of 13,700 m/s, generated a thrust of 860 µN, and consumed 70W of electrical power.\n\nPPTs are very robust due to their inherently simple design (relative to other electric spacecraft propulsion techniques). As an electric propulsion system, PPTs benefit from reduced fuel consumption compared to traditional chemical rockets, reducing launch mass and therefore launch costs, as well as high specific impulse improving performance.\n\nHowever, due to energy losses caused by late time ablation and rapid conductive heat transfer from the propellant to the rest of the spacecraft, propulsive efficiency (kinetic energy of exhaust / total energy used) is very low compared to other forms of electric propulsion, at around just 10%.\n\nPPTs are well-suited to uses on relatively small spacecraft with a mass of less than 100 kg (particularly CubeSats) for roles such as attitude control, station keeping, de-orbiting manoeuvres and deep space exploration. Using PPTs could double the life-span of these small satellite missions without significantly increasing complexity or cost due to the inherent simplicity and relatively low cost nature of PPTs.\n\nThe first use of PPTs was on the Soviet Zond 2 space probe on 30 November 1964.\n\nA PPT was flown by NASA in November, 2000, as a flight experiment on the Earth Observing-1 spacecraft. The thrusters successfully demonstrated the ability to perform roll control on the spacecraft and also demonstrated that the electromagnetic interference from the pulsed plasma did not affect other spacecraft systems. Pulsed Plasma Thrusters are also an avenue of research used by universities for starting experiments with electric propulsion due to the relative simplicity and lower costs involved with PPTs as opposed to other forms of electric propulsion such as Hall-effect ion thrusters.\n\n"}
{"id": "3466490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3466490", "title": "Ragpicker", "text": "Ragpicker\n\nA Rag-picker, or Chiffonnier, is term for someone who makes a living by rummaging through refuse in the streets to collect material for salvage. Scraps of cloth and paper could be turned into cardboard, broken glass could be melted down and reused, and even dead cats and dogs could be skinned to make clothes. \n\nThe rag-pickers in 19th and early 20th Century did not recycle the materials themselves; they would simply collect whatever they could find and turn it over to a \"master rag-picker\" (usually a former rag-picker) who would, in turn, sell it—generally by weight—to wealthy investors with the means to convert the materials into something more profitable. \n\nAlthough it was solely a job for the lowest of the working classes, rag-picking was considered an honest occupation, more on the level of street sweeper than of a beggar. In Paris, for instance, rag-pickers were regulated by law: their operations were restricted to certain times of night, and they were required to return any unusually valuable items to the owner or to the authorities. When Eugène Poubelle introduced the garbage can in 1884, he was criticized in the French newspapers for meddling with the rag-pickers' livelihoods. Modern sanitation and recycling programs ultimately caused the profession to decline, though it did not disappear entirely; rag and bone men were still operating in the 1970s. \n\nRag-picking is still widespread in Third World countries today, such as in Mumbai, India, where it offers the poorest in society around the rubbish and recycling areas a chance to earn a hand-to-mouth supply of money. In 2015, the Environment Minister of India declared a national award to recognise the service rendered by rag-pickers. The award, with a cash prize of Rs. 1.5 lakh, is for three best rag pickers and three associations involved in innovation of best practices. \n\nRagpicking has a positive impact on urban spaces with a weak waste management infrastructure. In India, the economic activity of ragpicking is worth about ₹3200 crore. India was also found to have a near-90% recycle rate for PET bottles, which could probably be attributed to ragpicking, given a lack of solid-waste management and under-developed waste collection and recycling culture in that country. \n\n"}
{"id": "3498744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3498744", "title": "Rubber diode", "text": "Rubber diode\n\nIn electronics, a rubber diode or V multiplier is a Bipolar junction transistor circuit that serves as a voltage reference. It consists of one transistor and two resistors, and the reference voltage across the circuit is determined by the selected resistor values and the base-to-emitter voltage (V) of the transistor. The circuit behaves as a voltage divider, but with the voltage across the base-emitter resistor determined by the forward base-emitter junction voltage.\n\nIt is commonly used in the biasing of push-pull output stages of amplifiers, where one benefit is thermal compensation: The temperature-dependent variations in the multiplier's V, can be made to match variations occurring in the V of the power transistors by mounting to the same heat sink. In this context, it is sometimes called a bias servo.\n"}
{"id": "21699137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21699137", "title": "Schreinemaker's analysis", "text": "Schreinemaker's analysis\n\nSchreinemaker's Analysis is the use of Schreinemaker's Rules to create a phase diagram.\n\nAfter applying Schreinemaker's Rules and creating a phase diagram, the resulting geometric figure will be thermodynamically accurate, although the axes will be undetermined. In order to determine the correct orientation of the geometric figure obtained through Schreinemaker's Rules, one must have additional information about the given reactions or go through an analytical treatment of the thermodynamics of the relevant phases.\n\nUnivariant lines are sometimes called reaction lines. The extension of a univariant line through the invariant point is called the metastable extension. Univariant lines are usually drawn as a solid line while their metastable extensions are drawn as a dotted line.\n\nUnivariant lines and their metastable extensions are often labeled by putting in square brackets the phase that is absent from the reaction associated with the given univariant line. In other words, since every univariant line represents a chemical equilibrium, these equilibrium curves are named with the phase (or phases) that is \"not\" involved in the equilibrium.\n\nTake an example with four phases: A, B, C, D. If a univariant line is defined by the equilibrium reaction A+D←→C, this univariant line would be labeled [B], because the phase B is absent from the reaction A+D←→C.\n\nThe Morey-Schreinemaker Coincidence Theorem states that for every univariant line that passes through the invariant point, one side is stable and the other is metastable. The invariant point marks the boundary of the stable and metastable segments of a reaction line.\n\nAn invariant point is defined as a representation of an invariant system (0 degrees of freedom by Gibbs' phase rule) by a point on a phase diagram.\nA univariant line thus represents a univariant system with 1 degree of freedom. Two univariant lines can then define a divariant area with 2 degrees of freedom.\n\nFrom the Morey-Schreinemaker Coincidence Theorem, Schreinemaker's Rules can be determined. These rules can be used in the creation of an accurate phase diagram where both axes are intensive thermodynamic variables.\n\nThere are many correct collections of \"Schreinemaker's Rules\" and the choice to use a given set of rules depends on the nature of the phase diagrams being created. Due to the phrasing of the Morey-Schreinemaker Coincidence Theorem, only one rule is essential to the Schreinemaker's Rules. This is the so-called metastable extensions rule:\n\"The metastable extension of the [phase-absent] reaction must fall in the sector in which that phase is stable in all possible assemblages.\"\n\nThis rule is geometrically sound in the construction of phase diagrams since for every metastable reaction, there must be a phase that is relatively stable. This phase must be the one which does not participate in the reaction and is therefore not consumed as a reactant or formed as a product, thus being \"stable.\"\n\nSome collections of Schreinemaker's Rules will contain the following, additional, basic statements:\n\n\nAn assemblage is defined as the phases on one side of an equilibrium reaction. An assemblage can be either a single phase or a collection of phases.\nIn the example above with the equilibrium reaction A+D←→C, (A+D) is an assemblage as well as (C) on its own.\n\n"}
{"id": "10173651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10173651", "title": "Slosh dynamics", "text": "Slosh dynamics\n\nIn fluid dynamics, slosh refers to the movement of liquid inside another object (which is, typically, also undergoing motion).\n\nStrictly speaking, the liquid must have a free surface to constitute a slosh dynamics problem, where the dynamics of the liquid can interact with the container to alter the system dynamics significantly. Important examples include propellant slosh in spacecraft tanks and rockets (especially upper stages), and the free surface effect (cargo slosh) in ships and trucks transporting liquids (for example oil and gasoline).\nHowever, it has become common to refer to liquid motion in a completely filled tank, i.e. without a free surface, as \"fuel slosh\".\n\nSuch motion is characterized by \"inertial waves\" and can be an important effect in spinning spacecraft dynamics. Extensive mathematical and empirical relationships have been derived to describe liquid slosh. These types of analyses are typically undertaken using computational fluid dynamics and finite element methods to solve the fluid-structure interaction problem, especially if the solid container is flexible. Relevant fluid dynamics non-dimensional parameters include the Bond number, the Weber number, and the Reynolds number.\n\nSlosh is an important effect for spacecraft, ships, and some aircraft. Slosh was a factor in the Falcon 1 second test flight anomaly, and has been implicated in various other spacecraft anomalies, including a near-disaster with the Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous (NEAR Shoemaker) satellite.\n\nLiquid slosh in microgravity is relevant to spacecraft, most commonly Earth-orbiting satellites, and must take account of liquid surface tension which can alter the shape (and thus the eigenvalues) of the liquid slug. Typically, a large part of the mass fraction of a satellite is liquid propellant at/near Beginning of Life (BOL), and slosh can adversely affect satellite performance in a number of ways. For example, propellant slosh can introduce uncertainty in spacecraft attitude (pointing) which is often called jitter. Similar phenomena can cause pogo oscillation and can result in structural failure of space vehicle.\n\nAnother example is problematic interaction with the spacecraft Attitude Control System (ACS), especially for spinning satellites which can suffer resonance between slosh and nutation, or adverse changes to the rotational inertia. Because of these types of risk, in the 1960s the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) extensively studied liquid slosh in spacecraft tanks, and in the 1990s NASA undertook the \"Middeck 0-Gravity Dynamics Experiment\" on the space shuttle. The European Space Agency has advanced these investigations with the launch of SLOSHSAT. Most spinning spacecraft since 1980 have been tested at the Applied Dynamics Laboratories drop tower using sub-scale models. Extensive contributions have also been made by the Southwest Research Institute, but research is widespread in academia and industry.\n\nResearch is continuing into slosh effects on in-space propellant depots. In October 2009, the Air Force and United Launch Alliance (ULA) performed an experimental on-orbit demonstration on a modified Centaur upper stage on the DMSP-18 satellite launch in order to improve \"understanding of propellant settling and slosh\", \"The light weight of DMSP-18 allowed of remaining LO and LH propellant, 28% of Centaur’s capacity\", for the on-orbit tests. The post-spacecraft mission extension ran 2.4 hours before the planned deorbit burn was executed.\n\nNASA's Launch Services Program is working on two on-going slosh fluid dynamics experiments with partners: CRYOTE and SPHERES-Slosh. ULA has additional small-scale demonstrations of cryogenic fluid management are planned with project CRYOTE in 2012-2014 leading to a ULA large-scale cryo-sat propellant depot test under the NASA flagship technology demonstrations program in 2015. SPHERES-Slosh with Florida Institute of Technology and Massachusetts Institute of Technology will examine how liquids move around inside containers in microgravity with the SPHERES Testbed on the International Space Station.\n\nLiquid sloshing strongly influences the directional dynamics and safety performance of highway tank vehicles in a highly adverse manner. Hydrodynamic forces and moments arising from liquid cargo oscillations in the tank under steering and/or braking maneuvers reduce the stability limit and controllability of partially-filled tank vehicles. Anti-slosh devices such as baffles are widely used in order to limit the adverse liquid slosh effect on directional performance and stability of the tank vehicles. Since most of the time, tankers are carrying dangerous liquid contents such as ammonia, gasoline and fuel oils; therefore stability of partially-filled liquid cargo vehicles is very important. Optimizations and sloshing reduction techniques in fuel tanks such as elliptical tank, rectangular, modified oval and generic tank shape have been performed in different filling levels using numerical, analytical and analogical analyses. Most of these studies concentrate on effects of baffles on sloshing while the influence of cross-section is completely ignored.\n\nThe Bloodhound SSC 1,000 mph project car utilizes a liquid-fuelled rocket that requires a specially-baffled oxidizer tank to prevent directional instability, rocket thrust variations and even oxidizer tank damage.\n\nSloshing or shifting cargo, water ballast, or other liquid (e.g. from leaks or fire fighting) can cause disastrous capsizing in ships due to free surface effect; this can also affect trucks and aircraft.\n\nThe effect of slosh is used to limit the bounce of a roller hockey ball. Water slosh can significantly reduce the rebound height of a ball but some amounts of liquid seem to lead to a resonance effect. Many of the balls for roller hockey commonly available contain water to reduce the bounce height.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27151338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27151338", "title": "Solar Euromed", "text": "Solar Euromed\n\nSolar Euromed is a high technology group based in France specialized in concentrated solar power technology, in activity from 2007 to 2016.\n\nThe company provides proprietary solar thermal power systems which produce heat for power generation and industrial applications with the built-in ability to store energy and supply electricity on demand, even after sunset. Solar Euromed's solar thermal technology is based on the concept of direct steam generation and linear Fresnel optics and was developed together with the French National Centre for Scientific Research and the French Atomic Energy and Alternative Energies Commission.\n\nSince its inception, Solar Euromed has been an active promoter of CSP technology in Europe and has built a recognized expertise in this emerging field:\n\n\nCSP technologies concentrate energy from the sun’s rays to heat a fluid to high temperatures. This heat is transformed into mechanical energy and then into electricity. Using the sun as a free source of energy, structures made out of metal and glass and completely greenhouse gas (GHG) emission-free, Concentrated Solar Power is a sustainable and environmentally friendly solution to produce a clean and renewable energy.\n\nCSP is a proven technology and the first plants began operating in California in the 80’s, spurred by federal and state tax incentives and mandatory long-term power purchase contracts. A drop in fossil fuel prices then led the federal and state governments to dismantle the policy framework that had supported the advancement of CSP. In 2006, the market re-emerged in Spain and the United States, supported by changes in governmental policies favorable to renewable energies – and solar in particular. CSP uses renewable solar resource to generate electricity while producing no GHG emissions (SO, CO) with large scale power capacities. CSP plants can be combined with thermal storage capacity so as to avoid intermittency due to clouds, or to provide the grid with electricity in the evening, during peak hours, and throughout the night. CSP plants can also provide power generation during off-solar hours thanks to hybridization either with gas or biomass. While the bulk of CSP electricity will come from large, on-grid power plants, these technologies also show significant potential for supplying other specific needs such as water desalination, off-grid power, combined heat and power generation, process heat, oil & gas pumping, and solar fuels generation.\n\nSolar Euromed's technology use long and narrow segments of mirror that pivot to reflect the sunlight onto a fixed absorber tube located at the common focal line of the reflectors. A secondary reflector enables to have a higher heat flux and homogeneous heating of the absorber tube which can generate temperatures up to 450 °C. Solar Euromed's solutions include a large scale assembly of Fresnel reflector modules working with direct steam generation at high temperature, a thermal storage capacity, a scheme of assembly enabling farming under the reflectors due to the high positioning of the structures, and the use of recyclable materials limiting waste during the dismantling and the environmental impact.\n\nAdvantages of the technology\n\nFresnel technology has CSP’s best land-to-electricity ratio due to a compact design and the usability of space below support structures. This technology is also considered to be cheaper to implement and allows a strong construction modularity. Fresnel system requires flat or less-shaped mirrors and facilitates Direct Steam Generation, eliminating the need for costly heat transfer fluids and heat exchangers. Moreover, operations and maintenance are easy, hence, the associated costs are moderate.\n\nPilot Plant\n\nIn partnership with two leading French R&D centers (CNRS and CEA), Solar Euromed has implemented this landmark technology development into a fully instrumented MW-size pilot plant called Augustin Fresnel 1 located in the French Pyreneans.\n\nLocated at Ghisonaccia in Corsica, Alba Nova 1 is Solar Euromed's CSP demonstration plant for which a construction permit was already secured for a net power output of 12 MW producing electricity equivalent of the consumption of 10 000 households, thus serving as a bridge between the pilot phase and the anticipated deployment in the MENA region. It provides an optimized integration of agricultural activities under the supporting structures and a state-of-the art eco-friendly overall design. It is the first CSP project to be authorized in France since more than 30 years and serves as a reference for the energy conversion and economic performance of Solar Euromed’s Fresnel proprietary technology. Due to its insularity, Corsica has specific energetic constraints to operate with limited connections to an external network, protection of environment, fire, and has to manage the downward looking lifecycle of two fossil-powered thermal power plants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20759650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20759650", "title": "Solar bonds", "text": "Solar bonds\n\nSolar bonds are municipal revenue bonds issued to provide low-interest financing for lower-cost accelerated development of local renewable energy technologies such as solar power. \nThe first solar bond authority was drafted by Paul Douglas Fenn, creator of Community Choice Aggregation, and approved by San Francisco, California voters in 2001. Under \"solar neighborhoods\" approach, municipal governments would enter into multi-decade community-wide power purchase agreements with competitive suppliers and issue solar bonds, or \"H Bonds\", to finance the new supplier's rollout of local renewable energy and energy efficiency measures, offering municipal bond financing to residents and businesses, the debt for which would be repaid on monthly electric bills - an approach that has come to be called \"on-bill financing.\" \n\nThe City of San Francisco enshrined solar bonds in its Community Choice Aggregation program in 2004 when it adopted an ordinance combining the City's authority to procure power for its residents and businesses with its authority to issue revenue bonds under the solar bond authority. Fenn drafted the ordinance (86-04, 2004) for sponsoring supervisor Tom Ammiano, who had also sponsored placing the solar bond authority on the 2001 ballot, and Fenns' company, Local Power Inc., went on to draft a 2007 implementation plan and 2013 business model to implement the $1 billion project. Local Power also contributed substantially to Sonoma county's Sonoma Clean Power program which has a similar structure.\n\nApart from creating a new generation of Community Choice Aggregations, San Francisco's solar bond authority spawned the subsequent appearance of both public and private financing of customer-owned solar and energy efficiency measures, including PACE financing and the solar power purchase agreement or PPA, transforming the photovoltaics industry in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "57255362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57255362", "title": "Thermal boundary layer thickness and shape", "text": "Thermal boundary layer thickness and shape\n\nThis page describes some parameters used to characterize the properties of the thermal boundary layer formed by a heated (or cooled) fluid moving along a heated (or cooled) wall. In many ways, the thermal boundary layer description parallels the velocity (momentum) boundary layer description first conceptualized by Ludwig Prandtl. Consider a fluid of uniform temperature formula_1 and velocity formula_2 impinging onto a stationary plate uniformly heated to a temperature formula_3. Assume the flow and the plate are semi-infinite in the positive/negative direction perpendicular to the formula_4 plane. As the fluid flows along the wall, the fluid at the wall surface satisfies a no-slip boundary condition and has zero velocity, but as you move away from the wall, the velocity of the flow asymptotically approaches the free stream velocity formula_5. The temperature at the solid wall is formula_3 and gradually changes to formula_1 as one moves toward the free stream of the fluid. It is impossible to define a sharp point at which the thermal boundary layer fluid or the velocity boundary layer fluid becomes the free stream, yet these layers have a well-defined characteristic thickness given by formula_8 and formula_9. The parameters below provide a useful definition of this characteristic, measurable thickness for the thermal boundary layer. Also included in this boundary layer description are some parameters useful in describing the shape of the thermal boundary layer.\n\nThe thermal boundary layer thickness, formula_8, is the distance across a boundary layer from the wall to a point where the flow temperature has essentially reached the 'free stream' temperature, formula_11. This distance is defined normal to the wall in the formula_12-direction. The thermal boundary layer thickness is customarily defined as the point in the boundary layer, formula_13, where the temperature formula_14 reaches 99% of the free stream value formula_11:\nat a position formula_19 along the wall. In a real fluid, this quantity can be estimated by measuring the temperature profile at a position formula_20 along the wall. The temperature profile is the temperature as a function of formula_12 at a fixed formula_19 position.\n\nFor laminar flow over a flat plate a zero incidence, the thermal boundary layer thickness is given by:\n\nwhere\n\nFor turbulent flow over a flat plate, the thickness of the thermal boundary layer that is formed is not determined by thermal diffusion, but instead, it is random fluctuations in the outer region of the boundary layer of the fluid that is the driving force determining thermal boundary layer thickness. Thus the thermal boundary layer thickness for turbulent flow does not depend on the Prandtl number but instead on the Reynolds number. Hence, the turbulent thermal boundary layer thickness is given approximately by the turbulent velocity boundary layer thickness expression given by:\n\nwhere\n\nThis turbulent boundary layer thickness formula assumes 1) the flow is turbulent right from the start of the boundary layer and 2) the turbulent boundary layer behaves in a geometrically similar manner (i.e. the velocity profiles are geometrically similar along the flow in the x-direction, differing only by stretching factors in formula_12 and formula_33). Neither one of these assumptions is true for the general turbulent boundary layer case so care must be exercised in applying this formula.\n\nThe thermal displacement thickness, formula_34 may be thought of in terms of the difference between a real fluid and a hypothetical fluid with thermal diffusion turned off but with velocity formula_5 and temperature formula_11. With no thermal diffusion, the temperature drop is abrupt. The thermal displacement thickness is the distance by which the hypothetical fluid surface would have to be moved in the formula_12-direction to give the same integrated temperature as occurs between the wall and the reference plane at formula_8 in the real fluid. It is a direct analog to the velocity displacement thickness which is often described in terms of an equivalent shift of a hypothetical inviscid fluid (see Schlichting for velocity displacement thickness).\n\nThe definition of the thermal displacement thickness for incompressible flow is based on the integral of the reduced temperature:\n\nwhere the dimensionless temperature is formula_40. In a wind tunnel, the velocity and temperature profiles are obtained by measuring the velocity and temperature at many discrete formula_12-values at a fixed formula_19-position. The thermal displacement thickness can then be estimated by numerically integrating the scaled temperature profile.\nA relatively new method for describing the thickness and shape of the thermal boundary layer utilizes the moment method commonly used to describe a random variable's probability distribution. The moment method was developed from the observation that the plot of the second derivative of the thermal profile for laminar flow over a plate looks very much like a Gaussian distribution curve. It is straightforward to cast the properly scaled thermal profile into a suitable integral kernel.\n\nThe thermal profile central moments are defined as:\nwhere the mean location, formula_44, is given by: \n\nThere are some advantages to also include descriptions of moments of the boundary layer profile derivatives with respect to the height above the wall. Consider the first derivative temperature profile central moments given by:\nwhere the mean location is the thermal displacement thickness formula_34.\n\nFinally the second derivative temperature profile central moments are given by:\nwhere the mean location, formula_49, is given by:\nWith the moments and the thermal mean location defined, the boundary layer thickness and shape can be described in terms of the thermal boundary layer width (variance), thermal skewnesses, and thermal excess (excess kurtosis). For the Pohlhausen solution for laminar flow on a heated flat plate, it is found that thermal boundary layer thickness defined as formula_51 where formula_52, tracks the 99% thickness very well. \n\nFor laminar flow, the three different moment cases all give similar values for the thermal boundary layer thickness. For turbulent flow, the thermal boundary layer can be divided into a region near the wall where thermal diffusion is important and an outer region where thermal diffusion effects are mostly absent. Taking a cue from the boundary layer energy balance equation, the second derivative boundary layer moments, formula_53 track the thickness and shape of that portion of the thermal boundary layer where thermal diffusivity formula_54 is significant. Hence the moment method makes it possible to track and quantify the region where thermal diffusivity is important using formula_53 moments whereas the overall thermal boundary layer is tracked using formula_56 and formula_57 moments.\n\nCalculation of the derivative moments without the need to take derivatives is simplified by using integration by parts to reduce the moments to simply integrals based on the thermal displacement thickness kernel:\nThis means that the second derivative skewness, for example, can be calculated as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25648440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25648440", "title": "Waterloo Wind Farm", "text": "Waterloo Wind Farm\n\nWaterloo wind farm is based east of Manoora, South Australia. It is the largest wind farm operated by EnergyAustralia.\n\nThe site is positioned on a rocky ridge on privately owned property at Waterloo. The 111 megawatt wind farm spreads across five acres of land and cost about $350 million, it began construction in November, 2008 and has been operational since October 2010.\n\nFor about two months in 2013, the site was monitored by the Environmental Protection Authority. The wind farm’s infrasound and low-frequency noise were both examined. Acoustics firm Resonate conducted noise and meteorological monitoring in the area.\n\nWaterloo wind farm has 37 Vestas V90-3MW turbines, each 80 metres high, with each turbine blade 44 metres long and weighing about 8 tonnes. The tower sections weigh approximately 90 tonnes in total with the tower and blades combined weighing 125 tonnes. On average the blades turn at 16.2 rpm. There are four levels in a turbine and it takes about five minutes to get to the top.\n\nEach wind turbine produces on average 24 megawatt hours of power each day. On a windy day three wind turbines can power the whole of Clare and the whole wind farm can power up to 163,000 homes or 5 to 10% of South Australia.\n\nThe wind farm is planned to be upgraded with six new turbines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3954819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3954819", "title": "Whittle Shortline", "text": "Whittle Shortline\n\nWhittle Shortline is a toy company owned and operated in the United States.\n\nDuring the mid-1990s, former US Air Force pilot Mike Whitworth received a compound mitre saw as a gift from his wife, ostensibly for doing home improvement projects.\n\nThe saw sat unused for almost two years, when Whitworth got the inspiration to produce toy trains for friends and family. By 1997, word of his craftsmanship had reached local retailers, who in turn asked that he make the wooden trains on a professional basis.\n\nIn 1999 the production moved from the family home some miles to the historic building of the Frisco Hotel in Valley Park, a suburb of St. Louis. By 2005 most of the production was moved north to the city of Louisiana, Missouri.\n\nIn the recent wake of the recalls of many Chinese-made consumer goods (including toys), Whittle Shortline have seen a heightening of interest in their products.\n\nWooden toy trains and accessories are their specialty. These are non-motorized, and suitable for children. The cars and locomotives couple together using small magnets, and are easy to manipulate. Whittle Shortline differ from their peers in that most of their trains are patterned from prototype North American railroad equipment. The company proudly state their products as being 'Made in the USA'.\n\nThe high quality woods used make Whittle Shortline toys more expensive than many other brands that use the same type of track. However, they are compatible with brands such as BRIO and Thomas the Tank Engine.\n\nAside from their standard line of wooden trains, Whittle Shortline also offer special versions of their toys.\n\nEach year since 2002, the company has offered a freight car decorated in a colorful holiday theme aimed at collectors. Typically featuring a boxcar, although the 2002 and 2005 release saw a gift-adorned flatcar and hot cocoa-themed tanker car, respectively.\n\nIn 2006, the company released a wooden toy train line based upon The Little Engine That Could, as a domestic alternative to Thomas the Tank Engine.\n\nWhittle Shortline introduced in 2007 a line of 'Mega Trains'. These featured greatly enlarged locomotives and rolling stock, while retaining compatibility with standard wooden track.\n"}
{"id": "29978039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29978039", "title": "Wyandot Solar Facility", "text": "Wyandot Solar Facility\n\nThe 12 megawatt (MW) Wyandot Solar Facility is a solar photovoltaic power plant completed in 2010, located in Salem Township, Wyandot County, Ohio. This system uses 159,200 panels spread over .\n\nJuwi Solar developed the Wyandot Solar Facility and Vaughn Industries, based in Wyandot County, was the primary construction contractor. Most of the construction jobs created by the project went to Ohio residents. First Solar supplied the solar panels from their manufacturing plant in Perrysburg, Ohio.\n\nOn August 24, 2010, Ohio Governor Ted Strickland joined The Public Service Enterprise Group, Ohio State University President Dr. E. Gordon Gee, and other local leaders to open the solar facility.\n\n"}
