{"id": "56044982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56044982", "title": "1in6", "text": "1in6\n\n1in6 is a national nonprofit organization that provides support and information to male survivors of sexual abuse and assault, as well as their loved ones and service providers.\n\nIn January 2007, 1in6 was founded by Steve LePore and a group of individuals including Jim Hopper, PhD, Greg LeMond, and David Lisak, PhD.\n\nThe organization partners with RAINN to provide a free and anonymous 24/7 helpline, as well as confidential weekly online support groups for male survivors. In 2016, nearly 400,000 people visited the 1in6 website. The Bristlecone Project, created by David Lisak, PhD, is 1in6’s multimedia awareness campaign that features portraits and stories of a community of male survivors.\n\nBased in Los Angeles, the organization conducts trainings for professionals, organizations, and military branches around the world, including the US Navy, US Army, US Air Force, and the US Marine Corps. 1in6 also provides technical support for various organizations including RAINN, Pennsylvania Coalition Against Rape, ECPAT International, National Sexual Violence Resource Center, Your Safe Haven, Centre County Women’s Resource Center, Men Can Stop Rape, Victim Services Incorporated, Family Services of Blair County, and all branches of the United States Military at bases around the world.\n\nIn 2016, 1in6 partnered with Viacom, NO MORE, and The Joyful Heart Foundation (founded by Mariska Hargitay) to produce public service announcements featuring celebrities and highlighting the prevalence of sexual trauma among males. On March 2, 2016, the broadcast PSAs debuted on Viacom’s networks and in Times Square, during which the PSAs were visible to approximately 21 million people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "587111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=587111", "title": "Akbayan", "text": "Akbayan\n\nThe Akbayan Citizens' Action Party is a democratic socialist and progressive political party in the Philippines. Akbayan is noted to be a leading member of the Democratic Left community in the Philippines, which consists of moderate leftist groups who are not affiliated with the more extremist Communist Party of the Philippines.\n\nThe party was founded by Joel Rocamora in the 1990's, after leaving the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) over ideological differences with its founder and leader, Jose Maria Sison. The CPP leader maintained Marxist-Leninist-Maoist principles, which some members, dubbed \"rejectionists\" as opposed to CPP's \"reaffirmists\", disagreed with.\n\nAkbayan has been critical of abuses committed by some members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) against fellow activists. It has also been critical of the Communist Party of the Philippines – National Democratic Front – New People's Army's (CPP-NDF-NPA) actions in the countryside especially against peasant groups and communities against the Maoist group's extortion activities. Due to its stance against right-wing extremism (from some elements of the AFP) and from the Extreme Left) (CPP-NPA-NDF), Akbayan has been a target by both political groups. \n\nDuring the administration of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, Akbayan was among the opposition groups which was severely repressed by the government. It was also during this time that because of government intimidation that Akbayan suffered its lowest number of votes in 2007 with just well over 400,000 votes.\n\nIn 2009, Akbayan supported the presidential candidacy of then Senator Benigno Simeon Aquino III. Fueled by the popular discontent with the outgoing administration of former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, Aquino won the presidency by a huge margin. This was also the first time that Akbayan was able to breach the 1 million vote mark, its best performance so far. The votes it garnered was 200,000 votes more than the last time it secured three seats in the House of Representatives. However, it failed to secure three seats owing to a Supreme Court decision which ensured that only the leading partylist (Ako Bicol at that time) in the election would secure three seats.\nAkbayan has been noted to oppose the increased incursions of the People's Republic of China (PRC) naval and coast guard vessels into Philippine territorial waters and within the country's 200-nautical mile Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ).\n\nIn 2016, they allied themselves to LP and Magdalo Group, supporting Mar Roxas and Leni Robredo's campaign, criticizing other candidates. After the elections, they joined the Magnificent 7, a group of hardcore Liberal Party members and Magdalo members Gary Alejano. They became critical of several issues, like the Philippine Drug War and TRAIN Law.\n\n\nAkbayan is only one of two parties (the other is Butil) to win seats in all party list elections in the Philippines. Furthermore, Akbayan is the only party to surpass the 2% election threshold in all elections, until the 2016 election where they fell short by 0.12%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1929144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1929144", "title": "Association of Academies of the Spanish Language", "text": "Association of Academies of the Spanish Language\n\nThe Association of Academies of the Spanish Language (, ASALE) is an entity whose end is to work for the unity, integrity, and growth of the Spanish language. It was created in Mexico in 1951 and represents the union of all the separate academies in the Spanish-speaking world. The association publishes reference works on the Spanish language and commemorative editions of Hispanic literature, among other publications.\n\nThrough the initiative of then-president of Mexico Miguel Alemán Valdés, the first congress of academies convened with the purpose of maintaining the integrity of and fostering the further growth of Spanish. The meeting was held from 23 April to 6 May 1951 and resulted in the creation of the association and its permanent commission. The Royal Spanish Academy (Spanish: or ) was not present at the initial meeting but participated in the permanent commission. Ever since the second congress convened in 1956, the has been a regular participant.\n\nIn 2000 the association organised the School of Hispanic Lexicography and the Carolina Foundation to promote Spanish lexicography, and together with the , the association earned the Prince of Asturias Award for peace.\n\nAn academy for Equatorial Guinea was created in 2013 and joined the association in 2016.\n\nThe collaboration between and the other academies was expressed in the coauthorship, since the 22nd edition published in 2001, of the Dictionary of the Spanish Language (Spanish: ), and the 1999 edition of the Orthography (Spanish: ) was considered a true pan-Hispanic work. Joint projects include the editing of the Grammar (Spanish: ) and the compilation of the Dictionary of Americanisms (Spanish: ).\n\nThe association convenes every four years, led by a permanent commission composed of a president (Darío Villanueva as of October 2017), secretary general (Francisco Javier Pérez as of October 2017), treasurer, and at least two board members drawn from the associated academies, whose nomination rotate annually. During the Third Congress of Academies, held in Bogotá, Colombia, in 1960, an agreement was reached whereby the governments of countries with a member in the association would be obliged to provide financial support to their respective academies and the greater association.\n\nAlthough Israelis mainly speak Hebrew, Arabic, English, and Russian, an ASALE conference on Judaeo-Spanish held in 2015 lead to plans for the creation of an Israeli branch. A group of academics was founded by ASALE in 2018 and submitted to the government of Israel for recognition. The National Academia of Judaeo-Spanish in Israel will then have the ability to petition to join as a full member, likely in 2019. There are no plans for Belize, Gibraltar, or Andorra to have their own academies, despite each having a majority Spanish-speaking population either as a first or second language. There is also a substantial Spanish population in Brazil and Western Sahara.\n\n"}
{"id": "41166732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41166732", "title": "Ben Emmerson", "text": "Ben Emmerson\n\nBen Emmerson, QC (born 10 August 1963) is a British lawyer, specialising in European human rights law, public international law and international criminal law. He was a founder member of Matrix Chambers and has 25 years’ experience litigating before international courts and tribunals including the International Court of Justice, the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Justice, the International Criminal Court and the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. He helped draft the 1998 Human Rights Act introduced by Tony Blair. Within the UK he is a deputy High Court Judge, a Master of the Bench of Middle Temple and an Honorary Fellow of Mansfield College, Oxford.\n\nIn 2014 he was appointed Counsel for the Independent Panel Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse in England and Wales, but was suspended from duty and then resigned in September 2016. In December 2016, Mr. Emmerson was cleared of wrong-doing and IICSA has formally launched a separate, independent examination of the way Emmerson’s resignation was handled. It may now ask why Emmerson was not asked about the now discredited allegation at the time so that he could respond. The human rights campaigner Helena Kennedy, who has worked with Emmerson, welcomed the independent inquiry’s finding that dismissed the allegations of sexual misconduct. \"I have known Ben for many, many years,\" Lady Kennedy said. \"He's a feminist. He lives as he speaks. He had discussed this matter with me. He's not someone who takes liberties with people. I shared his shock when a public allegation was made. I'm satisfied that it was ill-founded.\"\n\nBorn in Kent, his father Brian Emmerson was finance director of the Stock Exchange in London. He attended Douai School and Bristol University, and was called to the bar in 1986. Until 1999 Emmerson was a member of Doughty Street Chambers, but in February 2000 he left to join the new Matrix Chambers which specialises in human rights. In April 2000 he was appointed Queen's Counsel.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Emmerson represented the Bolton 7, a group of men who had engaged in consensual group sex but were prosecuted for gross indecency and buggery under the Sexual Offences Act 1967. At the time, it was illegal for men to have sex with each other if more than two men were present, since it was deemed to be a public act; however, group sex was legal for heterosexuals and lesbians. Emmerson argued that the prosecution violated the European Convention on Human Rights and that, although it had not been incorporated into English law at the time, the judge was obliged to consider it.\n\nIn 1999 he successfully represented at the ECHR two of four homosexual members of the British Armed Forces who had been dismissed for their sexual orientation. The UK government was ordered to pay compensation and decided to put on hold all other investigations into homosexuals that it was conducting. \"The Guardian\" called it an \"historic decision\", while David Pannick QC called it \"a welcome victory for reason over pure prejudice\".\n\nIn 2012, Emmerson represented a man at appeal after he was convicted of sending \"a message of a menacing character\" under the Communications Act 2003, for posting a joke on Twitter which was interpreted as a threat to blow up an airport. Emmerson argued that the response had been disproportionate, that common sense was required \"to avoid the law ending up looking silly\" and that the man lacked the \"mens rea\" (intent) to be menacing.\n\nEmmerson is currently the British judge on the Residual Mechanism of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. \nHe has previously acted as Special Adviser to the Prosecutor at the International Criminal Court and Special Adviser to the international judges of the UN backed Khmer Rouge Tribunal in Cambodia.\nIn June 2011 he was elected by the UN Human Rights Council as UN Special Rapporteur on Counter Terrorism and Human Rights. In this capacity he reports annually to the UN General Assembly, the UN Human Rights Council and relevant entities established by the Security Council. He also conducts country visits and reports, and provides technical and other advice to states.\n\nIn May 2013 Emmerson was involved in a special investigation for the UN General Assembly on drone warfare and targeted killings. According to Emmerson' report, Israel, as well as US, have developed various types of fully or semi-autonomous weapons. In the report they are called “lethal autonomous robotics” or LARs for short. The report states: “Decisions over life and death in armed conflict may require compassion and intuition. Humans — while they are fallible — at least might possess these qualities, whereas robots definitely do not.” In his report, Emmerson notes the arguments of robot proponents that death-dealing autonomous weapons “will not be susceptible to some of the human shortcomings that may undermine the protection of life and typically they would not act out of revenge, panic, anger, spite, prejudice or fear.\" However, he report also states that robots could cause intentional suffering on civilian populations, for example through torture.”\n\nIn 2014, Emmerson was appointed Counsel for the Independent Panel Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse in England and Wales. On 28 September 2016, he was suspended from duty. The inquiry said it had \"become very concerned about aspects\" of his leadership of his team. The following day, Emmerson resigned from the position, saying that \"it is now time for someone else to take the helm\" and denying that his resignation was due to differences of opinion with the Inquiry's chair, Alexis Jay. It later emerged that he was forced to resign over an allegation of sexual assault was made against him, but an enquiry by a senior judge ruled that the allegation was unfounded.\n\nEmmerson, special investigator for the United Nations Human Rights Council, stated that U.S. drone strikes may have violated international humanitarian law. \n\nIn July 2017 Emmerson visited Sri Lanka, a country that was being criticised by the United Nations for slow progress in addressing war crimes and past human rights abuses. Emmerson commented that the international community was running out of patience.\n\nEmmerson has accused Saudi Arabia of human rights violations including detaining and torturing free speech activists. Emmerson was denied access to Raif Badawi and other Saudi citizens he claimed had been \"imprisoned for the exercise of the right to freedom of speech and opinion.\" \n\nEmmerson has written and lectured widely on the European Convention on Human Rights and the Human Rights Act 1998. He was formerly the editor of the \"European Human Rights Law Review\" and is co-author, with Professor Andrew Ashworth QC of the leading text on the application of the Convention in criminal cases. Since 1995 he has been human rights editor of \"Archbold Criminal Pleading, Evidence and Practice\", the criminal practitioner's bible.\n\nIn 1999, \"The Lawyer\" listed Emmerson as one of the top five criminal barristers in the UK. He was described as \"a goliath in the area of human rights law\" and \"knowing the law, not just silver-tongued\" The same year he was a winner at the Liberty Human Rights awards. In 2002, \"The Observer\" described Emmerson as one of the \"most dynamic group of lawyers working in Britain today\". Edward Fitzgerald said that he was \"an intense and extremely forceful advocate\".\n\nIn 2015 Emmerson represented Marina Litvinenko, wife of Russian ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, at the inquiry into his death.\nAlexander Litvinenko is a former Russian spy whose political fallout and subsequent poisoning death unfolded in October 2000 when he fled to the UK in breach of Russian court order preventing him from leaving the country. Upon arrival, Litvinenko told police at Heathrow airport “I am a KGB officer and I am asking for political asylum”, the inquiry into his murder heard. He arranged for his family’s escape after the Russian security service threatened to kill his wife and child. At the completion of inquiry Emmerson commented that Russian state responsibility for Litvinenko's death had been proven \"beyond reasonable doubt\".\n\nIn 2003, Emmerson represented Islamist cleric Abu Qatada, In 2003, along with a number of other Belmarsh inmates, at a hearing of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission, arguing that they should not be detained without charge or trial. Emmerson stated that this has been routinely affirmed by the last UN special rapporteur on human rights while countering terrorism, amid claims that only emergency, derogations, suspension, or permanent restrictions could help the fight against terrorism.\nQatada was arrested in 1993 over false documents while applying for asylum in United Kingdom.\n\nStarting in 2013 Emmerson represented former Guantanamo Bay detainee Moazzam Begg, who was imprisoned for 6 months after a string of terrorist charges linked to the civil war in Syria were brought against him. Begg, 45-year-old British citizen from Birmingham, had been in custody for seven months awaiting trial on charges connected to the civil war in Syria, including an allegation he attended a terrorism training camp there. He was subsequently released from prison in 2014 after CPS dropped the case just five days before his trial.\n\nIn 2018 Emmerson took the case of Catalan pro-independence leader Carles Puigdemont to the UN. Basic argument is that Government of Spain has violated his right to participate in political life through a “repressive” legal crackdown.\n\nIn 2016 Emmerson received Barrister of the Year award for his work at the heart of two high-profile cases involving foreign governments. He represented ex-Russian spy Alexander Litvenenko’s family in one of the most high-profile court cases in British history and acted for the Ministry of Justice in Georgia before the European Court of Human Rights in connection with the second inter-state case brought by Georgia against the Russian Federation in relation to the alleged attacks against civilians and the property in Abkhazia and South Ossetia.\n\n"}
{"id": "19456845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19456845", "title": "Brian Taylor (journalist)", "text": "Brian Taylor (journalist)\n\nBrian Taylor (born 9 January 1955 in Dundee) is the political editor for BBC Scotland. Taylor – who joined the BBC in 1985 – originally co-presented \"Left, Right and Centre\" and was political correspondent prior to his current role.\nTaylor has covered politics on television since the United Kingdom general election, 1979.\n\nIn 2009, he presented \"Holyrood and the Search for Scotland's Soul\", a documentary by \"BBC Scotland Investigates\" to mark the 10th anniversary of the devolved Scottish Parliament.\n\nTaylor attended the independent High School of Dundee and graduated from the University of St Andrews in 1977 with an MA (Hons) degree in English. Following his graduation, Taylor was employed as a journalist by the Aberdeen-based Press & Journal before a six-year spell as a lobby correspondent at Westminster.\n\nTaylor joined the BBC in 1985, co-presenting the BBC Scotland political programme \"Left, Right and Centre\" with Kirsty Wark, and presenting \"Good Morning Scotland\". Following this, he was appointed political correspondent and then political editor.\n\nTaylor has written two books on Scotland's new Parliament: \"The Scottish Parliament\" (Polygon, Edinburgh University Press, 1999), an account of the road to devolution and its consequences; and \"Scotland's Parliament: Triumph and Disaster\" (Edinburgh University Press, November 2002), analysing the early years of the new Parliament.\n\nTaylor is married with two sons.\n\nTaylor is a keen Dundee United football supporter and attends games regularly. He has presented the club's inaugural Hall of Fame dinner on a number of occasions.\n\nHe was awarded an honorary degree by Abertay University in 2010. \n\nTaylor joined Twitter in 2012 and has yet to tweet anything. His lack of tweets has made him a Twitter icon who people regularly joke has said something outrageous then deleted it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2095658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095658", "title": "Caledonian Union", "text": "Caledonian Union\n\nThe Caledonian Union (, UC) is a pro-independence political party in New Caledonia. In the latest legislative elections of May 10, 2009, the party won around 11.65% of the popular vote, and 9 out of 54 seats in the Territorial Congress.\n\nThe Caledonian Union was born as a cross-community (multi-ethnic) autonomist party led by Maurice Lenormand, who was the island's sole representative in the French National Assembly. There he sat with the Popular Republican Movement, or MRP, and other Christian democratic parties in France.\n\nThe party's first significant success was on February 8, 1953 with the election of 15 members of the Caledonian Union to the 25 seats General Council.\n\nHowever, the UC opposed to the arrival of Gaullist centralism in France, which undid most of the autonomist reforms of the French Fourth Republic (the Defferre laws). The UC grew more and more radical, and started flirting with independence, which eventually led to an outflow of Caldoches into new loyalist parties, such as the Rally for Caledonia in the Republic. Combined with corruption scandals, this weakened the party considerably.\n\nIn 1977 in Bourail, the UC adopted a nationalist platform, supported by Jean-Marie Tjibaou (and the rare European nationalists, such as Maurice Lenormand and Pierre Declercq). In 1979, the UC joined with the Party of Kanak Liberation (FLNKS) and other parties to form the Nationalist Front, which became the Kanak and Socialist National Liberation Front (FLNKS) in 1984.\n\nThe UC was the largest faction in the FLNKS, led by Tjibaou. It was largely moderate, as opposed to the more radical Palika. Tjibaou was killed in 1989 by an extremist Kanak nationalist. In 2001, Roch Wamytan, the moderate leader of the UC, lost an election to Pascal Naouna, a radical. The UC has since broken with Palika within the FLNKS, which has no unitary president and is very divided. Charles Pidjot, Roch Pidjot's nephew, replaced Naouna in 2007. He died in 2012 and was then replaced himself by Daniel Goa\n\nIn the 2009 provincial elections, the party won 9 seats in the Congress of New Caledonia and around 11.65% of the vote. However, in the South Province, the UC ran on a common slate with Palika and won one of the four seats won by that list.\n\nThe UC controls the provincial presidency of the Loyalty Islands.\n\nThe UC favour the concept of independence-association similar to the Marshall Islands. However, the UC has taken a radical stance in favour of strict adherence to the terms of the Nouméa Accord, no talks with the loyalists. For example, the UC boycotted the visit of Jacques Chirac to the island in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "8025677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8025677", "title": "Catholic Democrats", "text": "Catholic Democrats\n\nCatholic Democrats is an American not-for-profit organization of Catholics, based in Boston, United States. The Catholic Democrats have more than 20,000 members in all 50 American states and Puerto Rico. It claims no authorization from the Catholic Church, or any Catholic Bishop, Catholic diocese, candidate or candidate committee.\n\nThe organization was founded in response to the 2004 presidential election, which, in the view of the group, had witnessed unprecedented attempts to bend Catholic Social Teaching to accommodate policies which are in conflict with the teaching and values of the Church. It characterizes its membership as people who share an aversion to the kind of abuses of U.S. military power that led to the Iraq War, along with \"the exploitation of social issues to advance the economic interests of a few, and the misuse of our Catholic faith for political gain.\"\n\nThe group was angered as well by what it perceived as manipulation of Church teaching to the advantage of conservative and Republican interests: \"conservatives have increasingly used Catholic language and Catholic congregations to advance their economic agenda and political interests.\" particularly its insistence on “a consistent moral framework anchored in the scriptures and expressed in the teachings of the Church.” The group specifies the bishops' call for a new commitment to advancing public policies that work in the interest of the common good.\n\nCatholic Democrats support Pope Francis's stances on the central issues within Catholic social teaching (\"war, poverty, unintended pregnancy, preventable illness, the death penalty, instability of the family, and supporting the dialogue balancing medical advances and the dignity of the individual\") which it feels that the Republican Party neglects in favor of others, notably abortion, euthanasia and homosexuality. The group's website features the week's gospel readings, news stories and commentary, papal encyclicals and resources for adoption.\n\nDuring the 2008 presidential election, the organization launched the Catholics for Obama Web site, which included a petition of endorsement for Catholics to sign in support of Democratic Party nominee Barack Obama's candidacy, the Catholic questions and answers on abortion, and a welcome by Catholic actor Martin Sheen. Additionally, the Web site included links to the book, written by Catholic Democrats President Patrick Whelan with a preface by Victoria Reggie Kennedy, entitled \"The Catholic Case for Obama.\" The group helped articulate a new approach to the abortion problem, also championed by the Obama Campaign, that focused on reduction strategies and emphasized finding common ground solutions.\n\nIn 2009 the group applauded efforts by the Obama Administration to reach out to Catholics, particularly in a major policy address President Obama made at Georgetown University on April 14, 2009, and in his commencement address on May 17, 2009 at the University of Notre Dame. Catholic Democrats later launched a national Letter of Support for President Obama, Notre Dame, and Catholic higher education that was signed by thousands of Catholics across the country. The group also launched the website, Catholics for Notre Dame, which housed the statement of support, a video called Catholic in America, and a tool for individuals to send letters to the editor. They helped organize a reunion for the Catholic priests and community organizers who hired President Obama to work in a Catholic church rectory on the South Side of Chicago in 1985. They also worked with local Democratic officials in South Bend, Indiana the weekend of the Notre Dame Commencement to organize a welcome rally for President Obama and a food drive, in the spirit of national service struck at the Inauguration.\n\nIn the summer of 2009, Catholic Democrats launched the website, \"Pope Greets Hope\" to celebrate President Obama's first meeting with Pope Benedict XVI on July 11, 2009. Dr. Patrick Whelan, president of Catholic Democrats, blogged from the Vatican during the meeting, which followed the release of the papal encyclical \"Caritas in Veritate\" and the 35th G8 summit in L'Aquila, Italy, earlier in the week.\nIn August 2009, the organization paid tribute to the late U.S. Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who had been a great inspiration to the founders of the group. The group has more recently paid tribute to Sargent Shriver, a founder of the Peace Corps, and Fr. Thomas Kaminski, a Chicago priest who was president of the community development organization that hired Barack Obama in 1985.\n\nIn September 2009, the leadership of Catholic Democrats met with the White House Domestic Policy Council in an effort to find creative and constructive solutions to decreasing the number of abortions in the United States.\n\nIn 2010, Catholic Democrats president Dr. Patrick Whelan published a study that appeared in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" and asserted that the number of abortions in Massachusetts decreased after the 2006 passage of universal health care there. Additionally, national director Steve Krueger wrote a policy paper on health care and abortion. Catholic Democrats also sent a letter to all Catholic members of the U.S. Congress asking them to give up divisive partisan rhetoric for Lent and to pass health care reform by Easter. Additionally, the organization asked Catholics to sign a petition that called on Congress to pass health care reform.\n\nFor the 2010 midterm elections, Catholic Democrats issued A Catholic Pledge to America, which called on Catholic voters to support candidates whose policies reflect Catholic social justice. Additionally, the organization issued a voter's guide that contrasted the accomplishments of the Democratic Congress with the Republican Pledge to America. National director Steve Krueger and board member Kathleen Kennedy Townsend appeared on the PBS program Religion & Ethics Newsweekly. In July 2011, Mr. Krueger became president of Catholic Democrats.\n\nIn the fall of 2011 as the presidential primaries approached, Catholic Democrats sent a letter to then-Archbishop Timothy Dolan, president of the USCCB, detailing the theological flaws in arguments by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) in favor of a federal austerity budget that proposed drastic cuts in healthcare, food stamps, and other services for the poor. The organization asked the U.S. bishops to vigorously address the challenges of increased poverty, unemployment and income inequality, and to reaffirm the principles that the U.S. bishops unambiguously laid out in the 1980s and again in the 1990s in their pastoral letter, Economic Justice for All. Archbishop Dolan replied in a letter to the leaders of Catholic Democrats, “One of the reasons defense of religious liberty is such a high priority is because this is necessary to protect our efforts in the promotion of charity, justice, peace, service, and advocacy. Likewise, I worry when any attempt to dialogue with Republicans is interpreted as turning one’s back on the poor. Nevertheless, I very much welcome your comments and have taken them seriously.”\n\nIn part because all the Republican presidential candidates opposed the administration's job creation and anti-poverty proposals, and chose to attack expanded healthcare access, Catholic Democrats became deeply involved in the 2012 presidential election. According to Archbishop Charles Chaput of Philadelphia, responding to a question from Dr. Whelan at a public forum at Assumption College in Worcester, the US bishops did not have time at their upcoming November 2011 meeting to discuss the plight of the poor and the state of the national economy. But the bishops did spend the majority of that meeting planning and launching a campaign against the Obama Administration centered on the idea that the government was responsible for an attack on religious liberty.\n\nThat campaign focused on gay marriage, and later on whether employees of Catholic hospitals and universities should have insurance coverage for contraception. In a February 2012 interview on C-SPAN, Catholic Democrats Board member Kathleen Kennedy Townsend strongly supported the administration’s efforts to provide wider access to contraceptives, with their potential for decreasing the number of abortions. But in an opinion piece the same week in the Philadelphia Inquirer, Archbishop Chaput said that the administration was motivated by “a seemingly deep distrust of the formative role religious faith has on personal and social conduct, and a deep distaste for religion's moral influence on public affairs.” The Inquirer subsequently interviewed Catholic Democrats’ president Steve Krueger, and reported this exchange of views with Archbishop Chaput:\n“While there's nothing wrong with a Catholic bishop being a Republican or a Democrat,” Krueger said, “there's something eerily unsettling when the archbishop's political affiliation and the teaching authority he rightfully claims conflate, so that he becomes more of a partisan political figure than a shepherd.\" Told of Krueger's criticism, Chaput became visibly annoyed and leaned forward in his chair. \"Can a group that calls itself 'Catholic Democrats' talk about politicizing things? That's absolutely ridiculous.\" Asked if he had a preferred candidate in the presidential elections, Chaput allowed a small smile and shook his head. \"I don't talk about candidates,\" he said. \"I just talk about the issues.”\n\nCatholic Democrats took to the air on Public Radio, syndicated Spanish-language radio, and the mainstream print media to support the United States Department of Health and Human Services decision to provide broader access to contraception. Columnist Bill Press, citing Catholic Democrats’ concerns about the bishops’ neglect for poverty-related issues, wrote in April 2012, “When I was growing up a Catholic, the nuns had a phrase for those who obeyed some tenets of the Church but not others: ‘Cafeteria Catholics.’ Today, the biggest ‘Cafeteria Catholics’ are Catholic bishops.”\n\nCatholic Democrats opposed the use of churches to support the Republican presidential ticket. In a study of the matter, Catholic Democrats estimated that the commercial communications value of the USCCB's unprecedented \"religious liberty\" campaign in 2012 was likely to fall between $60 million and $100 million, based on the estimated percentage of partisan homilies heard by the 26 million Catholics attending mass each week. “If the USCCB were a Super PAC, the value of its campaign would likely top the list of independent expenditure organizations,” said Mr. Krueger in the Huffington Post.\n\nAlso in 2012, Catholic Democrats opposed efforts to politicize Catholic parishes by reaching out directly to all the parishes in Governor Romney’s home state of Massachusetts and in the battleground state of Virginia, outlining for pastors the USCCB’s own guidelines forbidding electioneering by political parties in Catholic parishes.\n\nGov. Romney chose U.S. Representative Paul Ryan, a Catholic, as his running mate in August 2012. Catholic Democrats pointed out the inconsistencies between Rep Ryan’s previous budget proposals and the Catholic “preferential option for the poor,” citing opposition from a wide array of Catholic theologians and other professors, Catholic nuns, and Bishops Stephen Blaire and Howard Hubbard. “The selection of U.S. Representative Paul Ryan as Mitt Romney’s running mate puts the Ryan budget, the role of the Catholic Social Justice Tradition, and the ways we as a society can help the poor at the center of this campaign,” said Professor Nick Cafardi, a member of the board of Catholic Democrats.\n\nWhen Rep. Ryan met Vice President Joseph Biden in a historic televised debate between two Catholic vice presidential candidates, Catholic Democrats hosted debate watch parties across the country preceded by a roundtable conference call discussion featuring Sr. Simone Campbell of Network, Dean Cafardi, and Dr. Whelan from Catholic Democrats. The focus of that discussion was rising poverty and the differences between the two campaigns on strategies to accelerate the recovery of the U.S. economy.\n\nIn the fall of 2012, Dr. Whelan joined forces with two former University of Notre Dame law professors and law school deans, Douglas Kmiec and Ed Gaffney, to write the book “America Undecided: Catholic, Independent and Social Justice Perspectives on Election 2012.” Prof Gaffney is a religious liberty scholar and Prof Kmiec a nationally-known constitutional law expert. They argued that there was no merit to the idea that the Obama administration was opposed to religious liberty or hostile to Catholicism. The book begins by chronicling the Catholic influence on the early life of President Barack Obama, who attended Catholic school in Jakarta Indonesia as a child. His mother, Ann Dunham, worked collaboratively for 20 years with a Dutch Jesuit in a Catholic vocational school in Jakarta, trying to advance the economic prospects of a population emerging there from colonialism. Dr. Whelan interviewed a group of Catholic priests who had hired Mr. Obama in 1985 to work in Chicago Catholic parishes as a community organizer.\n\nThe book goes on to explore the details of the USCCB’s turnabout on the expansion of health insurance availability, and ultimately their opposition to the historic 2010 Affordable Care Act. It discusses the role of nuns such as Sr. Simone Campbell of Network and Sr. Carol Keehan of the Catholic Health Association of the United States in ultimately helping pass the legislation, and the subsequent efforts by the Church to censure the nuns. Finally, it explores the details of the Church’s opposition to the contraception mandate, and their mislabeling of some contraceptives as “abortifacients.” They debunk the idea that the government’s efforts to provide contraception coverage to all women, including those who work for Catholic hospitals and universities, constitutes an attack on religious freedom or a violation of the Constitution’s separation of church and state.\n\nA subsequent opinion piece in October 2012 by Dr. Whelan and Catholic Democrats Board member Kathleen Kennedy Townsend explored Governor Romney’s opposition to providing healthcare coverage for all Americans.\n\nPresident Obama and Vice-President Biden prevailed over Gov Romney and Rep Ryan, 51-47%, in the general popular vote. Catholics were as likely as the general population to vote for President Obama, with exit polling showing 51% supporting the Democrats and 48% for the Republican ticket. The Catholic majority for Obama was heavily dependent on Latino Catholics, who supported Obama 76-23%. Romney won among non-Hispanic white Catholics 56 to 43%. This contrasted with non-Hispanic white Protestants who favored Romney 69-29%. By comparison, Obama won the 2008 election with 53% of the general vote, compared with 46% for Senator John McCain. Catholics voted for Obama 54 to 45%, with non-Hispanic white Catholics favoring McCain 52 to 47% and Latino Catholic favoring Obama 72 – 26%. Exit polls have shown a progressive drop in non-Hispanic white Catholics over each of the last four elections as a percentage of those who voted, though the overall percentage of Catholics among voters has held constant at 27%.\n\nIn August 2013, Catholic Democrats teamed up with leaders from the US Bishops’ Office of African American Affairs, the Catholic Campaign for Human Development, the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Washington, and other Catholic organizations to host an event in conjunction with the 50th commemoration of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom and Rev. Martin Luther King Jr’s \"I Have a Dream\" speech. An opening mass of celebration featured the Gospel Choir of Holy Redeemer Parish in Washington DC, with a homily by Fr. David Bava surveying the history of Catholic efforts related to slavery and civil rights. A wide-ranging discussion entitled, “A Catholic Conversation on Race, Religion and the March on Washington” was moderated by Ralph McCloud, the director of the USCCB's Catholic Campaign for Human Development. The discussants included United States Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez, National Pax Christi USA President Sr. Patricia Chappell, John Carr (Director of the Initiative on Catholic Social Thought & Public Life at Georgetown University), and USCCB Assistant Director for African American Affairs Donna Toliver Grimes. The event filled Holy Redeemer Church, and was well-received as the only public celebration of the role of Catholics in the Civil Rights Movement. Catholic Democrats President Krueger, who conceived the event, was quoted in the National Catholic Reporter, saying it \"was intended to be a bridge between Catholic involvement in the civil rights movement of the 1960s and the unfinished business of the 1963 march today based on the Catholic social justice tradition. It is a 'next first step' on a journey that we hope may serve as an impetus for a national conversation on racial justice in parishes, dioceses and faith-based communities across our land.\"\n\nIn 2014, Catholic Democrats conducted a Get Out the Vote (GOTV) campaign asking Catholic voters to consider the moral messages of Pope Francis, and his focus on poverty, as they were preparing to vote in the 2014 midterm elections. The organization produced radio advertisements featuring James Roosevelt, Jr., the grandson of Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Eleanor Roosevelt, and Martin Sheen. The radio ads were played on Pandora Internet radio in the states of Kentucky and New Hampshire. The radio ads were a part of Catholic Democrats' 2014 \"Be Connected\" campaign. Pandora rated these advertisements as among the highest rated political ads for 2014 in terms of listener engagement.\n\nCatholic Democrats hosted a national conference call on the eve of Pope Francis's visit to the United States in September 2015, featuring Sr. Mary Johnson, SND, PhD, Distinguished Prof. of Sociology and Religious Studies at Trinity Washington University, and Fr. Tom Reese SJ, of the National Catholic Reporter. The group launched a prayer petition for the pope, and President Steve Krueger represented the organization at the White House reception for Pope Francis.\n\nIn 2016 Catholic Democrats supported the candidacy of Secretary Hillary Clinton for President. Although she appears to have won the overall Catholic vote, according to a research center at Georgetown University, she ended up losing the non-Hispanic white Catholic vote—which may have played a pivotal role in the loss of traditional Democratic Midwestern states like Michigan, Wisconsin, Ohio and Pennsylvania that have large and older Catholic populations. Catholics tend to vote in higher numbers than the general population, which may have contributed to an outsized effect of the white Catholic preference for Donald J. Trump. Professor Thomas Groome of Boston College published an opinion piece in \"The New York Times arguing that the Democrats need to reach out to people of faith on the abortion issue by championing their successful efforts to decrease abortions dramatically through the eight years of the \nObama presidency. His essay inspired more than 2500 comments, and the Times published a Q&A with responses by Professor Groome and Steven Krueger, president of Catholic Democrats.\n\nBecause Catholic Democrats has long championed greater access to health care as a right advocated by Pope Francis and the Catholic Social Justice tradition, the group mobilized its members in opposition to Republican efforts to overturn the Affordable Care Act. The American Health Care Act (the Ryan-Trump health care bill) was withdrawn from consideration in the House of Representatives on March 24, 2017, preserving health insurance for 24 million people who otherwise would have lost it, according to the Congressional Budget Office.\n\nResponding to the child abuse allegations made against Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, Catholic Democrats undertook an advertising campaign appealing to Catholics in Alabama to respond forcefully to the lessons learned from the Catholic clergy abuse crisis, and to support Moore's opponent. On December 12, 2017, former US Attorney Doug Jones won an upset victory over Moore in the special election to fill the seat vacated by US Attorney General Jeff Sessions. This narrowed the Republican Senate majority to a 51-49 margin, effective January 2018, at a time when the Senate is considering tax legislation that would dramatically worsen the disparity of wealth in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "3166886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3166886", "title": "Church–state relations in Argentina", "text": "Church–state relations in Argentina\n\nThe first conflicts between the Roman Catholic Church and the Argentine government can be traced to the ideas of the May Revolution of 1810. The Tribunal of the Inquisition was suppressed in the territories of the United Provinces of the River Plate on 1813-03-23, and on 4 June the General Assembly declared the state \"independent from any ecclesiastical authorities existing outside its territory\".\n\nThe framers of the 1853 Constitution, who were in many cases influenced by Freemasonry, found a middle way between an officially Catholic country and a secular society, by allowing religious freedom while keeping economic support for the Church, and employing the patronage system, by which the President selected triplets of bishop candidates that the Pope could approve.\n\nThis system was abolished in 1966, during the dictatorial rule of Juan Carlos Onganía, and replaced by a Concordat which gave the Vatican the attribution of appointing and removing bishops, leaving the President only with the right to object the appointments. In the 1994 constitutional reform the Concordat was awarded the rank of international treaty and thus given priority over national laws, although Congress is still allowed to reformulate it. The same reform eliminated the constitutional requirement for the President to be a Roman Catholic.\n\nThe protocol of the Argentine government has always been influenced by the Catholic Church. Bishops often have a place along ministers, governors and other officials in patriotic ceremonies. On the celebration of the May Revolution, the president along with his or her spouse and ministers is expected to attend the \"Te Deum\" celebrated by the Archbishop of Buenos Aires.\n\nDuring the first twenty years after the May Revolution, the new state did not establish official diplomatic relations with the Vatican. The Papacy did not wish to create a conflict with the Spanish Crown by showing support for the South American revolution; in 1825, Pope Leo XII denounced it. During the government of Martín Rodríguez (1820–1824), there was a (failed) project to transfer the clergy to state control and abolish tithing in favour of state financial backing for the Church.\n\nJuan Manuel de Rosas destroyed the possibility of re-establishing relations when, in 1837, he dictated that no civil or ecclesiastic authority in Buenos Aires Province must acknowledge or obey pontifical documents dated after 1810-05-25 without an authorization granted by the foreign relations department.\n\nAfter Rosas's fall, Justo José de Urquiza proposed the Holy See to create a diocese of the littoral provinces, to avoid the intervention of the bishopric of Buenos Aires, but the Vatican did not accept the Concordat proposed in 1857.\n\nPossibly the first major conflict between the Argentine State and the Church arose in 1884, when President Julio Argentino Roca supported Law 1420, dictating compulsory universal secular education, and the law of civil marriage. The opposition of the Church led to the expulsion of the Nuncio, the removal of dissident bishops, and a breakup of diplomatic relations with the Vatican, which were re-established during Roca's second term.\n\nThe civil marriage law was approved in 1889 under the presidency of Miguel Juárez Celman. The Archbishop of Buenos Aires, Federico Aneiros, sent a document to the priests instructing them to explain church attendants that civil marriage was simply concubinage (in its modern sense, cohabitation). The Vatican sent instructions to resist the law; the Capitular Vicar of Córdoba told people to ignore the law, and several priests who had administered the sacrament to couples married under the civil law were punished.\n\nIn October 1934 the International Eucharistic Congress was held in Buenos Aires. The Papal Legate was the then-Secretary of the Vatican, Cardinal Eugenio Pacelli (who would become Pope Pius XII in 1939). After the Congress, Argentina was granted a cardinal and three new archbishops, which showed the local and Vatican concern about the advancement of National Socialism. With this sensitive topic in hand, the Church pressured the government on the issue of re-establishing the possibility of religious teaching in public schools. The conservative Agustín Pedro Justo administration lent ears to these requests.\n\nThe government of Juan Perón (1946–1955) was one of changing relationships between the Church and the State. At first, the new Peronist movement was linked to the Armed Forces. The Army and the Church considered themselves barriers against the ideologies of Socialism and Communism. The Church also supported a doctrine of \"social justice\" that shared with Peronism the idea of a State that mediates in class conflicts and evens out social inequalities.\n\nHowever, some factions of the Church objected Perón's \"statism\", that is, the intervention of the national government in private society, sometimes invading the sphere of influence of the Church, as in the case of welfare plans and public education, the latter being the most contentious issue. By a law dictated in 1943 during the previous dictatorial government, public schools were forced to provide religious education classes. In 1946, the Argentine Senate approved a legal re-affirmation of all the decrees passed by the military junta. This law was debated in the less docile Chamber of Deputies, and was finally passed thanks to the vote of the Peronists, who submitted to the will of the Executive Branch. The arguments presented were nationalistic and anti-liberal, identifying Argentine nationality with the deep Catholicism of the motherland, Spain, and also emphasizing religion as a means to create a personal conscience and an ordered society.\n\nThe religious education law, however, limited the powers of the Church: teachers, curricular contents and textbooks were designated by the State, after consultations with the Church if need be. Besides this, the rest of the school subjects were independent of religious influence, and therefore followed the secular tradition of Argentine education. The Peronist government also introduced subjects such as sports, hygiene and sanitary care, which the Church deemed excessively concerned with bodily matters. Finally, education became a vehicle for quasi-religious propaganda for the personality cult of the president and his wife Eva. In June 1950 Perón appointed Armando Méndez San Martín, an anti-Catholic (accused by the Church of being a Freemason), as Minister of Education.\n\n\"Democratic\" Catholics were opposed to a full integration of religion and State, but rather preferred a separation between State and Church that granted all schools (public and private, including confessional ones) to receive state funding. These Catholics were in the minority and had no representation before Peronism.\n\nDuring his second term, Perón resented the Vatican's aspiration to promote the formation of Catholic-based political parties (i. e. Christian Democracy parties). In 1954, out of political rather than ideological reasons, the government suppressed religious education in schools and attempted to legalize prostitution, to pass a divorce law and to promote a constitutional amendment to separate State and Church. Perón publicly accused bishops and priests of sabotaging his government.\n\nOn 1955-06-14, during the Corpus Christi procession, the bishops Manuel Tato and Ramón Novoa spoke against Perón, turning the celebration into an anti-government demonstration. Perón demanded the removal of the bishops to the Vatican. During the night, violent Peronist groups attacked and burned churches in Buenos Aires.\n\nAnti-Peronists in the military, who were mostly Catholic, and factions of the Church, had been long encouraged by this building tension. On June 16, two days after Corpus Christi, airplanes of the Navy fleet, with the motto \"Cristo vence\" (\"Christ wins\") painted on them, bombed Plaza de Mayo, killing hundreds of civilians, in the first move towards the coup d'état which would ultimately depose Perón, the \"Revolución Libertadora\".\n\nOn October 16, 1966, the Argentine Chancellor Nicanor Costa Méndez signed an agreement with the Vatican, represented by the Nuncio Humberto Mozzoni. By this Concordat, which replaced the old Patronage system, the Argentine Church would have the right to create or modify dioceses in the national territory, to directly appoint archbishops and bishops, and to keep correspondence freely with the bishops, the clergy and the Argentine Catholics in general. The Concordat was ratified in the Holy See on January 28, 1967.\n\nSee Dirty War#Alleged participation of members of the Catholic Church\nPresident Raúl Alfonsín (1983–1989) had a rough relationship with the Catholic Church. Before 1987, the Civil Code recognized \"de facto\" separation of husband and wife, but did not allow remarriage. A law of divorce was approved by the Chamber of Deputies in 1986. The Catholic Church pressured the Senate to stop it, threatening to deny the sacraments to those who would vote for it. The Senate finally passed the law on 1987-06-03. During this year the relationship with the Church was also damaged by the call to a new Pedagogical Congress that led the Church to fear a cut on the state subsidies to private schools, and by legislation reforms that equalled legitimate and \"natural\" (illegitimate) children, which the Church considered to affect the concept of a Christian family.\n\nPresident Carlos Menem (1989–1999) was linked to conservative Vatican organizations (such as the Opus Dei) and was a staunch supporter of the Church's position on abortion, for which he was awarded a special decoration by Pope John Paul II, even while he was heavily criticized by prominent bishops because of the poverty and unemployment caused by his economic measures.\n\nPresident Fernando de la Rúa (1999–2001) was also a devout Catholic, and did not have major problems dealing with the Church.\n\nPresident Néstor Kirchner (elected in 2003), while professing belief in the Catholic faith, has often had a troubled relationship with the hierarchy of the Church. Kirchner belongs to the center-left wing of Peronism and has placed emphasis on certain progressive views that do not go well with the Catholic Church.\n\nThe Argentine national government passed laws and began a program to the effect of providing assistance on sex education to all citizens, including the provision of free combined oral contraceptive pills and condoms. The Church opposes artificial contraception and has placed conditions on its acceptance of sex education in schools.\n\nAt the beginning of 2005, the minister of Health, Ginés González García, made public his support for the legalization of abortion, and Kirchner's silence on the matter angered the Church. The military vicar Antonio Baseotto expressed his disgust by paraphrasing Mark 9:42 (\"And whosoever shall cause one of these little ones that believe on me to stumble, it were better for him if a great millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea\") and suggesting that González García should be given that treatment. Baseotto was heavily criticized because this \"punishment\" echoes the infamous \"vuelos de la muerte\" (\"flights of death\") whereby prisoners of the last military regime were thrown into the Atlantic from planes. The conflict escalated and caused the Argentine government to relieve Baseotto from his job as the head of the military chaplains. This prompted accusations on the part of Catholic observers (also fueled by right-wing opposition leaders and media) that such actions threatened religious freedom. The government pointed out that Baseotto is still a bishop and may celebrate Mass and perform pastoral duties wherever he chooses — he will simply not be on the payroll of the state.\n\nPresident Kirchner was also criticized for not attending the funeral of Pope John Paul II (he did attend the inauguration of Pope Benedict XVI), which took place when the above conflict was still in the spotlight of the media. On the celebration of the May Revolution on 2005-05-25, Kirchner chose not to attend the Buenos Aires \"Te Deum\" but the one celebrated in the Cathedral of Santiago del Estero, where other public celebrations of the day were also moved. This absence of the President did not go unnoticed (it was the first such occasion in 175 years), but the government denied a political intention behind it, except the need to \"federalize\" the celebration.\n\nIn October 2005 conflict erupted again as the Argentine Chamber of Deputies took steps to pass a Sex Education Law that would encompass the whole school system (public and private, including confessional schools), forcing educational establishments to teach students about gender roles and contraception, among other topics. The Archbishop of La Plata, Héctor Aguer, accused the state of \"promoting sexual corruption\" and \"inciting fornication, lust and promiscuity\", denouncing that 11- and 12-year-old students in a school already implementing a sex education curriculum had received condoms and contraceptive pills. Upon being termed a \"fanatic\" by the former Minister González García, Aguer replied that the Minister was \"intolerant and a fundamentalist\" with regards to his views. The Permanent Secretariat for the Family, an organ of the Argentine Episcopal Conference, passed a declaration asking the representatives of the people not to approve sex education law projects \"already rejected by the Argentinians\". Soon afterwards, on 6 November, the Archbishop of Resistencia, Carmelo Giaquinta, entered the conflict by warning that the state would \"lose its reason for existence\" if it promoted such laws in the fields of health and education, and announced that he would \"encourage Christians to civil disobedience\" in that case.\n\nIn 2010 Argentina became the third Catholic country to legalize same-sex marriage despite heavy criticism and protests that turned violent between supporters of the traditional Church and advocates of homosexual rights.\n\nOn November 12, 2005 the Argentine bishops presided by Jorge Bergoglio, gathered in the 90th Assembly of the Argentine Episcopal Conference, held in Pilar, Buenos Aires, closed the meetings with an official document about pastoral matters that includes, as usual, a critical appraisal of socio-political issues. The document claimed that Argentina suffers \"a worrying form of in-solidarity, [which is] the scandalous growth of the inequality of income distribution\". On the following day, the Argentine Head of Cabinet, Alberto Fernández, replied that this \"does not correspond with reality\" and that the Church had \"ignored much data provided by current statistics\" which showed a decrease in poverty since the beginning of the Kirchner administration in 2003 \"(see Economy of Argentina)\". The bishops' document also included a controversial admonition:\n\n\"Twenty-two years after the restoration of democracy, it is convenient for us elders to ask ourselves whether we are conveying the young the whole truth about what happened in the 1970s, or if we are offering them a biased portrayal of the facts, which could raise new feuds among Argentinians... [Thus it would be] if we set aside the seriousness of State terror, the means employed and the ensuing crimes against humanity... but the opposite could also happen, that the crimes of the guerilla were silenced or that they may not be duly abhorred.\"\n\nFernández called this \"an unfortunate revisiting of the doctrine of the two demons\" (purportedly claiming an equal moral ground for guerilla and State terrorism), since \"there is nobody in Argentina who exalts the guerilla as the document says\". Senator Miguel Ángel Pichetto (PJ) seconded the statement by Fernández, calling the above \"a coup-calling (\"golpista\") document that seems to have been written in the 1970s, at the time when some factions [of society] went knocking on [the doors of] military quarters\".\n\nPresident Kirchner himself replied on November 16, commenting that the statements of the Church \"look more like those of a political party, more like earthly affairs, than like the task they should be performing\", and that the bishops were \"absolutely wrong in their diagnosis of the situation of the country\". On the issue of the 1970s, Kirchner called attention on the many bishops \"who weren't there while children were disappearing\" and who \"gave [the sacrament of] confession to torturers\" of the Dirty War. Members of the opposition later qualified Kirchner as \"over-generalizing\", \"unjust\" and \"intolerant\".\n\nIn December 2008 the legislature of Salta Province passed a controversial law making the teaching of religion compulsory in both state and private schools. The move sparked outrage among religious minorities and human rights organizations, which called for a secular educational system.\n\nGovernor Juan Manuel Urtubey, the proponent of the law, quickly pointed out that religious lessons would be oriented to all creeds, and that all students would take part, \"regardless of their beliefs\".\n\nHowever, doubts remain about the legality of the measure, since it conflicts with the Provincial Constitution itself, which Urtubey helped write, when he was elected conventional constituent in 1998. Article 11º enshrines the secrecy of the citizen's faith, since it clearly states that \"No one must be asked what their religious beliefs are.\" Article 28º Section ñ also makes a statement, when it describes the objectives of the law:\n\n\"to provide religious instruction, which is part of the curriculum, and is to be taught during school time, taking into account parents' and/or tutors' beliefs, who will decide whether their children will attend such classes. \"Contents (to be taught) and teachers' qualifications will require approval by church authorities.\"\n\"In Spanish unless otherwise noted.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11333018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11333018", "title": "Communities Directory", "text": "Communities Directory\n\nThe Communities Directory, A Comprehensive Guide to Intentional Community provides listing of intentional communities primarily from North America but also from around the world. The \"Communities Directory\" has both an (online)and a print edition, which is published based on data from the website.\n\nThe first version of the \"Communities Directory\" appeared in issue #1 of \"Communities\" magazine in December 1972. In all, ten versions were published in the magazine over the next 18 years. The Fellowship for Intentional Community became publisher of the magazine in 1989, and in 1990 released the first self-contained book-format edition of the directory (also distributed to magazine subscribers, counted as double issue #77/78). \n\nThe \"Communities Directory\" is now in its 6th edition. Editions were published in 1990, 1995, 2000, 2005, and 2007. The production cycle has been shortened due to the online collection of data. The 4th edition lists 600 communities in North America and another 130 worldwide. The 5th edition lists almost 1250 communities worldwide.\n\nThere is also a companion video \"Visions of Utopia: Experiments in Sustainable Culture\" that outlines the history of intentional shared living and profiles a diverse cross-section of contemporary groups (external link included below).\n\nThe Online \"Communities Directory\" database is shared by members of the Intentional Community Data Collective which includes the Fellowship for Intentional Community and Coho/US's Cohousing Directory.\n\nThe \"Communities Directory\" is published by Fellowship for Intentional Community, which also publishes the quarterly magazine \"Communities\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1920797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1920797", "title": "Comptroller and Auditor General of India", "text": "Comptroller and Auditor General of India\n\nThe Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India is an authority, established by Article 148 of the Constitution of India, which audits all receipts and expenditure of the Government of India and the state governments, including those of bodies and authorities substantially financed by the government. The CAG is also the external auditor of Government-owned corporations and conducts supplementary audit of government companies, i.e., any non-banking/ non-insurance company in which Union Government has an equity share of at least 51 per cent or subsidiary companies of existing government companies. The reports of the CAG are taken into consideration by the Public Accounts Committees (PACs) and Committees on Public Undertakings (COPUs), which are special committees in the Parliament of India and the state legislatures. The CAG is also the head of the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the affairs of which are managed by officers of Indian Audit and Accounts Service, and has over 58,000 employees across the country.\n\nThe CAG is mentioned in the Constitution of India under Article 149 – 151.\n\nThe CAG is ranked 9th and enjoys the same status as a judge of Supreme Court of India in Indian order of precedence. The current CAG of India is Rajiv Mehrishi, who assumed office on 25 September 2017. He is the 13th CAG of India.\n\nThe Comptroller and Auditor-General of India is appointed by the President of India following a recommendation by the Prime Minister. On appointment, he/she has to make an oath or affirmation before the President of India.\n\n\"I,(name of the person being appointed), having appointed Comptroller and Auditor-General of India do swear in the name of God/solemnly affirm that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established, that I will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India, that I will duly and faithfully and to the best of my ability, knowledge and judgement perform the duties of my office without fear or favour, affection or ill-will and that I will uphold the Constitution and the laws.\nAs per the provisions of the constitution, the CAG’s (DPC) (Duties, Powers and Conditions of Service) Act, 1971 was enacted. As per the various provisions, the duties of the CAG include the audit of:\n\nRecently the CAG under Vinod Rai has constantly been in the limelight for its reports exposing mega corruption, particularly in 2G spectrum case, Commonwealth Games scam and other scams.\n\nIn June 2012, Lal Krishna Advani a veteran Indian politician and former Deputy Prime Minister of India (as well as former Leader of the Opposition in Indian Parliament) suggested that CAG's appointment should be made by a bipartisan collegium consisting of the prime minister, the Chief Justice of India, the Law Minister and the Leaders of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. Subsequently, M Karunanidhi, the head of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) party and five times Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu supported the suggestion. Advani made this demand to remove any impression of bias or lack of transparency and fairness because, according to him, the current system was open to \"manipulation and partisanship\". Similar demand was made by many former CEC's such as B B Tandon, N Gopalaswamy and S Y Quraishi, however the government did not seem too keen.\n\nCPI MP Gurudas Dasgupta wrote a letter to the PM and demand CAG has appointed by the collegium of consisting the PM, the CJI and the leader of the opposition in Lok Sabha but the PM declined. Former CAG V. K. Shunglu has suggested in its CWG scam report that CAG be made a multi-member body.\n\nPMO minister V.Narayanasamy in his interview with PTI said Government is considering the Shunglu panel report but PM and Finance Minister declined it. Later V. Narayanasamy said he misquoted but PTI reaffirmed it.\n\nThe salary and other conditions of service of the CAG are determined by the Parliament of India through \"The Comptroller and Auditor-General's (Duties, Powers and Conditions of Service) Act, 1971\". His salary is same as that of judge of the Supreme court of India. Neither his salary nor rights in respect of leave of absence, pension or age of retirement can be varied to his disadvantage \"after\" his appointment. The CAG is not eligible for further office either under the Government of India or under the Government of any State after he has ceased to hold his office. These provisions are in order to ensure the \"independence\" of CAG.\n\nThe CAG can be removed only on an address from both houses of parliament on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity. The CAG vacates the office on attaining the age of 65 years even without completing the 6 years term by impeachment also.\n\nThe Constitution of India [Article 148] provides for an independent office to the CAG of India. He or she is the head of Indian Audit and Accounts Department. He/she has a duty to uphold the Constitution of India and laws of the Parliament to safeguard the interests of the public exchequer. The Indian Audit and Accounts Service aids the CAG in the discharge of his/her functions.\n\nAudit of government accounts (including the accounts of the state governments) in India is entrusted to the CAG of India who is empowered to audit all expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of the union or state governments, whether incurred within India or outside, all revenue into the Consolidated Funds and all transactions relating to the Public Accounts and the Contingency Funds of the Union and the states. Specifically, audits include:\n\nIn addition, the CAG also executes performance and compliance audits of various functions and departments of the government. Recently, the CAG as a part of thematic review on \"Introduction of New Trains\" is deputing an auditors' team on selected trains, originating and terminating at Sealdah and Howrah stations, to assess the necessity of their introduction. In a path-breaking judgement, the Supreme Court of India ruled that the CAG General could audit private firms in revenue-share deals with government.\n\nCAG has been elected the Chairman of the United Nations' Board of Auditors.CAG has been appointed as external auditor of eleven UN organisations:\n\n\nOmkar Goswami is an Indian who is presently one of the External Auditors of the UN organisation World Food Programme (WFP) headquartered at Rome, Italy.\n\nIn November 2009, the CAG requested the government to amend the 1971 Audit Act to bring all private-public partnerships (PPPs), Panchayti Raj Institutions and societies getting government funds within the ambit of the CAG. The amendment further proposes to enhance CAG’s powers to access information under the Audit Act. In the past, almost 30% of the documents demanded by CAG officials have been denied to them. The PPP model has become a favourite mode of executing big infrastructure projects worth millions of rupees and these projects may or may not come under the audit purview of the CAG, depending on sources of funds and the nature of revenue sharing agreements between the government and the private entities. Currently, it is estimated that 65 percent of government spending does not come under the scrutiny of the CAG.\n\nFollowing are some of the most debated CAG reports:\n\nA CAG report on issue of Licences and Allocation of 2G Spectrum resulted in a huge controversy. The report estimated that there was a \"presumptive loss\" of by the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government. In a chargesheet filed on 2 April 2011 by the investigating agency Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the agency pegged the loss at \n\nAll the speculations of profit, loss and no-loss were put to rest on 2 February 2012 when the Supreme Court of India on a public interest litigation (PIL) declared allotment of spectrum as \"unconstitutional and arbitrary\" and quashed all the 122 licenses issued in 2008 during tenure of A. Raja (then minister for communications & IT in the UPA government) the main accused. The court further said that A. Raja \"wanted to favour some companies at the cost of the public exchequer\" and \"virtually gifted away important national asset\".\n\nRevenue loss calculation was further established on 3 August 2012 when according to the directions of the Supreme Court, Govt of India revised the reserve price for 2G spectrum to .\n\nHowever, the special court in New Delhi acquitted all accused in the 2G spectrum case including prime accused A Raja and Kanimozhi on December 21, 2017, the verdict was based on the fact that CBI could not find any evidence against the accused in those 7 years. Per the judgement, \"Some people created a scam by artfully arranging a few selected facts and exaggerating things beyond recognition to astronomical levels.\"\n\nA 2012 CAG report on coal mine allocation received massive media and political reaction as well as public outrage. During the 2012 monsoon session of the Parliament, the BJP protested the Government's handling of the issue demanding the resignation of the prime minister and refused to have a debate in the Parliament. The deadlock resulted in Parliament functioning only seven of the twenty days of the session.\n\nThe CAG report criticised the Government by saying it had the authority to allocate coal blocks by a process of competitive bidding, but chose not to. As a result, both public sector enterprises (PSEs) and private firms paid less than they might have otherwise. In its draft report in March, the CAG estimated that the \"windfall gain\" to the allocatees was . The CAG Final Report tabled in Parliament put the figure at \n\nWhile the initial CAG report suggested that coal blocks could have been allocated more efficiently, resulting in more revenue to the government, at no point did it suggest that corruption was involved in the allocation of coal. Over the course of 2012, however, the question of corruption came to dominate the discussion. In response to a complaint by the BJP, the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) directed the CBI to investigate the matter. The CBI named a dozen Indian firms in a First Information Report (FIR), the first step in a criminal investigation. These FIRs accuse them of overstating their net worth, failing to disclose prior coal allocations, and hoarding rather than developing coal allocations. The CBI officials investigating the case have speculated that bribery may be involved.\n\nThe scandal was first exposed due to the CAG report in the matter in December 1995. The report alleged of fraudulent withdrawal of government funds worth in the Bihar animal husbandry department against non-existent supplies of fodder and medicines. Subsequently, based on Patna High Court's orders, CBI investigated the case and registered as many as 63 cases. Many accused have been convicted while many cases are still under trial.\n\nThe oil ministry imposed a fine of ₹7000 crores on Mukesh Ambani's company for the sharp drop in production of gas and violations mentioned in CAG's 2011 report. Oil ministry did not approve company's US$7.2 billion stake in deal with BP. So Jaipal Reddy known for his honesty was shifted from oil ministry to the Science and Technology ministry owing to pressure from Reliance group of Industries. RIL allowed the CAG to begin the audit in April this year after stalling it for a year. But unresolved issues could stall audit of KG Basin again. Then Reliance appointed Defence Secretary Shashikant Sharma as new CAG to audit KG Basin, said Prashant Bhushan. In KG D-6, most of the cost had been recovered by the private player and the increase in price would only go as profit. About 90% of receipts from K-G D-6 were so far booked as expenditure and in the remaining 10%, only 1% was paid to the government and rest 9% went to the operator as profit.\n\nSource:\n"}
{"id": "4326713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4326713", "title": "Council of Ministers (Portugal)", "text": "Council of Ministers (Portugal)\n\nThe Council of Ministers (, or ) is a collegial executive body within the Government of Portugal. It is presided over by the Prime Minister, but the President of Portugal can take on this role at the Prime Minister's request. All senior ministers are members of the council of ministers, and when the prime minister finds it applicable, state secretaries can also attend its meetings.\n\nThe Council of Ministers discusses and approves bills to be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic and decrees and resolutions.\n\nAs of December 18, 2017, the Council of Ministers consists of the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46757449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46757449", "title": "Curtea de Conturi (Moldova)", "text": "Curtea de Conturi (Moldova)\n\nThe Court of Accounts of Moldova () is the supreme public external audit institution, according to the provisions of the Law of the Court of Accounts no. 261-XVI, dated 5 December, 2008, and is the only state public authority that controls the formation, management and use of public financial resources and management of public property by carrying out external audit in the public sector, confirming the compliance of the Republic of Moldova with the international standards on the best public external audit practices.\n\nThe court was established in 1994; the same year, it became member of international organizations EUROSAI and INTOSAI. It is located at 69 Ștefan cel Mare Boulevard, Chișinău, in a building inaugurated in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "4005551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4005551", "title": "Educational consultant", "text": "Educational consultant\n\nAn educational consultant is an independent consultant who helps parents/students and organizations with educational planning. They are classed as \"educational, vocational, and school counselors.\" Educational consultants, however, are normally self-employed or employed by consulting firms, while school counselors are employed by schools.\n\nThe majority of educational consultants are located in the United States and in the United Kingdom. The two main professional organizations for educational consultants in the United States are the Higher Education Consultants Association and the Independent Educational Consultants Association. The Higher Education Consultants Association is a professional association focused exclusively on the practice of college admissions consulting, while members of the Independent Educational Consultants Association also assist students with consulting specialties that include college admission, day and boarding school, at-risk students, and learning disabilities. Members of both associations work with both American students and students from other countries who are interested in coming to the United States to study. Many educational consultants in the U.S. are also members of other associations, such as the National Association for College Admission Counseling, its regional affiliates, and the National Association of Therapeutic Schools and Programs.\n\nA huge number of educational consultants are based in the United Kingdom, Canada, Europe, Asia, and South America. The primary association in the UK is the Society of Education Consultants (SEC). Other UK professional associations or bodies to which educational consultants typically seek membership or affiliation include the Department for Children, Schools and Families, Ofsted (The Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills), Learning and Skills Council, Council for the Curriculum, Examinations and Assessment, Special Educational Needs and Disability Tribunal and the Gilfus Education Group\n\nWhile some educational consultants are generalists, many specialize in assisting particular kinds of students or particular educational needs. For example, some consultants focus exclusively on assisting students with college planning and admissions, some on students seeking a private secondary school, and yet others specialize in students who are learning disabled or have behavioral/emotional difficulties. Other consultants provide advising services for college students seeking admission to graduate school. Other educational consultants work to assist high schools and other organizations with educational program planning. Fees for consulting services vary widely. Some consultants charge an hourly fee, while others offer an \"all inclusive\" package that may include unlimited hours of service. Some consultants offer a sliding scale based on family income, or offer \"pro bono\" services to low income students.\n\nFamilies considering hiring an educational consultant should carefully assess the qualifications and experience of individual consultants. Membership in one or more of the professional organizations described above may also indicate a consultant's dedication to professionalism, since these organizations have specific requirements for the education and experience of their members. In particular, these professional associations prohibit their members from accepting compensation from educational institutions for student referrals. However, in addition to looking at a consultant's experience and professional affiliations, families should also ask for references from past clients. Consultants should be clear about their fees, counseling process, educational philosophy, and expectations at the beginning of the relationship.\n\nThe field of educational consulting has grown considerably in the past decade. Those considering launching an educational consulting practice should begin by assessing their personal qualifications and experiences. Most successful consultants enjoy working with young people and their parents, and get satisfaction from helping students reach their goals. Although a few educational consultants have received media attention for charging large fees, prospective consultants should understand that very few consultants get rich from educational consulting, so the desire to earn a high income should be a secondary consideration. Since competition in the field is growing, prospective consultants should also conduct market research to determine the feasibility of launching a practice in their geographic area. Consultants should plan on being committed to continued professional development, such as attending conferences and regular school visits. Several of the organizations mentioned above hold annual conferences and offer training for those who are new to the field of educational consulting. Additionally, there are a number of universities and colleges that offer programs where consultants can further their education and knowledge.\n\nIn the United States, educational consultants are not bound by any particular statutory rules for practitioners. However, many of the professional organizations listed above have established standards for professional and ethical behavior for educational consultants by which their members pledge to abide.\n\nSome education agents catering to students applying to foreign universities are known to engage in ethically dubious practices, such as writing essays for applicants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280886", "title": "Elmer Davis", "text": "Elmer Davis\n\nElmer Davis (January 13, 1890 – May 18, 1958) was a news reporter, author, the Director of the United States Office of War Information during World War II and a Peabody Award recipient.\n\nDavis was born in Aurora, Indiana, the son of a cashier for the First National Bank of Aurora. One of his first professional writing jobs was with the \"Indianapolis Star\", a position he held while attending Franklin College. A brilliant student, Davis received a Rhodes Scholarship to Queen's College, Oxford in 1910. His stay in England was cut short when his father fell ill and eventually died. Davis met his wife, Florence, in England.\n\nUpon his return to America, Davis became an editor for the pulp magazine \"Adventure\", leaving after a year to work as a reporter and editorial writer for \"The New York Times\". For the next decade, Davis reported on stories ranging from pugilist Jack Dempsey to evangelist Billy Sunday. It was his coverage of Billy Sunday that gained him notoriety. Davis later left \"The New York Times\" and became a freelance writer.\n\nDavis' best-known work is his company history \"History of the New York Times. 1851–1921\" (New York: The New York Times, 1921).\n\nIn 1928 Davis published his one and only novel \"Giant Killer\", a retelling of the Biblical story of David.\n\nIn August 1939, Paul White, the news chief at CBS, asked Davis to fill in as a news analyst for H. V. Kaltenborn, who was off in Europe reporting on the increasingly hostile events. Davis became an instant success. Edward R. Murrow later commented that one reason he believed that Davis was likeable was his Hoosier accent, which reminded people of a friendly neighbor. By 1941, the audience for Davis' nightly five-minute newscast and comment was 12.5 million.\n\nOn June 1, 1941, Colgate-Palmolive-Peet began sponsoring seven-days-a-week newscasts by Davis on CBS. The program was carried on 95 stations from 8:55 to 9 p.m., Eastern Time.\n\nDavis spent two and a half years reporting the news on radio and gaining the trust of the nation. Then, in 1941, his colleagues persuaded President Franklin Delano Roosevelt to appoint Davis director of the newly created United States Office of War Information, a sprawling organization with over 3,000 employees. Even though Davis was being paid $53,000 per year from CBS, he left the network to work in government during the crisis of World War II.\n\nAs Director of the Office of War Information, Davis recommended to President Roosevelt that Japanese-Americans be permitted to enlist for service in the Army and Navy and urged him to oppose bills in Congress that would deprive Nisei of citizenship and intern them during the war. He argued that Japanese propaganda proclaiming it a racial war could be combated by deeds that counteracted this. Davis has been termed one of the \"unsung forefathers\" of the 442nd Regimental Combat Team, an all-Nisei combat unit in the war.\n\nDavis was also instrumental in loosening censorship rules that forbade the publication of images of dead GIs on the battlefield. Until late 1943, the U.S. Office of Censorship only permitted the media to publish images of blanket-covered bodies and flag-draped coffins of dead U.S. soldiers, partly for fear that Americans would be demoralized if they had any graphic understanding of the human price being paid in the war. The government also restricted what reporters could write, and coverage was generally upbeat and bloodless.\n\nDavis believed that the American public \"had a right to be truthfully informed\" about the war within the dictates of military security. He asked President Roosevelt to lift the ban on publishing photographs of dead GIs on the battlefield on the grounds that the American people needed to appreciate the sacrifices made by their young men. Roosevelt agreed. \"Life\" published a photograph taken by George Strock of three American soldiers who were killed on the beach during the Battle of Buna-Gona, the first photograph published that depicted American soldiers dead on the battlefield. Censorship was loosened, but the media was still forbidden from showing the faces of the dead or the insignia of the units they belonged to.\n\nFollowing the war, Davis continued his career in radio, using the platform to criticize Senator Joseph McCarthy for his anti-communist investigations.\n\nDavis was one of the four journalists who portrayed themselves in the 1951 film \"The Day the Earth Stood Still\", and he was the host and narrator of the ABC television series, \"Pulitzer Prize Playhouse\" (1950–52), which won a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series.\n\nHe was a longstanding member of The Baker Street Irregulars, the literary society dedicated to keeping green the memory of Sherlock Holmes.\n\nOn June 29, 1952, the \"Washington Post\" published a two-page essay by Davis, which he opened by questioning \"how long will these former Communists and former sympathizers abuse the patience of the vast majority which had sense enough never to be Communists in the first place?\" He cited their \"arrogance\" as the most \"irritating thing\" about them. he specifically mentioned Whittaker Chambers, who at that time were testifying before the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee.\n\nDavis retired from broadcasting in 1953 after suffering a heart attack.\n\nDavis died in May 1958 of complications from a stroke.\n\nDavis was considered to be one of the greatest news reporters of the mid-20th century, on a level with Edward R. Murrow. Among the many awards Davis received were three Peabody Awards, including an award during its inaugural year. Foreign governments also recognized Davis when he was inducted into the Dutch Order of Orange-Nassau and the Czechoslovak Order of the White Lion, among others.\n\nIn 1946, Davis received the Alfred I. duPont Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "11754346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11754346", "title": "Farm to School", "text": "Farm to School\n\nFarm to School is a program in the United States through which schools buy and feature locally produced, farm-fresh foods such as fruits and vegetables, eggs, honey, meat, and beans on their menus. Schools also incorporate nutrition-based curriculum and provide students with experiential learning opportunities such as farm visits, garden-based learning, and recycling programs. As a result of Farm to School, students have access to fresh, local foods, and farmers have access to new markets through school sales. Farmers are also able to participate in programs designed to educate kids about local food and agriculture.\n\nCurrently, school lunches are generally designed according to the guidelines put out by the USDA National School Lunch Program (NSLP). More than half of US children participate daily, which translates to approximately 28 million lunches distributed per day. The nutritional guidelines for the NSLP lunches are based on \"Dietary Recommendations for Americans\" composed by the Institute of Medicine. Its requirements are that a school lunch includes one third of the RDA of calories, vitamins A and C, calcium and iron, and protein. Additionally, the lunch should contain no more than 30% of the total calories from fat, and no more than 10% from saturated fat. The guidelines provide unclear recommendations on fruit, vegetable, whole grain, sodium content. In general, the guidelines leave room for interpretation and do not always lead to the creation of health meals. For example, in several schools pizza counts as a vegetable due to its tomato sauce.\n\nAnother issue facing schools is the prevalence of other sources of food and snacks, which often make the problem of school lunch nutrition worse. One such source is called “commodity foods” which are free or low cost foods subsidized by the USDA. Of the subsidy money, 73% goes to buy meat and dairy, whereas less than 1% goes to subsidize fruits and vegetables. Schools also may receive “bonus foods,” which are free surplus foods from farms or large-scale agriculture, which also are not typically healthy options for children. Most concerning is the widespread use of “competitive foods,” a term describing foods and snacks offered outside of the auspices of the NSLP. Competitive food includes such items as vending machines (which usually contain high-calorie sugary drinks and sodas, as well as other junk foods), snack bars, and pizza or bake sales.\n\nSchool lunch nutrition is of particular importance currently due to the emerging childhood obesity epidemic. Using the definition of obesity as having a BMI-for-age of greater than the 85th percentile, approximately 31.7% of American children qualify as being overweight, whereas 16.9% of US children aged 2 through 19 years meet criteria for being obese (with BMI-for-age greater than the 95th percentile). Unfortunately, this epidemic is worsening with an alarming pace - in school-age children, the rate of obesity has increased since 1980 from 6.5% to 19.6%. Given this growing problem facing our nation’s youth, school lunch nutrition will play a vital role in halting and potentially reversing this concerning trend.\n\nFarm to School provides a model for positively influencing children’s eating habits through school cafeteria improvements, hands-on nutrition education, and community involvement and support. The last decade has witnessed a tremendous spike in nutrition- and health-related diseases in the country, especially those affecting children. In response, there have been numerous initiatives undertaken to combat the growing rates of childhood obesity targeted at changes at the school, community and individual levels. Farm to School is one such initiative, and it also has the added benefits of supporting small farmers, local agriculture, and local economies.\n\nThe National Farm to School Network sprouted in 1996-1997 from the desire to support community-based food systems, strengthen family farms, and improve student health by reducing childhood obesity. In 2004 the National Farm to School Program was officially authorized, and included 400 programs in 22 states. Additionally, the 2011 White House Task Force Report on Childhood Obesity recognized Farm to School as a strategy for obesity prevention.\n\nFarm to School Timeline:\n\n\nThe National Farm to School Network (NFSN), established in 2007, began as a collaborative of the Urban & Environmental Policy Institute, Occidental College and the Community Food Security Coalition (CFSC). In late 2011, it was decided that the National Farm to School Network had outgrown its original home and it became its own organization under the fiscal sponsorship of the Tides Center. The National Farm to School Network is as an information, advocacy and networking hub for communities working to bring local food sourcing, school gardens and food and agriculture education into schools and early care and education settings. NFSN includes all 50 states, Washington D.C., Native Communities, and the U.S. Territories; all are represented by Core and Supporting partners. \n\nThe Network’s six main priority areas are: \n\nThe Farm to School approach helps children understand where their food comes from and how their food choices impact their bodies, the environment and their communities at large.\n\nPotential benefits of the program for communities, schools, farmers and children include:\n$0.60-$2.16 of local economic activity \n\nRecent studies conducted by Beery et al. demonstrated additional, unexpected benefits from programs similar to Farm to School, as illustrated by the following quotes:\n\nMultiple studies have looked at the environmental impact of conventional agriculture versus the local food movement. These studies show that there is not yet a consistent methodology for measuring energy consumption in local versus non-local farms. “Local” is not a clearly defined measurement, and by only examining the energy in terms of “food miles” versus an entire life cycle assessment (LCA), much of the research on local farming is missing key components of the farm-to-consumer process, and the energy consumption involved. For example, despite the amount of greenhouse gases emitted from transporting farm foods to consumers, agricultural soils are also responsible for releasing significant amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere (Schlesinger).\nThe life cycle assessment attempts to measure the impacts of each activity directly or indirectly involved in the production, transport, storage, retail, consumption and disposal of a particular food from “farm to fork” or “farm to waste”. Studies that examine the LCA still show that there is no clear conclusion on the environmental impact of local versus non-local agriculture. A study in Sweden that examined bread production using local flour versus flour from other regions in Sweden found that the smaller scale of local farms results in less energy efficiency5. Another study supports this argument that global food systems have better energy efficiency due to the size of production, the so-called “ecology-of-scale”. Both of these studies are countered by other studies that found lower emissions on small scale bread making facilities, contesting the accuracy of the measurements in the Schilich and Fleissner study. These studies show the inherent variation in farming production, which leads to varying levels of impact on the environment. \nOther environmental assessments of farming production methods include:\n\nSeveral organizations promoting sustainable agriculture methods have been created on a national and international scale in response to growing concerns about the impact of current farming production methods on the environment, the economy, human health, and animal health combined.\n\nThere is a widespread perception that serving healthier meals in schools and doing away with serving typical vending foods such as chips, sodas, and sweets will decrease the financial viability of the school lunch program (CDC). A growing body of evidence indicates that this concern may not be warranted. Though there may be an initial decrease in revenue, most schools have reported an increase or no change in revenue after implementing strong nutrition standards and restricting the sale of unhealthy a la carte foods in pilot studies (CDC). This seems to be due to an increase in school lunch program participation. Additionally, vending contracts are not a significant source of funding for most schools and can in most cases be eliminated without significant financial loss. A la carte foods from vending machines may simply compete with the school lunch program. Stronger restrictions or even eliminating these competing options are most likely to increase participation in the school lunch programs which generally include the healthiest food options.\n\nAdvocates of farm to school argue that it will have a beneficial effect on the regional economy but there are few comprehensive analyses that have evaluated this. At least one analysis evaluated the potential economic impact of farm to school programs for an entire region (Central Minnesota) in a comprehensive manner. The investigators empirically developed a realistic set of potential foods to include in farm-to-school lunch programs in the region. Their analysis took into account the impact on output as well as employment and labor income in the regions. Depending on the price paid for the farm foods and how often the farm foods are utilized in school lunches, the regional economic impact ranged from $20,000 to almost $500,000 in their analysis.\n\nThough initial pilot studies and economic analyses provide hope that farm-to-school programs are financially viable options for schools and can also be beneficial to local economies, this research is in early stages and no longer term controlled studies have been completed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4597367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4597367", "title": "Food fortification", "text": "Food fortification\n\nFood fortification or enrichment is the process of adding micronutrients (essential trace elements and vitamins) to food. Sometimes it's a purely commercial choice to provide extra nutrients in a food, while other times it is a public health policy which aims to reduce the number of people with dietary deficiencies within a population. Staple foods of a region can lack particular nutrients due to the soil of the region or from inherent inadequacy of a normal diet. Addition of micronutrients to staples and condiments can prevent large-scale deficiency diseases in these cases.\n\nAs defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO), fortification refers to \"the practice of deliberately increasing the content of an essential micronutrient, ie. vitamins and minerals (including trace elements) in a food irrespective of whether the nutrients were originally in the food before processing or not, so as to improve the nutritional quality of the food supply and to provide a public health benefit with minimal risk to health\", whereas enrichment is defined as \"synonymous with fortification and refers to the addition of micronutrients to a food which are lost during processing\".\n\nFood fortification was identified as the second strategy of four by the WHO and FAO to begin decreasing the incidence of nutrient deficiencies at the global level. As outlined by the FAO, the most common fortified foods are cereals (and cereal based products), milk (and milk products), fats and oils, accessory food items, tea and other beverages, and infant formulas. Undernutrition and nutrient deficiency is estimated globally to cause between 3 and 5 million deaths per year.\n\nMain methods of food fortification:\n\nThe WHO and FAO, among many other nationally recognized organizations, have recognized that there are over 2 billion people worldwide who suffer from a variety of micronutrient deficiencies. In 1992, 159 countries pledged at the FAO/WHO International Conference on Nutrition to make efforts to help combat these issues of micronutrient deficiencies, highlighting the importance of decreasing the number of those with iodine, vitamin A, and iron deficiencies. A significant statistic that led to these efforts was the discovery that approximately 1 in 3 people worldwide were at risk for either an iodine, vitamin A, or iron deficiency. Although it is recognized that food fortification alone will not combat this deficiency, it is a step towards reducing the prevalence of these deficiencies and their associated health conditions.\n\nIn Canada, the Food and Drug Regulations have outlined specific criterion which justifies food fortification:\n\nThere are also several advantages to approaching nutrient deficiencies among populations via food fortification as opposed to other methods. These may include, but are not limited to: treating a population without specific dietary interventions therefore not requiring a change in dietary patterns, continuous delivery of the nutrient, does not require individual compliance, and potential to maintain nutrient stores more efficiently if consumed on a regular basis.\n\nSeveral organizations such as the WHO, FAO, Health Canada, and Nestlé Research acknowledge that there are limitations to food fortification. Within the discussion of nutrient deficiencies the topic of nutrient toxicities can also be immediately questioned. Fortification of nutrients in foods may deliver toxic amounts of nutrients to an individual and also cause its associated side effects. As seen with the case of excessive fluoride intakes below, the result can be irreversible staining to the teeth. Although this may be a minor toxic effect to health, there are several that are more severe.\n\nThe WHO states that limitations to food fortification may include: human rights issues indicating that consumers have the right to choose if they want fortified products or not, the potential for insufficient demand of the fortified product, increased production costs leading to increased retail costs, the potential that \nthe fortified products will still not be a solution to nutrient deficiencies amongst low income populations who may not be able to afford the new product, and children who may not be able to consume adequate amounts thereof.\n\nFood safety worries led to legislation in Denmark in 2004 restricting foods fortified with extra vitamins or minerals. Products banned include: Rice Crispies, Shreddies, Horlicks, Ovaltine and Marmite.\n\nOne factor that limits the benefits of food fortification is that isolated nutrients added back into a processed food that has had many of its nutrients removed, does not always result in the added nutrients being as bioavailable as they would be in the original, whole food. An example is skim milk that has had the fat removed, and then had vitamin A and vitamin D added back. Vitamins A and D are both fat-soluble and non-water-soluble, so a person consuming skim milk in the absence of fats may not be able to absorb as much of these vitamins as one would be able to absorb from drinking whole milk. On the other hand, the nutrient added as a fortificant may have a higher bioavailability than from foods, which is the case with folic acid used to increase folate intakes.\n\nPhytochemicals such as phytic acid in cereal grains can also impact nutrient absorption, limiting the bioavailability of intrinsic and additional nutrients, and reducing the effectiveness of fortification programs.\n\nEcological studies have shown that increased B vitamin fortification is correlated with the prevalence of obesity and diabetes. Daily consumption of iron per capita in the United States has dramatically surged since World War II and nearly doubled over the past century due to increases in iron fortification and increased consumption of meat. Existing evidence suggests that excess iron intake may play a role in the development of obesity, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancer.\n\nFortification of foods with folic acid has been mandated in many countries solely to improve the folate status of pregnant women to prevent neural tube defects—a birth defect which affected 0.5% (1 out of 200) US births before fortification began. However, when fortification is introduced, several hundred thousand people are exposed to an increased intake of folic acid for each neural tube defect pregnancy that is prevented. In humans, increased folic acid intake leads to elevated blood concentrations of naturally occurring folates and of unmetabolized folic acid. High blood concentrations of folic acid may decrease natural killer cell cytotoxicity, and high folate status may reduce the response to drugs used to treat malaria, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, and cancer. A combination of high folate levels and low vitamin B-12 status may be associated with an increased risk of cognitive impairment and anemia in the elderly and, in pregnant women, with an increased risk of insulin resistance and obesity in their children. Folate has a dual effect on cancer, protecting against cancer initiation but facilitating progression and growth of preneoplastic cells and subclinical cancers. Furthermore, intake of folic acid from fortification have turned out to be significantly greater than originally modeled in pre mandate predictions. Therefore, a high folic acid intake due to fortification may be harmful for more people than the policy is designed to help.\n\nThere is a concern that micronutrients are legally defined in such a way that does not distinguish between different forms, and that fortified foods often have nutrients in a balance that would not occur naturally. For example, in the U.S., food is fortified with folic acid, which is one of the many naturally-occurring forms of folate, and which only contributes a minor amount to the folates occurring in natural foods. In many cases, such as with folate, it is an open question of whether or not there are any benefits or risks to consuming folic acid in this form.\n\nIn many cases, the micronutrients added to foods in fortification are synthetic.\n\nIn some cases, certain forms of micronutrients can be actively toxic in a sufficiently high dose, even if other forms are safe at the same or much higher doses. There are examples of such toxicity in both synthetic and naturally-occurring forms of vitamins. Retinol, the active form of Vitamin A, is toxic in a much lower dose than other forms, such as beta carotene. Menadione, a phased-out synthetic form of Vitamin K, is also known to be toxic.\n\nThere are several main groups of food supplements like:\n\nMany foods and beverages worldwide have been fortified, whether a voluntary action by the product developers or by law. Although some may view these additions as strategic marketing schemes to sell their product, there is a lot of work that must go into a product before simply fortifying it. In order to fortify a product, it must first be proven that the addition of this vitamin or mineral is beneficial to health, safe, and an effective method of delivery. The addition must also abide by all food and labeling regulations and support nutritional rationale. From a food developer's point of view, they also need to consider the costs associated with this new product and whether or not there will be a market to support the change.\n\nExamples of foods and beverages that have been fortified and shown to have positive health effects:\n\n\"Iodine deficiency disorder (IDD) is the single greatest cause of preventable mental retardation. Severe deficiencies cause cretinism, stillbirth and miscarriage. But even mild deficiency can significantly affect the learning ability of populations. […] Today over 1 billion people in the world suffer from iodine deficiency, and 38 million babies born every year are not protected from brain damage due to IDD.\"—Kul Gautam, Deputy Executive Director, UNICEF, October 2007\n\nIodised salt has been used in the United States since before World War II. It was discovered in 1821 that goiters could be treated by the use of iodized salts. However, it was not until 1916 that the use of iodized salts could be tested in a research trial as a preventative measure against goiters. By 1924, it became readily available in the US. Currently in Canada and the US, the RDA for iodine is as low as 90 µg/day for children (4–8 years) and as high as 290 µg/day for breast-feeding mothers.\n\nDiseases that are associated with an iodine deficiency include: mental retardation, hypothyroidism, and goiter. There is also a risk of various other growth and developmental abnormalities.\n\nFolic acid (also known as folate) functions in reducing blood homocysteine levels, forming red blood cells, proper growth and division of cells, and preventing neural tube defects (NTDs). In many industrialized countries, the addition of folic acid to flour has prevented a significant number of NTDs in infants. Two common types of NTDs, spina bifida and anencephaly, affect approximately 2500-3000 infants born in the US annually. Research trials have shown the ability to reduce the incidence of NTDs by supplementing pregnant mothers with folic acid by 72%.\n\nThe RDA for folic acid ranges from as low as 150 μg/day for children aged 1–3 years old, to 400 μg/day for males and females over the age of 19, and 600 μg/day during pregnancy. Diseases associated with folic acid deficiency include: megaloblastic or macrocytic anemia, cardiovascular disease, certain types of cancer, and NTDs in infants.\n\nNiacin has been added to bread in the USA since 1938 (when voluntary addition started), a programme which substantially reduced the incidence of pellagra. As early as 1755, pellagra was recognized by doctors as being a niacin deficiency disease. Although not officially receiving its name of pellagra until 1771. Pellagra was seen amongst poor families who used corn as their main dietary staple. Although corn itself does contain niacin, it is not a bioavailable form unless it undergoes nixtamalization (treatment with alkali, traditional in Native American cultures) and therefore was not contributing to the overall intake of niacin.\n\nThe RDA for niacin is 2 mg NE(niacin equivalents)/day (AI) for infants aged 0–6 months, 16 mg NE/day for males, and 14 mg NE/day for females who are over the age of 19.\n\nDiseases associated with niacin deficiency include: Pellagra which consisted of signs and symptoms called the 3D's-\"Dermatitis, dementia, and diarrhea. Others may include vascular or gastrointestinal diseases. Common diseases which present a high frequency of niacin deficiency: alcoholism, anorexia nervosa, HIV infection, gastrectomy, malabsorptive disorders, certain cancers and their associated treatments.\n\nSince Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin, it cannot be added to a wide variety of foods. Foods that it is commonly added to are margarine, vegetable oils and dairy products. During the late 1800s, after the discovery of curing conditions of scurvy and beriberi had occurred, researchers were aiming to see if the disease, later known as rickets, could also be cured by food. Their results showed that sunlight exposure and cod liver oil were the cure. It was not until the 1930s that vitamin D was actually linked to curing rickets. This discovery led to the fortification of common foods such as milk, margarine, and breakfast cereals. This took the astonishing statistics of approximately 80–90% of children showing varying degrees of bone deformations due to vitamin D deficiency to being a very rare condition.\n\nThe current RDA for infants aged 0–6 months is 10 µg (400 International Units (IU))/day and for adults over 19 years of age it is 15 µg (600 IU)/day.\n\nDiseases associated with a vitamin D deficiency include rickets, osteoporosis, and certain types of cancer (breast, prostate, colon and ovaries). It has also been associated with increased risks for fractures, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, autoimmune and infectious diseases, asthma and other wheezing disorders, myocardial infarction, hypertension, congestive heart failure, and peripheral vascular disease.\n\nAlthough fluoride is not considered an essential mineral, it is useful in prevention of tooth decay and maintaining adequate dental health. In the mid-1900s it was discovered that towns with a high level of fluoride in their water supply was causing the residents' teeth to have both brown spotting and a strange resistance to dental caries. This led to the fortification of water supplies with fluoride in safe amounts (or reduction of naturally-occurring levels) to retain the properties of resistance to dental caries but avoid the staining cause by fluorosis (a condition caused by excessive fluoride intake).\nThe tolerable upper intake level (UL) set for fluoride ranges from 0.7 mg/day for infants aged 0–6 months and 10 mg/day for adults over the age of 19.\n\nConditions commonly associated with fluoride deficiency are dental caries and osteoporosis.\n\nSome other examples of fortified foods:\n\n"}
{"id": "7862127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7862127", "title": "Gold Bar Recruiter", "text": "Gold Bar Recruiter\n\nIn the United States Army and United States Air Force, a Gold Bar Recruiter (GBR) is a newly-commissioned second lieutenant who has been ordered to active duty on permissive Temporary Duty (PTDY) orders to assist the Professor of Military Science (or Aerospace Science, as applicable) and the Recruiting Operations Officer (ROO) with training and recruiting duties. \n\nThis position typically begins 60 to 140 days before the BOLC B report date. A Gold Bar Recruiter adds a new perspective and energy to an ROTC battalion because of their recent familiarity with high school, college, and cadet life. If a \"Gold-Bar\" is in the National Guard, he/she may request extensions of their tour for up to 180 days providing their National Guard unit is willing to allow such an extension. Active duty officers may not receive such an extension, as their position at BOLC have already been reserved through their active duty units.\n\n\"Gold Bar\" refers to the insignia of a second lieutenant in the United States Armed Forces: . The analogous position for the United States Navy and United States Marine Corps is Permissive Temporary Additional Duty (PTAD). \n\n"}
{"id": "2156625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156625", "title": "Hypodescent", "text": "Hypodescent\n\nIn societies that regard some races or ethnic groups of people as dominant or superior and others as subordinate or inferior, hypodescent refers to the automatic assignment by the dominant culture of children of a mixed union or sexual relations between members of different socioeconomic groups or ethnic groups to the subordinate group. The opposite practice is hyperdescent, in which children are assigned to the race that is considered dominant or superior.\n\nParallel practices include patrilineality, matrilineality and cognatic descent, which assign race according to the father, mother, or some combination, without regard to the race of the other parent. These systems may not be mutually exclusive with hypo- and hyper-descent, since either parent (or both) might be of mixed race.\n\nAttempts to limit (or eliminate) mixed-race populations by legal means are defined in anti-miscegenation laws, such as passed by various states in the United States.\n\nWhile customs, practices and systems of belief emphasizing the value of purity of descent are arguably as old as mankind, few societies systematically codified them, or legally enforced their outcome. Practices were enforced in communities. Such was the case in classical Greece – which made clear distinctions between Greeks and Barbarians. The Roman Republic had a different pattern. While it was expansionist, and militarily and culturally aggressive, it actively encouraged the Romanisation of client kingdoms, which included intermarriage of Romans with their elite citizens and making this class citizens of Rome as reward and as exemplars.\n\nThe North American practice of applying a rule of hypodescent began during colonial times when indentured servants and transported convicts working at the direction of the colonists and colonial authorities were joined by Africans that from 1619 on were first taken first from Spanish and then more and more from English or British slave ships. But while the freed captives were Christians, these individuals were classified as indentured workers.\n\nVirginia formally enacted a 'slave code' in 1705. There is documentary evidence from the 1650s that some Virginia Negroes were serving lifelong terms of indenture. In the 1660s the Assembly stated that \"any English servant that shall run away in company with any Negroes who are incapable of making satisfaction by addition of time shall serve for the time of the said Negroes absence\", indicating Negroes could not 'make satisfaction' by serving longer if recaptured. This device gave legal status to the practice of lifetime enslavement of persons of African descent; in subsequent statutes the legislature defined conditions of lifetime servitude. \n\nBut in 1655 Elizabeth Key, a mixed-race woman, fought and won the first freedom suit in Virginia. Her English father had acknowledged her as his daughter, had her baptised as Christian, and, falling ill, established a legal guardian to care for her after his death, arranging a limited-term indenture for her as a girl. But the guardian sold her indenture and left the colony, and the next master did not free her. When he died, his estate claimed her and her son as slave property.\n\nHowever, following Key's victory, Virginia established the principle in law in 1662 of \"partus sequitur ventrem\", from Roman law; that is, children born in the colonies would take the social status of their mothers. This meant that all children born to enslaved women would be born into slavery, regardless of their paternity and race. This was in contrast to English common law, by which the status of children of English subjects was determined by the father. \n\nAs slavery became a racial caste system, persons of only partial African ancestry and majority European ancestry were born into slavery. African descent became associated with slavery. By hypodescent, persons of even partial African ancestry were classified socially below whites. By the late 18th century, there were numerous families of majority-white slaves, such as the mixed-race children born to the slave Sally Hemings and her master Thomas Jefferson. She was three-quarters white and the half-sister of his late wife; their children, born into slavery, were seven-eighths white. Jefferson gave the four surviving children their freedom as adults; three assimilated into white society. \n\nThe Southern author Mary Chesnut wrote in her famous \"A Diary from Dixie\", of the Civil War-era, about the hypocrisy of a man's recognizing white women's children among the slaves in every household but his own.\n\nFanny Kemble, the British actress who married an American slaveholder, wrote about her observations of slavery as well, including the way white men sexually abused slave women and left their mixed-race children enslaved.\n\nSometimes the white fathers freed the children and/or their mothers, or provided education or apprenticeship, or settled property on them in a significant transfer of social capital. Notable antebellum examples of fathers who provided for their mixed-race children were the fathers of Charles Henry Langston and John Mercer Langston and the father of the Healy family of Georgia. (Each had a common-law marriage with a woman of partial African descent.) Other mixed-race children were left enslaved; some were sold away by their fathers.\n\nResearch by historians and genealogists has shown that unlike the above examples, most free African Americans listed in the first two US censuses in the Upper South were descended from relationships or marriages in colonial Virginia between white women, indentured servant or free, and African or African-American men, indentured servant, free or slave. Their unions reflected the fluid nature of relationships among the working classes before slave caste was hardened, as well as the small households and farms within which many people worked. The children of white mothers were born free. If they were illegitimate and mixed race, they were apprenticed in order to avoid the community being burdened with upkeep, but such persons gained a step in freedom. \n\nBy the turn of the nineteenth century, many of these families of free African Americans, along with European-American neighbors, migrated to frontier areas of Virginia, North Carolina, and then further west. Such families sometimes settled in insular groups. Mixed-race people of African-European descent are believed to have been the origin of some isolated settlements, which have long claimed or were said to be of American Indian or Portuguese ancestry. As an example, a 21st-century DNA study of a group of Melungeon families in Tennessee and Kentucky, long rumored to be descendants of Turks or Native Americans, showed they were overwhelmingly of African and European ancestry.\n\nBy the late 1870s, conservative white Democrats regained power in state legislatures across the South, even in areas where there were black majorities, largely by a process of violence and intimidation of black Republicans. The Democrats gradually imposed white supremacy in law and practice. From 1890 to 1908, beginning with Mississippi, the state legislatures passed new constitutions and laws that created barriers to voter registration by such means as the poll tax, literacy tests, record requirements and others. The number of voters on the rolls fell drastically and most blacks and many poor whites were disenfranchised for decades. The whites also passed Jim Crow laws, such as racial segregation of public facilities. \n\nAfrican Americans and whites established the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in 1909 to fight against legal discrimination and disenfranchisement. Each time they won a court case, for instance, against the use of white primaries, white-dominated legislatures would pass new laws to exclude blacks from the political system.\n\nIn the 20th century, under influences of eugenics and racial discrimination, states enacted laws classifying persons as black who had any traceable evidence (or perception of any African ancestry). Under Virginia's Racial Integrity Act of 1924, the 'One-drop' rule defined as black a person with \"any\" known African ancestry, regardless of the number of intervening generations.\n\nThe same Act established a binary classification system for vital records, classifying persons as 'white' or 'black' (Negro at the time). The latter was effectively a 'catch all' term for all people of color. Native Americans were classified as colored, l attitude to \"all\" races other than white.\n\nIn its most extreme form in the United States, hypodescent was the basis of the \"one drop rule\", meaning that if an individual had any black ancestry, the person was classified as black. Laws were passed in southern states and others in the early 20th century, long after the end of slavery to define white and black, under associated laws for segregation: Tennessee adopted such a \"one-drop\" statute in 1910; Louisiana; Texas; Arkansas in 1911; Mississippi in 1917; North Carolina in 1923; Virginia in 1924; Alabama and Georgia in 1927; and Oklahoma in 1931.\n\nDuring this same period, Florida, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, and Utah retained their old \"blood fraction\" statutes \"de jure\", but amended these fractions (one-sixteenth, one-thirtysecond) to be equivalent to one-drop \"de facto.\"\n\nBy 1924 many \"white\" people in Virginia would have had some African and/or Native American ancestry, given the mixing over the centuries. At the same time that Virginia was trying to harden racial caste, African Americans were organizing to overturn segregation and regain civil rights, that had been lost to Jim Crow laws and disfranchisement of the majority of the black community.\n\nBy the early 1940s, of the thirty U.S. states that had anti-miscegenation laws, seven states (Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, Montana, Oklahoma, Texas, and Virginia) had adopted the one-drop theory for rules prohibiting interracial marriages. This was part of a continuing social hardening of racial lines after the turn of the century, when southern states imposed legal segregation and disfranchised African Americans.\n\nOther states applied the hypodescent rule without carrying it to the \"one-drop\" extreme, using instead a blood quantum standard. For example, Utah's anti-miscegenation law prohibited marriage between a white and anyone considered a negro, mulatto, quadroon (one-fourth black), octoroon (one-eighth black), Mongolian, or member of \"the Malay race\" (here referring to Filipinos). No restrictions were placed on marriages between people who were not \"white persons\". The law was repealed in 1963.\n\nIn the United States, hypodescent has often defined children of mixed-race couples as black when one parents is classified as \"black\", or either is thought to have African descent. That practice seems to be diminishing. \n\nPresident of the United States Barack Obama is often referred to as the first Black or African-American President. He has said as a youth that he chose to identify as black and worked in community organizing in a black community. His mother and her parents were of European descent; his father and his family are sub-Saharan African from Kenya. But, in a case exemplifying the complex racial history of the United States, Obama is believed to be descended through his maternal line from John Punch, the first African documented historically as a slave in Virginia.\n\nThe genealogical company Ancestry.com sponsored a study of his family history and documented this connection. Punch's descendants increasingly married white and are believed to have been accepted as white by the early 18th century.\n\nSince the 1960s particularly and the rise of the Black Power movement, many members of the African-American community have emphasized that mixed-race individuals of African descent should identify as black in order to maximize their political power as a group in the United States. Leaders say they were historically discriminated against as black by whites, so should identify as black to assert their power in number. \n\nIn the US, people have historically less consistently apply hypodescent in intermarriage between whites and persons of other racial groups, such as Native Americans, and Asians. There was certainly discrimination against persons of mixed European and Native American, and European and Asian ancestry, however. \n\nBut hypodescent is not practiced only by persons of European ancestry. In Omaha, Nebraska, whites have celebrated Logan Fontenelle, a mixed-race man of the late 19th century who served as interpreter for a major treaty between the Omaha Nation and the United States that ceded most of their land before they moved to a reservation. Whites referred to Fontenell as chief of the Omaha, and he was one of the signatories of the treaty along with Omaha chiefs, perhaps because he spoke English. Whites named various places in the city of Omaha after Fontenelle. \n\nBut among the Omaha, Fontenelle was considered a \"white man\" because his father was white, and he was never recognized as a recognized chief. As the Omaha had a patrilineal kinship society, hereditary chieftainship and descent were passed through the male line. A person whose father was white was not considered Omaha unless he was formally adopted by a male Omaha member.\n\nEvolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins, in \"\" (2004), observes in passing that in the United States and Great Britain, societies have developed something like \"genetic dominance\" in our use of language to identify children from mixed-race unions. He notes first, that people seem to be eager to embrace racial classification, even when talking about people of obviously mixed parentage; and second, that we tend not to describe people as of mixed race. Mixed-race children of European-African unions tend to be identified as \"black\", in what Dawkins calls a \"cultural or memetic dominant\". He opines that this may be a cross-cultural practice with a biological basis; that perhaps humans are genetically wired to recognize and differentiate among minor superficial differences. This is in contrast to what humans share in the \"unusually high level of genetic uniformity in the human species\" (compared to for example, chimpanzee subspecies). Scholars speculate about the evolutionary purpose of such differentiation served; it may have contributed to group solidarity when social groups were small tribes of hunter gatherers, lived further apart in different regions, and were divided by many cultural factors. He suggests that such differentiation may be an \"information-rich way to classify people\".\n\nBoth African-American and white authors have explored issues related to mixed race and hypodescent in fiction and non-fiction.\n\nIn the novel \"Pudd'nhead Wilson\", by Mark Twain, the character of the enslaved woman Roxy is described as \"Negro\", although she has considerable white ancestry and could pass for white. Her son is born into slavery and is 1/32 part black. He is mistakenly switched in infancy with the white son of the master's household, and each grows up to fulfill his social role. \n\nThe US late-19th century author Charles Chesnutt, who grew up free in Ohio and was of mixed African-European ancestry, wrote numerous stories set in the post-Civil War South. He explored the issues encountered by persons of mixed race, in some cases relating what became known as the tragic mulatto genre. \n\n\"Passing\" is a 1929 novel by Nella Larsen, dealing with mixed-race African-American women who choose alternate paths for marriage and identity.\n\nIn the musical \"Show Boat\" (1927), a white man is married to a mixed-race woman passing for white. He is accused by the sheriff of violating the state's anti-miscegenation laws. The white man pricks his wife's finger with a knife, swallows a drop of blood, then tells the sheriff \"I'm no white man – I've got negro blood in me.\" The sheriff lets him off.\n\nSinclair Lewis's novel \"Kingsblood Royal\" uses hypodescent and the \"one drop\" principle as principal plot elements.\n\nNumerous memoirs have been published by African Americans who explore growing up as mixed race with a white parent, such as \"\" by James McBride. Bliss Broyard, in \"\", wrote about her father Anatole Broyard's decision to live and work as a writer, rather than a black writer, largely separating from his mixed-race, Louisiana Creole family. He married a white woman of Swedish descent and their children appear white.\n\nIn his self-published book \"Hypodescent - Discovering You Are Not Black: A Memoir\" (2010), Logan Allerton, adopted as an infant, describes being classified at birth as African American because of his darker skin. He was adopted and raised by an African-American family in Chicago, where he was often questioned as a child about his ethnic identity. Later in life, based on research and DNA testing, he learned that his biological ancestry was European.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51353939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51353939", "title": "Insurance in Iraq", "text": "Insurance in Iraq\n\nInsurance in Iraq refers to the insurance industry in Iraq and charts its history from the Babylonians of Mesopotamia through to the present day, by highlighting key events (such as the signing of treaties and laws), people and companies that influenced its formation and current shape.\n\nMechanisms for dealing with risk in Iraq can be traced to the ancient Babylonians and the Code of Hammurabi. This established a system of bottomry (whereby the ship master would take a loan and then use the ship itself as collateral against it) and is seen as an early form of merchant and marine insurance dating back to around 1772 BCE.\n\nTwo pieces of legislation are noteworthy during this period, firstly the Ottoman Commercial Law (9 August 1904), followed by the supplementary Ottoman Insurance Companies Act (1905). Despite these, there is no evidence to suggest commercial, institutional insurance activity was known in Iraq until at least after the Anglo-Iraqi Treaty of October 1922. Indeed, by 1928 only 3 insurance companies were known to be operating in Iraq, under the Ottoman laws, one of which was the General Accident Fire and Life Assurance Corporation (now Aviva Insurance Ltd.).\n\nThe Insurance Companies Act was brought into effect on 1 April 1936. It was the first Iraqi law passed to specifically regulate the industry. Egypt's Al-Chark Insurance Company (part of Misr Insurance since 2007) was the first to set up an agency in Transjordan towards the end of the 1940s and was one of the first in Iraq under the 1936 law, where Edward Fram acted as their first representative. Other insurance pioneers at this time included Shafiq Ades and Andrew Weir, 1st Baron Inverforth\n\nIn 1960, the introduction of the Insurance Firms and Agents Law No. 49 replaced the aforementioned law of 1936. By the time of the nationalisation of the industry in 1964, there were still just 15 branches and agencies of regional (Arab) and foreign insurance companies across Iraq. These included the following:\n\n\nIn 1966, two years after the nationalisation was completed, Clement Shammas was appointed by Iraq’s then Prime Minister Abdul Rahman al-Bazzaz as the head of the newly formed Iraqi Insurance Organisation (abolished in 1988). Under the Baath Party in 1997, Law No. 49 (1960) was itself repealed handing the Iraqi Ministry of Finance the authority to oversee all insurance and reinsurance activities in Iraq. At this time, private insurance companies were also allowed to form and the first such company, Dar Al-Salam Insurance Co, was established in 2000 \n\nThe current legislation is the Insurance Business Regulation Law (2005) drafted under the guidance of USAID/BearingPoint Inc. It is difficult to get an accurate estimate of the size of the current industry in Iraq, but using gross written premiums as a guide, the 2013 figure was in the region of $300–480million (with $240–400 million from state-owned companies and $60–80 million from privately owned ones).\n"}
{"id": "55715531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55715531", "title": "International Conference on Supporting Palestine Intifada", "text": "International Conference on Supporting Palestine Intifada\n\nThe international conference on supporting Palestine Intifada is regarded as an international conference which is held in Iran in opportune times. As its main goal, the Islamic Republic of Iran is following different ways to support Palestinians to reach their rights. There are diverse authorities and political activists from different countries of the world who participate in the meeting.\n\nThe Iranian Parliament passed a law as “Supporting Islamic Revolution Of Palestine” in 1990. According to this law, the Islamic Republic of Iran supports oppressed people of Palestine; as well as this, it assigns a task for the boards of the directors of Iranian Parliament to extend its support (in different ways) for Palestinians and to hold conference(s) till Palestinians regain their rights.\n\nThe international conference on supporting Palestine Intifada is continued in opportune times. So far, the conference has been held six times. The first meeting started in October 1991. Then, it held in 2001, 2006, 2009, 2011 and eventually the six meeting as the last conference till now held in February 2017.\n\nThere are diverse authorities/political activists from different countries who participate in the conference. For instance, there were 700 prominent guests from 80 countries of the world who participated in the sixth conference, including Iranian high-ranking officials (e.g., the Supreme leader of Iran as the highest-ranking authority in Iran –Ayatollah Khamenei_ , President Rouhani, the speaker of the Parliament of Iran Ali Larijani, and many other famous authorities from different countries, among:\n\n\nAnd many other prominent authorities.\n\nThe participants in the sixth conference, emphasized on the necessity of further attempt to terminate the occupying Palestine and to be pursued for the unity in Palestine lands, and forming the independent country of Palestine, and al-Quds to be its capital. Meanwhile, this statement rejected the normalization of relationship to Zionism Regime, and asked all countries to break off their relationship to this regime, besides, this statement announced a few other issues, too.\n"}
{"id": "59168024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59168024", "title": "Intersindical-CSC", "text": "Intersindical-CSC\n\nThe Intersindical - Confederació Sindical Catalana (or simply Intersindical-CSC) is a class-based and independentist trade union from Catalonia, founded in 1990. He is a full member of the World Federation of Trade Unions, the second most important international organization of trade unions. At the same time, it is the founder and member of the Council of the Platform of Trade Unions of Nations Without a State. On the other hand, it is an active member of the Federation of Internationally Recognized Catalan Organizations (FOCIR) and participates in several social platforms such as Som Escola, Catalan Board for Peace and Human Rights in Colombia or International Action for Peace. Since April 6, 2013, its Secretary General is Carles Sastre Benlliure.\n\nIn 1985 the Confederació Sindical de Treballadors de Catalunya (CSTC) joined two smaller organizations and the Catalan Trade Union Confederation (CSC) was created. In 1987-88 he was General Secretary Jordi Fayos i López. The union entered into crisis in 1986. In 1987 the CSTC was formally dissolved but a part of its militancy, located on the far left, founded the Coordinadora Obrera Sindical (COS). Between 1987 and 1989, there were various divisions that passed mainly to Workers' Commissions. The 1990 was renamed Intersindical-CSC.\n\nSince 2004, the union was redirected towards left-wing and pro-independence positions. Between 1998 and 2013, the secretary was Isabel Pallarès, and as of 6 April, she was charged until now secretary of union action Carles Sastre.\n\nIn 8 November 2017, the Intersindical-CSC organized, among other pro-independence organizations, a general strike.\n\nThe Intersindical-CSC is a pro-independence and class-based trade union that groups all the productive sectors. It is structured in federations and areas: the Federation of Services, the Federation of Public Administrations, the Federation of Industry, the Federation of Education, the Area of Health, the Youth Space and the Area of International Solidarity.\n\n"}
{"id": "435871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435871", "title": "José Figueres Ferrer", "text": "José Figueres Ferrer\n\nJosé María Hipólito Figueres Ferrer (25 October 1906 – 8 June 1990) served as President of Costa Rica on three occasions: 1948–1949, 1953–1958 and 1970–1974. During his first term in office he abolished the country's army, nationalized its banking sector, and granted women and afrodescendents the right to vote, as well as access to Costarrican nationality to people of African descent. He was a good friend of the Governor of Puerto Rico, Luis Muñoz Marín, praising his political achievements in one of his essays.\n\nFigueres was born on 25 October 1906 in San Ramón in Alajuela province. The locations are significant, according to his best biographer, because his parents came from a world of wide ambition that most Costa Ricans envied, and he was born in a nation that put a high value on his impeccable Spanish background. Figueres was the eldest of the four children of a Catalan doctor and his wife, a teacher, who had recently immigrated from Catalonia to San Ramón in west-central Costa Rica.\n\nFigueres' first language was Catalan, as he talked to his parents in this language.\n\nAfter four years of work and study in the United States, Figueres returned to the country in 1928 and bought a farm in Tarrazú. He named the farm, with a certain degree of foresight, La Lucha sin Fin (the struggle without an end).\n\nFigueres became a successful coffee grower and rope manufacturer, employing more than 1,000 sharecroppers and factory laborers. Describing himself as a \"farmer-socialist\", he built housing and provided medical care and recreation for his workers and established a community vegetable farm and a dairy with free milk for workers' children.\n\nHis sharecroppers could either sell hemp grown on his plantation to him at market price for use in his rope factory, or sell it elsewhere if they were offered a better price.\n\nWhen Figueres returned to Costa Rica in 1944 from being exiled in Mexico, he established the Democratic Party, which a year later transformed into the Social Democratic Party. The party was intended to be a counterweight to the ruling National Republican Party (PRN), led by former President Calderón and his successor Teodoro Picado. The highly controversial Calderón had angered Costa Rican elites, enacting a large social security retirement program and implementing national healthcare. Calderón was accused of corruption by the elites, providing a rallying cry for Figueres and the Social Democratic Party.\n\nFigueres began training the Caribbean Legion, an irregular force of 700. Figueres launched a revolution along with other landowners and student agitators, hoping to overthrow the Costa Rican government. With plans of using Costa Rica as a base, the Legion planned next to remove the three Central American dictators. Washington officials closely watched the Legion's activities, especially after Figueres carried out a series of terrorist attacks inside Costa Rica during 1945 and 1946 that were supposed to climax in a general strike, but the people did not respond.\n\nFormer President Calderón supporters prevented and invalidated the 1 March 1948, presidential election in which Otilio Ulate had allegedly defeated Calderón in his second term bid with fraud. In March–April 1948, the protests over the election results mushroomed into armed conflict, then into revolution. Figueres defeated Communist-led guerrillas and the Costa Rican Army, which had joined forces with President Picado.\n\nWith more than 2,000 dead, the 44-day civil war was the bloodiest event in 20th-century Costa Rican history.\n\nAfter the civil war Figueres became President at the head of a provisional junta known as the \"Junta Fundadora\" (Founding Council) that held power for 18 months. During that time he took several actions:\n\n\n\"In a short time, we decreed 834 reforms that completely changed the physiognomy of the country and brought a deeper and more human revolution than that of Cuba\", Figueres said in a 1981 interview.\n\nOnce Figueres gained control, the legislation he passed regarding social reform for his Second Republic of Costa Rica was not that much different from Calderón's proposals. In fact, it is believed by some historians (such as David LaWare) that Figueres' social reforms were more or less the same as Calderón's Labor Code of 1943, only Figueres had gained the power with which to enact the laws upon the whole country with the complete support of virtually all the country. Both of these leaders' programs were in many cases exactly like the ones Franklin D. Roosevelt passed during the Great Depression that helped lift the US out of its own economic slump and social decline it had faced in the 1930s. Figueres admired what president Franklin D. Roosevelt did, however he noted that \"the price he had to pay to get his programs through was to leave the business community free overseas to set up dictatorships and do whatever they liked...What we need now is an international New Deal, to change the relations between North and South.\"\n\nFigueres stepped down after 18 months, handing his power over to Otilio Ulate, and ever since Costa Ricans have settled their arguments constitutionally.\n\n\"Your hands are not clean to fight communism when you don't fight dictatorships\", Figueres told American interviewers in 1951. \"It seems that the United States is not interested in honest government down here, as long as a government is not communist and pays lip service to democracy.\"\n\nIn 1953, Figueres created the Partido Liberación Nacional (PLN), the most successful party in Costa Rican political history, and was returned to power in the 1953. He has been considered to be the most important political figure in Costa Rica's history.\n\nDuring his various terms in office he nationalized the banking system and contributed to the construction of the Panamerican Highway that goes across Central America. He promoted the private industry sector and stimulated the national industry sector. He succeeded in energizing the country's middle class creating a strong buffer between the upper and lower classes.\n\nWhat most alarmed U.S. officials was Figueres's material and moral support for the Caribbean Legion, even though Figueres had obviously lost interest in the Legion after he gained power. But Figueres still criticized U.S. support for the dictators, going so far as to boycott the 1954 inter-American meeting because it was held in Caracas, where President Marcos Pérez of Venezuela held sway.\n\nFigueres happily cooperated with North American military plans. After the United States established the School of the Americas in the Panama Canal Zone to train Latin American officers in Anti-Communist techniques, more Costa Rican \"police\" graduated from the School between 1950 and 1965 than did officers of any other hemispheric nation except Nicaragua.\n\nThe Republic of China awarded him the \"Shining Star\" in 1955.\n\nIn 1957, an assassination plot by dictator Rafael Trujillo (Dominican Republic) was uncovered.\n\nFigueres's support for the Caribbean Legion nearly cost him his job during this second presidency. Implicated in an invasion of Nicaragua in April 1954 by anti-Somoza exiles linked to the Caribbean Legion, Anastasio Somoza García launched a counter-attack, allowing the exiled former Costa Rica president Rafael Calderón to invade Costa Rica in January 1955.\n\nFigueres had played a dangerous game, but he had also abolished the Costa Rican army, which forced him to appeal to the Organization of American States to protect his country from Somoza's aggression. The OAS, with the concurrence of the U.S. representative, ordered a cease-fire and sent a delegation to Costa Rica for an on-site investigation.\n\nAt that point, Somoza realized that he had to act quickly. He called in his IOU from the CIA. He had permitted the CIA to use Las Mercedes Airport, outside Managua, as a base for its P-47s during the Guatemalan intervention. Now he wanted the planes that were parked there to help him in his feud with Figueres.\n\nOn 15 January, three days after the OAS action, a P-47 Thunderbolt violated Costa Rican airspace and bombed and strafed a number of Costa Rican towns.\n\nFigueres, alarmed by this escalation, pointed out that Costa Rica had no defense against \"modern weapons\" of this kind and again appealed to the OAS. The council of the organization immediately authorized the United States to sell four P-51 Mustang fighters to Costa Rica for a dollar apiece.\n\nThe State Department, responding to pressure from certain U.S. congressmen and sensing an opportunity to improve America's image in Latin America after Guatemala, came to the rescue and preserved the Caribbean's \"lone democrat.\" Its gesture ended the \"invasion\", and the State Department scored one over the CIA. The Nicaraguan dictator withdrew, but not before extracting a commitment from Figueres that he would sever links with the exiles. \n\nIn 1958, during a visit to Caracas, Venezuela, U.S. Vice President Richard Nixon was spat at by anti-American protesters who also disrupted and assaulted Nixon's motorcade, pelting his limousine with rocks, shattering windows, and injuring Venezuela's foreign minister. The event prompted the US Congress to create a special committee to investigate the reasons behind it. Many people were invited to speak before it, including Figueres, who testified as follows (in part) on 9 June 1958:\n\nThe termination of Alliance for Progress funds as well as the collapse of the Central American Common Market, threatened to cripple the country's economy until Figueres discovered a new market by selling 30,000 tons of coffee to the Soviet Union in 1972. Costa Rica then became the only Central American nation to establish diplomatic relations with Moscow. The World Bank and International Monetary Fund also delivered millions of dollars to keep the economy afloat.\n\nWhen opponents of Nicaragua's Gen. Anastasio Somoza Debayle seized a plane in San José in 1971, the 5-foot-3 Figueres stood on the runway and pointed a submachine gun at the cabin until the hijackers surrendered.\n\nHe claimed that he almost ruined a 1973 Central American summit when he twitted five army generals: \"Isn't it odd that all you bastards are generals, and I'm the only civilian, but I'm the only one who's ever fought a war?\"\n\nThe CIA gave Figueres money to publish a political journal, Combate, and to sponsor the founding meeting of the Institute of Political Education in Costa Rica in November 1959. The institute was organized as a training school and a center for political collaboration for political parties of the democratic left, principally from Costa Rica, Cuba (in exile), the Dominican Republic (in exile), Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua (in exile), Panama, Peru, and Venezuela. The CIA concealed its role from most of the participants except Figueres. Its funds passed first to a shell foundation, then to the Kaplan Fund of New York, next to the Institute for International Labor Research (IILR) located in New York, and finally to San José. Socialist leader Norman Thomas headed the IILR. After the CIA connection was revealed, Thomas maintained that he had been unaware of it, but the IILR's treasurer, Sacha Volman, who also became treasurer of the institute in San José, was a CIA agent. The CIA used Volman to monitor the institute, and Cord Meyer collaborated directly with Figueres.\n\nMr. Figueres himself acknowledged in 1981 that he had received help from the Central Intelligence Agency.\n\n\"At the time, I was conspiring against the Latin American dictatorships and wanted help from the United States\", he recalled. \"I was a good friend of Allen Dulles.\"\n\n\"Anyway\", Mr. Figueres went on, \"the C.I.A.'s Cultural Department helped me finance a magazine and some youth conferences here. But I never participated in espionage. I did beg them not to carry out the Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba, which was madness, but they ignored me.\" \n\nCord Meyer came to San José sometime in the summer of 1960. He and Figueres created the Inter-American Democratic Social Movement (INADESMO), which was nothing more than a front. A flier describing the idealistic purpose of INADESMO carried the same post office box as Figueres's personal letterhead. The INADESMO setup enabled Meyer to disburse funds more directly, without having to bother with conduits or the accounting procedures of the institute. For example, INADESMO contributed $10,000 to help finance the First Conference of Popular Parties of Latin America in Lima, Peru, in August 1960.\n\nThe following May, Meyer returned to San José for a more urgent purpose. In the wake of the Bay of Pigs failure, he provided Figueres with INADESMO funds to sponsor a meeting at his estate, 'La Lucha', (12–20 May) between the leaders of the principal Dominican exile movements, Juan Bosch and Horacio Ornes. With Figueres as sponsor, Bosch and Ornes agreed to form a coalition government in anticipation of the overthrow of dictator Rafael Trujillo. As the United States moved to rally the hemisphere against Fidel Castro, Trujillo had become expendable, because the United States needed to demonstrate that it opposed all dictators, not just those on the left.\n\nFor over a year, the CIA had been in contact also with dissidents inside the Dominican Republic who argued that assassination was the only certain way to remove Trujillo. The CIA station in Ciudad Trujillo (now Santo Domingo) had encouraged the dissidents and actually delivered to them three pistols and three carbines \"attendant to their projected efforts to neutralize Trujillo.\" Because the Bay of Pigs failure created an uncertain situation, the United States tried to put the brakes on this operation and refused to pass along additional weapons to the dissidents which the Dominican station already had, specifically M-3 machine guns. The U.S. National Security Council, meeting on 5 May, \"noted the President's view that the United States should not initiate the overthrow of Trujillo before [knowing] what government would succeed him.\"\n\nOn 30 May, Trujillo was ambushed and assassinated. The same \"action group\" with whom the CIA had been in contact and to whom it had delivered pistols and carbines carried out the attack. According to the 1975 report of the Church Committee, there was \"no direct evidence\" that CIA weapons had been used in the assassinations and the effect of the Bosch-Ornes pact upon the events that transpired remains a matter for speculation. Nonetheless, the CIA described its role in \"changing\" the government of the Dominican Republic \"as a 'success' in that it assisted in moving the Dominican Republic from a totalitarian dictatorship to a Western-style democracy.\" Bosch himself was elected president of the Dominican Republic. Sacha Volman followed him there, establishing a new \"research and publication center\" and taking with him the CIA funding that used to go to Figueres in Costa Rica. Though one cannot prove that there was a coordinated link between the external and internal opposition groups, Cord Meyer was in a position to know what both elements were doing.\n\nFigueres also opposed the dictatorial regime in pre-Castro Cuba and went so far as to dispatch a planeload of weapons for Cuban insurgents led by the young Fidel Castro, a member of Caribbean Legion. But soon after the 1959 success of the Cuban Revolution, he and Mr. Figueres had a falling out over the growth of Communist influence on the island. In March, 1959, Figueres was invited to Havana, and during a public speech, he warned Castro about the ideological deviations he had observed in Cuba, and immediately the microphone was taken from him. Figueres supported John F. Kennedy's Alliance for Progress but not the C.I.A.'s clandestine wars with Cuba.\n\nFigueres was stubborn about his blunders, most notably his most controversial decision to grant asylum to Robert Vesco, the fugitive U.S. financier, accused of looting millions of dollars from the Investors Overseas Service, Ltd. (IOS) mutual funds in the 1970s. Mr. Vesco not only had a personal and business relationship with Mr. Figueres but he also made contributions to the campaign coffers of both leading political parties in the 1974 elections. Figueres made it clear, however, that he would not hesitate to extradite Vesco if the United States requested it. Figueres tried to intervene with president Jimmy Carter on Vesco's behalf. In the resulting political uproar in Costa Rica, Figueres' party lost the 1978 presidential election. Mr. Vesco fled Costa Rica after the Presidential elections of 1978 were won by Rodrigo Carazo, who had vowed to expel him. \n\nIn an interview in 1981, Figueres said that Vesco had \"committed many stupidities\" but added:\n\n\"I have always defended asylum and would protect him again if I could because I never abandon my friends. The only thing that pains me is that some friends thought I personally benefitted from Vesco.\"\n\nEarlier, in a 1973 interview, Figueres said that he had been introduced to Vesco in Costa Rica in 1972 and that Vesco had then arranged for the investment of $2.15 million in Sociedad Agricola Industrial San Cristobal, S.A.\n\nThe financially troubled company was founded by Figueres and owned by him and others. It had diverse operations in agriculture and its 3,000 employees made it the fourth largest employer in Costa Rica.\n\nFigueres was well liked and received in many Latin American countries for his center-left ideals. He has been called one of the greatest contributors to the Social Democratic ideology.\n\nAfter the presidency, as an acknowledged elder statesman, Figueres became a roving ambassador for subsequent administrations.\n\nAmericans were shocked by that series of hostile demonstrations during U.S. Vice-President Richard Nixon's \"goodwill\" tour of Latin America in 1958. They climaxed in May in Caracas, Venezuela, where a mob stoned and spat upon the vice president's motorcade and threatened his life. At the invitation of U.S. Representative Charles Porter of Oregon, Figueres (at the time, just out of office) came to Washington to explain what had caused these events.\n\n\"People cannot spit on a foreign policy\", Figueres told a House committee, \"which is what they meant to do.\" Figueres insisted that Latin America supported the United States in the cold war, but he asked, \"If you talk human dignity to Russia, why do you hesitate so much to talk human dignity to the Dominican Republic?\" He testified that the United States must change its policy in Latin America and that it could not sacrifice human rights for \"investments.\"\n\nFigueres backed the leftist Sandinista revolution in neighboring Nicaragua that overthrew dictator Anastasio Somoza Debayle in 1979. He railed against U.S. policy when the United States supported Nicaragua's Contra guerrillas. \n\nA proposal by his supporters for a fourth presidential term in the 1980s was quickly crushed.\n\n\"This is an exemplary little country. We are the example for Latin America\", Figueres told the \"Los Angeles Times\" in a 1986 interview. \"In the next century, maybe everyone will be like us.\"\n\nFigueres married Henrietta Boggs of Alabama in 1942. They had two children, Muni and José Martí, before the marriage ended in divorce in 1952. He later married Karen Olsen Beck of New York. They had four children, José María, Karen Christiana, Mariano and Kirsten. His wife was a member of the country's Legislative Assembly.\n\nHis son, José María Figueres, also served as president from 1994 to 1998. His daughter, Muni Figueres Boggs, is the current Ambassador from Costa Rica to the United States. His other daughter, Christiana Figueres, is a Costa Rican diplomat who served from 2010 to 2016 as the Executive Secretary of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), and is widely considered to be the architect of the Paris Agreement.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4583156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4583156", "title": "Land reform in Egypt", "text": "Land reform in Egypt\n\nThe post-revolution Egyptian Land Reform was an effort to change land ownership practices in Egypt following the 1952 Revolution launched by Gamal Abdel Nasser and the Free Officers Movement.\n\nPrior to the 1952 coup that installed Naguib as President, less than six percent of Egypt's population owned more than 65% of the land in the country, and less than 0.5% of Egyptians owned more than one-third of all fertile land. These major owners had almost autocratic control over the land they owned and charged high rents which averaged 75% of the income generated by the rented land. These high rents coupled with the high interest rates charged by banks plunged many small farmers and peasants into debt. Furthermore, peasants who worked as laborers on farms also suffered, receiving average wages of only eight to fifteen piastres a day.\nThe combination of these circumstances led historian Anouar Abdel Malek to call the pre-reform Egyptian peasantry \"an exploited mass surrounded by hunger, disease and death\". Another historian, Robert Stephens, has compared the state of Egyptian peasants before land reform to that of French peasants before the French Revolution.\n\nOn September 11, 1952, Law Number 178 began the process of land reform in Egypt. The law had numerous provisions that attempted to remedy the Egyptian land problems:\nAdditionally, the law provided for the redistribution of any land that owners held over the limits it established:\n\nLaw 178 initially met opposition from Prime Minister Ali Maher Pasha who supported a limit of 500 feddans for land ownership. However, the Revolutionary Command Council demonstrated its power by forcing him to resign, replacing him with Muhammad Naguib and passing the law.\n\nIn 1958, three provisions of the land reform law were revised:\n\nIn 1961, the government again revised the land reform program by lowering the land ownership maximum to one hundred feddans.\n\nInitially, land reform essentially abolished the political influence of major land owners. However, it only resulted in the redistribution of about 15% of Egypt's land under cultivation, and by the early 1980s, the effects of land reform in Egypt drew to a halt as the population of Egypt moved away from agriculture. The Egyptian land reform laws were greatly curtailed under Anwar Sadat and eventually abolished.\n\n\n\nSpringbord, Robert. Family, Power, and Politics in Egypt, Sayed Bey Marei- his clan, clients and Cohorts. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1982."}
{"id": "2846322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2846322", "title": "Lebanese–Syrian Security Apparatus", "text": "Lebanese–Syrian Security Apparatus\n\nThe Lebanese–Syrian Security Apparatus is a network of intelligence officers and security leaders in Syria and Lebanon that is believed to have been the actual ruling power behind the government during the Syrian Hegemony period that ended in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "34771163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34771163", "title": "List of controversial elections", "text": "List of controversial elections\n\nThis a list of controversial elections arranged by date.\n\nThis is a list of notable elections involving accusations of direct voter fraud or in which the results were procedurally contested, extensively protested, or recognized as fraudulent by a reliable international organization.\n\n(Allegations of voter suppression)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27913302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27913302", "title": "List of places named after Robert Byrd", "text": "List of places named after Robert Byrd\n\nUnited States Senator Robert Byrd (November 20, 1917 – June 28, 2010) represented the U.S. state of West Virginia as a Democrat in the United States Senate. During his tenure as chairman of the United States Senate Committee on Appropriations, Byrd secured billions of dollars of Federal funds for projects throughout West Virginia, many of which bear his name. Byrd served four terms as Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee: January 3, 1989 through January 3, 1995; January 3, 2001 through January 20, 2001; June 6, 2001 through January 3, 2003; and January 3, 2007 through January 3, 2009. As a New Deal Democrat, Byrd used his position as chairman to battle persistent poverty in his home state of West Virginia, which he referred to as “one of the rock bottomest of states.” \"I lost no opportunity to promote funding for programs and projects of benefit to the people back home,\" said Byrd.“ Within two years of his chairmanship, Byrd surpassed his announced five-year goal of making sure more than $1 billion in Federal funds was sent back to West Virginia. In referring to his economic contributions to West Virginia, Byrd said in 2000, \"West Virginia has always had four friends: God Almighty, Sears Roebuck, Carter's Liver Pills and Robert C. Byrd.\"\n\nByrd's steering of billions of Federal dollars to West Virginia earned him the sobriquets \"King of Pork\" by the 501(c)(3) non-profit organization Citizens Against Government Waste and \"Prince of Pork\" from other taxpayer groups. According to Citizens Against Government Waste, Byrd was the first legislator to bring $1 billion of \"pork\" spending to his home state. The group named Byrd its initial \"Porker of the Year\" in 2002.\n\nIn addition to providing Federal funding to special projects, Byrd also ensured that many Federal complexes were built in West Virginia, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Criminal Justice Information Services Division complex in Clarksburg, the United States Coast Guard's National Maritime Center in Kearneysville, and a training center and firing range for U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers near Harpers Ferry. Clarksburg's FBI facility was the first of the major Federal complexes to be built under Byrd's leadership as chairman of the appropriations committee. In West Virginia's Eastern Panhandle, Byrd helped bring ten federal facilities that employed more than 3,200 people. None of these facilities are named for him, however. \n\nMore than 50 buildings built with funds from US taxpayers directed to West Virginia are named for either Byrd or his wife, Erma Ora Byrd (née James). Several transportation projects named for Byrd have gained national notoriety, including the Robert C. Byrd Highway. Also known as \"Corridor H\" of the Appalachian Development Highway System, the highway was dubbed \"West Virginia's road to nowhere\" in 2009 after it received a $9.5 million earmark in the $410 billion Omnibus Appropriations Act. The highway received another $21 million from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Critics argued the traffic on the highway was too light and the cost too high for the project to continue construction until its proposed completion in 2035. The State of West Virginia argued the highway was necessary as \"an ideal evacuation route for Washington, about 100 miles away, in case of an emergency.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following places are named after Robert Byrd's wife, Erma Ora Byrd:\n\n"}
{"id": "6692059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6692059", "title": "List of purpose-built national capitals", "text": "List of purpose-built national capitals\n\nThis is a list of capital cities that were specially designed, planned, and built to be a national or regional capital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47053413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47053413", "title": "Long Term Care Benefit Plan", "text": "Long Term Care Benefit Plan\n\nA Long Term Care Benefit Plan is an option to sell a life insurance policy in return for 30 to 60 percent of the policy value toward long term health care. A funeral benefit payment is made to the account beneficiary when the person receiving care dies. If the benefit amount is spent while the person is still alive, they are still eligible for Medicaid.\n\nPeople have a legal right to sell their life insurance policies. Life insurance policies are sold as Long Term Care Benefit Plans to pay for long term care, including assisted living and home care rather than a policy be surrendered or allowing it to lapse. \n\nA Long Term Care Benefit Plan is also known as an Assurance Benefit Plan. A Benefit Plan is separate from a long term care insurance policy because it allows policy holders to use any form of life insurance policies to pay for long term care. The plan converts a death benefit into a living benefit. Life insurance policies can be converted into a Long Term Care Benefit Plan for 30 to 60 percent of the policy amount to be used for long term care. The sale of a life insurance policy can keep people off Medicaid. By exchanging a life insurance policy for a Long Term Care Benefit Plan, the benefits go toward long term care including assisted living, home health care, and nursing homes. The conversion takes away the responsibility of premium payments from the family and there is no wait period before benefits begin. The policy transfer is subject to regulatory standards in each state. Benefits are deposited into a FDIC-insured benefit account that follows federal and state banking regulations and is held by a nationally chartered bank and trust company. The benefit payments are then made directly to the health care facility on a monthly basis.\n\nIf the insured person dies before the benefit period is over, the remaining benefit account is paid to the family or beneficiary as a final expense payment. When the benefit is spent down, the person is still eligible for Medicaid. All benefit accounts reserve either five percent of the death benefit or $5,000 (whichever is less) to provide a funeral benefit payment to the account’s beneficiary. These Benefit Plans can be funded through companies such as Life Care Funding and The Lifeline.\n\nA bill written by State Senator Jeff Klein was introduced to the New York Assembly in 2008. It aimed to offset the costs of the New York Medicaid program by focusing on accelerated death benefits. The bill was signed into law by Governor David Paterson on December 14, 2010 and expanded the definition of “life insurance.” The change included the ability to provide a living benefit to pay for long term care, meaning people who have been in nursing homes for over three months can apply accelerated death benefits toward housing and care costs. National Conference of Insurance Legislators (NCOIL) passed the Life Insurance Consumer Disclosure Model Law in 2010. Versions of the law have been considered in Oregon, Washington, Wisconsin, and Maine. NCOIL aims to require a clear notice to consumers concerning the eight options available with life insurance, including accelerated death benefits and conversion to Long Term Care Benefit Plans. This basis for legislation requires life insurance companies to provide this information to policy owners older than 60, or if they have a terminal or chronic condition.\n\nBy 2013, Medicaid life settlement legislation was introduced in thirteen states, including California, Florida, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York and Texas. It had been passed in two states. The legislation aimed to encourage the use of private-pay dollars for long term care through life insurance policy conversion into Long Term Care Benefit \nplans.\n\n"}
{"id": "40780662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40780662", "title": "Mediastan", "text": "Mediastan\n\nMediastan is a 2013 documentary film about the 2010 United States diplomatic cables leak, directed by Johannes Wahlström and produced by Julian Assange, Rebecca O'Brien and Lauren Dark.\n\nThe suffix -stan ( \"-stān\") is Persian for \"place of\" or \"country\"derived from Sanskrit sthan.\n\nIts release was timed to challenge that of \"The Fifth Estate\", a film dramatization about WikiLeaks which Assange has described as a \"propaganda attack\" against the organization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47035537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47035537", "title": "Medical Association for Prevention of War", "text": "Medical Association for Prevention of War\n\nThe Medical Association for Prevention of War (Australia) is a professional not-for-profit organisation which has promoted peace and disarmament since its foundation in 1981. The organisation is apolitical, and utilises research, consultation, advocacy, education and partnership strategies to pursue its objectives- to reduce the physical, psychological and environmental impacts of war worldwide. Also known as MAPW, the organisation has branches in each of Australia's states and territories. In 1986, MAPW was awarded an Australian Peace Prize, presented by then Prime Minister Bob Hawke.\n\nMAPW is the Australian affiliate of International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War.\n"}
{"id": "20622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20622", "title": "Militia", "text": "Militia\n\nA militia is generally an army or some other fighting organization of non-professional soldiers, citizens of a nation, or subjects of a state, who can be called upon for military service during a time of need, as opposed to a professional force of regular, full-time military personnel, or historically, members of a warrior nobility class (e.g., knights or samurai). Generally unable to hold ground against regular forces, it is common for militias to be used for aiding regular troops by skirmishing, holding fortifications, or irregular warfare, instead of being used in offensive campaigns by themselves. Militia are often limited by local civilian laws to serve only in their home region, and to serve only for a limited time; this further reduces their use in long military campaigns.\n\nWith the emergence of professional forces (in the form of mercenaries whose livelihood was military service) during the Renaissance, Western European militias wilted; later however, they would be revived as part of Florentine civic humanism, which held that professional militaries were a result of corruption, and admired the Roman model. The civic humanist ideal of the militia was spread through Europe by the writings of Niccolò Machiavelli (According to Hörnqvist, The Prince, ch. 12 and 13, Discourses on Livy, and The Art of War.)\n\nBeginning in the late 20th century, some militias (in particular officially recognized and sanctioned militias of a government) act as professional forces, while still being \"part-time\" or \"on-call\" organizations. For instance, the members of some U.S. Army National Guard units are considered professional soldiers, as they are trained to maintain the same standards as their \"full-time\" (active duty) counterparts.\n\nMilitias thus can be military or paramilitary, depending on the instance. Some of the contexts in which the term \"militia\" is used include:\n\n\"Militia\" derives from Latin roots:\n\nThe word \"militia\" dates back to ancient Rome, and more recently to at least 1590 when it was recorded in a book by Sir John Smythe, \"Certain Discourses Military\" with the meanings: a military force; a body of soldiers and military affairs; a body of military discipline\nThe word Militia comes from ancient Latin, in which it meant defense service, as distinguished from a body of (armed) defenders which would be \"volgus militum\". It should be noted that the term is used by several countries with the meaning of \"defense activity\" indicating it is taken directly from Latin.\n\nIn the early 1800s Buenos Aires, which was by then the capital of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, was attacked during the British invasions of the Río de la Plata. As regular military forces were insufficient to counter the British attackers, Santiago de Liniers drafted all males in the city capable of bearing arms into the military. These recruits included the criollo peoples, who ranked low down in the social hierarchy, as well as some slaves. With these reinforcements, the British armies were twice defeated. The militias became a strong factor in the politics of the city afterwards, as a springboard from which the \"criollos\" could manifest their political ambitions. They were a key element in the success of the May Revolution, which deposed the Spanish viceroy and began the Argentine War of Independence. A decree by Mariano Moreno derogated the system of promotions involving \"criollos\", allowing instead their promotion on military merit.\n\nThe Argentine Civil War was waged by militias again, as both federalists and unitarians drafted common people into their ranks as part of ongoing conflicts. These irregular armies were organized at a provincial level, and assembled as leagues depending on political pacts. This system had declined by the 1870s, mainly due to the establishment of the modern Argentine Army, drafted for the Paraguayan War by President Bartolome Mitre. Provincial militias were outlawed and decimated by the new army throughout the presidential terms of Mitre, Sarmiento, Avellaneda and Roca.\n\nArmenian militia, or \"fedayi\" played a major role in the independence of various Armenian states, including Western Armenia, the First Republic of Armenia, and the currently de facto independent Republic of Artsakh. Armenian militia also played a role in the Georgia-Abkhazia War of 1992–1993.\n\nIn the Colony of New South Wales Governor Lachlan Macquarie proposed a colonial militia but the idea was rejected. Governor Ralph Darling felt a mounted police force was more efficient than a militia. A military volunteer movement attracted wide interest during the Crimean War. Following Federation, the various military reserve forces of the Commonwealth of Australia became the Citizen Military Force (CMF).\n\nA citizens' militia modeled on the British Home Guard called the Volunteer Defence Corps (VDC) was founded by the Returned and Services League of Australia (RSL) in 1940 in response to the possibility of a Japanese invasion of Australia. In the beginning, members didn't have uniforms and often paraded in business attire. They were given instruction on guerrilla warfare, and later the private organization was taken over by the Australian Government and became part of the Australian Military Forces (AMF). The government supported the organization and equipped them with anti-aircraft artillery; however, they were disbanded by the end of World War II due to the fact that there was no longer a significant threat to national security.\n\nDuring the Revolutions of 1848 in the Austrian Empire, a National Guard was established in Vienna. A separate but related Academic Legion was composed mainly of students in the capital city.\n\nAfter World War I, multiple militias formed as soldiers returned home to their villages, only to find many of them occupied by Slovene and Yugoslav forces. Especially in the southern province of Carinthia the Volkswehr (Peoples Defense Force) was formed, to fight the occupant forces.\n\nDuring the First Republic, similar to the development in Germany, increasing radicalization of politics led to certain paramilitary militias associating with certain political parties. The Heimwehr (German: \"Home Defense\") became affiliated with the Christian Social Party and the Republikanischer Schutzbund (German: \"Republican Defense League\") became affiliated with the Social Democratic Workers' Party of Austria. Violence increasingly escalated, breaking out during the July Revolt of 1927 and finally the Austrian Civil War, when the Schutzbund was defeated by the Heimwehr, police, Gendarmerie and Austrian Armed Forces.\n\nAfter World War II the Austrian Armed Forces (Bundesheer) were reestablished as a conscript military force. A basic part of it is the militia, which is a regular reservists force of the Bundesheer, comparable to the national guard units of the United States. The conscript soldiers of the militia have to store their military equipment at home, to be mobilized quite fast within a few days in case of emergency. The system was established during the Cold War and still exists, but the members of the militia now are volunteers only.\n\n\"See also: Republikanischer Schutzbund, Heimwehr\"\n\nIn Canada the title \"Militia\" historically referred to the land component of the armed forces, both regular (full-time) and reserve. The earliest Canadian militias date from the beginning of the French colonial period. In New France, King Louis XIV created a compulsory militia of settlers in every parish that supported French authorities in the defence and expansion of the colony. \n\nFollowing the British conquest of New France in 1760, local militia units supported British Army regiments stationed in British North America. In addition to the Canadian militia, British regiments were also supported by locally raised regulars (including the 40th Regiment of Foot, and the 100th (Prince of Wales's Royal Canadian) Regiment of Foot) and Fencibles regiments. These regiments were raised through ordinary modes of recruiting, as opposed to being raised by ballot like the militia. Most militia units were only activated in time of war, but remained inactive in between. The battle honours awarded to these colonial militia regiments are perpetuated by modern regiments within the Canadian Army.\n\nDefence of the Canadas long relied on a contingent of British soldiers, as well as support from the Royal Navy. However, the Crimean War saw the diversion of a significant amount of British soldiers from British North America. Fearing possible incursions from the United States, the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada passed the Militia Act of 1855, creating the Active Militia. The Active Militia, later referred to as the Permanent Active Militia (PAM), was created as a full-time professional army, although it continued to use the label militia. After PAM's formation, the remaining sedentary militia regiments were collectively referred to as the Non-Permanent Active Militia (NPAM). \n\nPrior to Canadian Confederation, the colonies that made up the Maritimes, and Newfoundland maintained their own militias independent of the Canadian Militia. From 1853 to 1871, the Colony of Vancouver Island (and the succeeding Colony of British Columbia) periodically raised and disbanded militia units. These units were raised for specific purposes, or in response to a specific threat, real or perceived.\n\nAfter the Treaty of Washington was signed between the Americans and British, nearly all remaining British soldiers were withdrawn from Canada in November 1871. The departure of the majority of British forces in Canada made the Canadian militia the only major land forces available in Canada. In 1940, both components of the militia, PAM and NPAM were reorganized, and renamed the Canadian Army. NPAM was integrated into the Canadian Army as the Army's Primary Reserve. \n\nThe term Militia is still used from then to the present day to refer to the part-time army reserve component of the Canadian Forces. Currently, Militia troops usually train one night a week and every other weekend of the month, except in the summer. Summertime training may consist of courses, individual call-outs, or concentrations (unit and formation training of one to two weeks' duration). In addition, Primary Reserve members are increasingly used for voluntary service as augmentation to the regular force overseas—usually NATO or United Nations missions. Most Canadian cities and counties have one or more militia units.\n\nIn addition to the various colonial militia units, and the regiments of the Canadian militia, in 1942, the Army's Pacific Command created the Pacific Coast Militia Rangers. Intended to function similarly to the United Kingdom's Home Guard, the Rangers were a secondary defence force, defending the coast of British Columbia and Yukon from potential Japanese attack. The Rangers were disbanded in September 1945, shortly after the conclusion of World War II. The legacy of the Pacific Coast Militia Rangers is perpetuated by the Canadian Rangers, a component of the Primary Reserve that provides a military presence in areas where it would not be economically or practically viable to have conventional Army units - most notably northern Canada.\n\nChina's current militia falls under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC), and forms part of the Chinese armed forces. Under the command of the military organs, it undertakes such jobs as war preparation services, security and defense operational tasks and assistance in maintaining social order and public security.\n\nHistorically, militias of varying levels of ability have existed in China, organized on a village and clan level, especially during periods of instability and in areas subject to pirate and bandit attack. When the British attempted to take control of the New Territories in 1898, they were resisted by the local militias which had been formed for mutual defence against pirate raids. Although ultimately defeated, the militias' dogged resistance convinced the British to make concessions to the indigenous inhabitants allowing them to preserve inheritance, property and marriage rights and customs throughout most of the period of the British rule.\n\nCuba has three militia organizations: The Territorial Troops Militia (\"Milicias de Tropas Territoriales\") of about one million people (half women), the Youth Labor Army (\"Ejército Juvenil del Trabajo\") devoted to agricultural production, and a naval militia. Formerly, there existed the National Revolutionary Militias (\"Milicias Nacionales Revolucionarias\"), which was formed after the Cuban Revolution and initially consisted of 200,000 men who helped the 25,000 strong standing army defeat counter-revolutionary guerillas.\n\nThe Danish Home Guard () (HJV) is the fourth service of the Danish military. It was formerly concerned only with the defence of Danish territory but, since 2008, it has also supported Danish international military efforts in Afghanistan, Iraq and Kosovo. There are five branches: Army Home Guard, Naval Home Guard, Air Force Home Guard, Police Home Guard, and Infrastructure Home Guard.\n\nThe Danish Militia played a major role in repelling the Swedish attackers during the assault on Copenhagen in 1659.\n\nThe Omakaitse (Home Guard) was an organisation formed by the local population of Estonia on the basis of the Estonian Defence League and the forest brothers resistance movement active on the Eastern Front between 3July 1941 and 17September 1944. This arrangement was unique in the context of the war as in Latvia, which otherwise shared a common fate with Estonia, there was no organisation of this kind.\n\nWhile Finland employs conscription, they do not have separate militia units: all units are organized by and under the command of the Finnish Defence Forces. All men belong to the reserve until age 50 or 60 depending on rank, and may be called up in case of mobilization. Each reservist is assigned a position in a unit to be activated. However, since 2004, the FDF does have territorial forces, organized along the lines of regular infantry formations, which are composed of volunteers. Furthermore, long-range patrol units (sissi troops, a type of special forces) are assigned to local troops.\n\nIn history, before Finland became independent, two types of local militias existed: the White Guards and Red Guards, which were non-socialists and socialists, respectively. In the Finnish Civil War (1918) the White Guards founded the White Army, which was victorious over the Red Guards. White Guards continued their existence as a volunteer militia until the Second World War. In some cases their activity found overt political expression as in the Mäntsälä rebellion. However, in 1934 separate wartime White Guard units were dissolved and in the Second World War they served at the front, dispersed in regular units. They were dissolved as a condition of peace after the Continuation War.\n\nThe first notable militia in French history was the resistance of the Gauls to invasion by the Romans until they were defeated by Julius Caesar. Centuries later, Joan of Arc organized and led a militia until her capture and execution in 1431. This settled the succession to the French crown and laid the basis for the formation of the modern nation of France. \n\nDuring the French Revolution the National Guard was a political home defense militia. The levée en masse was a conscription army used during the Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars.\n\nAt the time of the Franco-Prussian War, the Parisian National Guard engaged the Prussian Army and later rebelled against the Versailles Army under Marshal McMahon.\n\nUnder German occupation during World War II, a militia usually called the French Resistance emerged to conduct a guerrilla war of attrition against German forces and prepare the way for the D-Day Allied Invasion of France. The Resistance militia were opposed by the collaborationist French Militia—the paramilitary police force of the German puppet state of Vichy.\n\nAlthough defunct from 1871 until 2016, the French National Guard has now been reestablished for homeland security purposes.\n\nThe earliest reports of Germanic militias was the system of hundreds described in 98 AD by the Roman historian Tacitus as the \"centeni.\" They were similar in nature to the Anglo-Saxon \"fyrd\".\n\nFreikorps (German for \"Free Corps\") was originally applied to voluntary armies. The first freikorps were recruited by Frederick II of Prussia during the Seven Years' War. These troops were regarded as unreliable by regular armies, so they were mainly used as sentries and for minor duties. During the Napoleonic occupation, organizations such as the Lutzow Freikorps fought against the occupiers and later joined the allied forces as regular soldiers.\n\nHowever, after 1918, the term was used for nationalist paramilitary organizations that sprang up around Germany as soldiers returned in defeat from World War I. They were one of the many Weimar paramilitary groups active during that time. They received considerable support from Gustav Noske, the German Defence Minister who used them to crush the Spartakist League with enormous violence, including the murders of Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg on January15, 1919. Militia were also used to put down the Bavarian Soviet Republic in 1919. They were officially \"disbanded\" in 1920, resulting in the ill-fated Kapp Putsch in March 1920. The \"Einwohnerwehr\", active in Germany from 1919 to 1921 was a paramilitary citizens' militia consisting of hundreds of thousands of mostly former servicemen. Formed by the Prussian Ministry of the Interior on April15, 1919, to allow citizens to protect themselves from looters, armed gangs, and revolutionaries, the \"Einwohnerwehr\" was under the command of the local \"Reichswehr\" regiments, which supplied its guns. In 1921, the Berlin government dissolved the \"Einwohnerwehr\". Many of its members went on to join the Nazi Party.\n\nIn 1921 the Nazi Party created the Sturmabteilung (SA; Storm Detachment; Brownshirts), which was the first paramilitary wing of the Nazi Party and served as a Nazi militia whose initial assignment was to protect Nazi leaders at rallies and assemblies. The SA also took part in street battles against the forces of rival political parties and violent actions against Jews. From the SA sprung the Schutzstaffel (SS; Protective Squadron) which grew to become one of the largest and most powerful groups in Nazi Germany, which Reichsführer-SS Heinrich Himmler (the leader of the SS from 1929) envisioned as an elite group of guards. The Waffen-SS, the military branch of the SS, became a de facto fourth branch of the Wehrmacht.\n\nIn 1944–1945, as World War II came to a close in Europe, the German high command deployed increasing numbers of Volkssturm units to combat duties. These regiments were composed of men, women and children too old, young or otherwise unfit for service in the Wehrmacht (German Regular Army). Their primary role was assisting the army with fortification duties and digging anti-tank ditches. As the shortage of manpower became severe, they were used as front line infantry, most often in urban settings. Due to the physical state of members, almost non-existent training and shortage of weapons, there was not much the Volkssturm could do except act like shields for regular army units. However, armed with Panzerfausts and deeply entrenched, a unit of Volkssturm could cause serious trouble for Soviet armor.\n\nSalwa Judum (meaning \"Peace March\" or \"Purification Hunt\" in Gondi language) is a militia active in the Chhattisgarh state of India.\n\nThe Basij militia founded by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in November 1980 is composed of 10,000 regular soldiers. It ultimately draws from about 11 million members, and is subordinate to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in Iran.\n\nSeveral armed militia groups are presently active in Iraq. The Mehdi Army is a sectarian armed force created by the Iraqi Shi'a cleric Muqtada al-Sadr in June 2003. The Badr Organization is based in and around Karbala. The Anbar Salvation Council is a Sunni armed group in Iraq formed by members of baathist and nationalist elements to fight Al-Qaeda in Iraq. The Kurdish militia, the Peshmerga, is estimated to number upwards of 500,000.\n\nThe Awakening Councils or \"concerned citizens\" are emerging to defend their neighborhoods against insurgents of every kind, functioning as a form of vigilante \"militia\" similar to the model of militia in the US.\n\nIn modern times, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) is often described as a heavily armed militia, not a full-fledged army, since it is legally and publicly viewed as a defensive force only, and since it relies heavily on the reserve duty of Israeli citizens who are annually called to service for set periods of time, rather than on professional, full-time soldiers. Israeli settlements in frontier areas such as the Galilee, Negev, Judea and Samaria rely on armed militia teams for their security . National service conscripts can also serve in the Israel Border Police (commonly known by its Hebrew abbreviation Magav which means border guard in Hebrew), which is a paramilitary branch of the Israel Police rather than the IDF.\n\nSince the fall of Gaddafi's rule of Libya in the aftermath of the Libyan Civil War, rebel groups that have contributed to the revolution splintered into self-organized militia movements and have been involved in a feud for control of each city. Since the revolution, reports of clashes and violence by militia groups have been increasing.\n\nThe Free-Colored Militia, interracial militias of New Spain, Colonial Mexico.\n\nFrom the Treaty of Waitangi in 1840 until 1844 small detachments of British Imperial troops based in New Zealand were the only military. This changed as a result of the Flagstaff War, with the colonial government passing a Militia Act on 25 March 1845. Militia units were formed in Auckland, Wellington, New Plymouth, and Nelson. Service in the militia was compulsory.\n\nMany localized militia saw service, together with British Imperial troops, during the New Zealand land wars. In the late nineteenth century a system of local Volunteer militias evolved throughout the country. These were semi-trained but uniformed and administered by a small number of regular \"Imperial\" officers.\nThe militia units were disbanded and reformed as the Territorial Army in 1911.\n\nThe Worker-Peasant Red Guards is a North Korean paramilitary organization organized on a provincial/town/city/village level.\n\nMilitias have played an important role supporting Pakistan's Military since the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947 when Pakistan, with the support of militias, was able to gain control of the region which is now known as Azad Kashmir. Pakistan found the militias volunteering to participate in the Indo-Pakistani war of 1965 and the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971 quite useful as well.\n\nCurrently Pakistani citizens forming militias from the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province are participating in the 'war on terror'.\n\nArticle XVI, Section 4 of the Philippines Constitution states: \"The Armed Forces of the Philippines shall be composed of a citizen armed force which shall undergo military training and serve as may be provided by law.\"\n\nPortugal had a long tradition in the use of militias for national defense. Between the 12th and 16th centuries, the municipal militias – composed of spearmen, pikemen, horsemen, slingers, javelineers, archers, crossbowmen and later arquebusiers – constituted the main component of the Portuguese Royal Army, together with smaller military forces from the King, the military orders and the feudal lords.\n\nAfter some failed previous attempts, in 1570 King Sebastian of Portugal created the \"Ordenanças\", a centrally managed military territorial organization that would replace the municipal militias and became the basis of a national army. After 60 years of foreign domination (1580–1640), the \"Ordenanças\" were reorganized for the Portuguese Restoration War. The Portuguese Army was then organized in three lines, with the 2nd and 3rd being militia forces. The \"Ordenanças\" became the 3rd line and acted both as a territorial draft organization for the 1st and 2nd line troops and as a kind of home guard for local defense. The 2nd line was made of the auxiliary troops, also militia units with the role of regional defense. In the end of the 18th century, the auxiliary troops were renamed \"Militias\".\n\nIn the Peninsular War, the Militia regiments and the Ordenanças units had an important role in the defense of the country against the Napoleonic invader army. Still in the 19th century, the Militia units also had an important role in the Liberal Wars, with the majority of those troops fighting on the side of King Miguel. Besides the regular militias, a number of volunteer militia units were formed to fight on both sides of the war.\n\nWith the establishment of the constitutional regime, the old Militias and \"Ordenanças\" were replaced by a single national militia force, the National Guard. However, the National Guard revealed itself an ineffective and undisciplined force. Their units became highly politicized, being involved in a number of conspiracies and coups. The National Guard having less and less confidence from the authorities, became extinct in 1847, terminating a long tradition of national militias in Portugal.\n\nDuring the 20th century, some experiments with militia type forces were made. From 1911 to 1926, the Portuguese Army was organized as a militia army. Also, in 1936, the \"Estado Novo\" regime created the Portuguese Legion as a political volunteer militia, dedicated to the fight against the enemies of country and of the social order. From World War II, the Portuguese Legion assumed the responsibility for civil defense, this becoming its main role during the Cold War, until its extinction in 1974.\n\nNeither the Russian Empire, nor the Soviet Union ever had an organised force that could be equated to a militia. Instead a form of organisation that predated the Russian state was used during national emergencies called Narodnoe Opolcheniye (People's Regimentation). More comparable to the English Fyrd, it was a popular voluntary joining of the local полк polk, or a regiment, though it had no regular established strength or officers, these usually elected from prominent local citizens. Although these spontaneously created popular forces had participated in several major wars of the Russian Empire, including in combat, they were not obligated to serve for more than one year, and notably departed for home during the 1813 campaign in Germany. On only one occasion, during the military history of the Soviet Union, the Narodnoe Opolcheniye was incorporated into the regular forces of the Red Army, notably in Leningrad and Moscow.\n\nThe term Militsiya in Russia and former Communist Bloc nations was specifically used to refer to the civilian police force, and should not be confused with the conventional western definition of militia. The term, as used in this context, dated from post-revolutionary Russia in late 1917 and was intended to draw a distinction between the new Soviet law enforcement agencies and the disbanded Tsarist police. In some of these states militia was renamed back to police such as Ukraine while in the other states it remains such as Belarus. In Russia it was renamed to Police (in , \"Politsiya\") in March 2011.\n\nThe first militias formed in Sri Lanka were by Lankan Kings, who raised militia armies for their military campaigns both within and outside the island. This was due to the reason that the Kings never maintained a standing army instead had a Royal Guard during peace time and formed a militia in wartime.\n\nWhen the Portuguese who were the first colonial power to dominate the island raised local militias under the command of local leaders known as Mudaliyars. These militias took part in the many Portuguese campaigns against the Lankan Kings. The Dutch continued to employ these militias but due to their unreliability tended to favor employing Swiss and Malay mercenaries in their campaigns in the island.\n\nThe British Empire then ousted the Dutch from the coastal areas of the country, and sought to conquer the independent Kandyan Kingdom. In 1802, the British became the first foreign power to raise a regular unit of Sinhalese with British officers, which was named the 2nd Ceylon Regiment, also known as the Sepoy Corps. It fought alongside British troops in the Kandyan wars. After the Matale Rebellion led by Puran Appu in 1848, in which a number of Sinhalese recruits defected to the side of the rebels, the recruitment of Sinhalese to the British forces was temporarily halted and the Ceylon Regiments disbanded.\n\nIn 1861, the Ceylon Light Infantry Volunteers were raised as a militia, but soon became a military reserve force. This became the Ceylon Defence Force in 1910 and consisted of militia units. These were the Colombo Town Guard and the Town Guard Artillery formed during the two world wars.\n\nWith the escalation of the Sri Lankan Civil War, local villagers under threat of attack were formed into localized militia to protect their families and homes. According to the Sri Lankan Military these militias were formed after \"massacres done by the LTTE\" and in the early 1990s they were reformed as the Sri Lankan Home Guard. In 2007 the Home Guard became the Sri Lanka Civil Security Force. In 2008, the government called for the formation of nearly 15,000 civil defence committees at the village level for additional protection.\n\nIn 2004, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam claimed have establish a voluntary \"Tamil Eelam auxiliary force\". According to the LTTE's then head of police, the force was to be assigned to tasks such as rehabilitation, construction, forest conservation and agriculture, but would also be used to battle the Sri Lankan military if the need arose. In early 2009 it ceased to exist with the military defeat of the LTTE at the hands of the Sri Lanka Armed Forces.\n\nThe Janjaweed militia consists of armed Arab Muslims fighting for the government in Khartoum against non-Arab Muslim \"rebels\". They are active in the Darfur region of western Sudan and also in eastern Chad. According to Human Rights Watch these partisans are responsible for abuses including war crimes, crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing.\n\nAs of 2012, the Swedish Home Guard consists of 22,000 organized into 40 light infantry battalions of 300–700 Guardsmen. These battalions are then organised into companies, usually one for every municipality. The main task of the battalions is to guard vital military and civilian installations throughout the country.\n\nIn 2001, the Rapid Response units numbered around 5,000 soldiers of the total of 42,000. As of 2014, the majority of the force, 17,000 out of 22,000 soldiers will be in Rapid Response units. The decrease in number of troops comes with an equal increase in quality and modern equipment. These units are motorized and are ready to be mobilized more often, than other Home Guard units. Rapid response units have more combat tasks compared to the rest of the Home Guard, including escort duties. Some battalions located near the coast also have marine companies equipped with Combat Boat 90. A few battalions have recently set up 'specialized' companies to evaluate the possibility to add new abilities to the Home Guard. These are at the time of writing eight reconnaissance/intelligence companies, four CBRN-platoons, a movcon platoon, an engineer platoon, and a military police unit.\n\nOne of the best known and ancient militias is the Swiss Armed Forces. Switzerland has long maintained, proportionally, the second largest military force in the world, with about half the proportional amount of reserve forces of the Israeli Defense Forces, a militia of some 33% of the total population. The \"militia principle\" of public duties is central to Swiss political culture and not limited to military issues. For example in most municipalities it is common to serve as a conscript fire fighter in the Compulsory Fire Department.\n\nArticle 58.1 of the April18, 1999, Federal Constitution of the Swiss Confederation (official, French version) provides that \"Switzerland has an army. It is primarily organised according to the principle of a militia.\" However, under the country's militia system, professional soldiers constitute about 5 percent of military personnel. In 1995, the number of soldiers was reduced to 400,000 (including reservists, amounting to some 5.6% of the population) and again in 2004, to 200,000 (including 80,000 reservists, or 2.5% of the population). However, the Swiss Militia continues to consist of most of the adult male population (with voluntary participation by women) who are required to keep an assault rifle at home and to periodically engage in combat and marksmanship training. The militia clauses of the Swiss Federal Constitution are contained in Art. 59, where it is referred to as \"military service\" (; ; ; ).\n\nThe Syrian National Defense Force was formed out of pro-government militias. They receive their salaries and their military equipment from the government and as of 2013 numbers around 100,000. The force acts in an infantry role, directly fighting against rebels on the ground and running counter-insurgency operations in coordination with the army which provides them with logistical and artillery support. Unlike the Syrian Army, NDF soldiers are allowed to take loot from battlefields, which can then be sold on for extra money.\n\nThe obligation to serve in the militia in England derives from a common law tradition, and dates back to Anglo-Saxon times. The tradition was that all able-bodied males were liable to be called out to serve in one of two organisations. These were the posse comitatus, an \"ad hoc\" assembly called together by a law officer to apprehend lawbreakers, and the fyrd, a military body intended to preserve internal order or defend the locality against an invader. The latter developed into the militia, and was usually embodied by a royal warrant. Service in each organisation involved different levels of preparedness.\n\nWith the decay of the feudal system and the military revolution of the 16th century, the militia began to become an important institution in English life. It was organised on the basis of the shire county, and was one of the responsibilities of the Lord Lieutenant, a royal official (usually a trusted nobleman). Each of the county hundreds was likewise the responsibility of a Deputy Lieutenant, who relayed orders to the justices of the peace or magistrates. Every parish furnished a quota of eligible men, whose names were recorded on muster rolls. Likewise, each household was assessed for the purpose of finding weapons, armour, horses, or their financial equivalent, according to their status. The militia was supposed to be mustered for training purposes from time to time, but this was rarely done. The militia regiments were consequently ill-prepared for an emergency, and could not be relied upon to serve outside their own counties. This state of affairs concerned many people. Consequently, an elite force was created, composed of members of the militia who were prepared to meet regularly for military training and exercise. These were formed into trained band regiments, particularly in the City of London, where the Artillery Ground was used for training. The trained bands performed an important role in the English Civil War on the side of parliament, in marching to raise the siege of Gloucester (5 September 1643). Except for the London trained bands, both sides in the Civil War made little use of the militia, preferring to recruit their armies by other means.\n\nAs successful English settlement of North America began to take place in 1607 in the face of the hostile intentions of the powerful Spanish, and of the native populations, it became immediately necessary to raise militia amongst the settlers. The militia in Jamestown saw constant action against the Powhatan Federation and other native polities. In the Virginia Company's other outpost, Bermuda, fortification began immediately in 1612. A Spanish attack in 1614 was repulsed by two shots fired from the incomplete Castle Islands Fortifications manned by Bermudian Militiamen. In the Nineteenth century, \"Fortress Bermuda\" would become Britain's \"Gibraltar of the West\", heavily fortified by a Regular Army garrison to protect the Royal Navy's headquarters and dockyard in the Western Atlantic.\n\nIn the 17th Century, however, Bermuda's defence was left entirely in the hands of the Militia. In addition to requiring all male civilians to train and serve in the militia of their Parish, the Bermudian Militia included a standing body of trained artillerymen to garrison the numerous fortifications which ringed \"New London\" (St. George's). This standing body was created by recruiting volunteers, and by sentencing criminals to serve as punishment. The Bermudian militiamen were called out on numerous occasions of war, and, on one notable occasion, to quell rioting privateers. The 1707 Acts of Union made Bermudian and other English militiamen \"British\". The Militia in Bermuda came to include a Troop of Horse (mounted infantry) and served alongside volunteers and (from 1701) a small body of regulars. The Militia faded away after the American War of 1812 when the Parliament of Bermuda declined to renew the Militia Act. This resulted from the build-up of the regular army Bermuda Garrison along with Bermuda's development as the headquarters and dockyard of the North America and West Indies Station of the Royal Navy, which made the militia seem excess to need. Vast sums of the Imperial defence expenditure were lavished on fortifying Bermuda during the Nineteenth Century and the British Government cajoled, implored, begged, and threatened the colonial legislature for 80 years before it raised a militia and volunteer units (in 1894 and 1894 respectively). Although the militia had historically been an infantry force, many units in Britain had been re-tasked as militia artillery from the 1850s onward due to the increased importance of the coastal artillery defences and the new militia unit in Bermuda followed suit. Titled the \"Bermuda Militia Artillery\", it was badged and uniformed as part of the Royal Artillery, and tasked with the garrison artillery role, manning coastal batteries. As in Britain, recruitment was of volunteers who engaged for terms of service, whereas the Bermuda Volunteer Rifle Corps was organised on the same lines as volunteer rifle corps in Britain. Recruitment to the BVRC was restricted to whites, but the BMA recruited primarily coloured (those who were not entirely of European heritage) other ranks, though its officers were all white until 1953. Neither unit was reorganised in 1908 when the Militia, Volunteer Force and Yeomanry in Britain merged into the Territorial Force, but the BVRC was re-organised as a territorial in 1921 and the BMA in 1926. The BVRC name was not modified to Bermuda Rifles until 1951, however, and the Bermuda Militia Artillery (and from 1939 the Bermuda Militia Infantry) continued to be titled as militia until amalgamated with the Bermuda Rifles in 1965 to form the Bermuda Regiment.\n\nIn British India, a special class of militia was established in 1907. This took the form of the Frontier Corps, which consisted of locally recruited full-time auxiliaries under British officers. Their role combined the functions of tribal police and border guards deployed along the North-West Frontier. Regional units included the Zhob Militia, the Kurram Militia, and the Chagai Militia. After 1946 the Frontier Corps became part of the modern Pakistan Army.\n\nUntil the Glorious Revolution in 1688 the Crown and Parliament were in strong disagreement. The English Civil War left a rather unusual military legacy. Both Whigs and Tories distrusted the creation of a large standing army not under civilian control. The former feared that it would be used as an instrument of royal tyranny. The latter had memories of the New Model Army and the anti-monarchical social and political revolution that it brought about. Both preferred a small standing army under civilian control for defensive deterrence and to prosecute foreign wars, a large navy as the first line of national defence, and a militia composed of their neighbours as additional defence and to preserve domestic order.\n\nConsequently, the English Bill of Rights (1689) declared, amongst other things: \"that the raising or keeping a standing army within the kingdom in time of peace, unless it be with consent of Parliament, is against law...\" and \"that the subjects which are Protestants may have arms for their defence suitable to their conditions and as allowed by law.\" This implies that they are fitted to serve in the militia, which was intended to serve as a counterweight to the standing army and preserve civil liberties against the use of the army by a tyrannical monarch or government.\n\nThe Crown still (in the British constitution) controls the use of the army. This ensures that officers and enlisted men swear an oath to a politically neutral head of state, and not to a politician. While the funding of the standing army subsists on annual financial votes by parliament, the Mutiny Act, superseded by the Army Act, and now the Armed Forces Act is also renewed on an annual basis by Parliament. If it lapses, the legal basis for enforcing discipline disappears, and soldiers lose their legal indemnity for acts committed under orders.\n\nWith the creation of the British Empire, militias were also raised in the colonies, where little support could be provided by regular forces. Overseas militias were first raised in Jamestown, Virginia, and in Bermuda, where the Bermuda Militia followed over the next two centuriesa similar trajectory to that in Britain.\n\nIn 1707 the Acts of Union united the Kingdom of England with the Kingdom of Scotland. The Scottish navy was incorporated into the Royal Navy. The Scottish military (as opposed to naval) forces merged with the English, with pre-existing regular Scottish regiments maintaining their identities, though command of the new British Army was from England. How this affected militias either side of the border is unclear.\n\nThe Militia Act of 1757 created a more professional force. Better records were kept, and the men were selected by ballot to serve for longer periods; specific provision was made for members of the Religious Society of Friends, Quakers, to be exempted, as conscientious objectors, from compulsory enlistment in the militia. Proper uniforms and better weapons were provided, and the force was 'embodied' from time to time for training sessions.\n\nThe militia was widely embodied at various times during the French and Napoleonic Wars. It served at several vulnerable locations, and was particularly stationed on the South Coast and in Ireland. A number of camps were held at Brighton, where the militia regiments were reviewed by the Prince Regent. (This is the origin of the song \"Brighton Camp\".) The militia could not be compelled to serve overseas, but it was seen as a training reserve for the army, as bounties were offered to men who opted to 'exchange' from the militia to the regular army.\n\nThe Parliament of Ireland passed an act in 1715 raising regiments of militia in each county and county corporate. Membership was restricted to Protestants between the ages of 16 and 60. In 1793, during the Napoleonic Wars, the Irish militia were reorganised to form thirty-seven county and city regiments. While officers of the reorganised force were Protestant, membership of the other ranks was now made available to members of all denominations.\n\nIn the late 17th century came calls for the resurrection of militia in Scotland that had the understated aim of protecting the rights of Scots from English oppression. The 1757 Militia Act did not apply in Scotland. The old traditional system continued, so that militia regiments only existed in some places. This was resented by some and the Militia Club, soon to become the Poker Club, was formed to promote the raising of a Scottish militia. This and several other Edinburgh clubs became the crucible of the Scottish Enlightenment. The Militia Act 1797 empowered Scottish Lord Lieutenants to raise and command militia regiments in each of the \"Counties, Stewartries, Cities, and Places\" under their jurisdiction.\n\nAlthough muster rolls were prepared as late as 1820, the element of compulsion was abandoned, and the militia transformed into a volunteer force, revived by the Militia Act of 1852. It was intended to be seen as an alternative to the army. Men would volunteer and undertake basic training for several months at an army depot. Thereafter, they would return to civilian life, but report for regular periods of military training (usually on the weapons ranges) and an annual two-week training camp. In return, they would receive military pay and a financial retainer, a useful addition to their civilian wage. Of course, many saw the annual camp as the equivalent of a paid holiday. The militia thus appealed to agricultural labourers, colliers and the like, men in casual occupations, who could leave their civilian job and pick it up again. Until 1852 the militia were an entirely infantry force, but from that year a number of county infantry regiments were converted to artillery and new ones raised. In 1877 the militia of Anglesey and Monmouthshire were converted to engineers. Under the reforms, introduced by Secretary of State for War Hugh Childers in 1881, the remaining militia infantry regiments were redesignated as numbered battalions of regiments of the line, ranking after the two regular battalions. Typically, an English, Welsh or Scottish regiment would have two militia battalions (the 3rd and 4th) and Irish regiments three (numbered 3rd–5th).\n\nThe militia must not be confused with the volunteer units created in a wave of enthusiasm in the second half of the nineteenth century. In contrast with the Volunteer Force, and the similar Yeomanry Cavalry, they were considered rather plebeian.\n\nThe militia was transformed into the Special Reserve by the military reforms of Haldane in the reforming post 1906 Liberal government. In 1908 the militia infantry battalions were redesignated as \"reserve\" and a number were amalgamated or disbanded. Numbered Territorial Force battalions, ranking after the Special Reserve, were formed from the volunteer units at the same time. Altogether, 101 infantry battalions, 33 artillery regiments and two engineer regiments of special reservists were formed. Upon mobilisation, the special reserve units would be formed at the depot and continue training while guarding vulnerable points in Britain. The special reserve units remained in Britain throughout the First World War, but their rank and file did not, since the object of the special reserve was to supply drafts of replacements for the overseas units of the regiment. The original militiamen soon disappeared, and the battalions simply became training units. The Special Reserve reverted to its militia designation in 1921, then to Supplementary Reserve in 1924, though the units were effectively placed in \"suspended animation\" until disbanded in 1953.\n\nThe name was briefly revived in the Military Training Act 1939, in the aftermath of the Munich Crisis. Leslie Hore-Belisha, Secretary of State for War, wished to introduce a limited form of conscription, not known in peacetime Britain since the militia of the early 19th century and previously. It was thought that calling the conscripts 'militiamen' would make this more acceptable, as it would render them distinct from the rest of the army. Only single men aged 20 up to the day before their 22nd birthday were to be conscripted, for six months full-time training before discharge into the reserve (with a free suit of civilian clothing). Although the first intake was called up in late July 1939, the declaration of war on 3 September entailed implementation of full-time conscription for all men aged 18–41, superseding the militia, never to be revived.\n\nThree units still maintain their militia designation in the British Army.These are the Royal Monmouthshire Royal Engineers (formed in 1539), the Jersey Field Squadron (The Royal Militia Island of Jersey) (formed in 1337), and the Royal Alderney Militia (created in the 13th century and reformed in 1984). Additionally, the Atholl Highlanders are a ceremonial infantry militia maintained by the Duke of Atholl—they are the only legal private army in Europe.\n\nVarious other part-time, home defence organisations have been raised during times of crisis or perceived threat, although without the word \"militia\" in their title. These have included:\n\nThe various non-state paramilitary groups involved in the 20th-century conflicts in Northern Ireland and the island of Ireland, such as the various Irish Republican Army groups and loyalist paramilitaries, could also be described as militias and are occasionally referred to as such.\n\nThe Ulster Defence Regiment (UDR) was a locally raised professional militia instituted by an Act of Parliament in December 1969, becoming operational on 1 April 1970. Created as a non-partisan force to defend Northern Ireland \"against armed attack or sabotage\", it eventually peaked at 11 battalions with 7,559 men and women. 197 soldiers of the UDR, including four women, were killed as active servicemen, with a further 61 killed after leaving the regiment, mostly by the Provisional Irish Republican Army. As a result of defence cuts it was eventually reduced to 7 battalions before being amalgamated with the Royal Irish Rangers in 1992 to form the \"Home Service Battalions\" of the Royal Irish Regiment.\n\nThe history of militia in the United States dates from the colonial era, such as in the American Revolutionary War. Based on the English system, colonial militias were drawn from the body of adult male citizens of a community, town, or local region. Because there was no standing English Army before the English Civil War, and subsequently the English Army and later the British Army had few regulars garrisoning North America, colonial militia served a vital role in local conflicts, particularly in the French and Indian Wars. Before shooting began in the American War of Independence, American revolutionaries took control of the militia system, reinvigorating training and excluding men with Loyalist inclinations. Regulation of the militia was codified by the Second Continental Congress with the Articles of Confederation. The revolutionaries also created a full-time regular army—the Continental Army—but because of manpower shortages the militia provided short-term support to the regulars in the field throughout the war.\n\nIn colonial era Anglo-American usage, militia service was distinguished from military service in that the latter was normally a commitment for a fixed period of time of at least a year, for a salary, whereas militia was only to meet a threat, or prepare to meet a threat, for periods of time expected to be short. Militia persons were normally expected to provide their own weapons, equipment, or supplies, although they may later be compensated for losses or expenditures. A related concept is the jury, which can be regarded as a specialized form of militia convened to render a verdict in a court proceeding (known as a petit jury or trial jury) or to investigate a public matter and render a presentment or indictment (grand jury).\n\nWith the Constitutional Convention of 1787 and Article 1 Section 8 of the United States Constitution, control of the army and the power to direct the militia of the states was concurrently delegated to the federal Congress. The Militia Clauses gave Congress authority for \"organizing, arming, and disciplining\" the militia, and \"governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the United States\", with the States retaining authority to appoint officers and to impose the training specified by Congress. Proponents describe a key element in the concept of \"militia\" was that to be \"genuine\" it not be a \"select militia\", composed of an unrepresentative subset of the population. This was an argument presented in the ratification debates.\n\nThe first legislation on the subject was the Militia Act of 1792 which provided, in part:\nThat each and every free able-bodied white male citizen of the respective States, resident therein, who is or shall be of age of eighteen years, and under the age of forty-five years (except as is herein after excepted) shall severally and respectively be enrolled in the militia, ... every citizen, so enrolled and notified, shall, within six months thereafter, provide himself with a good musket or firelock.\n\nDuring the nineteenth century, each of the states maintained its militia differently, some more than others. American militia saw action in the various Indian Wars, the War of 1812, the American Civil War, and the Spanish–American War. Sometimes militia units were found to be unprepared, ill-supplied, and unwilling. Prior to the Civil War, militia units were sometimes used by southern states for slave control. Formed in 1860, Republican Party-affiliated Wide Awakes clubs were quick to take action to defend persons against southern slave-hunters. In California, the militia carried out campaigns against bandits and against the Indians at the direction of its Governor between 1850 and 1866. During Reconstruction after the Civil War, Republican state governments had militias composed almost entirely of freed slaves and populist whites. Their deployment to maintain order in the former Confederate states caused increased resentment among many Southern whites.\n\nAfter the American Civil War, secret groups like the Ku Klux Klan and Knights of the White Camellia arose quickly across the South, reaching a peak in the late 1860s. Even more significant in terms of effect were private militias: paramilitary organizations that formed starting in 1874, including the White League in Louisiana, which quickly formed chapters in other states; the Red Shirts in Mississippi in 1875, and with South Carolina and North Carolina; and other \"white line\" militias and rifle clubs.\n\nIn contrast to the KKK, these paramilitary organizations were open; members were often well known in their communities. Nevertheless, they used force, intimidation, and violence, including murder, to push out Republican officeholders, break up organizing, and suppress freedmen's voting and civil rights. The paramilitary groups were described as \"the military arm of the Democratic Party\" and were instrumental in helping secure Democratic victories in the South in the elections of 1876.\n\nThe Militia Act of 1903 divided what had been the militia into what it termed the \"organized\" militia, created from portions of the former state guards to become state National Guard units, and the \"unorganized\" militia consisting of all males from ages 17 to 45, with the exception of certain officials and others, which is codified in . Some states, such as Texas, California, and Ohio, created separate state defense forces for assistance in local emergencies. Congress later established a system of \"dual enlistment\" for the National Guard, so that anyone who enlisted in the National Guard also enlisted in the U.S. Army. When the U.S. Air Force was established as an independent service in 1947, the National Guard was further divided into the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard. Under this construct, the 1933 defense act's \"dual enlistment\" facet was further amended so that enlisted soldiers and commissioned officers in the Army National Guard were also enlisted or commissioned in the Reserve Component of the U.S. Army. Enlisted airmen and commissioned officers in the Air National Guard were also enlisted or commissioned in the Air Reserve Component (ARC) of the U.S. Air Force.\n\nPrivately organized citizen militia-related groups blossomed in the mid-1990s, which collectively became known as the constitutional militia movement. The supporters have not been affiliated with any government organization, although many have been military and law enforcement veterans.\n\nIn its original sense, \"militia\" meant \"the state, quality, condition, or activity of being a fighter or warrior.\" It can be thought of as \"combatant activity\", \"the fighter frame of mind\", \"the militant mode\", \"the soldierly status\", or \"the warrior way\". In this latter usage, a militia is a body of private persons who respond to an emergency threat to public safety, usually one that requires an armed response, but which can also include ordinary law enforcement or disaster responses. The act of bringing to bear arms contextually changes the status of the person, from peaceful citizen, to warrior citizen. The militia is the sum total of persons undergoing this change of state. Persons have been said to engage in militia in response to a \"call up\" by any person aware of the emergent threat requiring the response, and thence to be in \"called up\" status until the emergency is past. There is no minimum size to militia, and a solitary act of defense, including self-defense, can be thought of as one person calling up himself to defend the community, represented by himself or others, and to enforce the law. See citizen's arrest and hue and cry.\n\nIn the 2008 decision of the Supreme Court, in District of Columbia v. Heller, the \"de jure\" definition of \"militia\" as used in United States jurisprudence was discussed. The Court's opinion made explicit, in its \"obiter dicta\", that the term \"militia,\" as used in colonial times in this originalist decision, included both the federally organized militia and the citizen-organized militias of the several States: \"... the 'militia' in colonial America consisted of a subset of 'the people'—those who were male, able-bodied, and within a certain age range\" (7) ... Although the militia consists of all able-bodied men, the federally-organized militia may consist of a subset of them\"(23).\n\n\nThe most important previous activity of the Texas Militia was the Texas Revolution in 1836. Texans declared independence from Mexico while they were defeated during the Battle of the Alamo, in March 1836. On April 21, 1836, led by Sam Houston, the Militia attacked the Mexican Army at their camp, in the Battle of San Jacinto near the present city of Houston. Following the war, some militia units reorganized into what was later to be known as the Texas Rangers, which was a private, volunteer effort for several years before becoming an official organization. After Texas joined the Union of the United States in 1845, Texas militia units participated in the Mexican–American War.\n\nIn 1861 Texas joined the other Confederate States in seceding from the Union, and Texas militias played a role in the American Civil War, until it ended in 1865. Texas militiamen joined Theodore Roosevelt's Rough Riders, a volunteer militia, and fought with him during the Spanish–American War in 1898. Some of the training of the Rough Riders took place in San Pedro Park, in the north central part of San Antonio near the present site of San Antonio College. When a muster of the Militia proposed to train there on April 19, 1994, they were threatened with arrest, even though the charter of San Pedro Park forbids exclusion of activities of that kind. This threat led to a change of the meeting site. Like many other American states, Texas maintains a recognized State Militia, the Texas State Guard.\n\nThe Vietnam Militia (\"Dân quân Tự vệ\") is a part of Vietnam People's Armed Forces. The militia organized in communes, wards and townships and are put under commune-level military commands. \n\nVietnam Militia has two branches: Special Militia (nòng cốt) and General Militia (rộng rãi). The term of service in the core militia is 4 years.\n\nBeside the federal Yugoslav People's Army, each constituent republic of the former SFR Yugoslavia had its own \"Territorial Defense Forces\". The Non-Aligned Yugoslavia was concerned about an eventual aggression from any of the superpowers, especially by the Warsaw Pact after the Prague Spring, so the \"Territorial Defense Forces\" were formed as an integral part of the total war military doctrine called \"Total National Defense\". Those forces corresponded to military reserve forces, paramilitary or militia, the latter, in the military meaning of the term (like military formation). It should not be confused with the Yugoslav Militia- \"Milicija\" which was a term for a police.\n\nThe Militia Information Service (MIS), an Australian not-for-profit organization, asserts that membership in the militia is a civic duty that helps to deter crime, tyranny, and crimes against humanity like genocide. The MIS urges all competent, law-abiding adults to \"obtain a military type rifle and pistol like those commonly used by soldiers in their nation's armed forces and use them regularly (target shooting, hunting, etc.) in order to become proficient with them.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17945207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17945207", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (Egypt)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (Egypt)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation of Egypt is a ministerial body in charge of agriculture and land reclamation in Egypt.\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture was established on 20 November 1913. In 1996, it was renamed Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation. One of its goals is to address sustainability in agriculture such as better ways to do agricultural irrigation. \n\nIn 2016, an agency from Switzerland was put in charge of inspecting Egypt's imported wheat. Egypt imports the most wheat of any country and around 40% of the average Egyptians' income is spent on food.\n\nAs of 2000, small farms (between 5 and 6 feddans) accounted for most (49.61%) of the agricultural land ownership in Egypt. 34.72% of farm holdings were of 1 feddan or less. The hope is that with desalination plants, new wells and better infrastructure farmers will be able to grow more wheat.\n\nIn April 2018 Egypt purchased wheat from local farmers but not at a price farmers found sustainable.\n\nA land reclamation project was begun in 2015, near the town of Farafra. Large government and private investment and initiatives in farming the Sahara Desert have sometimes ended with little to show.\n\nIn June 2017, it was announced 1.7 million feddans had been reclaimed and according to the Egyptian Prime Minister, Sherif Ismail, this work would continue. It was President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi who, in May 2017, asked for the armed services to begin reclaiming land by demolishing illegally erected structures on land not owned by builders or squatters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1479573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1479573", "title": "Mississippi Plan", "text": "Mississippi Plan\n\nThe Mississippi Plan of 1875 was developed by conservative white Democrats as part of the white insurgency during the Reconstruction Era in the Southern United States. It was devised by the Democratic Party in that state to overthrow the Republican Party in Mississippi by means of organized threats of violence and suppression or purchase of the black vote. Democrats wanted to regain political control of the legislature and governor's office. Their success in doing so led to similar plans being adopted by white Democrats in South Carolina and other majority-black states.\n\nTo end election violence and ensure that freedmen were excluded from politics, the Democrat-dominated state legislature passed a new constitution in 1890, which effectively disenfranchised and disarmed most blacks by erecting barriers to voter registration and firearms ownership. Disenfranchisement was enforced through terrorist violence and fraud, and most black people stopped trying to register or vote. They did not regain the power to vote until the late 1960s after the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965 was passed to authorize federal oversight of state practices and protect citizens' right to vote. \n\nDuring Reconstruction, former slaves were granted citizenship and African-American men were granted the franchise by the 14th and 15th Amendments. The consequences of this were far-reaching and almost immediate, as freedmen eagerly registered and flooded the polls. Freedmen overwhelming registered as Republicans, allying with the party that had secured their emancipation. But they voted for white Republican candidates as well as for blacks. \n\nFor example, in the black-majority state of Mississippi, of the 100 delegates to the Mississippi constitutional convention that drafted the Reconstruction constitution, only 16 were black.\n\nIn Mississippi's 1874 election, the Republican Party carried a 30,000 majority in what had been a Democratic Party stronghold when only whites voted. Republicans took the governor's office and some legislative seats, but blacks never held a majority of seats in any of the state legislatures, although that was their proportion of the population. Freedmen and other blacks (some free blacks had migrated from the North to work in the state), were elected to many local offices and held 10 of 36 seats in the state legislature that year. (They comprised a large majority of the population and voted for white Republicans as well as blacks.)\n\nIn 1874 whites in the city of Vicksburg were determined to suppress black voting in that year's election. White armed patrols prevented blacks from voting; Democrats succeeded in defeating all Republican city officials in the August election. By December the emboldened party forced the black county sheriff, Crosby, to flee to the state capital. Blacks who rallied to the city to aid the sheriff also had to flee in the face of superior white forces, as armed whites flooded the city. Over the next few days, armed white gangs may have murdered up to 300 blacks in the city and its vicinity, in what became known as the Vicksburg riots.\n\nU.S. President Ulysses S. Grant sent a company of troops to Vicksburg in January 1875 to quell the violence and allow the sheriff's safe return. The sheriff was assassinated by his white deputy, A. Gilmer on June 7, 1875.\n\nIn 1875, under their Mississippi Plan, the Democrats conducted a political dual-pronged battle to reverse Republican strength in the state. White paramilitary organizations such as the Red Shirts arose to serve as \"the military arm of the Democratic Party.\" Unlike the Ku Klux Klan (which was defunct by then), the Red Shirts operated and paraded openly, with members known in local areas. They sometimes invited newspaper coverage of their parades and activities, and their goals were political – to throw out the Republicans. They were well-armed, with private financing for the purchase of new weapons as they took on more power. The first step was to persuade the 10 to 15 percent of Scalawags (white Republicans) to vote with the Democratic party. Outright attacks and economic and political pressure convinced many carpetbaggers to switch parties or flee the state.\n\nThe second step of the Mississippi Plan was intimidation of freedmen and their families. Planters, landlords and merchants used economic coercion against black sharecroppers and farmers, with limited success. The Red Shirts more often used violence, including whippings and murders, and intimidation at the polls. They were joined in the violence by white paramilitary groups known as \"rifle clubs,\" who frequently provoked riots at Republican rallies, shooting down dozens of blacks in the ensuing conflicts.\n\nAlthough the governor requested Federal troops to curb the violence, President Ulysses S. Grant hesitated to act. He feared being accused of \"bayonet rule\" — which he believed would undoubtedly be exploited by Democrats to carry Ohio in that year's state elections. The violence went unchecked and the plan worked as intended: during Mississippi's 1875 statewide election, five counties with large black majorities polled only 12, 7, 4, 2, and 0 Republican votes, respectively. The Republican dominance by 30,000 votes in the 1874 national and city elections was reversed in 1875, with polls showing a Democratic majority of 30,000 in statewide elections.\n\nThe success of the white Democrats in Mississippi influenced the growth of Red Shirt chapters in North and South Carolina as well, which also had thousands of white men involved in rifle clubs. The Red Shirts were particularly prominent in suppressing black votes in majority-black counties in South Carolina. Historians estimated that they committed 150 murders in the weeks leading up to the 1876 election in South Carolina. Louisiana also produced white insurgents, known as the White League, who together with rifle clubs likewise suppressed black voting in the state by violence from 1874 on.\n\nIn 1877, U.S. federal troops were withdrawn from the Southern states, due to the national Compromise of 1877. White Democrats had control of all southern state legislatures, although blacks continued to be elected to local offices through the 1880s, and to some congressional seats in the late 19th century, the result of alliances with the Populists in some states. \n\nIn 1890 the Mississippi Democratic-dominated legislature drafted and passed a new constitution, which effectively disenfranchised and disarmed most blacks by erecting barriers to firearms ownership as well as voter registration, by a method of poll taxes, subjective literacy tests, and more restrictive residency requirements. When these legal provisions, which used race-neutral language but were enforced in a discriminatory manner, survived legal challenges to the United States Supreme Court, other Southern U.S. states, such as South Carolina and Oklahoma, adopted similar provisions in new constitutions or laws. Through the turn of the century to 1908, Southern Democrats disenfranchised most black people and many poor whites (especially in Alabama) by enacting such new state constitutions. Black people were effectively excluded from participating in the formal political system of the American South until the late 1960s, after gaining federal legislation to support and defend their constitutional right to vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "2444775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2444775", "title": "Mote Marine Laboratory", "text": "Mote Marine Laboratory\n\nMote Marine Laboratory is an independent, not-for-profit, marine research organization based on City Island in Sarasota, Florida, with additional campuses in eastern Sarasota County, Boca Grande, Florida, and the Florida Keys. Founded in 1955 by Dr. Eugenie Clark in Placida, Florida, it was known as the Cape Haze Marine Laboratory until 1967. The Lab aims to advance marine science and education, supporting conservation and sustainable use of marine resources. The public Mote Aquarium and associated education program translate Mote research for the public.\n\nMote Marine Laboratory, founded by Dr. Eugenie Clark in 1955 in Placida, Florida, was known as Cape Haze Marine Laboratory until its 1967 renaming in honor of major benefactors of the laboratory William R. Mote, his wife Lenore, and his sister, Betty Mote Rose. Mote's early research was focused on sharks and other fishes. Since 1960, Mote has been based in Sarasota, Florida, and has been located on City Island since 1978.\n\nMote celebrated its 55th Anniversary during 2010. The Lab was recognized for its 55 years of marine science with a resolution in the Florida House and Senate in March 2010. Founder Clark was also recognized in March 2010 with an induction to the Florida Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nThe laboratory celebrated its 60th anniversary in 2015 and unveiled its first multi-year, comprehensive fundraising effort, \"Oceans of Opportunity: the Campaign for Mote Marine Laboratory\". Clark was still working as Senior Scientist, Director Emerita, and Trustee at the laboratory when she died in February 2015.\n\nAs of 2017, Mote employs more than 200 staff members, including Ph.D. scientists conducting research through more than 20 research programs (Coral Health & Disease; Chemical & Physical Ecology; Phytoplankton Ecology; Ocean Acidification; Marine & Fresh Water Aquaculture; Fisheries Habitat Ecology; Stranding Investigations; Ecotoxicology; Sharks & Rays Conservation Research; Fisheries Ecology & Enhancement; Coral Reef Monitoring & Assessment; Coral Reef Restoration; Environmental Health; Ocean Technology; Marine Immunology; Benthic Ecology; Marine Biomedical Research; Environmental Laboratory for Forensics; Sea Turtle Conservation & Research; Manatee Research; and the Sarasota Dolphin Research Program a partnership of the Chicago Zoological Society and Mote that conducts the world's longest-running study of a wild dolphin population.\n\nSince 1978, the Laboratory has expanded to include a campus in Sarasota, the Elizabeth Moore International Center for Coral Reef Research & Restoration on Summerland Key; a public exhibit in Key West; a Boca Grande Outreach Office; and Mote Aquaculture Research Park in eastern Sarasota County. In addition to staff members, Mote has about 1,400 volunteers who contribute more than 200,000 volunteer hours to the organization.\n\nMote Aquarium is the public outreach arm of Mote Marine Laboratory, displaying more than 100 marine species with a focus on species and ecosystems studied by Mote scientists. Mote Aquarium is accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, which accredits qualified facilities based on a rigorous application and inspection process focusing on animal care, conservation and science, facilities and more.\n\nThe Aquarium opened in 1980 on City Island in Sarasota Bay. Visitors can see sharks, manatees, sea turtles, seahorses, rays, skates and invertebrates including cuttlefish and/or octopuses, sea jellies, anemones and corals. Special exhibits such as \"Otters & Their Waters\" and \"The Teeth Beneath: The Wild World of Gators, Crocs and Caimans,\" highlight animals found in the watershed (land that drains into the ocean and other waterbodies), including North American river otters, American alligators and spectacled caimans. The special exhibit \"Oh Baby! Life Cycles of the Seas\" showcases marine courtship and reproduction, featuring babies of multiple species and highlighting their early-life survival challenges through an interactive game, a baby shark touch tank and other features. Though originally announced as a temporary exhibit, \"Oh Baby!\" has continued to operate at Mote (as of November 2017) due to a positive response from visitors. Mote Aquarium includes windows into Mote's working laboratories and interactive exhibits designed to make science accessible for all ages. The Aquarium hosts birthdays, weddings, corporate gatherings, and other events. Special group tours can be provided and are designed to show visitors how staff tend the animals and exhibits.\n\nThe Aquarium offers narrated shark feedings, in which large sharks are trained to go to specific targets for a food reward. Other resident animals, such as sea turtles and river otters, are similarly fed and trained during narrated sessions designed to enhance their care and provide healthy stimulation. All narrated training/feeding sessions at Mote are designed specifically for the animals' care, and in some cases, to allow behavioral research intended to inform conservation of wild populations.\n\nUntil 2011, Harley, the last recorded spinner dolphin in captivity so far, lived at Mote Aquarium.\n\nMote's Education, Aquarium and Outreach Division includes marine science school and public programs for all ages. Mote offers internships, summer camps, school visits, field trips, on-demand learning experiences, an annual Special Lecture Series featuring Mote scientists and other marine experts, and a digital-learning program called SeaTrek.TV, which connects Mote educators to students and other audiences via live videoconferencing, often using common programs such as Skype and Zoom, making scientific lessons accessible to classrooms across the U.S. and abroad.\n\nSome of Mote's newest offerings include enhanced adult learning programs such as professional development workshops for teachers. \n\nMote maintains multiple aquarium tanks at other southwest Florida facilities, including at the Sarasota–Bradenton International Airport between the information kiosk and the security checkpoint.\n\nA library has existed at Mote since the laboratory's beginnings in Cape Haze. The Arthur Vining Davis Library and Archives has been providing resources, reference materials, and research publications for more than 35 years at Mote Marine Laboratory. Its collections are maintained for the support of marine and environmental research and education. In addition to print and archival collections, the Library maintains searchable online, open-access institutional repositories of Mote staff publications, institutional papers, and items from historical collections.\n\nThe Library and Archives are open to the public for study and exploration. Appointments are suggested for library visitors and required for archival tours.\n\nMote's library is a member of the International Association of Aquatic and Marine Science Libraries and Information Centers (IAMSLIC), an association of individuals and organizations interested in library and information science, especially as these are applied to the recording, retrieval, and dissemination of knowledge and information in all aspects of aquatic and marine sciences and their allied disciplines.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2014, the laboratory produced \"Mote caviar\" (Siberian malossol osetra) from Siberian sturgeon at Mote Aquaculture Research Park in eastern Sarasota County as part of a demonstration of sustainable eco-sensitive aquaculture. On November 24, 2014, Mote announced the sale of their caviar production operation to Southeast Venture Holdings, LLC (Seven Holdings). Meanwhile, Mote continued to own the entire 200-acre Mote Aquaculture Research Park and continued its sustainable aquaculture and aquaponics research, emphasizing a range of goals from eco-friendly food production to restocking wild fish populations. In early 2017, Seven Holdings concluded its work with the Siberian sturgeon caviar for financial reasons, and the sturgeon program concluded. Meanwhile, Mote staff at the Park have continued research programs investigating marine aquaponics (growing fish and salt-tolerant \"sea vegetables\" in prototype greenhouses), examining the potential for aquaculture production of the Gulf of Mexico stock of almaco jack, examining the effects of probiotic supplements on survival of larval fish, and other projects designed to inform and contribute to the growth of sustainable, commercial aquaculture .\n\n"}
{"id": "1193292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1193292", "title": "National Labor Party", "text": "National Labor Party\n\nThe National Labor Party was formed by Australian Prime Minister Billy Hughes in 1916 following the 1916 Labor split on the issue of World War I conscription in Australia. Hughes had taken over as leader of the Australian Labor Party and Prime Minister of Australia when anti-conscriptionist Andrew Fisher resigned in 1915. He formed the new party for himself and his followers after he was expelled from the ALP a month after the 1916 plebiscite on conscription in Australia. Hughes held a pro-conscription stance in relation to World War I.\n\nOn 15 September 1916 the executive of the Political Labour League (the Labor Party organisation in New South Wales at the time) expelled Hughes from the Labor Party.\n\nWhen the Federal Parliamentary Labor caucus met on 14 November 1916, lengthy discussions ensued until Hughes walked out with 24 other Labor members; the remaining 43 members of Caucus then passed their motion of no confidence in the leadership, effectively expelling Hughes and the other members.\n\nHughes and his followers, who included several early Labor leaders, formed a minority government supported by the Commonwealth Liberal Party, led by another Labor dissident, Joseph Cook. Believing the Labor Party was no longer sufficiently nationalist, they began laying the groundwork for a new party that would be both socially radical and nationalist.\n\nIn 1917, Hughes and Cook turned their confidence-and-supply agreement into a formal party, the Nationalist Party of Australia. Hughes became the merged party's leader, with Cook as his deputy. Although it was essentially an upper- and middle-class party dominated by former Liberals, the presence of several Labor men allowed the party to project an image of national unity.\n\nThe National Labor Party was never formally constituted itself as a party and had no organisational structure, although some trade union officials and Labor Party branches, particularly in Western Australia and Tasmania, supported it.\n\nThe Labor Party avoided a split in Queensland due to the efforts of T. J. Ryan to minimise losses. Only one member of the state parliament, John Adamson, left the party and initially there was no attempt to create an alternate vehicle at the state level. However in October 1919 Adamson was part of the formation of a party for ex-Labor supporters that used the name. It had no electoral success and soon disappeared.\n\nThe National Labor movement in Western Australia started off as two separate groups—one known as the Labor Solidarity Committee based out of Trades Hall in Perth, and the other known as National Labor and based on the goldfields. The two merged in April–May 1917, with former Premier John Scaddan as their leader. However, by July he was without a seat in Parliament, and the party turned to Federal Senators Patrick Lynch, Hugh de Largie and George Pearce for leadership and guidance. Unlike its federal counterpart, it maintained its own distinct identity and structure and worked with the Nationalists as coalition partners. A number of Western Australian unions disaffiliated from the Australian Labor Federation to support the National Labor movement—most notably those representing the engine-drivers, railway employees, boilermakers and carpenters which were powerful in the goldfields. Organisationally, however, the party was believed to be over-dependent on its Senate patrons and struggled to build a genuine extraparliamentary organisation.\n\nThe party scored six of 50 Assembly seats in each of the 1917 and 1921 elections, and held three of 30 Council seats during this period. However, in the 1924 elections, their representation was reduced to one in the Assembly and two in the Council—many through the defeat of sitting NLP members by Labor candidates—and later that year, what remained of the Party was subsumed by the Nationalists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29402320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29402320", "title": "Neogeography", "text": "Neogeography\n\nNeogeography (literally \"new geography\") is the use of geographical techniques and tools for personal and community activities or by a non-expert group of users. Application domains of neogeography are typically not formal or analytical.\n\nFrom the point of view of human geography, neogeography could be also defined as the use of new specific information society tools, especially the Internet, to the aims and purposes of Geography as an academic discipline; in all branches of geographical thought and incorporating contributions from outside of Geography performed by non-specialist users in this discipline through the use of specific geographic ICT tools. This new definition, complementing previous ones, restores to academic Geography the leading role it should play when considering a renewal of the discipline with the rigor and right granted by its centuries-existence, but also includes the interesting social phenomenon of citizen participation in the geographical knowledge from its dual role: as undoubted possibility of enrichment for Geography and as social phenomenon with geographic interest.\n\nThe term \"neogeography\" has been used since at least 1922. In the early 1950s in the U.S. it was a term used in the sociology of production & work. The French philosopher François Dagognet used it in the title of his 1977 book \"Une Epistemologie de l'espace concret: Neo-geographie\". The word was first used in relation to the study of online communities in the 1990s by Kenneth Dowling, the Librarian of the City and County of San Francisco.\nImmediate precursor terms in the industry press were: \"the geospatial Web\" and \"the geoaware Web\" (both 2005); \"Where 2.0\" (2005); \"a dissident cartographic aesthetic\" and \"mapping and counter-mapping\" (2006). These terms arose with the concept of Web 2.0, around the increased public appeal of mapping and geospatial technologies that occurred with the release of such tools as \"slippy maps\" such as Google Maps, Google Earth, and also with the decreased cost of geolocated mobile devices such as GPS units. Subsequently, the use of geospatial technologies began to see increased integration with non-geographically focused applications.\n\nThe term neogeography was first defined in its contemporary sense by Randall Szott in 2006. He argued for a broad scope, to include artists, psychogeography, and more. The technically oriented aspects of the field, far more tightly defined than in Scott's definition, were outlined by Andrew Turner in his \"Introduction to Neogeography\" (O'Reilly, 2006). The contemporary use of the term, and the field in general, owes much of its inspiration to the locative media movement that sought to expand the use of location-based technologies to encompass personal expression and society.\n\nTraditional Geographic Information Systems historically have developed tools and techniques targeted towards formal applications that require precision and accuracy. By contrast, neogeography tends to apply to the areas of approachable, colloquial applications. The two realms can have overlap as the same problems are presented to different sets of users: experts and non-experts.\n\nNeogeography has also been connected with the increase in user-generated geographic content, closely related to Volunteered Geographic Information. This can be active collection of data such as OpenStreetMap or passive collection of user-data such as Flickr tags for folksonomic toponyms.\n\nThere is currently much debate about the scope and application of neogeography in the web mapping, geography, and GIS fields. Some of this discussion considers neogeography to be the ease of use of geographic tools and interfaces while other points focus on the domains of application.\n\nNeogeography is not limited to a specific technology and is not strictly web-based, so is not synonymous with web mapping though it is commonly conceived as such.\n\nA number of geographers and geoinformatics scientists (such as Mike Goodchild) have expressed strong reservations about the term \"neogeography\". They say that geography is an established scientific discipline; uses such as mashups and tags in Google Earth are not scientific works, but are better described as Volunteered Geographic Information.\n\nThere are also a great many artists and inter-disciplinary practitioners involved in an engagement with new forms of mapping and locative art. It is thus far wider than simply web mapping.\n\nThe applications of neogeography in geographical education were first explored by Papadimitriou (2010, 2010a), who also suggested a “Neogeographical education” to encompass all educational aspects of geoinformation over web and mobile platforms and devices.\n\n8. Papadimitriou, Fivos. (2010). Introduction to the Complex Geospatial Web in Geographical Education. International Research in Geographical and Environmental Education, 19(1),53-56. DOI: 10.1080/10382041003602928\n\n9. Papadimitriou, Fivos. (2010a). A “Neogeographical Education”? The Geospatial Web, GIS and Digital Art in Adult Education. International Research in Geographical and Environmental Education, 19(1),71-74. DOI: 10.1080/10382041003602969\n\n"}
{"id": "37928698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37928698", "title": "Orange Movement", "text": "Orange Movement\n\nThe Orange Movement (\"Movimento Arancione\", MA) is a political party in Italy.\n\nIt was launched on 12 December 2012 by Luigi de Magistris, mayor of Naples and until then member of Italy of Values (IdV). The founding convention of the party was attended by Antonio Ingroia (by telephone) and the leaders of the Communist Refoundation Party, the Party of Italian Communists and the Federation of the Greens.\n\n"}
{"id": "1817091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817091", "title": "Petrodollar recycling", "text": "Petrodollar recycling\n\nPetrodollar recycling is the international spending or investment of a country's revenues from petroleum exports (\"petrodollars\"). It generally refers to the phenomenon of major petroleum-exporting nations, mainly the OPEC members plus Russia and Norway, earning more money from the export of crude oil than they could efficiently invest in their own economies. The resulting global interdependencies and financial flows, from oil producers back to oil consumers, can reach a scale of hundreds of billions of US dollars per year – including a wide range of transactions in a variety of currencies, some pegged to the US dollar and some not. These flows are heavily influenced by government-level decisions regarding international investment and aid, with important consequences for both global finance and petroleum politics. The phenomenon is most pronounced during periods when the price of oil is historically high. \n\nThe term petrodollar was coined in the early 1970s during the oil crisis, and the first major petrodollar surge (1974–1981) resulted in more financial complications than the second (2005–2014).\n\nIn August 2018, Venezuela declared that it would price its oil in Euros, Yuan and other currencies.\n\nEspecially during the years 1974–1981 and 2005–2014, oil exporters amassed large surpluses of \"petrodollars\" from historically expensive oil. (The word has been credited alternately to Egyptian-American economist Ibrahim Oweiss and to former US Secretary of Commerce Peter G. Peterson, both in 1973.) These petrodollar surpluses could be described as net US dollar-equivalents earned from the export of petroleum, in excess of the internal development needs of the exporting nations. The surpluses could not be efficiently invested in their own economies, due to small populations or being at early stages of industrialization; but the surpluses could be usefully invested in other nations, or spent on imports such as consumer products, construction supplies, and military equipment. Alternatively, global economic growth would have suffered if that money was withdrawn from the world economy, while the oil-exporting nations needed to be able to invest profitably to raise their long-term standards of living.\n\nWhile petrodollar recycling reduced the short-term recessionary impact of the 1973 oil crisis, it caused problems especially for oil-importing countries that were paying much higher prices for oil, and incurring long-term debts. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimated that the foreign debts of 100 oil-importing developing countries increased by 150% between 1973 and 1977, complicated further by a worldwide shift to floating exchange rates. Johan Witteveen, the Managing Director of the IMF, said in 1974: \"The international monetary system is facing its most difficult period since the 1930s.\" The IMF administered a new lending program during 1974–1976 called the Oil Facility. Funded by oil-exporting nations and other lenders, it was available to nations suffering from acute problems with their balance of trade due to the rise in oil prices, notably including Italy and the UK as well as dozens of developing countries.\n\nFrom 1974 through 1981, the total current account surplus for all members of OPEC amounted to US$450 billion, without scaling-up for the subsequent decades of inflation. Ninety percent of this surplus was accumulated by the Arab countries of the Persian Gulf and Libya, with Iran also accumulating significant oil surpluses through 1978 before suffering the hardships of revolution, war and sanctions.\n\nLarge volumes of Arab petrodollars were invested directly in US Treasury securities and in other financial markets of the major industrial economies, often directed discreetly by government entities now known as sovereign wealth funds. Many billions of petrodollars were also invested through the major commercial banks of the US and Europe. In fact, the process contributed to the growth of the Eurodollar market as a less-regulated rival to US monetary markets. As the recessionary condition of the world economy made investment in corporations less attractive, bankers and well-financed governments lent much of the money directly to the governments of developing countries, especially in Latin America such as Brazil and Argentina as well as other major developing nations like Turkey. The 1973 oil crisis had created a vast dollar shortage in these countries; however, they still needed to finance their imports of oil and machinery. In early 1977, when Turkey stopped heating its prime minister's office, opposition leader Suleyman Demirel famously described the shortage as: \"Turkey is in need of 70 cents.\" As political journalist William Greider summarized the situation: \"Banks collected the deposits of revenue-rich OPEC governments and lent the money to developing nations so they could avoid bankruptcy.\" In subsequent decades, many of these developing nations found their accumulated debts to be unpayably large, concluding that it was a form of neocolonialism from which debt relief was the only escape.\n\nIn the 2005–2014 petrodollar surge, financial decision-makers were able to benefit somewhat from the lessons and experiences of the previous cycle. Developing economies generally stayed better balanced than they did in the 1970s; the world economy was less oil-intensive; and global inflation and interest rates were much better contained. Oil exporters opted to make most of their investments directly into a diverse array of global markets, and the recycling process was less dependent on intermediary channels such as international banks and the IMF.\n\nThanks to the historic oil price increases of 2003–2008, OPEC revenues approximated an unprecedented US$1 trillion per year in 2008 and 2011–2014. Beyond the OPEC countries, substantial surpluses also accrued to Russia and Norway, and sovereign wealth funds worldwide amassed US$7 trillion by 2014–2015. Some oil exporters were unable to reap the full benefits, as the national economies of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Nigeria and Venezuela all suffered from multi-year political obstacles associated with what economists call the \"resource curse\". Most of the other large exporters accumulated enough financial reserves to cushion the shock when oil prices and petrodollar surpluses fell sharply again from an oil supply glut in 2014–2017.\n\nOil-exporting countries have used part of their petrodollar surpluses to fund foreign aid programs, as a prominent example of so-called \"checkbook diplomacy\" or \"petro-Islam\". The Kuwait Fund was an early leader since 1961, and certain Arab nations became some of the largest donors in the years since 1974, including through the IMF and the OPEC Fund for International Development. Oil exporters have also aided poorer nations indirectly through the personal remittances sent home by tens of millions of foreign workers in the Middle East, although their working conditions are generally harsh. Even more controversially, several oil exporters have been major financial supporters of armed groups challenging the governments of other countries.\n\nHigh-priced oil allowed the USSR to support the struggling economies of the Soviet bloc during the 1974–1981 petrodollar surge, and the loss of income during the 1980s oil glut contributed to the bloc's collapse in 1989. During the 2005–2014 petrodollar surge, OPEC member Venezuela played a similar role supporting Cuba and other regional allies, before the 2014–2017 oil downturn brought Venezuela to its own economic crisis.\n\nThese images illustrate the diversity of major petrodollar recycling activities, in roughly chronological order:\n"}
{"id": "20981325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20981325", "title": "Preventive state", "text": "Preventive state\n\nA preventive state is a type of sovereign state or policy enacted by a state in which people deemed potentially dangerous are apprehended, and have their freedom restricted, before being able to commit a crime. Insofar as it differs from passive attempts to prevent criminal behaviour (i.e., statutes that regulate behaviour), it has been referred to by Eric S. Janus as \"radical prevention\". Its opposite is the punitive state, or any punitive methods, under which criminals are punished after a criminal act has been committed. To the extent that punitive methods often involve incarceration, thereby preventing further crimes being committed by the individual, they can also be considered preventive. Michael L. Rich further defines as the \"perfect preventive state\" a situation in which targeted criminal conduct is made impossible by the mandates of government.\n\nThere is a wide scope for the use of preventive methods, which is constantly increased by developing technologies; in-vehicle technology responding to a user's blood alcohol level (BAL) and restricting use; restrictive measures in the infrastructure of the world wide web (i.e., preventing users' being able to illegally download music). Several countries have deployed them as a means of anti-terrorism in the wake of terrorist attacks; preventive measures can include intelligence gathering, detention and interrogation. Suicide terrorism is an example where a more preventive model is required because punishment of the individual after the crime is not possible, especially since most democracies are committed to principles of individual guilt and can not punish friends or relatives for the crimes of the individual.\n\nPreventive policies have raised serious concerns about liberty and freedom in modern democracies, and continue to generate debate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "689475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=689475", "title": "Provinces of Sri Lanka", "text": "Provinces of Sri Lanka\n\nIn Sri Lanka, provinces (; ) are the first level administrative division. They were first established by the British rulers of Ceylon in 1833. Over the next century most of the administrative functions were transferred to the districts, the second level administrative division. By the middle of the 20th century the provinces had become merely ceremonial. This changed in 1987 when, following several decades of increasing demand for a decentralization, the 13th Amendment to the 1978 Constitution of Sri Lanka established provincial councils. Currently there are nine provinces.\n\nAfter the British took control of the entire island of Ceylon in 1815 it was divided into three ethnic based administrative structures: Low Country Sinhalese, Kandyan Sinhalese and Tamil. In 1829 the British established the Colebrooke–Cameron Commission to review the colonial government of Ceylon, including its administrative structures. The Commission recommended that the existing three ethnic based administrations be unified into a single administration divided into five geographic provinces. Accordingly, on 1 October 1833 five provinces under one administration came into being:\n\n\nOver the next fifty years four additional provinces were created, taking the total number to nine:\n\nThe number of provinces remained static until September 1988 when, in accordance with the Indo-Lanka Accord, President Jayewardene issued proclamations enabling the Northern and Eastern provinces to be one administrative unit administered by one elected Council, creating the North Eastern Province. The proclamations were only meant to be a temporary measure until a referendum was held in the Eastern Province on a permanent merger between the two provinces. However, the referendum was never held and successive Sri Lankan presidents issued proclamations annually extending the life of the \"temporary\" entity. The merger was bitterly opposed by Sri Lankan nationalists. On 14 July 2006, after a long campaign against the merger, the JVP filed three separate petitions with the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka requesting a separate Provincial Council for the East. On 16 October 2006 the Supreme Court ruled that the proclamations issued by President Jayewardene were null and void and had no legal effect. The North-East Province was formally de-merged into the Northern and Eastern provinces on 1 January 2007.\n\nSri Lanka currently has nine provinces, seven of which have had provincial councils from the start.\n\nAll population data are from the most recent census of Sri Lanka, in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "14434839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14434839", "title": "Rashid Nugmanov", "text": "Rashid Nugmanov\n\nRashid Nugmanov (also written Rachid Nougmanov; ; born March 19, 1954 in Alma-Ata, Kazakhstan) is a Kazakh film director, dissident, political activist and founder of the cinema movement.\n\nAfter graduating in 1977 from the Architectural Institute in Alma-Ata, Nugmanov enrolled at the prestigious Moscow State Film Institute (VGIK), the world's first institute of cinematography in 1984. His directorial debut, \"The Needle\", premiered in September 1988 at the \"Golden Duke\" Festival in Odessa, where it won the Un Certain Regard prize. Starring popular Soviet rock musician Viktor Tsoi, it was one of the first films to break the taboo against talking about drug addiction in the Soviet Union. The film was released in the USSR in February 1989 with 1,000 prints in circulation and became a box office hit viewed by over 30 million cinemagoers. The film was also a critical success, winning First Prize at the Nuremberg Film Festival and initiating the \"Kazakh New Wave\". He declared, in 1990, the motto of the New Wave of Kazakh cinema: \"We demand no unified philosophy nor uniform artistic views on art. We are unified, instead, in our freedom and love of art\". Nugmanov served as President of the Union of Kazakh Filmmakers from 1989 until 1992, when he wrote, directed and produced \"The Wild East\", a post-apocalyptic punk samurai Ostern which attracted international acclaim at film festivals in Venice, Los Angeles, and Tokyo, and was awarded the Prix Special du Jury in Valenciennes, France. The film marked the end of both the Kazakh New Wave and Nugmanov's active directorial career, although he continued to write screenplays throughout the 1990s.\n\nNugmanov moved to Paris, France in 1993 and currently serves as the General Director of the International Freedom Network, a London-based think tank created to foster democracy in the former Soviet Union. A harsh critic of the political regime of Nursultan Nazarbaev, which he has decried as a mafia, Nugmanov has been responsible for the international relations of dissident organisations including the Forum for Democratic Forces of Kazakhstan and Central Asia, Republican People's Party of Kazakhstan, Democratic Choice of Kazakhstan, and For a Just Kazakhstan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41983594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41983594", "title": "Rich Serbia", "text": "Rich Serbia\n\nRich Serbia (Serbian: Богата Србија/ \"Bogata Srbija\", BS) is a political party in the Republic of Serbia. It was founded in 2011 by journalist and celebrity agriculturist Zaharije Trnavčević. \n\nThe goal of the party was to appeal to agronomists and entrepreneurs. Its policies were agrarian and included tripling the agricultural subsidy.\n\nIts founding assembly was held on 22 January, and the party was formally registered on 5 June 2011.\n\nIn the 2012 election, BS ran as part of the U-Turn political alliance led by Čedomir Jovanović, the head of the Liberal Democratic Party and won 1 seat. However, almost immediately after the election, it broke from the coalition and joined the parliamentary majority with the Progressives and Socialists, siding with the government of Ivica Dačić, which it continued to support until the 2014 election.\n\nIn the 2014 election the party ran in coalition with the Democratic Party and won no seats.\n\nIn January 2015 the party reached an agreement on beginning cooperation with the Third Serbia political movement led by Miroslav Parović. The party is \"de facto\" nonexistent as it was renamed Third Serbia - Rich Serbia (Serbian: Трећа Србија -Богата Србија) and is now led by Parović, effectively a merger of the two groups. This was opposed by some members of Third Serbia, and they split into a new movement called the Serbian League led by Aleksandar Đurđev.\n"}
{"id": "332473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332473", "title": "Rights of Man", "text": "Rights of Man\n\nRights of Man (1791), a book by Thomas Paine, including 31 articles, posits that popular political revolution is permissible when a government does not safeguard the natural rights of its people. Using these points as a base it defends the French Revolution against Edmund Burke's attack in \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790).\n\nIt was published in two parts in March 1791 and February 1792.\n\nPaine was a very strong supporter of the French Revolution that began in 1789; he visited France the following year. Many English thinkers supported it, including Richard Price, who initiated the Revolution Controversy with his sermon and pamphlet drawing favourable parallels between the Glorious Revolution of 1688 and the French Revolution. Conservative intellectual Edmund Burke responded with a counter-revolutionary attack entitled \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790), which strongly appealed to the landed class and sold 30,000 copies. Paine's \"Rights of Man\" was printed by Joseph Johnson for publication on 21 February 1791, then withdrawn for fear of prosecution. J. S. Jordan stepped in and published it on 16 March. The 90,000-word book appeared on 13 March, three weeks later than scheduled. It sold as many as one million copies and was \"eagerly read by reformers, Protestant dissenters, democrats, London craftsman, and the skilled factory-hands of the new industrial north\".\n\nPaine argues that the interests of the monarch and his people are united, and insists that the French Revolution should be understood as one which attacks the despotic principles of the French monarchy, not the king himself, and he takes the Bastille, the main prison in Paris, to symbolise the despotism that had been overthrown.\n\nHuman rights originate in Nature, thus, rights cannot be granted via political charter, because that implies that rights are legally revocable, hence, would be privileges:\n\nGovernment's sole purpose is safeguarding the individual and his/her inherent, inalienable rights; each societal institution that does not benefit the nation is illegitimate—especially monarchy and aristocracy. The book's acumen derives from the Age of Enlightenment and has been linked to the \"Second Treatise of Government\", by John Locke (even though Paine himself claimed to have never read this work).\n\nThe fuller development of this position seems to have been worked out one night in France after an evening spent with Thomas Jefferson, and possibly Lafayette, discussing a pamphlet by the Philadelphia conservative James Wilson on the proposed federal constitution.\n\n\"Rights of Man\" concludes in proposing practical reformations of English government: a written Constitution composed by a national assembly, in the American mould; the elimination of aristocratic titles, because democracy is incompatible with primogeniture, which leads to the despotism of the family; a national budget without allotted military and war expenses; lower taxes for the poor, and subsidised education for them; and a progressive income tax weighted against wealthy estates to prevent the re-emergence of a hereditary aristocracy.\n\nPrincipally, \"Rights of Man\" opposes the idea of hereditary government—the belief that dictatorial government is necessary, because of man's corrupt, essential nature. In \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790) Edmund Burke says that true social stability arises if the nation's poor majority are governed by a minority of wealthy aristocrats, and that lawful inheritance of power (wealth, religious, governing) ensured the propriety of political power being the exclusive domain of the nation's élite social class—the nobility.\n\n\"Rights of Man\" denounces Burke's assertion of the nobility's inherent \"hereditary wisdom\"; countering the implication that a nation has not a right to form a Government for governing itself. Paine refutes Burke's definition of Government as \"a contrivance of human wisdom\". Instead, Paine argues that Government is a contrivance of man, and it follows that hereditary succession and hereditary rights to govern cannot compose a Government—because the wisdom to govern cannot be inherited.\n\nEdmund Burke's counter-revolutionary \"Reflections on the French Revolution\" delineates the legitimacy of aristocratic government to the 1688 Parliamentary resolution declaring William and Mary of Orange—and their heirs—to be the true rulers of England. Paine puts forward two arguments against this view. Firstly, he argues that \"Every age and generation must be as free to act for itself in all cases as the age and generations which preceded it.\" Secondly, Paine counters that the institution of monarchy should not be historically traced from 1688, but from 1066, when William of Normandy forcibly imposed his Norman rule upon Englishmen.\n\nThomas Paine's intellectual influence is perceptible in the two great political revolutions of the eighteenth century. He dedicated \"Rights of Man\" to George Washington and to the Marquis de Lafayette, acknowledging the importance of the American and the French revolutions in his formulating the principles of modern democratic governance.\n\nThus, the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen\" (\"Déclaration des droits de l'Homme et du citoyen\") can be encapsulated so: (1) Men are born, and always continue, free and equal in respect of their rights. Civil distinctions, therefore, can be founded only on public utility; (2) The end of all political associations is the preservation of the natural and imprescriptible rights of man; and these rights are liberty, property, security, and resistance of oppression; and (3) The nation is essentially the source of all sovereignty; neither can any individual, nor any body of men, be entitled to any authority, which is not expressly derived from it.\n\nThese capsulations are akin to the self-evident truths concept that the U.S. Declaration of Independence expresses.\n\nAccording to Mark Philp, \"In many respects \"Rights of Man\" is a disordered mix of narrative, principled argument, and rhetorical appeal—betraying the composite materials Paine used and the speed with which it was composed.\"\n\nIt was quickly reprinted and widely circulated, with copies being read aloud in inns and coffee houses, so that by May some 50,000 copies were said to be in circulation. Of the 300 or more pamphlets which the revolution controversy spawned, \"Rights of Man\" was the first to seriously damage Burke's case and to restore credit to the French both in Britain and America.\n\nThe publication of \"Rights of Man\" caused a furore in England; Paine was tried \"in absentia\", and convicted of seditious libel against the Crown, but was unavailable for hanging, being in France and never returning to England. (Sir Archibald Macdonald, 1st Baronet served as the prosecutor.)\n\nThomas Paine was not the only advocate of the rights of man or the only author of a work titled \"Rights of Man\". The working-class radical, Thomas Spence, is among the first, in England, to use the phrase as a title. His 1775 lecture, usually titled \"The Rights of Man\", and his later \"The Rights of Infants\", offer a proto-geoist take on political philosophy mirroring Paine's work Agrarian Justice. Paine's acquaintance Mary Wollstonecraft, whom he met via their common publisher, wrote \"A Vindication of the Rights of Men\" as one of the very first responses to Burke's attack on Richard Price. Her work was in print in December 1790, and was well reviewed. She extended the arguments in the book for which she is best remembered, the 1792 \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52584230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52584230", "title": "Roberto Kozak", "text": "Roberto Kozak\n\nRoberto Kozak (14 May 1942 – September 2015) was an Argentinian diplomat and humanitarian, of Ukrainian descent, notable for his work to rescue people from the prisons and death squads of the Chilean military dictatorship. Kozak was a recipient of the Order of Bernardo O'Higgins with the rank Grand Cross, Chile's highest honour for non-Chilean civilians.\n\n"}
{"id": "3680621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3680621", "title": "Rolling election", "text": "Rolling election\n\nRolling elections are elections in which all representatives in a body are elected, but these elections are spread over a period of time rather than all at once. Examples are the presidential primaries in the United States, the Bundesrat in Germany and, due to logistics, general elections in Lebanon and India. The voting procedure in the Legislative Assemblies of the Roman Republic are also a classical example.\n\nIn rolling elections, voters have information about previous voters' choices. While in the first elections, there may be plenty of hopeful candidates, in the last rounds consensus on one winner is generally achieved. In today's context of rapid communication, presidential candidates can put disproportionate resources into competing strongly in the first few stages, because those stages affect the reaction of latter stages.\n"}
{"id": "57313946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57313946", "title": "Secretary of State (Mexico)", "text": "Secretary of State (Mexico)\n\nIn the United Mexican States, the federal executive power of the government is exercised by the president of the republic whose official denomination is \"Constitutional President of the United Mexican States\", to carry out the development of its powers and functions, the president has the power to freely appoint members of his cabinet, each of which is the head of a secretariat of state that is responsible for a branch of the federal public administration; and the organization of these agencies and the powers that each have, are set by the Organic Law of the Federal Public Administration (in Spanish).\n\nThe federal public administration is centralized and parastatal in accordance with the organic law issued by the Congress, which distributes the administrative business of the federation among the state secretaries who constitute the cabinet in Mexico. The Secretaries of State are appointed by the President of the United Mexican States. The President may convene the meetings of secretaries of state and other competent officials when it comes to defining or evaluating the policy of the Federal Government in matters that are the concurrent competence of several agencies, or entities of the federal public administration.\n\n\n^^. The holders of the delegations will be appointed by the head of the respective agency or entity and will have the powers indicated by their internal regulations or the legal regulations for the creation of parastatal entities.\n\n\nMany secretariats have been changing their name with the passage of time, as a reflection of the change that each president intends to exercise on the government, its priorities and changes of programs and objectives, however some Secretariats have disappeared completely, their faculties being absorbed by another dependence, these are the following cases:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43349738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43349738", "title": "Socialism in One Country", "text": "Socialism in One Country\n\nSocialism in One Country was a theory put forth by Joseph Stalin and Nikolai Bukharin in 1924 which was eventually adopted by the Soviet Union as state policy. The theory held that given the defeat of all the communist revolutions in Europe in 1917–1923 except Russia, the Soviet Union should begin to strengthen itself internally. That turn toward national communism was a shift from the previously held position by classical Marxism that socialism must be established globally (world communism). However, proponents of the theory argue that it contradicts neither world revolution nor world communism. The theory was in opposition to Leon Trotsky's theory of permanent revolution.\n\nThe defeat of several proletarian revolutions in countries like Germany and Hungary ended Bolsheviks' hopes for an imminent world revolution and began promotion of socialism in one country by Stalin. In the first edition of the book \"Osnovy Leninizma\" (\"Foundations of Leninism\", 1924), Stalin was still a follower of Vladimir Lenin's idea that revolution in one country is insufficient. Lenin died in January 1924 and by the end of that year in the second edition of the book Stalin's position started to turn around as he claimed the \"proletariat can and must build the socialist society in one country\". In April 1925, Nikolai Bukharin elaborated the issue in his brochure \"Can We Build Socialism in One Country in the Absence of the Victory of the West-European Proletariat?\". The Soviet Union adopted socialism in one country as state policy after Stalin's January 1926 article \"On the Issues of Leninism\". 1925–1926 signaled a shift in the immediate activity of the Comintern (the Communist International) from world revolution towards a defense of the Soviet state. This period was known up to 1928 as the \"Second Period\", mirroring the shift in the Soviet Union from war communism to the New Economic Policy. In his 1915 article \"On the Slogan for a United States of Europe\", Lenin had written: Uneven economic and political development is an absolute law of capitalism. Hence, the victory of socialism is possible first in several or even in one capitalist country alone. After expropriating the capitalists and organising their own socialist production, the victorious proletariat of that country will arise against the rest of the world.\n\nIn 1918, Lenin wrote: I know that there are, of course, sages who think they are very clever and even call themselves Socialists, who assert that power should not have been seized until the revolution had broken out in all countries. They do not suspect that by speaking in this way they are deserting the revolution and going over to the side of the bourgeoisie. To wait until the toiling classes bring about a revolution on an international scale means that everybody should stand stock-still in expectation. That is nonsense.\nAfter Lenin's death, Stalin used these quotes and others to argue that Lenin shared his view of socialism in one country. Grigory Zinoviev and Leon Trotsky vigorously criticized the theory of socialism in one country. In particular, Trotskyists often claimed and still claim that socialism in one country opposes both the basic tenets of Marxism and Lenin's particular beliefs that the final success of socialism in one country depends upon the revolution's degree of success in proletarian revolutions in the more advanced countries of Western Europe. At the Seventh Congress in March 1918, Lenin explained:Regarded from the world-historical point of view, there would doubtlessly be no hope of the ultimate victory of our revolution if it were to remain alone, if there were no revolutionary movements in other countries [...] I repeat, our salvation from all these difficulties is an all Europe revolution [...] At all events, under all conceivable circumstances, if the German revolution does not come, we are doomed. \n\nHowever, proponents of socialism in one country assert that though initially optimistic about the prospect of a communist revolution in Germany (which eventually never came), Lenin had strongly opposed banking solely on Western European revolutions to come to the rescue of the beleaguered Russian communists that too at such a definite and early date. They assert that Lenin had advocated a more pragmatic path for the revolution and its pilot, the R.C.P (B), that was based on building a close alliance between the proletariat and the peasantry (the proletariat being in the lead) and construction of complete socialism in Russia whilst patiently awaiting and aiding the class struggle to first mature around the world before a proletarian revolution on a worldwide scale is made plausible. \n\nTo support this assertion, they quote Lenin's own words at the selfsame Seventh Congress in March 1918: Yes, we shall see the world revolution, but for the time being it is a very good fairy-tale, a very beautiful fairy-tale—I quite understand children liking beautiful fairy-tales. But I ask, is it proper for a serious revolutionary to believe in fairy-tales? There is an element of reality in every fairy-tale. If you told children fairy-tales in which the cock and the cat did not converse in human language they would not be interested. In the same way, if you tell the people that civil war will break out in Germany and also guarantee that instead of a clash with imperialism we shall have a field revolution on a world-wide scale, the people will say you are deceiving them. In doing this you will be overcoming the difficulties with which history has confronted us only in your own minds, by your own wishes. It will be a good thing if the German proletariat is able to take action. But have you measured it, have you discovered an instrument that will show that the German revolution will break out on such-and-such a day? [...] If the revolution breaks out, everything is saved. Of course! But if it does not turn out as we desire, if it does not achieve victory tomorrow—what then? Then the masses will say to you, you acted like gamblers—you staked everything on a fortunate turn of events that did not take place, you proved to be unequal to the situation that actually arose instead of the world revolution, which will inevitably come, but which has not yet reached maturity\n\nThey also cite his 1918 \"Letter to American Workers\" in which he wrote: We are banking on the inevitability of the world revolution, but this does not mean that we are such fools as to bank on the revolution inevitably coming on a definite and early date.\n\nStalin presented the theory of socialism in one country as a further development of Leninism based on Lenin's aforementioned quotations.\n\nIn his 14 February 1938 \"Response to Comrade Ivanov\", formulated as an answer to a question of a \"comrade Ivanov\" mailed to \"Pravda\" newspaper, Stalin splits the question in two parts. The first side of the question is in terms of the internal relations within the Soviet Union, whether it is possible to construct the socialist society by defeating the local bourgeoisie and fostering the union of workers and peasants.\n\nStalin quotes Lenin that \"we have everything necessary to construct the complete socialism\" and claims that the socialist society has for the most part been indeed constructed. The second side of the question is in terms of external relations and whether the victory of the socialism is \"final\", i.e. whether capitalism cannot possibly be restored. Here, Stalin cites Lenin that the final victory is possible only on the international scale and only with the help of the workers of other countries.\n\nOn the question of socialist construction in a single country, Friedrich Engels wrote: \n\nNo. By creating the world market, big industry has already brought all the peoples of the Earth, and especially the civilized peoples, into such close relation with one another that none is independent of what happens to the others. Further, it has co-ordinated the social development of the civilized countries to such an extent that, in all of them, bourgeoisie and proletariat have become the decisive classes, and the struggle between them the great struggle of the day. It follows that the communist revolution will not merely be a national phenomenon but must take place simultaneously in all civilized countries—that is to say, at least in England, America, France, and Germany. It will develop in each of these countries more or less rapidly, according as one country or the other has a more developed industry, greater wealth, a more significant mass of productive forces. Hence, it will go slowest and will meet most obstacles in Germany, most rapidly and with the fewest difficulties in England. It will have a powerful impact on the other countries of the world, and will radically alter the course of development which they have followed up to now, while greatly stepping up its pace. It is a universal revolution and will, accordingly, have a universal range.\n\nHowever, a year later Karl Marx and Engels claimed: The Communists are further reproached with desiring to abolish countries and nationalities. The working men have no country. We cannot take from them what they have not got. Since the proletariat must first of all acquire political supremacy, must rise to be the leading class of the nation, must constitute itself the nation, it is, so far, itself national, though not in the bourgeois sense of the word.\n\nIn 1882, Marx and Engels wrote: If the Russian Revolution becomes the signal for a proletarian revolution in the West, so that both complement each other, the present Russian common ownership of land may serve as the starting point for a communist development.\n\nThe slogan was parodied in the novel \"Moscow 2042,\" where \"Communism in one city\" was built.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10808700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10808700", "title": "State Agricultural Farm", "text": "State Agricultural Farm\n\nA State Agricultural Farm (, PGR) was a form of collective farming in the People's Republic of Poland, similar to Soviet sovkhoz and to the East German Volkseigenes Gut.\n\nThey were created in 1949 as a form of socialist ownership of agricultural land by the government. They were primarily formed on the \"Regained Territories\" - lands that Poland acquired from Germany after the Second World War - but existed throughout Poland. Some farms took over farms of monasteries, e.g. in Szczyrzyc, see the picture. Relatively inefficient and subsidized by the government, most PGRs went bankrupt quickly after the fall of communism and adoption of a market economy by Poland.\n\nThe state ran many specialised farms, which bred and trained horses (especially Arabians, e.g. Bask), bred cows, fishes, produced certified seed and potatoes. Some of the farms were state ones before the World War II. Many of the specialised farms still exist, controlled by the Agricultural Property Agency.\n\nFarms were created primarily on the basis of the earlier estates. Many of these households were founded on the \"Regained Territories\". Low efficiency of work and extensive social benefits for workers in many cases led to disastrous management with low productivity, causing state deficit.\n\nAfter moving to the market economy under the Act of October 19, 1991 on agricultural property of the Treasury collective farms were liquidated and their assets were taken over by the Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury (now Agricultural Property Agency), and their workers - 300 to 450 thousand people - joined the ranks of the unemployed. Households that have not been sold or leased were administered by the Agency of the State Treasury and managed by administrators appointed by the Agency. Then sought to sell or lease property holdings and the accompanying holdings, such as apartments, holiday resorts, etc. The social base has also been a sale of land to individual farmers. The weakest part of the land remained undeveloped for several years. The process of selling and leasing land societies and social services continues.\n\nLiquidation of state-owned farms has often been restricted, or permanent abandonment of animal husbandry, crop production limitation, changes in farming methods. This led to a drastic reduction of jobs and the resulting wide range of local problems; in many regions, PGR were the only employer, the new owners after restructuring usually significantly reduced the employment. State-owned farms were very often the organizers of social life, and theoretically adequately met all the needs of workers. Their downfall has often caused damage to the structure of the local communities, which were not adapted to the new situation of economic activity. It has also devastated the property - partly as a result of theft, partly because of the lack of elementary security.\n\nOn 22 July 2008 in Bolegorzyn, near Złocieniec a museum of the State Farms was opened.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "844779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844779", "title": "State atheism", "text": "State atheism\n\nState atheism is the incorporation of positive atheism or non-theism into political regimes, particularly associated with Soviet systems. In contrast, a secular state purports to be officially neutral in matters of religion, supporting neither religion nor irreligion. State atheism may refer to a government's anti-clericalism, which opposes religious institutional power and influence in all aspects of public and political life, including the involvement of religion in the everyday life of the citizen.\n\nThe majority of Marxist–Leninist states followed similar policies from 1917. The Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (1917–1991), and the Soviet Union (1922–1991) more broadly, had a long history of state atheism, whereby those seeking social success generally had to profess atheism and to stay away from houses of worship; this trend became especially militant during the middle Stalinist era from 1929 to 1939. The Soviet Union attempted to suppress public religious expression over wide areas of its influence, including places such as central Asia. Currently, only China, Cuba, North Korea and Vietnam are officially atheist.\n\nA communist state, in popular usage, is a state with a form of government characterized by one-party rule or dominant-party rule of a communist party and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist communist ideology as the guiding principle of the state. The founder and primary theorist of Marxism, the nineteenth-century German thinker Karl Marx, had an ambivalent attitude toward religion, viewing it primarily as \"the opium of the people\" that had been used by the ruling classes to give the working classes false hope for millennia, whilst at the same time recognizing it as a form of protest by the working classes against their poor economic conditions. In the Marxist–Leninist interpretation of Marxist theory, developed primarily by Russian revolutionary Vladimir Lenin, religion is seen as negative to human development, and communist states that follow a Marxist–Leninist variant are atheistic and explicitly antireligious. Lenin states:\n\nAlthough Marx and Lenin were both atheists, several religious communist groups exist, including Christian communists.\n\nJulian Baggini devotes a chapter of his book \"Atheism A Very Short Introduction\" to discussion of 20th century political systems, including communism and political repression in the Soviet Union. Baggini argues that \"Soviet communism, with its active oppression of religion, is a distortion of original Marxist communism, which did not advocate oppression of the religious.\" Baggini goes on to argue that \"Fundamentalism is a danger in any belief system\" and that \"Atheism's most authentic political expression... takes the form of state secularism, not state atheism.\"\n\nState atheism, (\"gosateizm\", a syllabic abbreviation of \"state\" (\"gosudarstvo\") and \"atheism\" (\"ateizm\")), was a major goal of the official Soviet ideology. To that end, the regime expropriated church property, publication of information against religious beliefs and the official promotion of anti-religious materials in the education system.\n\nAfter the Russian Civil War, the state used its resources to stop the implanting of religious beliefs in nonbelievers and remove \"prerevolutionary remnants\" that still existed. The Bolsheviks were particularly hostile toward the Russian Orthodox Church (which supported the White Movement during the Russian Civil War) and saw it as a supporter of Tsarist autocracy. During a process of collectivization of land, Orthodox priests distributed pamphlets declaring that the Soviet regime was the Antichrist coming to place \"the Devil's mark\" on the peasants, and encouraged them to resist the government. Political repression was widespread in the Soviet Union, and while religious persecution was applied to most religions, the regime's anti-religious campaigns were often directed against specific religions based on state interests, that varied over time. The attitude in the Soviet Union toward religion varied from a total ban on some religions to official support of others.\n\nFrom the late 1920s to the late 1930s, such organizations as the League of Militant Atheists ridiculed all religions and harassed believers. Anti-religious and atheistic propaganda was implemented into every portion of soviet life: in schools, communist organizations such as the Young Pioneer Organization, and the media. Though Lenin originally introduced the Gregorian calendar to the Soviets, subsequent efforts to reorganise the week to improve worker productivity saw the introduction of the Soviet calendar, which had the side-effect that a \"holiday will seldom fall on Sunday\".\n\nWithin about a year of the revolution, the state expropriated all church property, including the churches themselves, and in the period from 1922 to 1926, 28 Russian Orthodox bishops and more than 1,200 priests were killed (a much greater number was subjected to persecution). Most seminaries were closed, and publication of religious writing was banned. The Russian Orthodox Church, which had 54,000 parishes before World War I, was reduced to 500 by 1940. A meeting of the Antireligious Commission of the Central Committee of the All-Union Communist Party (Bolsheviks) that occurred on 23 May 1929 estimated the portion of believers in the USSR at 80 percent, though this percentage may be understated to prove the successfulness of the struggle with religion.\n\nDespite the Soviet Union's attempts to eliminate religion, other former USSR and anti-religious nations, such as Armenia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Belarus, Moldova, and Georgia have high religious populations. Author Niels Christian Nielsen has written that the post-Soviet population in areas which were formerly predominantly Orthodox are now \"nearly illiterate regarding religion\", almost completely lacking the intellectual or philosophical aspects of their faith and having almost no knowledge of other faiths. Nonetheless, their knowledge of their faith and the faith of others notwithstanding, many post-Soviet populations have a large presence of religious followers.\n\nToday in the Russian Federation, approximately 100 million citizens consider themselves Russian Orthodox Christians, amounting to 70% of the population, although the Church claims a membership of 80 million. According to the CIA Factbook, however, only 17% to 22% of the population is now Christian. According to a poll by the Russian Public Opinion Research Center, 63% of respondents considered themselves Russian Orthodox, 6% of respondents considered themselves Muslim and less than 1% considered themselves either Buddhist, Catholic, Protestant or Jewish. Another 12% said they believe in God, but did not practice any religion, and 16% said they are non-believers. In Ukraine, 96.1% of the Ukrainian population is Christian. In Lithuania, the only Catholic country which was once a Soviet republic, a 2005 report stated that 79% of Lithuanians belonged to the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nReligion in Albania was subordinated to the interests of nationalism during periods of national revival, when it was identified as foreign predation to Albanian culture. During the late nineteenth century, and also when Albania became a state, religions were suppressed in order to better unify Albanians. This nationalism was also used to justify the communist stance of state atheism from 1967 to 1991. The Agrarian Reform Law of August 1945 nationalized most property of religious institutions, including the estates of mosques, monasteries, orders, and dioceses. Many clergy and believers were tried and some were executed. All foreign Roman Catholic priests, monks, and nuns were expelled in 1946.\n\nReligious communities or branches that had their headquarters outside the country, such as the Jesuit and Franciscan orders, were henceforth ordered to terminate their activities in Albania. Religious institutions were forbidden to have anything to do with the education of the young, because that had been made the exclusive province of the state. All religious communities were prohibited from owning real estate and from operating philanthropic and welfare institutions and hospitals.\nAlthough there were tactical variations in Enver Hoxha's approach to each of the major denominations, his overarching objective was the eventual destruction of all organized religion in Albania. Between 1945 and 1953, the number of priests was reduced drastically and the number of Roman Catholic churches was decreased from 253 to 100, and all Catholics were stigmatized as fascists.\n\nThe campaign against religion peaked in the 1960s. Beginning in February 1967 the Albanian authorities launched a campaign to eliminate religious life in Albania. Despite complaints, even by APL members, all churches, mosques, monasteries, and other religious institutions were either closed down or converted into warehouses, gymnasiums, or workshops by the end of 1967. By May 1967, religious institutions had been forced to relinquish all 2,169 churches, mosques, cloisters, and shrines in Albania, many of which were converted into cultural centers for young people. As the literary monthly Nendori reported the event, the youth had thus \"created the first atheist nation in the world.\"\n\nClerics were publicly vilified and humiliated, their vestments were taken and desecrated. More than 200 clerics of various faiths were imprisoned, others were forced to seek work in either industry or agriculture, and some were executed or starved to death. The cloister of the Franciscan order in Shkodër was set on fire, which resulted in the death of four elderly monks.\n\nArticle 37 of the Albanian Constitution of 1976 stipulated, \"The state recognizes no religion, and supports atheistic propaganda in order to implant a scientific materialistic world outlook in people.\", and the penal code of 1977 imposed prison sentences of three to ten years for \"religious propaganda and the production, distribution, or storage of religious literature.\" A new decree that in effect targeted Albanians with Muslim and Christian names, stipulating that citizens whose names did not conform to \"the political, ideological, or moral standards of the state\" were to change them. It was also decreed that towns and villages with religious names must be renamed. Hoxha's brutal antireligious campaign succeeded in eradicating formal worship, but some Albanians continued to practice their faith clandestinely, risking severe punishment. Individuals caught with Bibles, Qurans, icons, or other religious objects faced long prison sentences. Religious weddings were prohibited.\n\nParents were afraid to pass on their faith, for fear that their children would tell others. Officials tried to entrap practicing Christians and Muslims during religious fasts, such as Lent and Ramadan, by distributing dairy products and other forbidden foods in school and at work, and then publicly denouncing those who refused the food. Those clergy who conducted secret services were incarcerated. Catholic priest Shtjefen Kurti had been executed for secretly baptizing a child in Shkodër in 1972.\n\nThe article was interpreted by Danes as violating The United Nations Charter (chapter 9, article 55) which declares that religious freedom is an inalienable human right. The first time that the question came before the United Nations' Commission on Human Rights at Geneva was as late as 7 March 1983. A delegation from Denmark got its protest over Albania's violation of religious liberty placed on the agenda of the thirty-ninth meeting of the commission, item 25, reading, \"Implementation of the Declaration on the Elimination of all Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination based on Religion or Belief.\", and on 20 July 1984 a member of the Danish Parliament inserted an article into one of Denmark's major newspapers protesting the violation of religious freedom in Albania.\n\nThe 1998 Constitution of Albania defined the country as a parliamentary republic, and established personal and political rights and freedoms, including protection against coercion in matters of religious belief. Albania is a member state of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, and the 2011 census found that 58.79% of Albanians adhere to Islam, making it the largest religion in the country. The majority of Albanian Muslims are secular Sunnis along with a significant Bektashi Shia minority. Christianity is practiced by 16.99% of the population, making it the 2nd largest religion in the country. The remaining population is either irreligious or belongs to other religious groups. Before World War II, there was given a distribution of 70% Muslims, 20% Eastern Orthodox, and 10% Roman Catholics. Today, Gallup Global Reports 2010 shows that religion plays a role in the lives of 39% of Albanians, and ranks Albania the thirteenth least religious country in the world. The U.S. state department reports that in 2013, \"There were no reports of societal abuses or discrimination based on religious affiliation, belief, or practice.\"\n\nThe Khmer Rouge actively persecuted Buddhists during their reign from 1975 to 1979. Buddhist institutions and temples were destroyed and Buddhist monks and teachers were killed in large numbers. A third of the nation's monasteries were destroyed along with numerous holy texts and items of high artistic quality. 25,000 Buddhist monks were massacred by the regime, which was officially an atheist state. The persecution was undertaken because Pol Pot believed that Buddhism was \"a decadent affectation\". He sought to eliminate Buddhism's 1,500-year-old mark on Cambodia.\n\nReligion was also banned, and the repression of adherents of Islam, Christianity, and Buddhism was extensive. And according to Ben Kiernan, the \"fiercest extermination campaign was directed against the ethnic Cham Muslim minority\".\n\nChina is an officially atheist state, which has promoted atheism throughout the country. In April 2016, the General Secretary, Xi Jinping, stated that members of the Communist Party of China must be \"unyielding Marxist atheists\" while in the same month, government officials ran over Chinese Christians who protested the demolition of their church.\n\nTraditionally, a large segment of the Chinese population took part in Chinese folk religions and Confucianism, Taoism and Buddhism had played a significant role in the everyday lives of ordinary people. After the 1949 Chinese Revolution, China began a period of rule by the Communist Party of China. For much of its early history, that government maintained under Marxist thought that religion would ultimately disappear, and characterized it as emblematic of feudalism and foreign colonialism.\n\nDuring the Cultural Revolution, student vigilantes known as Red Guards converted religious buildings for secular use or destroyed them. This attitude, however, relaxed considerably in the late 1970s, with the reform and opening up period. The 1978 Constitution of the People's Republic of China guaranteed freedom of religion with a number of restrictions. Since then, there has been a massive program to rebuild Buddhist and Taoist temples that were destroyed in the Cultural Revolution.\n\nThe Communist Party has said that religious belief and membership are incompatible. However, the state is not allowed to force ordinary citizens to become atheists. China's five officially sanctioned religious organizations are the Buddhist Association of China, Chinese Taoist Association, Islamic Association of China, Three-Self Patriotic Movement and Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association. These groups are afforded a degree of protection, but are subject to restrictions and controls under the State Administration for Religious Affairs. Unregistered religious groups face varying degrees of harassment. The constitution permits what is called \"normal religious activities,\" so long as they do not involve the use of religion to \"engage in activities that disrupt social order, impair the health of citizens or interfere with the educational system of the state. Religious organizations and religious affairs are not subject to any foreign dominance.\"\n\nArticle 36 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of China of 1982 specifies that:\n\nMost people report no organized religious affiliation; however, people with a belief in folk traditions and spiritual beliefs, such as ancestor veneration and feng shui, along with informal ties to local temples and unofficial house churches number in the hundreds of millions. The United States Department of State, in its annual report on International Religious Freedom, provides statistics about organized religions. In 2007 it reported the following (citing the Government's 1997 report on Religious Freedom and 2005 White Paper on religion):\n\nStatistics relating to Buddhism and religious Taoism are to some degree incomparable with statistics for Islam and Christianity. This is due to the traditional Chinese belief system which blends Confucianism, Buddhism, and Taoism, so that a person who follows a traditional belief system would not necessarily identify him- or herself as exclusively Buddhist or Taoist, despite attending Buddhist or Taoist places of worship. According to Peter Ng, Professor of the Department of Religion at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, , 95% of Chinese were religious in some way if religion is considered to include traditional folk practices such as burning incense for gods or ancestors at life-cycle or seasonal festivals, fortune telling and related customary practices.\n\nThe U.S. State Department has designated China as a \"country of particular concern\" since 1999, in part, due to the scenario of Uighur Muslims and Tibetan Buddhists. Freedom House classifies Tibet and Xinjiang as regions of particular repression of religion, due to concerns of separatist activity. Heiner Bielefeldt, the UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief says that China's actions against the Uighurs are \"a major problem\". The Chinese government has protested the report, saying the country has \"ample\" religious freedom.\n\nUntil 1992, Cuba was officially an atheist state.\n\nIn August 1960, several bishops signed a joint pastoral letter condemning communism and declaring it incompatible with Catholicism, and calling on Catholics to reject it. Fidel Castro gave a four-hour long speech the next day, condemning priests who serve \"great wealth\" and using fears of Falangist influence in order to attack Spanish born priests, declaring \"There is no doubt that Franco has a sizeable group of fascist priests in Cuba.\"\n\nOriginally more tolerant of religion, the Cuban government began arresting many believers and shutting down religious schools after the Bay of Pigs invasion. Its prisons were being filled with clergy since the 1960s. In 1961 The Cuban government confiscated Catholic schools, including the Jesuit school that Fidel Castro had attended. In 1965 it exiled two hundred priests.\n\nIn 1976 the Constitution of Cuba added a clause stating that the \"socialist state...bases its activity on, and educates the people in, the scientific materialist concept of the universe\". In\n1992, the Dissolution of the Soviet Union led the country to declare itself a secular state, and Catholic groups have worked to advance the Cuban thaw. In January 1998, Pope John Paul II paid a historic visit to the island, invited by the Cuban government and the Catholic Church in Cuba. The pope criticized the US embargo during his visit. Pope Benedict XVI visited Cuba in 2012 and Pope Francis visited Cuba in 2015. The Cuban government continued hostile actions against religious groups; in 2015 alone, the Castro régime ordered the closure or demolition of over 100 Pentecostal, Methodist, and Baptist parishes.\n\nEast Germany was an atheist state.\n\nAlthough the North Korean constitution states that freedom of religion is permitted, free religious activities no longer exist in North Korea, because the government sponsors religious groups only to create an illusion of religious freedom. The North Korean government's Juche ideology has been described as \"state-sanctioned atheism\". After 1,500 churches were destroyed during the rule of Kim Il Sung from 1948 to 1994, three churches were built in Pyongyang to deflect human rights criticism.\n\nThe North Korean government promotes the cult of personality of Kim Jong-il and Kim Il-sung, described as a political religion, as well as the \"Juche\" ideology, based on Korean ultranationalism, which calls on people to \"avoid spiritual deference to outside influences\", which was interpreted as including religion originating outside of Korea.\n\nNorth Korea has been designated a \"country of particular concern\" by the U.S. State Department since 2001 due to its religious freedom violations. Cardinal Nicolas Cheong Jin-suk has said that, \"There's no knowledge of priests surviving persecution that came in the late forties, when 166 priests and religious were killed or kidnapped,\" which includes the Roman Catholic bishop of Pyongyang, Francis Hong Yong-ho. On November 2013, the repression against religious people led to the public execution of 80 people, some of them for possessing Bibles.\n\nIn the Mongolian People's Republic, after the invasion by Japanese troops of 1936, the Soviet Union deployed its troops in 1937, undertaking an offensive against the Buddhist religion. In parallel, a Soviet-style purge campaign was launched in the Communist Party and the Mongolian army. The Mongol leader at that time was Khorloogiin Choibalsan, follower of Joseph Stalin, who emulated many of the policies that Stalin developed in the Soviet Union. The purges succeeded in virtually eliminating Lamaism and cost an estimated thirty to thirty-five thousand lives.\n\nOfficially, the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is an atheist state as declared by its communist government.\n\nArticles 3, 5, 24, 27, and 130 of the Mexican Constitution of 1917 as originally enacted were anticlerical and restricted religious freedoms. At first the anticlerical provisions were seldom enforced, but when President Plutarco Elías Calles took office in 1924, he enforced the provisions strictly. Calles' Mexico has been characterized as an atheist state and his program as being one to eradicate religion in Mexico.\n\nAll religions had their properties expropriated, and these became part of government wealth. There was an expulsion of foreign clergy and the seizure of Church properties. Article 27 prohibited any future acquisition of such property by the churches, and prohibited religious corporations and ministers from \nestablishing or directing primary schools. This second prohibition was sometimes interpreted to mean that the Church could not give religious instruction to children within the churches on Sundays, seen as destroying the ability of Catholics to be educated in their own religion.\n\nThe Constitution of 1917 also forbade the existence of monastic orders (article 5) and any religious activity outside of church buildings (now owned by the government), and mandated that such religious activity would be overseen by the government (article 24).\n\nOn June 14, 1926, President Calles enacted anticlerical legislation known formally as The Law Reforming the Penal Code and unofficially as the Calles Law. His anti-Catholic actions included outlawing religious orders, depriving the Church of property rights and depriving the clergy of civil liberties, including their right to a trial by jury (in cases involving anti-clerical laws) and the right to vote. Catholic antipathy towards Calles was enhanced because of his vocal atheism. He was also a Freemason. Regarding this period, recent President Vicente Fox stated, \"After 1917, Mexico was led by anti-Catholic Freemasons who tried to evoke the anticlerical spirit of popular indigenous President Benito Juárez of the 1880s. But the military dictators of the 1920s were a more savage lot than Juarez.\"\nDue to the strict enforcement of anti-clerical laws, people in strongly Catholic states, especially Jalisco, Zacatecas, Guanajuato, Colima and Michoacán, began to oppose him, and this opposition led to the Cristero War from 1926 to 1929, which was characterized by brutal atrocities on both sides. Some Cristeros applied terrorist tactics, while the Mexican government persecuted the clergy, killing suspected Cristeros and supporters and often retaliating against innocent individuals. On May 28, 1926, Calles was awarded a medal of merit from the head of Mexico's Scottish rite of Freemasonry for his actions against the Catholics.\n\nA truce was negotiated with the assistance of U.S. Ambassador Dwight Whitney Morrow. Calles, however, did not abide by the terms of the truce – in violation of its terms, he had approximately 500 Cristero leaders and 5,000 other Cristeros shot, frequently in their homes in front of their spouses and children. Particularly offensive to Catholics after the supposed truce was Calles' insistence on a complete state monopoly on education, suppressing all Catholic education and introducing \"socialist\" education in its place: \"We must enter and take possession of the mind of childhood, the mind of youth.\". The persecution continued as Calles maintained control under his Maximato and did not relent until 1940, when President Manuel Ávila Camacho, a believing Catholic, took office. This attempt to indoctrinate the youth in atheism was begun in 1934 by amending Article 3 to the Mexican Constitution to eradicate religion by mandating \"socialist education\", which \"in addition to removing all religious doctrine\" would \"combat fanaticism and prejudices\", \"build[ing] in the youth a rational and exact concept of the universe and of social life\". In 1946 this \"socialist education\" was removed from the constitution and the document returned to the less egregious generalized secular education.\nThe effects of the war on the Church were profound. Between 1926 and 1934 at least 40 priests were killed. Where there were 4,500 priests operating within the country before the rebellion, in 1934 there were only 334 priests licensed by the government to serve fifteen million people, the rest having been eliminated by emigration, expulsion, and assassination. By 1935, 17 states had no priest at all.\n\nArticle 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is designed to protect the right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion. In 1993, the UN's human rights committee declared that article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights \"protects theistic, non-theistic and atheistic beliefs, as well as the right not to profess any religion or belief.\" The committee further stated that \"the freedom to have or to adopt a religion or belief necessarily entails the freedom to choose a religion or belief, including the right to replace one's current religion or belief with another or to adopt atheistic views.\" Signatories to the convention are barred from \"the use of threat of physical force or penal sanctions to compel believers or non-believers\" to recant their beliefs or convert. Despite this, minority religions were still being persecuted in many parts of the world.\n\nTheodore Roosevelt condemned the Kishinev pogrom in 1903, establishing a history of U.S. presidents commenting on the internal religious liberty of foreign countries. In Franklin D. Roosevelt's 1941 State of the Union address, he outlined Four Freedoms, including Freedom of worship, that would be foundation for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and future U.S. diplomatic efforts. Jimmy Carter asked Deng Xiaoping to improve religious freedom in China, and Ronald Reagan told US Embassy staff in Moscow to help Jews harassed by the Soviet authorities. Bill Clinton established the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom with the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998, in order to use diplomacy to promote religious liberty in repressive states.\n\n"}
{"id": "70243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70243", "title": "United States Department of Commerce", "text": "United States Department of Commerce\n\nThe United States Department of Commerce is the Cabinet department of the United States government concerned with promoting economic growth. Among its tasks are gathering economic and demographic data for business and government decision-making, and helping to set industrial standards. This organization's main purpose is to create jobs, promote economic growth, encourage sustainable development and improve standards of living for all Americans. The Department of Commerce headquarters is the Herbert C. Hoover Building in Washington, D.C.\n\nWilbur Ross is the current Commerce secretary.\n\nThe department was originally created as the United States Department of Commerce and Labor on February 14, 1903. It was subsequently renamed the Department of Commerce on March 4, 1913, as the bureaus and agencies specializing in labor were transferred to the new Department of Labor. The United States Patent and Trademark Office was transferred from the Interior Department into Commerce, and the Federal Employment Stabilization Office existed within the department from 1931 to 1939. In 1940, the Weather Bureau (now the National Weather Service) was transferred from the Agriculture Department, and the Civil Aeronautics Authority was merged into the department. In 1949, the Public Roads Administration was added to the department due to the dissolution of the Federal Works Agency. In 1958, the independent Federal Aviation Agency was created and the Civil Aeronautics Authority was abolished. The United States Travel Service was established by the United States Secretary of Commerce on July 1, 1961 pursuant to the International Travel Act of 1961 (75 Stat. 129; 22 U.S.C. 2121 note) The Economic Development Administration was created in 1965. In 1966, the Bureau of Public Roads was transferred to the newly created Department of Transportation. The Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) was created on March 5, 1969, originally established by President Richard M. Nixon as the Office of Minority Business Enterprise.\nThe National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) was created on October 3, 1970.\n\nThe Department of Commerce was authorized a budget for Fiscal Year 2015 of $14.6 billion. The budget authorization is broken down as follows:\n\nProposals to reorganize the Department go back many decades. The Department of Commerce was one of three departments that Texas governor Rick Perry advocated eliminating during his 2012 presidential campaign, along with the Department of Education and Department of Energy. Perry's campaign cited the frequency with which agencies had historically been moved into and out of the department and its lack of a coherent focus, and advocated moving its vital programs into other departments such as the Department of the Interior, Department of Labor, and Department of the Treasury. The Economic Development Administration would be completely eliminated.\n\nOn January 13, 2012, President Obama announced his intentions to ask the United States Congress for the power to close the department and replace it with a new cabinet-level agency focused on trade and exports. The new agency would include the Office of the United States Trade Representative, currently part of the Executive Office of the President, as well as the Export-Import Bank of the United States, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, the United States Trade and Development Agency, and the Small Business Administration, which are all currently independent agencies. The Obama administration projected that the reorganization would save $3 billion and would help the administration's goal of doubling U.S. exports in five years. The new agency would be organized around four \"pillars\": a technology and innovation office including the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the National Institute of Standards and Technology; a statistical division including the United States Census Bureau and other data-collection agencies currently in the Commerce Department, and also the Bureau of Labor Statistics which would be transferred from the Department of Labor; a trade and investment policy office; and a small business development office. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) would be transferred from the Department of Commerce into the Department of the Interior. Later that year, shortly before the 2012 presidential election, Obama invoked the idea of a \"secretary of business\" in reference to the plan. The reorganization was part of a larger proposal which would grant the President the authority to propose mergers of federal agencies, which would then be subject to an up-or-down Congressional vote. This ability had existed from the Great Depression until the Reagan presidency, when Congress rescinded the authority.\n\nThe Obama administration plan faced criticism for some of its elements. Some Congress members expressed concern that the Office of the United States Trade Representative would lose focus if it were included in a larger bureaucracy, especially given its status as an \"honest broker\" between other agencies, which tend to advocate for specific points of view. The overall plan has also been criticized as an attempt to create an agency similar to Japan's powerful Ministry of International Trade and Industry, which was abolished in 2001 after some of its initiatives failed and it became seen as a hindrance to growth. NOAA's climate and terrestrial operations and fisheries and endangered species programs would be expected to integrate well with agencies already in the Interior Department, such as the United States Geological Survey and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. However, environmental groups such as the Natural Resources Defense Council feared that the reorganization could distract the agency from its mission of protecting the nation's oceans and ecosystems. The plan was reiterated in the Obama administration's FY2016 budget proposal that was released in February 2015.\n\n\n"}
