{"id": "19570924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19570924", "title": "75th parallel north", "text": "75th parallel north\n\nThe 75th parallel north is a circle of latitude that is 75 degrees north of the Earth's equatorial plane, in the Arctic. It crosses the Atlantic Ocean, Europe, Asia, the Arctic Ocean and North America.\n\nStarting at the Prime Meridian and heading eastwards, the parallel 75° north passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "58138039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58138039", "title": "Absyrtides", "text": "Absyrtides\n\nAbsyrtides or Apsyrtides or Apsirtides () was a collective name of two islands off the coast of Illyricum – Cres and Lošinj, which were almost attached. The name recalls Absyrtus, who according to one tradition, was slain here by his sister Medea and by Jason. Ptolemy mentions only one island, \"Apsorrus\" (Ἄψορρος), on which he places two towns Crepsa (Κρέψα) (the modern Cres) and Apsorrus (the modern Osor, now all in Croatia). \n\n"}
{"id": "1262222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1262222", "title": "Alofi", "text": "Alofi\n\nAlofi is the capital of the Pacific Ocean island nation of Niue. With a population of less than 1,000 (census of 2014), Alofi has the distinction of being the second smallest national capital city in terms of population (after Ngerulmud, capital of Palau). It consists of the two villages: Alofi North and Alofi South where the government headquarters are located.\n\nIn January 2004, Niue was hit by the fierce tropical storm Cyclone Heta which killed two people and did extensive damage to the entire island. Many of Alofi's buildings were destroyed, including the hospital. Government buildings were shifted to a less exposed site inland from the west coast, named Fonuakula, after the storm. This site is still within the village boundaries of Alofi South.\n\nIt is located at the centre of Alofi Bay on the west coast of the island, close to the only break in the coral reef that surrounds Niue. The bay stretches for 30% of the island's length (about seven kilometres) from Halagigie Point in the south to Makapu Point in the north.\n\nThe council's territory borders with Avatele, Hakupu, Lakepa, Liku, Makefu, Mutalau, Tamakautoga and Tuapa.\n\nAlofi features a tropical rainforest climate under the Köppen climate classification, with no discernible dry season. The city has a noticeably drier stretch from June through September. However, all of these months average more than of rain, the limit for a dry season month. Average temperatures vary slightly throughout the course of the year in Alofi hovering at around , during the warmest month (February) and at around during the coolest months (July and August) .\nThe town is serviced by Niue International Airport, and there are numerous roads, both paved and dirt, that crisscross the town.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51765899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51765899", "title": "Alsat-1B", "text": "Alsat-1B\n\nAlsat-1B is an Algerian satellite operated by the Agence Spatiale Algerienne for agricultural and disaster monitoring. The contract for the mission was signed in July 2014. The satellite is based on the SSTL-100 bus. The satellite weighs and carries an earth imaging payload with panchromatic imager and multispectral cameras.\n\nThe satellite had high participation from ASAL, with eighteen engineers that worked on assembly, integration, and test. Additionally, at the University of Surrey, 18 students used the satellite as a part of their graduate degree research.\n\nThe satellite was launched on 26 September 2016 into a altitude polar orbit by ISRO using the PSLV-C35 rocket. It was launched with several other satellites. The primary payload was SCATSAT 1, which was launched into a Polar Sun Synchronous Orbit. This was the first time PSLV launched satellites into different orbits. Algeria had three satellites that it will operate launch in that group, which were AlSat-1B, AlSat 2B, and AlSat-Nano. AlSat-2B also had imaging capabilities, but they are higher resolution than AlSat-1B. Of the eight satellites launched by PSLV, five of them were foreign. The remaining satellites were BlackSky Pathfinder 1, Pratham, PISat, and CanX 7.\n\nAlsat-1B uses three body mounted solar panels for power generation, and a 15 Amp-hour Li-Ion battery for power storage. It uses warm gas, butane powered resistojets for propulsion. The attitude control system uses sun sensors and magnetometers.\n\nAlgeria national space programs"}
{"id": "13755028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13755028", "title": "Bioversity International", "text": "Bioversity International\n\nBioversity International is a global research-for-development organization with a vision – that agricultural biodiversity nourishes people and sustains the planet. The organization delivers scientific evidence, management practices and policy options to use and safeguard agricultural biodiversity to attain global food and nutrition security, working with partners in low-income countries in different regions where agricultural biodiversity can contribute to improved nutrition, resilience, productivity and climate change adaptation.\n\nBioversity International is a member of the CGIAR, a global research partnership for a food-secure future.\n\nThe organization is highly decentralized, with about 300 staff working around the world. Its headquarters are in Maccarese, outside Rome, Italy, with regional offices located in Central and South America, West and Central Africa, East and Southern Africa, Central and South Asia, and South-east Asia.\n\nBioversity International is a research-for-development organization focused on safeguarding and using agricultural biodiversity to help meet challenges such as adaptation to climate change and increased sustainable production. \n\nThe organization takes the view that the diversity of plants and animals offers opportunities not only through breeding but also by delivering many other benefits. Some are direct, such as the better nutrition and greater sustainability that come with locally-adapted crops. Others are indirect, like the ecosystem services delivered by healthy populations of pollinators, biological control agents, and soil microbes. Agricultural biodiversity will also be absolutely essential to cope with the predicted impacts of climate change, not simply as a source of traits but as the underpinnings of more resilient farm ecosystems.\n\nBioversity International is governed by a Board of Trustees, including one Trustee nominated by the host country (Italy) and one nominated by FAO. The Board also appoints the Director General who manages the operation of the various programs. The current Director General, M. Ann Tutwiler, will remain in her position until the end of 2018.\n\nIn 2014, Bioversity International marked 40 years of operations. Bioversity International was originally established by the CGIAR as the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources (IBPGR) in 1974. In October 1991, IBPGR became the International Plant Genetic Resources Institute (IPGRI) and in 1994 IPGRI began independent operation as one of the centers of the CGIAR. At the request of the CGIAR, in 1994 IPGRI took over the governance and administration of the International Network for the Improvement of Banana and Plantain (INIBAP). In 2006, IPGRI and INIBAP became a single organization and subsequently changed their operating name to Bioversity International. Bioversity International still maintains the world's largest banana gene bank, the Bioversity International \"Musa\" Germplasm Transit Centre, that is hosted at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (KU Leuven) in Leuven, Belgium, and manages ProMusa - a platform that shares knowledge about bananas and plantains. In 2002, the Global Crop Diversity Trust was established by Bioversity International on behalf of the CGIAR and the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, through a Crop Diversity Endowment Fund.\n\nBioversity International and its predecessors have published occasional papers under the title \"Issues in Genetic Resources\". In 2017, the organization published \"Mainstreaming Agrobiodiversity In Sustainable Food Systems - Scientific Foundations for an Agrobiodiversity Index\", a book that put the spotlight on the importance of agrobiodiversity as the foundation of our food supplies.\n\n"}
{"id": "27170593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27170593", "title": "Cartographic propaganda", "text": "Cartographic propaganda\n\nCartographic propaganda is a map created with the goal of achieving a result similar to traditional propaganda. The map can be outright falsified, or created using subjectivity with the goal of persuasion. The idea that maps are subjective is not new; cartographers refer to maps as a human-subjective product and some view cartography as an \"industry, which packages and markets spatial knowledge\" or as a communicative device distorted by human subjectivity. However, cartographic propaganda is widely successful because maps are often presented as a miniature model of reality, and it is a rare occurrence that a map is referred to as a distorted model, which sometimes can \"lie\" and contain items that are completely different from reality. Because the word propaganda has become a pejorative, it has been suggested that mapmaking of this kind should be described as “persuasive cartography,” defined as maps intended primarily to influence opinions or beliefs – to send a message – rather than to communicate geographic information.\n\nThe T-O map is a historical example of cartographic propaganda during the Middle Ages. During the Renaissance maps became more widely used in general and their use began to take on a more cultural and political character, more similar to the cartographic propaganda that is seen today. This use was especially practiced in Italy, where the competition for resources between city states in the central and northern Italian heartlands led to a precocious awareness of the practical utility of maps for military and strategic purposes, as well as civilian uses such as the planning of forts, canals, and aqueducts. In sequence, the usage of cartographic propaganda has increased remarkably alongside the rise of the modern state (Black 1997; 2008).\n\nThe interwar period in Germany fostered the development of cartographic propaganda. German propagandists discovered the advantages of cartography in the re-representation of reality. For the Nazi regime, the most important goal in producing maps was their efficiency in providing communication between the ruler and the masses. The use of maps in this manner can be referred to as \"suggestive cartography,\" as being capable of dynamic representations of power.\n\nThis period of geopolitical cartographic development was a continuous process associated with Nazis and World War II; the development of cartographic propaganda is closely related to the wider Nazi propaganda machine (Tyner 1974). There were three different categories of propaganda maps that were used by the Nazi propaganda machine; (1) maps used to illustrate the condition of Germany as a people and nation are identified; (2) maps taking an aim at the morale of the Allies via a mental offensive through maps specifically designed to keep the U.S. neutral in the war by changing the perception of threats; and (3) maps as blue-prints of the post-war world. During this period, this approach to cartography expanded to Italy, Spain, and Portugal as cartographers and propagandists found inspiration in the \"positivistic trends of the German world.\"\n\nThis more overt use of maps as propaganda continued into the Cold War period. Post-World War II U.S. cartographers modified projections to create a menacing image of the Soviet Union by making the Soviet Union appear larger and thus more threatening. This approach was also applied to other nearby communist countries, thereby accentuating the rise of communism as a whole. The April 1, 1946, issue of \"Time\" published a map entitled 'Communist Contagion,' which focused on the communist threat of the Soviet Union. In this map the strength of the Soviet Union was enhanced by a split-spherical presentation of Europe and Asia which made the Soviet Union seem larger as a result of the break in the center of the map. Communist expansion was also emphasized in this map as it presented the Soviet Union in a vivid red color, a color commonly associated with danger (and communism as a whole), and categorized neighboring states in terms of the danger of contagion, using the language of disease (states were referred to as quarantined, infected or exposed, adding to the presentation of these countries as dangerous or threatening). More generally, during the Cold War period, small-scale maps served to make dangers appear menacing; some maps were made to make Vietnam appear close to Singapore and Australia; or Afghanistan to the Indian Ocean (Black 1997; 2008). Similarly, maps illustrating rocket positions used a polar azimuth projection with the North Pole at its center, which gave the map reader the perception that there existed a relatively small distance between the countries on opposing sides of the Cold War.\n\nScale, map projection, and symbolization are characteristics of cartography that can be selectively applied that will therefore transform a map into cartographic propaganda.\n\nScales are used to relate distance because maps are usually smaller than the area they represent. Because of the need for a scale, the cartographer often makes use of map generalization as a way to ensure clarity. The size of the scale affects the use of generalization; a smaller scale forces a higher level of generalization.\n\nThere are two types of map generalization; geometric and content. The methods of geometric generalization are selection, simplification, displacement, smoothing, and enhancement. Content generalization promotes clarity of the purpose or meaning of a map by filtering out details irrelevant to the map's function or theme. Content generalization has two essential elements; selection and classification. Selection serves to suppress information and classification is the choice of relevant features.\n\nMap projection is the method of presenting the curved, three-dimensional surface of the planet into a flat, two-dimensional plane. The flat map, even with a constant scale, stretches some distances and shortens others, and varies the scale from point to point. Choice of map projection affects the map's size, shape, distance and/or direction. Map projection has been used to create cartographic propaganda by making small areas bigger and large areas bigger still. Arno Peters' attack on the Mercator Projection in 1972 is an example of the subjectivity of map projection; Peters argued that it is an ethnocentric projection.\n\nSymbols are used in maps to complement map scale and projection by making visible the features, places, and other locational information represented on a map. Because map symbolization describes and differentiates features and places, \"map symbols serve as a geographic code for storing and retrieving data in a two-dimensional geographic framework.\" Map symbolization tells the map reader what is relevant and what is not. As a result, the selection of symbols can be done subjectively and with a propagandistic intent.\n\nThe map is the perfect symbol of the state and has thus been used throughout history as a symbol of power and nationhood. As a symbol the map has served many purposes of the state including the exertion of rule, legitimation of rule, assertion of national unity, and was even used for the mobilization of war.\n\nCartographic propaganda in Medieval Europe spoke to the emotions rather than to reason and often reflected the prestige of empires.\n\nThe Fra Mauro World Map (1450) was intended for display in Venice and shows the Portuguese discoveries in Africa and emphasizes the feats of Marco Polo. The British East India Company commissioned a copy in 1804, implying that Britain was heir to the Portuguese empire.\n\n\"The Americas\" (1562) was created by Diego Gutiérrez and serves as a powerful celebration of Spain's New World Empire. In this map, King Philip II is shown riding the turbulent Atlantic Ocean on a chariot; this illustration is reminiscent of the Roman God Neptune. References like this were intended to strengthen Spain's image in Europe and its claim to the Americas.\n\nEuropean rulers often tried to intimidate visiting envoys by displaying maps of their masters' lands and forts, with the implication that the maps were a first step towards conquest. For example, in 1527, during festivities for the French ambassador in England, maps depicting aerial views of French towns being successfully besieged by the English decorated the walls of a Greenwich pavilion specially built for the ambassador's visit.\n\nColonial powers used the map as an intellectual tool to legitimize territorial conquest. Ramsay Muir's \"Cambridge Modern Historical Atlas\" (Cambridge, 1912) compiled a selection of British triumphs. Less glorious and unsuccessful earlier struggles with the Mysore and the Marathas were ignored.\n\nMaps during the colonial period were also used to organize and rank the rest of the world according to the European powers. Edward Quin used color to depict civilization in \"Historical Atlas in a Series of Maps of the World\" (London, 1830). In the introduction of the atlas Quin wrote, \"we have covered alike in all the periods with a flat olive shading...barbarous and uncivilized countries such as the interior of Africa at the present moment.\"\n\nA single overview map of an entire country serves as an assertion of national unity. The national atlas commissioned during the rule of Elizabeth I bound together maps of the various English counties and asserted their unity under Elizabeth's rule. A few decades later, Henry VI of France celebrated the reunification of his kingdom through the creation of the atlas, \"Le theatre francoys.\" The atlas includes an impressive engraving proclaiming the glory of king and kingdom.\n\nIn the later nineteenth and twentieth centuries the political potential of cartographic shapes became used more widely and began to be used for more blatantly propagandistic purposes. Map and globe can be used as symbols for abstract ideas because they are familiar to the masses and they harbor emotive connotations. Maps are often incorporated as an emblematic element in a larger design or are used to provide the visual framework on which a scenario is played out.\n\nFred W. Rose created two propaganda posters depicting the British general election in 1880 in which he used the map of England, \"Comic Map of the British Isles indicating the Political Situation in 1880\" and \"The overthrow of His Imperial Majesty King Jingo I: A Map of the Political Situation in 1880 by Nemesis.\". He was also the creator of the 1899 \"Angling in troubled waters\".\n\nHenri Dron used the figure of the world map in the 1869 propaganda poster, \"L'Europe des Points Noirs.\"\n\nCartographic propaganda during WWI and WWII was used to polarize states along the lines of war and did so by appealing to the masses. Fred Rose's \"Serio-comic war map for the year 1877\" portrayed the Russian Empire as an octopus stretching out its tentacles vying for control in Europe and was intended to solicit distrust of the Russian Empire within Europe. This concept was used again in 1917 during WWI, when France commissioned a map which portrayed Prussia as the octopus. The octopus appeared again in 1942 as (Vichy) France intended to sustain its citizens' morale and cast Winston Churchill as the octopus, a demonic green-faced, red-lipped, cigar-smoking creature attempting to seize Africa and the Middle East.\n\nPolitical persuasion often concerns territorial claims, nationalities, national pride, borders, strategic positions, conquests, attacks, troop movements, defenses, spheres of influence, regional inequality, etc. The goal of cartographic propaganda is to mold the map’s message by emphasizing supporting features while suppressing contradictory information. Successful cartographic propaganda is geared toward an audience.\n\nBefore the U.S. had entered into WWII, U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt came to possess a German map of Central and South America that depicted all Latin American republics reduced to “five vassal states...bringing the whole continent under their (Nazi) domination.” FDR viewed this as an open threat to “our great life line, the Panama Canal\" and therefore mean that “the Nazi design is not only against South America, but against the U.S. as well.” This map was undoubtedly propaganda, yet its target audience could have either been the German or American public. The map was first discovered by the British and then brought to the attention of FDR. Although Berlin claimed that it was a forgery, the origin of the map is still unknown.\n\nSome Nazi maps were commissioned as an attempt to divert sympathy from Britain and deter Allied aggression. The Nazi map, \"A Study in Empires\" compares the size of Germany (264,300 sq. mi) to that of the British Empire (13,320,854 sq. mi), arguing that Britain, not Germany, is the aggressor nation.\n\nThe Nazi regime also used maps to persuade the United States to remain neutral during WWII by flattering both isolationism and Monroe Doctrine militarism. \"Spheres of Influence,\" created and published in 1941, uses bold lines traced around sections of the globe to send a clear message to Americans: stay in your own hemisphere and out of Europe.\n\nCartographic propaganda can be used to mislead the enemy and its military by distorting maps and the information they contain which is used in military strategic planning.\n\nIn 1958 the Soviet Union launched the Soviet Map Distortion Policy which resulted in the thinning and distortion of detail in all unclassified maps. Then in 1988 the Soviet Union’s chief cartographer, Viktor R. Yashchenko, admitted that Soviet maps had been faked for nearly 50 years. The Soviet Union had deliberately falsified virtually all public maps of the country, misplacing streets, distorting boundaries, and omitting geographical features. These were orders administered by the Soviet secret police. Western experts said the maps were distorted out of fear of aerial bombing or foreign intelligence operations.\n\nCartographic propaganda during the Cold War often appealed to the fear of the masses. During the Cold War period, maps of “us” versus “them” were drawn to emphasize the threat represented by the USSR and its allies.\n\nR.M. Chapin, Jr. created the map, “Europe From Moscow,” in 1952. The map was drawn from a different perspective, from Moscow looking onward toward Europe which made it easy for the map reader to imagine (red) armies sweeping across Western Europe.\n\nAdolf Hitler's schoolroom map of \"Deutschland\" in 1935 presented all the German-speaking areas surrounding Germany without borders, claiming them as part of the Reich . This gave the impression that the Reich extended over Austria and the German-speaking areas in Poland, Czechoslovakia, and even France.\n\nM. Tomasik created the \"Pictorial Map of European Russia,\" which was published in Warsaw in 1896 and 1903, provoked an image of Utopia in Russia. The map was intended for display in Polish schools and was meant to appeal directly to the emotions of teachers and through them to those they taught. The map illustrated Russia as a nation rich in natural resources and failed to mention the famine that occurred only five years earlier (1891-5) during which half a million people had died. The map also communicated the message of Russian unity; the nation's provinces were shown linked together by a new rail network and contributing to the nation's well-being.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47609732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47609732", "title": "Central Iranian Range", "text": "Central Iranian Range\n\nThe Sahand-Bazman Volcanic and Plutonic Belt or the Sahand-Bazman Igneous Arc or the Central Iranian Range is a mountain range that is made by (both extrusive and intrusive) igneous and pyroclastic rocks. Located East and almost parallel to the Zagros Mountains, the Central Iranian Range is stretched in a north-west-southeast direction from Mount Sahand in Azerbaijan in the north-west to Mount Bazman in Baluchistan in the Southeastern part of Iran. This range was mainly formed during the Tertiary volcanic and orogenic phase and especially in the Eocene volcanism and plutonism. The Central Iranian Range or the Sahand-Bazman Volcanic Belt includes famous mountains such as the Sahand in East Azerbaijan Province, Mount Karkas in the Karkas Mountains and Mount Marshenan in Isfahan Province, the Jebal Barez, Mount Hezar and Mount Lalehzar in Kerman Province, and the Bazman in the Sistan va Baluchestan Province of Iran.\n"}
{"id": "5966550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5966550", "title": "Col", "text": "Col\n\nIn geomorphology, a col is the lowest point on a mountain ridge between two peaks. It may also be called a gap. Particularly rugged and forbidding cols in the terrain are usually referred to as notches. They are generally unsuitable as mountain passes, but are occasionally crossed by mule tracks or climbers' routes. The term col tends to be associated more with mountain rather than hill ranges.\n\nThe height of a summit above its highest col (called the key col) is effectively a measure of a mountain's topographic prominence. Cols lie on the line of the watershed between two mountains, often on a prominent ridge or arête. For example, the highest col in Austria, the \"Obere Glocknerscharte\" (\"Upper Glockner Col\", ), lies between the Kleinglockner () and Großglockner () mountains, giving the Kleinglockner a minimum prominence of 17 metres.\n\nThe majority of cols are unnamed and are either never transited or only crossed in the course of negotiating a ridge line. Many double summits are separated by prominent cols. The distinction with other names for breaks in mountain ridges such as saddle, wind gap or notch is not sharply defined and may vary from place to place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20395477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20395477", "title": "Colluvium-filled bedrock hollow", "text": "Colluvium-filled bedrock hollow\n\nColluvium-filled bedrock hollows are the cause of many shallow earth landslides in steep mountainous terrain. They can form as a U or a V shaped trough as local bedrock variations reveal areas in the bedrock which are more prone to weathering than other locations on the slope. As the weathered bedrock turns to soil, there is a greater elevation difference between the soil level and the hard bedrock. With the introduction of water and the thick soil, there is less cohesion and the soil flows out in a landslide. With every landslide more bedrock is scoured out and the hollow becomes deeper. After time, colluvium fills the hollow, and the sequence starts again.\n\n"}
{"id": "51095818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51095818", "title": "Daniel Vrooman", "text": "Daniel Vrooman\n\nDaniel Vrooman (1818–1895) was an American missionary, diplomat, and cartographer.\n\nVrooman was born in Allegany County, New York, on 15 August 1818.\n\nHe and his wife Elizabeth Clemens (1826–1854) went to Guangzhou (then known as \"Canton\") in March 1852, having been posted there by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. Soon after their arrival, he wrote to \"Scientific American\", with questions regarding the use of photographs in magic lanterns, the standard American methods of rice cleaning, and the use of india rubber in printing presses.\n\nAlthough Guangzhou had been opened to foreign trade by the 1842 Treaty of Nanjing ending the First Opium War, access to the walled cities of the Manchus and Chinese continued to be denied to foreigners, who were mostly kept to the mercantile ghetto of the Thirteen Factories on the southern shore of the western suburbs. Vrooman successfully made a highly accurate map of the forbidden cities in 1855 by training one of his converts to pace the streets between major landmarks, marking a course by means of a compass and reference to the wall's major gates. These measurements were then compared against Vrooman's own, based on the angles of the visible landmarks with the high points of the city's suburbs. The map was so well done that, upon the opening of the city by the treaties of Tianjin (1858) and Beijing (1860), they were found to need no major changes, although the Second Opium War had seen the destruction of the Thirteen Factories and the creation of a new enclave at Shamian. \n\nElizabeth died in Macao in 1854 and he remarried three years later to Maria Wilberforce (1836–1866). He served as the American vice-consul and was said to have introduced mechanized cotton spinning to the city. In 1863, he published a Cantonese phonetic alphabet of his own devising.\n\nVrooman retired from the ABCFM's Guangzhou mission in 1866 or '67, but continued to work as an independent missionary in Guangzhou until 1878.\n\nIn 1878, he was made superintendent over a mission to the Chinese in Victoria, Australia. He retired from this post in 1881.\n\nHe died in Oakland, California, on 3 March 1895.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5438469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5438469", "title": "Desire path", "text": "Desire path\n\nA desire path (often referred to as desire line in transportation planning, and also known as a game trail, social trail, herd path, cow path, goat track, pig trail, use trail or bootleg trail) is a path created as a consequence of erosion caused by human or animal foot-fall traffic. The path usually represents the shortest or most easily navigated route between an origin and destination. Width and erosion severity can be indicators of how much traffic a path receives. Desire paths emerge as shortcuts where constructed ways take a circuitous route, have gaps, or are non-existent.\n\nDesire paths sometimes cut through sensitive habitats and off-limit areas, threatening wildlife and park security. However, they also provide an indicator to park management of activity concentration. The National Park Service unit at the Yosemite National Park in the United States of America uses this indicator to help establish its General Management Plan.\n\nTrampling studies have consistently documented that impacts on soil and vegetation occur rapidly with initial use of desire paths. As few as 15 passages over a site can be enough to create a distinct trail, the existence of which then attracts further use. This finding contributed to the creation of the Leave No Trace education program, which, among other things, teaches that travelers in nature areas should either stay on designated trails or, when off trail, distribute their travel lines so as to not inadvertently create new trails in unsustainable locations.\n\nLand managers have devised a variety of techniques to block the creation of desire paths including fences, dense vegetation, or signage. However, hikers still penetrate these barriers. Because of this, state of the art trail design attempts to avoid the need for barriers and restrictions and instead seeks to bring trail layout and user desires in line with each other – both through physical design and through persuasive outreach to users.\n\nLandscapers sometimes accommodate desire paths by paving them and integrating them into the official path network rather than blocking them.\n\nIn some cases, land planners have deliberately left land fully or partially unpathed, waiting to see what desire paths are created, and then paving those. In Finland, planners are known to visit their parks immediately after the first snowfall, when the existing paths are not visible. People naturally choose desire paths, clearly marked by their footprints, which can be then used to guide the routing of new purpose-built paths.\nIn other cases, access to desired paths may be blocked in an attempt to enforce use of official paths. Remedies applied may include fencing off desired paths, erection of signs forbidding the use of desired paths and re-vegetating well worn paths. \n\nThe image of a user-created path, in seeming defiance of authority, across the earth between the concrete, has captured the imagination of many as a metaphor for, variously, anarchism, intuitive design, individual creativity, or the wisdom of crowds.\n\nIn urban planning, the concept of desire paths can be used when analyzing traffic patterns in any mode of travel. See, for example, its use in the 1959 Chicago Area Transportation Study to describe choices commuters made about railroad and subway trips.\n\nIn software design, the term is used to describe the action of people widely adopting the same methods to overcome the limitations of the software they are using. A representative example is Twitter, which has \"paved\" a number of desire paths by integrating them into the service, including @ mentions, hashtags, and group discussions, although not always precisely mimicking the behaviors of users.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52385141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52385141", "title": "Dibër valley", "text": "Dibër valley\n\nThe Dibër valley (, ) is a section of the Drin valley in the border region between Macedonia and Albania.\n\nThe high-altitude alley is surrounded by even higher mountains on all sides: to the north is the Korab range, containing Mount Korab which, at 2764 metres, is the highest point in both countries; the mountains on the other sides also exceed 2000 metres. The Black Drin flows from the south through a narrow canyon into the valley and leaves it through a similarly steep canyon. Previously the river was notorious for annual floods, as a result of which there are no settlements near the river itself.Since the construction of a reservoir on the Macedonian side, the Debar Lake, the level of the river is regulated.\n\nThe Dibër valley is fertile. Wolves and bears are still found in the large forests of the valley. A large portion of the inhabitants work in agriculture. \n\nAfter the collapse of the Ottoman Empire in Europe, the European great powers established the borders of the new Balkan states at the London Conference of 1912–13. As a result, the Dibër valley was cut in half. The northwestern part, also known as the Little Dibër, was assigned to Albania. The Big Dibër, around the city of Debar (Albanian: Dibër), went to the Kingdom of Serbia. The city thus lost a large part of its hinterland. Families were separated and the inhabitants of the Albanian state were no longer able to visit the market in Debar. On the Albanian side, the city of Peshkopi became the new regional centre, the capital of the modern Dibër County and Dibër municipality.\n\nThe majority of Dibër's inhabitants are Albanians, who speak a Gheg dialect and are traditionally Muslim. There is a Macedonian Slav minority on both sides of the border. \n\n"}
{"id": "55550595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55550595", "title": "Diogo Vaz, São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Diogo Vaz, São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nDiogo Vaz is a settlement in the Lembá District on the western coast of São Tomé Island in São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 632 (2012 census). It lies 7 km southwest of Neves and 6 km northeast of Santa Catarina. It was established as a plantation complex, Roça de Diogo Vaz.\n"}
{"id": "41666595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41666595", "title": "Djur-Djur", "text": "Djur-Djur\n\nDjur-djur ( — \"water-water\"; — \"«onomatopoeia to the falling water»\") — waterfall is located on the Ulu-Uzen' river in the Crimean Mountains of Crimea. Waterfall height is .\nDjur-djur has not dried up ever, even in the dry years. Water from the waterfall falls into a small lake, and then cames into the river channel, which flows into the sea near the village Solnechnogorsk.\n\nThe name of the waterfall «Murmurous», named as onomatopoeia running water. According to one version the name originates from Armenian language «djur» (Ջուր) (literally — \"water-water\"). \nAccording to another of Iranian languages «Djur» — a murmur of running water.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1738737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1738737", "title": "Duduma Waterfalls", "text": "Duduma Waterfalls\n\nThe Duduma Waterfall, high, is formed by the Machkund river in Odisha & Andhra Pradesh states of India.\n\nDuduma is about 92 km from Koraput and about 177 km from Visakhapatnam. It forms a part of the boundary between Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.\n\nDuduma Waterfalls is one of the highest waterfalls in India. Its waters support a large hydroelectric project called Machkund Hydro Electric Power Project located at 'Onukudelli'. Machkund is an important place for pilgrimage. The name Machkund derived from a pilgrimage point called 'Matsya Kunda'near the township of Paderu in Andhra Pradesh. A beautiful township called 'Onukudelli' has grown around this lovely place. The aboriginal tribe of 'Bondas' live near this waterfalls. It has two sub-waterfalls one on the Odisha side and the other on the Andhra Pradesh side. The waterfalls lie in picturesque surroundings. It is one of the best tourist spots in Southern India.\n\n"}
{"id": "25393983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25393983", "title": "Eritrean coastal desert", "text": "Eritrean coastal desert\n\nThe Eritrean coastal desert ecoregion is a harsh sand and gravel strip along the southern part of the coast of Eritrea and the Red Sea coast of Djibouti. This coast is of ecological importance as a channel for the mass migration of birds of prey.\n\nThe ecoregion consists of a coastal strip in Eritrea's Southern Red Sea Region, which stretches along the Red Sea coast to Obock in Djibouti.\n\nThe flora of the coastal strip consists of herbs and grasses suited to the dry climate such as \"Aerva javanica\", \"Cymbopogon schoenanthus\", \"Panicum turgidum\", and \"Lasiurus scindicus\", along with some Umbrella thorn \"Acacia tortilis\" and \"Acacia asak\" trees and \"Rhigozum somalense\" and \"Caesalpinia erianthera\" shrubs.\n\nThis is one of the busiest raptor migration routes in the world as birds such as buzzards and eagles make their way to Africa for the winter along the Red Sea coast and across the Bab-el-Mandeb strait. Animals found here include sea turtles and gazelles including Dorcas gazelle \"(Gazella dorcas)\", Soemmerring’s gazelle \"(Gazella soemmerringii)\" and Salt’s dik-dik \"(Madoqua saltiana)\". There are three near-endemic reptiles Ogaden burrowing asp \"(Atractaspis leucomelas)\", Ragazzi's cylindrical skink \"(Chalcides ragazzii)\", and the gecko \"(Hemidactylus flaviviridis)\".\n\nThe coast is sparsely populated with the only town of any size the small port of Assab in Eritrea. Grazing of livestock has reduced the natural vegetation, there are no protected areas and there is potential for further change to the area with the completion of the planned coast road from Djibouti to Eritrea. Hunting of the gazelles, turtles and seabirds occurs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1990430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1990430", "title": "Frazione", "text": "Frazione\n\n\"Frazione\" (; ) is the Italian name given in administrative law to a type of territorial subdivision of a \"comune\"; for other administrative divisions, see \"municipio\", \"circoscrizione\", \"quartiere\". It is cognate to the English word \"fraction\", but in practice is roughly equivalent to \"parishes\" or \"wards\" in other countries.\n\nTypically the term \"frazioni\" applies to the villages surrounding the principal town (the \"capoluogo\") of a \"comune\". Subdivision of a \"comune\" is optional; some \"comuni\" have no \"frazioni\", but others have several dozen. The \"comune\" usually has the same name of the \"capoluogo\", but not always.\n\nIn practice, most \"frazioni\" are small villages or hamlets, occasionally a clump of houses. Not every hamlet is classified as a \"frazione\"; those that are not are often referred to as \"località\", for example, in the telephone book. On some occasions, \"frazioni\" can be more populated than the \"capoluogo\" of the \"comune\". Due to unusual circumstances or to the depopulation of the \"capoluogo\", the town hall and its administrative functions can move to one of the \"frazioni\": the \"comune\" still retains the name of the \"capoluogo\".\n\nHistorically, many \"frazioni\" came into being during the Fascist era, when a major effort was made to consolidate and rationalize the territorial subdivisions of the country. Sometimes, a \"frazione\" represents a former \"comune\" that was believed to be no longer viable. \n\nUntil 2000, the central government established the frazioni and defined their borders, except in the case of the five autonomous regions (see Regions of Italy), where this was controlled at the regional level. By the Legislative Decree 267/2000 to implement amendments to Title V of the Italian Constitution, the individual \"comuni\" now define the \"frazioni\" within their borders.\n\n\nUnder the former legislation, a \"frazione\" had the option of having a \"prosindaco\" (submayor), who was appointed by the mayor (\"il sindaco\") of the \"comune\", often on the recommendation of deliberative bodies such as the communal council (\"consiglio\") or the \"giunta\", or as a result of a petition by enough residents of the \"frazione\" involved; although there was no official provision for groups of \"frazioni\" joining forces with the appointment of a single \"prosindaco\", the case was frequent enough. Under current law, however, Article 54 of the d.lgs. 267/2000 provides that a mayor may delegate mayoral functions at the \"frazione\" level to a councillor of the \"comune\".\n\nIn many \"comuni\", in addition to their advisory function, the \"frazioni\" are endowed with their own clerks and recorders of deeds, but do not maintain their own civil records.\n\n"}
{"id": "53171611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53171611", "title": "Fred B. Kniffen", "text": "Fred B. Kniffen\n\nFred Bowerman Kniffen (January 18, 1900 – May 19, 1993) was an American geographer and distinguished professor in the Department of Geography and Anthropology at Louisiana State University for over 64 years. Kniffen had a background in anthropology, geography, and geology when he arrived at Louisiana State University in the late 1920s. While there, he made great strides in the Department of Geography and Anthropology that led to the development of new research areas, additional courses, and well trained graduate students. Kniffen stressed the importance of learning and understanding the History of Geography, along with blending physical geography and anthropology with cultural geography. During Kniffen's time at Louisiana State University, he was an advocate for interdisciplinary research. Kniffen became a distinguished professor in the department in 1966, later becoming Boyd professor in 1967.\n\nKniffen was born in Britton, Michigan, on January 18, 1900. Most of his ancestors were of English descent. Kniffen's father had many jobs while he was growing up, some of which included a lumberjack and a brickmaker. His mother was a school teacher who encouraged him to excel in his studies and instilled in him a passion for learning. When Kniffen was six years old, his family moved to Coffeyville, Kansas. There, he excelled in school and was able to skip a grade. The family then moved to Superior, Wisconsin after Kniffen's first year of high school. Once he completed high school, Kniffen enlisted in the army. Once out of service, Kniffen enrolled at the Superior State Normal School, where he earned college credits for three semesters. While taking courses at the Superior State, Kniffen had a strong desire to earn a university degree. He ultimately ended up transferring to the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Kniffen graduated with a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree in geology in 1922. After graduation, he bounced around from job to job, some of which included a pipe-fitter and a store keeper. Kniffen developed an interest in geography (especially the human aspect) during his undergraduate years at the University of Michigan as a result of long conversations with Carl O. Sauer. Therefore, he enrolled at the University of California, Berkeley to study geography and anthropology under Carl O. Sauer, Oskar Schmieder, and Alfred L. Kroeber. Kniffen's doctoral research focused on the Colorado River Delta's cultural and natural landscape. Kniffen graduated with his Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degree in 1929.\n\nOnce Kniffen received his doctorate degree, he promptly took a position as an assistant professor at Louisiana State University in the fall of 1929. During this time, one of Kniffen's main job duties included formalizing the geography curriculum in the department in tandem with other colleagues. Kniffen's teaching load during his early years was very intense (15 – 20 hours per week), and included courses in forest geology, mineralogy, and a handful of courses in geography. In the beginning of Kniffen's career at Louisiana State University, the Departments of Geography and Anthropology were initially separate. Kniffen was the head of the Department of Anthropology before the merge (of Geography and Anthropology). During this time, he taught courses in geography as well. Kniffen's courses were said to be rigorous, but widely popular with students. He was said to have a passion and enthusiasm for geography along with a very strong work ethic.\n\nIn 1951, along with colleague Richard J. Russell, Kniffen introduced the culture region concept in geography with the publishing of \"Culture Worlds\". This book remained standard in the discipline for over three decades. Kniffen emphasized cultural landscapes in many of his teaching styles. This was due in large part to his history at the University of California, Berkeley and his work with Carl O. Sauer, Oskar Schmieder, and Alfred L. Kroeber. Perhaps Kniffen's most widely recognized accomplishment and contribution to the discipline was in the topic of folk housing and folk geography. Kniffen's interest in this topic began in the late 1940s as he had several projects dealing with folk geography. Some of which include the folk-ways of sport hunting, geographical myths of Louisiana, and costumes of American working men. In addition to geography and anthropology, Kniffen conducted archaeological research, especially in Louisiana. Specifically, he conducted research on the geomorphic history of Bayou Manchac. There, he discovered three pottery assemblages, corresponding to varying time periods. Lastly, Kniffen contributed greatly to the understanding of French Louisiana by encouraging his students to conduct theses and dissertations on the topic.\n\nKniffen mentored seven Master of Science (M.S.) students, eight Master of Arts (M.A.) students, and twenty-eight Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) students during the period 1936 – 1970. He was also committee chair on numerous undergraduate theses while at Louisiana State University.\n\nKniffen died on May 19, 1993, at the age of 93 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. He is survived by his wife, three sons, a daughter, five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. At the time of Kniffen's death, the flag on campus was flown at half-mast.\n\nA professorship was established in his name in 1991 entitled the \"Fred B. Kniffen Professorship\". In 1994, a wing of the Geosciences Building on Louisiana State University's campus was named the \"Fred B. Kniffen\" wing. During the past sixty years, over thirty festschrifts, dedications, and tributes have been made in his honor.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44255536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44255536", "title": "Geology of Iran", "text": "Geology of Iran\n\nThe main points that are discussed in the geology of Iran include the study of the geological and structural units or zones; stratigraphy; magmatism and igneous rocks; ophiolite series and ultramafic rocks; and orogenic events in Iran.\n\nConsidering geological and structural units of Iran, three main structural units or zones could be distinguished in Iran. These units or zones are separated from each other by ophiolite–bearing sutures. Other criteria such as structural style, crustal character and age of basement consolidation, age and intensity of deformation, age and nature of magmatism, are used to subdivide these major zones into smaller elements. The three major units and their main constituents could be defined as the southern, central and northern units. The southern unit has a crystalline basement consolidated in the Precambrian time and a platform–type Paleozoic development and comprises the Zagros folded belt, southern and southwestern parts of the Zagros. This section made a part of the Arabian Plate that was located on the margin of Rodinia and Pannotia in the Neoproterozoic, and of Gondwana in the Paleozoic and Mesozoic. The central unit, which comprises the central Iran and the Alborz, is interpreted as an assemblage of fragments that were in the vicinity of the Arabian Plate and formed a marginal section of Rodinia and Pannotia in the Neoproterozoic and of Gondwana in the Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian and Devonian. These fragments were detached from Gondwana in the Carboniferous. They were submerged, moved northwards, and were finally attached to the Eurasian section of the northern supercontinent Laurasia in the Late Triassic. These fragments or microplates were fused together and made the Iranian Plate which was rejoined by Gondwanic Afro-Arabia in the Late Cretaceous. As Afro-Arabia moved northwards towards Eurasia, the Arabian Plate ultimately collided with the Iranian Plate in the Miocene. Finally there is the northern unit which is separated from the central unit by the North Iran Suture. It is characterized by continental crust including remnants of more or less cratonized former Paleozoic oceanic crust that seems to reflect the Paleotethys. The northern unit represents a marginal strip of the Hercynian realm of Central Asia- broadly overlapped by the Alpine realm. It was deformed and largely consolidated by the Early Cimmerian folding and the Late Alpine folding. The northern unit comprises the South Caspian Depression and the Kopet Dagh Range. These three main structural units are divided into some smaller geological and structural subdivisions which include the following zones:\n\nThis zone extends from Bandar Abbas in the south to Kermanshah in the northwest and continues through to Iraq. Zagros is in fact the northeastern edge of the Arabian plate. Some important features of Zagros include: Absence of magmatic and metamorphic events after Triassic, and low abundance of the outcrops of Paleozoic rocks. Structurally, it consists of large anticlines and small synclines and continuous marine sedimentation from the Carboniferous to the Miocene. On the whole, a sequence of Precambrian to Pliocene rocks about 8-10 kilometres in thickness has undergone folding from the Miocene to the Recent time in the Zagros Mountains. The Zagros fold and thrust belt was formed by the collision of two tectonic plates — the Iranian Plate and the Arabian Plate. This collision primarily happened during the Miocene and folded the entire rocks that had been deposited from the Carboniferous to the Miocene in the geosyncline in front of the Iranian Plate. The process of collision continues to the present and as the Arabian Plate is being pushed against the Iranian Plate, the Zagros Mountains and the Iranian Plateau are getting higher and higher. The Zagros mountain range, itself, has a totally sedimentary origin and is made primarily of limestone. In the Elevated Zagros or the Higher Zagros, the Paleozoic rocks could be found mainly in the upper and higher sections of the peaks of the Zagros Mountains along the Zagros main fault. On the both sides of this fault, there are Mesozoic rocks, a combination of Triassic and Jurassic rocks that are surrounded by Cretaceous rocks on the both sides. The Folded Zagros (the mountains south of the Elevated Zagros and almost parallel to the main Zagros fault) is formed mainly of Tertiary rocks, with the Paleogene rocks south of the Cretaceous rocks and then the Neogene rocks south of the Paleogene rocks.\n\nThis zone is located to the south-southwest of Central Iran and the northeastern edge of Zagros range. In the north and northeast, this zone is separated from Central Iran by depressions like Lake Orumiyeh, Gavkhouni and faults like Shahr-e-Babak and Abadeh, and to the south-southwest by the main thrust fault of Zagros. A striking feature of this zone is the presence of immense volumes of magmatic and metamorphic rocks of Paleozoic and Mesozoic eras. As far as the trends, and particularly the folding style is concerned, some researchers consider the Sanandaj–Sirjan Zone as being similar to Zagros; however, considerable differences exist in rock types, magmatism, metamorphism, and orogenic events. There are some similarities between Sanandaj–Sirjan and Central Iran.\n\nThis volcanic belt, which is usually called the Central Iranian Range, runs east and almost parallel to the Sanandaj–Sirjan Zone, and owes its existence to the widespread and intensive volcanic activity which developed on the Iranian plate from the Upper Cretaceous to Recent time. The peak of this volcanism happened in the Eocene. The Sahand-Bazman volcanic belt is supposed to have resulted from the collision of the Arabian and Central Iranian continental plate margins. It is represented by sub-alkaline volcanics that vary in composition from basaltic through andesitic to rhyolitic composition.\n\nLocated in a triangle in the middle of Iran, Central Iran is one of the most important and complicated structural zones in Iran. In this zone, rocks of all ages, from Precambrian to Quaternary, and several episodes of orogeny, metamorphism, and magmatism can be recognized. Central Iran in a broad sense, comprising the whole area between the North and South Iranian ranges. Within the Iranian plate the Central-East Iran microplate is bordered by the Great Kavir Fault in the north, by the Nain–Baft Fault in the west and southwest and by the Harirud Fault in the east. It is surrounded by the Upper Cretaceous to Lower Eocene ophiolite and ophiolitic melange. The microplate consists of different structural components; Kerman-Tabas Block, Yazd Block and Anarak-Khur Block.\n\nEastern Iran can be divided into two parts: Lut Block and Flysch Zone (flysch or coloured melange of Zabol–Baluch Zone). Located to the west of Zabol–Baluch Zone, Lut Block is the main body of Eastern Iran. Lut Block extends for about 900 km in a north–south direction. It is bounded in the north by Dorooneh fault and in the south by Jazmurian depression. In the east, it is separated from Flysch Zone by the Nehbandan fault, whereas the western boundary with Central Iran is Nayband fault and Shotori Mountains. The oldest units include upper Precambrian Lower Cambrian schists overlain by Permian limestone and other Paleozoic sedimentary rocks. Flysch Zone (Zabol–Baluch) is located between Lut Block to the west and Helmand (in Afghanistan) to the east. In contrast to Lut Block, the Flysch Zone is highly deformed and tectonized and consists of thick deep-sea sediments like argillaceous and silicic shales, radiolarite, and pelagic limestone and volcanic rocks such as basalt, spilitic basalt, diabase, andesite, dacite, rhyolite, and subordinate serpentinized ultramafic rocks. The basement is likely composed of an oceanic crust. Most rock units in this zone fall into three main groups: flyschoid sediments; volcanic, volcanosedimentary, and intrusive rocks; and ophiolitic series.\n\nSoutheastern Iran or Makran zone is located to the south of Jazmurian depression. Its western boundary is Minab fault; to the south, it is restricted by the Gulf of Oman, and to the east, it extends into Pakistan. The northern part is characterized by dominance of east–west trending faults, Bashagard fault being the most important one. Along these faults lies large section of ophiolite series. The oldest rocks in this zone are the ophiolites of Late Cretaceous–Paleocene overlain by a thick sequence (about 5,000 m) of sandstone, shale, and marl. The whole sequence is deformed prior to Early Miocene. Thick sequence of Neogene rock units, in excess of 5,000 m, covers the older series.\n\nThe northeastern active fold belt of Iran, the Kopet Dagh, is formed on the Hercynian metamorphosed basement at the southwestern margin of the Turan Platform. The belt is composed of about 10 kilometres of Mesozoic and Tertiary sediments (mostly carbonates) and, like the Zagros, was folded into long linear northwest-southeast trending folds during the last phase of the Alpine Orogeny, in the Miocene and Plio-Pleistocene time. No magmatic rocks are exposed in Kopet Dagh except for those in the basement in the Aghdarband and some Triassic basic dikes. This basin was located in the northeastern Iran. From Middle Jurassic, it was covered with a vast continental shelf sea. In this period of time and due to transgression as well as rapid subsidence basin, the western part became deeper. In this basin, a thick sequence of continuous marine and continental sediments was deposited (about 10 km). No major sedimentary gap or volcanic activities during Jurassic to Miocene have ever been reported. This sedimentary complex provides suitable conditions for accumulation of hydrocarbons. Kopet Dagh sedimentary rocks were placed in their current position due to uplifting at the end of the Miocene. The Kopet Dag Range, itself, is made chiefly of Cretaceous rocks with a smaller portion of Jurassic rocks in the southeastern parts. The mountains were mainly formed in the Miocene during the Alpine orogeny. As the Tethys Sea was closed and the Arabian Plate collided with the Iranian Plate and was pushed against it, and with the clockwise rotation of the Eurasian Plate towards the Iranian Plate and their final collision, the Iranian Plate was pressed against the Turan Platform. This collision folded the entire rocks that had been deposited in this geosyncline or basin from the Jurassic to the Miocene and formed the Kopet Dag Mountains.\nThe Alborz mountain range forms a barrier between the south Caspian and the Iranian plateau. This range is located in northern Iran, parallel to the southern margin of Caspian Sea. Alborz is characterized by the dominance of platform-type sediments, including limestone, dolostone, and clastic rocks. Rock units from Precambrian to Quaternary have been identified, with some hiatuses and unconformities in Paleozoic and Mesozoic. Unlike its northern and southern boundaries, (Caspian Sea and Central Iran, respectively) there is not a consensus regarding the eastern and the western limits of Alborz. The Binalud Mountains in the east, although the continuation of the Alborz, bear features comparable to those of Central Iran. The Alborz mountain range is only 60–130 km wide and consists of sedimentary series dating from Upper Devonian to Oligocene, prevalently Jurassic limestone over a granite core. Continental conditions regarding sedimentation are reflected by thick Devonian sandstones and by Jurassic shales containing coal seams. Marine conditions are reflected by Carboniferous and Permian strata that are composed mainly of limestones. In the Eastern Alborz Range, the far eastern section is formed by the Mesozoic (chiefly Triassic and Jurassic) rocks, while the western part of the Eastern Alborz Range is made primarily of the Paleozoic rocks. The Precambrian rocks can be found chiefly south of the city of Gorgan situated in the southeast of the Caspian Sea and in much smaller portions in the central and western parts of the Central Alborz Range. The central part of the Central Alborz Range is formed predominantly of the Triassic and Jurassic rocks, while the northwestern section of the range is made chiefly of Jurassic rocks. Very thick beds of the Tertiary (mostly of the Eocene) green volcanic tuffs and lavas are found mainly in the southwestern and south-central parts of the range. The far northwestern part of the Alborz that constitutes what is called the Western Alborz Range or the Talish Mountains is made mainly of the Upper Cretaceous volcano-sedimentary deposits with a strip of Paleozoic rocks and a band of Triassic and Jurassic rocks in the southern parts, both in a northwest-southeast direction. With the northward movement of Africa and the Arabian plate and with the closure of the Tethys Sea as the Arabian Plate collided with the Iranian Plate and was pushed against it, and with the clockwise movement of the Eurasian Plate towards the Iranian Plate and their final collision, the Iranian Plate was pressed from both sides. The collisions finally caused the folding of the Upper Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Paleogene rocks, and the Cenozoic (chiefly the Eocene) volcanism to form the Alborz Mountains mainly in the Miocene. The Alpine orogeny began, therefore, with Eocene volcanism in southwestern and south-central parts of the Alborz and continued with the uplift and folding of the older sedimentary rocks in the northwestern, central and eastern parts of the range during the orogenic phases of importance that date from the Miocene and the Pliocene epochs.\n\nThere is no agreement regarding the geological setting of Azerbaijan. According to some authors, the northeastern corner could be included in Alborz and the southeastern part in Sanandaj–Sirjan. Some believe that most of Azerbaijan lies in a zone called Azerbaijan–Alborz, and as they indicate, this zone is bounded in the north by Alborz fault, in the west by Tabriz–Urumiyeh fault, and in the south by Semnan fault. According to the some authors, the northern part of Azerbaijan continues to the Caucasus Mountains in Caucasia and the Pontus Mountains in Turkey and the Southern Azerbaijan is comparable with Central Iran and Western Iran and extends to the Taurus Mountains in Turkey. The significant structural event occurring in Early Devonian was accompanied by faulting and fragmentation that led to a different sedimentary facies in Azerbaijan. This orogenic episode generated the Tabriz fault, extending in a northwest–southeast direction from Zanjan depression to the northern mountains of Tabriz (Mishu, Morou) and northwest of Azerbaijan and the Caucasus. This event divided Azerbaijan into two blocks, one block in the northeast with subsidence and sedimentation in Early Devonian and the other in the southwest which remained high until Late Carboniferous.\n\nThe consolidation of the Iranian basement by metamorphism, partial granitization and partly by intense folding took place in the Late Precambrian. This event has been attributed to the 'Baikalian' or Pan–African Orogeny by various authors. Isotopic data of Iranian basement rocks give ages between 600 and 900 Ma. A similar range of isotopic data had been obtained for Arabian Shield rocks. An important post-Pan-African magmatism is documented by the widespread Doran Granite, which cuts the Upper Precambrian rocks and is covered by Lower Cambrian sediments. Late Precambrian postorogenic volcanics, mainly alkali rhyolite, rhyolite tuff and basic dikes are known in the Eocambrian formations. In North and Central Iran, Kahar and Gharehdash Formations and the lower half of the Soltanieh Formation are of Precambrian age. The oldest rocks in Iran belong to the Kushk Series consisting of clastic sediments, acidic volcanic, tuff, and carbonates (mainly dolomite). Other formations of Late Precambrian–Early Cambrian ages include Rizu volcanic-sedimentary Formation, Dezu and Tashk Formations, Aghda limestone, Kalmard Series, Shorm Beds, and Anarak metamorphic units. The sedimentary facies of Precambrian–Lower Cambrian rocks in Northern Iran is different from that of Central Iran.\n\nWith the Pan-African orogeny and following this orogenic episode, shallow marine sediments formed in Late Vendian. The influence of the orogenic episode is evident at the base of the Vendian sediments. Deposition of shallow marine sediments covered large areas in Iran during Paleozoic (e.g., Alborz, East of Iran, Zagros). There is strong stratigraphic evidence that transition from Vendian to Lower Cambrian was a progressive one, without hiatuses; there is no evidence for any orogenic or epeirogenic movements in Iran at this time (e.g., south of Zanjan, Valiabad Chalus, Shahin Dezh). Early Cambrian started with an alternation of shale, phosphate-bearing limestone, and dolomite sitting conformably and transitionally over Vendian dolomites. Transition from Soltanieh Formation to Barut, Zaigoon, and Laloon Formations is very difficult to recognize in the field. Middle Cambrian is characterized by uplift and regression; however, a renewed progression at this time led to the deposition of Mila and Kuhbonan Formations, consisting of limestone, dolomite, and shale, over older units. These formations bear trilobites and brachiopods of Middle and Late Cambrian. In some areas, the Late Cambrian carbonate facies turns transitionally into Ordovician graptolite shales, known as Lashkarak Formation in Alborz, Shirgasht Formation in Central Iran and Ilbeyk and Zardkuh Formations in Zagros. In Kalmard area, Ordovician sediments are sitting on the Vendian sediments through an angular unconformity. In Late Ordovician, most parts of Iran were affected by epeirogenic movements; this coincides with Caledonian orogeny in Europe and some other parts of the earth. The epeirogeny caused a distinct hiatus at the Ordovician–Silurian boundary. Where present, the Silurian rocks in Iran consist mainly of limestone, sandstone, shale and volcanic materials, known as Niur Formation in Central Iran. The Lower Devonian rocks have been reported from several localities in Central Iran (e.g., Tabas, Sourian, Kerman, Zagros); however, they seem to be missing in Alborz and parts of Zagros. Upper Devonian is characterized by marine transgression, particularly in Alborz, that extends into Lower Carboniferous. With exception of Tabas area, no record of Middle Carboniferous marine deposits has yet been discovered in Iran. Upper Carboniferous deposits are not significantly present in Iran and have only been identified in several localities from index goniatites. After a general regression and a distinct hiatus in Upper Carboniferous, Permian marine transgression deposits cover most parts of Iran (e.g., Alborz, Zagros, Central Iran); The Permian sediments are represented by Dorood sandstones, Ruteh and Nesen limestones in Alborz.\n\nThe Lower Triassic sediments in Iran are mainly of shallow marine or continental shelf nature (e.g., Doroud sandstones and Elika dolomites in Alborz, Sorkh shales and Shotori dolomites in Central Iran. A continuous Permian–Triassic sequence has been reported from several areas in Iran, including Jolfa (northwest of Iran), Abadeh (Southern Central Iran), and Southern Urumiyeh (the continuation of the Taurus in Turkey), north of Kandovan and Southern Amol. Transition from Middle to Upper Triassic coincides with Early Cimmerian orogenic episode, which led to the segmentation of the sedimentary basin into three sub-basins: Zagros in the south and southwest, Alborz in the north, and Central Iran. The Lower Jurassic rocks conformably overlie the Upper Triassic units; so are the Early Cretaceous deposits over the Upper Jurassic strata (e.g., Zagros). In North and Central Iran, the Upper Triassic and Lower–Middle Jurassic sediments have a detrital nature, consisting mainly of shale and sandstone with thicknesses varying from a few meters to more than 3,000 m. The presence of plant remains and coal beds suggest a continental or lagoon environment for the deposits. The Cretaceous deposits, characterized by diverse sedimentary facies, are widespread all over Iran. In Late Cretaceous, tectonic movements related to the Laramide orogeny affects most parts of Iran, leading to uplift, folding, and faulting. This is a prelude to significant developments in the geological evolution of Iran.\n\nIn Iran the Cenozoic begins with the Cretaceous–Paleocene boundary that is characterized by striking changes in sedimentary environments (e.g., Alborz, Central Iran). An unconformity has been reported from many locations in Iran. Both continuous and discontinuous transitions have been discovered between Paleocene and Eocene strata; as is the case with Eocene and Oligocene (e.g., Central Iran). The Oligocene and Miocene stages are characterized by rapid subsidence, deposition, and facies changes in both marine and continental sedimentary basins (e.g., Mahneshan and Halab south of Zanjan). Oligocene sediments in most parts of Iran are of shallow marine character, turning into marine facies in Upper Oligocene through Lower Miocene (e.g., Qom). The Middle–Upper Miocene sediments are mostly of continental nature. The Quaternary is the prominent feature of the plains of Iran.\n\nMagmatic rocks of all ages, from the Precambrian to the Quaternary, are widespread in Iran (e.g., Doran granite, Zarigan–Narigan granite, Torghabeh granite, Ghaen granite, Chaghand gabbro, Alvand granite, Natanz granite). A correlation exists between distribution of magmatic rocks and certain types of ore deposits (e.g., iron deposits in Bafq related to Zarigan–Narigan-type granites, Mazraeh copper deposits related to Sheyvar–Daghi granite, Sarcheshmeh porphyry deposit related to Sarcheshmeh porphyry body). Several episodes of magmatic activity have been identified in Iran. These episodes could be described as:\n\nVolcanic and plutonic rocks with an age of 630–530 million years have been reported from many localities in Iran, particularly in Central Iran and Azerbaijan. These magmatic rocks seem to be related to the Pan-African tectonic-magmatic episode. Most magmatic rocks of this time bear an alkaline nature. The following magmatic series can be attributed to this phase: Doran-type intrusions in Azerbaijan. Narigan and Zarigan-type intrusive bodies extend from Anarak to Bafq and Kuhbonan. Volcanic rocks, mostly of rhyolite composition, in Ghareh Dash, Azerbaijan. Volcanic rocks associated with Kushk Series in the Bafq area. Volcanic rocks of Rizu, Dezu, and Kushk Formations in Central Iran. Most Precambrian metamorphic rocks of greenschist or even amphibolite facies, such as in Takab and Anarak areas, seem to have originally been volcanic materials, either lava or pyroclastic rocks.\n\nMagmatic rocks of this time have been reported from many areas in Iran. Examples include basaltic rocks of Shahrud and Khosh Yeilagh, andesitic-basaltic units of Niur Formation in Central Iran, and tuffaceous materials in the upper parts of Mila Formation in Eastern Iran.\n\nVolcanic rocks of andesitic-basaltic composition accompany Upper Paleozoic sedimentary strata in many areas all over Iran. Basaltic rocks associated with Jeyrud Formation of Upper Devonian are a typical example. There is strong evidence for significant magmatic activities in Late Paleozoic–Early Mesozoic (Early Permian to Early Jurassic) in Iran. Examples include: Magmatic rocks in the Southern Sanandaj–Sirjan (granites and gabbros of Sirjan area) and volcanic rocks of Songhor Series in Northern Sanandaj–Sirjan. Ultramafic and mafic rocks and their metamorphosed equivalents could be observed in Eastern Iran (Fariman area), Taknar Series, Gorgan schists, and Shanderman mafic/ultramafic metamorphic series.\n\nThe Mesozoic magmatic rocks are associated with Cimmerian and Laramide orogenic events that caused continental and oceanic rifting, followed by closures and collisions in vast areas of Iran (e.g., Sanandaj–Sirjan). The Mesozoic magmatic rocks can be divided into three groups: Volcanic rocks: These rocks occurred mainly as a result of extension or tension related to the continental rifting, or subduction of the developed oceanic lithosphere under the continental lithosphere (e.g., Central Alborz for continental rifting; Saghez-Sanandaj axis for subduction). Intrusive rocks: Many intrusive bodies of mafic to granitic composition, with ages varying from early Triassic to Late Cretaceous, have been identified in Iran (e.g., Borujerd–Shamsabad axis). In Triassic–Jurassic, volcanic rocks predominated the plutonic rocks. They are mainly alkaline in nature and are more abundant in Sanandaj–Sirjan. In Jurassic–Cretaceous, intrusive rocks exceed volcanic rocks; a significant number of batholiths in Iran occurred at this time. Kolah Ghazi, Shir Kuh, and Shah Kuh were formed by Jurassic granite; and Mount Alvand was made by Upper Cretaceous-Paleocene granite.\n\nThe Tertiary is of great concern in Iran because of the great volumes and highly diverse types of igneous rocks and associated mineral deposits. Magmatic rocks of this age are widespread all over Iran, except in the Zagros and Kopet Dagh. Data from various structural zones indicate that the volcanic and plutonic activities started in the Late Cretaceous, peaked in the Eocene, and continued, with short stops, into the Quaternary. Some of the more important regions in terms of the Tertiary magmatic activities include: Sahand-Bazman (or Urumiyeh-Dokhtar) volcanic-plutonic belt with a series of famous mountain ranges including the Karkas Mountains and Jebal Barez and important peaks such as Karkas, Marshenan, Hezar and Lalehzar. The Tertiary magmatism could also be observed in Azerbaijan, Tarom–Taleghan, Central Alborz and its southern margins, Kavir–Sabzevar, Kashmar–Torbat-e Jam, Lut and Kavir, Central Iran, Sistan, Bam, Bazman, Taftan, East Iran, and Southern Jazmurian–Sabzevaran. The Quaternary volcanism produced very high peaks such as Sahand, Sabalan, Damavand, Taftan, Bazman and many others.\n\nOphiolite series and ultramafic rocks have a widespread occurrence in Iran and can be grouped as follows: Ultramafic and mafic units of Late Precambrian–Early Cambrian. Although comparable to modern ophiolites, these rocks do not display all typical features of an oceanic crust. The term “old ophiolite” might be a misnomer. These rocks are widespread in Takab and Anarak Regions. They might be representing a protorift. Ultramafic and mafic rocks of Upper Paleozoic occur as metamorphosed as well as non-metamorphosed bodies in some areas like Fariman, Shanderman, and Asalem. These rocks display many typical features of modern ophiolites. Ophiolite series of Early Cretaceous–Paleogene age show typical features of ophiolitic sequences and are thought to be associated with the closure of the Neotethys. These ophiolite series are widespread in Iran. Some of the more important locations include Kermanshah–Neyriz–Oman Belt, Makran (south of Jazmurian), ultramafic–mafic rocks related to Flysch Zone in Khash–Nosrat Abad–Birjand Belt, ultramafic and mafic rocks north of Dorooneh fault, Torbat-e Jam–Torbat-e Heydarieh–Sabzevar–Fariman regions, and Central Iran–Nain–Baft–Shahr-e Babak, Khoy–Maku. Ultramafic and mafic rocks also occur in association with large gabbroic intrusions. This type probably resulted from differentiation in a large mafic magma chamber, comparable to those of the layered mafic intrusions. Examples occur in Sero, Urumiyeh, and in Masooleh that are Late Cretaceous to Lower Oligocene in age. The most remarkable occurrence of ophiolite could be observed in the Bashagard Mountains in the southeast and the Jaghatai Mountains in the northeast of Iran.\n\nThe Pan-African orogeny is equivalent to Asynitic in other parts of the earth. This event was associated with metamorphism, magmatism, folding, and faulting during Late Precambrian–Early Cambrian in Iran (e.g., south of Zanjan–Mahabad in Azerbaijan, Bafq in Central Iran. This tectonic phase started with tension or extension leading to the formation of rifts and generation of oceanic crust (e.g., in Takab and Anarak) and ended with folding, closure, metamorphism, growth of the continental crust, and development of regional faults.\n\nThere was no considerable folding or faulting related to this event in Iran. The Caledonian orogeny in Iran is characterized by facies change in sedimentary basins, hiatuses, and epeirogenic movements (e.g., parts of Alborz, Zagros, and Central Iran). This phase, starting from Late Cambrian, caused the marine facies of Barut and Zaigoon Formations to change into the continental facies of Lalun Formation, and continued on to Late Devonian.\n\nThe effects of this orogenic episode in Iran can be traced from the Late Devonian. Due to the scarcity of magmatism, metamorphism, and folding related to this episode, the role of the Hercynian orogeny in Iran is controversial; the Hercynian in Iran is largely represented by extensional rather than compressional tectonics (e.g., Sanandaj–Sirjan). Iranian microplates east and northeast of the Zagros were detached from Gondwana in the Carboniferous during this orogenic phase.\n\nThe Early Cimmerian orogeny is one of the most important tectonic events in the geological history of the earth. Many diverse features are associated with this phase, including metamorphism, magmatism, folding, faulting, creation of new basins, and facies change. This event was associated with compressional tectonics in the northern Iran and tensional tectonics in the south. There is evidence that the compressional phase was preceded by tension and rift development. The compressional phase, happening in the Late Triassic, finally led to the closure of the Paleotethys (e.g., southeast to southwest of Caspian Sea). Iranian microplates that had been detached from Gondwana in the Carboniferous and that had been submerged and had moved northwards toward Laurasia finally collided with the Eurasian section of the northern supercontinent Laurasia in the Late Triassic.\n\nThe Late Cimmerian orogeny occurred as a significant tectonic event in Iran in Late Jurassic–Early Cretaceous times. This event is represented by folding, facies changes in sedimentary environments, angular unconformity, magmatism, and metamorphism (e.g., Alborz, Sanandaj–Sirjan, and Central Iran). The Jurassic granite of Kolah Ghazi, Shir Kuh, and Shah Kuh was made during this orogenic phase.\n\nThe Laramide orogeny happened in the Late Cretaceous–Paleocene and played a great role in the geological evolution of Iran. This event started under a compressional regime, followed by an extensional one. The compressional regime, that was associated with significant intrusive magmatic activities, led to the closure of the oceanic basins and Neothetyan rifts. In some areas, slices of the oceanic crust have obducted onto the continental margins producing what could be called ophiolite assemblages or coloured melanges (e.g., mostly seen suture zone between Sanandaj–Sirjan and Zagros, and alongside Nehbandan fault in the east of Iran). The Upper Cretaceous-Paleocene granite of Mount Alvand was formed during the Laramide orogeny.\n\nWith regards to the geological evidence, this event was of compressional nature. This tectonic phase is represented by significant changes in the sedimentary environments, plutonism, and metamorphism (e.g., west of Central Iran, south of Central Alborz, Lut). The Sahand-Bazman volcanic arc or belt was mainly formed during the Eocene volcanism of the Alpine orogeny. The northern movement and the final collision of Afro-Arabia (significantly the Arabian Plate) with the Iranian Plate and the clockwise rotation of the Eurasian Plate towards the Iranian Plate caused the Alpine orogeny with the Pyrenean phase in the Late Eocene- Early Oligocene and the Styrian phase in the Middle Miocene respectively. The Zagros, Alborz, and Kopet-Dagh mountains were mainly formed in the Miocene during this orogenic phase.\n\nThis orogenic phase began in the Late Pliocene and continued in the Pleistocene. The Pasadenian orogeny is the most important phase in forging the current shape of Iran. Some younger orogenic events might be the continuation of this orogenic phase (e.g., Alborz–Azerbaijan axis, Zagros, Central Iran). Sahand, Sabalan, Damavand, Bazman and Taftan were mainly formed during the volcanism of this orogenic phase. With an elevation of 5,610 metres, Mount Damavand is the highest peak in Iran. This volcano first erupted in the Pleistocene about 1.78 million years ago and after several known eruptions around 600,000 and 280,000 years ago, it finally erupted in the Holocene almost 7300 years ago.\n"}
{"id": "163225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163225", "title": "Geopolitics", "text": "Geopolitics\n\nGeopolitics (from Greek γῆ \"gê\" \"earth, land\" and πολιτική \"politikḗ\" \"politics\") is the study of the effects of geography (human and physical) on politics and international relations. While geopolitics usually refers to countries and relations between them, it may also focus on two other kinds of states: \"de facto\" independent states with limited international recognition and; relations between sub-national geopolitical entities, such as the federated states that make up a federation, confederation or a quasi-federal system.\n\nAt the level of international relations, geopolitics is a method of studying foreign policy to understand, explain and predict international political behavior through geographical variables. These include area studies, climate, topography, demography, natural resources, and applied science of the region being evaluated.\n\nGeopolitics focuses on political power linked to geographic space. In particular, territorial waters and land territory in correlation with diplomatic history. Outside academia, a variety of groups offer geopolitical analysis, including non-profit groups and for-profit private institutions (such as brokerage houses and consulting companies). Topics of geopolitics include relations between the interests of international political actors and interests focused within an area, a space, or a geographical element; relations which create a geopolitical system. \"Critical geopolitics\" deconstructs classical geopolitical theories, by showing their political/ideological functions for great powers.\n\nAccording to Christopher Gogwilt and other researchers, the term is currently being used to describe a broad spectrum of concepts, in a general sense used as \"a synonym for international political relations\", but more specifically \"to imply the global structure of such relations\", which builds on \"early-twentieth-century term for a pseudoscience of political geography\" and other pseudoscientific theories of historical and geographic determinism.\n\nOil and international competition over oil and gas resources was one of the main foci of the geopolitics literature from World War and onward. From about 2010, a new branch of the literature emerged, focusing on international power relations related to renewable energy.\n\nAlfred Thayer Mahan (1840–1914), a frequent commentator on world naval strategic and diplomatic affairs, believed that national greatness was inextricably associated with the sea—and particularly with its commercial use in peace and its control in war. Mahan's theoretical framework came from Antoine-Henri Jomini, and emphasized that strategic locations (such as chokepoints, canals, and coaling stations), as well as quantifiable levels of fighting power in a fleet, were conducive to control over the sea. He proposed six conditions required for a nation to have sea power:\n\n\nMahan distinguished a key region of the world in the Eurasian context, namely, the Central Zone of Asia lying between 30° and 40° north and stretching from Asia Minor to Japan. In this zone independent countries still survived – Turkey, Persia, Afghanistan, China, and Japan. Mahan regarded those countries, located between Britain and Russia, as if between \"Scylla and Charybdis\". Of the two monsters – Britain and Russia – it was the latter that Mahan considered more threatening to the fate of Central Asia. Mahan was impressed by Russia's transcontinental size and strategically favorable position for southward expansion. Therefore, he found it necessary for the Anglo-Saxon \"sea power\" to resist Russia.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian historian Emil Reich (1854–1910) is considered to be the first having coined the acceptance in English as early as 1902 and later in 1904 in his book \"Foundations of Modern Europe\".\n\nHomer Lea in \"The Day of the Saxon\" (1912) described that the entire Anglo-Saxon race faced a threat from German (Teuton), Russian (Slav), and Japanese expansionism: The \"fatal\" relationship of Russia, Japan, and Germany \"has now assumed through the urgency of natural forces a coalition directed against the survival of Saxon supremacy.\" It is \"a dreadful Dreibund\". Lea believed that while Japan moved against Far East and Russia against India, the Germans would strike at England, the center of the British Empire. He thought the Anglo-Saxons faced certain disaster from their militant opponents.\n\nSir Halford Mackinder's Heartland Theory initially received little attention outside geography, but some thinkers would claim that it subsequently influenced the foreign policies of world powers. Those scholars who look to MacKinder through critical lenses accept him as an organic strategist who tried to build a foreign policy vision for Britain with his Eurocentric analysis of historical geography. His formulation of the Heartland Theory was set out in his article entitled \"The Geographical Pivot of History\", published in England in 1904. Mackinder's doctrine of geopolitics involved concepts diametrically opposed to the notion of Alfred Thayer Mahan about the significance of navies (he coined the term \"sea power\") in world conflict. He saw navy as a basis of Colombian era empire (roughly from 1492 to the 19th century), and predicted the 20th century to be domain of land power. The Heartland theory hypothesized a huge empire being brought into existence in the Heartland—which wouldn't need to use coastal or transoceanic transport to remain coherent. The basic notions of Mackinder's doctrine involve considering the geography of the Earth as being divided into two sections: the World Island or Core, comprising Eurasia and Africa; and the Peripheral \"islands\", including the Americas, Australia, Japan, the British Isles, and Oceania. Not only was the Periphery noticeably smaller than the World Island, it necessarily required much sea transport to function at the technological level of the World Island—which contained sufficient natural resources for a developed economy.\n\nMackinder posited that the industrial centers of the Periphery were necessarily located in widely separated locations. The World Island could send its navy to destroy each one of them in turn, and could locate its own industries in a region further inland than the Periphery (so they would have a longer struggle reaching them, and would face a well-stocked industrial bastion). Mackinder called this region the \"Heartland\". It essentially comprised Central and Eastern Europe: Ukraine, Western Russia, and Mitteleuropa. The Heartland contained the grain reserves of Ukraine, and many other natural resources. Mackinder's notion of geopolitics was summed up when he said:\n\nNicholas J. Spykman is both a follower and critic of geostrategists Alfred Mahan, and Halford Mackinder. His work is based on assumptions similar to Mackinder's, including the unity of world politics and the world sea. He extends this to include the unity of the air. Spykman adopts Mackinder's divisions of the world, renaming some:\n\nUnder Spykman's theory, a Rimland separates the Heartland from ports that are usable throughout the year (that is, not frozen up during winter). Spykman suggested this required that attempts by Heartland nations (particularly Russia) to conquer ports in the Rimland must be prevented. Spykman modified Mackinder's formula on the relationship between the Heartland and the Rimland (or the inner crescent), claiming that \"Who controls the rimland rules Eurasia. Who rules Eurasia controls the destinies of the world.\" This theory can be traced in the origins of Containment, a U.S. policy on preventing the spread of Soviet influence after World War II (see also Truman Doctrine).\n\nAnother famous follower of Mackinder was Karl Haushofer who called Mackinder's Geographical Pivot of History a \"genius' scientific tractate.\" He commented on it: \"Never have I seen anything greater than those few pages of geopolitical masterwork.\" Mackinder located his Pivot, in the words of Haushofer, on \"one of the first solid, geopolitically and geographically irreproachable maps, presented to one of the earliest scientific forums of the planet – the Royal Geographic Society in London\" Haushofer adopted both Mackinder's Heartland thesis and his view of the Russian-German alliance – powers that Mackinder saw as the major contenders for control of Eurasia in the twentieth century. Following Mackinder he suggested an alliance with the Soviet Union and, advancing a step beyond Mackinder, added Japan to his design of the \"Eurasian Bloc.\"\n\nIn 2004, at the centenary of The Geographical Pivot of History, famous Historian Paul Kennedy wrote: \"Right now with hundreds of thousands of US troops in the Eurasian rimlands and with administration constantly explaining why it has to stay the course, it looks as if Washington is taking seriously Mackinder's injunction to ensure control of the geographical pivot of history.\"\n\nTwo famous Security Advisers from the Cold War period, Henry Kissinger and Zbigniew Brzezinski, argued to continue the United States geopolitical focus on Eurasia and, particularly on Russia, despite the dissolution of the USSR and the end of the Cold War. Both continued their influence on geopolitics after the end of the Cold War, writing books on the subject in the 1990s—\"Diplomacy (Kissinger 1994)\" and \"\". The Anglo-American classical geopolitical theories were revived.\n\nKissinger argued against the approach that with the dissolution of the USSR hostile intentions had disappeared and traditional foreign policy considerations no longer applied. \"They would argue … that Russia, regardless of who govern it, sits astride the territory Halford Mackinder called the geopolitical heartland, and is the heir to one of the most potent imperial traditions.\" Therefore the United States must \"maintain the global balance of power vis-à-vis the country with a long history of expansionism.\"\n\nAfter Russia, the second geopolitical threat remained Germany and, as Mackinder had feared ninety years ago, its partnership with Russia. During the Cold War, Kissinger argues, both sides of the Atlantic recognized that, \"unless America is organically involved in Europe, it would be obliged to involve itself later under circumstances far less favorable to both sides of the Atlantic. That is even more true today. Germany has become so strong that existing European institutions cannot by themselves strike a balance between Germany and its European partners. Nor can Europe, even with Germany, manage by itself […] Russia.\" Thus Kissinger belied it is in no country's interest that Germany and Russia should fixate on each other as a principal partner. They would raise fears of condominium. Without America, Britain and France cannot cope with Germany and Russia; and \"without Europe, America could turn … into an island off the shores of Eurasia.\"\n\nSpykman's vision of Eurasia was strongly confirmed: \"Geopolitically, America is an island off the shores of the large landmass of Eurasia, whose resources and population far exceed those of the United States. The domination by a single power of either of Eurasia's two principal spheres—Europe and Asia—remains a good definition of strategic danger for America. Cold War or no Cold War. For such a grouping would have the capacity to outstrip America economically and, in the end, militarily. That danger would have to be resisted even were the dominant power apparently benevolent, for if the intentions ever changed, America would find itself with a grossly diminished capacity for effective resistance and a growing inability to shape events.\" The main interest of the American leaders is maintaining the balance of power in Eurasia\n\nHaving converted from ideologist into geopolitician, Kissinger in retrospect interpreted the Cold War in geopolitical terms—an approach not characteristic for his works during the Cold War. Now, however, he stressed on the beginning of the Cold War: \"The objective of moral opposition to Communism had merged with the geopolitical task of containing the Soviet expansion.\" Nixon, he added, was geopolitical rather than ideological cold warrior.\n\nThree years after Kissinger's Dilpomacy, Brzezinski followed suit, launching \"\" and, after three more years, The Geostrategic Triad: Living with China, Europe, and Russia. The Grand Chessboard described the American triumph in the Cold War in terms of control over Eurasia: for the first time ever, a \"non-Eurasian\" power had emerged as a key arbiter of \"Eurasian\" power relations. The book states its purpose: \"The formulation of a comprehensive and integrated Eurasian geostrategy is therefore the purpose of this book.\" Although the power configuration underwent a revolutionary change, Brzezinski confirmed three years later, Eurasia was still a megacontinent. Like Spykman, Brzezinski acknowledges that: \"Cumulatively, Eurasia's power vastly overshadows America's.\"\n\nIn classical Spykman terms, Brzezinski formulized his geostrategic \"chessboard\" doctrine of Eurasia, which aims to prevent the unification of this megacontinent.\"Europe and Asia are politically and economically powerful…. It follows that… American foreign policy must…employ its influence in Eurasia in a manner that creates a stable continental equilibrium, with the United States as the political arbiter.… Eurasia is thus the chessboard on which the struggle for global primacy continues to be played, and that struggle involves geo- strategy – the strategic management of geopolitical interests…. But in the meantime it is imperative that no Eurasian challenger emerges, capable of dominating Eurasia and thus also of challenging America… For America the chief geopolitical prize is Eurasia…and America's global primacy is directly dependent on how long and how effectively its preponderance on the Eurasian continent is sustained.\"\n\nGerman \"Geopolitik\" is characterized by the belief that life of States—being similar to those of human beings and animals—is shaped by scientific determinism and social Darwinism. German geopolitics develops the concept of \"Lebensraum\" (living space) that is thought to be necessary to the development of a nation like a favorable natural environment would be for animals.\n\nFriedrich Ratzel (1844–1904), influenced by thinkers such as Darwin and zoologist Ernst Heinrich Haeckel, contributed to 'Geopolitik' by the expansion on the biological conception of geography, without a static conception of borders. Positing that states are organic and growing, with borders representing only a temporary stop in their movement, he held that the expanse of a state's borders is a reflection of the health of the nation—meaning that static countries are in decline. Ratzel published several papers, among which was the essay \"Lebensraum\" (1901) concerning biogeography. Ratzel created a foundation for the German variant of geopolitics, \"geopolitik\". Influenced by the American geostrategist Alfred Thayer Mahan, Ratzel wrote of aspirations for German naval reach, agreeing that sea power was self-sustaining, as the profit from trade would pay for the merchant marine, unlike land power.\n\nThe geopolitical theory of Ratzel has been criticized as being too sweeping, and his interpretation of human history and geography being too simple and mechanistic. Critically, he also underestimated the importance of social organization in the development of power.\n\nAfter World War I, the thoughts of Rudolf Kjellén and Ratzel were picked up and extended by a number of German authors such as Karl Haushofer (1869–1946), Erich Obst, Hermann Lautensach and Otto Maull. In 1923, Karl Haushofer founded the \"Zeitschrift für Geopolitik\" (Journal for Geopolitics), which was later used in the propaganda of Nazi Germany. The key concepts of Haushofer's Geopolitik were Lebensraum, autarky, pan-regions, and organic borders. States have, Haushofer argued, an undeniable right to seek natural borders which would guarantee autarky.\n\nHaushofer's influence within the Nazi Party has recently been challenged, given that Haushofer failed to incorporate the Nazis' racial ideology into his work. Popular views of the role of geopolitics in the Nazi Third Reich suggest a fundamental significance on the part of the geo-politicians in the ideological orientation of the Nazi state. Bassin (1987) reveals that these popular views are in important ways misleading and incorrect.\n\nDespite the numerous similarities and affinities between the two doctrines, geopolitics was always held suspect by the National Socialist ideologists. This was understandable, for the underlying philosophical orientation of geopolitics did not comply with that of National Socialism. Geopolitics shared Ratzel's scientific materialism and geographic determinism, and held that human society was determined by external influences—in the face of which qualities held innately by individuals or groups were of reduced or no significance. National Socialism rejected in principle both materialism and determinism and also elevated innate human qualities, in the form of a hypothesized 'racial character,' to the factor of greatest significance in the constitution of human society. These differences led after 1933 to friction and ultimately to open denunciation of geopolitics by Nazi ideologues. Nevertheless, German Geopolitik was discredited by its (mis)use in Nazi expansionist policy of World War II and has never achieved standing comparable to the pre-war period.\n\nThe resultant negative association, particularly in U.S. academic circles, between classical geopolitics and Nazi or imperialist ideology, is based on loose justifications. This has been observed in particular by critics of contemporary academic geography, and proponents of a \"neo\"-classical geopolitics in particular. These include Haverluk et al., who argue that the stigmatization of geopolitics in academia is unhelpful as geopolitics as a field of positivist inquiry maintains potential in researching and resolving topical, often politicized issues such as conflict resolution and prevention, and mitigating climate change.\n\nNegative associations with the term \"geopolitics\" and its practical application stemming from its association with World War II and pre-World War II German scholars and students of Geopolitics are largely specific to the field of academic Geography, and especially sub-disciplines of Human Geography such as Political Geography. However, this negative association is not as strong in disciplines such as History or Political Science, which make use of geopolitical concepts. Classical Geopolitics forms an important element of analysis for Military History as well as for subdisciplines of Political Science such as International Relations and Security Studies. This difference in disciplinary perspectives is addressed by Bert Chapman in \"Geopolitics: A Guide To the Issues\", in which Chapman makes note that academic and professional International Relations journals are more amenable to the study and analysis of Geopolitics, and in particular Classical Geopolitics, than contemporary academic journals in the field of Political Geography.\n\nIn disciplines outside Geography, Geopolitics is not negatively viewed (as it often is among academic geographers such as Carolyn Gallaher or Klaus Dodds) as a tool of Imperialism or associated with Nazism, but rather viewed as a valid and consistent manner of assessing major international geopolitical circumstances and events, not necessarily related to armed conflict or military operations.\n\nFrench geopolitical doctrines broadly opposed to German Geopolitik and reject the idea of a fixed geography. French geography is focused on the evolution of polymorphic territories being the result of mankind's actions. It also relies on the consideration of long time periods through a refusal to take specific events into account. This method has been theorized by Professor Lacoste according to three principles: Representation; Diachronie; and Diatopie.\n\nIn \"The Spirit of the Laws\", Montesquieu outlined the view that man and societies are influenced by climate. He believed that hotter climates create hot-tempered people and colder climates aloof people, whereas the mild climate of France is ideal for political systems. Considered as one of the founders of French geopolitics, Élisée Reclus, is the author of a book considered as a reference in modern geography (Nouvelle Géographie universelle). Alike Ratzel, he considers geography through a global vision. However, in complete opposition to Ratzel's vision, Reclus considers geography not to be unchanging; it is supposed to evolve commensurately to the development of human society. His marginal political views resulted in his rejection by academia.\n\nFrench geographer and geopolitician Jacques Ancel is considered to be the first theoretician of geopolitics in France, and gave a notable series of lectures at the European Center of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Paris and published \"Géopolitique\" in 1936. Like Reclus, Ancel rejects German determinist views on geopolitics (including Haushofer's doctrines).\n\nBraudel's broad view used insights from other social sciences, employed the concept of the \"longue durée\", and downplayed the importance of specific events. This method was inspired by the French geographer Paul Vidal de la Blache (who in turn was influenced by German thought, particularly that of Friedrich Ratzel whom he had met in Germany). Braudel's method was to analyse the interdependence between individuals and their environment. Vidalian geopolitics is based on varied forms of cartography and on \"possibilism\" (founded on a societal approach of geography—i.e. on the principle of spaces polymorphic faces depending from many factors among them mankind, culture, and ideas) as opposed to determinism.\n\nDue to the influence of German \"Geopolitik\" on French geopolitics, the latter were for a long time banished from academic works. In the mid-1970s, Yves Lacoste—a French geographer who was directly inspired by Ancel, Braudel and Vidal de la Blache—wrote \"La géographie, ça sert d'abord à faire la guerre\" (Geography first use is war) in 1976. This book—which is very famous in France—symbolizes the birth of this new school of geopolitics (if not so far the first French school of geopolitics as Ancel was very isolated in the 1930s–40s). Initially linked with communist party evolved to a less liberal approach. At the end of the 1980s he founded the Institut Français de Géopolitique (French Institute for Geopolitics) that publishes the Hérodote revue. While rejecting the generalizations and broad abstractions employed by the German and Anglo-American traditions (and the \"new geographers\"), this school does focus on spatial dimension of geopolitics affairs on different levels of analysis. This approach emphazises the importance of multi-level (or multi-scales) analysis and maps at the opposite of critical geopolitics which avoid such tools. Lacoste proposed that every conflict (both local or global) can be considered from a perspective grounded in three assumptions:\n\nConnected with this stream, and former member of Hérodote editorial board, the French geographer Michel Foucher developed a long term analysis of international borders. He coined various neologism among them: \"Horogenesis\": Neologism that describes the concept of studying the \"birth of borders\", \"Dyade\": border shared by two neighbouring states (for instance US territory has two terrestrial dyades : one with Canada and one with Mexico). The main book of this searcher \"Fronts et frontières\" (Fronts and borders) first published in 1991, without equivalent remains as of yet untranslated in English. Michel Foucher is an expert of the African Union for borders affairs.\n\nMore or less connected with this school, Stéphane Rosière can be quoted as the editor in Chief of the online journal \"L'Espace politique\", this journal created in 2007 became the most prominent French journal of political geography and Geopolitics with Hérodote.\n\nA much more conservative stream is personified by François Thual. Thual was a French expert in geopolitics, and a former official of the Ministry of Civil Defence. Thual taught geopolitics of the religions at the French War College, and has written thirty books devoted mainly to geopolitical method and its application to various parts of the world. He is particularly interested in the Orthodox, Shiite, and Buddhist religions, and in troubled regions like the Caucasus. Connected with F. Thual, Aymeric Chauprade, former professor of geopolitics at the French War College and now member of the extreme-right party \"Front national\", subscribes to a supposed \"new\" French school of geopolitics which advocates above all a return to \"realpolitik\" and \"clash of civilization\" (Huntington). The thought of this school is expressed through the French Review of Geopolitics (headed by Chauprade) and the International Academy of Geopolitics. Chauprade is a supporter of a Europe of nations, he advocates a European Union excluding Turkey, and a policy of compromise with Russia (in the frame of a Eurasian alliance which is \"en vogue\" among European extreme-right politists) and supports the idea of a multipolar world—including a balanced relationship between China and the U.S.\n\nIn the 1990s a senior researcher at the Institute of Philosophy, Russian Academy of Sciences of the Russian Academy of Sciences, (1957-2009), coined the term \"island-Russia\" and developed the \"Great Limitrophe\" concept.\n\nColonel-General Leonid Ivashov (retired), a Russian geopolitics specialist of the early 21st century, headed the Academy of Geopolitical Problems (), which analyzes the international and domestic situations and develops geopolitical doctrine. Earlier, Colonel-General Leonid Ivashov headed the Main Directorate for International Military Cooperation of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation.\n\nVladimir Karyakin, Leading Researcher at the , has proposed the term \"geopolitics of the third wave\".\n\nAleksandr Dugin, a Russian fascist and nationalist who has developed a close relationship with Russia's Academy of the General Staff wrote \"The Foundations of Geopolitics: The Geopolitical Future of Russia\" in 1997, which has had a large influence within the Russian military, police, and foreign policy elites.\n\nThe framework of \"Meta\"-geopolitics, proposed by Nayef Al-Rodhan combines traditional and new dimensions of geopolitics to offer a multidimensional view of power and power relationships. In this framework, the importance of geography is superseded by the combination of hard- and soft- power tools that states can employ to preserve and obtain power. \"Meta\"-geopolitics defines seven key dimensions of state power that include social and health issues, domestic politics, economics, environment, science and human potential, military and security issues, and international diplomacy. The \"Meta\"-geopolitics framework allows for the assessment of relative strengths and weaknesses as well as predictions about future trends. Furthermore, while this analytical grid is relevant for states, it also applies to private and transnational entities, which are playing an increasingly important role in contemporary geopolitics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "634585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634585", "title": "Halford Mackinder", "text": "Halford Mackinder\n\nSir Halford John Mackinder (15 February 1861 – 6 March 1947) was an English geographer, academic, politician, the first Principal of University Extension College, Reading (which became the University of Reading) and Director of the London School of Economics, who is regarded as one of the founding fathers of both geopolitics and geostrategy.\n\nMackinder was born in Gainsborough, Lincolnshire, England, the son of a doctor, and educated at Queen Elizabeth's Grammar School, Gainsborough (now Queen Elizabeth's High School), Epsom College and Christ Church, Oxford. At Oxford he started studying natural sciences, specialising in zoology under Henry Nottidge Moseley, who had been the naturalist on the Challenger expedition. When he turned to the study of history, he remarked that he was returning \"to an old interest and took up modern history with the idea of seeing how the theory of evolution would appear in human development\". He was a strong proponent of treating both physical geography and human geography as a single discipline. Mackinder served as President of the Oxford Union in 1883.\n\nHe received a degree in biology in 1883 and one in modern history the next year.\n\nIn 1887, he published \"On the Scope and Methods of Geography\", a manifesto for the \"New Geography\". A few months later, he was appointed as Reader in Geography at the University of Oxford, where he introduced the teaching of the subject. As Mackinder himself put it, \"a platform has been given to a geographer\". This was arguably at the time the most prestigious academic position for a British geographer.\n\nIn 1892, he was the first Principal of University Extension College, Reading, a role he retained until he was succeeded, in 1903, by William Macbride Childs. The college became the University of Reading in 1926, a progression that owed no small debt to his early stewardship of the institution.\n\nIn 1893, he was one of the founders of the Geographical Association, which promotes the teaching of geography in schools. He later became chairman of the GA from 1913 to 1946 and served as its President from 1916.\n\nIn 1895, he was one of the founders of the London School of Economics. At Oxford, Mackinder was the driving force behind the creation of a School of Geography in 1899. In the same year, he led an expedition which was the first to climb Mount Kenya.\n\nIn 1902, he published \"Britain and the British Seas\", which included the first comprehensive geomorphology of the British Isles and which became a classic in regional geography.\n\nHe was a member of the Coefficients dining club, set up in 1902 by the Fabian campaigners Sidney and Beatrice Webb, which brought together social reformers and advocates of national efficiency.\n\nIn 1904, Mackinder gave a paper on \"The Geographical Pivot of History\" at the Royal Geographical Society, in which he formulated the Heartland Theory. This is often considered as a, if not the, founding moment of geopolitics as a field of study, although Mackinder did not use the term. Whilst the Heartland Theory initially received little attention outside geography, this theory would later exercise some influence on the foreign policies of world powers.\n\nPossibly disappointed at not getting a full chairmanship, Mackinder left Oxford and became director of the London School of Economics in the same year. After 1908, he concentrated on advocating the cause of imperial unity and lectured only part-time. He stood unsuccessfully as a Unionist in a by-election for Hawick Burghs in 1909. He was elected to Parliament in January 1910 as Unionist Party member for the Glasgow Camlachie constituency and was defeated in 1922. He was knighted in the 1920 New Year Honours for his services as an MP.\n\nHis next major work, \"Democratic Ideals and Reality: A Study in the Politics of Reconstruction\", appeared in 1919. It followed the 1904 book titled \"The Geographic Pivot of the Hisotry\", and presented his theory of the Heartland and made a case for fully taking into account geopolitical factors at the Paris Peace conference and contrasted (geographical) reality with Woodrow Wilson's idealism. The book's most famous quote was: \"Who rules East Europe commands the Heartland; Who rules the Heartland commands the World Island; Who rules the World Island commands the World.\" This message was composed to convince the world statesmen at the Paris Peace conference of the crucial importance of Eastern Europe as the strategic route to the Heartland was interpreted as requiring a strip of buffer state to separate Germany and Russia. These were created by the peace negotiators but proved to be ineffective bulwarks in 1939 (although this may be seen as a failure of other, later statesmen during the interbellum). The principal concern of his work was to warn of the possibility of another major war (a warning also given by economist John Maynard Keynes).\n\nMackinder was anti-Bolshevik, and as British High Commissioner in Southern Russia in late 1919 and early 1920, during the Russian Civil War, he stressed the need for Britain to continue her support to the White Russian forces, which he attempted to unite.\n\nMackinder's last major work was the 1943 article, “The Round World and the Winning of the Peace,” in which he envisioned a post-war world. He reiterated and expanded his Heartland view of the world, suggesting that the Atlantic Ocean would be jumped, with North America's influence pulled into the region by its use of Britain as an \"moated aerodrome\". Elsewhere in the world, beyond the \"girdle of deserts and wilderness\", and the \"Great Ocean\" region of the Indo-Pacific Rim, was the \"Monsoon lands\" area of India and China that would grow in power.\n\nMackinder was contemporary of the Swedish political scientist Rudolf Kjellén, born three years later, which like him was a conservative deputy at the national parliament from 1910 until 1922 (year of his death). Both the two fathers of geopolitics and conservative politicians believed that the development of international transportation on land was growing to such a high rate \"that the advantage of the sea powers was more of historical importance. Hence, they argued that the pivot of the global political power was the land control of the Eurasia while a naval power -such as the Great Britain- was playing a secondary role. They disagreed about the Mackinder's emphasis on serving the British Empire.\n\nMackinder's work paved the way for the establishment of geography as a distinct discipline in the United Kingdom. His role in fostering the teaching of geography is probably greater than that of any other single British geographer.\n\nWhilst Oxford did not appoint a professor of Geography until 1934, both the University of Liverpool and University of Wales, Aberystwyth established professorial chairs in Geography in 1917. Mackinder himself became a full professor in Geography in the University of London (London School of Economics) in 1923.\n\nMackinder is often credited with introducing two new terms into the English language: \"manpower\" and \"heartland\". In 1944, he received the Charles P. Daley medal from the American Geographical Society, and in 1945 was awarded the Royal Geographical Society's Patron's Gold Medal for his service in the advancement of the science of Geography.\n\nThe Heartland Theory and more generally classical geopolitics and geostrategy were extremely influential in the making of US strategic policy during the period of the Cold War. Arguably it continued afterwards.\n\nEvidence of Mackinder's Heartland Theory can be found in the works of geopolitician Dimitri Kitsikis, particularly in his geopolitical model \"Intermediate Region\". To date, at least one academic study, by Mehmet Akif Okur, has critiqued the main perspective of his works.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "15402152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15402152", "title": "High Commissioner for the Western Pacific", "text": "High Commissioner for the Western Pacific\n\nThe High Commissioner for the Western Pacific was the chief executive officer of the British Western Pacific Territories, a British colonial entity, which existed from 1877 through 1976. Numerous colonial possessions were attached to the Territories at different times, the most durable constituent colonies being Fiji (1877 — 1952) and the Solomon Islands (1893 — 1976).\n\nThe office of High Commissioner never existed independently, but was always filled \"ex officio\" by the Governor of one of the constitutive British islands colonies. The High Commissioners were concurrently Governor of Fiji from 1877 to the end of 1952, although the office was suspended from 1942 through 1945, with most of the islands under British military rule and others, namely the Solomon Islands, Gilbert Islands and Phoenix Islands, under Japanese occupation. From 1 January 1953 to 1976, when the office was abolished, the Governor of the Solomon Islands doubled as High Commissioner. They administered from Suva and Honiara, respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "55226007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55226007", "title": "Hillslope evolution", "text": "Hillslope evolution\n\nHillslope evolution is the changes in the erosion rates, erosion styles and form of slopes of hills and mountains over time. \n\nDuring most of the 20th century three models of hillslope evolution were widely diffused: slope decline, slope replacement and parallel slope retreat. Until the 1950s models of hillslope form evolution were \"central\" in geomorphology. The modern understanding is that the evolution of slopes is much more complex than the classical models of decline, replacement and retreat imply.\n\nSlope decline was proposed by William Morris Davis in his cycle of erosion theory. It consists of a gradual decrease in slope angle as stream incision slows down. This is accompaigned as slopes becomes more gentle they accumulate with fine-grained regolith stemming from weathering.\n\nSlope replacement first proposed by Walther Penck challenging Davis' ideas on slope development. Slope replacement describes an evolution of slopes that is associated with decreasing rates of over-all erosion (denudation). It begins with a flatterning of the lowermost slope that propagates upward and backward making the uppermost slope recede and decrease its angle while it remains steeper than the lower portions.\n\nSlopes evolve by parallel retreat when rock strength remains constant and basal debris, like talus, is continuously removed. These conditions are often met in areas where hard horizontal rock layers of basalt or hard sedimentary rock overlie softer rocks. Slopes tend to cease to evolve by parallel retreat once overlying hard layers covering softer rock have been fully eroded. As rock strength is related to weathering and weathering to climate in the case a slope retreat over large distances or over long time-spans retreat is unlikely to remain fully parallel. This is because climate changes over time and over long distances. \n\nParallel slope and scarp retreat, albeit proposed by early geomorphologists, was notably championed by Lester Charles King. King considered scarp retreat and the coalescence of pediments into pediplains a dominant processes across the globe. Further he claimed that slope decline was a special case of slope development seen only in very weak rocks that could not maintain a scarp. Slopes that are convex upslope and concave downslope and have no free face were held by King to be a form that became common in the late Tertiary. King argued that this was the result of more slowly acting surface wash caused by carpets of grass which in turn would have resulted in relatively more soil creep.\n\nThe notion that slopes in an area do not develop all at the same time is known as unequal activity. Colin Hayter Crick, who coined the term, proposed that unequal activity may be regulated by removal of debris at the base of slopes. Following this thought erosion by the sea and lateral stream migration are of prime importance as these processes are effective in removing debris. Unequal activity does also imply there are great disparities between stream erosion near stream channels and apparently unchanged uplands, and between headwaters with limited erosion and the more active middle and lower courses of streams. From this it is derived that landscapes and slopes with limited river erosion may in many cases be considered as stagnant in their evolution.\n\nContrary to early conceptual models that attempt to predict slope form a number of numerical models of erosion focus on describing what is happening at any given time, and are not concerned with changes in form.\n\nAverage erosion rates for a slope has been estimated using numerical models. Using the heat transfer equation of Fourier as template W.E.H. Culling reasoned the flux of mass across the height gradient of a slope would could be described in a similar fashion as:\n\n\nOn the left-hand side is sediment flux which is the volume of the mass that passes a line each time unit (L/LT). \"K\" is a rate constant (L/T), and \"∇z\" the gradient or height difference between two points at a slope divided by their horizontal distance. This model imply sediment fluxes can be estimated from the slope angles (\"∇z\"). This has been shown to be true for low-angle slopes. For more steep slopes it is not possible to infer sediment fluxes. To address this reality the following model for high angle slopes can be applied: \n\n\n\"S\" stands here for the critical gradient which at which erosion and sediment fluxes runs away. This model show that when \"∇z\" is far from \"S\" it behaves like equation 1. On the contrary when \"∇z\" approaches \"S\" erosion rates becomes extremely high. This last feature may represent the behavior of landslides in steep terrain.\n\nAt low erosion rates increased stream or river incision may make gentle slopes evolve into convex forms. Convex forms can thus indirectly reflect accelerated crustal uplift and its associated river incision. As shown by equation 2 the angle of steep slopes changes very little even at very high increases of erosion rates, meaning that it is not possible to infer erosion rates from topography in steep slopes other than hinting they are much higher than for lower angle slopes.\n\nBeginning with the works of Grove Karl Gilbert (1909) and William Morris Davis (1892), soil-mantled convex or parabolic hills have long been held to reflect steady state equilibrium conditions of soil production and soil erosion. Contrary to what an equilibrium between the erosion rates functions described above and the soil production function should imply soil depth can vary considerably in parabolic hills as result of stochastic bedrock weathering into soil. This means that the expected soil formation rates from the soil production function might vary greatly across a landscape in geomorphic equilibrium.\n\nConvex hills are often associated to tors. Numerical modelling indicate that in periglacial settings broad low-angle convex hilltops can form in no less than millions of years. During the evolution of these slopes steeper initial slopes are calculated to result in the formation of numerous tors during the course of the loweing and broadening of the convex area. The presence of numerous tors would thus indicate that the original landscape was steeper and not flatter than present-day landscape.\n\n"}
{"id": "28267409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28267409", "title": "Janzen–Connell hypothesis", "text": "Janzen–Connell hypothesis\n\nThe Janzen–Connell hypothesis is a widely accepted explanation for the maintenance of tree species biodiversity in tropical rainforests. It was published independently in the early 1970s by Daniel Janzen and Joseph Connell. According to their hypothesis, host-specific herbivores, pathogens, or other natural enemies (often referred to as predators) make the areas near a parent tree (the seed producing tree) inhospitable for the survival of seedlings. These natural enemies are referred to as 'distance-responsive predators' if they kill seeds or seedlings near the parent tree, or 'density-dependent predators' if they kill seeds or seedlings where they are most abundant (which is typically near the parent tree). Such predators can prevent any one species from dominating the landscape, because if that species is too common, there will be few safe places for its seedlings to survive. However, because the predators are host-specific (also called specialists), they will not harm other tree species. As a result, if a species becomes very rare, then more predator-free areas will become available, giving that species' seedlings a competitive advantage. This negative feedback allows the tree species to coexist, and can be classified as a stabilizing mechanism.\n\nThe Janzen-Connell hypothesis has been called a special case of keystone predation, predator partitioning or the pest pressure hypothesis. The pest pressure hypothesis states that plant diversity is maintained by specialist natural enemies. The Janzen-Connell hypothesis expands on this, by claiming that the natural enemies are not only specialists, but also are distance-responsive or density-responsive.\n\nThis mechanism has been proposed as promoting diversity of forests as it promotes survival of a number of different plant species within one localized region. While previously thought to explain the high diversity of tropical forests in particular, subsequent research has demonstrated the applicability of the Janzen–Connell hypothesis in temperate settings as well. The Black Cherry is one such example of a temperate forest species whose growth patterns can still be explained by the Janzen–Connell hypothesis.\n\nDaniel Janzen published his hypothesis in 1970 in \"The American Naturalist\" under the article \"Herbivores and the Number of Tree Species in Tropical Forests.\" His hypothesis was based on the observation that in tropical forests (when compared to temperate forests), there were few new adult trees in the immediate vicinity of their parent tree. He explained the low density of tropical trees and lack of \"bunching\" of tree types around parent trees for two reasons: (1) the number of seeds decline with distance from the parent tree and (2) that the adult tree, its seeds, and seedlings are a source of food for host-specific parasites and diseases.\nUsing his observations, Janzen created a model demonstrating the probability of a seed maturation or a seedling survival as a function of distance from the parent tree (as well as total seed count, dispersal mechanism, and predatorial activity).\n\nJoseph Connell published his hypothesis in 1971 in Dynamics of Populations. Unlike Janzen, Connell proposed experiments that focused on the key prediction that exclusion of host-specific predators would cause a decrease in diversity as tree species with greater establishment or competitive ability formed low-diversity seedling and sapling communities where dominance was concentrated in a few species.\n\nHe formed his hypothesis through observations in Queensland, Australia. Along with Jack Greening Tracey and Larry Johnson Webb, he mapped trees in two rainforests and observed that smaller seedlings tended to occur in single-species clumps. Smaller seedlings also exhibited greater mortality, especially when their nearest neighbor was an individual of the same species. This pattern lessened with growth and age until seedlings exhibited similar pattern diversity to adults. To reinforce these observations, Connell ran an experiment showing that adult trees have a deleterious effect on smaller trees of the same species. In another experiment, Connell found that pre-germination predation was greater on seeds near adults of the same species than those near adults of others. Through these observations, Connell suggests that each tree species has host-specific enemies that attack it and any of its offspring which are close to the parent. This emphasizes the importance of the role of predation in preventing trees from forming single-species groves, which is probably the only way in which one species of tree could exclude others by interspecies competition.\n\nPlant pathogens follow infectious disease dynamics. The basic reproductive rate formula_1 of a disease is dependent on three variables such that:\n\n<br><br>\n<br>Where β is the transmission rate or infectiousness of the disease, \"L\" is the average infection time of the host, and \"S\" is the density of the host population. By decreasing any one of the variables, the reproduction rate of the disease decreases. Since seed dispersal is such that the highest density of seeds is around the parent with density decreasing with distance from the parent, the reproduction rate of a disease infecting seeds and seedlings will be highest around the parent and decrease with distance. Thus, seedlings close to the parent are likely to die due to the disease prevalence. However, seedlings farther away are less likely to encounter the disease and therefore will more likely grow into adults.\n\nSpecialist herbivores who consume plant matter can also be thought of as having a \"transmission rate\" between individuals similarly to a disease. Tree predators (especially herbivorous insects) are limited by the ease of movement. When individuals are closer together at high density, movement between trees is easier and the predators quickly spread out. However, at low tree density, predators can not find the next individual with as much ease and thus often have low transmission rates leading to less specialist predation.\n\nMany studies examining the Janzen–Connell hypothesis have shown supporting patterns with a number of tree species, but despite this there are also problematic aspects of the hypothesis.\n\nThere have been over 50 studies designed to test predictions of this hypothesis in tropical and other settings and most show that many tree species exhibit patterns consistent with Janzen–Connell effects. Studies that have supported the Janzen–Connell hypothesis:\n\nStudies questioning the Janzen–Connell hypothesis:\n\nIt is tricky to form conclusions regarding the accuracy of the Janzen–Connell hypothesis as it is difficult to falsify. This is because:\n\nIt is likely that a number of mechanisms underscore the coexistence of similar species and thus cause biodiversity in ecosystems. It is possible the Janzen–Connell hypothesis is applicable only for some species depending on species characteristics. The hypothesis may also be affected by the kind of predator or pathogen as preliminary research has shown that the hypothesis is true only when host-specific predators have limited mobility with a range less than the seed dispersal range.\n\n"}
{"id": "50047248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50047248", "title": "Kisumu–Kakamega–Webuye–Kitale Road", "text": "Kisumu–Kakamega–Webuye–Kitale Road\n\nThe Kisumu–Kakamega–Webuye–Kitale Road, is a rural road in Kenya. The road links Kisumu, in Kisumu County, to the towns of Kakamega, in Kakamega County, Webuye in Bungoma County, and Kitale in Trans-Nzoia County.\n\nThe road starts at Kisumu, on the northeastern shores of Lake Victoria. It takes a general northerly direction through Kakamega and Webuye, to end at Kitale, on the Suam–Endebess–Kitale–Eldoret Road, a total distance of about . The coordinates of the road, south of Kakamega are:0°15'08.0\"N, 34°45'01.0\"E (Latitude:0°15'08.0\"N; Longitude:34°45'01.0\"E).\n\nThis road is part of an important road corridor that links the four counties that it passes through, to markets in Uganda and South Sudan. The od also connects to Tanzania via the Isebania–Kisii–Ahero Road. The road is divided into three sections, namely (a) Kisumu–Kakamega (b) Kakamega–Webuye and (c) Webuye–Kitale. The road is designated as a Class A road, and is under the jurisdiction of Kenya National Highway Authority.\n\nBeginning in 2015, the Government of Kenya, through its parastatal KeNHA began to widn the road to 11 meters (36 feet), with shoulders, culverts, drainage channels, passing lanes, bus stops and access roads in urban centres. In some sections the road will be widened to dual carriage. The entire project is budgeted at KSh4.7 billion (approximately US$46.7 million). Work is expected to be complete in early 2017. *\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29435709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29435709", "title": "Krause Point", "text": "Krause Point\n\nKrause Point () is a low, ice-covered point in Antarctica, fronting on Davis Sea midway between Cape Torson and Cape Filchner. It was mapped from air photos taken by U.S. Navy Operation Highjump, 1946–47, and was named by the Advisory Committee on Antarctic Names for Glenn R. Krause, a photogrammetrist with the Navy Hydrographic Office, who served as a surveyor with the U.S. Navy Operation Windmill parties which established astronomical control stations along Wilhelm II, Knox and Budd coasts in 1947–48.\n"}
{"id": "50825076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50825076", "title": "Linpan in Chengdu Plain", "text": "Linpan in Chengdu Plain\n\nThe Linpan in Chengdu Plain is a special settlement in Chengdu Plain, Sichuan, China, which consists of farm house with woods around, irrigation system, farm land and is elementary unit of the village within the scattered locations. The rural landscape of Chengdu Plain is beautiful and unique because of the typical element \"Linpan\". The production, life and landscape features set in one of the rural settlement pattern that is formed with the history, which is in line with local rural living environment commonly known as \"Linpan Settlement in Chengdu Plain\".\n\nThe LinPan in Chengdu Plain, as a principle rusticity landscape in the Chengdu Plain might be define as a complex habitation mode. Generalized Linpan in Chengdu Plain refers to the Linpan Settlement system in the region of Chengdu Plain, also known as Linpan settlement. Moreover, LinPan in Chengdu Plain are the representative of farming type in western Sichuan that combine production and daily life in one landscape. It is understood that the cores of Linpan in Chengdu plain are trees and bamboo, but the main inscapes of this landscape are water, houses and fields, including any kinds of natural and artificial elements. It is usually inhabited by surname or clan as settlement units showing the layout in a decentralized manner and in the form of a typical natural villages. Small-scale Linpan generally have only a few dozen peasant families, however large-scale Linpan may contain hundreds of households.\n\nLinpan in Chengdu Plain originated during the and formed in a long period of immigration, which has been thousands of years history. It is not only reflected in the local farming culture, but also is the crystallization of traditional farming civilization era. The Linpan Settlement system coordinates with local farming conditions, traditional farming behavior and living life, and plays a crucial role in preserving the environment of Chengdu Plain. Furthermore, it has society, culture, aesthetic and ecology value and make the rural landscape of Chengdu Plain different from the other area of China. The key reasons that it came into being, can be analyzed as natural environment, farm culture, the history of immigration, society culture.\n\nThe rural landscape of Chengdu can be described as patches(the vast plain of farm land ), corridors(roads and irrigation Canals ), and matrixes(small matrixes are thousands of Linpans, big ones are towns). Linpan is the key element that make Chengdu rural landscape unique.\n\nLinpan Settlement in Chengdu Plain inherited Chinese traditional farming culture and has a farming history for thousands of years, but it also has its own characteristics. Sichuan is a historic and typical region of traditional intensive farming culture in China, while the Chengdu Plain, is an important place of origin and development of this culture. Chengdu Plain provides the requisite conditions for the continuation and development of the farming culture, such as pleasant environmental conditions, warm and humid climate, abundant water and fertile land.\n\nIn the second place, Linpan in Chengdu Plain combines the Dujiangyan irrigation system, agricultural production, family system and lifestyle, that integrates the daily life in Chengdu Plain, production and ecological environment. It is a perfect combined spatial form of cultural symbol and use value. Linpan in Chengdu Plain formed as the basis of millennial Dujiangyan irrigation works, which solved the decisive factor, water, for the farming culture development. Formed a pattern of ecological farming, which regard Dujiangyan irrigation system as its core, Chengdu plain as its hinterland and Longquan Range as its protective screen. The intensive Linpan Settlements, fully reflects the farming culture which has the Sichuan water cultural characteristic.\n\nChengdu Plain irrigated by the Dujiangyan irrigation system is a semi-natural wetland ecosystems. It provides a habitat for birds, but also provides a food base and living space for human beings. The symbiosis of people and woods even more continues today. The mainly landscape elements in this living environment are fields, woods, farmhouse and water and these four main elements are harmony and interdependence：\n\nIn terms of vegetation other than crops, the dominant plant type in Chengdu Plain is evergreen broad-leaved forest because Chengdu locates in the subtropical humid monsoon climate zone. Affected by the same rainfall and heat pattern, Linpan demonstrates similar zonal characteristics in the natural distribution of plant community structure with some distinctive variations. In the Linpan landscape, the main vegetation types surrounding residential buildings are evergreen broad-leaved forests and bamboo stands with frequencies of 25% and 32%, respectively. In contrast to the overall high biodiversity of Linpan as a rural settlement, the vegetation around houses are rather uniform. In most farming Linpan, the plant structure is dominated by a single type of tree or bamboo such as Metasequoia or Cedar. The relatively mixed forests mostly exist in Linpan aiming at developing rural tourism.\n\nThe whole Linpan settlement in Chengdu Plain that lies between the cities and towns as roads crisscross, coupled with the water-intensive. It is in space to form a \"checkerboard\" pattern, such a network, which distributed a number of scattered Linpan landscape units. Linpan Settlement generally based on single-family or family group as a unit, scattered among the field.\n\nIn terms of shape it is characterized by small-scale and recognizability. The scale of the farm village in Chengdu Plain is very small. The radius of the buildings, surrounding courtyards and bamboos always within 30 meters. This kind of compact small village has a strong identifiable and easy for people to grasp farming activities.\n\nThe buildings in Linpan are generally typical one-story Western Sichuan folk residential buildings with Galley or L-shape layout built by individual household respectively. Usually, 3-5 household form a small Linpan unit, and 20-30 households form a big Linpan unit，which are surrounded by tall trees and bamboos to shelter from wind.\n\nOne of the most significant features of Linpan and almost all Western Sichuan folk housing is that the buildings always enclose a courtyard called “Baba”, and “Baba” is where most domestic and interactive activities happen. People dry crops, hang out washed clothes, talk and play Mahjong with neighbors, and even host family banquets (Baba Yan) in the \"Baba\" courtyards.\n\nChengdu Plain is a relatively independent and complete geographic unit sitting in the western Sichuan Basin. The area of Chengdu Plain is about 9100 square kilometers in size and 450–750 meters in altitude. Chengdu Plain is a river alluvial plain, and its fertile soil and large open flat land provides a firm foundation for farming development. In addition, the mild subtropical monsoon climate brings rich heat and abundant rainfall, making it suitable for human habitation and production. With the warm winter and the early spring, crops and bamboos can grow year round. Another unique advantage of Chengdu Plain is the well-developed irrigation system. After the construction of Dujiangyan, most farmland achieved gravity irrigation. Along with ample surface and groundwater resources, the dispersed rural living pattern became possible.\n\nThe relatively stable climate and advanced water irrigation and management system in western Sichuan provide a powerful guarantee for the independent farming of individual households. In order to promote crop production, farmers choose to live scattered near their own land to devote more labor to intensive rice farming. In addition, the scattered pattern solves the shortcomings of long distance transportation in the fields. Moreover, surplus manpower and large courtyards make it possible for farmers to supplement agricultural income by operating home textiles, bamboo basket weaving or raising livestock, and grow fruits and vegetables. With all these factors, the production of the Linpan gradually evolved into the current pattern.\n\nThere have been six large-scale migrations in history from other provinces to Sichuan province, creating the unique and inclusive culture of an immigrant society. Migrants promoted the social and economic development of the region in many ways and various customs they introduced created the compatible features of a new culture. During the migration process, bloodlines were broken and the concept of clans was diluted, so rather than being bind by kinships, people were more related by geographic and production approximaty. In the new settlements, people could be equal regardless of their origins, allowing the Linpan culture of a scattered living pattern to flourish.\n\nWestern Sichuan Plain is an important source of Taoism. Since the , people living in the region have valued nature and freedom over careers and regulations. Later generations of the Shu in the unique geographical and cultural environment also inherited the philosophy of prioritizing pleasure, leisure, and the freedom of life, which formed the social basis for Linpan culture. Another reason explaining the settlement pattern is the tradition of living separately in single-family homes instead of large unified homes with parents and relatives. By splitting up into smaller units, there are more initiative and flexibility for households to live and produce.\n\nLinpan Settlement mainly distributed in the Chengdu Plain, however, Chengdu Plain belongs to the Sichuan Basin. Sichuan Basin is one of the famous big basin in china, whose terrain is relatively inaccessible. It is surrounded by 1000–2000 meters above sea level mountain, one of the few mountain up to an altitude of 3000–4000 meters. Basin covers an area of about 170,000 square kilometers, mostly in elevation between 300–700 meters.\n\nThe Chengdu Plain covers an area of about 23,000 square kilometers and is the largest plain in southwestern China. It lies on the marginal region of the Sichuan Basin and rivers from the high mountains to the north and west brings soil and water supply to the vast land. The Chengdu Plain located among Longquan range, Longmen Mountains and Qionglai Mountains. The great Minjiang River, together with its tributaries, runs across the Chengdu Plain to form an expansive water network. Because the formation of factors, Linpan mainly distributed in flat terrain area, that the most typical ones are in Chengdu Plain. In addition to Sichuan in China's western provinces of Yunnan, Guizhou and other places also have distribution.\n\nThe typical Linpan Settlements mainly distributed in 14 districts(cities) of Chengdu Plain are Longquanyi District, Pi County, Wenjiang District, Shuangliu District, Xindu District, Qingbaijiang District, Dayi County, Xinjin County, Jintang County, Pujiang County, Dujiangyan City, Pengzhou, Chongzhou City, Qionglai City,covers an area of 11,711 square kilometers. According to statistics, Linpan in Chengdu Plain demonstrate a wide distribution (area of 9482 square kilometers). a total of 141,100 existing Linpan, Linpan total area of 67,679.87 hectares, the population living within Linpan 449.03 million, accounting for 41.50 percent of the total population of the city region, representing the city 77.09% of the total rural population; Linpan per capita area of 150 square meters. The number of existing Linpan is around 141,100, with a total area of 67,679.87 hectares. The resident population of Linpan in Chengdu is about 449.03 million, accounting for 41.50% of the total population of the city region and 77.09% of the city total rural population.\n\nThis type of Linpan settlement mainly focus on agricultural production. The vegetation and buildings in this kind of Linpan Settlement should harmonize with the fields, and it is the ecological residence of the rural population who engaged in agricultural activities. It is also the typical vector, which is the symbiosis of people, fields, buildings, woods and water. There are some unique spatial features of the farming Linpan, which provide spaces for drying cereals and corn, stacking farming tools, intensively-reared livestock etc. These characteristics are reflected that in this kind of Linpan settlement farming as the main mode of industrial structure.\n\nWith the change of time, social development, improvement of living standards and the progress of rural-urban integration, at the same time Linpan also changing.The villagers no longer satisfied with living a life of self-sufficient farming, they move to the urban area from Linpan Settlement, that causing some empty linpan Settlements. The role of these \"Empty Linpan\" is no longer for living, but has transformed to the ecological Linpan which has an ecological function for preserving the local environment.\n\nAt present, the rapid population growth led to urban sprawl and dwindling agricultural land resources. rural tourism as a compound of agricultural production and economic activities has become more and more popular. Thus, Rural Tourism type of Linpan emerged in Chengdu Plain. This type of Linpan mostly located in suburban areas, relying on agricultural production and make full use of the environment and transport advantages to develop rural inn and farmhouse catering services.It not only can satisfy local people's production and living needs, but also provide a tourism and vacation place for urban residents.\n\nThe main function of agricultural and forest land in specific industrial Linpan is production. Generally, the in the requirements of landscape aesthetic is less than the other types of Linpan. This type of Linpan create the multiple agricultural eco-landscape. This kind of Linpan make use of the traditional specific industry and enhance it, such as anti-season greenhouse vegetables and fruits, courtyard economy, livestock raising and other specific industries.\n\nWith the implementation of changes in land use policies and urban-rural integration in China, most households are grouped together as a group-type settlement during the new rural construction. The original distribution of Linpan formula has been greatly affected by the construction practices of farmers and the government, and the distance between farmers and land is also pulled away. Many factors can cause the number of Linpan Settlement dwindle. On one hand, many Linpan Settlement were removed or merged into a larger one. On the other hand, with the increasing number of part of the Linpan dwellers drift into cities, many Linpan Settlements are lack of management and change to be “Hollow Linpan”. All of these lead the number of Linpan Settlement decreasing each year. Pi County, a country near Chengdu, had more than 11,000 Linpan Settlement while there only has 8,000 now. A recent survey shows that the number of Linpan which holds more than 10 households living in is less than 900.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43719974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43719974", "title": "List of Dahlia cultivars", "text": "List of Dahlia cultivars\n\nThe horticultural cultivation of the dahlia plant has resulted in over 57,000 registered cultivars of dahlia. Several of them are listed below.\n\n\"Dahlia\" 'Akita' is a branching, tuberous tender perennial cultivar with large chrysanthemum petals in shades of dark crimson to red, blending to yellow toward the heart. Their tips are white on the underside. The flowers are as large as 5 in. wide (13 cm). This dahlia belongs to the Novelty Fully Double classification and has won over 60 awards.\nPlant Profile:\nHeight:36-48 in. (90–120 cm);\nSpread: 45 cm (18 in);\nHardiness: Half hardy\n\nDahlia 'Alfred Grille' is a branching, tuberous, tender, perennial cultivar with large salmon-pink, elongated petals blending to yellow toward their center. The flowers are as large as 6-8 in. wide (15–20 cm). This dahlia belongs to the Cactus classification and was introduced by Ernst Severin in 1963 in Germany.\nPlant Profile:\nHeight:40 in. (100 cm); \nSpread: 45 cm (18 in);\nHardiness: Half hardy\n\n\"Dahlia\" 'Apache' is a branching, tuberous tender perennial cultivar with bright red flowers, as large as 6-8 in. wide (15–20 cm). This Dahlia belongs to the Laciniated Dahlia classification.\nPlant Profile:\nHeight:36 in. (90 cm); \nSpread: 45 cm (18 in); \nHardiness: Half hardy\n\n\"Dahlia\" 'Arabian Night' is a branching, tuberous tender perennial cultivar with deep-red flowers, almost black looking, with slightly incurved petals. The fully double flowers are as large as 4 in. wide (10 cm). This Dahlia belongs to the Decorative Dahlias classification and was introduced in the Netherlands by Weijers in 1951.\n\nPlant Profile:\nHeight:36-48 in. (90–120 cm); \nSpread: 45 cm (18 in); \nHardiness: Half hardy\n\n\"Dahlia\" 'Babylon Bronze' is a branching, tuberous tender perennial cultivar with fully double orange blossoms. The flowers are as large as 8-10 in. wide (20–25 cm). This Dahlia belongs to the Decorative Dahlia classification and was introduced in the Netherlands by Fa Van Slageren in 1995.\nPlant Profile:\nHeight:40-44 in. (100–110 cm); \nSpread: 45 cm (18 in); \nHardiness: Half hardy\n\n\"Dahlia\" 'Babylon Pink' is a branching, tuberous tender perennial cultivar with fully double pink blossoms. The flowers are as large as 8-10 in. wide (20–25 cm). This Dahlia belongs to the Decorative Dahlia classification and was introduced in the Netherlands by Fa Van Slageren in 1994.\nPlant Profile:\nHeight:40-44 in. (100–110 cm); \nSpread: 45 cm (18 in); \nHardiness: Half hardy\n\nDahlia 'Bora Bora' is a branching, tuberous tender perennial cultivar with coral-pink flowers blending to gold at their heart. The flowers are as large as 6-8 in. wide (15–20 cm). This Dahlia belongs to the Cactus classification and was introduced By Plochaet, H in 1997 in Belgium.\n\nPlant Profile:\nHeight: 36 in. (90 cm); \nSpread: 45 cm (18 in); \nHardiness: Half hardy\n\nDahlia 'Bridge View Aloha' is a branching, tuberous tender perennial cultivar with golden flowers flushed with scarlet at their tips. The fully double flowers are as large as 8 in. wide (20 cm) and enjoy elongated petals. This Dahlia belongs to the Semi-Cactus Dahlias classification and won the Award of Garden Merit of the Royal Horticultural Society in 1996.\n\nPlant Profile:\nHeight: 56 in. (140 cm);\nSpread: 45 cm (18 in);\nHardiness: Half hardy\n\n\"Dahlia\" 'Chat Noir' (Black Cat) is a branching, tuberous tender perennial cultivar with deep red, elongated petals. The flowers are as large as 6-8 in. wide (15–20 cm). This Dahlia belongs to the Semi Cactus Dahlia classification and was introduced in France by Ernest Turc in 1975.\nPlant Profile:\nHeight:36-48 in. (90–120 cm); \nSpread: 45 cm (18 in); \nHardiness: Half hardy\n\n\"Dahlia\" 'Mrs Eileen' is a branching, tuberous, tender, perennial cultivar with bright orange flowers, as large as 6-8 in. wide (15–20 cm). This dahlia belongs to the Formal Decorative Dahlia classification.\nPlant Profile:\nHeight:36-48 in. (90–120 cm); \nSpread: 45 cm (18 in); \nHardiness: Half hardy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58722830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58722830", "title": "List of Donald mountains in Scotland", "text": "List of Donald mountains in Scotland\n\nThis is a list of Donald mountains in Scotland by height. Donalds were defined in 1935 by Scottish Mountaineering Club (\"SMC\") member Percy Donald, as Scottish lowlands mountains over in height, the general requirement to be called a \"mountain\" in the British Isles, and over in prominence, and which also had \"sufficient topographical merit\" that he outlined in a complex formula. \n\nThis formula splits Donald's into Donald Hills and Donald Tops. The SMC define Donald Tops as: \"elevations in the Scottish Lowlands of at least 2000ft (610m) in height with a drop of at least 50ft (15.2m) between each elevation and any higher elevation. Further, elevations separated from higher elevations by a drop of less than 100ft (30.5m) are required to have \"sufficient topographical merit\". In addition, the SMC define Donald Hills as being: \"defined from Donald Tops, where a Hill is the highest Top with a separation of 17 units or less. A unit is either one-twelfth of a mile along a Top's connecting ridge or 50ft (30.5m) in elevation between the Top and its connecting bealach/col. The separation is the sum of these two measures.\" \n\nThe SMC note that: \"Percy Donald's original Tables are seen as a complete entity, unlike the Munros, Corbetts and Grahams\"; thus many Donalds are also Corbetts or Grahams. Percey Donald's original 1935 list recorded 133 Donalds, however since 1997, the SMC records 140 Donalds in the Scottish lowlands, split into 89 Donald Hills and 51 Donald Tops. While the prominence of Donald Hills is over , the prominence of a Donald Top can range from , as in the case of Cairn Hill West Top, to , in the case of Beninner.\n\nNew Donalds were introduced by Alan Dawson in his 1995 book, \"The Grahams and the New Donalds\", with a prominence threshold of , and that the location was south of the Highland Boundary Fault; there are 118 New Donalds, and while all Donald Hills are New Donalds, 22 Donald Tops are not. Climbers who climb all SMC Donalds are called \"Donaldists\", the first being Percy Donald on 23 May 1933; a list is maintained.\n\nThis list is from the \"Database of British and Irish Hills\" (\"DoBIH\") in October 2018, and are peaks the DoBIH marks as being Donalds (\"D\" and \"DT\"). The SMC does not update the list of Donalds (they are fixed), however the DoBIH also updates their measurements as more surveys are recorded, so these tables should not be amended or updated unless the entire DoBIH data is re-downloaded again.\n\nThe DoBIH uses the following codes for the various classifications of mountains and hills in the British Isles, which many of the above peaks also fall into:\n<br>\n\nsuffixes:<br>\n= twin\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12283002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12283002", "title": "List of Orkney islands", "text": "List of Orkney islands\n\nThis is a list of Orkney islands in Scotland. The Orkney archipelago is located north of mainland Scotland and comprises over 70 islands and skerries, of which 20 are permanently inhabited. In addition to the Orkney Mainland there are three groups of islands. The North and South Isles lie respectively north and south of Mainland. The Pentland Skerries are a group of small islands in the Pentland Firth, a dangerous stretch of water between mainland Scotland and the larger islands of Orkney, through which run the strongest tidal streams in Britain. The Isle of Stroma is often mistakenly included with the Orkney Islands, but is part of Caithness.\nThe definition of an island used in this list is that it is 'land that is surrounded by seawater on a daily basis, but not necessarily at all stages of the tide, excluding human devices such as bridges and causeways'. There are four islands joined to the Orkney Mainland by a series of causeways known as the Churchill Barriers. They are South Ronaldsay, Burray, Lamb Holm and Glims Holm. In addition, Hunda is connected to Burray by a causeway. The barriers were constructed by Italian prisoners-of-war as a means of preventing enemy submarine access to the vast natural harbour of Scapa Flow after the sinking of HMS \"Royal Oak\" by a German U-boat in 1939 with the loss of 883 lives. The Italian prisoners constructed a small Roman Catholic chapel on Lamb Holm as a place of worship during their incarceration.\n\nMost of the islands have a bedrock formed from Old Red Sandstone, which is about 400 million years old, and was laid down in the Devonian period. The islands have good agricultural qualities and have been continuously inhabited for thousands of years, as evidenced by the World Heritage Site of the Heart of Neolithic Orkney. The archipelago is exposed to wind and tide, and there are numerous lighthouses as an aid to navigation. The European Marine Energy Centre, which is located at Stromness, is currently testing various wave and tidal energy devices from Billia Croo on the Mainland and Eday. The islands all fall within the Orkney Islands Council area. Most of the larger islands have development trusts that support the local economy.\n\nThe total population of Orkney increased from 19,245 in 2001 to 21,349 at the time of the 2011 census.\n\nThis is a list of islands with an area greater than 15 hectares (approximately 37 acres). Records for the last date of settlement for the smaller uninhabited islands are incomplete, but all of the islands listed here would have been inhabited at some point during the Neolithic, Pictish or Norse periods. \n\n'Ward Hill' or a variant thereof is very common as the name of the highest point on the island. These locations are named after those high places used for the lighting of warning beacons. \n\nThe population of the tidal islet of Holm of Grimbister was not recorded by the 2001 census, although it was inhabited in 2010 and probably earlier. It did appear in the 2011 tables.\n\nThe population of Inner Holm in 2001 was one, although the figure was included in the total for Mainland at the time of the 2001 census.\n\nLamb Holm is \"included in the NRS statistical geography for inhabited islands but had no usual residents at the time of either the 2001 or 2011 censuses\". \n\nPapa Stronsay had usually resident population of 10 in 2001 but was apparently not permanently inhabited in 2011.\n\nThis is a continuing list of uninhabited smaller Orkney islands (many of which are called \"Holm\" from the Old Norse \"holmr\", meaning a small and rounded islet), tidal islets only separated at higher stages of the tide, or skerries which are only exposed at lower stages of the tide.\n\nIn the vicinity of:\n\nThe remote islets of Sule Skerry and Sule Stack, which lie west of the archipelago form part of Orkney for local government purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55063229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55063229", "title": "List of Protected Buildings in Sint Eustatius", "text": "List of Protected Buildings in Sint Eustatius\n\nSint Eustatius has 119 protected buildings.\n"}
{"id": "48126612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48126612", "title": "List of festivals in Oceania", "text": "List of festivals in Oceania\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of festivals in Oceania, with links to separate lists by country and region where applicable. This list includes festivals of diverse types, including regional festivals, commerce festivals, film festivals, folk festivals, carnivals, pow wows, recurring festivals on holidays, and music festivals. Note that list of music festivals in Oceania redirects here, with music festivals denoted with (music) for countries where there is not a dedicated music section. The list overlaps with list of film festivals in Oceania.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16563341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16563341", "title": "List of political and geographic subdivisions by total area in excess of 200,000 square kilometers", "text": "List of political and geographic subdivisions by total area in excess of 200,000 square kilometers\n"}
{"id": "266121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266121", "title": "List of railway stations", "text": "List of railway stations\n\nThe following is a list of railway stations (also known as railroad stations in the United States), which is indexed by country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee German railway station categories for more information.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See Ukrainian Railways\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22007985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22007985", "title": "List of songs about Berlin", "text": "List of songs about Berlin\n\nThis list of songs about Berlin is an addition to the main article Music in Berlin and contains any songs about or involving the city of Berlin, the capital of Germany.\nSorting is after the year of publication (in brackets).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39122686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39122686", "title": "Lists of films released by Disney", "text": "Lists of films released by Disney\n\nThe Walt Disney Company has released films from a wide array of existing, defunct, and divested company units including:\n\nThe Walt Disney Studios\nDisney–ABC Television Group\n"}
{"id": "34049806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34049806", "title": "Locata Corporation", "text": "Locata Corporation\n\nLocata Corporation is a privately held technology company headquartered in Canberra, Australia, with a fully owned subsidiary in Las Vegas, Nevada. Locata has invented a local positioning system that can either replace or augment Global Positioning System (GPS) signals when they are blocked, jammed or unreliable. Government, commercial and other organizations use Locata to determine accurate positioning as a local backup to GPS.\n\nDavid Small and Nunzio Gambale started work on the initial Locata concepts in 1994 and founded Locata as a company in 1997. As of December 2013, the company has been granted 122 patents around their positioning technology.\n\nA LocataNet is a ground-based local positioning system that provides positioning information which is indistinguishable from GPS to an appropriately configured receiver. The LocataNet achieves this without the satellites, atomic clocks or ground support structure required by traditional GPS satellite-based systems.\n\nTo create a LocataNet, LocataLite radio transceivers are deployed around a defined area. These devices collectively function like a grounded version of a GPS satellite constellation, transmitting radiolocation signals that Locata receivers use to generate a positioning solution, outputting latitude, longitude and altitude, using trilateration in the same way as a traditional GPS receiver. LocataLites can be designed to transmit at any practical frequency or power level. The first commercially deployed designs operate in the same ISM band as Wi-Fi, and each LocataLite generally covers an area of up to 10 kilometers in radius in open environments.\n\nLocataNets provide all of the Position, Navigation and Time (PNT) functions provided by a GPS satellite constellation, but in a local area, such as an open-cut mine, harbor, military range or other area. This allows operators to set up controlled positioning networks to locate, automate and direct objects with centimeter-level accuracy. Locata’s duplication of PNT is made possible by the company's patented nanosecond-accurate TimeLoc synchronization technology.\n\nThe VRay is an 80-element spherical antenna that provides precise positioning in dense urban environments and indoors where traditional GNSS receivers are susceptible to large multipath errors. By switching on each element for just over one microsecond, the VRay correlator design in a Locata receiver creates virtual beams which mitigate multipath effects by focusing on the direct received signal and filtering out multipath bounces. Because the VRay can sweep many beams simultaneously around an area it also determines the angle and strength of received signals and this information is used to derive the precise 3D attitude of the receiver platform as well.\n\nIn a partnership with the U.S. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT), the VRay is being developed for use with GPS receivers as part of a Co-operative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) signed in April 2013. AFIT will design and test several GPS-based variants of Locata-patented antenna and correlator technology to develop the VRay for military GPS use cases.\n\nHexagon, provider of design, measurement and visualization technologies, is the first company to integrate Locata's terrestrial technology within their Leica Geosystems subsidiary's GPS-GLONASS-Galileo-BeiDou receivers.\n\nLocata has been awarded a multi-year sole-source contract with the United States Air Force 746th Test Squadron (746 TS) to deploy a LocataNet and provide positioning information when GPS is jammed across a 2,500 square mile area of the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico. TMC Design, a certified Locata Technology Integrator (LTI) has been let the contract to design, integrate, install and test Locata’s Non-GPS Based Positioning System (NGBPS) at the White Sands Missile Range location.\n\nBefore the contract was granted, the USAF proved through independent testing that the LocataNet delivers accuracy of eight inches or less to aircraft up to 35 miles away. Locata's NGBPS system will provide the 746 TS with enhanced validation capabilities in GPS denied environments while operating mobile and airborne position, navigation and timing (PNT) equipment and navigation warfare (NAVWAR) systems.\n\nLocata is the core component for the USAF's Ultra High Accuracy Reference System (UHARS) which will be deployed at White Sands in 2014 to improve performance of military systems in GPS-denied environments. UHARS is described by the USAF as the new \"gold standard truth system for the increasingly demanding test and evaluation of future navigation and navigation warfare systems for the U.S. Department of Defense\".\n\nIn partnership with Leica Geosystems, the first commercial LocataNet is deployed at Newmont’s Boddington Gold Mine (BGM) in Western Australia. In this environment, Locata’s technology provides positioning for automation of mining machines as the pit gets deeper and traditional satellite-based GPS coverage becomes unreliable because fewer satellites are in view in the pit, particularly near the mine’s pit walls.\n\nThe Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS), in partnership with Perrone Robotics, in December 2013 completed the installation of phase 1 of a two-stage Locata network as the first portion of a $30 million upgrade to the Vehicle Research Center (VRC). Locata is the sole-source of positioning information for the precision robotics control required by the VRC for the U.S. testing of next-generation vehicle collision avoidance systems. As part of the upgrade, VRC researchers are installing new robotic and high-precision positioning technology for both their outdoor track and 300-by-700 foot indoor testing area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16278894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278894", "title": "Outline of Kenya", "text": "Outline of Kenya\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Kenya:\n\nKenya is a country in East Africa. The capital city is Nairobi, 2nd largest in Africa (after Cairo). Kenya spans an area about 85% the size of France or Texas. The population has grown rapidly in recent decades to roughly 38 million. Kenya has numerous wildlife reserves, containing thousands of animal species. The country is named after Mount Kenya, a significant landmark and the second among the highest mountain peaks of Africa, and both were originally usually pronounced in English, though the native pronunciation and the one intended by the original transcription \"Kenia\" was . During the presidency of Jomo Kenyatta in the 1960s, the current English pronunciation of became widespread because his name retained the native pronunciation. Before 1920, the area now known as Kenya was known as the British East Africa Protectorate and so there was no need to mention \"mount\" when referring to the mountain.\n\n\nGeography of Kenya\n\nEnvironment of Kenya\n\n\nRegions of Kenya\n\nList of ecoregions in Kenya\n\nAdministrative divisions of Kenya\n\nCounties of Kenya\nKenya is divided into 47 Counties\n\nList of cities in Kenya\nMajor towns:\n\nSome smaller towns:\n\nDemographics of Kenya\n\nPolitics of Kenya\n\nGovernment of Kenya\n\n\n\nCourt system of Kenya\n\nForeign relations of Kenya\n\nInternational organization membership of Kenya\nKenya is a member of:\nThe Republic of Kenya is a member of:\n\nLaw of Kenya\n\nMilitary of Kenya\n\nLocal government in Kenya\n\nHistory of Kenya\n\nCulture of Kenya\n\n\nSports in Kenya\n\nEconomy of Kenya\n\nEducation in Kenya\n\nHealth in Kenya\n\nKenya\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12172216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12172216", "title": "Pacific Environment", "text": "Pacific Environment\n\nPacific Environment is an environmental organization based in San Francisco, California, United States, founded in 1987. Its objective is to protect the living environment of the Pacific Rim.\n\nThe organization was founded 1987 as Pacific Energy and Resources Center. In 1991, Pacific Environment became the first international organization to bring widespread attention to the threats facing the Siberian taiga, beginning a long history of work in Russia. In 1993, a Pacific Environment campaign with Russian partners led to the creation of the Botchi Nature Reserve, protecting valuable forests in the Russian Far East that were to be logged by Weyerhaeuser Corporation. That same year, Pacific Environment worked with the Udege people in the Russian Far East to protect the three-million-acre (1.2-million-hectare) upper Bikin Watershed against logging by the Hyundai Corporation. This area is now a wildlife refuge.\n\nBy the mid-1990s, they began to focus on the linchpin financial role international institutions were playing in resource extraction in Russia and initiated a long-term effort to link grassroots environmentalists around the Pacific Rim to international policy decisions, particularly those of government-supported export credit agencies. Pacific Environment pioneered efforts to block the financing of destructive projects and improve others as one of the founding members of an international campaign to reform the social and environmental policies of export credit agencies, in a program dubbed ECA Watch. While Pacific Environment's biggest successes in the 1990s were in Russia, they also began to focus more broadly on the Pacific Rim.\n\nIn China, Pacific Environment took advantage of the growing opportunities to partner with that country's emerging environmental movement by helping dozens of local groups become more effective watchdogs of local government, especially through the media. They also assisted these groups in encouraging the Chinese government to review environmental impacts. Pacific Environment's partners at Greener Beijing utilized the internet to organize a campaign against consumption of turtle and tortoise species in the Hainan Province. After a government investigation prompted in part by the campaign, the Hainan Yang Sheng Tan Company halted its import of turtle and tortoise species after financial losses and public pressure. And in 2004, Chinese Premiere Wen Jiabao ordered officials to reconsider plans for a dam along the Nu River, after journalists and environmentalists teamed up to spotlight the issue.\n\nPacific Environment employs 16 employees located throughout the Pacific Rim with offices in San Francisco, California; Anchorage, Alaska; Washington DC; and Beijing, China. The reported operating budget for the 2011–2012 fiscal year was $2.4 million, with the majority of that coming from foundations. \n\nPacific Environment splits its activities between five main programs the Russia Program, China Program, Alaska Program, California Energy Program, and Responsible Finance Program.\n\nPacific Environment takes on specific challenges in key geographic areas throughout the Pacific Rim, and employs key international leverage points to bolster local campaigns. They engage in five major areas of focus outlined below.\n\nFor the past 20 years, Pacific Environment has partnered with Russian environmentalists to ensure the peoples in these regions have a voice in decisions that impact their environment, health and livelihoods. Pacific Environment works alongside Russian and international nonprofits to protect wild lands and wildlife, promote responsible fisheries management, and advocate environmental controls on oil, gas and minerals development.\n\nPacific Environment’s Russia Program has five key campaigns:\n\nPacific Environment enhances the Chinese environmental movement by:\n\nPacific Environment’s Alaska Program partners with native, fishing, environmental, and scientific communities to confront cultural and environmental threats to Alaska and the surrounding waters. These partnerships focus on safeguarding critical habitats, including the world's largest salmon run, the feeding grounds of the endangered northeastern Pacific right whale, old-growth seafloor habitat, and areas essential to community subsistence. The three key campaign goals are:\n\nPacific Environment's California energy program works to maintain California's commitment to clean energy and reducing greenhouse gases by:\n\nPacific Environment’s Responsible Finance Campaign promotes environmentally and socially sustainable policies and practices among public and private finance institutions with interests and projects in less wealthy countries. With a principal focus on the extractive sector (oil, gas, mining, and forestry) operating on the Pacific Rim, Pacific Environment works to persuade these lending institutions to be more open, accountable, and responsive to citizens’ concerns, particularly in project-affected communities.\n\nThe international campaign to reform the policies and practices of public and private banks has expanded its focus to include multilateral development banks, export credit agencies, and large private international banks. After a decade of campaigning, a basic environmental policy framework is now in place for each of the three classes of institutions. However, proper implementation of these policies has become a vexing challenge especially in countries like Japan, where banks are playing an increasingly proactive role in fulfilling national security goals to obtain extractive and energy resources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34287763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34287763", "title": "Pierre Duval (geographer)", "text": "Pierre Duval (geographer)\n\nPierre Duval (1618–1683) was a French geographer.\n\nPierre Duval was born in Abbeville. He was the nephew and pupil of the geographer Nicolas Sanson. Encouraged by Louis XIV to move to Paris, he later became Geographe Ordinaire du Roy.\n"}
{"id": "24606792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24606792", "title": "SEBAL", "text": "SEBAL\n\nThe Surface Energy Balance Algorithm for Land (SEBAL) uses the surface energy balance to estimate aspects of the hydrological cycle. SEBAL maps evapotranspiration, biomass growth, water deficit and soil moisture. Its main creator is Prof. Dr. W.G.M. Bastiaanssen \n\nThe basis of SEBAL is the energy balance: the energy driving the hydrological cycle is equal to the incoming energy minus:\n\n\nSEBAL quantifies the energy balance using satellite data as an input. Land surface characteristics such as surface albedo, leaf area index, vegetation index and surface temperature are derived from satellite imagery. In addition to satellite images, the SEBAL model requires meteorological data, such as wind speed, humidity, solar radiation and air temperature. It uses meteorological data from the moment of the recording of the satellite data to solve the 'instantaneous' energy balance, and uses extrapolation to calculate daily evapotranspiration. Using a time series of satellite and meteorological data, periodic cumulative (e.g. weekly, monthly, yearly) evapotranspiration data can be calculated.\n\nThe SEBAL model uses the energy balance, as opposed to in hydrology common water balance to solve for evapotranspiration.\n\nThe energy balance applies to all scales, ranging from global to river basin to region to farm and to field level. Satellite images come in a wide variety of spatial and temporal resolutions. Evapotranspiration and biomass production are key indicators for water management and irrigation performance.\n\nThe combination of the energy balance with input from remote sensing data is applied by farmers, irrigation districts, catchment management agencies and regional and national governments.\n"}
{"id": "2201810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2201810", "title": "Scott Polar Research Institute", "text": "Scott Polar Research Institute\n\nThe Scott Polar Research Institute (SPRI) is a centre for research into the polar regions and glaciology worldwide. It is a sub-department of the Department of Geography in the University of Cambridge, located on Lensfield Road in the south of Cambridge ().\n\nSPRI was founded by Frank Debenham in 1920 as the national memorial to Captain Robert Falcon Scott and his companions, who died on their return journey from the South Pole in 1912. It investigates issues relevant to the Arctic and Antarctic in the environmental sciences, social sciences and humanities. The institute has some 60 personnel, consisting of academic, library and support staff plus postgraduate students, associates and fellows attached to research programmes.\n\nThe institute also hosts the Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research, and is part of the NERC Centre for Polar Observation and Modelling.\n\nThe Grade II listed main building (1933–34) is by Sir Herbert Baker. The small halls have shallow domed ceilings painted with the aspect of the globe from north and south poles, by MacDonald Gill.\nThe Scott Polar Research Institute houses the world's most comprehensive polar library and archives. The Institute's Thomas H. Manning Archive contains an unparalleled collection of manuscript material relating to the polar regions, research and exploration. For scientists and scholars, the library offers a collection developed since the 1920s covering all subjects relating to the Arctic, the Antarctic, and to ice and snow wherever found. For industry, it is a prime information source on such subjects as exploration and exploitation of natural resources and on the environmental implications of such activities in the polar regions; on the design of ice-strengthened shipping and selection of sea routes; and on problems of construction and transportation in cold environments. The library also offers an unrivalled resource for the needs of international relations and strategic defence.\n\nThe Picture Library contains a photograph collection from both the Arctic and Antarctic, mainly depicting the history of exploration in the polar regions, including much material from the expeditions of Scott and Shackleton. Its Thomas H. Manning Polar Archives are named in honour of the British-Canadian Arctic researcher, a university alumnus. Its work includes an oral history programme which interviews people who have worked in the polar regions over the years. Due to high demand, the Polar Archives runs a booking scheme for anyone wishing to consult material. \n\nThe most recent addition to the library is the Shackleton Memorial Library, which in 1999 won a regional award from the Royal Institute of British Architects. This part of the building holds much of the library's Antarctic collection, as well as some of its subject-based material.\n\nThe library is part of the Inspire Libraries scheme and is open to anyone with a polar interest to use for reference work and research.\n\nSPRI operates the Polar Museum, which presents a range of objects, artworks, documents and photographs from the Institute's extensive polar collections. The collections include material related to polar history, exploration, science, art and Arctic cultures.\n\nIn 2010 the renovated Polar Museum opened its doors to the public; the reopening was met with widespread acclaim and the museum was shortlisted for the Art Fund's Museum of the Year prize in 2011. The museum welcomed 52,392 visitors in 2017. It contains displays of Arctic art and artefacts, material from the nineteenth century search for the Northwest Passage, the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration (including the last letters of Captain Scott) and contemporary research and policy relating to the polar regions.\n\nImportant material cared for by the Scott Polar Research Institute and on display in the Polar Museum includes:\n\nThe wide ranging collections include art and photographic works by several notable artists and photographers, including:\n\nThe Institute is actively adding to its collection of contemporary polar art through its artist in residence scheme, managed by the Friends of SPRI, which enables an artist to travel to the Antarctic and the Arctic each year.\n\nAs well as permanent exhibits, the museum regularly hosts special exhibitions. The museum is open Tuesdays to Saturdays, 10:00 – 16:00, and admission is free.\n\nThe museum is one of the eight museums and botanic garden which make up the University of Cambridge Museums consortium.\n\nSPRI has several research groups.\n\nThis group's work involves quantifying the state of the cryosphere using remote sensing by satellites, plus accurate field measurements and computer simulations, to understand the processes in detail. In particular, the group has been able to observe the melting of the Larsen Ice Shelf, the rapid retreat of ice in western Antarctica, and increased summer melting in northern Canada. This work has contributed greatly to understanding climate change.\n\nThis group's work focuses on the dynamics of ice-sheets and delivery of sediment to the marine environment. The group uses geophysical and geological evidence gathered by icebreakers in the polar seas.\n\nThis group's work focuses on the processes which modify the polar and sub-polar environments, such as Arctic vegetation, and snow and ice cover. Improving techniques for measuring vegetation from satellite data is an important part of the work.\n\nThis is an interdisciplinary group covering the anthropology, history and art of the Arctic. Its work includes looking at politics and environmental management in the polar regions, with particular expertise in the religion, culture and politics of the Russian North.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56124322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56124322", "title": "Somsar Sri Ramakrishna Seva Mandir", "text": "Somsar Sri Ramakrishna Seva Mandir\n\nSomsar Sri Ramakrishna Seva Mandir is a temple erected to commemorate the birthplace and the humanitarian activities spearheaded by Srimat Swami Bhuteshanandaji, the 12th President of Belur Math. Srimat Swami Bhuteshanandaji was born in Somsar Village and when he grew older he started his spiritual journey eventually culminated in becoming a monk and serving the needs of the poor via Ramakrishna Math and Mission and its numerable religious and charitable activities.\n\nThe temple was officially inaugurated in 18 December 2015. It has a spacious prayer hall that can accommodate a minimum 200 devotees at a time. As of now, Somsar Sri Ramakrishna Seva Mandir is involved in various religious, education and social work activities.\n"}
{"id": "4037204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4037204", "title": "Sovetskaya (lake)", "text": "Sovetskaya (lake)\n\nSovetskaya Lake is a liquid subglacial lake found buried under the Antarctic ice sheet, below Sovetskaya Research Station. It covers about .\n\n"}
{"id": "27152239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27152239", "title": "Telephone numbers in Libya", "text": "Telephone numbers in Libya\n\nCountry Code: +218<br>\nInternational Call Prefix: 0945777241<br>\nTrunk Prefix: \n\nTo call in Libya, the following format is used:\n\nxxx xxxx Calls within an area code\n\nyyy xxx xxxx Calls inside Libya in city centers\n\n+218 yyy xxx xxxx Calls from outside Libya\n\n+218 9n xxx xxxx Calls to mobiles from outside Libya\n\n"}
{"id": "5133790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5133790", "title": "Toni Hagen", "text": "Toni Hagen\n\nToni Hagen (17 August 1917 in Luzern – 18 April 2003 in Lenzerheide) was a Swiss geologist and a pioneer of Swiss development assistance. \n\nAfter taking a diploma in engineering and geology from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, he took a doctorate in the geology of the Welsh mountains and then became a research assistant at the Zurich Geological Institute. \n\nHagen first visited Nepal in 1950 with a first Swiss development assistance mission. In 1952 he was employed by the government of Nepal and also worked for the United Nations. He explored the geography of that Himalayan state. \n\nDr. Hagen was the first foreigner to trek throughout Nepal during geological and geographic survey work and mapping on behalf of the United Nations. He clocked over 14,000 km walking several times across Nepal, where the topography is mostly hilly to snow-covered. He filmed Nepalese cultural and ethnic diversity originally as produced as a silent documentary, and later with an English narration in his own voice. Dr. Hagen is also the author of several books including a book entitled \"Nepal\" (; LCCN 99937099) \n\nFrom 1966 to 1971, as adviser to the UN's Development Program, he was given a special mission in crisis-hit areas worldwide including Africa, the Middle East and Asia. Hagen was a pioneer in the field of development aid, undertaking missions to the Himalayas, eastern Africa and South America in a career spanning over 60 years.\n\nAfter Tibet was taken over by China in 1959, Hagen used his influence to help the Tibetan refugees. During the next years he gained Dalai Lama's confidence. He managed to bring approximately 1,000–1,500 Tibetans to Switzerland. \n\nHagen retired from the UN in 1972, worked as a freelance adviser for organisations involved in foreign aid and later returned to the Federal Institute of Technology at Zurich where he lectured on the problems of the developing world. In the early 1980s he established the Toni Hagen Foundation in Switzerland and Nepal to promote democratic reforms and better understanding between different ethnic groups in Nepal.\n\nIn 1999 Dr. Toni Hagen filmed a story of his life, \"The Ring of the Buddha\" (German title: \"Der Ring des Buddha\"), which also included some original materials from the 1960s. Soon after the film was shown, he died in early 2003 at the age of 85 in his home in Lucerne on Good Friday, three days after his wife, Gertrud in Lenzerheide.\n"}
{"id": "43835636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43835636", "title": "Wa States", "text": "Wa States\n\nThe Wa States was the name formerly given to the Wa Land, the natural and historical region inhabited mainly by the Wa people, an ethnic group speaking an Austroasiatic language. The region is located to the northeast of the Shan States of British Burma, in the area of present-day Shan State of northern Burma (Myanmar) and the western zone of Pu'er Prefecture, Yunnan, China.\n\nPractically the whole Wa region is rugged mountainous territory with steep hills and deep valleys. There were no urban areas. A section of the historical Wa territory was included in the state of Manglon, one of the Shan States. Sir James George Scott visited the Wa States around the turn of the century and wrote about the place, taking pictures of the people and the houses of the area as well. Considered a distant and inaccessible border area by former empires, the British census of 1901 did not include the Wa States, so statistics regarding a population over 50,000 in 1911 are estimates. \n\nThe oral tradition of the Wa people claims that their territory had been much larger in the distant past, an assertion that is confirmed both by Shan and Yunnan Chinese sources. The Wa also regard their ancestral territory as being at the centre of the inhabited world. Nowadays part of the area of the former Wa States is included in Wa State, an unrecognised state within Burma.\n\nThere are no historical records on the Wa States before the 19th century. Northern Thai legends claim that before the advent of Buddhism the Lanna territory was founded by nine Wa clans. According to Wa oral tradition the area where they live, with the Nam Hka flowing across it, as well as the areas further to the south between the Mekong and the Salween down to Chiang Mai, had been their ancestral territory since time immemorial. This view is supported by remains of fortified towns on the hills now covered by jungle, as well as by the traditions of the Shan, according to which the territory of Kengtung State further to the south had formerly belonged to the Wa people who were displaced around 1229 and were later defeated by King Mangrai.\n\nAround Kengtung there are dispersed groups related to the Wa, such as the Tai Loi, En, Piying and Hsen Hsum, living in small villages, likely remnants of the former Wa population. The Vingngun (Pakkatè, Shan: \"Wiang Ngoen\") historical area of the Wa —where silver was said to have been worked— was included in the Wa States.\nBy the 18th century, during Qing Dynasty rule in China, the Wa area became separated from the tribal military control of the Dai people.\n\nIn the 19th century the British government considered the region a remote territory and did not administer the Wa States. The only Wa territory administered by the British was the State of Manglon, which was ruled by a Wa \"saopha\" and was populated mostly by Wa in the region that lay east of the Salween. The border with China was left undefined and the area was left alone, officially belonging neither to China nor to Great Britain. Consequently, the Wa States were never fully incorporated into British Burma.\n\nThe population of the Wa States included other ethnic groups such as the Tai Yai, Lisu and Kachin people. There were also enclaves of Lahu at Mongkha and Lao Shan in Mongshaw within Wa territory. \n\nThe inhabitants of the Wa States were traditionally animistic. But by the 19th century a minority of the Wa had been influenced by the Buddhist doctrine of the neighbouring Shan people, although mostly only superficially. The Wa who abandoned their traditional animistic ways became known as the 'Tame Wa'.\n\nIn the late 19th century the Wa ruler of Son Mu welcomed the Panthay, a community of persecuted Hui Muslims that had fled across the Nam Ting to settle in his territory. Initially the relations between the Muslim settlers and the Wa were good, for the Panthays had gained at Pan Long a safe base for their commercial operations out of reach from their Chinese persecutors. \nThe Wa, on the other hand, expected to gain from the trade that the Muslims they had sheltered would generate in their new mountain abode. However, neither side trusted the other, and it was the more sophisticated Panthays who eventually profited most from the assistance they had been given. They carried out their commerce on mule caravans across the mountains, becoming skilled muleteers and seeing their trade in the Burma-Yunnan frontier region flourish. Sir Hugh Daly, British superintendent of the Northern Shan States, described the Panthay colony at Pan Long as 'powerful' during a visit to the Wa States in 1891. At that time there were between 300 and 400 houses in the place and it had become the largest settlement of Chinese Muslim expatriates in the region. The community owed its growth to a high birthrate and the intermarriage with women of Chinese and Shan descent. Daly also commented that the Panthay muleteers were well-armed.\n\nIn the first fifty years of their presence in Wa territory the Hui Muslim settlers had gradually extended their influence from their base at Panlon over their Wa neighbours. Panlon became the most powerful community in the Wa States and this growth in power and prestige allowed the Panthay settlement to enjoy a great measure of autonomy. According to Sir George Scott most of the Panthays were Sunni Muslims of the Hanafi school of thought that traced their roots to Dali, Menghua, Baishan, Fengqing and Yuxian, and were all merchants, mule-owners and \"Men of substance\". They used both Chinese and Arabic names and were the \"de facto\" upholders of the law in the unadministered Wa State. By the early 20th century the Panthays had increased their economic and military control in the area to such an extent that the relations between the Muslim settlers and their Wa hosts turned sour. \n\nFinally in 1926 the tensions erupted into the local \"Wa-Panthay War\" in which the Panthays at Pan Long would boast to a group of British visitors that \"... neither the Chinese nor the British mean anything to us. It is we who rule here.\" The war lasted throughout 1926 and 1926 and eventually the less organized Wa were defeated by the Muslim traders.\n\nDespite their victory the Panthay population of the Wa States declined from 1,517 (1,076 males and 441 females) in 1921 to 1,106 (685 males and 421 females) according to the 1931 Census of India. The reason was that the dominance of the Muslim Panthays in the trade of the Wa frontier region had begun to wane. Barely a decade after the Wa-Panthay War the construction of the Burma Road between Lashio and Kunming in 1937–38 further set back the traditional mule caravan trade in which the Hui Muslim settlers had specialized. Finally the exodus of thousands of Yunnanese refugees and Kuomintang troops following the Chinese Communist Revolution in 1949 brought a flood of predominantly non-Muslim Han Chinese, but almost no Huis, to the area of the Wa States and Shan State. In the wake of these developments many Panthays left the Wa territories and chose to migrate to Northern Thailand, where they became part of the community known as Chin Haw.\n\nChristian missionaries went into the Wa region in the early 20th century, reaching first the Burmese and later also the Chinese areas of Wa territory. William Young, from Nebraska, studied in depth the Wa language and was instrumental in putting it into writing using a script based on the Latin alphabet. The first publication in the Wa language, a compilation of Wa hymns, was printed in 1933.\n\nIn the 1940s, during the Chinese Civil War, remnants of the Chinese National Revolutionary Army retreated to territory within Burma as the People's Liberation Army took over mainland China. Some troops remained in the area east of the Salween river, where in later years Wa insurgent groups controlled the region with the support of the Communist Party of Burma. The Wa States were officially merged into the Shan State in post-independent Burma, but the administration of the Burmese government was not reaching the Wa region and the Shan nationalist armed groups left the area alone as well.\n\nSome towns experienced a modern administration for the first time during local communist rule. Throughout that period opium cultivation and drug trafficking increased and the ancient Wa traditional life became disrupted. However, for the first time in history an administrative system that collected revenue and maintained a significant armed force, as well as a rudimentary infrastructure, ushered the Wa region into the modern era.\n\nThere were many historical Wa states, but there is hardly any information about them; some of the 'states' were little more than small villages and their surrounding territory. Usually these villages were roughly fortified and were built on hilltops or slopes. Occasionally these small states formed confederations, but since the vision of the Wa was restricted to their immediate surroundings, these alliances were neither far-reaching nor long-lasting.\n\nA great number of the communities living in the mountain villages had difficulties regarding water supply. The Wa used to build ponds to collect water and a system of bamboo pipes that brought water from the surrounding hills.\n\nThe saopha of Mang Lon was a Buddhist Wa. Besides Manglon, five Wa States were known to be ruled by \"saophas\" who adopted some of the manners of the rulers of the Shan States and were assisted by \"amafs\" or ministers in the various departments:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4553161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4553161", "title": "Western Guinean lowland forests", "text": "Western Guinean lowland forests\n\nThe Western Guinean lowland forests are a tropical moist broadleaf forest ecoregion of West Africa. The ecoregion includes the lowland forests extending from the Atlantic Ocean a few hundred kilometers inland, and from western Côte d'Ivoire across Liberia, southeastern Guinea, most of Sierra Leone, and into southwest Guinea. \n\nThe Sassandra River of Côte d'Ivoire separates the Western Guinean forests from the Eastern Guinean forests which lie to the east. Inland and to the west, the Western Guinean forests transition to the Guinean forest-savanna mosaic, and to the Guinean montane forests at higher elevations.\n\nThe Western Guinean forests, together with the other tropical moist forests of West Africa, is included within Conservation International's Guinean Forests of West Africa biodiversity hotspot.\n\n\n"}
