{"id": "8247411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8247411", "title": "A616 road", "text": "A616 road\n\nThe A616 is a road that links Newark-on-Trent, Nottinghamshire, to the M1 motorway at Junction 30, then reappears at Junction 35A and goes on to Huddersfield, West Yorkshire.\n\nThe road originally ran continuously from Newark to Huddersfield, via Sheffield city centre. The section of route between the M1 Junction 30 and Sheffield was re-numbered A6135, and the route north-west of Sheffield largely renumbered the A6102.\n\nSimilar to the A57, this section of the road is used to connect traffic heading to and from West and South Yorkshire with routes for the A1 to the south-east. The advantages of the A616 are that it is less well known than the A57 as a through-route and does not pass through large centres of population.\n\nIt starts in the south at the busy roundabout with the A617 and A46 (Newark bypass), known as the Cattle Market Island. This is the third position of its southern terminus. When the A1 ran through Newark, before July 1964, it met the A1 further towards Newark Castle railway station, by continuing from its present route down Debdale Hill then through Kelham, where it met the A617, and along the present-day A617 near what is the present-day Trent Valley Way. After the A1 bypass was built, the A1 through Newark became the A6065, and the former A616 became an unclassified road from Toll Bar Farm to Kelham, and the A617 from Kelham to Newark. The A616 then followed a former unclassified road to South Muskham, where it met the A6065. When the Newark Bypass was built in 1989, the A6065 was removed and the A616 extended from South Muskham to Newark along the former A6065.\nThe former A1 into Newark from the roundabout is the B6326. For just under two miles it follows the former A1 north to South Muskham, passing a large British Sugar sugar beet processing plant on the right. This is now one of the main sugar beet factories left, as many in the region have closed. It runs parallel to the East Coast Main Line, which can be seen to the east. On the former Great North Road, it passes over a causeway built in 1770 by John Smeaton. At Muskham Bridge it crosses the River Trent. At South Muskham the road leaves to the west with the northern former A1 continuing as the B6325. It passes through Little Carlton, part of South Muskham parish. It climbs Debdale Hill and meets a road from Kelham, to the left. It passes Debdale Hill Farm as \"Ollerton Road\". Over the brow of the hill, it enters Caunton parish, where the road has been straightened, leaving lay-bys on both sides of the road. It passes Dean Hall Farm and there is a crossroads for Knapthorpe to the left and Caunton to the right. There is a left turn for Maplebeck near Beesthorpe Hall, and a right turn from Caunton.\n\nIt passes Lodge Farm and Caunton Common Farm. On the parish boundary between Kneesall and Kersall, there is a crossroads for Kersall to the left and Laxton and Norwell to the right, near Kersall Lodge. It passes Buckshaw Farm, then a straightened bend with a layby on the right, and then through Kneesall, passing the church of St Bartholomew and the \"Angel Inn\". It is crossed by a 400 kV pylon line and passes through the small village of Ompton. It climbs Grimston Hill, entering the parish of Wellow. It passes through Wellow, meeting a road from the left from Eakring, and passing the \"Durham Ox\". There is an angled crossroads for Rufford (and the Sherwood Castle Holiday Forest) to the left and New Ollerton to the right, and the road passes of a former railway. It enters Ollerton, crossing a railway. There is a roundabout with the A6075, to the left for New Ollerton, with which the road overlaps for a half-mile to the west. The B6461 is to the left, and the road crosses the River Maun. There is a roundabout at Sherwood Heath with the north-south A614 and the A6075 to the south-west for Thoresby Colliery and Edwinstowe, at which there is the \"Shell Ollerton\" garage, a fish and chip restaurant, and the Texaco \"Ollerton Star Service Station\".\n\nIt passes through what is Sherwood Forest at Bilhaugh in Edwinstowe parish, and meets \"Swincote Road\" (B6034) to the left, from Edwinstowe, and overlaps with the road. In Perlethorpe cum Budby, it passes through Budby as \"Worksop Road\" and crosses the River Meden to the west of Thoresby Lake. At Budby North Forest the A6034 leaves to the right (the north), and slightly further north is a crossroads with \"Netherfield lane\". At Hazel Gap the road continues due west and is crossed by the Robin Hood Way near Hazel Gap Farm in the parish of Norton. The road enters Bassetlaw and passes along the northern edge of Gleadthorpe Breck Plantation and Hatfield Plantation, north of Welbeck Colliery. There is a right turn for Norton and the road meets the north-south A60 at Cuckney, where the A632 leaves for Bolsover to the south-west. In the village the road passes the \"Greendale Oak\". It leaves to the west as \"Creswell Road\", crossing the River Poulter.\nIt passes Woodend Farm and there is a crossroads for Whaley and Holbeck. The road enters Derbyshire and the district of Bolsover, south of Creswell. Entering the (former mining) village of Creswell it meets the B6042 to the right, for Creswell Crags, a limestone gorge. There is a left turn for \"Elmton Road\", for the model village. There is a height indicator across the road with dangling chains for the approaching railway bridge which has a height of 4.1 metres. Towards Clowne the road follows to the north of a disused railway, and passes the Creswell Campus of Chesterfield College, before crossroads, for Elmton to the left. Entering Clowne there is a crossroads where it is crossed by the Archaeological Way. It passes the JET \"Woodall Garage\", and meets the B6418 from the left and the terminus of the A618, \"Rotherham Road\" for Killamarsh, to the right. It leaves as \"Barlborough Road\", passing through New Barlsborough. The road used to pass through Barlborough, but now passes to the south. The Crown Carveries \"De Rodes Arms\" is on the former roundabout with the A619. It leaves the former route to the left at a roundabout, and there is a roundabout for the Dobbies garden centre and Barlborough Links Golf Club, and another for the Barlborough Links retail park and a large Tesco distribution centre on Barlborough Common. There is a roundabout with the earlier route around Barlborough, where it meets the east-west A619. At this roundabout is the Ibis Chesterfield North hotel and the \"Treble Bob\" pub-restaurant. Continuing the earlier diversion around Barlborough, built at the time of the M1 in 1967, it meets the M1 at junction 30, where it continues into Sheffield as the A6135. The route was renumbered when junction 35A of the M1 was built.\n\nThe northern section resumes at the end of the slip roads of junction 35A of the M1 at Tankersley, at a roundabout for Warren and a business park. To the north is Tankersley Hall, which featured in the film \"Kes\". At this point it is the boundary between the boroughs of Sheffield (to the south), and Barnsley (to the north), with the road in the borough of Barnsley. To the right is a turn off for Tankersley Park golf club. It skirts the north of New Biggin Plantation and Westwood Country Park, and is crossed by the Barnsley Boundary Walk, and the Trans Pennine Trail. At Upper Tankersley there is a busy roundabout with \"Westwood New Road\" (A61) at the Shell \"Wentworth Park Service Station\", and to the north is the Wentworth Industrial Park. There is a Premier Inn on the right, next door to one of Britain's seven Taybarns pubs. From here the Sheffield-Barnsley boundary follows the A61 southwards to the A629 junction. It crosses the Storrs Dike near Bromley. It skirts the south of Copley Wood, and at Wortley meets the A629 at a grade separated junction – one of two junctions of this type along the road. \"Woodhead Road\", for Wadsley Bridge, also joins from the south. Near Gosling Moor Farm, it is crossed by the Trans Pennine Trail and a former railway.\nIt crosses the River Don where it enters the borough of Sheffield. There is a grade-separated junction with the A6102, for Sheffield and the former route, which is the eastern end of the Stocksbridge bypass. The former route through Stocksbridge is the B6088. It passes along the northern edge of Stocksbridge on an escarpment overlooking the town. A 400 kV pylon line follows the road. The road, a downgraded M67, is a 2+1 road. This is not adequate for the quantity of traffic it carries, and would have been originally designed as a dual-carriageway as it is a well-engineered road. It passes Wellhouse Farm and is crossed by \"Pearoyd Lane\", where it overlooks the former steelworks to the south. It passes Cote House Farm, and meets the former route, the B6088, from the left which is the western end of the Stocksbridge bypass, and the end of the upgraded section from the M1. At this point the road re-enters the borough of Barnsley, and the Sheffield-Barnsley boundary follows the southern edge of the road all the way to Langsett.\nUnderbank Reservoir is to the south, and Sheephouse Wood is to the north, with the entrance to Fox Wire on the right. At Midhopestones there is a crossroads, with the left turn for the \"Ye Olde Mustard Pot\" pub. The road follows the valley of the Little Don River, where it is followed by the Barnsley Boundary Walk. At Langsett there is a left turn for Upper Midhope, and a right turn, and passes the \"Bank View Cafe\". To the south is Langsett Reservoir and the road skirts the eastern edge of Crookland Wood. It meets the A628 at the \"Flouch Roundabout\". Traffic for Manchester from the M1 follows the A628 to the west – the Woodhead Pass. To the north, the road is untrunked all the way to Huddersfield, and passes the \"Flouch Hotel\" next to the former mini-roundabout with the A628.\nIt continues as the straight \"Whams Road\" across Thurlstone Moors, passing through Hazlehead, in Dunford, where it is crossed by the former Woodhead Line, next to the former Hazlehead Bridge railway station. The Woodhead Tunnel begins around two miles to the west at Dunford Bridge. The Woodhead Line is now the Trans Pennine Trail. From Langsett to the TPT bridge, the A616 is the boundary of the Peak District National Park. It crosses the River Don, and there are crossroads with the B6106. At Crow Edge, it passes the Hepworth pipe works, now owned by Wavin (a Dutch company), and the \"Prince of Wales Hotel\" on the right. At Victoria there are crossroads at the \"Victoria Inn\", where the road enters Kirklees, and West Yorkshire. The road becomes more twisty, and passes through Hepworth and Scholes, where it is crossed by the Kirklees Way.\n\nIt crosses the A635 at New Mill. It passes through Thongsbridge and meets the Holme Valley at Brockholes as \"New Mill Road\", and passes Brockholes railway station, and the Esso \"Midlothian Garage\" and the JET \"Johnsted Garage\". There is a crossroads, with the left turn for Honley and the right turn for Honley railway station and Honley High School. It meets the A6024 from the left and as \"Huddersfield Road\" passes the Texaco \"Alpine Service Station\", then becomes \"Woodhead Road\". Entering Huddersfield, there is a crossroads with the left for \"Armitage Road\" (B6110 for Meltham) and the right for Berry Brow and its railway station. It passes under the Penistone Line and becomes \"Bridge Street\", where it crosses the River Holme, meeting \"Meltham Road\" (B6108). As \"Lockwood Road\" it passes the \"Yorkshire Victoria\", and meets \"St Thomas Road\" (B6432) then as \"Folly Hall\" crosses the River Colne, and meets \"Colne Road\" (B6432) from the right. As \"Chapel Hill\" it meets \"Manchester Road\" (A62) from the left, where it terminates on the A62 Huddersfield ring road.\n\nThe bypass was opened in May 1988 and is a road that links the M1 motorway at Junction 35A (and J36) to the Woodhead Pass (one of the main trans-Pennine roads from Sheffield to Manchester) bypassing the towns of Stocksbridge and Deepcar. It has been said that the Stocksbridge bypass was originally planned to be part of the M67 motorway.\n\nThe speed limit on the A616 is enforced using a digital speed camera system called SPECS, which calculates the average speed of a vehicle over the distance travelled between two cameras using automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) technology. This set of speed cameras is thought by locals not to be in current use, but nonetheless acts as a strong deterrent against speeding. There are frequent head-on collisions on the bypass.\n\nThere are several ghost stories attached to the Stocksbridge Bypass, including reputed apparitions of a monk and phantom children during the road's construction. These claims were featured in a 1994 episode of the paranormal documentary series \"Strange but True?\", hosted by Michael Aspel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18327611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18327611", "title": "Adam Bielański", "text": "Adam Bielański\n\nAdam Bielański (14 December 1912 – 4 September 2016) was a Polish chemist and professor of Jagiellonian University. He was a member of the Polish Academy of Science. He was the author of several university-level books on inorganic chemistry, many of which are standard textbooks for students at most universities in Poland.\n\nBielański was born in Kraków, at the time part of Austria-Hungary. His brother Władysław (1911–1982) was a professor of biology, as was his sister, Zofia Bielańska-Osuchowska. He turned 100 years old in December 2012 and died in 2016 at the age of 103.\n"}
{"id": "1339356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1339356", "title": "African manatee", "text": "African manatee\n\nThe African manatee (\"Trichechus senegalensis\"), also known as the West African manatee or sea cow, is a species of manatee that is mostly herbivorous. African manatees inhabit much of the western region of Africa – from Senegal to Angola. Although scientists do not know a great deal about this species, they hypothesize that the African manatee is very similar to the West Indian manatee (\"Trichechus manatus\").\n\nThe African manatee was officially declared a species under the \"Trichechus senegalensis\" taxon in 1795 by naturalist Johann Heinrich Friedrich Link. No subspecies of this taxon are known. Although African manatees live in both coastal areas and isolated inland areas, genetic evidence suggests no significant differences between the two populations. The African manatee falls under the genus \"Trichechus\" with only two other species, the Amazonian manatee and the West Indian manatee, which are also sirenians.\n\nAfrican manatees can be found in West African regions: Angola, Benin, Cameroon, Chad, the Republic of the Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo. Manatees are found in brackish waters to freshwater: in oceans, rivers, lakes, coastal estuaries, reservoirs, lagoons, and bays on the coast. African manatees rarely inhabit waters with a temperature below \n\nManatees have been found as far as offshore, where there are shallow coastal flats and calm mangrove creeks filled with seagrass. Inland lakes where manatees dwell include Lake Volta, the Inner Niger River Delta in Mali, Lake Léré, and Lake de Tréné. Due to fluctuating flow rates and water levels in rivers, some of these permanent lakes serve as refuges for manatees in connecting rivers during the dry season. From north to south, the river systems that contain manatees include: the Senegal, Saloum, Gambia, Casamance, Cacheu, Mansôa, Geba, Buba, Tombali, Cacine, Kogon, Kondoure, Sierra Leone, Great Scarcies, Little Scarcies, Sherbro, Malem, Waanje, Sewa, Missunado, Cavalla, St. Paul, Morro, St. John, Bandama, Niouniourou, Sassandra, Comoé, Bia, Tano, Volta, Mono, Oueme, Niger, Mekrou, Benue, Cross, Katsena Ala, Bani, Akwayafe, Rio del Rey, Ngosso, Andokat, Mene, Munaya, Wouri, Sanaga, Faro, Chari, Bamaingui, Bahr-Kieta, Logoné, Mitémélé, Gabon, Ogoué, Lovanzi, Kouilou, Congo, Dande, Bengo, and Cuanza. Manatees move up these rivers until they are unable to proceed because of shallow waters or strong waterfalls.\n\nThe areas with the highest manatee populations are Guinea-Bissau, the lagoons of Côte d'Ivoire, the southern portions of the Niger River in Nigeria, the Sanaga River in Cameroon, the coastal lagoons in Gabon, and the lower parts of the Congo River. As part of a study completed in Côte d'Ivoire to assess where the majority of African manatees favor living, a sample of African manatees was radio-tagged and tracked. The tracking observed most of the sample in coastal lagoons, mangroves, and other herbaceous growths. They were also found in the grassy estuaries of big rivers with mangroves and in protected coastal spots with less than of water containing both mangroves and marine macrophytes.\n\nManatees are herbivores; however, they also eat clams, mollusks, and fish found in nets. The percentage of the diet that is composed of non-plant material varies based on location . With manatees living off the coast having a lifetime average of 50% non-plant material . The West African manatee is the only Sirenian that seems to intentionally consume non-plant material. A majority of the African manatee's diet is made up of a variety of flora found above or hanging over the water. African manatees that inhabit rivers mostly eat the overhanging plants growing on the river banks. The diet of African manatees living in estuaries consists solely of mangrove trees. Each day, the African manatee eats about four to nine percent of its body weight in wet vegetation. Microorganisms within the African manatee's large intestine, which measures up to in length, aid it in digesting the large quantity and variety of vegetation that it consumes daily.\n\nThe African manatee's body is widest at the middle, and its tail resembles a paddle. The manatee is gray in color with small, colorless hairs that cover its body. However, algae and other tiny organisms often grow on an African manatee's body, so its body sometimes appears brown or greenish in color. Calves are darker in color when they are very young. African manatees measure up to in length, and weigh about . African manatees are typically extremely slow, moving between 4.8 km and 8.0 km (3 and 5 mi) per hour, although when scared by predators they can travel at speeds of about per hour. The African manatee's large forelimbs, or flippers, are used to paddle and to bring food to the its mouth. Vegetation is then chewed by the manatee's strong molars, which are its only teeth. When the manatee is born, each jaw has two vestigial incisors, which the manatee loses as it matures. If the African manatee's molars happen to fall out, new molars grow in their place. The manatee's flippers, which have nails, are also used to graze other manatees. The African manatee does not have any hind limbs. From the exterior, the African manatee looks very similar to the American manatee; however, the African manatee is different from the Amazonian manatee, which has characteristic white markings on its abdomen.\n\nThe West African manatee is a descendant of trichechids found in coastal South America during the Pliocene Epoch. Although they tend to stay in freshwater, theory suggests that, through transoceanic currents, the species reached West Africa during the late Pliocene. The West African manatee's appearance is thought to be the result of these currents and species movement. The African manatee's ancestors passed down advantageous migration and food traits. The African manatee is not restricted to a certain area, and does not have to rely heavily on only one ecosystem for support. This evolution of the African manatee's diversity may be part of its key attribute to survival. They are more diverse than other manatees due to their ability to survive in salt water, although they do need access to fresh water for drinking purposes.\n\nAccording to people of western Africa, \"Maame\" \"Water\" (also spelled \"Mami Wata\"), a recurring character in many coastal legends, is a goddess of the sea and a symbol of wealth and beauty. \"Maame\" \"Water\" also flips over canoes and entices their occupants to visit her kingdom. Scientists from the Institute of Aquatic Biology of the Centre for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and the Wildlife Department in Ghana have concluded that \"Maame\" \"Water\" is not a sea goddess, but actually the West African manatee. According to Dr. Mamaa Entsua-Mensah, who performs research for CSIR, when female African manatees surface for air, they resemble goddesses. Entsua-Mensah explains that the female manatee's breasts create the illusion of a woman-fish.\n\nAmong the Serer people of Senegal, the Gambia and Mauritania, the manatee is regarded as sacred and highly respected, because in the Serer creation myth, it is viewed as the guardian of the secrets of the future.\n\nThe African manatee is nocturnal. They tend to travel silently, eat, and be active towards the end of the day and during the nighttime. During the daytime, the African manatee dozes in shallow (1 to 2 meter deep) water. In countries such as Sierra Leone, African manatees migrate upstream when flooding occurs in June and July. This flooding can lower the availability of food for the manatees as well as lower the salinity of waterways. African manatees live in groups of 1 to 6. They have very few natural predators, two of which are sharks and crocodiles. They are also very social, spending a majority of their day bonding by touch, verbal communication, and smell. This creates a deep bond between them. When it is time to migrate due to a weather change, manatees will travel in larger groups to find warmer water and food.\n\nThe sex of an individual African manatee can only be determined by close examination of the manatee's underside. The only visible distinction between males and females is the genital openings. However, males tend to be smaller than females. Some female African manatees are sexually mature as young as 3 years of age, and they give birth every 3 to 5 years of their estimated 30-year lifespan. Males take a longer time to mature (about 9 to 10 years) and can rarely fertilize an egg at the age of 2 or 3 years. African manatees breed year-round. When males and females mate, it is not monogamous; multiple males will usually mate with one female. When the opportunity to mate with a female is at stake, males will fight with each other by pushing and shoving. Female African manatees give birth to one calf at a time after about a 13-month pregnancy. Calves can swim on their own at birth. Although the African manatee's social organization is not well understood, research shows the most common and tightly knit bonds are between a mother and her calf.\n\nThe African manatee is a vulnerable species because of its meat, oil, bones, and skin, which can bring great wealth to poachers. Specifically they are used to make walking sticks and toy spinning tops. In some countries, such as Nigeria and Cameroon, African manatees are sold to zoos, aquariums, online as pets, and they are sometimes shipped internationally. Anyone visiting such countries will notice manatee meat being sold on the streets and in marketplaces, but the lack of law enforcement protects the poachers from punishment. Residents of countries such as Mali and Chad depend on the oil of the African manatee to cure ailments such as ear infections, rheumatism, and skin conditions.\n\nThere are even more threats to the African manatees' habitat and life: urban and agricultural development, increased damming, and increased use of hydroelectric power in the rivers of countries like Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana. The building of dams has lead to genetic isolation of some populations. There is little data to show if this has any negative long-term effects on the population as a whole. At several hydroelectric dams including the Kanji dam on the Niger River and the Akosombo dam on the Volta River manatees have been caught and killed in the turbines and intake valves. Thick congestion of boats in waterways may cause the manatees to have deadly run-ins with the vessels. However, even natural occurrences, such as droughts and tidal changes, can often strand manatees in unsuitable habitats. Some are killed accidentally by fishing trawls and in nets which are intended for catching sharks.\n\nSome behaviors of African manatees provoke humans to hunt them. When manatees become tangled in fishing nets, they can damage them. People in countries such as Sierra Leone believe that killing the manatees to reduce the species size lowers the chances of the fishing nets requiring expensive repairs. In addition, African manatees can destroy rice crops by drifting into fields during the rainy season.\n\nMany of the African manatees that venture up the Niger River starve to death. At certain times each year, the Niger River dries up due to the hot temperatures and lack of rain. Many manatees migrate there during the rainy season. When the water dries up the manatees are unable to get to other bodies of water.\n\nFrom November 2004 until December 2007, the West African Manatee Conservation Project completed Phase I. During this phase, residents of six African countries (Mauritania, Senegal, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, and Sierra Leone) created a database of previously unknown information about the species (such as population, economic value, and habitat range) by conducting surveys in their countries. Other African countries also contributed reports that broadened the collective knowledge of the African manatee. Because of the work done during this phase, the general public, young children, and experienced scientists alike are receiving better information than ever before as to how to protect the African manatees. Phase I also allowed for up-close examination of the African manatee's way of life through field work.\n\nDue to the large-scale success of Phase I, a Phase II is to be enacted by Wetlands International. During Phase II, the information collected in Phase I will be even more widely distributed around the areas in which the African manatee lives. Phase II will focus on furthering the existing research and adjusting legislation and education.\n\nAccording to Appendix II of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), the African manatee is endangered. CITES states that trade in any species on the list, including the African manatee, is to be carefully monitored and terminated. Laws exist to protect the African manatee in every country in which it lives, but these laws are not well enforced. Due to this mass lack of enforcement and minimal education, the African manatee population is being steadily depleted.\n"}
{"id": "34451279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34451279", "title": "Allan Thomson (geologist)", "text": "Allan Thomson (geologist)\n\nJames Allan Thomson (27 July 1881 – 6 May 1928) was a New Zealand geologist, scientific administrator and museum director. \n\nHe was born in Dunedin, New Zealand, in 1881, where his father was a science teacher at Otago Boys' High School. He graduated from Otago University in 1904, the same year as Sir Peter Buck. Selected as New Zealand's first Rhodes Scholar, he studied geology, played rugby, rowed and ran at St John's College, Oxford. \n\nAfter doing geology in Australia, he was appointed palaeontologist with the New Zealand Geological Survey in 1911 and then succeeded Augustus Hamilton as director of the Dominion Museum (now Te Papa) in 1914. \n\nHe was accepted as a geologist on Robert Falcon Scott's Terra Nova Expedition to Antarctica, but he developed pulmonary tuberculosis and was forced to withdraw. The tuberculosis continued to trouble him and his health declined.\n\nHe was president of the Royal Society of New Zealand for a short time before his death in 1928; he was preceded by Bernard Cracroft Aston, who also stepped in after his death until the appointment of Clinton Coleridge Farr.\n\nHis daughter Margaret became a noted film director.\n\n"}
{"id": "37575487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37575487", "title": "Aquiherbosa", "text": "Aquiherbosa\n\nAn aquiherbosa is a plant community of herbaceous plants that exists in abundantly wet areas. This can refer to plant communities in wetlands, ponds, or other bodies of water.\n"}
{"id": "49496204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49496204", "title": "Atomic engineering", "text": "Atomic engineering\n\nThe term \"Atomic engineering\" appears to have been first used in 1946 by Theodore von Kármán, where he wrote:\n\nAtomic power, which, today, is generally considered to be in the discipline of nuclear engineering, is an example of what he had in mind.\n\nAtomic engineering may be a superset of nuclear engineering, due to the historical usage of terms like Atoms for Peace , International Atomic Energy Agency, 'atomic engineer', etc..\nAn inclusive definition is: \"exploiting the atomic characters of matter for engineering applications.\" For example, an atomic clock and potential applications of ultra-cold atom belong to atomic engineering. The atomic character could be the atomic spin (e.g. in Nuclear magnetic resonance and quantum computing applications), atomic position (e.g. Optical lattice), atomic mass (e.g. atomic power), etc.\n\nThe creation of the atomic bomb by Julius Robert Oppenheimer, the \"Father of the atomic bomb\", is based on atomic engineering. Oppenheimer was a university professor and physicist at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nRichard Feynman, in his famous 1959 lecture \"There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom\" on the trend of miniaturization, envisioned:\n\nMost practices of nanotechnology and materials science today have foci distinct from Feynman's ultimate vision of manipulating individual atomic position and spin, which may be better described by \"Atomic engineering\", that addresses characteristic length scales from 1 femtometer (the atomic nucleus size) to 1 nanometer (about 5 atoms across in linear dimension). Coherent quantum control of individual atomic defect like the Nitrogen-vacancy center, and the eventual \"3D atom printing\" (\"2D atom printing\" was realized in 1990 by IBM using a scanning tunnelling microscope), fit Feynman's ultimate vision.\n"}
{"id": "43284488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43284488", "title": "Change (philosophy)", "text": "Change (philosophy)\n\nChange refers to a difference in a state of affairs at different points in time. Although it is a familiar experience, an analysis of change provides subtle problems which have occupied philosophers since the Presocratics. Heraclitus is the first philosopher known to have directly raised such issues, with aphorisms such as \"one cannot step into the same river twice\". The Eleatics were particularly concerned with change and raised a number of problems, including Zeno's paradoxes, which caused them to go as far as insisting that change was impossible, and that reality was one and unchanging. Later philosophers would reject this conclusion, instead developing systems such as atomism in attempts to circumvent the Eleatic problems. In the modern era, some of these problems would enter the domain of mathematics, with the development of calculus and analysis. These developments were regarded by some as solving problems of change, but others maintain that philosophical issues persist.\n\nThe Chinese philosophy of change was described in centuries of commentary on the \"I Ching\", the Book of Changes.\n\nHeraclitus is the first philosopher for whom there exists an extant written account of an enquiry into change. Writing in an aphoristic and esoteric style, Heraclitus remarked that, \"On those stepping into rivers staying the same other and other waters flow\". Or, more popularly: \"One cannot step into the same river twice.\" This is generally taken to refer to the seeming contradiction between our calling a river \"the same\", while knowing that the material constituents of a river, the \"waters\", have completely changed. (A later follower amended the final word in the saying from \"twice\" to \"once\".)\n\nIt is unclear what reaction Heraclitus intends to induce by this statement, and he provides no exposition. It is however but one of many examples of a more general theme which Heraclitus termed the \"unity of opposites\" - the fact that opposing predicates could be asserted of the same thing, another example being, \"the road up and the road down is one and the same\".\n\nChange was one of the chief concerns of the Eleatic school of thought founded by Parmenides. Parmenides considered non-existence to be absurd, and thus asserted that it was impossible for something to come into existence out of nothing, or for something to pass out of existence into nothing. By \"something\", he was referring not just to material, but to any general predicate; rejecting, for instance, changes of colour, as they involved the new colour arising from nothing and the old colour passing into nothing. He therefore rejected all change as impossible, and claimed that reality was an undifferentiated and unchanging whole.\n\nThese ideas were taken up by various followers of Parmenides, most notably Melissus and Zeno, who provided additional arguments, specifically for the impossibility of motion. Melissus claimed that reality was \"full\" (nonexistence being impossible), and that therefore nothing could move. Zeno gave a series of arguments which were particularly influential. Among the simplest was his observation that to move from A to B, one must first reach the halfway point between A and B; but then in order to do this, one must get halfway from A to this halfway point; and so on. Thus all motion involves an infinite number of steps, which Zeno held to be impossible. A similar argument involved a footrace between Achilles and a tortoise. The tortoise is given a headstart. Achilles quickly reaches the point where the tortoise stood, but by this time the tortoise has moved on a little, so Achilles must now reach this new point, and so on. A different argument involved the flight of an arrow. Zeno observed that if one considers a single moment of time, the arrow is not moving in that moment. He then claimed it was impossible that an arrow in motion could arise as the result of a sequence of motionless arrows.\n\nThe atomism of Democritus and Leucippus can be seen as a response to the Eleatic denial of change. The atomists conceded that something coming from or becoming nothing was impossible, but only with respect to material substance, not to general qualities. They hypothesised that every visible object was in fact a composite of unseen indivisible particles of different shapes and sizes. These particles were held to be eternal and unchanging, but by rearranging themselves, the composite objects which they formed could come into and go out of being. These composite objects and their properties were not taken as truly real; in the words of Democritus, \"by convention sweet, by convention bitter; by convention hot, by convention cold; by convention colour: but in reality atoms and void.\" Any perceived change in an object's properties was therefore illusory and not susceptible to the objections of Parmenides.\n\nAnaxagoras provided a similar response, but instead of atoms, he hypothesised a number of eternal, primal \"ingredients\" which were mixed together in a continuum. No material object was made of a pure ingredient; rather, it had its material character due to a preponderance of various ingredients over every other. In this way, Anaxagoras could assert that nowhere did any ingredient ever fully come into or go out of being.\n\n"}
{"id": "6038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6038", "title": "Chemical engineering", "text": "Chemical engineering\n\nChemical engineering is a branch of engineering that uses principles of chemistry, physics, mathematics, and economics to efficiently use, produce, transform, and transport chemicals, materials, and energy. A chemical engineer designs large-scale processes that convert chemicals, raw materials, living cells, microorganisms, and energy into useful forms and products.\n\nChemical engineers are involved in many aspects of plant design and operation, including safety and hazard assessments, process design and analysis, control engineering, chemical reaction engineering, construction specification, and operating instructions.\n\nA 1996 \"British Journal for the History of Science\" article cites James F. Donnelly for mentioning an 1839 reference to chemical engineering in relation to the production of sulfuric acid. In the same paper however, George E. Davis, an English consultant, was credited for having coined the term. Davis also tried to found a \"Society of Chemical Engineering\", but instead it was named the Society of Chemical Industry (1881), with Davis as its first Secretary. The \"History of Science in United States: An Encyclopedia\" puts the use of the term around 1890. \"Chemical engineering\", describing the use of mechanical equipment in the chemical industry, became common vocabulary in England after 1850. By 1910, the profession, \"chemical engineer,\" was already in common use in Britain and the United States.\n\nChemical engineering emerged upon the development of unit operations, a fundamental concept of the discipline of chemical engineering. Most authors agree that Davis invented the concept of unit operations if not substantially developed it. He gave a series of lectures on unit operations at the Manchester Technical School (later part of the University of Manchester) in 1887, considered to be one of the earliest such about chemical engineering. Three years before Davis' lectures, Henry Edward Armstrong taught a degree course in chemical engineering at the City and Guilds of London Institute. Armstrong's course failed simply because its graduates ... were not especially attractive to employers. Employers of the time would have rather hired chemists and mechanical engineers. Courses in chemical engineering offered by Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the United States, Owens College in Manchester, England, and University College London suffered under similar circumstances.\n\nStarting from 1888, Lewis M. Norton taught at MIT the first chemical engineering course in the United States. Norton's course was contemporaneous and essentially similar to Armstrong's course. Both courses, however, simply merged chemistry and engineering subjects along with product design. \"Its practitioners had difficulty convincing engineers that they were engineers and chemists that they were not simply chemists.\" Unit operations was introduced into the course by William Hultz Walker in 1905. By the early 1920s, unit operations became an important aspect of chemical engineering at MIT and other US universities, as well as at Imperial College London. The American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE), established in 1908, played a key role in making chemical engineering considered an independent science, and unit operations central to chemical engineering. For instance, it defined chemical engineering to be a \"science of itself, the basis of which is ... unit operations\" in a 1922 report; and with which principle, it had published a list of academic institutions which offered \"satisfactory\" chemical engineering courses. Meanwhile, promoting chemical engineering as a distinct science in Britain lead to the establishment of the Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE) in 1922. IChemE likewise helped make unit operations considered essential to the discipline.\n\nBy the 1940s, it became clear that unit operations alone were insufficient in developing chemical reactors. While the predominance of unit operations in chemical engineering courses in Britain and the United States continued until the 1960s, transport phenomena started to experience greater focus. Along with other novel concepts, such as process systems engineering (PSE), a \"second paradigm\" was defined. Transport phenomena gave an analytical approach to chemical engineering while PSE focused on its synthetic elements, such as control system and process design. Developments in chemical engineering before and after World War II were mainly incited by the petrochemical industry, however, advances in other fields were made as well. Advancements in biochemical engineering in the 1940s, for example, found application in the pharmaceutical industry, and allowed for the mass production of various antibiotics, including penicillin and streptomycin. Meanwhile, progress in polymer science in the 1950s paved way for the \"age of plastics\".\n\nConcerns regarding the safety and environmental impact of large-scale chemical manufacturing facilities were also raised during this period. \"Silent Spring\", published in 1962, alerted its readers to the harmful effects of DDT, a potent insecticide. The 1974 Flixborough disaster in the United Kingdom resulted in 28 deaths, as well as damage to a chemical plant and three nearby villages. The 1984 Bhopal disaster in India resulted in almost 4,000 deaths. These incidents, along with other incidents, affected the reputation of the trade as industrial safety and environmental protection were given more focus. In response, the IChemE required safety to be part of every degree course that it accredited after 1982. By the 1970s, legislation and monitoring agencies were instituted in various countries, such as France, Germany, and the United States.\n\nAdvancements in computer science found applications designing and managing plants, simplifying calculations and drawings that previously had to be done manually. The completion of the Human Genome Project is also seen as a major development, not only advancing chemical engineering but genetic engineering and genomics as well. Chemical engineering principles were used to produce DNA sequences in large quantities.\n\nChemical engineering involves the application of several principles. Key concepts are presented below.\n\nChemical engineering design concerns the creation of plans, specification, and economic analyses for pilot plants, new plants or plant modifications. Design engineers often work in a consulting role, designing plants to meet clients' needs. Design is limited by a number of factors, including funding, government regulations and safety standards. These constraints dictate a plant's choice of process, materials and equipment.\n\nPlant construction is coordinated by project engineers and project managers depending on the size of the investment. A chemical engineer may do the job of project engineer full-time or part of the time, which requires additional training and job skills or act as a consultant to the project group. In the USA the education of chemical engineering graduates from the Baccalaureate programs accredited by ABET do not usually stress project engineering education, which can be obtained by specialized training, as electives, or from graduate programs. Project engineering jobs are some of the largest employers for chemical engineers.\n\nA unit operation is a physical step in an individual chemical engineering process. Unit operations (such as crystallization, filtration, drying and evaporation) are used to prepare reactants, purifying and separating its products, recycling unspent reactants, and controlling energy transfer in reactors. On the other hand, a unit process is the chemical equivalent of a unit operation. Along with unit operations, unit processes constitute a process operation. Unit processes (such as nitration and oxidation) involve the conversion of material by biochemical, thermochemical and other means. Chemical engineers responsible for these are called process engineers.\n\nProcess design requires the definition of equipment types and sizes as well as how they are connected together and the materials of construction. Details are often printed on a Process Flow Diagram which is used to control the capacity and reliability of a new or modified chemical factory.\n\nEducation for chemical engineers in the first college degree 3 or 4 years of study stresses the principles and practices of process design. The same skills are used in existing chemical plants to evaluate the efficiency and make recommendations for improvements.\n\nModeling and analysis of transport phenomena is essential for many industrial applications. Transport phenomena involve fluid dynamics, heat transfer and mass transfer, which are governed mainly by momentum transfer, energy transfer and transport of chemical species respectively. Models often involve separate considerations for macroscopic, microscopic and molecular level phenomena. Modeling of transport phenomena therefore requires an understanding of applied mathematics.\n\nChemical engineers \"develop economic ways of using materials and energy\". Chemical engineers use chemistry and engineering to turn raw materials into usable products, such as medicine, petrochemicals and plastics on a large-scale, industrial setting. They are also involved in waste management and research. Both applied and research facets could make extensive use of computers.\n\nChemical engineers may be involved in industry or university research where they are tasked with designing and performing experiments to create better and safer methods for production, pollution control, and resource conservation. They may be involved in designing and constructing plants as a project engineer. Chemical engineers serving as project engineers use their knowledge in selecting optimal production methods and plant equipment to minimize costs and maximize safety and profitability. After plant construction, chemical engineering project managers may be involved in equipment upgrades, process changes, troubleshooting, and daily operations in either full-time or consulting roles. \n\n"}
{"id": "9447823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9447823", "title": "Cosmonova", "text": "Cosmonova\n\nCosmonova is an IMAX venue in Swedish Museum of Natural History, Sweden. The cinema is also the largest planetarium in Sweden.\n"}
{"id": "21245943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21245943", "title": "Death ray", "text": "Death ray\n\nThe death ray or death beam was a wave electric power weapon allegedly invented during the 1920s and 1930s. Guglielmo Marconi, Nikola Tesla, Harry Grindell Matthews, Edwin R. Scott, Graichen and others claimed to have invented it independently. In 1957, the National Inventors Council was still issuing lists of needed military inventions that included a death ray.\n\nWhile based in fiction, research into energy-based weapons inspired by past speculation has contributed to real-life weapons in use by modern militaries sometimes called a sort of \"death ray\", such as the United States Navy and its Laser Weapon System (LaWS) deployed in mid-2014. Such armaments are technically known as directed-energy weapons .\n\nIn the year 1923, Edwin R. Scott, an inventor from San Francisco, claimed he was the first to develop a death ray that would destroy human life and bring down planes at a distance. He was born in Detroit, and he claimed he worked for nine years as a student and protégé of Charles P. Steinmetz.\nHarry Grindell-Matthews tried to sell what he reported to be a death ray to the British Air Ministry in 1924. He was never able to show a functioning model or demonstrate it to the military.\n\nNikola Tesla claimed to have invented a \"death beam\" which he called teleforce in the 1930s and continued the claims up until his death. \nTesla explained that \"this invention of mine does not contemplate the use of any so-called 'death rays'. Rays are not applicable because they cannot be produced in requisite quantities and diminish rapidly in intensity with distance. All the energy of New York City (approximately two million horsepower) transformed into rays and projected twenty miles, could not kill a human being, because, according to a well known law of physics, it would disperse to such an extent as to be ineffectual. My apparatus projects particles which may be relatively large or of microscopic dimensions, enabling us to convey to a small area at a great distance trillions of times more energy than is possible with rays of any kind. Many thousands of horsepower can thus be transmitted by a stream thinner than a hair, so that nothing can resist.\" Tesla proposed that a nation could \"destroy anything approaching within 200 miles ... [and] will provide a wall of power\" in order to \"make any country, large or small, impregnable against armies, airplanes, and other means for attack\". He claimed that he worked on the project since about 1900.He claimed to have drawn power from the ionosphere, which he called \"An invisibe ball of energy surrounding Earth.\" He had done this with the help of a 50-foot tesla coil.\n\nAntonio Longoria in 1934 claimed to have a death ray that could kill pigeons from four miles away and could kill a mouse enclosed in a \"thick walled metal chamber\".\n\nDuring World War II, the Germans had at least two projects, and the Japanese one, to create so called death rays. One German project led by Ernst Schiebold concerned a particle accelerator with a steerable bundle of beryllium rods running through the vertical axis. The other was developed by Dr Rolf Widerøe and is referred to in his biography. The machine developed by Widerøe was in the Dresden Plasma Physics laboratory in February 1945 when the city was bombed. Widerøe led a team in March 1945 to remove the device from the ruined laboratory and deliver it to General Patton's 3rd Army at Burggrub where it was taken into US custody on 14 April 1945. The Japanese weapon was called Death ray \"Ku-Go\" which aimed to employ microwaves created in a large magnetron.\n\nAlthough the concept of a death ray was never put into action, it fueled science fiction stories and led to the science fiction concept of the handheld raygun used by fictional characters such as Flash Gordon. In Alfred Noyes' 1940 novel \"The Last Man\" (US title: \"No Other Man\"), a death ray developed by a German scientist named Mardok is unleashed in a global war and almost wipes out the human race. Similar weapons are found in George Lucas' science fiction saga \"Star Wars\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30736979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30736979", "title": "Environmental revolution", "text": "Environmental revolution\n\nThe environmental revolution is the ongoing process of switching from pollution-causing and climate-changing technology to efficient and clean technology.\n\nThe environmental revolution follows other technological revolutions such as the Industrial Revolution and the Digital Revolution.\n\nThe environmental movement has its roots in the 19th century. Robert Underwood Johnson and John Muir founded the Sierra Club in 1892 after successfully lobbying Congress to create Yosemite National Park.\n\nThe modern environmental movement began in the mid-to-late 1960s. Environmental problems had been illustrated in books such as Silent Spring and there was a back-to-the-land movement, closely associated with the Hippie movement and Counterculture.\n\nBy the 1990s, the need for green technology was realized, and the development of electric cars and alternative energy gradually began to become mainstream. In the first decades of the 21st century, significant progress has been made. The first new electric cars were released to the public in 2010, and environmentalism has gone from being fringe to being completely mainstream, even embraced by conservative institutions such as the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nMany environmentally friendly technologies, such as electric cars, solar power, geothermal energy, wind power, vertical farming, recycling, permaculture, hydroponics, energy-efficient technology such as fluorescent lighting and LEDs and high-speed rail have been implemented or have become mainstream in Western nations since 1980. Developing nations have also embraced these technologies, and China has become the world's leading manufacturer of wind turbines and solar-electric panels in the 21st century.\n\n"}
{"id": "44581891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44581891", "title": "Eye movement in scene viewing", "text": "Eye movement in scene viewing\n\nEye movement in scene viewing refers to the visual processing of information presented in scenes. This phenomenon has been studied in a range of areas such as cognitive psychology and psychophysics, where eye movement can be monitored under experimental conditions. A core aspect in these studies is the division of eye movements into saccades, the rapid movement of the eyes, and fixations, the focus of the eyes on a point. There are several factors which influence eye movement in scene viewing, both the task and knowledge of the viewer (top-down factors), and the properties of the image being viewed (bottom-up factors). The study of eye movement in scene viewing helps to understand visual processing in more natural environments.\n\nTypically, when presented with a scene, viewers demonstrate short fixation durations and long saccade amplitudes in the earlier phases of viewing an image, representing ambient processing. This is followed by longer fixations and shorter saccades in the latter phases of scene viewing, representing focal processing (Pannasch et al., 2008).\n\nEye movement behaviour in scene viewing differs between different levels of cognitive development. Fixation durations shorten and saccade amplitudes lengthen with the increase in age. In children, the development of saccades to the amplitude normally found in adults have occur earlier (4–6 years old) than the development of fixation durations (6–8 years old). Yet, the typical pattern of behaviour during scene viewing, when progressing from ambient processing to focal processing, has been observed to occur from the age of 2 years old (Helo, Pannasch, Sirri & Rämä, 2014).\n\nThere are particular factors which affect where eye movements fixate upon, these include bottom-up factors inherent to the stimulus, and top-down factors inherent to the viewer. Even an initial glimpse of a scene has been found to generate an abstract representation of the image that can be stored in memory for use in subsequent eye movements (Castelhano & Henderson, 2007).\n\nIn bottom-up factors, eye guidance can be affected by the local contrast or salience of features in an image (Itti & Koch, 2000). An example of this would be an area with a large difference in luminance (Parkhurst et al., 2002), a greater density of edges (Mannan, Ruddock & Wooding, 1996) or binocular disparity determining the distance of different objects on the scene (Jansen et al., 2009).\n\nThe top-down factors of scenes have more of an impact than bottom-up features in affecting fixation positions. Behaviourally relevant information that are more interesting in a scene is more salient than low-level features, drawing fixations more frequently and more quickly from scene onset (Onat, Açik, Schumann & König, 2014). Local scene colour in a fixation position has an influence on where fixations occur. The presence of colour can increase the likelihood of the item being processed as a semantic object as it can aid the discrimination of the object, making it more interesting to view (Amano & Foster, 2014). When viewers are semantically primed by being presented with consistently similar scenes, the density of fixations increase, and fixation durations decrease (Henderson, Weeks Jr., & Hollingworth, 1999).\n\nInformation separate to what is presented in a scene also has an effect on the area being fixated upon. Eye movements can be guided anticipatorily by linguistic input, where if an item in the scene is presented verbally, the listener will be more likely to move their visual focus to that object (Staub, Abott & Bogartz, 2012).\nWith regard to factors relating to viewers rather than the scene, differences have been found in cross-cultural research. Westerners have an inclination to concentrate on focal objects in a scene, where they look at focal objects more often and quicker in comparison to East Asians who attend more to contextual information, where they make more saccades to the background of the scene (Chua, Boland & Nisbett, 2002).\n\nRegarding the temporality of fixations, average fixation durations last for 300ms on average, although there is a large variability around this approximation. Some of this variability can be explained through global properties of an image, impacting upon both bottom-up processing and top-down processing.\n\nDuring natural scene viewing, the masking of an image by replacing it with a grey field during fixations has an increase in fixation durations (Henderson & Pierce, 2008). More subtle degradations of an image on fixation durations, such as the decrease in luminance of an image during fixations, also increases the length of fixation durations (Henderson, Nuthmann & Luke, 2013). An asymmetric effect is shown where the increase of luminance also increases fixation durations (Walshe & Nuthmann, 2014). However, the change in factors affecting top-down processing, such as blurring or phase noise, increases fixation durations when used to degrade a scene and decreases fixation durations when used to enhance a scene (Henderson, Olejarczyk, Luke & Schmidt, 2014; Einhäuser et al., 2006).\n\nFurthermore, temporal and spatial aspects interact in a complex manner. When a picture is first presented on the screen, fixations made within the first second are more likely to be directed toward the left side of the scene, whereas the opposite holds true for the remaining part of the presentation (Ossandón et al., 2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "46593443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46593443", "title": "Field, power, and root-power quantities", "text": "Field, power, and root-power quantities\n\nA power quantity is a power or a quantity directly proportional to power, e.g., energy density, acoustic intensity, and luminous intensity. Energy quantities may also be labelled as power quantities in this context.\n\nA root-power quantity is a quantity such as voltage, current, sound pressure, electric field strength, speed, or charge density, the square of which, in linear systems, is proportional to power. The term \"root-power quantity\" was introduced in the ; it replaces and deprecates the term field quantity.\n\nIt is essential to know which category a measurement belongs to when using decibels (dB) for comparing the levels of such quantities. A change of one bel in the level corresponds to a 10× change in \"power\", so when comparing power quantities \"x\" and \"y\", the difference is defined to be 10×log(\"y\"/\"x\") decibel. With root-power quantities, however the difference is defined as 20×log(\"y\"/\"x\") dB. In linear systems, these definitions allow the distinction between root-power quantities and power quantities to be ignored when specifying changes as levels: an amplifier can be described as having \"3 dB\" of gain without needing to specify whether voltage or power are being compared; for a given linear load (e.g. an speaker), such an increase will result in a 3 dB increase in both the sound pressure level and the sound power level at a given location near the speaker. Conversely, when ratios cannot be identified as either power or root-power quantities, the units neper (Np) and decibel (dB) cannot be sensibly used.\n\nIn the analysis of signals and systems using sinusoids, field quantities and root-power quantities may be complex-valued.\n\nIn justifying the deprecation of the term \"field quantity\" and instead using \"root-power quantity\" in the context of levels, ISO 80000 draws attention to the conflicting use of the former term to mean a quantity that depends on the position, which in physics is called a \"field\". Such a field is often called a \"field quantity\" in the literature, but is called a \"field\" here for clarity. Several types of field (such as the electromagnetic field) meet the definition of a root-power quantity, whereas others (such as the Poynting vector and temperature) do not. Conversely, not every root-power quantity is a field (such as the voltage on a loudspeaker).\n\n"}
{"id": "1355994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1355994", "title": "Fixture unit", "text": "Fixture unit\n\nIn plumbing, a Fixture Unit (FU) is 'a unit of measure, based on the rate of discharge, time of operation and frequency of use of a fixture, that expresses the hydraulic load imposed by that fixture on the sanitary plumbing installation.' A Fixture Unit is not a flow rate unit but a design factor. A fixture unit is equal to one cubic foot of water drained in an 1 1/4 pipe over one minute . One cubic foot of water is roughly 7.48 gallons ( 6.25 Imperial Gallons). A Fixture Unit is used in plumbing design for both water supply and waste water.\n\nDifferent fixtures have different flow requirements. In order to determine the required size of pipe, an arbitrary unit is used for pipe sizing which takes into account the likelihood that all the fixtures will not be used at the same time. This is called \"fixture unit\" (FU). The relationship between gallons per minute (gpm) and fixture unit is not constant, but varies with the number of fixture units. For example, 1000 FU is equivalent to 220 gpm, but 2000 FU is not double that, but is only 1.5 times as much, or 330 gpm.\n\nFixture unit values can be determined using charts from the International Plumbing Code or similar codes in local jurisdictions.\n\nThere are situations where a design provides for more FUs being discharged than being supplied. This occurs in situations where liquids may infiltrate or are added to a draining system, such as might happen in a large sports venue. Examples of how this could occur include rain water infiltration.\n"}
{"id": "39335050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39335050", "title": "Force Concept Inventory", "text": "Force Concept Inventory\n\nThe Force Concept Inventory is a test measuring mastery of concepts commonly taught in a first semester of physics developed by Hestenes, Halloun, Wells, and Swackhamer (1985). It was the first such \"concept inventory\" and several others have been developed since for a variety of topics. The FCI was designed to assess student understanding of the Newtonian concepts of force. Hestenes (1998) found that while \"nearly 80% of the [students completing introductory college physics courses] could state Newton's Third Law at the beginning of the course. FCI data showed that less than 15% of them fully understood it at the end\". These results have been replicated in a number of studies involving students at a range of institutions (see sources section below), and have led to greater recognition in the physics education research community of the importance of students' \"active engagement\" with the materials to be mastered.\n\nThe FCI shows a gender difference in favor of males that has been the subject of some research in regard to gender equity in education. Men score on average about 10% higher.\n"}
{"id": "13695042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13695042", "title": "Fringe (TV series)", "text": "Fringe (TV series)\n\nFringe is an American science fiction television series created by J. J. Abrams, Alex Kurtzman, and Roberto Orci. It premiered on the Fox network on September 9, 2008, and concluded on January 18, 2013, after five seasons and 100 episodes. The series follows Olivia Dunham (Anna Torv), Peter Bishop (Joshua Jackson), and Walter Bishop (John Noble), all members of the fictional Fringe Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, based in Boston, Massachusetts, under the supervision of Homeland Security. The team uses fringe science and FBI investigative techniques to investigate a series of unexplained, often ghastly occurrences, which are related to mysteries surrounding a parallel universe.\n\nThe series has been described as a hybrid of fantasy, procedural dramas and serials, influenced by film and television shows such as \"Lost\", \"The X-Files\", \"Altered States\", and \"The Twilight Zone\". The series began as a traditional mystery-of-the-week series and became more serialized in later seasons. Most episodes contain a standalone plot, with several others also exploring the series' overarching mythology.\n\nCritical reception was at first lukewarm but became more favorable after the first season, when the series began to explore its mythology, including parallel universes and alternate timelines. The show, as well as the cast and crew, were nominated for many major awards. Despite its move to the \"Friday night death slot\" and low ratings, the series developed a cult following. It also spawned two six-part comic book series, an alternate reality game, and three novels.\n\n\"Fringe\" follows the casework of the Fringe Division, a Joint Federal Task Force supported primarily by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which includes Agent Olivia Dunham; Dr. Walter Bishop, the archetypal mad scientist; and Peter Bishop, Walter's estranged son and jack-of-all-trades. They are supported by Phillip Broyles (Lance Reddick), the force's director, and Agent Astrid Farnsworth (Jasika Nicole), who assists Walter in laboratory research. The Fringe Division investigates cases relating to fringe science, ranging from transhumanist experiments gone wrong to the prospect of a destructive technological singularity to a possible collision of two parallel universes. The Fringe Division's work often intersects with advanced biotechnology developed by a company called Massive Dynamic, founded by Walter's former partner, Dr. William Bell (Leonard Nimoy), and run by their common friend, Nina Sharp (Blair Brown). The team is also watched silently by a group of bald, pale men who are called \"Observers\".\n\nSeason 1 introduces the Fringe Division as they investigate cases that form \"the Pattern\" geographically centered around Reiden Lake in New York state, many of which are orchestrated by an international network of rogue scientists known as ZFT (\"Zerstörung durch Fortschritte der Technologie\", or in English, Destruction through Advancement of Technology), led by David Robert Jones (Jared Harris), who are preparing for a doomsday event. The ZFT threat appears to end when Peter kills Jones as he attempts travel to a parallel universe. Olivia comes to learn she was a child test subject for Walter years ago (then known as Olive) for a nootropic drug, Cortexiphan, giving her weak psionic abilities. Walter also struggles with adjusting to normal life in Peter's care after living seventeen years in a mental institution while hiding the fact that Peter is from the parallel universe, \"his\" Peter having died as a child.\n\nIn Season 2, the occurrences are found to be in conjunction with activities of a parallel universe, which is plagued by singularities occurring at weakened points of the fabric between worlds; over there, scientists have developed an amber-like substance that isolates these singularities as well as any innocent people caught in the area on its release. The Fringe team deals with more cases that are leading to a \"great storm\" as the parallel universe appears to be at war with the prime one, engineered by human-machine hybrid shapeshifters from the parallel universe. Walter is forced to tell Peter that he is from the parallel universe, a replacement for his own Peter, who died from a genetic disease. Walter had crossed over on the frozen ice of Reiden Lake in 1985 to administer the cure for the alternate version of Peter, but, after accidentally destroying a dose of the cure upon transport, he instead brought the boy across. On return, they fell through the ice but were saved by the Observer September (Michael Cerveris), who told Walter of the importance of \"the boy\", which Walter took to mean Peter. Walter's crossing is what caused the singularities in the parallel universe, with Reiden Lake at their epicenter. Walter has been looking for a sign of forgiveness in the form of a white tulip.\n\nSeason 3 presents episodes that alternate between the two universes. \"Walternate\", Walter's doppelgänger in the parallel universe, is the U.S. Secretary of Defense and has set events in motion to assemble the Machine, a doomsday device that reacts only to Peter's biology. He also sent his Olivia, \"Fauxlivia\", to the prime universe, in Olivia's place, to engage the Fringe Division and assemble the prime universe's version of the device, while he studies Olivia's Cortexiphan-induced powers. By happenstance, Fauxlivia becomes pregnant with Peter's child, Henry, before being outed and extracted to the parallel universe. Walternate orchestrated acceleration of the pregnancy to gain a sample of the baby's blood, which he uses to activate the machine. Peter, with Olivia's help, enters the prime version of the machine, and experiences a vision of the future where the parallel universe has been destroyed and the same fate threatens the prime one, and learns the Machine is really a device created by Walter and his associates from this future, sent back in time purposely to relay this vision of the future to Peter. Recovering in the present, Peter alters his plan and uses the Machine to merge the two rooms, creating a bridge where inhabitants of both universes can solve their dilemma, before time is re-written so September (The Observer) doesn't save him and is forgotten by both Walter and Olivia.\n\nSeason 4 begins in an alternate timeline, one in which September had failed to save the alternate version of Peter in 1985, according to the Observers. This creates a butterfly effect influencing the main characters' pasts but otherwise stabilizing both universes due to the creation of the bridge. Peter is pulled into this new timeline due to the actions of the alternate timeline's Fringe team, which includes Lincoln Lee (Seth Gabel). Peter initially works to return to his own timeline, fueled by fears that his memories are altering Cortexiphan-dosed Olivia's of this timeline, but after encountering a wounded September, Peter comes to learn that this timeline is truly his home, and both he and Olivia come to accept the change, rekindling their affair. September also reveals to Peter that the Observers needed to erase Peter's son, Henry, to assure their future will be created, though noting that Peter's future child with Olivia will be important. Meanwhile, in the present, William Bell has instructed David Robert Jones, alive in this timeline, to work with the parallel universe's version of Nina Sharp to synchronize the two universes, aiming to collapse them both and pave the way for a third universe under Bell's control, using Olivia's Cortexiphan powers to enable the collapse. The Fringe division is forced to close the dimensional bridge, but this fails to stop Bell's plan. Walter is left with one choice, to shoot and kill Olivia, her death disrupting the process and saving the world. Olivia's \"death\" is only temporary, as the Cortexiphan in her body is consumed to repair the bullet wound, leaving her alive and healthy but lacking her psionic abilities. As Olivia and Peter begin their lives together, September appears to Walter and warns that the Observers \"are coming\".\n\nThe fifth and final season begins in 2036, following from the flash-forward fourth-season episode \"Letters of Transit\". As September warned, Observers from the far future, having ruined Earth for themselves, time-traveled to 2015 and instituted \"The Purge\", wiped out much of humanity, subjected the survivors to their control, and began modifying the planet's environment to be more suitable for themselves. The Fringe team was able to seal themselves in amber to avoid capture shortly after the Purge, and are reunited through Henrietta (\"Etta\") (Georgina Haig), Peter and Olivia's now adult daughter who disappeared shortly after the Observer arrival in 2015. Walter reveals he and September developed a plan to defeat the Observers, revealed through a series of pre-recorded videotapes ambered in the lab. The tapes lead to several components of a device, including a young Observer child, named Michael (Spencer List in Season 1 and Rowan Longworth in Season 5), but further allude to a man named Donald that had helped Walter prepare the plan. Etta is killed during these events, driving Olivia and Peter to complete the plan for her sake. Through Michael, they discover Donald is September, having been stripped of his Observer powers for helping the Fringe team, and that Michael is his genetic son, having been purposely grown as an anomaly in the far future. September explains the plan is to send Michael to the year 2167, where human genetic experiments to sacrifice emotion for intelligence would be started and leading to the creation of the Observers; by showing them Michael, who possesses both emotion and intelligence, the experiments would be stopped and the Observers never created. September is prepared to take Michael to the future as the plan is set in motion, but he is shot and killed at the last moment; Walter, already made aware that he will have to make a sacrifice, takes Michael through to the future to assure the plan's completion. As predicted, time is reset from the invasion onwards in 2015; the Observers never invade, and Peter, Olivia, and Etta, live their lives peacefully—though Peter receives one final letter from his father: a drawing of a white tulip.\n\nMuch of the story arc for \"Fringe\" involves an alternate universe that mostly mirrors the prime universe, but with numerous historical idiosyncrasies. A significant example element used is the effect of the September 11 attacks; though this event also occurred in the alternate universe, the World Trade Center was untouched by the attacks, leaving the buildings as predominant landmarks in the alternate world's skyline of \"Manhatan\". The South Tower was used as the office of William Bell in several episodes.\n\nThe producers were strongly interested in \"world building,\" and the alternate universe allowed them to create a very similar world with a large amount of detail to fill in the texture of the world. An alternate universe also allowed them to show \"how small choices that you make define you as a person and can change your life in large ways down the line,\" according to co-director Jeff Pinkner. However, the producers also realized the concept of the alternate universe could be confusing to viewers. To avoid this, elements of the world were introduced in small pieces over the course of the first two seasons before the larger revelation in the second-season finale and the third season. J. H. Wyman stated that he would often pass the story ideas for the alternate universe by his father to see if it made sense, and would rework the script if his father found it confusing. Such world building also gave them a risky opportunity to create stories that focused solely on characters from the alternate universe with nearly no ties to the main characters; as stated by Wyman, they would be able to \"make two shows about one show,\" a concept that the network executives embraced.\n\nPrior to commercial breaks, a brief image of a glyph is shown. Abrams revealed in an interview that the glyphs had a hidden meaning. \"It's something that we're doing for people who care to figure it out and follow it, but it's not something that a viewer has to consider when they watch the show.\" Abrams also revealed that the seemingly unrelated frogs which have the Greek letter Phi (Φ) imprinted on their back appeared in promos for the show have significance within the context of the series, saying \"it's part of the code of the show.\" The glyph code was cracked by an editor at the technology site Ars Technica, who discovered it to be a simple substitution cipher used to spell out a single thematic word for each episode; for example, the pilot episode's eight glyphs spell out the word \"observer\". Additionally, the glyphs are representative of some of the means by which Walter solves a case (such as the moth/butterfly from \"Johari Window\", the seahorse strain of DNA from \"The Bishop Revival\"). In \"Jacksonville\", behind Walter as he speaks to Olivia about her treatment where the nootropic Cortexiphan was first studied as a trial, each of the glyphs is clearly visible on the daycare wall. An episode-by-episode key to the various glyphs was made available on Fringepedia.\n\nThe show's standard opening sequence interplays images of the glyph symbols alongside words representing fringe science topics, such as \"teleportation\" and \"dark matter\". Within the third season, with episodes that took place primarily in the parallel universe, a new set of titles was used, following a similar format, though tinted red instead of blue and using alternate fringe science concepts like \"hypnosis\" and \"neuroscience\". The difference in color has led some fans to call the prime universe the Blue one in contrast to the parallel Red one. In the third-season episode \"Entrada\", the titles used a mix of both the blue- and red-tinted versions, given that the episode took place equally in each universe. In the two flashback episodes, \"Peter\" and \"Subject 13,\" a variation on the sequence, using retro graphics akin to 1980s technology and phrases like \"personal computing\" and \"genetic engineering,\" was used. For the dystopian future third-season episode \"The Day We Died,\" a black-toned theme, with more dire phrases like \"hope\" and \"water,\" was used. The fourth-season premiere, \"Neither Here Nor There\" introduced an amber-toned title sequence with additional new terms that is used for nearly all fourth-season episodes. The fourth-season episode \"Letters of Transit,\" which returned to the future dystopian universe, and the subsequent fifth-season episodes, feature a cold-toned title sequence with phrases such as \"joy,\" \"private thought,\" \"free will,\" and \"freedom,\" ideas which have been lost in this future. There is one frame in the opening sequence in which the words \"Observers are here\" flash very quickly, and the opening sequence must be paused to see them.\n\n\n\nCo-created by J. J. Abrams, Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman, \"Fringe\" is produced by Bad Robot in association with Warner Bros. Television, as part of a commitment that Abrams previously made with the studio. At the time, Abrams was working with Orci and Kurtzman on the \"Star Trek\" film, and met at one of the Comic-Cons during \"Star Trek\"s production to brainstorm ideas for the show. Abrams later brought Bryan Burk, a producer on several of his films, to help with developing the series.\n\nAbrams's inspiration for \"Fringe\" came from a range of sources, including the writings of Michael Crichton, the film \"Altered States\", films by David Cronenberg, and the television series \"The X-Files\" and \"The Twilight Zone\". Orci stated that \"Fringe\" is a \"new kind of storytelling\", combining procedural shows such as \"Law & Order\", and an \"extremely serialized and very culty\" series like \"Lost\". The procedural aspect was chosen because, at the time of its premiere, six of the ten top shows were procedural in nature; Orci stated that \"you have to be a fool not to go study what it is that they're doing\". Abrams had originally considered naming the series \"The Lab\", as they had envisioned Walter's laboratory to be \"the epicenter of the conversation\", and where \"anything is possible\".\n\nThough the team saw this as a way of presenting \"mystery of the week\"-type episodes, they wanted to focus more on how these stories were told in unpredictable ways rather than the actual mystery, recognizing that most of their target audience has seen such mysteries before through previous shows and films. Instead, they wanted their storytelling to be original and unexpected, and, as claimed by Kurtzman, one of the most challenging aspects of developing the individual episodes. Serialization of the show was important to tell their overall story with larger plot elements, but Abrams recognized the difficulties that his earlier serialized shows, such as \"Lost\" and \"Alias\", had in attracting and maintaining viewers that had not seen these shows from the start or who missed episodes sporadically. For \"Fringe\", Abrams instead sought to create, as stated by David Itzkoff of the \"New York Times\", \"a show that suggested complexity but was comprehensible in any given episode\". The writers aimed to balance a line between stand-alone episodes, a factor requested by Fox, and a heavily serialized show; they balanced these by moving the serialization aspect to the growth and development of their characters. This gave them the ability to write self-contained episodes that still contained elements related to the overall mythos. However, as production continued, the creative staff found the show itself took on a more serialized nature and opted towards this approach in later seasons while still balancing self-contained episodes.\n\nOne method was by introducing overarching themes that individual episodes could be tied to, such as \"The Pattern\" in Season 1, providing information repeatedly about the larger plot over the course of several episodes or seasons. Abrams also created characters whose alliances to the larger narrative were clear, avoiding a similar problem that had occurred during the first and second seasons of \"Alias\". A final step taken was to script out all of the major long-running plot elements, including the show's finale, prior to full-time production. Abrams contrasted this to the process used in \"Lost\", where ideas like character flashbacks and the hatch from the second season were introduced haphazardly and made difficulties in defining when they should be presented to the viewers. Instead, with \"Fringe\", they were able to create \"clearly defined goalposts\" (in Itzkoff's words) that could be altered as necessary with network and seasonal changes but always provided a clear target for the overarching plot. These approaches also allowed the team to introduce unique plot elements to be introduced in time that would have altered the show's fate if known at the start. Abrams stated that \"There are certain details that are hugely important that I believe, if shared, will destroy any chance of actually getting on the air.\" Abrams noted that they are able to benefit from \"how open Fox as a network has been to a show that is embracing the weirdness and the long-term stories that we want to tell\". During the third season, executive producer Jeff Pinkner noted that \"We have six to eight seasons worth of material. We see it as having certain chapters that would enrich the overall story, but aren't necessary to tell the overall story. God willing, the network allows us the time to tell our complete story.\"\n\nAs part of the larger story, the writers have placed elements in earlier episodes that are referenced in episodes seasons later. For example, in the first-season episode \"The Ghost Network\", the Fringe team encounters an amber-like substance, which is later shown to be a critical means to combat the breakdown of the parallel universe and eventually for the same in the prime universe with the third-season episode \"6B\". Pinkner compared this aspect to \"planting seeds\", some which they know how they plan to use later in the show's story, while others they can find ways of incorporating into these later episodes.\n\nHe further attributed these elements as part of the \"world building\" to flesh out the show beyond episodic content. The producers have stated that when the show's mythology is introduced, it is not simply there to tie episodes together, but \"to provide answers that generate consequences\".\n\nCertain elements of the show's mythology were established from the start. The parallel universe was always part of the original concept, though aspects of when and how to introduce it were tackled as the show proceeded. The idea of Peter being from the parallel universe came early into the show's production, but this came to lead the team to jokingly refer to Peter as their \"hatch\", one of the early mysteries in \"Lost\", as with the hatch in \"Lost\", they initially had no idea how to introduce this within the show. FOX's Reilly was also initially concerned about the parallel universe aspect, but as the show progressed into the first season and found its groove, the concept was readily accepted. The most poignant introduction of the parallel universe was in the conclusion of the first-season finale, \"There's More Than One of Everything\", where they showed the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center were still standing in the parallel universe, a concept introduced by writer Andrew Kreisberg as an iconic image to leave viewers with; Jackson stated, \"I don't know that we've ever had a better visual or a better cliff-hanger.\"\n\nOther mythos elements were devised as the series progressed. The writers had originally envisioned only spending small portions of episodes within the parallel universe, but as they wrote these episodes within Season 3, they brought out the idea of setting entire episodes within the parallel universe. This necessitated the development of the alternate versions of the main characters, which Pinkner considered \"a great playground just for imagination\". The actors themselves found this concept exciting, as it allowed them to play different characters but with the same background and considered it a creative challenge. Similarly, having Peter erased from the timeline as part of the finale for Season 3 was an idea that grew over the course of that season. The writers were aware this would be a risky move but felt the idea was very appropriate for \"Fringe\", and opted to write towards this after considering all the consequences. Pinkner noted that this gave them an opportunity to \"reset the character relationships\" and determine the key aspects that would remain without Peter, as well as \"making the audience uncomfortable at times\". The cast was not initially sold with the idea, but came around as the fourth season progressed.\n\nAfter developing the core concepts of the show, Abrams began to seek studios to develop the show; Abrams' past successes led to Warner Bros. Television and the Fox Television Network to quickly jump on board the project. Peter Roth, the chief executive of Warner Bros. Television, had been actively seeking to bring any Abrams' project to his studio, and heard Abrams' pitch for \"Fringe\" at a dinner meeting in August 2007. Similarly, Kevin Reilly, the entertainment chairman at Fox, knew that it was critical for him to bring the next Abrams' project to his network, and worked with Roth to assure this would happen.\n\nJeff Pinkner was selected to act as the head showrunner and executive producer. Abrams noted that he trusts Pinkner after working together with him on \"Alias\" and \"Lost\". Pinkner became interested in the show during a visit to the set of \"Star Trek\", during which Abrams was discussing the concept of \"Fringe\" with Orci and Kurtzman, knowing that they would not be involved in the direct production of the work. Abrams pitched the idea to Pinkner, who was intrigued by the importance of characters in a science fiction drama. In season two, J.H. Wyman was brought on as executive producer and showrunner with Pinkner. Wyman had been a science fiction enthusiast but had worried that he had not written anything in that genre but after learning about the concept of the show, felt his role as an executive producer was \"a match made in heaven\".\n\nMichael Giacchino, Abrams' frequent collaborator, composed the music for the pilot of \"Fringe\", before handing over duties to his assistants Chad Seiter and Chris Tilton; Tilton took over scoring duties from Season 2 onward. While Giacchino retains an on-screen credit, Abrams himself wrote the series theme music.\n\nThe two-hour pilot episode, filmed in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, cost a total of $10 million to create. A basement of an old church was used for Walter's lab set in the pilot, and this set was replicated at other film sites in New York and Vancouver when the show moved. The lab set was designed by Carol Spier, the production designer for several of Cronenberg's films. John Noble called his character's lab \"the heart and soul of \"Fringe\"\", so consequently, \"That has to remain constant.\" A cow used in the pilot episode had to be recast when production of Season 1 was moved to New York, due to livestock restrictions preventing it from being brought from Canada to the United States. Other locations used in the first season included other universities to stage for the Harvard University campus, where Walter's lab is located. These included Pratt Institute and Yale University, including its Old Campus (particularly Phelps Hall and Durfee Hall), Branford College, and the exterior of Yale Law School, University of Toronto's University College, Brooklyn College.\n\nOn February 21, 2009, it was reported that in the event that \"Fringe\" would be renewed for a second season, the show would move production to Vancouver from New York City as a cost-cutting measure. Executive producer Jeff Pinkner explained:\n\nWe want to stay in New York, New York has been incredibly good to us. It feels like we're being kicked out of the city. I know we're not, but they're making it impossible for us to afford doing the show ... Our New York crew is spectacular, they've worked their [butts] off to make the show look great. But it looks like New York is not renewing a tax credit that makes it possible to make our budget in New York. So it looks like, out of necessity, we'll have to leave New York, which is not anything we are welcoming.\n\nAs plans were being made to move the production to Canada, the New York state legislature passed continuation of the film and tax credits, as planned. Upon productions moving to Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada for season 2, the University of British Columbia now stands in for Harvard. The area around New Westminster often serves as filming locations for \"Fringe\" stories that take place in the parallel universe.\n\nPrior to the start of production for the fifth season, Pinkner announced that he was leaving the production of the show to pursue other projects; Wyman would remain as the sole showrunner for the show.\n\nThe show's main characters, Olivia, Peter, and Walter, were core of the concept for \"Fringe\". The creators recognized early that \"the idea that telling a father-son story and a relationship story was a really compelling one and a very accessible one\", according to Kurtzman. They were able to provide the characters with backstories that, like with other long-term plot elements, could be alluded to over several episodes and seasons.\n\nThe characters would also contrast with the typical procedural genre show; rather than having clearly defined roles episode to episode, they instead \"have an emotional memory and an emotional investment\", as stated by Orci. This also allowed for, as necessary, characters to be removed or introduced to the show and have a larger impact on the other characters.\n\nThe first actors cast were Kirk Acevedo and Mark Valley, who portrayed FBI agents Charlie Francis and John Scott, respectively. John Noble and Lance Reddick, who play Dr. Walter Bishop and Homeland Security agent Phillip Broyles, joined the cast later on. Casting of Anna Torv, Blair Brown, and Jasika Nicole, who play Olivia Dunham, Massive Dynamic employee Nina Sharp, and Astrid Farnsworth, a federal agent and assistant to Olivia Dunham, respectively, followed; while Joshua Jackson, who plays Peter Bishop, was the last main character to be cast. Jackson auditioned for James T. Kirk in Abrams' \"Star Trek\" and believed this is what impressed the producer to cast him in his television project, though Abrams later clarified that it was recalling his previous experience with working with Jackson on his television series \"Felicity\". For the principal and recurring actors, they were all intrigued by the script for the pilot, comparing it to a two-hour-long movie, as well as Abrams' reputation.\n\nOn April 8, 2009, it was announced that Leonard Nimoy would appear as Walter Bishop's former lab partner, Dr. William Bell in the first season's finale, which explores the existence of an ominous parallel universe. This choice led one reviewer to question if \"Fringe\"s plot might be a homage to the \"\" episode \"Mirror, Mirror\", which explored the concept of an alternate reality referred to as a \"mirror universe\", and an evil version of Spock distinguished by a goatee. Nimoy returned as Dr. Bell for an extended arc, and according to Orci, Bell is \"the beginning of the answers to even bigger questions.\" Nimoy reprised his role in the second-season finale, where his character and Walter met for a \"showdown\". Nimoy's character is apparently dead after the season finale, having used himself to help Walter, Peter and the Alternate Olivia back to the prime universe. As he had retired from acting, it was thought unlikely that his character would return. In February 2011 however, he announced his definite plan to return to \"Fringe\" and reprise his role as William Bell. He returned to voice the character in the animated segments of the third-season episode \"Lysergic Acid Diethylamide\", and appeared as a computer-generated character in the fourth-season episode \"Letters of Transit\". In the two-part finale of the fourth season, Nimoy returned to play the ultimate antagonist of the alternate timeline story arc.\n\nEarly reception through the first season was generally lukewarm, with many noting it's \"lackluster\" start and the \"dullness\" of the characters. However, changes in the approach and storytelling of the show in the second and subsequent seasons led to more positive critical reception and made it a media favorite. As a whole, the series was well received by the critics and has developed a cult following.\n\nThe pilot episode was watched by 9.13 million viewers, garnering 3.2/9 Nielsen ratings among adults 18–49, with ratings improving over the course of the episode. Ratings improved greatly for the second episode, \"The Same Old Story\" which 13.27 million people watched, making it the fifth most watched show of the week. As of October 2008, the show had achieved the first place in the 18–49 demographic among new shows. Barry Garron at \"The Hollywood Reporter\" found it promising and \"reminiscent of battle-of-the-sexes charm.\" Robert Bianco, of \"USA Today\", said, \"What Abrams brings to Fringe is a director's eye for plot and pace, a fan's love of sci-fi excitement, and a story-teller's gift for investing absurd events with real emotions and relatable characters.\" Travis Fickett of IGN gave it 7.6 out of 10, calling it \"a lackluster pilot that promises to be a pretty good series\". While Tim Goodman of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" remarked that it was \"boundlessly ambitious\", \"Chicago Sun-Times\"s Misha Davenport called it an \"update of \"The X-Files\" with the addition of terrorism and the office of Homeland Security\". In a 2016 retrospective of the series, \"A.V. Club\" writer Joshua Alston noted that the similarities to \"The X-Files\", including the \"monster of the week\" approach and tepid romance between two of the series' lead characters, as well as the relatively recent release of \"\", had turned audiences off the show since \"it was retreading what \"The X-Files\" had already done.\"\n\nIn its \"2008 Year in Review\", Television Without Pity declared \"Fringe\" one of the year's biggest TV disappointments, commenting that the show is \"entertaining\" and \"the cast is largely strong\" but the character development is insufficient, and describing main character Olivia Dunham as \"wooden and distant.\" <ref name=\"TV W/O Pity\"></ref> Meanwhile, in other articles recounting the best and worst of 2008, \"The New York Times\" stated that \"Fringe\" \"is the best of a rash of new series that toy with the paranormal\". The author goes on to praise the cast saying that \"Much credit belongs to Anna Torv who stars as an F.B.I. agent investigating bizarre murders that all appear to be linked to a powerful and mysterious multinational corporation\", and \"Ms. Torv is backed up ably by John Noble as a crazy but brilliant fringe scientist and his level-headed but skeptical son, played by Joshua Jackson\".\n\nSeasons of \"Fringe\" after the first season were seen as vast improvements on the first. \"Entertainment Weekly\" stated, \"The best new show of the year took a few weeks to grow on me, but now it's a full-blown addiction.\" The \"Los Angeles Times\" called Walter Bishop one of the best characters of 2008, noting, \"the role of the modern-day mad scientist could so easily have been a disaster, but the 'Fringe' writers and the masterful John Noble have conspired to create a character that seems, as trite as it sounds, more Shakespearean than sci-fi.\"\n\n\"Chicago Tribune\" stated that some episodes are \"distressingly predictable and formulaic\" but adds that there have also been some excellent episodes. The \"New York Times\" named \"Fringe\" one of the top 10 television shows in 2010. while Television Without Pity, previously dismissive of the show, listed it amongst their 2010 \"Most Memorable TV Moments\", stating \"there were so many great Fringe moments this year\" and \"we were treated to some of the best sci-fi on television this past fall\".\n\n\"The A.V. Club\" named \"Fringe\" the 15th best show of 2010, stated that the episode \"Peter\" gave \"the series' overarching storyline a devastating emotional core\", making the series a \"rare blend of inventive ideas, wild ambition, and unexpected soulfulness\". IGN named \"Fringe\" the 18th best science fiction show of all time in a 2011 listing, stating that since the middle of the first season, \"it's been nothing but a series of satisfyingly jaw-dropping 'holy eff!' moments layered with wonderful, nuanced performances from Anna Torv, Joshua Jackson and John Noble\".\n\nIn 2012, \"Entertainment Weekly\" listed the show at #17 in the \"25 Best Cult TV Shows from the Past 25 Years\", saying, \"\"Fringe\" was conceived as a mass-appeal genre procedural, with a background mythology that wouldn't detract from monster-of-the-week episodes. ... But the mythology overtook the monsters following the revelation of a parallel universe. By its third season, \"Fringe\" was overpopulated by multiple versions of every character. Unfortunately, that increasing narrative complexity has steadily pigeonholed it as a niche show.\"\n\nIn 2015, \"Bustle\" declared \"White Tulip\" as \"one of the greatest hours in television history\". He wrote, \"'White Tulip' is an hour of television that shouldn't work, that technically doesn't even exist ... but thank god it does, because it's one of the most powerful episodes ever created — and it showcases why \"Fringe\" is one of the most criminally underrated series of our time.\"\n\nThe following is a table of seasonal U.S. rankings (based on total viewers per episode including reruns) of \"Fringe\" on Fox.\n\n\"Fringe\" premiered in the 2008 United States television season at a regular timeslot of 9:00 p.m. Eastern on Tuesdays. During Season 1, \"Fringe\" was part of a Fox initiative known as \"Remote-Free TV\". Episodes of \"Fringe\" were longer than standard dramas on current network television. The show ran with half the commercials, adding about six minutes to the show's runtime. When the show went to a commercial, a short bumper aired informing the viewer of roughly how much time commercials would consume before the program resumed. The pilot episode was leaked via BitTorrent, three months before the series premiere; similar to leaked fellow Fox series \"\". The series was renewed for a second season on May 4, 2009, and moved to 9:00 p.m. on Thursday.\n\nIt was renewed for a third season on March 6, 2010. As part of a reorganization of its 2010 midseason line up to capture more market for \"American Idol\", the Fox network shifted \"Fringe\" to 9:00 p.m. on Fridays. This timeslot, commonly considered the \"Friday night death slot\" for several previous Fox shows due to cancellation shortly following the move to that slot, left critics considering the show's fate. While \"The X-Files\" originally premiered during this slot and would continue to be a highly successful series, critics were unsure if \"Fringe\" could duplicate this performance. In this slot, the show competed with \"Supernatural\", a series that attracts similar types of viewers. Fox's Entertainment President Kevin Reilly, in response to these concerns, stated that 45% of \"Fringe\"s viewership is from time shifting recording through digital video receivers, and does not expect the viewership numbers to change significantly with the change to Friday. Reilly further postulated that \"If it does anywhere near what it did on Thursdays, we can glue that show to the schedule because it can be a big win for us\". Further promoted by the critical reaction to the rescheduling, the Fox network created a self-deprecating promotional advertisement acknowledging the reputation of the time slot, including quotes from other media outlets concerned about the move, but asserted that the move would \"re-animate\" the show. The network also created a music video, set to \"Echoes\" by the band Klaxons as a means of summarizing the third season to date prior to the first Friday broadcast. Joshua Jackson, who plays Peter Bishop on the show, cautioned that time-shifted viewership may not be enough to save the show: \"It's not that not enough people are watching \"Fringe\", it's that not enough people are watching \"Fringe\" during the hour that it's on the air, which is key for the network.\"\n\nProducers Pinkner and Wyman also were excited about the move to Fridays, considering the slot as \"open territory that can be conquered\" and that they \"can actually deliver like \"The X-Files\" did\". Series creator Abrams was less optimistic of the move to Friday nights, aware that the show's likelihood to be renewed for a fourth season would be highly dependent on the number of niche viewers that continue to watch the show. Abrams did affirm that moving to Friday nights allows them to take more creative freedoms to maintain viewership in the new timeslot, but feels that if the show was not renewed for another season, they would be \"hard pressed\" to resolve the story by the end of the third season.\n\nThe show's first episode at the Friday 9:00 p.m. timeslot (\"The Firefly\") scored a 1.9 in the key 18–49 demographic which was an increase of 12% over its last Thursday-aired episode (\"Marionette\") which scored a 1.7, and maintained similar numbers in the second week for \"Reciprocity\". Though viewership slipped in further weeks, the show was renewed for a fourth season in March 2011. The move was unexpected based on these ratings, given the past performance of shows with similar viewership numbers in the Friday night slot, but several critics attribute it to the strong fanbase that the show has garnered, which contributes in part to consistently higher time-shifted viewership. Fox's Reilly stated that:\n\nReilly further added that the renewal was also prompted by the high risk of trying to replace \"Fringe\" with another show with unknown viewership metrics; he commented that they \"have a far better shot of sticking with a show that has an audience that [they] think [they] can grow\". Prior to the onset of the fourth season, Reilly reiterated that they do not expect any significant growth in \"Fringe\"s viewership within that season: \"It's a pretty complex show. If \"Fringe\" can do exactly what \"Fringe\" did last year, we're going to be very happy. They're right in the pocket creatively once again.\" Wyman stated in an interview with \"The Hollywood Reporter\" that the Fox network had been \"supportive throughout this process\", and though the show's viewership \"wasn't exactly what they would've hoped for\", aspects such as a loyal fan base and supportive critics were enough to take the show forward for another season. Pinkner commented that \"there were no creative conditions\" on the show's renewal, nor any cuts in the show's budget, though was unsure if the show will be moved to a different time slot. Noble, at the 2011 Comic-Con \"Fringe\" panel, reiterated that the fans were responsible for the livelihood of the show, stated, \"Seriously, without your efforts, your rabid support, we wouldn't be here right now. You are the best fans that ever existed\". The fourth season premiered on September 23, 2011.\n\nBefore the renewal of the fifth season, Abrams stated some skepticism for a renewal opportunity, but hoped that if it was cancelled, that it may be picked up by another network. On the other hand, Abrams considered that if Fox did pick up the show for a fifth season, \"the next year would be the great ending for the show\". Similarly, Fox's Reilly remained cautious about a renewal, noting that while the show is one of the top shows in the Friday night slot, \"it's an expensive show. We lose a lot of money on the show.\" Reilly further reiterated the dedication of the fans of the show for helping it to its fourth season and continued success. When asked about whether the writers would have enough notice to write the fourth-season finale as a series finale if necessary, Reilly stated, \"That's a Peter Roth issue\" (chief executive of Warner Bros. Television). To which Roth responded, \"We have no plans to give viewers closure this season because we expect the series to continue\". In late January 2012, Fox and Warner Bros. Television were working on negotiating a lower licensing cost for the show to allow a fifth season to occur; this would not only help Fox reduce its losses on the show, but would also bring the total number of episodes above 100, giving Warner Bros. a better opportunity to syndicate reruns of the show. Before the announcement of the fifth season, Wyman and Pinkner stated that they would have created a series finale for the end of the fourth season should the show be cancelled; Wyman stated \"We want to take care of the fans. We want them to see where it would have gone, but we also know the show has been a commitment and we want everyone to be satisfied with it.\"\n\nThe show was officially renewed for a fifth and final season for the 2012–2013 television season, consisting of a shortened set of 13 episodes, on April 26, 2012, with its premiere on September 28, 2012. Reilly, in announcing the renewal, stated that \"\"Fringe\" is a remarkably creative series that has set the bar as one of television's most imaginative dramas. Bringing it back for a final 13 allows us to provide the climactic conclusion that its passionate and loyal fans deserve\". The writing team crafted an idea for a cohesive story-driven set of thirteen episodes as a means to complete the series, and to \"honor the audience that had served us so well was to say a proper farewell\", according to Roth. Noble called it \"the season for the fans\", with the story revisiting many of the elements from the show's past.\n\n\"Fringe\" and its cast and crew have been nominated and won several awards including Emmys, Saturn Awards, Golden Reel Awards, Satellite Awards, and Writers Guild of America Awards.\n\n\"Fringe\" premiered in Canada on CTV simultaneous to its U.S. premiere and was the most watched program in Canada that week. The show would fluctuate between airing on CTV and A during its first two seasons. Beginning with the third season, \"Fringe\" was broadcast on City in Canada.\n\nA version of the show (edited for time) premiered on the Nine Network in Australia on September 17, 2008. In the season one episode \"In Which We Meet Mr. Jones\", the opening scene where doctors discover a parasite on Detective Loeb's heart was cut, going straight to the opening credits. Nine Network later dropped the show from its primetime schedule. This was temporary as the show returned during the December to January non-ratings period. The series later moved to Nine's digital multi-channel, GO!, where the last few seasons were played out.\n\nThe series premiered in the United Kingdom on Sky1 on October 5, 2008.\n\nWith 13 episodes in its final season, \"Fringe\" has a total of 100 episodes, a critical number for syndication deals for Warner Bros., and considered part of the reason for the show's final renewal. The show premiered in syndication on the Science Network on November 20, 2012.\n\nThe first season of \"Fringe\" was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc on September 8, 2009 in region 1. In addition to all the episodes that had been aired, extras include three commentary tracks, unaired scenes, gag reels and behind the scenes features. A \"\"Fringe\" Pattern Analysis\" feature is included on the Blu-ray version as an exclusive. The sets were released on September 28, 2009 in region 2 and on September 30, 2009 in region 4.\n\nThe second season features four commentary tracks, a gag reel, deleted scenes, behind the scenes videos, and the episode \"Unearthed\", an episode, produced for the first season, which aired out of schedule during the second season. It was released on DVD and Blu-ray on September 14, 2010 in region 1, on September 27, 2010 in region 2, and on November 10, 2010 in region 4.\n\nThe third season features two commentary tracks, a gag reel, behind the scenes videos, and two features exclusive to the Blu-ray version. It was released on DVD and Blu-ray on September 6, 2011 in region 1, on September 26, 2011 in region 2, and on October 26, 2011 in region 4.\n\nThe fourth season includes several special features, including \"The Culture of \"Fringe\"\", a roundtable discussion with series writers and university professors regarding the science featured in the series; features on how the disappearance of Peter affects the timeline, and the role of the Observers; two features covering the \"Fringe\" comic series; and a gag reel. It was released on DVD and Blu-ray on September 4, 2011 in region 1, on September 24, 2012 in region 2, and on October 31, 2012 in region 4.\n\nThe fifth season includes featurettes titled \"A Farewell to \"Fringe\" and \"Fringe\" Panel at Comic-Con 2012\", as well audio commentaries and a gag reel. It was released on Blu-ray and DVD on May 7, 2013 in region 1 and on May 13, 2013 in region 2. A complete series box set was also released on the same dates of the fifth season release in the respective regions.\n\nAn alternate reality game, centered on the fictional Massive Dynamic corporation, was introduced during the pilot and featured \"strange symbols paired with glowing dots\" appearing throughout the episode and an \"advertisement\" for the company shown at the end with a web address for the game.\n\nOn August 27, 2008, a prequel comic book (leading right up to the moment in the pilot where Olivia 'first' meets Walter) written by Zack Whedon was released by DC Comics under its WildStorm imprint. This was to be the first issue of a monthly 6-issue limited series but the others were delayed until January 2009, when monthly publication resumed, with the sixth and final issue scheduled for release on June 17. The Vice President of WildStorm, Hank Kanalz, explained the publication hiatus: \"The writers of the show want to make sure the comic book is integrated into the mythology of the \"Fringe\" world, so we have decided to refocus the direction of the comic book. Unfortunately, this means that we will have some delays, but will be back in January.\"\n\nOn June 23, 2010, the first issue of \"Tales From the Fringe\", the second six-part monthly series, was released, while the final issue was released on November 24, 2010.\n\nAdditionally, in September 2011, DC released the first issue of \"Beyond the Fringe\" comic series. With the first story written by Joshua Jackson titled \"Peter and the Machine\". The comic issues will alternate with an 'A' story and a 'B' story each. For example, \"Peter and the Machine\" will take place in issues one, three, and so on until the story is finished and a new 'A' story starts up.\n\nAn encyclopedia guide, \"September's Notebook — The Bishop Paradox\", written by Tara Bennett and Paul Terry who had previously written the \"Lost Encyclopedia\" for \"Lost\", was released in March 2013. A three-part series of prequel novels written by Christa Faust was released throughout 2013 and 2014. Each novel deals with a member of the Fringe team's past. The first is titled \"The Zodiac Paradox\" and is about Walter and his discovery of Cortexiphan. The second in the series is titled \"The Burning Man\" and is based on Olivia and how she was first exposed to Cortexiphan. The third is titled \"Sins of the Father\" and is about Peter's life in 2008 just before the point of time when the series starts.\n\nAt San Diego Comic-Con 2012, actor John Noble mentioned that a film could be made further down the line.\n\n"}
{"id": "25486564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25486564", "title": "Gerasimos Danilatos", "text": "Gerasimos Danilatos\n\nGerasimos D. Danilatos (also known as Gerry D. Danilatos) (born circa 1946) is a Greek-Australian physicist and inventor of ESEM, the environmental scanning electron microscope.\n\nHe was born in Cefalonia, Greece. After the 1953 Ionian earthquake, his family moved to Patras, where he attended elementary and high school.\n\nAfter high school and military service, he graduated from the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and completed his physics degree with distinction. In 1972, he emigrated to Australia, and got married in 1979. He received his Ph.D. from the University of New South Wales in January 1978 after completing his Thesis on \"dynamic mechanical properties of keratin fibres\". As a scientist at the same university, he then developed the environmental scanning electron microscope (ESEM), after prior attempts by other workers to examine wet specimens under the electron beam. For the most part, he received financial support from the Australian Wool Corporation until 1986. In 2003, he received the Ernst Abbe Memorial Award from the New York Microscopical Society for his lifetime achievements.\n"}
{"id": "57599237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57599237", "title": "Hyclate", "text": "Hyclate\n\nA hyclate () pharmaceutical term for hydrochloride hemiethanolate hemihydrate (·HCl·EtOH·HO), e.g. doxycycline hyclate.\n"}
{"id": "43182632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43182632", "title": "Ilyobacter delafieldii", "text": "Ilyobacter delafieldii\n\nIlyobacter delafieldii is a motile, gram-negative, obligately anaerobic rod-shaped bacteria, with type strain 10cr1 (=DSM 5704). It is notable for metabolising beta-Hydroxybutyric acid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9624728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9624728", "title": "Information school", "text": "Information school\n\nAn Information School (sometimes abbreviated I-school or iSchool) is a university-level institution committed to understanding the role of information in nature and human endeavors. Synonyms include \"School of Information\", \"Department of Information Studies\", or \"Information Department\". Information Schools faculty conduct research into the fundamental aspects of information and related technologies. In addition to granting academic degrees, information schools educate information professionals, researchers, and scholars for an increasingly information-driven world. \n\nInformation school can also refer, in a more restricted sense, to the members of the iSchools organization (formerly the \"iSchools Project\"), as governed by the iCaucus. Members of this group share a fundamental interest in the relationships between people, information, technology, and science. These schools, colleges, and departments have been either newly established or have evolved from programs focused on information systems, library science, informatics, computer science, library and information science and information science.\nInformation schools promote an interdisciplinary approach to understanding the opportunities and challenges of information management, with a core commitment to concepts like universal access and user-centered organization of information. The field is concerned broadly with questions of design and preservation across information spaces, from digital and virtual spaces like online communities, the World Wide Web, and databases to physical spaces such as libraries, museums, archives, and other repositories. Information school degree programs include course offerings in areas such as information architecture, design, economics, policy, retrieval, security, and telecommunications; knowledge management, user experience design, and usability; conservation and preservation, including digital preservation; librarianship and library administration; the sociology of information; and human–computer interaction.\n\n\nCronin, B. (2005). An I-dentity crisis? The information schools movement. \"International Journal of Information Management, 25:\" 363–365.\n\nDebons, A. & Harmon, G. (2006) The I-Conference in Retrospect. \"Bulletin of the American Society for Information Science and Technology\", April/May.\n\nLarsen, R. (2005). An interview with Ron Larsen about I-schools. Coalition for Networked Information, 27-minute audio recording.\n"}
{"id": "3949483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3949483", "title": "Kosmos 869", "text": "Kosmos 869\n\nKosmos 869 ( meaning \"Cosmos 869\") was an unmanned military Soyuz 7K-S test. It was a somewhat successful mission.\n\n\n\nTotal Delta V: 83 m/s.\n\n\nhttp://www.friends-partners.org/partners/mwade/craft/soyuz7ks.htm\n"}
{"id": "37895380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37895380", "title": "List of Charadriiformes by population", "text": "List of Charadriiformes by population\n\nThis is a list of Charadriiformes species by global population. While numbers are estimates, they have been made by the experts in their fields.\n\nCharadriiformes (Charadrius being Latin for \"plover\") is the taxonomic order to which the waders, gulls, and auks belong. BirdLife International has assessed 352 species; 181 (51% of total species) have had their population estimated. Bird taxonomy is currently in a state of flux, much wider in scope than the complications arising from the realization that birds are dinosaurs, and a full scientific consensus on the division of orders has yet to be settled upon. The Charadriiformes, for example, are grouped with the Ciconiiformes in the Sibley-Ahlquist taxonomy. In the interest of standardization this article, along with the rest of the Wikipedia Bird Population lists, is split along the taxonomic system used by BirdLife, which is both the Earth's largest partnership of conservation organizations, and the assessment team for birds on the IUCN Red List. This is not an endorsement of any one taxonomic system, and it may change in the future as new relationships are brought to light.\n\nA variety of methods are used for counting Charadriiformes. For example, the piping plover is subject to the quinquennial \"Piping Plover International Census\", which is carried out in 9 Canadian provinces, 32 US states, Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean. In the 2006 survey, Saskatchewan alone had 159 volunteers scour 294 waterbodies. The mountain plover has had its nests counted through the drive transect method. Once density has been calculated, the numbers are extrapolated over a bird's range. For more information on how these estimates were ascertained, see Wikipedia's articles on population biology and population ecology.\n\nSpecies which can no longer be included in a list of this nature include the Tahiti sandpiper, which was only recorded in 1777, and is suspected to have fallen prey to introduced egg-eating rats. The same fate awaited the white-winged sandpiper. The Canarian oystercatcher was reported vanished by 1940, believed to have been the result of overfishing of its sustenance. The feathers of the great auk made excellent pillows, and egg collectors were so successful in their hobby that the last specimen in Britain was seen in 1840 on Stac an Armin, Scotland. This was beaten to death by three men believing it to be a witch.\n\nThe continued existence of some species has yet to be confirmed either way. The Javan lapwing, for example, has not had a confirmed sighting since 1940, but unconfirmed reports continue to give hope that the last individual has yet to die. The last confirmed sightings of the Eskimo curlew were in the early 1980s, but scientists would rather not issue a former declaration of extinction until surveying of all potential breeding locations is completed. The slender-billed curlew (included in the list below) was considered \"very common\" in the early 1800s, rare by the early 1900s. The bird was recorded 103 times between 1980 and 1990, and 74 times between 1990 and 1999. The last confirmed recording of the slender-billed curlew was in April 2001.\n\nCritically Endangered means a species has experienced a decline of at least 80% in the past ten years or three generations, or is projected to decline that much over the same period of time. A species's continued existence does not necessarily mean the bird can be salvaged, as it may have already passed the minimum viable population.\n"}
{"id": "11969224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11969224", "title": "List of Eclipse-based software", "text": "List of Eclipse-based software\n\nThe Eclipse IDE platform can be extended by adding different plug-ins. Notable examples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1618040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1618040", "title": "List of Welsh mathematicians", "text": "List of Welsh mathematicians\n\nSeveral mathematicians who have made contributions to the development of mathematics have hailed from Wales.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12947119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12947119", "title": "List of lakes in Pennsylvania", "text": "List of lakes in Pennsylvania\n\nThis is a list of lakes and reservoirs in the state of Pennsylvania in the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3478239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3478239", "title": "List of rock textures", "text": "List of rock textures\n\nThis page is intended to be a list of rock textural and morphological terms. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34115383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34115383", "title": "List of thread standards", "text": "List of thread standards\n\nA screw thread, often shortened to thread, is a helical structure used to convert between rotational and linear movement or force. A screw thread is an inclined plane wrapped around a cylinder or cone in the form of a helix, with the former being called a \"straight\" thread and the latter called a \"tapered\" thread. More screw threads are produced each year than any other machine element.\n\nThreads are generally produced according to one of the many standards of thread systems. Standards Development Organizations such as the American National Standards Institute, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, SAE International, International Organization for Standardization, Deutsches Institut für Normung (German Institute for Standardization), British Association and others produce these standards for manufacturers to follow when producing threaded components.\n\n"}
{"id": "22742831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22742831", "title": "List of voids", "text": "List of voids\n\nThis is a list of voids. Voids are particularly galaxy-poor volumes of space between filaments, making up the large-scale structure of the universe. Some voids are known as \"supervoids\".\n\nIn the tables, \"z\" is the cosmological redshift, \"c\" the speed of light, and \"h\" the dimensionless Hubble parameter (the Hubble constant \"H\" = \"h\" × 100 km s Mpc). Mpc stands for megaparsec.\n\nIn 1985, Tully determined a local dominant supercluster plane, and found the Pisces-Cetus Supercluster Complex.\n\nIn a 1985 study of Abell clusters, 29 voids were determined, in the sphere z<0.1 around Earth.\n\nA redshift survey of galaxies in the southern sky in 1988, out to a distance of 120 Mpc/\"h\", revealed some voids.\n\nIn 1994, a redshift survey in the southern sky identified 18 voids, 11 of which are major voids.\n\nA 1994 census lists a total of 27 supervoids within a cube of 740 Mpc a side, centered on us (z=0.1 distant sphere).\n\nIn a 1995 study of IRAS data looking for large-scale structure in the Galactic Anticenter in the Zone of Avoidance, four voids were discovered.\n\nAnalysis of the IRAS redshift survey in 1997 revealed 24 voids, 12 of which were termed \"significant\" \n\n"}
{"id": "43979118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43979118", "title": "Lithium atom", "text": "Lithium atom\n\nA lithium atom is an atom of the chemical element lithium. Lithium is composed of three electrons bound by the electromagnetic force to a nucleus containing three protons along with either three or four neutrons, depending on the isotope, held together by the strong force. Similarly to the case of the helium atom, a closed-form solution to the Schrödinger equation for the lithium atom has not been found. However, various approximations, such as the Hartree–Fock method, can be used to estimate the ground state energy and wavefunction of the atom. The quantum defect is a value that describes the deviation from hydrogenic energy levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "33986587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33986587", "title": "M/G/k queue", "text": "M/G/k queue\n\nIn queueing theory, a discipline within the mathematical theory of probability, an M/G/k queue is a queue model where arrivals are Markovian (modulated by a Poisson process), service times have a General distribution and there are \"k\" servers. The model name is written in Kendall's notation, and is an extension of the M/M/c queue, where service times must be exponentially distributed and of the M/G/1 queue with a single server. Most performance metrics for this queueing system are not known and remain an open problem.\n\nA queue represented by a M/G/\"k\" queue is a stochastic process whose state space is the set {0,1,2,3...}, where the value corresponds to the number of customers in the queue, including any being served. Transitions from state \"i\" to \"i\" + 1 represent the arrival of a new customer: the times between such arrivals have an exponential distribution with parameter λ. Transitions from state \"i\" to \"i\" − 1 represent the departure of a customer who has just finished being served: the length of time required for serving an individual customer has a general distribution function. The lengths of times between arrivals and of service periods are random variables which are assumed to be statistically independent.\n\nTijms \"et al.\" believe it is \"not likely that computationally tractable methods can be developed to compute the exact numerical values of the steady-state probability in the M/G/\"k\" queue.\"\n\nVarious approximations for the average queue size, stationary distribution and approximation by a reflected Brownian motion have been offered by different authors. Recently a new approximate approach based on Laplace transform for steady state probabilities has been proposed by Hamzeh Khazaei \"et al.\". This new approach is yet accurate enough in cases of large number of servers and when the distribution of service time has a Coefficient of variation more than one.\n\nThere are numerous approximations for the average delay a job experiences. The first such was given in 1959 using a factor to adjust the mean waiting time in an M/M/c queue This result is sometimes known as Kingman's law of congestion.\n\nwhere \"C\" is the coefficient of variation of the service time distribution. Ward Whitt described this approximation as “usually an excellent approximation, even given extra information about the service-time distribution.\"\n\nHowever, it is known that no approximation using only the first two moments can be accurate in all cases.\n\nA Markov–Krein characterisation has been shown to produce tight bounds on the mean waiting time.\n\nIt is conjectured that the times between departures, given a departure leaves \"n\" customers in a queue, has a mean which as \"n\" tends to infinity is different from the intuitive 1/\"μ\" result.\n\nFor an M/G/2 queue (the model with two servers) the problem of determining marginal probabilities can be reduced to solving a pair of integral equations or the Laplace transform of the distribution when the service time distribution is a mixture of exponential distributions. The Laplace transform of queue length and waiting time distributions can be computed when the waiting time distribution has a rational Laplace transform.\n"}
{"id": "4302157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4302157", "title": "M74 Group", "text": "M74 Group\n\nThe M74 Group (also known as the \"NGC 628 Group\") is a small group of galaxies in the constellation Pisces. The face-on spiral galaxy M74 (NGC 628) is the brightest galaxy within the group. Other members include the peculiar spiral galaxy NGC 660 and several smaller irregular galaxies\nThe M74 Group is one of many galaxy groups that lie within the Virgo Supercluster.\n\nThe table below lists galaxies that have been consistently identified as group members in the Nearby Galaxies Catalog, the Lyons Groups of Galaxies (LGG) Catalog, and the three group lists created from the Nearby Optical Galaxy sample of Giuricin et al.\n\nOther possible members galaxies (galaxies listed in only one or two of the lists from the above references) include the irregular galaxies UGC 891, UGC 1104, UGC 1171, UGC 1175, and UGCA 20.\n"}
{"id": "38669883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38669883", "title": "Michał Hieronim Leszczyc-Sumiński", "text": "Michał Hieronim Leszczyc-Sumiński\n\nMichal Hieronim Leszczyc-Suminski (Born September 30, 1820 in Ośno - Died 26 May 1898 in Tharandt) was a Polish botanist, painter and art collector. He is an alumnus of Humboldt University of Berlin.\n\nHe married Anne Hudson (1830–1874), the daughter of George Hudson, the so-called Railway King of England.\n\n"}
{"id": "1264824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1264824", "title": "Microcosm (CERN)", "text": "Microcosm (CERN)\n\nMicrocosm is an interactive exhibition presenting the work of the CERN particle physics laboratory and its flagship accelerator the Large Hadron Collider (LHC).\n\nThe exhibition displays many real objects, taking visitors on a journey through CERN’s key installations, from the Hydrogen bottle, source of the protons that are injected into the LHC, through the first step in the accelerator chain, the Linac, on to a model of a section of the Large Hadron Collider including elements from the superconducting magnets. Visitors can interact with the displays to try their hand at the controls of a particle accelerator – simulating the acceleration of protons in the LHC and bringing them into collision inside the experiments.\n\nThe exhibition continues with a 1 :1 scale model of a complete slice through the CMS experiment at the LHC. The computing section displays some of the Oracle data tapes used to store the 30-40 petabytes of data produced yearly by the experiments, made available for analysis using the LHC Computing GRID.\n\nThe annex to the exhibition contains other historical artifacts such as the central tracker from the UA1 detector, which ran at the Super Proton Synchrotron at CERN from 1981 to 1984, and helped discover the W and Z bosons.\n\nMicrocosm is located at CERN in the Canton of Geneva, Switzerland, near the town of Meyrin. Entrance is free, without reservation, open 6 days a week.\n\nThe current exhibition officially opened in January 2016. Contents were developed by CERN in collaboration with Spanish design team Indissoluble.\n\nThe Microcosm garden features several large components of old CERN experiments.\n\n"}
{"id": "278003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=278003", "title": "Mountain zebra", "text": "Mountain zebra\n\nThe mountain zebra (\"Equus zebra\") is a species in the family Equidae. It is native to south-western Angola, Namibia, and South Africa.\n\nThe mountain zebra comprises two subspecies:\n\nIn 2004, C. P. Groves and C. H. Bell investigated the taxonomy of the zebras (genus \"Equus\", subgenus \"Hippotigris\"). They concluded that the mountain zebra (\"Equus zebra zebra\") and Hartmann's mountain zebra (\"Equus zebra hartmannea\") are distinct, and suggested that the two would be better classified as separate species, \"Equus zebra\" and \"Equus hartmannae\".\n\nHowever, in a sexual genetic study that included 295 mountain zebra specimens, Moodley and Harley (2005) found nothing to support the separation of the two mountain zebra populations into separate species. They concluded that the Cape mountain zebra and Hartmann's mountain zebra should remain as subspecies.\n\nThis is consistent with the third edition of \"Mammal Species of the World\" (2005), which lists the mountain zebra as a single species (\"Equus zebra\") with two subspecies.\n\nThe mountain zebra has a dewlap, which is more conspicuous in \"E. z. zebra\" than in \"E. z. hartmannae\". Like all extant zebras, mountain zebras are boldly striped in black or dark brown, and no two individuals look exactly alike. The whole body is striped except for the belly. In the Cape mountain zebra, the ground colour is effectively white, but the ground colour in Hartmann's zebra is slightly buff.\n\nAdult mountain zebras have a head-and-body length of and a tail of long. Wither height ranges from . They weigh from .\n\nGroves and Bell found that Cape mountain zebras exhibit sexual dimorphism, females being larger than males, whereas Hartmann's mountain zebras do not. Hartmann's zebra is on average slightly larger than the Cape mountain zebra.\n\nMountain zebras are found on mountain slopes, open grasslands, woodlands, and areas with sufficient vegetation, but their preferred habitat is mountainous terrain, especially escarpment with a diversity of grass species.\n\nMountain zebras live in hot, dry, rocky, mountainous and hilly habitats. They prefer slopes and plateaus as high as above sea level, although they do migrate lower during winter. Their preferred diet is tufted grass, but in times of shortage, they browse, eating bark, twigs, leaves, buds, fruit, and roots.\n\nThey drink every day. When no surface water is available due to drought, they commonly dig for ground water in dry river beds.\n\nThe Cape mountain zebra and Hartmann's mountain zebra are now allopatric, meaning that their present ranges do not overlap, which prevents them from crossbreeding. This was not always so, and the current situation is a result of their populations being fragmented when hunters exterminated them throughout the Northern Cape Province of South Africa. Historically, mountain zebras could be found across the entire length of the escarpments along the west coast of southern Africa and in the fold mountain region in the south. However, they generally inhabited poorly productive land and were nowhere really numerous in comparison to those species of zebras or antelope that inhabited the plains, for example.\n\nMountain zebras do not aggregate into large herds like plains zebras; they form small family groups consisting of a single stallion and one to five mares, together with their recent offspring. Bachelor males live in separate groups, and mature bachelors attempt to capture young mares to establish a harem. In this they are opposed by the dominant stallion of the group.\nMares give birth to one foal at a time. The foal feeds mainly on its mother's milk for about a year, after which it is weaned onto solid forage. Cape mountain zebra foals generally move away from their maternal herds sometime between the ages of 13 and 37 months. However, with Hartmann's mountain zebra, mares try to expel their foals when they are aged around 14 to 16 months. Young males may wander alone for a while before joining a bachelor group, while females are either taken into another breeding herd or are joined by a bachelor male to form a new breeding herd.\n\nThe main threats to the species are the loss of habitat to agriculture, hunting, and persecution. A zebra produces a good quantity of meat, and poaching them for food (for example during guerrilla fighting) has decreased their numbers.\n\nThe species is listed as vulnerable under the IUCN Red List. The Cape mountain zebra was hunted to near extinction. In the 1930s, their population was reduced to about 100 individuals. However, consistent and vigorous conservation measures have succeeded in reversing the decline, and in 1998, the population of the Cape mountain zebra was estimated to have increased to some 1200, about 540 in national parks, 490 in provincial nature reserves, and 165 in other reserves. However, the population has increased to about over 2,700 in the wild due to conservation efforts.\n\nThough both mountain zebra subspecies are currently protected in national parks, they are still threatened. The European Zoos Endangered Species Program and co-operative management of zoo populations worldwide have been set up for them.\n\n\n\nSee mountain zebra national park\n"}
{"id": "22099483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22099483", "title": "Northeast Science Station (Russia)", "text": "Northeast Science Station (Russia)\n\nThe Northeast Science Station of the RAS () is an Arctic research station located in Chersky, Sakha Republic in Northeast Siberia. It is one of the world's three largest Arctic stations.\n\nThe Northeast Science Station is used as a year-round base for international research in arctic biology, geophysics, and atmospheric physics. The station also houses the administration of the Pleistocene Park, a local experimental wildlife preserve of 160 km.\n\nNamed after Russian explorer Jan Czerski, Chersky is sited on frozen Pleistocene carbon. The sediments here are made up of 50% ice, and 50% loess, which is a windblown sediment - the carbon content of loess deposits is five times that of a rainforest floor. During each annual melt between 2 and 5% of the stored carbon in the loess deposits is lost.\n\nFar Eastern Federal University is planning to open an Arctic campus at the research station. “At the station, students and young scientists will study permafrost melting; greenhouse gas emissions; hydrates conservation; biodiversity; land, atmosphere and surrounding seas pollution; and other climatic, biological and environmental issues,” according to a press release.\n\nResident staff consists of Nikita Zimov (director), Sergey Davydov, Galina Zimova, Sergey Zimov, Anastasija Zimova (bookkeeper).\n\nAdditionally, around sixty international researchers visit the institute annually.\n\nSalary of the resident staff is paid by the parent organisation, the Russian Academy of Sciences. The station itself is funded by the Max Planck Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14778844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14778844", "title": "Online engineering", "text": "Online engineering\n\nOnline engineering (OE; Sometimes also referred to as \"remote engineering\") is a current trend in engineering and science, aiming to allow and organize a shared use of equipment and resources, but also specialized software (such as for example simulators).\n\nReasons for the growing importance of sharing engineering resources are:\n\nThe International Association of Online Engineering (IAOE) is an international non-profit organization with the objective of encouraging the wider development, distribution and application of online engineering. The main forum of online engineering community is the annual \"International Conference on Remote Engineering and Virtual Instrumentation (REV)\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2882813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2882813", "title": "Parameter space", "text": "Parameter space\n\nIn science, a parameter space is the set of all possible combinations of values for all the different parameters contained in a particular mathematical model. The ranges of values of the parameters may form the axes of a plot, and particular outcomes of the model may be plotted against these axes to illustrate how different regions of the parameter space produce different types of behaviour in the model.\n\nOften the parameters are inputs of a function, in which case the technical term for the parameter space is domain of a function.\n\nParameter spaces are particularly useful for describing families of probability distributions that depend on parameters. More generally in science, the term parameter space is used to describe experimental variables. For example, the concept has been used in the science of soccer in the article \"Parameter space for successful soccer kicks.\" In the study, \"Success rates are determined through the use of four-dimensional parameter space volumes.\"\n\nIn the context of statistics, parameter spaces form the background for parameter estimation.\nAs Ross describes in his book:\n\nThe idea of intentionally truncating the parameter space has also been advanced elsewhere.\n\n\n\n\nParameter space contributed to the liberation of geometry from the confines of three-dimensional space. For instance, the parameter space of spheres in three dimensions, has four dimensions—three for the sphere center and another for the radius. According to Dirk Struik, it was the book \"Neue Geometrie des Raumes\" (1849) by Julius Plücker that showed\nThe requirement for higher dimensions is illustrated by Plücker's line geometry. Struik writes\nThus the Klein quadric describes the parameters of lines in space.\n\n"}
{"id": "171537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171537", "title": "Planck temperature", "text": "Planck temperature\n\nPlanck temperature, denoted by \"T\", is the unit of temperature in the system of natural units known as Planck units.\n\nIt serves as the defining unit of the Planck temperature scale. In this scale the magnitude of the Planck temperature is equal to 1, while that of absolute zero is 0.\nOther temperatures can be converted to Planck temperature units. For example, = = .\n\nIn SI units, the Planck temperature is about kelvin (equivalently, degrees Celsius, since the difference is trivially small at this scale), or degrees Fahrenheit or Rankine.\n\nWhat today is known as the Planck temperature was first introduced in 1899 by Max Planck together with his introduction of what today is known as the Planck length, the Planck mass and Planck time.\n\nThe Planck temperature is defined as:\n\nformula_1 \n\nwhere:\n\nThe two digits between the parentheses are used to denote the standard error of the last two digits of the estimated value.\n\nAs with most of the Planck units, a Planck temperature of 1 (unity) is a fundamental limit of quantum theory, in combination with gravitation, as presently understood. In other words, the wavelength of light emitted by an object can be calculated by its temperature. If an object were to reach the temperature of (\"T\"), the radiation it would emit would have a wavelength of (Planck length), at which point quantum gravitational effects become relevant. At temperatures greater than or equal to \"T\", current physical theory breaks down because we lack a theory of quantum gravity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50712", "title": "Regional science", "text": "Regional science\n\nRegional science is a field of the social sciences concerned with analytical approaches to problems that are specifically urban, rural, or regional. Topics in regional science include, but are not limited to location theory or spatial economics, location modeling, transportation, migration analysis, land use and urban development, interindustry analysis, environmental and ecological analysis, resource management, urban and regional policy analysis, geographical information systems, and spatial data analysis. In the broadest sense, any social science analysis that has a spatial dimension is embraced by regional scientists.\n\nRegional science was founded in the late 1940s when some economists began to become dissatisfied with the low level of regional economic analysis and felt an urge to upgrade it. But even in this early era, the founders of regional science expected to catch the interest of people from a wide variety of disciplines. Regional science's formal roots date to the aggressive campaigns by Walter Isard and his supporters to promote the \"objective\" and \"scientific\" analysis of settlement, industrial location, and urban development. Isard targeted key universities and campaigned tirelessly. Accordingly, the Regional Science Association was founded in 1954, when the core group of scholars and practitioners held its first meetings independent from those initially held as sessions of the annual meetings of the American Economics Association. A reason for meeting independently undoubtedly was the group's desire to extend the new science beyond the rather restrictive world of economists and have natural scientists, psychologists, anthropologists, lawyers, sociologists, political scientists, planners, and geographers join the club. Now called the Regional Science Association International (RSAI), it maintains subnational and international associations, journals, and a conference circuit (notably in North America, continental Europe, Japan, and South Korea). Membership in the RSAI continues to grow.\n\nTopically speaking, regional science took off in the wake of Walter Christaller's book \"Die Zentralen Orte in Sűddeutschland\" (Verlag von Gustav Fischer, Jena, 1933; transl. \"Central Places in Southern Germany\", 1966), soon followed by Tord Palander's (1935) \"Beiträge zur Standortstheorie\"; August Lösch's \"Die räumliche Ordnung der Wirtschaft\" (Verlag von Gustav Fischer, Jena, 1940; 2nd rev. edit., 1944; transl. \"The Economics of Location\", 1954) ; and Edgar M. Hoover's two books--\"Location Theory and the Shoe and Leather Industry\" (1938) and \"The Location of Economic Activity\" (1948). Other important early publications include: Edward H. Chamberlin's (1950) \"The Theory of Monopolistic Competition\" ; François Perroux's (1950) \"Economic Spaces: Theory and Application\"; Torsten Hägerstrand's (1953) \"Innovationsförloppet ur Korologisk Synpunkt\"; Edgar S. Dunn's (1954)\"The Location of Agricultural Production\" ; Martin J. Beckmann, C.B McGuire, and Clifford B. Winston's (1956) \"Studies in the Economics of Transportation\"; Melvin L. Greenhut's (1956) \"Plant Location in Theory and Practice\"; Gunnar Myrdal's (1957) \"Economic Theory and Underdeveloped Regions\"; Albert O. Hirschman's (1958) \"The Strategy of Economic Development\"; and Claude Ponsard's (1958) \"Histoire des Théories Économiques Spatiales\". Nonetheless, Walter Isard's first book in 1956, \"Location and Space Economy\", apparently captured the imagination of many, and his third, \"Methods of Regional Analysis\", published in 1960, only sealed his position as the father of the field.\n\nAs is typically the case, the above works were built on the shoulders of giants. Much of this predecessor work is documented well in Walter Isard's \"Location and Space Economy\" as well as Claude Ponsard's \"Histoire des Théorie Économique Spatiales\". Particularly important was the contribution by 19th century German economists to location theory. The early German hegemony more or less starts with Johann Heinrich von Thünen and runs through both Wilhelm Launhardt and Alfred Weber to Walter Christaller and August Lösch.\n\nIf an academic discipline is identified by its journals, then technically regional science began in 1955 with the publication of the first volume of the \"Papers and Proceedings, Regional Science Association\" (now \"Papers in Regional Science\" published by Springer). In 1958, the \"Journal of Regional Science\" followed. Since the 1970s, the number of journals serving the field has exploded. The RSAI website displays most of them.\n\nMost recently the journal \"Spatial Economic Analysis\" has been published by the RSAI British and Irish Section with the \"Regional Studies Association\". The latter is a separate and growing organisation involving economists, planners, geographers, political scientists, management academics, policymakers, and practitioners.\n\nWalter Isard's efforts culminated in the creation of a few academic departments and several university-wide programs in regional science. At Walter Isard's suggestion, the University of Pennsylvania started the Regional Science Department in 1956. It featured as its first graduate William Alonso and was looked upon by many to be the international academic leader for the field. Another important graduate and faculty member of the department is Masahisa Fujita. The core curriculum of this department was microeconomics, input-output analysis, location theory, and statistics. Faculty also taught courses in mathematical programming, transportation economics, labor economics, energy and ecological policy modeling, spatial statistics, spatial interaction theory and models, benefit/cost analysis, urban and regional analysis, and economic development theory, among others. But the department's unusual multidisciplinary orientation undoubtedly encouraged its demise, and it lost its department status in 1993.\n\nWith a few exceptions, such as Cornell University, which awards graduate degrees in Regional Science, most practitioners hold positions in departments such as economics, geography, civil engineering, agricultural economics, rural sociology, urban planning, public policy, or demography. The diversity of disciplines participating in regional science have helped make it one of the most interesting and fruitful fields of academic specialization, but it has also made it difficult to fit the many perspectives into a curriculum for an academic major. It is even difficult for authors to write regional science textbooks, since what is elementary knowledge for one discipline might be entirely novel for another.\n\nPart of the movement was, and continues to be, associated with the political and economic realities of the role of the local community. On any occasion where public policy is directed at the sub-national level, such as a city or group of counties, the methods of regional science can prove useful. Traditionally, regional science has provided policymakers with guidance on the following issues:\n\nBy targeting federal resources to specific geographic areas the Kennedy administration realized that political favors could be bought. This is also evident in Europe and other places where local economic areas do not coincide with political boundaries. In the more current era of devolution knowledge about \"local solutions to local problems\" has driven much of the interest in regional science. Thus, there has been much political impetus to the growth of the discipline.\n\nRegional science has enjoyed mixed fortunes since the 1980s. While it has gained a larger following among economists and public policy practitioners, the discipline has fallen out of favor among more radical and post-modernist geographers. In an apparent effort to secure a larger share of research funds, geographers had the National Science Foundation's Geography and Regional Science Program renamed \"Geography and Spatial Sciences\".\n\nIn 1991, Paul Krugman, as a highly regarded international trade theorist, put out a call for economists to pay more attention to economic geography in a book entitled \"Geography and Trade\", focusing largely on the core regional science concept of agglomeration economies. Krugman's call renewed interest by economists in regional science and, perhaps more importantly, founded what some term the \"new economic geography\", which enjoys much common ground with regional science. Broadly trained \"new economic geographers\" combine quantitative work with other research techniques, for example at the London School of Economics. The unification of Europe and the increased internationalization of the world's economic, social, and political realms has further induced interest in the study of regional, as opposed to national, phenomena. The new economic geography appears to have garnered more interest in Europe than in America where amenities, notably climate, have been found to better predict human location and re-location patterns, as emphasized in recent work by Mark Partridge. In 2008 Krugman won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences and his Prize Lecture has references both to work in regional science's location theory as well as economic's trade theory.\n\nToday there are dwindling numbers of regional scientists from academic planning programs and mainstream geography departments. Attacks on regional science's practitioners by radical critics began as early as the 1970s, notably David Harvey who believed it lacked social and political commitment. Regional science's founder, Walter Isard, never envisioned regional scientists would be political or planning activists. In fact, he suggested that they will seek to be sitting in front of a computer and surrounded by research assistants. Trevor J. Barnes suggests the decline of regional science practice among planners and geographers in North America could have been avoided. He says \"It is unreflective, and consequently inured to change, because of a commitment to a God’s eye view. It is so convinced of its own rightness, of its Archimedean position, that it remained aloof and invariant, rather than being sensitive to its changing local context.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "7621278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7621278", "title": "Scientific Memoirs", "text": "Scientific Memoirs\n\n\"Scientific Memoirs, Selected from the Transactions of Foreign Academies of science and Learned Societies and from Foreign Journals\" was a series of books edited and published by Richard Taylor (1781–1858) in London between 1837 and 1852.\n\nAfter 1852 the publication continued in two series:\n\nThe September 1843 edition contained Ada Lovelace's notes appended to her translation of Luigi Federico Menabrea's article, originally published in 1842 in French in the Swiss Journal Bibliothèque universelle de Genève, based on Charles Babbage's lectures on his Analytical Engine, given in Turin, Italy, in 1840.\n\nSome volumes have been reprinted by Johnson Reprint Corp. New York in 1966.\n\n"}
{"id": "48311968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48311968", "title": "Solomon Four Group Design", "text": "Solomon Four Group Design\n\nThe Solomon Four Group Design is a research method that is sometimes used in social science, psychology and medicine. It can be used if there are concerns that the treatment might be sensitized by the pre-test. The four groups have four different experiences:\n\nThe effectiveness of the treatment can be evaluated by comparisons between groups 1 and 2 and between groups 3 and 4.\n"}
{"id": "23437949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23437949", "title": "Soyuz-B", "text": "Soyuz-B\n\nSoyuz-B ( meaning Union-B) or Soyuz 9K () was a proposed Soviet spacecraft, which was designed for use as an orbital tug. A number of applications were proposed for it, including use as part of the Soyuz A-B-V complex for manned circumlunar spaceflight.\n\nThe Soyuz 9K was intended to have been launched into low Earth orbit by the Soyuz 11A511 carrier rocket. Following launch, it would have been refuelled by up to three Soyuz-V tankers, before commencing its mission. It was primarily intended for use in boosting manned Soyuz 7K and Soyuz-P spacecraft into higher orbits; the Soyuz-A onto a circumlunar trajectory for manned Lunar exploration, and the Soyuz-P into a higher orbit to intercept and destroy another spacecraft.\n\nThe Soyuz 9K consisted of two modules: the main spacecraft, and a docking module, NO (). The NO module housed rendezvous and docking systems for the Soyuz-V, as well as equipment for transferring fuel, and additional manoeuvring thrusters. Once the payload spacecraft had docked, the NO would be jettisoned, and the main engine would ignite to propel the Soyuz 9K and its docked payload into a higher orbit.\n\nFollowing the cancellation of both the Soyuz 7K and P programmes; the former in favour of the LK-1 spacecraft, and the latter in favour of unmanned anti-satellite programmes, the Soyuz 9K was no longer required, and it too was cancelled.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6840173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6840173", "title": "Steven A. Leadon", "text": "Steven A. Leadon\n\nSteven A. (Tony) Leadon is a former professor of radiation oncology at the University of North Carolina.\n\nIn 2003, a university found that Leadon had fabricated and falsified data in his research on DNA repair. In 2006, the United States Office of Research Integrity came to the same conclusion, saying that \"Leadon engaged in scientific misconduct by falsifying DNA samples and constructing falsified figures for experiments done in his laboratory to support claimed findings of defects in a DNA repair process that involved rapid repair of DNA damage in the transcribed strand of active genes, included in four grant applications and in eight publications and one published manuscript\". \n\nIn the wake of the investigations, papers have been retracted from several journals including \"Science\" and \"Mutation Research\", while more articles were partially retracted from journals including \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" and \"Molecular and Cellular Biology\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28966352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28966352", "title": "Sustainability and environmental management", "text": "Sustainability and environmental management\n\nAt the global scale sustainability and environmental management involves managing the oceans, freshwater systems, land and atmosphere, according to sustainability principles.\n\nLand use change is fundamental to the operations of the biosphere because alterations in the relative proportions of land dedicated to urbanisation, agriculture, forest, woodland, grassland and pasture have a marked effect on the global water, carbon and nitrogen biogeochemical cycles. Management of the Earth's atmosphere involves assessment of all aspects of the carbon cycle to identify opportunities to address human-induced climate change and this has become a major focus of scientific research because of the potential catastrophic effects on biodiversity and human communities. Ocean circulation patterns have a strong influence on climate and weather and, in turn, the food supply of both humans and other organisms.\n\nIn March 2009 at a meeting of the Copenhagen Climate Council 2,500 climate experts from 80 countries issued a keynote statement that there is now \"no excuse\" for failing to act on global warming and that without strong carbon reduction targets \"abrupt or irreversible\" shifts in climate may occur that \"will be very difficult for contemporary societies to cope with\". Management of the global atmosphere now involves assessment of all aspects of the carbon cycle to identify opportunities to address human-induced climate change and this has become a major focus of scientific research because of the potential catastrophic effects on biodiversity and human communities.\n\nOther human impacts on the atmosphere include the air pollution in cities, the pollutants including toxic chemicals like nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides, volatile organic compounds and airborne particulate matter that produce photochemical smog and acid rain, and the chlorofluorocarbons that degrade the ozone layer. Anthropogenic particulates such as sulfate aerosols in the atmosphere reduce the direct irradiance and reflectance (albedo) of the Earth's surface. Known as global dimming the decrease is estimated to have been about 4% between 1960 and 1990 although the trend has subsequently reversed. Global dimming may have disturbed the global water cycle by reducing evaporation and rainfall in some areas. It also creates a cooling effect and this may have partially masked the effect of greenhouse gases on global warming.\n\n Ocean circulation patterns have a strong influence on climate and weather and, in turn, the food supply of both humans and other organisms. Scientists have warned of the possibility, under the influence of climate change, of a sudden alteration in circulation patterns of ocean currents that could drastically alter the climate in some regions of the globe. Major human environmental impacts occur in the more habitable regions of the ocean fringes – the estuaries, coastline and bays. Ten per cent of the world's population – about 600 million people – live in low-lying areas vulnerable to sea level rise. Trends of concern that require management include: over-fishing (beyond sustainable levels); coral bleaching due to ocean warming and ocean acidification due to increasing levels of dissolved carbon dioxide; and sea level rise due to climate change. Because of their vastness oceans also act as a convenient dumping ground for human waste. Remedial strategies include: more careful waste management, statutory control of overfishing by adoption of sustainable fishing practices and the use of environmentally sensitive and sustainable aquaculture and fish farming, reduction of fossil fuel emissions and restoration of coastal and other marine habitat.\n\nWater covers 71% of the Earth's surface. Of this, 97.5% is the salty water of the oceans and only 2.5% freshwater, most of which is locked up in the Antarctic ice sheet. The remaining freshwater is found in lakes, rivers, wetlands, the soil, aquifers and atmosphere. All life depends on the solar-powered global water cycle, the evaporation from oceans and land to form water vapour that later condenses from clouds as rain, which then becomes the renewable part of the freshwater supply. Awareness of the global importance of preserving water for ecosystem services has only recently emerged as, during the 20th century, more than half the world’s wetlands have been lost along with their valuable environmental services. Biodiversity-rich freshwater ecosystems are currently declining faster than marine or land ecosystems making them the world's most vulnerable habitats. Increasing urbanization pollutes clean water supplies and much of the world still does not have access to clean, safe water. In the industrial world demand management has slowed absolute usage rates but increasingly water is being transported over vast distances from water-rich natural areas to population-dense urban areas and energy-hungry desalination is becoming more widely used. Greater emphasis is now being placed on the improved management of blue (harvestable) and green (soil water available for plant use) water, and this applies at all scales of water management.\n\nLoss of biodiversity stems largely from the habitat loss and fragmentation produced by the human appropriation of land for development, forestry and agriculture as natural capital is progressively converted to man-made capital. Land use change is fundamental to the operations of the biosphere because alterations in the relative proportions of land dedicated to urbanisation, agriculture, forest, woodland, grassland and pasture have a marked effect on the global water, carbon and nitrogen biogeochemical cycles and this can impact negatively on both natural and human systems. At the local human scale major sustainability benefits accrue from the pursuit of green cities and sustainable parks and gardens.\n\nSince the Neolithic Revolution, human use has reduced the world’s forest cover by about 47%. Present-day forests occupy about a quarter of the world’s ice-free land with about half of these occurring in the tropics In temperate and boreal regions forest area is gradually increasing (with the exception of Siberia), but deforestation in the tropics is of major concern.\n\nForests moderate the local climate and the global water cycle through their light reflectance (albedo) and evapotranspiration. They also conserve biodiversity, protect water quality, preserve soil and soil quality, provide fuel and pharmaceuticals, and purify the air. These free ecosystem services are not given a market value under most current economic systems, and so forest conservation has little appeal when compared with the economic benefits of logging and clearance which, through soil degradation and organic decomposition returns carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates that about 90% of the carbon stored in land vegetation is locked up in trees and that they sequester about 50% more carbon than is present in the atmosphere. Changes in land use currently contribute about 20% of total global carbon emissions (heavily logged Indonesia and Brazil are a major source of emissions). Climate change can be mitigated by sequestering carbon in reafforestation schemes, plantations and timber products. Also wood biomass can be utilized as a renewable carbon-neutral fuel. The FAO has suggested that, over the period 2005–2050, effective use of tree planting could absorb about 10–20% of man-made emissions – so monitoring the condition of the world's forests must be part of a global strategy to mitigate emissions and protect ecosystem services. However, climate change may pre-empt this FAO scenario as a study by the International Union of Forest Research Organizations in 2009 concluded that the stress of a 2.5C (4.5F) temperature rise above pre-industrial levels could result in the release of vast amounts of carbon so the potential of forests to act as carbon \"sinks\" is \"at risk of being lost entirely\".\n\nFeeding more than six billion human bodies takes a heavy toll on the Earth’s resources. This begins with the appropriation of about 38% of the Earth’s land surface and about 20% of its net primary productivity. Added to this are the resource-hungry activities of industrial agribusiness – everything from the crop need for irrigation water, synthetic fertilizers and pesticides to the resource costs of food packaging, transport (now a major part of global trade) and retail. Food is essential to life. But the list of environmental costs of food production is a long one: topsoil depletion, erosion and conversion to desert from constant tillage of annual crops; overgrazing; salinization; sodification; waterlogging; high levels of fossil fuel use; reliance on inorganic fertilisers and synthetic organic pesticides; reductions in genetic diversity by the mass use of monocultures; water resource depletion; pollution of waterbodies by run-off and groundwater contamination; social problems including the decline of family farms and weakening of rural communities.\n\nAll of these environmental problems associated with industrial agriculture and agribusiness are now being addressed through such movements as sustainable agriculture, organic farming and more sustainable business practices.\n\nAlthough biodiversity loss can be monitored simply as loss of species, effective conservation demands the protection of species within their natural habitats and ecosystems. Following human migration and population growth, species extinctions have progressively increased to a rate unprecedented since the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. Known as the Holocene extinction event this current human-induced extinction of species ranks as one of the worlds six mass extinction events. Some scientific estimates indicate that up to half of presently existing species may become extinct by 2100. Current extinction rates are 100 to 1000 times their prehuman levels with more than 10% birds and mammals threatened, about 8% of plants, 5% of fish and more than 20% of freshwater species.\n\nThe 2008 IUCN Red List warns that long-term droughts and extreme weather put additional stress on key habitats and, for example, lists 1,226 bird species as threatened with extinction, which is one-in-eight of all bird species. The Red List Index also identifies 44 tree species in Central Asia as under threat of extinction due to over-exploitation and human development and threatening the region's forests which are home to more than 300 wild ancestors of modern domesticated fruit and nut cultivars.\n\nIn many parts of the industrial world land clearing for agriculture has diminished and here the greatest threat to biodiversity, after climate change, has become the destructive effect of invasive species. Increasingly efficient global transport has facilitated the spread of organisms across the planet. The potential danger of this aspect of globalization is starkly illustrated through the spread of human diseases like HIV AIDS, mad cow disease, bird flu and swine flu, but invasive plants and animals are also having a devastating impact on native biodiversity. Non-indigenous organisms can quickly occupy disturbed land and natural areas where, in the absence of their natural predators, they are able to thrive. At the global scale this issue is being addressed through the Global Invasive Species Information Network but there is improved international biosecurity legislation to minimise the transmission of pathogens and invasive organisms. Also, through CITES legislation there is control the trade in rare and threatened species. Increasingly at the local level public awareness programs are alerting communities, gardeners, the nursery industry, collectors, and the pet and aquarium industries, to the harmful effects of potentially invasive species.\n\nThe environmental sustainability problem has proven difficult to solve. The modern environmental movement has attempted to solve the problem in a large variety of ways. But little progress has been made, as shown by severe ecological footprint overshoot and lack of sufficient progress on the climate change problem. Something within the human system in preventing change to a sustainable mode of behavior. That system trait is systemic change resistance. Change resistance is also known as organizational resistance, barriers to change, or policy resistance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30876758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876758", "title": "Søren Abildgaard", "text": "Søren Abildgaard\n\nSøren Pedersen Abildgaard (18 February 1718 – 2 July 1791) was a Danish naturalist, writer and illustrator. He was born in Flekkefjord in Norway and died in Copenhagen in Denmark.\n\nAbildgaard traveled throughout Denmark in order to create drawings of its tombstones, runes and other historic monuments. In 1753–54 he was an illustrator and painter on historian Jacob Langebek's tour to Sweden and the Baltic provinces. He is also remembered for his studies of topographical and geological conditions and phenomena. \n\nFrom 1755 to 1778 he worked as a master draftsman at the Royal \"Gehejmearkivet\" in Copenhagen. His drawings are presently kept at the National Museum of Denmark and at the Frederiksborg Museum in Hillerød and are regarded as important sources for antiquarian research. \n\nHe was married to Anne Margrethe Bastholm, and had two sons, Nicolai Abraham Abildgaard (1744–1809) and Peter Christian Abildgaard (1740–1801).\n\nIn 1759 he published the first geological account of the chert and fossil bearing chalk beds at Stevns Klint on the Danish island of Zealand, \"Beskrivelse over Stevens Klint og dens naturlige Mærkværdigheder\". His other works include \"Physisk-mineralogisk Beskrivelse over Möens klint\" (Physical and mineralogical description of Møns Klint; 1781) and a treatise on peat, titled \"Afhandling om Tørv\" (1765).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "581417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581417", "title": "Table of standard reduction potentials for half-reactions important in biochemistry", "text": "Table of standard reduction potentials for half-reactions important in biochemistry\n\nThe values below are standard reduction potentials for half-reactions measured at 25°C, 1 atmosphere and a pH of 7 in aqueous solution.\n"}
{"id": "44080609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44080609", "title": "The Innovators (book)", "text": "The Innovators (book)\n\nThe Innovators: How a Group of Hackers, Geniuses, and Geeks Created the Digital Revolution is an overview of the history of computer science and the Digital Revolution. It was written by Walter Isaacson, and published in 2014 by Simon & Schuster.\n\nThe book summarizes the contributions of several innovators who have made pivotal breakthroughs in computer technology and its applications—from the world's first computer programmer, Ada Lovelace, and Alan Turing's work in artificial intelligence, through the Information Age of the present. Although his book's focus is on individuals, Isaacson reminds readers that innovations are often the product of group collaboration.\n\nInnovators discussed in the book include Charles Babbage, Ada Lovelace, Vannevar Bush, Alan Turing, Grace Hopper, John Mauchly, John von Neumann, J. C. R. Licklider, Doug Engelbart, Robert Noyce of Intel, Bill Gates and Paul Allen of Microsoft, Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs of Apple, Tim Berners-Lee, Larry Page of Google, Jimmy Wales of Wikipedia, and Lee Felsenstein of Osborne.\n\nIn December 2015, Simon & Schuster published a revised electronic edition of \"The Innovators\", which corrected significant errors and omissions in the original edition’s Chapter 9, which covers Software. Isaacson – who in researching the book interviewed Bill Gates but not Paul Allen – had erroneously assigned virtually all credit for the company’s early innovations and success to Gates, when in fact they were the product of highly collaborative efforts by several people, including Allen. In the revised edition, among other edits, Isaacson includes archival material from 1981 in which Gates credits Allen for being the “idea man” in charge of R&D at Microsoft, while he, Gates, was “the front man running the business.”\n\n"}
{"id": "147409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147409", "title": "The Radiation Belt and Magnetosphere", "text": "The Radiation Belt and Magnetosphere\n\nThe Radiation Belt and Magnetosphere is a book written by Wilmot Hess in 1968. The intention of the book is to amalgamate and sift through some 2500 articles, written since 1960, on this topic.\n\n"}
{"id": "29282822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29282822", "title": "UDFy-38135539", "text": "UDFy-38135539\n\nUDFy-38135539 (also known as \"HUDF.YD3\") is the Hubble Ultra Deep Field (UDF) identifier for a galaxy which was calculated to have a light travel time of 13.1 billion years with a present proper distance of around 30 billion light-years.\n\nIt was discovered by three teams in September 2009 in sensitive infrared Hubble Space Telescope images and identified by these as source UDF-38135539 (R Bouwens \"et al.\",) source HUDF.YD3 (A Bunker \"et al.\") and source 1721 (R McLure \"et al.\"), and additionally reported in the \"Astrophysical Journal\", and the \"Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society\". All teams independently identified the source likely an extremely distant galaxy because there was no measurable light at visible wavelengths (caused by absorption of hydrogen gas along the line of sight). Following the discovery of this candidate distant galaxy, another team targeted this object with ground-based spectroscopy to confirm the distance, reporting a redshift z=8.6.\nHowever, attempts to replicate this observation strongly suggest the original claim was in error, meaning that at the present time the galaxy only has a photometric redshift estimate.\n\nIts first known imaging was in Hubble telescope's Hubble Ultra Deep Field, the most detailed deep space picture at that time. The galaxy was observed in August and September 2009. The image data was released to the scientific community, which led to the galaxy's detection by the teams of Bouwens, Bunker and McLure, and subsequent spectroscopic campaign by the team of Lehnert and colleagues.\n\nJust on Hubble data, the galaxy could be an object intrinsically red and relatively close to Earth, therefore, confirmation using suitably sensitive spectroscopic equipment was needed. This was attempted using the European Southern Observatory's SINFONI-equipped Very Large Telescope unit Yepun, located atop Cerro Paranal in Chile's Atacama Desert. Lehnert's team observed the galaxy for 16 hours, and then analysed their results over 2 months, and published their findings in \"Nature\", in October 2010. \nSince then, more sensitive measurements have failed to replicate the result, suggesting the spectroscopic claim was in error.\n\nThe galaxy is located in the constellation Fornax, and is estimated to have contained roughly a billion stars, although it was only at most one tenth of the diameter of our own galaxy, the Milky Way, and had less than 1% of the mass of the Milky Way's stars. According to Lehnert (of the Observatoire de Paris), it was forming the same number of stars per year as our galaxy, but they were much smaller and less massive, making it \"intensely star forming\".\n\nThe light travel distance of the light that we observe from UDFy-38135539 (HUF.YD3) is more than 4 billion parsecs (13.1 billion light years), and it has a luminosity distance of 86.9 billion parsecs (about 283 billion light years). There are a number of different distance measures in cosmology, and both \"light travel distance\" and \"luminosity distance\" are different from the comoving distance or \"proper distance\" generally used in defining the size of the observable universe (comoving distance and proper distance are defined to be equal at the present cosmological time, so they can be used interchangeably when talking about the distance to an object at present, but proper distance increases with time due to the expansion of the universe, and is the distance used in Hubble's law; \"see\" Uses of the proper distance for more on the physical meaning of this notion of 'distance'). The luminosity distance \"D\" is related to a factor called the \"comoving transverse distance\" \"D\" by the equation , where \"z\" is the redshift, and the comoving transverse distance is itself equal to the radial comoving distance (i.e., comoving distance between an object and ourselves) in a spatially flat universe. So with and , the comoving distance would be about 9.1 billion parsecs (about 30 billion light years).\n\nThe infrared light that we now observe from the galaxy was emitted as ultraviolet radiation toward the end of an era when the universe was filled with atomic hydrogen, which absorbed at ultraviolet wavelengths. Because the galaxy's own light alone would not have been intense enough to ionize a large region and render it transparent, scientists suspect that a population of smaller, undetected galaxies, contributed to the reionization making UDFy-38135539 visible.\n\nThe period of universal star birth was the reionization epoch. The universe's first stars were massive, \nionizing hydrogen in the surrounding environment (\"Trenti\").\n\nUDFy-38135539 (HUDF.YD3) is thought to be one of the first galaxies observed in the reionization epoch. Caltech astronomer Brant Robertson, commenting on the study, stated that the \"galaxy happens to reside at a very special time in cosmic history when the properties of gas in the universe were changing rapidly, and therefore this galaxy and others like it may teach us a lot about the early history of the universe\". Michele Trenti, an astronomer who was not involved in the study but provided commentary published with the report, says that the discovery of the distant galaxy represents a \n\nScientists hope to find older galaxies; however, closer to the Big Bang, fewer exist and they are dimmer on average. They will therefore be increasingly difficult to find, since they would be very faint with fewer observable stars. Trenti says that new \"most distant\" record holders will soon be announced, but only incremental distance gains will be realized until NASA's James Webb Space Telescope becomes operational in 2021.\n\nThe James Webb telescope should be able to detect galaxies more than 13.4 billion light years away, less than 300 million years after the Big Bang. Bremer states that it, and eventually the European Extremely Large Telescope, which will have a mirror five times the diameter of Yepun's, and is tentatively scheduled for first light in 2024, will enable more detailed study of galaxies at such great distances. Lehnert states that this discovery is not \"the limit, perhaps not even that close to it\".\n\nAt that time, Trenti said redshift 8.6 would likely to be as high as we can reach with the current generation of Earth-bound telescopes, but that with Hubble, \"it might be possible to find some galaxies up to redshift 10\". Candidates with higher redshifts than UDFy-38135539's have been reported subsequently, but not yet confirmed with light spectrum instruments., for example UDFj-39546284 and MACS0647-JD.\n\nOther known most distant objects\n"}
{"id": "29609279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29609279", "title": "Wang Yaping", "text": "Wang Yaping\n\nColonel Wang Yaping (born January 27, 1980) is a Chinese military pilot and astronaut. Wang was the second female astronaut to be named by the CNSA, and the second Chinese woman in space.\n\nWang was a captain in the People's Liberation Army Air Force.\n\nShe was a candidate for the space mission Shenzhou 9 in 2012. However, Liu Yang was selected over her for the historic mission of the first Chinese female space traveller. Wang was a member of the backup crew for SZ-9.\n\nWang became the second Chinese female astronaut as a member of the Shenzhou 10 spaceship crew, which orbited the earth in June 2013, and of the Tiangong-1 orbiting space station with which it docked. She was the first member of the crew announced, in April, while the remainder of the crew were announced in June. Wang Yaping was one of two women in space on the 50th anniversary of Vostok 6, the first spaceflight by a woman, Valentina Tereshkova. The other woman in space on 16 June 2013 was Karen Nyberg, an American astronaut aboard the International Space Station. While aboard Tiangong-1, Wang conducted scientific experiments and taught a physics lesson to Chinese students by live television broadcast.\n\nAccording to the official Shenzhou 10 report, Wang Yaping's birth date is stated as January 1980, which is incongruent with that of the Shenzhou 9 report. In the previous report, her birth date was April 1978.\n\nWang is married, which one former official claimed is required for all women who are part of the Chinese space program due to concerns that spaceflight could potentially harm women's fertility. However, this requirement has been officially denied by the director of the China Astronaut Centre, stating that this is a preference but not a strict limitation.\n\n\n"}
