{"id": "52049646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52049646", "title": "Access to public information in Europe", "text": "Access to public information in Europe\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right to access information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right to access public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law. Access to public information builds on the principle that in a democratic system people should be in the condition of accessing a wide range of information in order to effectively participate in public life as well as on matters affecting them.\n\nThe right of access to public information is a component of the fundamental right of freedom of expression set forth by Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) which states that the fundamental right of freedom of expression encompasses the freedom \"to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers\". Access to public information and freedom of information are recognised as human rights in the three main regional systems of human rights, namely within the Americas, Europe and Africa, as well as in major international instruments.\n\nThe right to access information places two obligations on public bodies. First, the proactive duty to make public key information on the activities of authorities and governments; second, the reactive obligation to respond to people's requests for information, either by releasing public original documents or copies of the documents held.\n\nOver the past 10 years, the right to information and access to public information has been recognised in an increasing number of countries and several FOI laws have been adopted all over the world, including in the developing countries. If in 1990 only 13 countries had a national freedom of information law, today there are 100 such laws across the world.\n\nIn 2015 The UNESCO General Conference voted to designate Sept. 28 as \"International Day for the Universal Access to Information\" or, as it is more commonly known, Access to Information Day. The date had previously been celebrated as \"Right to Know Day\" since 2002. The UNESCO resolution recommends approval by the UN General Assembly.\n\nThe right to access information builds on the principle that the public has a right to know how power is exercised and public money is spent, given that public bodies are elected by people and sustained by taxpayers. The access to public information is a precondition for governments' and public officials' accountability and it enables the adoption of informed decisions by citizens, hence representing a fundamental element for the proper functioning of democratic systems. International standards and evolving jurisprudence have confirmed that information held by public bodies belong to the public. The Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents (2009) states that \"all official documents are in principle public and can be withheld subject only to the protection of other rights and legitimate interests\".\n\nMore than 100 countries around the world have now adopted national access to information laws to make the right to know effective. The first law on access to public information was adopted in Sweden in 1766, but after that one should wait almost one century to have the second law approved in Finland in 1951 and in the United States in 1966. During the 1970s and 1980s there has been a small but constant growth in FOI's laws, with a real expansion after 1989 due to the activism of civil society groups in Central and Eastern Europe during the post-Communist transitions to democracy. Indeed, the big push forward in the field of access to information leading to the broadening of the definition and of the scope of the right of access to information came together with a coordinated civil society reaction to contrast the control over the information exercised by Communist regimes in the Soviet bloc. It was this movement which gave a sound contribution to the development of access to information as a right in the sense of a human right. A 1992 decision of the Hungary's Constitutional Court established that access to information is a \"fundamental right\" essential for citizen oversight on the lawfulness and efficiency of the government. Moreover, environmentalist groups and consumer associations also contributed to the affirmation of the right to know.\n\nAll the eight former communists countries which joined the European Union in 2004 had a freedom of information law; also Romania and Bulgaria had their own law when joined the EU in 2007 and Croatia had already had an access to information law in force for ten years when it joined the EU in 2013.\n\nNowadays, in the OSCE region 48 of the 56 member states have specific access to information laws.\n\nThe right to access information places two obligations on governments and public bodies. First, the duty to make public key information on the activities implemented by public bodies; second, the obligation to respond to people's requests of accessing documents, either by making available the original documents or by sharing copies of documents and information held.\n\nAccess to information is a right which comprises two parts. The first is a proactive component, namely the positive obligation of public bodies to provide, make public and disseminate information about their activities, budgets and policies so that citizens can understand what public bodies are doing, can participate in public life and can monitor the behaviour of public authorities. The second component is a reactive one, entailing the right of all persons to requests information and documents to public bodies, along with the right to receive an answer. In principle, all the main information held by public bodies should be available, while exceptions to disclosure should be grounded on the protection of other values, such as privacy, national security or commercial interests.\n\nOn the occasion of the first officially recognised Access to Information Day celebrated on 28 September 2016, European civil society groups working to enhance the right of access to public information raised some concerns as, despite significant progress, there are still far-reaching shortcomings especially with regard to transparency of decision-making. According to such organisations, among the main obstacles to government openness there is the inadequate record keeping of public bodies’ information: minutes of public officials’ meetings are not recorded, exchange with lobbyists are not available, public decisions are adopted without proper justification or documented evidence available to the public. An additional problem concerns the over-application of exceptions with particular regard to the use of the privacy reasons, applied to not disclose the activities of public officials when performing public functions. Moreover, European civil society organisations are particularly concerned for the lack of transparency around the decision-making process at both national and EU level, as in the case of the refusal by the EU to disclose documents on the EU-Turkey refugee deal.\n\nA big push forward the advancement of the right to access information as a fundamental right was due to the activism of civil society movements which contrasted the regimes' control over information in the Communist countries in the Soviet bloc. A fundamental document in this sense is a 1992's decision of the Hungarian Constitutional Court which established that access to information is a \"fundamental right\" essential for citizen oversight on the lawfulness and efficiency of the government.\n\nProgressively, several national and international courts decisions have been treating access to information as a basic human right, thus providing a strong legal case for citizens resorting to courts to defend any refusals by authorities to provide access to public information. Such decisions are grounded on a series of international declarations, human rights covenants and conventions at international, regional and EU levels. In the first place, the right to access public information is recognised as a fundamental right and as a component of the right of freedom of expression in the Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; in the Article 19 of the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights; and in the Article 13 of the American Convention on Human Rights. At regional level, all the three main regional systems of human rights, namely within the Americas, Europe and Africa, have recognised freedom of information as a universal human right. In July 2011, the United Nations Human Rights Committee confirmed that the right to freedom of expression enshrined in Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights includes the right of access public information.\n\nAt the European Union level, Article 42 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights establishes the right of access to EU institutions documents, as recognised also by Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (\"Treaty of Lisbon\"). In 2009, the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is the article on freedom of expression, acknowledged the fundamental right of access to information held by public bodies. Specifically, the Court established that the right to information is protected in particular in case of \"information monopoly\", namely when the public bodies are the only ones owning the requested information, and when the information is needed by media or civil society organisations for public accountability purposes. The decision of the European Court embraced a 2006 decision by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights which endorsed Article 13 of the American Human Rights convention stating that individuals have the right to request information to public authorities and public authorities have the positive obligation to provide such information.\n\nFinally, many countries across the world recognise the right to information or access to documents in their Constitutions, either within the frame of the right to freedom of expression or separately and specifically as the right of access to information or documents. At least 50 countries all over the world, including 29 OSCE countries, have Constitutions including such provisions .\n\nTransparency enhanced through the right to access public information entails a series of core benefits for democratic societies, in particular accountability, participation and efficiency. First, access to public information enhances public accountability as it contributes to make governments and public officials more accountable for their actions and decisions. Second, the right to know boost people participation as it makes available information that can help citizens to make more effective decisions on matters that directly affect their lives and to participate with informed opinions in public debates and in the decision-making process. Third, access to public information contributes to the efficiency of decision-making as disclosure encourages public institutions to better manage and organise information and may help to improve communication between public bodies. Also, access to information serve some other social goals. For instance, access to medical records can help individuals to improve personal decision-making and make better decisions about medical treatment, financial planning and the like. Finally, access to information can facilitate effective business practices as some of the information held by public bodies related to economic issues can be very useful for enterprises and can therefore contribute to increasing the effectiveness of the business sector.\n\nAt national level access to public information is regulated by freedom of information laws. In addition to national legislation, principles and standards for access to public information are set forth into several international declarations and treaties that have authoritatively recognised the fundamental and legal nature of the right to freedom of information along with the need for effective legislations that should guarantee the respect of that right in practice. Such international laws and standards include:\n\n\nThe non-governmental organisation ARTICLE 19 has published a set of principles called \"The Public's Right To Know: Principles on Freedom of Information Legislation\" which describes the best practices and standards on freedom of information legislation based on international and regional laws as well as on evolving national practices and legislations. Such principles, which are designed mainly for national laws, are also applicable to inter-governmental bodies such as the United Nations and the European Union.\n\nThe principle of maximum disclosure sets a presumption that all information held by public bodies should be covered by the scope of access to information laws. This presumption accepts only limited circumstances for exceptions. This principle incorporates the very basic rationale underpinning the concept of freedom of information. It entails that public authorities seeking to deny access to public information have the obligation to justifying their refusal. The principle of maximum disclosure provides for a broad definition of \"public bodies\" which are subject to the duty of releasing information. Such a broad interpretation includes all branches of government, e.g. local governments, elected bodies, nationalised industries and public corporations, judicial bodies and also private bodies carrying out public functions. Principle 1 requires the law to establish minimum standards regarding the maintenance and preservation of documents by public bodies.\n\nThis principle implies the obligation for public bodies to respond to access to information requests and to publish and disseminate documents of public interest. Few reasonable limits based, for instance, on resources and capacity can be accepted. As a minimum, public authorities should make public the following types of information:\n\nThis principle calls governments to actively promote a culture of openness in order to enhance the respect of the right to know. This is important as experiences in different countries have shown that recalcitrant public authorities can undermine the application of even the most progressive legislations. National laws should therefore allocate adequate resources to the promotion of an open government culture and the goals of FOI laws, including by means of internal codes on access and openness, educational programmes, media coverage and communications campaigns. Such activities should also be aimed at contrasting the culture of official secrecy within government for example through trainings for public officials. An important step in this direction has been adopted in 2011 with the establishment of a new global alliance of democratic countries committed to the promotion of transparency, accountability and participation under the label Open Government Partnership \n\nExceptions to disclosure should be grounded on clearly and narrowly defined exceptions. Public authorities should show that a refusal to provide the required information has passed a test through which to assess if the disclosure of a given information threaten to cause substantial harm to a legitimate aim and if the harm is greater than the public interest in having the information. Non-disclosure decisions should be taken on a case-by-case basis. National laws should provide an exhaustive list of the legitimate reasons that may justify non-disclosure. Such a list should be narrowly defined and include only highly relevant interests to be protected, such as law enforcement, privacy, national security, commercial and other confidentiality, public or individual safety and the integrity of the decision-making process. However, even if can be demonstrated that disclosure would cause substantial harm to a legitimate interest, the information should be released when the benefits of disclosure prevail over the harm. In other words, the harm to the legitimate interest must be weighed against the public interest in having a given information publicly available.\n\nAccording to this principle requests for public information should be processed quickly and fairly and an independent review of any refusals should be made available to the applicant. Also, public bodies are called to set up open, accessible systems for implementing freedom of information laws and thus ensuring the public's right to receive the required information. Furthermore, the law should establish an individual right to appeal to an independent body for any refusal by a public body to release information. All members of the public should be in the condition of accessing to appeal procedures without incurring in undue costs and complicated procedures.\n\nThis principle states that costs for accessing public information should not be so high as to deter applicants from making the request. Around the world there are different cost regimes, including, for instance, flat fees systems for each request and graduated fees depending on the actual cost of retrieving and reproducing the information and / or the documents requested.\n\nFreedom of information comprises the public's right to know how the government behaves on behalf of people and to participate to decision-making. Freedom of information law should thus incorporates the presumption that all relevant meetings of governing bodies, i.e. those involved in decision-making, should be open to the public. Meetings may be closed, but only when sound reasons for closure exist. Such reasons have to be clearly explained and closure have to comply to established procedures.\n\nOther laws dealing with publicly held information should be consistent with the principle of maximum disclosure and the other principles underpinning freedom of information. In particular, the regime of exceptions should be clearly defined in the freedom of information legislation; extensions of the exceptions regime should not be allowed by other laws.\n\nWhistleblowers, i.e. individuals who make publicly available information on government's wrongdoings - including for instance corruption, dishonesty, maladministration, serious threat to health, safety or the environment, etc. - should be protected from any legal, administrative or other kind of sanctions. In this context the public interest refers to situations where the benefit of disclosure prevails over the harm, no matter how the disclosure has been conducted. This applies in particular when there are exceptionally serious reasons for releasing a certain information, such as a serious threat to public health or safety, or when there is a strong evidence that wrongdoing will be concealed or destroyed.\n\nBeing a fundamental and universal right, in principle access to information is a right to everyone: almost all national freedom of information laws recognise this by establishing that \"anyone\" may make a request to access public information. One noteworthy exception among the world's democracies is Canada where only citizens and residents are entitled to submit access to information requests. Despite this, a major practical obstacle to the universal exercise of the right to access information is due to the obligation to submit the requests in the official language of the country which may hamper the exercise of the right to know for people that does not have a command of a country's official language.\n\nIn the EU, according to the treaties the right to access documents and the right to appeal to the European Ombudsman applies only to EU citizens, residents and companies registered inside the EU. While in general anyone whose right has been violated can appeal to the European Court of Justice, in the case of the right to access information the Court is obliged to accept cases made by EU citizens, residents and businesses.\n\nIn principle, all information held by public bodies can be accessed upon a FOI's request, unless some exceptions can be applied (e.g. on the ground of protecting state interests; private interests or human rights, or to ensure effective governments). Some national laws refer to \"access to information\" while others to \"access to documents\": even if these definitions actually overlap, it can be useful for the applicant to be aware of the exact phrasing used by the law in order to formulate properly the access to information request, and thus, having more chance of success. Usually \"documents\" and \"information\" should be made available whatever its medium, e.g. written on paper or in electronic format, or as a sound, visual or audiovisual. The EU Regulation 1049/2001 specifies that documents subject to access to information are those concerning \"policies, activities and decisions falling within the institutions’ sphere of responsibility\" and this applies to all documents held by the EU institutions \"in all areas of activity of the European Union\".\n\nIn general in Europe the right of access to information applies to all administrative bodies, at any level of government, from central government to local authorities. Some rare exceptions to this can be found, as in the case of Ireland where police forces are exempted. In addition to administrative bodies, in national legislations which have been progressively approved the obligation to disclose information has been extended also to legislative and judicial bodies. Moreover, in many countries also some private bodies performing public functions or receiving public funds are obliged to respond to access to information requests. For instance, in Macedonia which adopted an access to information law in 2006, the right to access applies to local and national governments, legislative bodies and judicial authorities, and encompasses also private bodies with public functions.\n\nMany inter-governmental bodies hold information about policies and decisions affecting people's lives. While the EU has defined a set of rules regulating access to information held by EU institutions, the debate is still open about whether the right of access information applies to inter-governmental organisations which are outside the scope of national laws and have not signed international human rights conventions. Campaigning organisations have worked for the adoption of internal rules - called \"disclosure policies\" or \"access to information policies\" - so that inter-governmental organisations could apply rules similar to national access to information laws. The World Bank adopted its Access to Information Policy in July 2010.\n\nAlthough in principles the right of access to information applies to all information held by public bodies, it is not an absolute right as there can be some exceptions not allowing the disclosure of certain kind of information. If released this information can violate some \"legitimate interests\", disturb public life or undermine other societal values. To justify the withhold of public information, authorities have the burden of the proof, thus have to demonstrate that disclosure would cause harm to a legitimate interest as specified by the law.\n\nInternational laws and standards in the field of access to public information provide for three categories of standard exceptions. Specifically,\n\nExceptions to protect state interests or international relations, such as:\n\nExceptions aimed at ensuring effective government:\n\nExceptions to protect private interests and human rights, such as:\n\nHowever, even if the requested information or documents are sensitive and exceptions apply, some part of it could be released by public bodies on the ground of two factors. The first is the right of partial access according to which authorities have the duty of removing sensitive information and release the rest of the document. The second \"exception to exceptions\" applies when transparency overrides secrecy, thus even if the information is sensitive the public interest in knowing it is stronger. In this particular case public officials have to apply the so-called \"public interest test\", meaning that they have to scrutinize and ponder both the exceptions for not releasing information and the reasons of public interest in knowing the information required. Many national access to information laws foresees this kind of test.\n\nApplicant have the right to appeal in case of \"administrative silence\" (i.e. the request is not answered), when public authorities reject the disclosure request or when their reply is not satisfying and does not meaningfully answer the question. Rules regulating the right to appeal depends on national legislations and vary from country to country. Generally, there are four main appeals mechanisms:\n\n\nRequests for accessing public information to the public authorities covered by the scope of national laws should be as clear and specific as possible about the information or documents required. A well-formulated request will facilitate the work of public officials and will more likely result in a positive answer or at least reducing the reasons for rejecting the request. Usually the name and address of the person filing the request have to be provided. Giving also the e-mail address as well as a phone number might facilitate the exchange with public officials. In some countries requests made by resorting to pseudonyms or anonymously are permitted.\n\nIn general, the procedure for requesting public information under national laws is simple and does not foresees many formalities. Usually requests can be filed in writing, either by post or hand-delivered to the concerned public authority. In most countries, submission is allowed also by e-mail. Moreover, some access to information laws permit oral requests, made, for instance, by phone or in person. However, in some cases, such as in Slovenia, oral request are not considered to be a formal basis for going to appeal. In some countries, such as in Armenia or Romania, rules and timeframes for written requests and oral requests are different.\n\nFiling a request for accessing public information should always be free of charge, as confirmed by the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents which allows only costs for copying and delivering the documents, such as photocopying, postage costs, or costs of reproduction into other formats or materials in case of DVDs or CDs. As a rule, electronic delivery is free of charge. The majority of countries in the Council of Europe region comply with this rule, even if there are notable exceptions, such as Ireland and Germany where, however, the required fees can be significantly reduced on the ground of public interest.\n\nIn reply of a formal request of accessing public information, the examination of the required information can be allowed in different ways, including the inspection of original documents; photocopies sent by post or e-mails; copies in DVDs or CDs.\n\nThere is a great variability across Europe on the timeframes for public authorities to answer requests as well as for notifying the extension of the timeframe for justified reasons or for issuing a refusal. However, the average time is about 15 working days. In Europe, the countries with the shortest timeframe for response are Norway and Sweden (1–3 days). On the contrary, the Albanian and Austrian access to information laws give the authorities a period of respectively 40 and 60 days to respond to people's requests. Most national laws allow the extension of the timeframe in case of requests which are particularly complex. In all cases such extension should be notified to the applicant, along with an explanation of the reasons that led to it. At the EU level, the Regulation 1049/2001 establishes 15 working days for issuing a response; an extension of up 15 additional working days may be applied in exceptional cases, for instance when the request relates to long documents or a large number of documents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59143773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59143773", "title": "Adhyāsa", "text": "Adhyāsa\n\nAdhyāsa is a Buddhist concept referring to the false superimposition of an attribute, quality, or characteristic onto an external entity. It can be seen as a direct result of māyā (illusion).\n"}
{"id": "28495100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28495100", "title": "Affective haptics", "text": "Affective haptics\n\nAffective haptics is the emerging area of research which focuses on the study and design of devices and systems that can elicit, enhance, or influence the emotional state of a human by means of sense of touch. The research field is originated with the Dzmitry Tsetserukou and Alena Neviarouskaya papers on affective haptics and real-time communication system with rich emotional and haptic channels. Driven by the motivation to enhance social interactivity and emotionally immersive experience of users of real-time messaging, virtual, augmented realities, the idea of reinforcing (intensifying) own feelings and reproducing (simulating) the emotions felt by the partner was proposed.\nFour basic haptic (tactile) channels governing our emotions can be distinguished: (1) physiological changes (e.g., heart beat rate, body temperature, etc.), (2) physical stimulation (e.g., tickling), (3) social touch (e.g., hug, handshake), (4) emotional haptic design (e.g., shape of device, material, texture).\n\nAccording to James-Lange theory, the conscious experience of emotion occurs after the cortex receives signals about changes in physiological state. Researchers argued that feelings are preceded by certain physiological changes. Thus, when we see a venomous snake, we feel fear, because our cortex has received signals about our racing heart, knocking knees, etc. Damasio distinguishes primary and secondary emotions. Both involve changes in bodily states, but the secondary emotions are evoked by thoughts. Recent empirical studies support non-cognitive theories of nature of emotions. It was proven that we can easily evoke our emotions by something as simple as changing facial expression (e.g., smile brings on a feeling of happiness).\n\nHuman emotions can be easily evoked by different cues, and the sense of touch is one of the most emotionally charged channels. Affective haptic devices produce different senses of touch including kinesthetic and coetaneous channels. Kinesthetic stimulations, which are produced by forces exerted on the body, are sensed by mechanoreceptors in the tendons and muscles. On the other hand, mechanoreceptors in the skin layers are responsible for the perception of cutaneous stimulation. Different types of tactile corpuscles allow us sensing thermal property of the object, pressure, vibration frequency, and stimuli location.\n\nOnline interactions rely heavily on vision and hearing, so a substantial need exists for mediated social touch. Of the forms of physical contact, hugging is particularly emotionally charged; it conveys warmth, love, and affiliation. Recently, researchers have made several attempts to create a hugging device providing some sense of physical co-presence over a distance. HaptiHug’s key feature is that it physically reproduces the human-hug pattern, generating pressure simultaneously on each user’s chest and back. The idea to realistically reproduce hugging is in integration of active-haptic device HaptiHug and pseudo-haptic touch simulated by hugging animation. Thus, high immersion into the physical contact of partners while hugging is achieved.\n\nAffection goes further than hugging alone. People in long distance relationships are faced with a lack of physical intimacy on a day-to-day basis. Haptic technology allows for kinesthetic and tactile interface design. The field of digital co-presence envelops Teledildonics as well. The Kiiroo SVir is a good example of an Adult CyberToy that incorporates tactile input, by means of a surface that is touch capacitive, and an inside that is kinesthetic in nature. 12 rings contract, pulse and vibrate according to the movements one's partner makes in real time. The SVir mimics the actual motion of its OPue counterpart and is also compatible with other SVir models.\nThe SVir enables women to have intercourse with their partner through use of the OPue interactive vibrator no matter how great the distance that separates the couple.\n\nDifferent types of devices can be used to produce the physiological changes. Of the bodily organs, the heart plays a particularly important role in our emotional experience. The heart imitator HaptiHeart produces special heartbeat patterns according to emotion to be conveyed or elicited (sadness is associated with slightly intense heartbeat, anger with quick and violent heartbeat, fear with intense heart rate). False heart beat feedback can be directly interpreted as a real heart beat, so it can change the emotional perception. HaptiButterfly reproduces “butterflies in your stomach” (the fluttery or tickling feeling felt by people experiencing love) through arrays of vibration motors attached to the user’s abdomen. HaptiShiver sends “shivers up and down your spine” through a row of vibration motors. HaptiTemper sends “chills up and down your spine” through both cold airflow from a fan and the cold side of a Peltier element. HaptiTemper is also intended for simulation of warmth on the human skin to evoke either pleasant feeling or aggression\n\nHaptiTickler directly evokes joy by tickling the user’s ribs. It includes four vibration motors reproducing stimuli similar to human finger movements\n\nRecent findings show that attractive things make people feel good, which in turn makes them think more creatively. The concept of emotional haptic design was proposed. The core idea is to make user to feel an affinity for the device through:\n\nAffective computing can be used to measure and to recognize emotional information in systems and devises employing affective haptics. Emotional information is extracted by using such techniques as speech recognition, natural language processing, facial expression detection, and measurement of physiological data.\n\nPossible applications are as follows:\nAffective Haptics is in the vanguard of emotional telepresence, technology that lets users feel emotionally as if they were present and communicating at a remote physical location. The remote environment can be real, virtual, or augmented.\n\nThe philosophy behind the iFeel_IM! (intelligent system for Feeling enhancement powered by affect sensitive Instant Messenger) is “I feel [therefore] I am!”. In the iFeel_IM! system, great importance is placed on the automatic sensing of emotions conveyed through textual messages in 3D virtual world Second Life (artificial intelligence), the visualization of the detected emotions by avatars in virtual environment, enhancement of user’s affective state, and reproduction of feeling of social touch (e.g., hug) by means of haptic stimulation in a real world. The control of the conversation is implemented through the Second Life object called EmoHeart attached to the avatar’s chest. In addition to communication with the system for textual affect sensing (Affect Analysis Model), EmoHeart is responsible for sensing symbolic cues or keywords of ‘hug’ communicative function conveyed by text, and for visualization of ‘hugging’ in Second Life. The iFeel_IM! system considerably enhance emotionally immersive experience of real-time messaging.\n\nIn order to build a social interface, Réhman et al.\n\nTo produce movie-specific tactile stimuli influencing the viewer’s emotions to the viewer’s body, the wearable tactile jacket was developed by Philips researchers. The motivation was to increase emotional immersion in a movie-viewing. The jacket contains 64 vibration motors that produce specially designed tactile patterns on the human torso.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36939819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36939819", "title": "Analog observation", "text": "Analog observation\n\nAnalog observation is, in contrast to naturalistic observation, a research tool by which a subject is observed in an artificial setting. Typically, types of settings in which analog observation is utilized include clinical offices or research laboratories, but, by definition, analog observations can be made in any artificial environment, even if the environment is one which the subject is likely to encounter naturally.\n\nAnalog observation is typically divided into two iteration of application: The first iteration primarily studies the effect of manipulation of variables in the subject's environment, including setting and events, on the subject's behavior. The second iteration primarily seeks to observe the subject's behavior in quasi-experimental social situations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1850147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850147", "title": "Arche", "text": "Arche\n\nArche (; ) is a Greek word with primary senses \"beginning\", \"origin\" or \"source of action\". (: from the beginning, οr : the original argument), and later \"first principle\" or \"element\", first so used by Anaximander (Simplicius in Ph. 150.23). By extension, it may mean \"first place, power\", \"method of government\", \"empire, realm\", \"authorities\" (in plural: ), \"command\". The first principle or element corresponds to the \"ultimate underlying substance\" and \"ultimate undemonstrable principle\". In the philosophical language of the archaic period (8th to 6th century BC), \"arche\" (or \"archai\") designates the source, origin or root of things that exist. In ancient Greek philosophy, Aristotle foregrounded the meaning of \"arche\" as the element or principle of a thing, which although undemonstrable and intangible in itself, provides the conditions of the possibility of that thing.\n\nIn the mythical Greek cosmogony of Hesiod (8th to 7th century BC), the origin of the world is Chaos, considered as a divine primordial condition, from which everything else appeared. In the creation \"chaos\" is a gaping-void, but later the word is used to describe the space between the earth and the sky, after their separation. \"Chaos\" may mean infinite space, or a formless matter which can be differentiated. The notion of temporal infinity was familiar to the Greek mind from remote antiquity in the religious conception of immortality. The conception of the \"divine\" as an origin influenced the first Greek philosophers.\nIn the Orphic cosmogony, the unaging Chronos produced Aether and Chaos and made in divine Aether a silvery egg, from which everything else appeared.\n\nIn the mythological cosmogonies of the Near East, the universe is formless and empty and the only existing thing prior to creation was the water abyss. In the Babylonian creation story, Enuma Elish the primordial world is described as a \"watery chaos\" from which everything else appeared. Something similar is described in Book of Genesis where the spirit of God is moving upon the dark face of the waters.\n\nIn the Hindu cosmology, which is similar to the Vedic cosmology, in the beginning there was nothing in the Universe but darkness. The self-manifested being created the primordial waters and established his seed into it. This turned into a golden egg (Hiranyagarbha) from which everything else appeared.\n\nThe heritage of Greek mythology already embodied the desire to articulate reality as a whole and this universalizing impulse was fundamental for the first projects of speculative theorizing. It appears that the order of \"being\" was first imaginatively visualized before it was abstractly thought.\nIn the ancient Greek philosophy, \"arche\" is the element and the first principle of existing things. This is considered as a permanent substance or nature (physis) either one or more which is conserved in the generation of rest of it. From this all things first come to be and into this they are resolved in a final state. This source of entity is always preserved. (Aristotle-Metaph.A, 983, b6ff). Anaximander was the first philosopher that used \"arche\" for that which writers from Aristotle onwards called \"the substratum\" (Simplicius Phys. 150, 22). The Greek philosophers ascribed to \"arche\" divine attributes. It is the divine horizon of substance that encompasses and values all things.\n\nThales of Miletus (7th to 6th century BC), the father of philosophy, claimed that the first principle of all things is water, and considered it as a substance that contains in it motion and change. His theory was supported by the observation of moisture throughout the world and coincided with his theory that the earth floated on water. His ideas were influenced by the Near-Eastern mythological cosmogony and probably by the Homeric statement that the surrounding Oceanus (ocean) is the source of all springs and rivers.\n\nThales' theory was refuted by his successor and esteemed pupil, Anaximander. Anaximander noted that water could not be the arche, because it could not give rise to its opposite, fire. Anaximander claimed that none of the elements (earth, fire, air, water) could be arche for the same reason. Instead, he proposed the existence of the apeiron, an indefinite substance from which all things are born and to which all things will return. \"Apeiron\" (endless or boundless) is something completely indefinite and Anaximander was probably influenced by the original \"chaos\" of Hesiod (yawning abyss). He probably intended it to mean primarily \"indefinite in kind\" but assumed it also to be \"of unlimited extent and duration\". The notion of temporal infinity was familiar to the Greek mind from remote antiquity in the religious conception of immortality and Anaximander's description was in terms appropriate to this conception. This \"arche\" is called \"eternal and ageless\". (Hippolitus I,6,I;DK B2)\n\nAnaximenes, Anaximander's pupil, advanced yet another theory. He returns to the elemental theory, but this time posits air, rather than water, as the arche and ascribes to it divine attributes. He was the first recorded philosopher who provided a theory of change and supported it with observation. Using two contrary processes of rarefaction and condensation (thinning or thickening), he explains how air is part of a series of changes. Rarefied air becomes fire, condensed it becomes first wind, then cloud, water, earth, and stone in order. The \"arche\" is technically what underlies all of reality/appearances.\n\n"}
{"id": "1381344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1381344", "title": "Ars Poetica (Horace)", "text": "Ars Poetica (Horace)\n\nArs Poetica, or \"The Art of Poetry\", is a poem written by Horace c. 19 BC, in which he advises poets on the art of writing poetry and drama. The \"Ars Poetica\" has \"exercised a great influence in later ages on European literature, notably on French drama\" and has inspired poets and authors since it was written. Although it had been familiar since the Middle Ages, it is used in literary criticism since the Renaissance.\n\nThe poem was written in hexameter verse as an Epistle (or Letter) to Lucius Calpurnius Piso (the Roman senator and consul) and his two sons, and is sometimes referred to as the \"Epistula Ad Pisones\", or \"Epistle to the Pisos\". The first mention of its name as the \"Ars Poetica\" was c. 95 by the classical literary critic Quintilian in his \"Institutio Oratoria\", and since then it has been known by that name. The translations of the original epistle are typically in the form of prose.\n\n\"Written, like Horace's other epistles of this period, in a loose conversational frame, \"Ars poetica\" consists of 476 lines containing nearly 30 maxims for young poets.\" But \"Ars Poetica\" is not a systematic treatise of theory, and it wasn't intended to be. It is an inviting and lively poetic letter, composed for friends who appreciate poetic literature.\n\nHorace approaches poetry from a practical standpoint—as a craft, or \"ars\"—rather than the theoretical approach of his predecessors, Aristotle and the philosopher Plato. He also holds the poet in high regard, as opposed, for instance, to Plato, who distrusts \"mimesis\" and who has philosopher Socrates say in Book 10 of the \"Republic\" that he would banish poets from the ideal state.\n\nThe following is a brief outline of the main subjects of the work:\n\n\"Many of...[the] apt phrases [of the Ars Poetica]...have passed into common literary parlance.\" Four quotations in particular are associated with the work:\n\n\nThe work is also known for its discussion of the principle of decorum (the use of appropriate vocabulary and diction in each style of writing) (l.81–106), and for Horace's criticisms of purple prose \"(purpureus pannus,\" l.15–16), a term coined by him to mean the use of flowery language. This principle is considered a core component of Horatian poetics as it principally aimed to achieve verisimilitude in artistic representation, guiding everything from the choice of genre to diction, dramatic characterization, meter, poetic invention, and the intended effect. Some cited that decorum enforces subordination such as of parts to whole, woman to man, desire to reason, and individual to state.\n\nIn line 191, Horace warns against \"deus ex machina\", the practice of resolving a convoluted plot by having an Olympian god appear and set things right. Horace writes \"Nec deus intersit, nisi dignus vindice nodus\": \"That a god not intervene, unless a knot show up that be worthy of such an untangler\".\n\nPerhaps it can even be said that the quotability of Horace's \"Ars Poetica\" is what has given it a distinguished place in literary criticism: \"The Norton Anthology of Theory and Criticism\" says: \n\nThe Horatian platitude is usually given as \"instruct \"and\" delight\", but sometimes as \"instruct \"or\" delight\". The first reading implies that all literature must be instructive. A related ambiguity is that \"instruct\" might be better translated as \"help\", \"advise\", or \"warn\". Horace repeats this maxim in different wordings: \"Aut prodesse uolunt aut delectare poetae aut simul et iucunda et idonea dicere uitae\" (The poet wishes to benefit or please, or to be pleasant and helpful at the same time), \"miscuit utile dulci\" (a mix of useful and sweet), and \"delectando pariterque monendo\" (delighting and advising).\n\nThe \"Ars Poetica\" was first translated into English in 1566 by Thomas Drant. A translation by Ben Jonson was published posthumously in 1640.\n\n\n (English translation)\n"}
{"id": "2340367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2340367", "title": "Australian Drug Evaluation Committee", "text": "Australian Drug Evaluation Committee\n\nThe Australian Drug Evaluation Committee or ADEC, was a committee that provided independent scientific advice to the Australian Government regarding therapeutic drugs. The committee was originally formed in 1963 and more recently authorised under the \"Therapeutic Goods Act 1989 (Cth)\" as part of the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). In 2010, ADEC was replaced by the Advisory Committee on Prescription Medicines (ACPM)\n\nADEC provided advice to the Minister for Health and Ageing and the Secretary of the Department of Health on:\n\nAn important role of ADEC was the classification of drugs in Australia into pregnancy categories.\n\nThe two main subcommittees of ADEC which were responsible for specific aspects of drug regulation in Australia:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5289291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5289291", "title": "Blind men and an elephant", "text": "Blind men and an elephant\n\nThe parable of the blind men and an elephant originated in the ancient Indian subcontinent, from where it has been widely diffused. However the meaning of the popular proverb differs in other countries. It is a story of a group of blind men, who have never come across an elephant before and who learn and conceptualize what the elephant is like by touching it. Each blind man feels a different part of the elephant's body, but only one part, such as the side or the tusk. They then describe the elephant based on their limited experience and their descriptions of the elephant are different from each other. In some versions, they come to suspect that the other person is dishonest and they come to blows. The moral of the parable is that humans have a tendency to claim absolute truth based on their limited, subjective experience as they ignore other people's limited, subjective experiences which may be equally true.\n\nThe first version of the story itself is traceable to the Buddhist text \"Udana 6.4\", dated to about mid 1st millennium BCE. According to John Ireland, the parable is likely older than the Buddhist text.\n\nAn alternate version of the parable describes normal men, experiencing a large statue on a dark night, or feeling a large object while being blindfolded. They then describe what it is they have experienced. In its various versions, it is a parable that has crossed between many religious traditions and is part of Buddhist, Hindu and Jain texts of 1st millennium CE or before. The story also appears in 2nd millennium Sufi and Bahá’í lore. The tale later became well known in Europe, with 19th century American poet John Godfrey Saxe creating as a poem, with a final verse that explains that the elephant is a metaphor for God, and the various blind men represent religions that disagree on something no one has fully experienced. The story has been published in many books for adults and children, and interpreted in a variety of ways.\n\nThe earliest versions of the parable of blind men and elephant is found in Buddhist, Hindu and Jain texts, as they discuss the limits of perception and the importance of complete context. The parable has several Indian variations, but broadly goes as follows:\n\nIn some versions, the blind men then discover their disagreements, suspect the others to be not telling the truth and come to blows. The stories also differ primarily in how the elephant's body parts are described, how violent the conflict becomes and how (or if) the conflict among the men and their perspectives is resolved. In some versions, they stop talking, start listening and collaborate to \"see\" the full elephant. In another, a sighted man enters the parable and describes the entire elephant from various perspectives, the blind men then learn that they were all partially correct and partially wrong. While one's subjective experience is true, it may not be the totality of truth.\n\nThe parable has been used to illustrate a range of truths and fallacies; broadly, the parable implies that one's subjective experience can be true, but that such experience is inherently limited by its failure to account for other truths or a totality of truth. At various times the parable has provided insight into the relativism, opaqueness or inexpressible nature of truth, the behavior of experts in fields of contradicting theories, the need for deeper understanding, and respect for different perspectives on the same object of observation.\n\nThe \"Rigveda\", dated to have been composed between 1500 and 1200 BCE, states \"Reality is one, though wise men speak of it variously.\" According to Paul J. Griffiths, this premise is the foundation of universalist perspective behind the parable of the blind men and an elephant. The hymn asserts that the same reality is subject to interpretations and described in various ways by the wise. In the oldest version, four blind men walk into a forest where they meet an elephant. In this version, they do not fight with each other, but conclude that they each must have perceived a different beast although they experienced the same elephant. The expanded version of the parable occurs in various ancient and Hindu texts. Many scholars refer to it as a Hindu parable.\n\nThe parable or references appear in \"bhasya\" (commentaries, secondary literature) in the Hindu traditions. For example, Adi Shankara mentions it in his \"bhasya\" on verse 5.18.1 of the \"Chandogya Upanishad\" as follows:\n\nThe medieval era Jain texts explain the concepts of \"anekāntavāda\" (or \"many-sidedness\") and \"syādvāda\" (\"conditioned viewpoints\") with the parable of the blind men and an elephant (\"Andhgajanyāyah\"), which addresses the manifold nature of truth. For example, this parable are found in \"Tattvarthaslokavatika\" of Vidyanandi (9th century) and \"Syādvādamanjari\" of Ācārya Mallisena (13th century). Mallisena uses the parable to argue that immature people deny various aspects of truth; deluded by the aspects they \"do\" understand, they deny the aspects they \"don't\" understand. \"Due to extreme delusion produced on account of a partial viewpoint, the immature deny one aspect and try to establish another. This is the maxim of the blind (men) and the elephant.\" Mallisena also cites the parable when noting the importance of considering all viewpoints in obtaining a full picture of reality. \"It is impossible to properly understand an entity consisting of infinite properties without the method of modal description consisting of all viewpoints, since it will otherwise lead to a situation of seizing mere sprouts (i.e., a superficial, inadequate cognition), on the maxim of the blind (men) and the elephant.\"\n\nThe Buddha twice uses the simile of blind men led astray. The earliest known version occurs in the text \"Udana 6.4\".\n\nIn the \"Canki Sutta\" he describes a row of blind men holding on to each other as an example of those who follow an old text that has passed down from generation to generation. In the Udana (68–69) he uses the elephant parable to describe sectarian quarrels. A king has the blind men of the capital brought to the palace, where an elephant is brought in and they are asked to describe it.\n\nWhen the blind men had each felt a part of the elephant, the king went to each of them and said to each: 'Well, blind man, have you seen the elephant? Tell me, what sort of thing is an elephant?'\n\nThe men assert the elephant is either like a pot (the blind man who felt the elephant's head), a winnowing basket (ear), a plowshare (tusk), a plow (trunk), a granary (body), a pillar (foot), a mortar (back), a pestle (tail) or a brush (tip of the tail).\n\nThe men cannot agree with one another and come to blows over the question of what it is like and their dispute delights the king. The Buddha ends the story by comparing the blind men to preachers and scholars who are blind and ignorant and hold to their own views: \"Just so are these preachers and scholars holding various views blind and unseeing... In their ignorance they are by nature quarrelsome, wrangling, and disputatious, each maintaining reality is thus and thus.\" The Buddha then speaks the following verse:\n\nThe Persian Sufi poet Sanai of Ghazni (currently, Afghanistan) presented this teaching story in his \"The Walled Garden of Truth\".\n\nRumi, the 13th Century Persian poet and teacher of Sufism, included it in his Masnavi. In his retelling, \"The Elephant in the Dark\", some Hindus bring an elephant to be exhibited in a dark room. A number of men touch and feel the elephant in the dark and, depending upon where they touch it, they believe the elephant to be like a water spout (trunk), a fan (ear), a pillar (leg) and a throne (back). Rumi uses this story as an example of the limits of individual perception:\nThe sensual eye is just like the palm of the hand. The palm has not the means of covering the whole of the beast.\n\nRumi does not present a resolution to the conflict in his version, but states:\nThe eye of the Sea is one thing and the foam another. Let the foam go, and gaze with the eye of the Sea. Day and night foam-flecks are flung from the sea: oh amazing! You behold the foam but not the Sea. We are like boats dashing together; our eyes are darkened, yet we are in clear water.\n\nRumi ends his poem by stating \"If each had a candle and they went in together the differences would disappear.\" \n\nOne of the most famous versions of the 19th century was the poem \"\" by John Godfrey Saxe (1816–1887).\n\nThe poem begins:\nEach in his own opinion concludes that the elephant is like a wall, snake, spear, tree, fan or rope, depending upon where they had touched. Their heated debate comes short of physical violence, but the conflict is never resolved.\nNatalie Merchant sang this poem in full on her Leave Your Sleep album (Disc 1, track 13).\n\nIn Japan, the proverb is used as a simile of circumstance that ordinary men often fail to understand a great man or his great work.\n\nThe story is seen as a metaphor in many disciplines, being pressed into service as an analogy in fields well beyond the traditional. In physics, it has been seen as an analogy for the wave–particle duality. In biology, the way the blind men hold onto different parts of the elephant has been seen as a good analogy for the Polyclonal B cell response.The fable is one of a number of tales that cast light on the response of hearers or readers to the story itself. Idries Shah has commented on this element of self-reference in the many interpretations of the story, and its function as a teaching story:\n...people address themselves to this story in one or more [...] interpretations. They then accept or reject them. Now they can feel happy; they have arrived at an opinion about the matter. According to their conditioning they produce the answer. Now look at their answers. Some will say that this is a fascinating and touching allegory of the presence of God. Others will say that it is showing people how stupid mankind can be. Some say it is anti-scholastic. Others that it is just a tale copied by Rumi from Sanai – and so on.\n\nShah adapted the tale in his book \"The Dermis Probe\". This version begins with a conference of scientists, from different fields of expertise, presenting their conflicting conclusions on the material upon which a camera is focused. As the camera slowly zooms out it gradually becomes clear that the material under examination is the hide of an African elephant. The words 'The Parts Are Greater Than The Whole' then appear on the screen. This retelling formed the script for a short four-minute film by the animator Richard Williams. The film was chosen as an Outstanding Film of the Year and was exhibited at the London and New York film festivals.\n\nThe story enjoys a continuing appeal, as shown by the number of illustrated children's books of the fable; there is one for instance by Paul Galdone and another, \"Seven Blind Mice\", by Ed Young (1992).\n\nIn the title cartoon of one of his books, cartoonist Sam Gross postulated that one of the blind men, encountering a pile of the elephant feces, concluded that \"An elephant is soft and mushy.\"\n\nAn elephant joke inverts the story in the following way:\nSix blind elephants were discussing what men were like. After arguing they decided to find one and determine what it was like by direct experience. The first blind elephant felt the man and declared, 'Men are flat.' After the other blind elephants felt the man, they agreed.\nMoral:\n\"Touching the Elephant\" was a 1997 BBC Radio 4 documentary in which four people of varying ages, all blind from birth, were brought to London Zoo to touch an elephant and describe their response.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5502984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5502984", "title": "Carroll diagram", "text": "Carroll diagram\n\nA Carroll diagram, Lewis Carroll's square, biliteral diagram or a \"two-way table\" is a diagram used for grouping things in a yes/no fashion. Numbers or objects are either categorised as 'x' (having an attribute x) or 'not x' (not having an attribute 'x'). They are named after Lewis Carroll, the pseudonym of Charles Lutwidge Dodgson.\n\nAlthough Carroll diagrams can be as simple as the first one above, the most well known types are those similar to the second one, where two attributes are shown. The <nowiki>'</nowiki>universe<nowiki>'</nowiki> of a Carroll diagram is contained within the boxes in the diagram, as any number or object has to either have an attribute or not have it.\n\nCarroll diagrams are often learnt by schoolchildren, but they can also be used outside the field of education, since they are a tidy way of categorising and displaying information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45501544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45501544", "title": "Cegléd water jug", "text": "Cegléd water jug\n\nThe Cegléd water jug () is a container for water named after the city of Cegléd, Hungary. It is also used as a musical instrument in folk music, in particular, in Romani music of Hungary.\n\nA Cegléd jug is a 7–9 liter metal jug for water, with a handle and a lid. It is a relatively modern invention. They were first manufactured by a János Rónay in Cegléd in the 1910s. Before the wide distribution of water pipelines, Cegléd jugs were popular for delivery of water to farmers during harvest, construction and other workers away from residential places. They quickly became popular, because they were not fragile like pottery jugs, easy to carry by hand, on bicycle or in a car, and were easy to clean. Since there was only one manufacturer for a long time, the name stuck.\n\nOriginally Cegléd jugs were made of galvanized tin. Later they were made of aluminium and steel, both bare metal and enamel-covered, typically of red, blue or white color. Despite the complicated shape, the jug (without handle) was made of a single metal sheet. For sturdiness, the mouth and bottom rims were doubly folded. The handle was attached by rivets.\n\nCegléd jugs became a rhythm musical instrument among Romani in 1970 through the 1980s. The first usage of the jug is attributed to Károly Rostás (\"Huttyán\"). Later it was perfected by other Roma musicians, such as Kalyi Jag. When hit by palms, Cegléd jugs produce a wide variety of sounds, depending on the place hit (handle, body, rim), whether it is struck or slapped, whether the jug mouth is muffled, etc. The combination of metal sound and deep dull sound of the air cavity puts the instrument in categories of idiophones and wind instruments.\n\nIn 2008 and 2009, two \"Ceglédi KannaBál\" festivals, that highlighted this musical instrument, took place. In addition to traditional Romani music, the festival featured reggae, jazz and blues music bands which used Ceglédi jugs. The kanna pioneer József Nagy of Kalyi Jag told the history of the instrument and taught how to play it.\n\n"}
{"id": "56269403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56269403", "title": "Ceiling Painting/Yes Painting", "text": "Ceiling Painting/Yes Painting\n\nCeiling Painting/Yes Painting is a 1966 conceptual artwork by the Japanese artist Yoko Ono.\n\nThe work is made from paper, glass, a metal frame, a metal chain, a magnifying glass, and a painted ladder. The word YES is printed on the piece of paper. The work is interactive, with the viewer (or participant) expected to climb the ladder and use a magnifying glass to look at the word 'YES' which is printed on paper beneath a sheet of glass suspended from the ceiling.\n\nThe work was shown at Ono's autumn 1966 show, \"Unfinished Paintings and Objects By Yoko Ono\" at the Indica Gallery in London. Two different ladders were used by Ono in the New York and subsequent London showing of the piece. The piece was displayed at Ono's 2014 retrospective at the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao.\n\nThe relationship of the participant to the piece has changed in subsequent decades. At a retrospective in 2000, \"Ceiling Painting/Yes Painting\" was displayed on a pedestal with physical interaction no longer possible. Interaction with Ono's \"Painting to Hammer a Nail\" was equally limited, with the piece having been displayed behind plexiglass.\n\nThe preview night of Ono's INDICA exhibition on 9 November 1966 was visited by the musician John Lennon who had heard that \"this amazing woman was going to be putting on a show...and it was going to be a bit of a happening\". Lennon was initially impressed by the humour of Ono's work \"Apple\", and later said of his interaction with \"Ceiling Painting/Yes Painting\" that he had \"climbed the ladder, looked through the spyglass, and in tiny little letters it said 'yes'...So it was positive. I felt relieved\". Lennon's initial interaction with \"Ceiling Painting/Yes Painting\" was depicted in the Canadian playwright Jean Yoon's 2002 play \"The Yoko Ono Project\".\n\nThe positive message of the piece attracted Lennon to Ono, the pair were subsequently introduced with neither apparently knowing much about each other's creative work. Ono recalled in a 2014 interview with art critic Jonathan Jones for \"The Guardian\" that \"The ladder John had to climb up was very high\" with Jones writing that the \"smallness of the yes and the difficulty of reaching it\" reflected Ono's pain after the breakup of a recent relationship.\n\n\"Ceiling Painting/Yes Painting\" has been described by Ono as being representative of a journey towards hope and affirmation from pain. The difficulty in attaining hope and affirmation has been likened by Ono to the intimidating stature of a cathedral.\n\nThe relationship between \"Ceiling Painting/Yes Painting\" and Ono's 1964 work \"Cut Piece\" was extensively critiqued by James M. Harding in his essay \"Between Material and Matrix: Yoko Ono's \"Cut Piece\" and the Unmaking of Collage\" in his 2012 book of essays, \"Cutting Performances: Collage Events, Feminist Artists, and the American Avant-Garde\".\n"}
{"id": "439497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=439497", "title": "Classical limit", "text": "Classical limit\n\nThe classical limit or correspondence limit is the ability of a physical theory to approximate or \"recover\" classical mechanics when considered over special values of its parameters. The classical limit is used with physical theories that predict non-classical behavior.\n\nA heuristic postulate called the correspondence principle was introduced to quantum theory by Niels Bohr: in effect it states that some kind of continuity argument should apply to the classical limit of quantum systems as the value of Planck's constant normalized by the action of these systems becomes very small. Often, this is approached through \"quasi-classical\" techniques (cf. WKB approximation).\n\nMore rigorously, the mathematical operation involved in classical limits is a group contraction, approximating physical systems where the relevant action is much larger than Planck's constant , so the \"deformation parameter\" / can be effectively taken to be zero (cf. Weyl quantization.) Thus typically, quantum commutators (equivalently, Moyal brackets) reduce to Poisson brackets, in a group contraction.\n\nIn quantum mechanics, due to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, an electron can never be at rest; it must always have a non-zero kinetic energy, a result not found in classical mechanics. For example, if we consider something very large relative to an electron, like a baseball, the uncertainty principle predicts that it cannot really have zero kinetic energy, but the uncertainty in kinetic energy is so small that the baseball can effectively appear to be at rest, and hence it appears to obey classical mechanics. In general, if large energies and large objects (relative to the size and energy levels of an electron) are considered in quantum mechanics, the result will appear to obey classical mechanics. The typical occupation numbers involved are huge: a macroscopic harmonic oscillator with  = 2 Hz,  = 10 g, and maximum amplitude  = 10 cm, has  = , so that  ≃ 10. Further see coherent states. It is less clear, however, how the classical limit applies to chaotic systems, a field known as quantum chaos.\n\nQuantum mechanics and classical mechanics are usually treated with entirely different formalisms: quantum theory using Hilbert space, and classical mechanics using a representation in phase space. One can bring the two into a common mathematical framework in various ways. In the phase space formulation of quantum mechanics, which is statistical in nature, logical connections between quantum mechanics and classical statistical mechanics are made, enabling natural comparisons between them.\n\nIn a crucial paper (1933), Dirac explained how classical mechanics is an emergent phenomenon of quantum mechanics: destructive interference among paths with non-extremal macroscopic actions  »  obliterate amplitude contributions in the path integral he introduced, leaving the extremal action , thus the classical action path as the dominant contribution, an observation further elaborated by Feynman in his 1942 PhD dissertation. (Further see quantum decoherence.)\n\nOne simple way to compare classical to quantum mechanics is to consider the time-evolution of the \"expected\" position and \"expected\" momentum, which can then be compared to the time-evolution of the ordinary position and momentum in classical mechanics. The quantum expectation values satisfy the Ehrenfest theorem. For a one-dimensional quantum particle moving in a potential formula_1, the Ehrenfest theorem says\nAlthough the first of these equations is consistent with the classical mechanics, the second is not: If the pair formula_3 were to satisfy Newton's second law, the right-hand side of the second equation would have read\nBut in most cases,\nIf for example, the potential formula_1 is cubic, then formula_7 is quadratic, in which case, we are talking about the distinction between formula_8 and formula_9, which differ by formula_10.\n\nAn exception occurs in case when the classical equations of motion are linear, that is, when formula_1 is quadratic and formula_7 is linear. In that special case, formula_13 and formula_14 do agree. In particular, for a free particle or a quantum harmonic oscillator, the expected position and expected momentum exactly follows solutions of Newton's equations.\n\nFor general systems, the best we can hope for is that the expected position and momentum will \"approximately\" follow the classical trajectories. If the wave function is highly concentrated around a point formula_15, then formula_13 and formula_14 will be \"almost\" the same, since both will be approximately equal to formula_18. In that case, the expected position and expected momentum will remain very close to the classical trajectories, at least \"for as long as\" the wave function remains highly localized in position. \n\nNow, if the initial state is very localized in position, it will be very spread out in momentum, and thus we expect that the wave function will rapidly spread out, and the connection with the classical trajectories will be lost. When Planck's constant is small, however, it is possible to have a state that is well localized in \"both\" position and momentum. The small uncertainty in momentum ensures that the particle \"remains\" well localized in position for a long time, so that expected position and momentum continue to closely track the classical trajectories for a long time.\n\nOther familiar deformations in physics involve:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92208", "title": "Cobalt bomb", "text": "Cobalt bomb\n\nA cobalt bomb is a type of \"salted bomb\": a nuclear weapon designed to produce enhanced amounts of radioactive fallout, intended to contaminate a large area with radioactive material. The concept of a cobalt bomb was originally described in a radio program by physicist Leó Szilárd on February 26, 1950. His intent was not to propose that such a weapon be built, but to show that nuclear weapon technology would soon reach the point where it could end human life on Earth, a Doomsday device. Such \"salted\" weapons were requested by the U.S. Air Force and seriously investigated, but not deployed. In the 1964 edition of the U.S. Department of Defense book \"The Effects of Nuclear Weapons\", a new section titled radiological warfare clarified the \"Doomsday device\" issue.\n\nThe Russian Federation has allegedly developed cobalt warheads for use with their Status-6 Oceanic Multipurpose System nuclear torpedoes. However many commentators doubt that this is a real project, and see it as more likely to be a staged leak to intimidate the United States. Amongst other comments on it, Edward Moore Geist wrote a paper in which he says that \"Russian decision makers would have little confidence that these areas would be in the intended locations\" and Russian military experts are cited as saying that \"robotic torpedos could have other purposes, such as delivering deep-sea equipment or installing surveillance devices.\"\n\nThe Operation Antler/Round 1 test by the British at the Tadje site in the Maralinga range in Australia on September 14, 1957, tested a bomb using cobalt pellets as a radiochemical tracer for estimating yield. This was considered a failure and the experiment was not repeated. In Russia, the triple \"taiga\" nuclear salvo test, as part of the preliminary March 1971 Pechora–Kama Canal project, produced relatively high amounts of Co-60 from the steel that surrounded the Taiga devices, with this fusion generated neutron activation product being responsible for about half of the gamma dose now (2011) at the test site. This high percentage contribution is largely because the devices did not rely much at all on fission reactions and thus the quantity of gamma emitting caesium-137 fallout, is therefore comparatively low. Photosynthesizing vegetation exists all around the lake that was formed.\n\nA cobalt bomb could be made by placing a quantity of ordinary cobalt metal (Co) around a thermonuclear bomb. When the bomb explodes, the neutrons produced by the fusion reaction in the secondary stage of the thermonuclear bomb's explosion would transmute the cobalt to the radioactive cobalt-60 (Co), which would be vaporized by the explosion. The cobalt would then condense and fall back to Earth with the dust and debris from the explosion, contaminating the ground.\n\nThe deposited cobalt-60 would have a half-life of 5.27 years, decaying into Ni and emitting two gamma rays with energies of 1.17 and 1.33 MeV, hence the overall nuclear equation of the reaction is:\n\nNickel-60 is a stable isotope and undergoes no further decays after emitting the gamma rays.\n\nThe 5.27 year half life of the Co is long enough to allow it to settle out before significant decay has occurred, and to render it impractical to wait in shelters for it to decay, yet short enough that intense radiation is produced. Many isotopes are more radioactive (gold-198, tantalum-182, zinc-65, sodium-24, and many more), but they would decay faster, possibly allowing some population to survive in shelters.\n\nFission products are more deadly than neutron-activated cobalt in the first few weeks following detonation. After one to six months, the fission products from even a large-yield thermonuclear weapon decay to levels tolerable by humans. The large-yield three-stage (fission–fusion–fission) thermonuclear weapon is thus automatically a weapon of radiological warfare, but its fallout decays much more rapidly than that of a cobalt bomb. A cobalt bomb's fallout on the other hand would render affected areas effectively stuck in this interim state for decades: habitable, but not safe for constant habitation.\n\nInitially, gamma radiation from the fission products of an equivalent size fission-fusion-fission bomb are much more intense than Co-60: 15,000 times more intense at 1 hour; 35 times more intense at 1 week; 5 times more intense at 1 month; and about equal at 6 months. Thereafter fission product fallout radiation levels drop off rapidly, so that Co-60 fallout is 8 times more intense than fission at 1 year and 150 times more intense at 5 years. The very long-lived isotopes produced by fission would overtake the Co again after about 75 years.\n\nTheoretically, a device containing 510 metric tons of Co-59 can spread 1 g of the material to each square km of the Earth's surface (510,000,000 km). If one assumes that all of the material is converted to Co-60 at 100 percent efficiency and if it is spread evenly across the Earth's surface, it is possible for a single bomb to kill every person on Earth. However, in fact, complete 100% conversion into Co-60 is unlikely; a 1957 British experiment at Maralinga showed that Co-59's neutron absorption ability was much lower than predicted, resulting in a very limited formation of Co-60 isotope in practice.\n\nIn addition, another important point in considering the effects of cobalt bombs is that deposition of fallout is not even throughout the path downwind from a detonation, so that there are going to be areas relatively unaffected by fallout and places where there is unusually intense fallout, so that the Earth would not be universally rendered lifeless by a cobalt bomb. The fallout and devastation following a nuclear detonation does not scale upwards linearly with the explosive yield (equivalent to tons of TNT). As a result, the concept of \"overkill\"—the idea that one can simply estimate the destruction and fallout created by a thermonuclear weapon of the size postulated by Leo Szilard's \"cobalt bomb\" thought experiment by extrapolating from the effects of thermonuclear weapons of smaller yields—is fallacious.\n\nAssume a cobalt bomb deposits intense fallout causing a dose rate of 10 sieverts (Sv) per hour. At this dose rate, any unsheltered person exposed to the fallout would receive a lethal dose in about 30 minutes (assuming a median lethal dose of 5 Sv). People in well-built shelters would be safe due to radiation shielding.\n\nAfter one half-life of 5.27 years, only half of the cobalt-60 will have decayed, and the dose rate in the affected area would be 5 Sv/hour. At this dose rate, a person exposed to the radiation would receive a lethal dose in 1 hour.\n\nAfter 10 half-lives (about 53 years), the dose rate would have decayed to around 10 mSv/hour. At this point, a healthy person could spend 1 to 4 days exposed to the fallout with no immediate effects.\n\nAfter 20 half-lives (about 105 years), the dose rate would have decayed to around 10 μSv/hour. At this stage, humans could remain unsheltered full-time since their yearly radiation dose would be about 80 mSv. However, this yearly dose rate is on the order of 30 times greater than the peacetime exposure rate of 2.5 mSv/year. As a result, the rate of cancer incidence in the survivor population would likely increase.\n\nAfter 25 half-lives (about 130 years), the dose rate from cobalt-60 would have decayed to less than 0.4 μSv/hour (natural background radiation) and could be considered negligible.\n\nIn practice it is unlikely that people would simply sit and wait for nuclear decay to go to completion, as in all historical fallout cases, decontamination of valuable land has occurred. This is most commonly done with the use of simple equipment such as lead glass covered excavators and bulldozers, similar to those employed in the Lake Chagan project. By skimming off the thin layer of fallout on the topsoil surface and burying it in the likes of a deep trench along with isolating it from ground water sources, the gamma air dose is cut by orders of magnitude. The decontamination after the Goiânia accident in Brazil 1987 and the possibility of a \"dirty bomb\" with Co-60, which has similarities with the environment that one would be faced with after a nuclear yielding cobalt bomb's fallout had settled, has prompted the invention of \"Sequestration Coatings\" and cheap liquid phase sorbents for Co-60 that would further aid in decontamination, including that of water.\n\nIn 2015, a page from an apparent Russian nuclear-armed torpedo design was accidentally or deliberately leaked. The design was titled \"Oceanic Multipurpose System Status-6\". The document stated the torpedo would create \"wide areas of radioactive contamination, rendering them unusable for military, economic or other activity for a long time\". Its payload would be \"many tens of megatons in yield\". Russian government newspaper Rossiiskaya Gazeta speculated that the warhead would be a cobalt bomb. It is not known whether the Status-6 is a real project, or whether it is Russian disinformation. In 2018 the Pentagon's annual Nuclear Posture Review stated Russia is developing a system called the \"Status-6 Oceanic Multipurpose System\". If Status-6 does exist, it is not publicly known whether the leaked 2015 design is accurate, nor whether the 2015 claim that the torpedo might be a cobalt bomb is genuine. Status-6 was officially disclosed and confirmed by Vladimir Putin in 2018 during his display of new Russian offensive weapons, including the Satan-2, Air Launched Iskander, Nuclear cruise-missile, and hypersonic glider.\n\nIn the 4th act of the classic episode \"\", Ensign Garrovick refers to 10,000 Cobalt Bombs not equaling the power of less than one ounce of Antimatter. \n\nIn \"Beneath the Planet of the Apes\" (1970) the main character, upon seeing that the underground people worship a giant bomb that can wipe out the world, comments \"They finally made one, cased in cobalt\" in reference to a cobalt bomb that could wipe out the world. Similarly, in the bestselling \"On the Beach\" (1957) the cobalt bomb was a symbol of man's hubris.\n\nIn the black comedy \"\" (1964), a type of cobalt-salted bomb is employed, with a Dead Hand mechanism, by the Soviet Union as a nuclear deterrent: if the system detects any nuclear attack, the doomsday device will be automatically unleashed. With unfortunate timing, a mentally ill American officer orders an attack on the USSR. One American bomber piloted by a hapless and unknowing crew gets through to their target; the Dead Hand mechanism works as designed and initiates a worldwide nuclear holocaust. The Russian Ambassador says \"If you take, say, fifty H-bombs in the hundred megaton range and jacket them with Cobalt Thorium G, when they are exploded they will produce a doomsday shroud. A lethal cloud of radioactivity which will encircle the earth for ninety-three years!\"\n\nIn the \"Spectreman\" episodes \"Smash Alien Igorl!!\" and \"Enigma of the Cobalt Monster\", the villainous Dr. Gori and race of Igorl aliens create a cobalt bomb from a heavy amount of cobalt found beneath a small village and place it within a monster, planning for it to destroy the world due to it reacting strongly to Earth's polluted atmosphere.\n\n"}
{"id": "29567109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29567109", "title": "E-Stewards", "text": "E-Stewards\n\nThe e-Stewards Initiative is an electronics waste recycling standard created by the Basel Action Network.\n\nThe program and the organization that created it grew out of the concern that electronic waste generated in wealthy countries was being dismantled in poor countries, often by underage workers. The young workers were being exposed to toxic metals and working in unsafe conditions.\n\nIn 2009, BAN published the e-Stewards Standard for Responsible Recycling and Reuse of Electronic Equipment which set forth requirements for becoming a Certified e-Stewards Recycler—a program that \"recognizes electronics recyclers that adhere to the most stringent environmentally and socially responsible practices when recovering hazardous electronic materials.\" Recyclers that were qualified under the older Pledge program had until 1 September 2011 to achieve certification to the Standard by an e-Stewards Accredited Certification Body accredited by ANAB (ANSI-ASQ National Accreditation Board).\n\nThe e-Stewards Standard for Responsible Recycling and Reuse of Electronic Equipment was developed by the Basel Action Network. It is an industry-specific environmental management system standard that is the basis for the e-Stewards Initiative. On 6 March 2012, BAN released and updated revised Version 2.0 to open public comment prior to its final adoption later in the spring of 2012.\n\nThe certification is available to all electronics recyclers and refurbishers. To achieve an e-Stewards certification organizations are subject to an initial Stage I and Stage II audit. After passing such audits and being accepted by BAN, yearly surveillance audits take place to ensure organizations with the standard and have a registered ISO 14001 environmental management system in place, as well as achieving numerous performance requirements including assuring no export of hazardous electronic wastes to developing countries, no use of prison labor and no dumping of toxic materials in municipal landfills.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1451995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1451995", "title": "Egocentrism", "text": "Egocentrism\n\nEgocentrism is the inability to differentiate between self and other. More specifically, it is the inability to untangle subjective schemas from objective reality and an inability to understand or assume any perspective other than one's own.\n\nAlthough egocentrism and narcissism appear similar, they are not the same. A person who is egocentric believes they are the center of attention, like a narcissist, but does not receive gratification by one's own admiration. Both egotists and narcissists are people whose egos are greatly influenced by the approval of others, while for egocentrists this may or may not be true.\n\nAlthough egocentric behaviors are less prominent in adulthood, the existence of some forms of egocentrism in adulthood indicates that overcoming egocentrism may be a lifelong development that never achieves completion. Adults appear to be less egocentric than children because they are faster to correct from an initially egocentric perspective than children, not because they are less likely to initially adopt an egocentric perspective.\n\nTherefore, egocentrism is found across the life span: in infancy, early childhood, adolescence, and adulthood. It contributes to the human cognitive development by helping children develop theory of mind and self-identity formation.\n\nThe main concept infants and young children learn by beginning to show egocentrism is the fact that their thoughts, values, and behaviors are different from those of others, also known as the theory of mind. Initially when children begin to have social interactions with others, mainly the caregivers, they misinterpret that they are one entity, because they are together for a long duration of time and the caregivers often provide for the children's needs. For example, a child may misattribute the act of their mother reaching to retrieve an object that they point to as a sign that they are the same entity, when in fact they are actually separate individuals. As early as 15 months old, children show a mix of egocentrism and theory of mind when an agent acts inconsistently with how the children expect him to behave. In this study the children observed the experimenter place a toy inside one of two boxes, but did not see when the experimenter removed the toy from the original box and placed it in the other box, due to obstruction by a screen. When the screen was removed the children watched the experimenter reach to take the toy out of one of the boxes, yet because the children did not see the switching part, they looked at the experimenter's action much longer when she reached for the box opposite to the one she originally put the toy in. Not only does this show the existence of infants' memory capacity, but it also demonstrates how they have expectations based on their knowledge, as they are surprised when those expectations are not met.\n\nAccording to George Butterworth and Margaret Harris, during childhood, one is usually unable to distinguish between what is subjective and objective. According to Piaget, \"an egocentric child assumes that other people see, hear, and feel exactly the same as the child does.\"\n\nJean Piaget (1896–1980) developed a theory about the development of human intelligence, describing the stages of cognitive development. He claimed that early childhood is the time of pre-operational thought, characterized by children's inability to process logical thought. According to Piaget, one of the main obstacles to logic that children possess includes centration, \"the tendency to focus on one aspect of a situation to the exclusion of others.\" A particular type of centration is egocentrism – literally, \"self-centeredness.\" Piaget claimed that young children are egocentric, capable of contemplating the world only from their personal perspective. For example, a three-year-old presented his mother a model truck as her birthday present; \"he had carefully wrapped the present and gave it to his mother with an expression that clearly showed he expected her to love it.\" The three-year-old boy had not chosen the present out of selfishness or greediness, but he simply failed to realize that, from his mother's perspective, she might not enjoy the model car as much as he would.\n\nPiaget was concerned with two aspects of egocentricity in children: language and morality. He believed that egocentric children use language primarily for communication with oneself. Piaget observed that children would talk to themselves during play, and this egocentric speech was merely the child's thoughts. He believed that this speech had no special function; it was used as a way of accompanying and reinforcing the child's current activity. He theorized that as the child matures cognitively and socially the amount of egocentric speech used would be reduced. However, Vygotsky felt that egocentric speech has more meaning, as it allows the child's growth in social speech and high mental development. In addition to Piaget's theory, he believed that when communicating with others, the child believes that others know everything about the topic of discussion and become frustrated when asked to give further detail.\n\nPiaget also believed that egocentrism affects the child's sense of morality. Due to egocentrism, the child is only concerned with the final outcome of an event rather than another's intentions. For example, if someone breaks the child's toy, the child would not forgive the other and the child would not be able to understand that the person who broke the toy did not intend to break it. This phenomenon can also be backed by the evidence from the findings of the case study by Nelson, who studied the use of motives and outcomes by young children as aiding to form their moral judgements.\n\nPiaget did a test to investigate egocentrism called the mountains study. He put children in front of a simple plaster mountain range and then asked them to pick from four pictures the view that he, Piaget, would see. The younger children before age seven picked the picture of the view they themselves saw and were therefore found to lack the ability to appreciate a viewpoint different from their own. In other words, their way of reasoning was egocentric. Only when entering the concrete-operational stage of development at age seven to twelve, children became less egocentric and could appreciate viewpoints other than their own. In other words, they were capable of cognitive perspective-taking. However, the mountains test has been criticized for judging only the child's visuo-spatial awareness, rather than egocentrism. A follow up study involving police dolls showed that even young children were able to correctly say what the interviewer would see. It is thought that Piaget overestimated the extent of egocentrism in children. Egocentrism is thus the child's inability to see other people's viewpoints, not to be confused with selfishness. The child at this stage of cognitive development assumes that their view of the world is the same as other peoples.\n\nIn addition, a more well-known experiment by Wimmer and Perner (1983) called the false-belief task demonstrates how children show their acquisition of theory of mind (ToM) as early as 4 years old. In this task, children see a scenario where one character hides a marble in a basket, walks out of the scene, and another character that is present takes out the marble and put it in a box. Knowing that the first character did not see the switching task, children were asked to predict where the first character would look to find the marble. The results show that children younger than 4 answer that the character would look inside the box, because they have the superior knowledge of where the marble actually is. It shows egocentric thinking in early childhood because they thought that even if the character itself did not see the entire scenario, it has the same amount of knowledge as oneself and therefore should look inside the box to find the marble. As children start to acquire ToM, their ability to recognize and process others' beliefs and values overrides the natural tendency to be egocentric.\n\nAlthough most of the research completed on the study of egocentrism is primarily focused on early childhood development, it has been found to also occur during adolescence. David Elkind was one of the first to discover the presence of egocentrism in adolescence and late adolescence. He argues, \"the young adolescent, because of the physiological metamorphosis he is undergoing, is primarily concerned with himself. Accordingly, since he fails to differentiate between what others are thinking about and his own mental preoccupations, he assumes that other people are obsessed with his behavior and appearance as he is himself.\" This shows that the adolescent is exhibiting egocentrism, by struggling to distinguish whether or not, in actuality, others are as fond of them as they might think because their own thoughts are so prevalent. Adolescents consider themselves as \"unique, special, and much more socially significant than they actually are.\"\n\nElkind also created terms to help describe the egocentric behaviors exhibited by the adolescent population such as what he calls an imaginary audience, the personal fable, and the invincibility fable. Usually when an egocentric adolescent is experiencing an imaginary audience, it entails the belief that there is an audience captivated and constantly present to an extent of being overly interested about the egocentric individual. Personal fable refers to the idea that many teenagers believe their thoughts, feelings, and experiences are unique and more extreme than anyone else's. In the invincibility fable, the adolescent believes in the idea that he or she is immune to misfortune and cannot be harmed by things that might defeat a normal person. Egocentrism in adolescence is often viewed as a negative aspect of their thinking ability because adolescents become consumed with themselves and are unable to effectively function in society due to their skewed version of reality and cynicism.\n\nThere are various reasons as to why adolescents experience egocentrism:\n\nA study was completed on 163 undergraduate students to examine the adolescent egocentrism in college students. Students were asked to complete a self-report questionnaire to determine the level of egocentrism present. The questions simply asked for the reactions that students had to seemingly embarrassing situations. It was found that adolescent egocentrism was more prevalent in the female population than the male. This again exemplifies the idea that egocentrism is present in even late adolescence.\n\nResults from other studies have come to the conclusion that egocentrism does not present itself in some of the same patterns as it was found originally. More recent studies have found that egocentrism is prevalent in later years of development unlike Piaget's original findings that suggested that egocentrism is only present in early childhood development. Egocentrism is especially dominant in early adolescence, particularly when adolescents encounter new environments, such as a new school or a new peer group.\n\nIn addition, throughout adolescence egocentrism contributes to the development of self-identity; in order to achieve self-identity, adolescents go through different pathways of \"crisis\" and \"commitment\" stages, and higher self-identity achievement was found to be correlated with heightened egocentrism.\n\nThe prevalence of egocentrism in the individual has been found to decrease between the ages of 15 and 16. However, adults are also susceptible to be egocentric or to have reactions or behaviours that can be categorized as egocentric.\n\nFrankenberger tested adolescents (14–18 years old) and adults (20–89) on their levels of egocentrism and self-consciousness. It was found that egocentric tendencies had extended to early adulthood and these tendencies were also present in the middle adult years.\n\nBaron and Hanna looked at 152 participants and tested to see how the presence of depression affected egocentrism. They tested adults between the ages of 18 and 25 and found that the participants who suffered from depression showed higher levels of egocentrism than those who did not.\n\nFinally, Surtees and Apperly found that when adults were asked to judge the number of dots they see and the number of dots the avatar in the computer simulation sees, the presence of the avatar interfered with the participants' judgment-making during the trials. Specifically, these were the trials where the number of dots seen by the participant was inconsistent from the number of dots the avatar saw. Such effect on the participants diminished when the avatar was replaced with a simple yellow or blue line, which concluded that somehow the avatar having a personal attribute implicitly caused the participants to include its \"vision\" into their own decision making. That said, they made more errors when they saw prompts such as \"the avatar sees N\" when N was the number of dots the participant saw and not the avatar, which shows that egocentric thought is still predominant in making quick judgments, even if the adults are well aware that their thoughts could differ from others.\n\n"}
{"id": "1928686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1928686", "title": "Etheric body", "text": "Etheric body\n\nThe etheric body, ether-body, æther body, a name given by neo-Theosophy to a vital body or subtle body propounded in esoteric philosophies as the first or lowest layer in the \"human energy field\" or aura. It is said to be in immediate contact with the physical body, to sustain it and connect it with \"higher\" bodies.\n\nThe English term \"etheric\" in this context seems to derive from the Theosophical writings of Madame Blavatsky, but its use was formalised by C.W. Leadbeater and Annie Besant due to the elimination of Hindu terminology from the system of seven planes and bodies. (Adyar School of Theosophy).\n\nThe term gained some general popularity after the 1914-18 war, Walter John Kilner having adopted it for a layer of the \"human atmosphere\" which, as he claimed in a popular book, could be rendered visible to the naked eye by means of certain exercises.\n\nThe classical element Aether of Platonic and Aristotlean physics continued in Victorian scientific proposals of a Luminiferous ether as well as the cognate chemical substance ether. According to Theosophists and Alice Bailey the etheric body inhabits an etheric plane which corresponds to the four higher subplanes of the physical plane. The intended reference is therefore to some extremely rarefied matter, analogous in usage to the word \"spirit\" (originally \"breath\"). In selecting it as the term for a clearly defined concept in an Indian-derived metaphysical system, the Theosophists aligned it with ideas such as the prana-maya-kosha (sheath made of prana, subtle breath or life-force) of Vedantic thought.\n\nIn popular use it is often confounded with the related concept of the astral body as for example in the term astral projection - the early Theosophists had called it the \"astral double\". Others prefer to speak of the \"lower and higher astral\".\n\nLinga sarira is a Sanskrit term for the invisible double of the human body, the etheric body or etheric double (or astral body in some Theosophical concepts). It is one of the seven principles of the human being, according to Theosophical philosophy.\n\nRudolf Steiner, the founder of Anthroposophy, often referred to the etheric body (\"Ätherleib\" or \"Life Body\") in association with the etheric formative forces and the evolution of man and the cosmos. According to him, it can be perceived by a person gifted with clairvoyance as being of \"peach-blossom color\".\n\nSteiner considered the etheric reality or life principle as quite distinct from the physical material reality, being intermediate between the physical world and the astral or soul world.\nThe etheric body can be characterised as the life force also present in the plant kingdom. It maintains the physical body's form until death. At that time, it separates from the physical body and the physical reverts to natural disintegration.\n\nAccording to Max Heindel's Rosicrucian writings, the etheric body, composed of four ethers, is called the \"Vital Body\" since the ether is the way of ingress for vital force from the Sun and the field of agencies in nature which promote such vital activities as assimilation, growth, and propagation. It is an exact counterpart of our physical body, molecule for molecule, and organ for organ, but it is of the opposite polarity. It is slightly larger, extending about one and one-half inches beyond the periphery of the physical body.\n\nSamael Aun Weor teaches that the vital body is the tetra-dimensional part of the physical body and the foundation of organic life. He states that in the second Initiation of Fire, which is reached through working with sexual magic with a spouse, the Kundalini rises in the vital body. Then the initiate learns how to separate the two superior ethers from the others in order for them to serve as a vehicle to travel out of the physical body.\n\nOn the Tree of Life of the Kabbalah, the vital body is often related to the sephirah Yesod.\n\nIn the teachings of Theosophy, Devas are regarded as living either in the atmospheres of the planets of the solar system (\"Planetary Angels\") or inside the Sun (\"Solar Angels\") (presumably other planetary systems and stars have their own angels) and they help to guide the operation of the processes of nature such as the process of evolution and the growth of plants; their appearance is reputedly like colored flames about the size of a human being. It is believed by Theosophists that devas can be observed when the third eye is activated. Some (but not most) devas originally incarnated as human beings.\n\nIt is believed by Theosophists that nature spirits, elementals (gnomes, ondines, sylphs, and salamanders), and fairies can also be observed when the third eye is activated. It is maintained by Theosophists that these less evolutionarily developed beings have never been previously incarnated as human beings; they are regarded as on a separate line of spiritual evolution called the “deva evolution”; eventually, as their souls advance as they reincarnate, it is believed they will incarnate as devas.\n\nIt is asserted by Theosophists that all of the above-mentioned beings possess etheric bodies (but no physical bodies) that are composed of \"etheric matter\", a type of matter finer and more pure that is composed of smaller particles than ordinary physical plane matter. (See the book \"Occult Chemistry\" by C.W. Leadbeater)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11838661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11838661", "title": "Exaggeration", "text": "Exaggeration\n\nExaggeration is a representation of something in an excessive manner. The exaggerator has been a familiar figure in Western culture since at least Aristotle's discussion of the alazon: 'the boaster is regarded as one who pretends to have distinguished qualities which he possesses either not at all or to a lesser degree than he pretends...exaggerating'.\n\nIt is the opposite of minimisation.\n\nWords or expressions associated with exaggeration include:\nContexts of exaggeration include:\n\nThe boasting and bragging by arrogant or manipulative people has been sent up on stage since the first appearance of the alazon – 'a stock character in Greek comedy'. Inflated praise in the form of flattery and puffery has a similarly lengthy history.\n\nAmplifying achievements, obstacles and problems to seek attention is an everyday occurrence, as 'in \"exaggerating\" what one feels by magnifying the emotional expression: this is the ploy used by the six-year-old who dramatically twists her face into a pathetic frown, lips quivering, as she runs to complain to her mother about being teased'.\n\nExaggerating is also a type of deception, as well as a means of malingering – magnifying small injuries or discomforts as an excuse to avoid responsibilities.\n\nCharacter assassination typically involves deliberate exaggeration or manipulation of facts.\n\nCognitive behavioral therapy views \"magnification\" (as opposed to \"minimization\") as unconscious, unrealistic mental processing or cognitive distortion, which can take the form of probability overestimation or of catastrophizing. This is better known as 'making a big deal out of nothing.' 'Whereas probability overestimation refers to exaggerating the \"likelihood\" of an event, catastrophizing refers to exaggerating the \"importance\" of the event'. Closely related 'is \"overgeneralizing\", where one takes a single negative event and see it as a never-ending pattern of defeat'.\n\nAnother form of cognitive exaggeration is inflation of the difficulty of achieving a goal after attaining it, possibly to improve self-esteem.\n\nIn depression, exaggerated all-or-nothing thinking can form a self-reinforcing cycle: these thoughts might be called \"emotional amplifiers\" because, as they go around and around, they become more intense. Here are some typical all-or-nothing thoughts:\n\nReaction formation () is believed to be a defense mechanism in which emotions and impulses which are anxiety-producing or perceived to be unacceptable are mastered by exaggeration of the directly opposing tendency.\n\nIn cognitive therapy, decatastrophizing or decatastrophization is a cognitive restructuring technique to treat cognitive distortions, such as magnification and catastrophizing, commonly seen in psychological disorders like anxiety and psychosis.\n\nPsychoanalysis considered that neurotic exaggerations were the products of displacement – overvaluations for example being used to maintain a repression elsewhere. Thus a conflict over ambivalence may be resolved by means of exaggerating one's love for a person so as to keep an unconscious hatred in further check.\n\nThe grandiose sense of self-importance observed in narcissists also uses exaggeration to thwart any recognition of a moderate fallibility, seeing any departure from complete success as total and hopeless failure.\n\n\"Self-dramatization, theatricality, and \"exaggerated\" expression of emotion\" can be observed in those with histrionic personality disorder and other Cluster B personality disorders; while \"catastrophizing\" is associated with depressive, neurotic or paranoid behavior – focusing on the worst possible outcome, however unlikely, or thinking that a situation is unbearable or impossible when it is really just uncomfortable.\n\nMünchausen syndrome by proxy is a controversial term for a behavior pattern in which a caregiver deliberately exaggerates, fabricates, or induces physical, psychological, behavioral, or mental health problems in those who are in their care.\n\nAlarmism is excessive or exaggerated alarm about a real or imagined threat e.g. the increases in deaths from infectious disease. The alarmist person is subject to the cognitive distortion of catastrophizing – of always expecting the worst of possible futures.\n\n'Some theoreticians of the comic consider exaggeration to be a universal comic device'. It may take different forms in different genres, but all rely on the fact that 'the easiest way to make things laughable is to exaggerate to the point of absurdity their salient traits'.\n\nA caricature can refer to a portrait that exaggerates or distorts the essence of a person or thing to create an easily identifiable visual likeness: 'disproportionately increasing and emphasizing the defects of the features'. In literature, a caricature is a description of a person using exaggeration of some characteristics and oversimplification of others.\n\nSlapstick is the recourse to humor involving exaggerated physical activity which exceeds the boundaries of common sense. These exaggerated depictions are often found in cartoons, and light film comedies aimed at younger audiences.\n\nParadoxical laughter is an exaggerated expression of humor which is unwarranted by external events. It may be uncontrollable laughter which may be recognised as inappropriate by the person involved. Freud considered 'the compulsive laughter which so often occurs on mournful occasions' the by-product of ambivalence.\n\nThe boastful soldier or Miles Gloriosus has for thousands of years formed part of the Western stage. 'The original \"miles gloriosus\" in Plautus is a son of Jove and Venus who has killed an elephant with his fist and seven thousand men in one day's fighting. In other words, he is trying to put on a good show: the exuberance of his boasting helps to put the play over'.\n\nOveracting is the exaggeration of gestures and speech when acting. It may be unintentional, particularly in the case of a bad actor, or be required for the role. For the latter, it is commonly used in comical situations or to stress the evil characteristics of a villain. Since the perception of acting quality differs between people the extent of overacting can be subjective.\n\nExaggeration is an effect especially useful for animation, as perfect imitation of reality can look static and dull in cartoons. The level of exaggeration depends on whether one seeks realism or a particular style, like a caricature or the style of a specific artist. The classical definition of exaggeration, employed by Disney, was to remain true to reality, just presenting it in a wilder, more extreme form. Other forms of exaggeration can involve the supernatural or surreal, alterations in the physical features of a character; or elements in the storyline itself. It is important to employ a certain level of restraint when using exaggeration. If a scene contains several elements, there should be a balance in how those elements are exaggerated in relation to each other, to avoid confusing or overawing the viewer.\n\nA shock jock is a type of radio broadcaster or disc jockey who entertains listeners or attracts attention using humor and/or melodramatic exaggeration that some portion of the listening audience may find offensive.\n\nAlthough the boaster (alazon) is primarily a comic figure, 'the \"alazon\" may be one aspect of the tragic hero as well: the touch of \"miles gloriosus\" in Tamburlaine, even in Othello, is unmistakable, as is the touch of the obsessed philosopher in Faustus and Hamlet'.\n\n'\"Expressionist art\"...attempted to intensify the expression of feeling and attitude by exaggeration'. In its wake, even the 'new and hard realism...kept much of the distortion and exaggeration which had been one of the chief devices of earlier Expressionism'.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3718113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3718113", "title": "Graphic violence", "text": "Graphic violence\n\nGraphic violence is the depiction of especially vivid, brutal and realistic acts of violence in visual media such as literature, film, television, and video games. It may be real, simulated live action, or animated.\n\nThe \"graphic\" in graphic violence is a synonym for \"explicit\", referring to the clear and unabashed nature of the violence portrayed; this is what differentiates true graphic violence from lesser forms of violence in media productions, including \"real\" violence, \"cartoon\" violence and \"fantasy\" violence.\n\nGraphic violence generally consists of any clear and uncensored depiction of various violent acts. Commonly included depictions include murder, assault with a deadly weapon, accidents which result in death or severe injury, suicide, and torture. In all cases, it is the explicitness of the violence and the injury inflicted which results in it being labeled \"graphic\". In fictional depictions, appropriately realistic plot elements are usually included to heighten the sense of realism (i.e. blood effects, prop weapons, CGI). In order to qualify for the \"graphic\" designation, the violence depicted must generally be of a particularly unmitigated and unshielded nature; an example would be a video of a man being shot by me, bleeding from the wound, and crumpling to the ground calling for his mother.\n\nGraphic violence arouses strong emotions, ranging from titillation and excitement to utter revulsion and even terror, depending on the mindset of the viewer and the method in which it is presented. A certain degree of graphic violence has become \"de rigueur\" in adult \"action\" genre, and it is presented in an amount and manner carefully deliberated to excite the emotions of the target demographic without inducing disgust or revulsion. Even more extreme and grotesque acts of graphic violence (generally revolving around mutilation) are often used in the horror genre in order to inspire even stronger emotions of fear and shock (which the viewing demographic would presumably be seeking).\n\nIt is a highly controversial topic. Many believe that exposure to graphic violence leads to desensitization to committing acts of violence in person. It has led to censorship in extreme cases, and regulation in others. One notable case was the creation of the US Entertainment Software Rating Board in 1994. Many nations now require varying degrees of approval from television, movie, and software rating boards before a work can be released to the public.\n\nOn the other hand, some critics claim that watching violent media content can be cathartic, providings \"acceptable outlets for anti-social impulses.\"\n\nGraphic violence is used frequently in horror, action, and crime films. Several of these films were banned from certain countries for their violence. The snuff film takes horror to its furthest extreme as torture and murder are not simulated.\n\nViolence in films is not an old topic, recently a study presented in an annual American Academy of Pediatrics conference showed that the \"good guys\" in superhero movies were on average more violent than the villains, potentially sending a strongly negative message to young viewers. \n\nNews media on television and online video frequently cover violent acts. The coverage may be preceded with a warning, stating that the footage may be disturbing to some viewers.\n\nSometimes graphic images are censored, by blurring or blocking a portion of the image, cutting the violent portions out of an image sequence or by removing certain portions of film footage from viewing. However, more and more throughout the years, it has been a ploy for media companies to attract more and more viewers by trivializing various events like the ones mentioned above for shock appeal.\n\nGraphic and gory violence has started appearing in music videos in recent times, an example being the controversial music video for the song \"Rock DJ\" by British rock vocalist Robbie Williams, which features self-mutilation. Another example of a music video containing strong violence is the music video for the song \"Hurricane\" by American rock band Thirty Seconds to Mars and \"Happiness in Slavery\" by American industrial rock group Nine Inch Nails. The music video for \"Forced Gender Reassignment\" by American deathgrind band Cattle Decapitation displays such intense graphic violence that it is not hosted by many popular video hosting sites like YouTube and Dailymotion and is only hosted by Bloody Disgusting.\n\nViolent content has been a central part of video game controversy. Because violence in video games is interactive and not passive, critics such as Dave Grossman and Jack Thompson argue that violence in games hardens children to unethical acts, calling first-person shooter games \"murder simulators\", although no conclusive evidence has supported this belief.\n\nAn example is the display of \"gibs\" (short for giblets), little bits or giant chunks of internal organs, flesh, and bone, when a character is killed.\n\nOn the internet, several sites dedicated to recordings of real graphic violence, referred to as \"gore\", exist, such as Bestgore.com and Goregrish.com. Furthermore, many content-aggregator sites such as Reddit or imageboards and 4chan have their own subsites which are dedicated to or allow that kind of content. Some of those sites also require that gore material to be marked as it, often by the internet slang \"NSFL\" (shorthand for \"not safe for life\"). This kind of media might depict reality footage of war, car crashes and other accidents, decapitations, suicide, terrorism, murder, or executions. \n\n"}
{"id": "254204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254204", "title": "Honor system", "text": "Honor system\n\nAn honor system or honesty system is a philosophical way of running a variety of endeavors based on trust, honor, and honesty. Something that operates under the rule of the \"honor system\" is usually something that does not have strictly enforced rules governing its principles. In British English, it would more often be called a \"trust system\" and should not be confused with the British honours system.\n\nThe honor system is also a system granting freedom from customary surveillance (as to students or prisoners) with the understanding that those who are so freed will be bound by their honor to observe regulations (e.g. prison farms are operated under the honor system), and will therefore not abuse the trust placed in them.\n\nA person engaged in an honor system has a strong negative concept of breaking or going against it. The negatives may include community shame, loss of status, loss of a personal sense of integrity and pride or in extreme situations, banishment from one's community.\n\nThere are various types of honor systems that may be employed. A total honor system makes no checks on its users to verify their honesty, thereby easily allowing the system to be cheated. Though the system may face occasional audits, there would be no way thereafter of learning the identity of the violator. Some are simply contingent upon the truthfulness presumed of users; others are present when the losses caused by those who may cheat the system are less costly than a higher security system.\n\nOther honor systems employ random checks of selected users to ensure they are in compliance. A minority of users will undergo this check, while the remainder will be given a chance to get away with a violation. In these cases, the management of the system hopes that the fear of getting checked will coerce users into compliance.\n\nIn some places, public transport such as trains, trams and/or buses operate on an honor system called proof-of-payment. The local government authorities may find it impractical or overly expensive to install ticket-checking turnstiles at every station, and instead rely on casual human surveillance to check if all riders possess tickets. In such a system one could thus ride the train or bus without paying, and simply hope to be lucky enough to avoid a random ticket check during the trip. Such behavior is impossible for an honor system by itself to prevent. High penalties tend to be used to offset the financial cost of non-paying riders.\n\nSome toll roads, including the Sawgrass Expressway near Fort Lauderdale, Florida, have unstaffed toll booths in which motorists are expected to pay their tolls. When a violation occurs, an alarm may sound, and the vehicle may be photographed, but .\nAt many Western airports, arriving international passengers are instructed by signs either to walk through one door (usually green) if they have nothing to declare, or a different door (usually red) if they have something to declare. Forcible screening is rare, though customs officers generally have authority to check persons suspected of falsely using the green channel. Items that must be declared commonly include cash, food, alcohol, luxury items, publications, weapons, tobacco, etc. Most other items, including personal belongings such as regular clothing, need not be declared. However, X-ray scans can reveal what items must be declared. \n\nSome hotels, mostly in continental Europe, operate an honesty bar, allowing guests to serve and record their own drinks and saving the cost of a night bartender. Patrons could theoretically lie about their drink consumption, and the hotel would have only limited powers to verify their claims. The concept of hotel \"mini-bars\" in the United States and Canada is similar, although the stock is quantified more carefully, making it difficult to lie. As well, most hotel minibars are now equipped with sensors which connect directly with the billing authority, making the honor system unnecessary.\n\nIn the Southern Californian recreational sport fishing industry, the honor system is widely used, particularly on open party fishing boats. When the cook is occupied or in his bunk, passengers are permitted to get drinks and snacks on their own, providing they mark their own galley tab.\n\nMany publicly funded museums and art galleries around the world ask for a certain \"suggested donation\" in exchange for admission. Patrons are almost never supervised during their donations, so there is no way of making sure the suggested minimum is being paid. Strictly speaking this is not an honor system, as no payment obligation actually exists (merely a suggested donation); a true honor system is one in which there is an obligation, but it is not enforced. However, these \"suggested donation\" schemes are often regarded as similar to an honor system, because they rely on the goodwill of patrons rather than the force of law.\n\nNational and State parks and some private parks often use an honor system to collect their admission fees. Rather than having a manned booth, they have a drop box known as an honesty box where money can be inserted, either directly, or in an envelope. Sometimes, the envelope contains a stub that is removed and placed on the guest's vehicle.\n\nA lot of land International borders do not thoroughly check all persons passing the checkpoints for required documents or contraband. When the security threat at the crossing is perceived by the nation's government to be low, checks may be conducted only on random persons or vehicles.\n\nThe first honor system in America was penned by Thomas Jefferson at the College of William and Mary, Jefferson's \"alma mater\". In some colleges, the honor system is used to administer tests unsupervised. Students are generally asked to sign an honor code statement that says they will not cheat or use unauthorized resources when taking the test. As an example, at Vanderbilt University students taking examinations are required to sign and include the following pledge: \"On my honor as a student I have neither given nor received aid on this examination\". Any student caught in violation of the Honor Code is referred to the Honor Council which investigates and determines the appropriate action, which can range from failing the course to expulsion from the University. At the University of Virginia a student taking an examination is also required to sign a pledge not to give or receive aid and there is but one penalty for transgression of the honor code, and that is dismissal from the University. Texas A&M also has an Honor System which states, Aggies do not lie, cheat or steal or tolerate those who do. This is listed at the beginning of all tests. Any student that does not follow the code is remanded to the Honor council so they can determine the severity of the case and how the student should be punished or if expulsion is necessary. The students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill also maintain a student-run honor system. Students maintain the integrity of the university by pledging not to cheat, steal or lie. Unlike the University of Virginia, the honor system at Chapel Hill allows for different sanctions, ranging from probation to expulsion. A single-sanction Honor Code exists at the Virginia Military Institute, where a \"drum out\" ceremony is still carried out upon a cadet's dismissal.\n\nWashington and Lee University maintains an Honor System that was introduced by General Robert E. Lee, who stated \"We have but one rule here, and it is that every student must be a gentleman.\" The Washington & Lee Honor System is entirely administered through the student body. It is one of the few universities in the United States to have a non-codified system. As a result, students decide what constitutes a breach of honor. These breaches are commonly named as lying, cheating, or stealing, but what constitutes an honor violation is open to the interpretation of the current student body. A single sanction of dismissal is enforced when a student is found guilty of an honor violation.\n\nThe California Institute of Technology implements an honor code that states \"No member of the Caltech community shall take unfair advantage of any other member of the Caltech community.\" Applications of this code range from professors trusting the students not to cheat with unsupervised take-home exams, laptops and bikes left unsecured in the dormitory lounges and courtyards (though the lounges and courtyards are secured against people who are not members of the Caltech community), and the food service trusting the students not to conduct food-hoarding raids during open kitchen hours. The primary enforcement of the Caltech Honor Code is through student-run councils, but a few members of the Caltech faculty are involved.\n\nSome lower security inmates at prisons are granted furloughs and allowed to temporarily leave the boundaries of the penitentiary for various reasons with the expectation they will return voluntarily when due without absconding. The reasons for departure may be for employment, education, recreation, or attending family events (such as weddings or funerals).\n\nAnother example can be seen in fundraising drives. Many charities distribute boxes of confectionery to businesses, which are placed in waiting rooms or similar for people to purchase items from. The confectionery is free to be removed by anyone who wishes to take it, and there is no enforcing of payment other than through the expectation of honesty. Indeed, most such boxes of confectionery bear the comment \"Your honesty is appreciated\" near where money is deposited.\n\nIn many places of worship, those partaking in events with compulsory fees are expected to pay their dues, though most institutions such as these do not enforce payment. There is a general assumption of trust in most religious settings.\n\nSome supermarket chains allow customers to scan their own groceries with handheld barcode readers while placing them in their own carts (see self-checkout). While the system gives customers the ability to place groceries in their bags without paying, and customers can be randomly audited, participating supermarkets have reported that this experimental system has not increased the amount of shoplifting.\n\nMany hardware superstores, including Home Depot, allow customers to place small items, such as screws, into bags, then label the bags along with the exact price and quantity of the item they are purchasing. The system, which can be easily cheated, is contingent upon the honesty of customers, and is labeled in many stores as an \"honor system.\"\n\nIn some countries, farmers leave bags of produce beside the road outside their houses with prices affixed. Passers-by pay by leaving cash in a container. In Ireland, New Zealand, Australia and the United Kingdom this is called the honesty box system. In other countries, small unmanned stores are run, where customers are able to enter, obtain what they need, and pay the bill in a secure container.\n\nIn the sport of airsoft, players rely on an honor system to tell whether or not an opponent is hit, because unlike paintballs, airsoft pellets leave no visible markings on clothing.\n\nTwo combat sports practiced by the Society for Creative Anachronism, Armored Combat and Rapier Combat, use an honor system to judge valid strikes. The individual who is hit is responsible for acknowledging if the impact was valid.\n\nDisc ultimate has historically relied on the honor system and encodes it as part of the “Spirit of the Game,” to the point where very few competitions use referees and players are allowed to call fouls on their opponents.\n\nSports that deliberately incorporate alternative sexualities, by necessity, rely on the honor system for enforcement. The National Gay Flag Football League limits heterosexual competition to 20% of a team's roster. Muggle quidditch requires a minimum number of players to be of a second gender, while allowing players to identify as any number of gender identities to qualify under the rule.\n\nIn many places where an honor system is used, it has been found to be cost-effective. Many businesses and organizations using an honor system have determined that the cost of maintaining staff to enforce proper payment outweighs the losses caused by the percentage of the population who are willing to cheat the system. In addition, efficiency is high when an honor system is used. For example, buses/trains do not have to wait to sell or check passenger tickets when boarding and can instead leave immediately, and customs green channels allow for much faster exits than if every passenger is routinely checked.\n\nFor the remainder of the population, the honor system gives a more welcoming feeling to customers. Those who are treated with trust may be more likely to return to the location, and thereby increase the amount of business.\n\nDeciding whether or not to obey an honor system can be a dilemma, especially if one places his/her personal financial self-interest above the interest of the institution they are patronizing. This can lead to a future negative impact towards their personal financial self-interest. Honor systems are often criticized for promoting laziness and bad behavior. Some have suggested it is paradoxical to ask people to obey a law if there is no apparent law.\n\n\n\nThe honor system also uses (Phycology of Deterrence), phycology of deterrence is basically doing right because of the fear of being punished."}
{"id": "601795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=601795", "title": "Impression management", "text": "Impression management\n\nImpression management is a conscious or subconscious process in which people attempt to influence the perceptions of other people about a person, object or event. They do so by regulating and controlling information in social interaction. It was first conceptualized by Erving Goffman in 1959 in \"The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life,\" and then was expanded upon in 1967. An example of impression management theory in play is in sports such as soccer. At an important game, a player would want to showcase themselves in the best light possible, because there are college recruiters watching. This person would have the flashiest pair of cleats and try and perform their best to show off their skills. Their main goal may be to impress the college recruiters in a way that maximizes their chances of being chosen for a college team rather than winning the game.\n\nImpression management is usually used synonymously with self-presentation, in which a person tries to influence the perception of their image. The notion of impression management was first applied to face-to-face communication, but then was expanded to apply to computer-mediated communication. The concept of impression management is applicable to academic fields of study such as psychology and sociology as well as practical fields such as corporate communication and media.\n\nThe foundation and the defining principles of impression management were created by Erving Goffman in \"The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life\". Impression management theory states that one tries to alter one's perception according to one's goals. In other words, the theory is about how individuals wish to present themselves, but in a way that satisfies their needs and goals. Goffman \"proposed to focus on how people in daily work situations present themselves and, in so doing, what they are doing to others\", and he was \"particularly interested in how a person guides and control how others form an impression of them and what a person may or may not do while performing before them\".\n\nA range of factors that govern impression management can be identified. It can be stated that impression management becomes necessary whenever there exists a kind of social situation, whether real or imaginary. Logically, the awareness of being a potential subject of monitoring is also crucial. Furthermore, the characteristics of a given social situation are important. Specifically, the surrounding cultural norms determine the appropriateness of particular nonverbal behaviours. The actions have to be appropriate to the targets, and within that culture, so that the kind of audience as well as the relation to the audience influences the way impression management is realized. A person's goals are another factor governing the ways and strategies of impression management. This refers to the content of an assertion, which also leads to distinct ways of presentation of aspects of the self. The degree of self-efficacy describes whether a person is convinced that it is possible to convey the intended impression.\n\nA new study finds that, all other things being equal, people are more likely to pay attention to faces that have been associated with negative gossip than those with neutral or positive associations.\nThe study contributes to a body of work showing that far from being objective, human perceptions are shaped by unconscious brain processes that determine what they \"choose\" to see or ignore—even before they become aware of it. The findings also add to the idea that the brain evolved to be particularly sensitive to \"bad guys\" or cheaters—fellow humans who undermine social life by deception, theft or other non-cooperative behavior.\n\nThere are many methods behind self-presentation, including self disclosure (identifying what makes you \"you\" to another person), managing appearances (trying to fit in), ingratiation, aligning actions (making one's actions seem appealing or understandable), and alter-casting (imposing identities on other people). These self-presentation methods can also be used on the corporate level as impression management.\n\nSelf-presentation is conveying information about oneself – or an image of oneself – to others. There are two types and motivations of self-presentation:\n\nSelf-presentation is expressive. Individuals construct an image of themselves to claim personal identity, and present themselves in a manner that is consistent with that image. If they feel like it is restricted, they often exhibit reactance or become defiant – try to assert their freedom against those who would seek to curtail self-presentation expressiveness. An example of this dynamic is the \"preacher's daughter\", whose suppressed personal identity and emotions cause an eventual backlash at her family and community.\n\n\nSelf-presentation can be either defensive or assertive strategies. Whereas defensive strategies include behaviours like avoidance of threatening situations or means of self-handicapping, assertive strategies refer to more active behaviour like the verbal idealisation of the self, the use of status symbols or similar practices.\n\nThese strategies play important roles in one's maintenance of self-esteem. One's self-esteem is affected by their evaluation of their own performance and their perception of how others react to their performance. As a result, people actively portray impressions that will elicit self-esteem enhancing reactions from others.\n\nGoffman argued in his 1967 book, \"Interaction ritual\", that people participate in social interactions by performing a \"line\", or \"pattern of verbal and nonverbal acts\", which is created and maintained by both the performer and the audience. By enacting a line effectively, the person gains positive social value, which is also called \"face\". The success of a social interaction will depend on whether the performer has the ability to maintain face. As a result, a person is required to display a kind of character by becoming \"someone who can be relied upon to maintain himself as an interactant, poised for communication, and to act so that others do not endanger themselves by presenting themselves as interactants to him\". Goffman analyses how a human being in \"ordinnary work situations presents himself and his activity to others, the ways in which he guides and controls the impression they form of him, and the kinds of things he may and may not do while sustaining his performance before them”.\n\nWhen Goffman turned to focus on people physically presented in a social interaction, the \"social dimension of impression management certainly extends beyond the specific place and time of engagement in the organization\". Impression management is \"a social activity that has individual and community implications\". We call it \"pride\" when a person displays a good showing from duty to himself, while we call it \"honor\" when he \"does so because of duty to wider social units, and receives support from these duties in doing so\".\n\nAnother approach to moral standards that Goffman pursues is the notion of \"rules of conduct\", which \"can be partially understood as obligations or moral constraints\". These rules may be substantive (involving laws, morality, and ethics) or ceremonial (involving etiquette). Rules of conduct play an important role when a relationship \"is asymmetrical and the expectations of one person toward another are hierarchical.\"\n\nGoffman presented impression management dramaturgically, explaining the motivations behind complex human performances within a social setting based on a play metaphor. Goffman's work incorporates aspects of a symbolic interactionist perspective, emphasizing a qualitative analysis of the interactive nature of the communication process. Impression management requires the physical presence of others. Performers who seek certain ends in their interest, must \"work to adapt their behavior in such a way as to give off the correct impression to a particular audience\" and \"implicitly ask that the audience take their performance seriously\". Goffman proposed that while among other people individual would always strive to control the impression that others form of him or her so that to achieve individual or social goals.\n\nThe actor, shaped by the environment and target audience, sees interaction as a performance. The objective of the performance is to provide the audience with an impression consistent with the desired goals of the actor. Thus, impression management is also highly dependent on the situation. In addition to these goals, individuals differ in responses from the interactive environment, some may be non-responsive to an audience's reactions while others actively respond to audience reactions in order to elicit positive results. These differences in response towards the environment and target audience are called self-monitoring. Another factor in impression management is self-verification, the act of conforming the audience to the person's self-concept.\n\nThe audience can be real or imaginary. IM style norms, part of the mental programming received through socialization, are so fundamental that we usually do not notice our expectations of them. While an actor (speaker) tries to project a desired image, an audience (listener) might attribute a resonant or discordant image. An example is provided by situations in which embarrassment occurs and threatens the image of a participant.\n\nGoffman proposes that performers \"can use dramaturgical discipline as a defense to ensure that the 'show' goes on without interruption.\" Goffman contends that dramaturgical discipline includes:\n\nIn business, \"managing impressions\" normally \"involves someone trying to control the image that a significant stakeholder has of them\". The ethics of impression management has been hotly debated on whether we should see it as an effective self-revelation or as cynical manipulation. Some people insist that impression management can reveal a truer version of the self by adopting the strategy of being transparent, which is a kind of openness. Because transparency \"can be provided so easily and because it produces information of value to the audience, it changes the nature of impression management from being cynically manipulative to being a kind of useful adaptation\".\n\nVirtue signalling is used within groups to criticize their own members for valuing outward appearance over substantive action (having a real or permanent, rather than apparent or temporary, existence).\n\nPsychological manipulation is a type of social influence that aims to change the behavior or perception of others through abusive, deceptive, or underhanded tactics. By advancing the interests of the manipulator, often at another's expense, such methods could be considered exploitative, abusive, devious, and deceptive. The process of manipulation involves bringing an unknowing victim under the domination of the manipulator, often using deception, and using the victim to serve their own purposes.\n\nMachiavellianism is a term that some social and personality psychologists use to describe a person's tendency to be unemotional, and therefore able to detach him or herself from conventional morality and hence to deceive and manipulate others. (See also Machiavellianism in the workplace.)\n\nSophism\nIn modern usage sophist and sophistry are redefined and used disparagingly. A sophism is a specious argument for displaying ingenuity in reasoning or for deceiving someone. A sophist is a person who reasons with clever but fallacious and deceptive arguments.\n\nCorporate jargon\nVariously known as corporate speak, corporate lingo, business speak, business jargon, management speak, workplace jargon, or commercialese, is the jargon often used in large corporations, bureaucracies, and similar workplaces.[1][2] The use of corporate jargon, also known as \"corporatese\", is criticised for its lack of clarity as well as for its tedium, making meaning and intention opaque and understanding difficult.\n\nThe social psychologist, Edward E. Jones, brought the study of impression management to the field of psychology during the 1960s and extended it to include people's attempts to control others' impression of their personal characteristics. His work sparked an increased attention towards impression management as a fundamental interpersonal process.\n\nThe concept of self is important to the theory of impression management as the images people have of themselves shape and are shaped by social interactions Our self-concept develops from social experience early in life. Schlenker (1980) further suggests that children anticipate the effect that their behaviours will have on others and how others will evaluate them. They control the impressions they might form on others, and in doing so they control the outcomes they obtain from social interactions.\n\nSocial identity refers to how people are defined and regarded in social interactions . Individuals use impression management strategies to influence the social identity they project to others. The identity that people establish influences their behaviour in front of others, others' treatment of them and the outcomes they receive. Therefore, in their attempts to influence the impressions others form of themselves, a person plays an important role in affecting his social outcomes.\n\nSocial interaction is the process by which we act and react to those around us. In a nutshell, social interaction includes those acts people perform toward each other and the responses they give in return. The most basic function of self-presentation is to define the nature of a social situation (Goffman, 1959). Most social interactions are very role governed. Each person has a role to play, and the interaction proceeds smoothly when these roles are enacted effectively. People also strive to create impressions of themselves in the minds of others in order to gain material and social rewards (or avoid material and social punishments).\n\nUnderstanding how one's impression management behavior might be interpreted by others can also serve as the basis for smoother interactions and as a means for solving some of the most insidious communication problems among individuals of different racial/ethnic and gender backgrounds.\n\n\"People are sensitive to how they are seen by others and use many forms of impression management to compel others to react to them in the ways they wish\" (Giddens, 2005, p. 142). An example of this concept is easily illustrated through cultural differences. Different cultures have diverse thoughts and opinions on what is considered beautiful or attractive. For example, Americans tend to find tan skin attractive, but in Indonesian culture, pale skin is more desirable.\n\nAnother illustration of how people attempt to control how others perceive them is portrayed through the clothing they wear. A person who is in a leadership position strives to be respected and in order to control and maintain the impression. This illustration can also be adapted for a cultural scenario. The clothing people choose to wear says a great deal about the person and the culture they represent. For example, most Americans are not overly concerned with conservative clothing. Most Americans are content with tee shirts, shorts, and showing skin. The exact opposite is true on the other side of the world. \"Indonesians are both modest and conservative in their attire\" (Cole, 1997, p. 77).\n\nCompanies use cross-cultural training (CCT) to facilitate effective cross-cultural interaction. CCT can be defined as any procedure used to increase an individual's ability to cope with and work in a foreign environment. Training employees in culturally consistent and specific impression management (IM) techniques provide the avenue for the employee to consciously switch from an automatic, home culture IM mode to an IM mode that is culturally appropriate and acceptable. Second, training in IM reduces the uncertainty of interaction with FNs and increases employee's ability to cope by reducing unexpected events.\n\nImpression management theory can also be used in health communication. It can be used to explore how professionals 'present' themselves when interacting on hospital wards and also how they employ front stage and backstage settings in their collaborative work.\n\nIn the hospital wards, Goffman's front stage and backstage performances are divided into 'planned' and 'ad hoc' rather than 'official' and 'unofficial' interactions.\n\nPlanned front stage is the structured collaborative activities such as ward rounds and care conferences which took place in the presence of patients and/or carers.\n\nAd hoc front stage is the unstructured or unplanned interprofessional interactions that took place in front of patients/carers or directly involved patients/carers.\n\nPlanned backstage is the structured MDT meetings in which professionals gathered in a private area of the ward, in the absence of patients, to discuss management plans for patients under their care.\n\nAd hoc backstage is the use of corridors and other ward spaces for quick conversations between professionals in the absence of patients/carers.\n\nOffstage is the social activities between and among professional groups/individuals outside of the hospital context.\n\nResults show that interprofessional interactions in this setting are often based less on planned front stage activities than on ad hoc backstage activities. While the former may, at times, help create and maintain an appearance of collaborative interprofessional 'teamwork', conveying a sense of professional togetherness in front of patients and their families, they often serve little functional practice. These findings have implications for designing ways to improve interprofessional practice on acute hospital wards where there is no clearly defined interprofessional team, but rather a loose configuration of professionals working together in a collaborative manner around a particular patient. In such settings, interventions that aim to improve both ad hoc as well as planned forms of communication may be more successful than those intended to only improve planned communication.\n\nThe hyperpersonal model of computer-mediated communication (CMC) posits that users exploit the technological aspects of CMC in order to enhance the messages they construct to manage impressions and facilitate desired relationships. The most interesting aspect of the advent of CMC is how it reveals basic elements of interpersonal communication, bringing into focus fundamental processes that occur as people meet and develop relationships relying on typed messages as the primary mechanism of expression. \"Physical features such as one's appearance and voice provide much of the information on which people base first impressions face-to-face, but such features are often unavailable in CMC. Various perspectives on CMC have suggested that the lack of nonverbal cues diminishes CMC's ability to foster impression formation and management, or argued impressions develop nevertheless, relying on language and content cues. One approach that describes the way that CMC's technical capacities work in concert with users' impression development intentions is the hyperpersonal model of CMC (Walther, 1996). As receivers, CMC users idealize partners based on the circumstances or message elements that suggest minimal similarity or desirability. As senders, CMC users selectively self-present, revealing attitudes and aspects of the self in a controlled and socially desirable fashion. The CMC channel facilitates editing, discretion, and convenience, and the ability to tune out environmental distractions and re-allocate cognitive resources in order to further enhance one's message composition. Finally, CMC may create dynamic feedback loops wherein the exaggerated expectancies are confirmed and reciprocated through mutual interaction via the bias-prone communication processes identified above.\"\n\nAccording to O'Sullivan's (2000) impression management model of communication channels, individuals will prefer to use mediated channels rather than face-to-face conversation in face-threatening situations. Within his model, this trend is due to the channel features that allow for control over exchanged social information. The present paper extends O'Sullivan's model by explicating information control as a media affordance, arising from channel features and social skills, that enables an individual to regulate and restrict the flow of social information in an interaction, and present a scale to measure it. One dimension of the information control scale, expressive information control, positively predicted channel preference for recalled face-threatening situations. This effect remained after controlling for social anxiousness and power relations in relationships. O'Sullivan's model argues that some communication channels may help individuals manage this struggle and therefore be more preferred as those situations arise. It was based on an assumption that channels with features that allow fewer social cues, such as reduced nonverbal information or slower exchange of messages, invariably afford an individual with an ability to better manage the flow of a complex, ambiguous, or potentially difficult conversations. Individuals manage what information about them is known, or isn't known, to control other's impression of them. Anyone who has given the bathroom a quick cleaning when they anticipate the arrival of their mother-in-law (or date) has managed their impression. For an example from information and communication technology use, inviting someone to view a person's Webpage before a face-to-face meeting may predispose them to view the person a certain way when they actually meet.\n\nThe impression management perspective offers potential insight into how corporate stories could build the corporate brand, by influencing the impressions that stakeholders form of the organization. The link between themes and elements of corporate stories and IM strategies/behaviours indicates that these elements will influence audiences' perceptions of the corporate brand.\n\nCorporate storytelling is suggested to help demonstrate the importance of the corporate brand to internal and external stakeholders, and create a position for the company against competitors, as well as help a firm to bond with its employees (Roper and Fill, 2012). The corporate reputation is defined as a stakeholder's perception of the organization (Brown et al., 2006), and Dowling (2006) suggests that if the story causes stakeholders to perceive the organization as more authentic, distinctive, expert, sincere, powerful, and likeable, then it is likely that this will enhance the overall corporate reputation.\n\nImpression management theory is a relevant perspective to explore the use of corporate stories in building the corporate brand. The corporate branding literature notes that interactions with brand communications enable stakeholders to form an impression of the organization (Abratt and Keyn, 2012), and this indicates that IM theory could also therefore bring insight into the use of corporate stories as a form of communication to build the corporate brand. Exploring the IM strategies/behaviors evident in corporate stories can indicate the potential for corporate stories to influence the impressions that audiences form of the corporate brand.\n\nFirms use more subtle forms of influencing outsiders' impressions of firm performance and prospects, namely by manipulating the content and presentation of information in corporate documents with the purpose of \"distort[ing] readers\" perceptions of corporate achievements\" [Godfrey et al., 2003, p. 96]. In the accounting literature this is referred to as impression management. The opportunity for impression management in corporate reports is increasing. Narrative disclosures have become longer and more sophisticated over the last few years. This growing importance of descriptive sections in corporate documents provides firms with the opportunity to overcome information asymmetries by presenting more detailed information and explanation, thereby increasing their decision-usefulness. However, they also offer an opportunity for presenting financial performance and prospects in the best possible light, thus having the opposite effect. In addition to the increased opportunity for opportunistic discretionary disclosure choices, impression management is also facilitated in that corporate narratives are largely unregulated.\n\nThe medium of communication influences the actions taken in impression management. Self-efficacy can differ according to the fact whether the trial to convince somebody is made through face-to-face-interaction or by means of an e-mail. Communication via devices like telephone, e-mail or chat is governed by technical restrictions, so that the way people express personal features etc. can be changed. This often shows how far people will go.\n\nSocial networking users will employ protective self-presentations for image management. Users will use subtractive and repudiate strategies to maintain a desired image. Subtractive strategy is used to untag an undesirable photo on Social Networking Sites. In addition to un-tagging their name, some users will request the photo to be removed entirely. Repudiate strategy is used when a friend posts an undesirable comment about the user. In response to an undesired post, users may add another wall post as an innocence defense. Michael Stefanone states that \"self-esteem maintenance is an important motivation for strategic self-presentation online.\" Outside evaluations of their physical appearance, competence, and approval from others determines how social media users respond to pictures and wall posts. Unsuccessful self-presentation online can lead to rejection and criticism from social groups. Social networking sites like MySpace, Facebook, and StudiVZ are popular means of communicating personality. Recent theoretical and empirical considerations of homepages and Web 2.0 platforms show that impression management is a major motive for actively participating in social networking sites.\n\nOnline social media presence often varies with respect to users' age, gender, and body weight. While men and women tend to utilize social media in comparable degrees, both uses and capabilities vary depending on individual preferences as well perceptions of power or dominance. In terms of performance, men tend to display characteristics associated with masculinity as well as more commanding language styles. In much the same way, women tend to present feminine self-depictions and engage in more supportive language. \n\nWith respect to usage across age variances, many children develop digital and social media literacy skills around 7 or 8 and begin to form online social relationships via virtual environments designed for their age group. The years between thirteen and fifteen demonstrate high social media usage that begins to become more balanced with offline interactions as teens learn to navigate both their online and in-person identities which may often diverge from one another. Social media platforms often provide a great degree of social capital during the college years and later. During middle adulthood, users tend to display greater levels of confidence and mastery in their social media connections while senior users tend to utilize social media for educational and supportive purposes. These myriad factors influence how users will form and communicate their online personas.\n\nStudies also suggest that adolescents body weight and their health status might influence their self-presentation practices. For example, research focusing on adolescent patients with obesity indicate that particularly girls with obesity tend to present themselves in such a way that their weight is not in focus, or avoid presenting food items that are associated with overweight/obesity . \n\nAccording to Marwick, social profiles create implications such as \"context collapse\" for presenting oneself to the audience. The concept of ‘‘context collapse,’’ suggests that social technologies make it difficult to vary self-presentation based on environment or audience. \"Large sites such as Facebook and Twitter group friends, family members, coworkers, and acquaintances together under the umbrella term ‘‘friends’ \"\n\nOne arena where impression management is essential is in politics. \"Political impression management\" was coined in 1972 by sociologist Peter M. Hall, who defined the term as the art of making a candidate look electable and capable (Hall 1972). This is due in part to the importance of \"presidential\" candidates—appearance, image, and narrative are a key part of a campaign and thus impression management has always been a huge part of winning an election (Katz 2016). As social media becomes more and more a part of the political process, political impression management is becoming more challenging as the online image of the candidate often now lies in the hands of the voters themselves.\n\nImpression management can distort the results of empirical research that relies on interviews and surveys, a phenomenon commonly referred to as \"social desirability bias\". Impression management theory nevertheless constitutes a field of research on its own.\nWhen it comes to practical questions concerning public relations and the way organizations should handle their public image, the assumptions provided by impression management theory can also provide a framework.\n\nAn examination of different impression management strategies acted out by individuals who were facing criminal trials where the trial outcomes could range from a death sentence, life in prison or acquittal has been reported in the forensic literature.\nThe Perri and Lichtenwald article examined female psychopathic killers, whom as a group were highly motivated to manage the impression that attorneys, judges, mental health professions and ultimately, a jury had of the murderers and the murder they committed. It provides legal case illustrations of the murderers combining and/or switching from one impression management strategy such as ingratiation or supplication to another as they worked towards their goal of diminishing or eliminating any accountability for the murders they committed.\n\nSince the 1990s, researchers in the area of sport and exercise psychology have studied self-presentation. Concern about how one is perceived has been found to be relevant to the study of athletic performance. For example, anxiety may be produced when an athlete is in the presence of spectators. Self-presentational concerns have also been found to be relevant to exercise. For example, the concerns may elicit motivation to exercise.\n\nMore recent research investigating the effects of impression management on social behaviour showed that social behaviours (e.g. eating) can serve to convey a desired impression to others and enhance one's self-image. Research on eating has shown that people tend to eat less when they believe that they are being observed by others.\n\n"}
{"id": "58151566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58151566", "title": "InfoQ", "text": "InfoQ\n\nInformation quality (InfoQ) is the potential of a data set to achieve a specific (scientific or practical) goal using a given empirical analysis method.\n\nFormally, the definition is InfoQ = U(X,f|g) where X is the data, f the analysis method, g the goal and U the utility function. InfoQ is different from data quality and analysis quality, but is dependent on these components and on the relationship between them. \nInfoQ has been applied in a wide range of domains like healthcare, customer surveys, data science programs, advanced manufacturing and Bayesian network applications.\n\nKenett and Shmueli (2014) proposed eight dimensions to help assess InfoQ and various methods for increasing InfoQ: Data resolution, Data structure, Data integration, Temporal relevance, Chronology of data and goal, Generalization, Operationalization, Communication.\n"}
{"id": "51745258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51745258", "title": "Isolation to facilitate abuse", "text": "Isolation to facilitate abuse\n\nIsolation (physical, social or emotional) is often used to facilitate power and control over someone for an abusive purpose. This applies in many contexts such as workplace bullying, elder abuse, domestic abuse, child abuse, and cults.\n\nIsolation reduces the opportunity of the abused to be rescued or escape from the abuse. It also helps disorientate the abused and makes the abused more dependent on the abuser. The degree of power and control over the abused is contingent upon the degree of his or her physical or emotional isolation. \n\nAn important element of psychological control is the isolation of the victim from the outside world. Isolation includes controlling a person's social activity: who they see, who they talk to, where they go and any other method to limit their access to others. It may also include limiting what material is read. It can include insisting on knowing where they are and requiring permission for medical care. The abuser exhibits hypersensitive and reactive jealousy.\n\nIsolation can be aided by:\n\nVarious isolation techniques may be used by cults:\n\nIsolation is a common element of workplace bullying. It includes preventing access to opportunities, physical or social isolation, withholding necessary information, keeping the target out of the loop, ignoring or excluding.\n\nWorkplace isolation is a defined category in the workplace power and control wheel.\n\nIsolation may itself be considered to be abuse or intended as punishment – see silent treatment, ostracism, social rejection, shunning, social exclusion, blacklisting, solitary confinement and sensory deprivation.\n\nIsolation may also be voluntarily sought by an individual or as a response to circumstances without being directly imposed by another – see social isolation, emotional isolation, solitude, recluse and hermit.\n"}
{"id": "24385757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24385757", "title": "Jangama dhyana", "text": "Jangama dhyana\n\nJangama dhyana is a meditation technique, which has been practiced by various sages over the centuries. In modern times, it has been used by Shri Shivabalayogi Maharaj and his direct disciple Shri Shivarudra Balayogi Maharaj to achieve self-realization. The technique is currently taught by Shri Shivarudra Balayogi. \"Jangama\" means 'eternal existence' and \"dhyana\" means 'meditation.' Hence \"Jangama dhyana\" is 'Meditation on the Eternal Existence (of the Self).'\n\n\"Jangama dhyana\" is an ancient meditation technique which involves concentrating the mind and sight between the eyebrows. According to Patanjali, this is one method of achieving the initial concentration (\"dharana\": Yoga Sutras, III: 1) necessary for the mind to go introverted in meditation (\"dhyana\": Yoga Sutras, III: 2). In the deeper practice of the Jangama dhyana technique, the mind concentrated between the eyebrows begins to automatically lose all location and focus on the watching itself. Eventually, the meditator experiences only the consciousness of existence and achieves Self Realization. Swami Vivekananda describes the process in the following way:\nWhen the mind has been trained to remain fixed on a certain internal or external location, there comes to it the power of flowing in an unbroken current, as it were, towards that point. This state is called \"dhyana\". When one has so intensified the power of \"dhyana\" as to be able to reject the external part of perception and remain meditating only on the internal part, the meaning, that state is called \"Samadhi\".\nThe point between the eyebrows is referred to as the \"bhrikuti\" and symbolically as the \"ajna chakra\", which means 'commanding circle.' When the mind becomes totally concentrated at this point, one becomes the commander of one's mind. Until then, the meditator will not have achieved self-mastery. The Bhagavad Gita describes the process and benefits of the meditation technique as follows:\nShutting off sense \nFrom what is outward, \nFixing the gaze \nAt the root of the eye-brows, \nChecking the breath-stream \nIn and outgoing \nWithin the nostrils, \nHolding the senses, \nHolding the intellect, \nThrusts fear aside, \nThrusts aside anger \nAnd puts off desire: \nTruly that man \nIs made free for ever.\n\nIn modern times, the 19th century Yogi, Shri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, practiced meditating between the eyebrows in order to achieve \"Nirvikalpa Samadhi\" (bringing the mind to a complete standstill, beyond imagination). Though he was able to withdraw his mind from all external sensations and objects, he initially could not go beyond the vision of goddess Kali, which his mind had become totally concentrated upon during his long period of devotional \"tapas\". Shri Ramakrishna recounts how his Guru on the path of Advaita Vedanta, Totapuri, gave him further instruction in the meditation technique to overcome this obstacle:\nHe cast his eyes around. Finding a piece of glass he took it up and stuck it between my eyebrows... 'Concentrate the mind on this point!' he thundered. Then with stern determination I again sat to meditate... The last barrier fell. My spirit at once soared beyond the relative plane and I lost myself in \"Samadhi\".\nLater Shri Ramakrishna was to give the same instruction in meditation to his illustrious disciple Swami Vivekananda.\n\nToday, the technique is associated with Shri Shivabalayogi Maharaj and his direct disciple Shri Shivarudra Balayogi Maharaj. Shri Shivabalayogi was initiated into the technique at the age of fourteen. On 7 August 1949, he experienced a vision of a tall Jangama Sage (ancient order of ascetics) with matted hair, who told him to sit in padmasana (lotus posture), and close his eyes. The Sage then touched the young boy between the eyebrows and instructed, 'Watch here.' Thus, Shri Shivabalayogi Maharaj sat in \"tapas\" (deep, prolonged meditation) for twelve years, meditating for 23 hours a day for eight years and around 12 hours a day for the remaining four years. After this period, he initiated tens of thousands of people into the meditation technique he had used to achieve Self Realization. \nIn 1994, Shri Shivabalayogi initiated his direct disciple, Seenu, into \"tapas\" using the Jangama dhyana technique. He achieved Self Realization in November 1999 and was given the name Shri Shivarudra Balayogi Maharaj, after meditating for around 20 hours a day over five years.\n\nThe name for the technique was coined by Shri Shivabalayogi while walking around the Dehradun ashram one night with his direct disciple, Seenu, who was later to become the Enlightened Yogi, Shri Shivarudra Balayogi. He suddenly turned to Seenu and said:\nPerhaps it would be nice to name the meditation technique we are teaching worldwide as \"Jangama dhyana.\" Lord Shiva first appeared to me in the form of a Jangama Sage to impart the technique, and \"Jangama\" means 'Eternal Existence'; so \"Jangama dhyana\" would mean 'meditation on the Eternal Existence of the Self.'\nThe Jangama dhyana technique is as follows:\nSit, closing the eyes.\nConcentrate the mind and sight in between eyebrows.\nKeep watching there by focusing the attention.\nDo not repeat any mantra or name.\nDo not imagine anything.\nDo not open eyes until the duration of meditation is over.\nToday, initiation into this technique is given by Shri Shivarudra Balayogi Maharaj. He identifies the greatest secret of meditation as not analyzing any thoughts or visions that may appear:\nThis meditation is a purification process, but this purification doesn't occur quietly. During the purification, visions and thoughts come. It is just like when you are washing clothes; you see the dirt coming out into the water. In the same way, when the mind is going through the purification, then thoughts and visions occur. But they occur only for a moment, and then they disappear. That is why we need to be so careful in this regard, because if you are watching, then the mind can very easily get involved in the thought, and if it gets involved it can further acquire new imprints. This re-acquiring is so subtle. This is why it is so important not to analyze thoughts during meditation, and this is also why the total cleansing of the mind takes time. \n\nVisions and experiences are not important in meditation. The only symptom of progress is greater peace. After being totally cleansed through meditation, the mind becomes pure consciousness capable of realizing through deeper meditation (\"Samadhi\") its existence beyond imagination as the eternal Self. This state is known as Self Realization or Enlightenment.\n\n"}
{"id": "34212423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34212423", "title": "Kasch ring", "text": "Kasch ring\n\nIn ring theory, a subfield of abstract algebra, a right Kasch ring is a ring \"R\" for which every simple right \"R\" module is isomorphic to a right ideal of \"R\". Analogously the notion of a left Kasch ring is defined, and the two properties are independent of each other.\n\nKasch rings are named in honor of mathematician Friedrich Kasch. Kasch originally called Artinian rings whose proper ideals have nonzero annihilators \"S-rings\". The characterizations below show that Kasch rings generalize S-rings.\n\nEquivalent definitions will be introduced only for the right-hand version, with the understanding that the left-hand analogues are also true. The Kasch conditions have a few equivalent statements using the concept of annihilators, and this article uses the same notation appearing in the annihilator article.\n\nIn addition to the definition given in the introduction, the following properties are equivalent definitions for a ring \"R\" to be right Kasch. They appear in :\n\nThe content below can be found in references such as , , .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3224705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3224705", "title": "Letter of intent", "text": "Letter of intent\n\nA letter of intent (LOI or LoI, and sometimes capitalized as \"Letter of Intent\" in legal writing, but only when referring to a specific document under discussion) is a document outlining one or more agreements between two or more parties before the agreements are finalized. The concept is similar to a heads of agreement, term sheet or memorandum of understanding. Such outlined agreements may be mergers and acquisitions transaction agreements, joint venture agreements, real property lease agreements and several other categories of agreements that may govern material transactions.\n\nA letter of intent may be presented by one party to another party and subsequently negotiated before execution (or signature). If carefully negotiated, an LOI may serve to protect both parties to a transaction. For example, a seller of a business may incorporate what is known as a non-solicitation provision, which would restrict the buyer's ability to hire an employee of the seller's business should the two parties not be able to close the transaction. On the other hand, an LOI may protect the buyer of a business by expressly conditioning its obligation to complete the transaction if is unable to secure financing for the transaction.\n\nCommon purposes of an LOI are:\n\nPotential downsides to using an LOI may include:\n\nIn academia, a letter of intent is part of the application process, in which it is also known as a statement of purpose or application essay. In education in the United States, letters of intent are also frequently reached between high school senior athletes and colleges/universities, for the reservation of athletic scholarships for the athletes upon graduation from high school. School administrators in secondary education often require a letter of intent before approving the formation of a student club.\n\nIn real estate, in cases where the real property in question is not listed on a multiple listing service, there may not be an easy way to notify the owner of the property and other interested parties of intent to purchase. Often it is necessary to officially begin the process of a purchase, and allow all peripheral interested parties to begin any other processes, with a letter of intent. For example, a multimillion-dollar loan for a commercial property may require a letter of intent before a financial institution will allow personnel to spend time working on said loan necessary for the completion of the sale. The same may be followed at the time of purchase by any company. A tenant and landlord may sign a letter of intent prior to signing a lease agreement to stipulate rental rates and all regulations of the future tenancy.\n\nIn the solicitation of government grants, a letter of intent is highly encouraged but it is not required or binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application. The information that it contains allows agency staff to estimate the potential workload and plan the review.\n\n"}
{"id": "3573435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3573435", "title": "Moral certainty", "text": "Moral certainty\n\nMoral certainty is a concept of intuitive probability. It means a very high degree of probability, sufficient for action, but short of absolute or mathematical certainty.\n\nThe notion of different degrees of certainty can be traced back to a statement in Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics that one must be content with the kind of certainty appropriate to different subject matters, so that in practical decisions one cannot expect the certainty of mathematics. \n\nThe Latin phrase \"moralis certitudo\" was first used by the French philosopher Jean Gerson about 1400, to provide a basis for moral action that could (if necessary) be \"less\" exact than Aristotelian practical knowledge, thus avoiding the dangers of philosophical scepticism and opening the way for a benevolent casuistry.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary mentions occurrences in English from 1637. \n\nIn law, moral (or 'virtual') certainty has been associated with verdicts based on certainty beyond a reasonable doubt.\n\nMoral certainty, a quantum of evidence of about 100 percent proof, is required in two kinds of cases:\nLegal debate about instructions to seek a moral certainty has turned on the changing definitions of the phrase over time. Whereas it \"can\" be understood as an equivalent to 'beyond reasonable doubt', in another sense moral certainty refers to a firm conviction which \"does not\" correlate but rather opposes evidentiary certainty: i.e. one may have a firm subjective gut feeling of guilt – a feeling of moral certainty – without the evidence necessarily justifying a guilty conviction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19995", "title": "Musical saw", "text": "Musical saw\n\nA musical saw, also called a singing saw, is a hand saw used as a musical instrument. Capable of continuous glissando (portamento), the sound creates an ethereal tone, very similar to the theremin. The musical saw is classified as a plaque friction idiophone with direct friction (132.22) under the Hornbostel-Sachs system of musical instrument classification.\n\nThe saw is generally played seated with the handle squeezed between the legs, and the far end held with one hand. Some sawists play standing, either with the handle between the knees and the blade sticking out in front of them. The saw is usually played with the serrated edge, or \"teeth\", facing the body, though some players face them away. Some saw players file down the teeth which makes no discernable difference to the sound. Many—especially professional—saw players use a handle, called a Cheat, at the tip of the saw for easier bending and higher virtuosity.\n\nTo sound a note, a sawist first bends the blade into an S-curve. The parts of the blade that are curved are damped from vibration, and do not sound. At the center of the S-curve a section of the blade remains relatively flat. This section, the \"sweet spot\", can vibrate across the width of the blade, producing a distinct pitch: the wider the section of blade, the lower the sound. Sound is usually created by drawing a bow across the back edge of the saw at the sweet spot, or sometimes by striking the sweet spot with a mallet. \n\nThe sawist controls the pitch by adjusting the S-curve, making the sweet spot travel up the blade (toward a thinner width) for a higher pitch, or toward the handle for a lower pitch. Harmonics can be created by playing at varying distances on either side of the sweet spot. Sawists can add vibrato by shaking one of their legs or by wobbling the hand that holds the tip of the blade. Once a sound is produced, it will sustain for quite a while, and can be carried through several notes of a phrase.\n\nOn occasion the musical saw is called for in orchestral music, but orchestral percussionists are seldom also sawists. If a note outside of the saw's range is called for, an electric guitar with a slide can be substituted.\n\nSawists often use standard wood-cutting saws, although special musical saws are also made. As compared with wood-cutting saws, the blades of musical saws are generally wider, for range, and longer, for finer control. They do not have set or sharpened teeth, and may have grain running parallel to the back edge of the saw, rather than parallel to the teeth. Some musical saws are made with thinner metal, to increase flexibility, while others are made thicker, for a richer tone, longer sustain, and stronger harmonics. \n\nA typical musical saw is wide at the handle end and wide at the tip. Such a saw will generally produce about two octaves, regardless of length. A bass saw may be over at the handle and produce about two-and-a-half octaves. There are also musical saws with 3–4 octaves range, and new improvements have resulted in as much as 5 octaves note range. Two-person saws, also called \"misery whips\", can also be played, though with less virtuosity, and they produce an octave or less of range.\n\nMost sawists use cello or violin bows, using violin rosin, but some may use improvised home-made bows, such as a wooden dowel.\n\nMusical saws have been produced for over a century, primarily in the United States, but also in Scandinavia, Germany, France (Lame sonore) and Asia.\n\nIn the early 1900s, there were at least ten companies in the United States manufacturing musical saws. These saws ranged from the familiar steel variety to gold-plated masterpieces worth hundreds of dollars. However, with the start of World War II the demand for metals made the manufacture of saws too expensive and many of these companies went out of business. By the year 2000, only three companies in the United States—Mussehl & Westphal, Charlie Blacklock, and Wentworth—were making saws. In 2012, a company called Index Drums started producing a saw that had a built-in transducer in the handle, called the \"JackSaw\".\n\nOutside the United States, makers of musical saws include Bahco, makers of the limited edition Stradivarius, Alexis in France, Feldmann and Stövesandt in Germany, Music Blade in Greece and Thomas Flinn & Company in the United Kingdom, based in Sheffield, who produce three different sized musical saws, as well as accessories.\n\nThe International Musical Saw Association (IMSA) produces an annual International Musical Saw Festival (including a \"Saw-Off\" competition) every August in Santa Cruz and Felton, California. An International Musical Saw Festival is held every other summer in New York City, produced by Natalia Paruz. Paruz also produced a musical saw festival in Israel. There are also annual saw festivals in Japan and China.\n\nA Guinness World Record for the largest musical-saw ensemble was established July 18, 2009, at the annual NYC Musical Saw Festival. Organized by Paruz, 53 musical saw players performed together.\n\nIn 2011 a World Championship took place in Jelenia Góra/Poland. Winners: 1. Gladys Hulot (France), 2. Katharina Micada (Germany), 3. Tom Fink (Germany).\n\nThis is a list of people notable for playing the musical saw. \n\n\nGerman actress and singer Marlene Dietrich, who lived and worked in the United States for a long time, is probably the most well known musical saw player. When she studied the violin for one year in Weimar in her early twenties, her musical skills were already evident. Some years later she learned to play the musical saw while she was shooting the film \"Café Electric\" in Vienna in 1927. Her colleague, the Bavarian actor and musician Igo Sym told her how to play. In the shooting breaks and at weekends both performed romantic duets, he at the piano and she at the musical saw. \n\nSym gave his saw to her as a farewell gift. The following words are engraved on the saw: \"Now Suidy is gone / the sun d’ont [sic!] / shine… / Igo / Vienna 1927\"\nShe took the saw with her, when she left for Hollywood in 1929 and played there in the following years at film sets and Hollywood parties.\nWhen she participated at the United Service Organizations (USO) shows for the US troops in 1944, she also played on the saw. Some of these shows were broadcast on radio, so there exist two rare recordings of her saw playing, embedded in entertaining interviews. 1. Aloha Oe 2. other song\n\n\nBeginning from the early 1920s composers of both contemporary and popular music wrote for the musical saw.\nProbably the first was Dmitri Shostakovich. He included the musical saw, e.g., in the film music for \"The New Babylon\" (1929), in \"The Nose\" (1928), and in \"Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District\" (1934).\nShostakovich and other composers of his time used the term \"Flexaton\" to mark the musical saw. \"Flexaton\" just means \"to flex a tone\"—the saw is flexed to change the pitch. Unfortunately, there exists another instrument called Flexatone, so there has been confusion for a long time. Aram Khachaturian, who knew Shostakovich's music included the musical saw in his Piano Concerto (1936) in the second movement. Another composer was the Swiss Arthur Honegger, who included the saw in his opera \"Antigone\" in 1924 . \nThe Romanian composer George Enescu used the musical saw at the end of the second act of his opera \"Œdipe\" (1931) to show in an extensive glissando—which begins with the mezzo-soprano and is continued by the saw—the death and ascension of the sphinx killed by Oedipus.\nThe Italian composer Giacinto Scelsi wrote a part for the saw in his quarter-tone piece \"Quattro pezzi per orchestra\" (1959). German composer Hans Werner Henze took the saw to characterize the mean hero of his tragical opera \"Elegy for young lovers\" (1961).\nOther composers were Krysztof Penderecki with \"Fluorescences\" (1961), \"De natura sonoris Nr. 2\" (1971) and the opera \"Ubu Rex\" (1990), Bernd Alois Zimmermann with \"Stille und Umkehr\" (1970), George Crumb with \"Ancient voices of children\" (1970), John Corigliano with \"The Mannheim Rocket\" (2001).\nChaya Czernowin used the saw in her opera \"PNIMA...Ins Innere\" (2000) to represent the character of the grandfather, who is traumatized by the Holocaust. \nThere are Further Leif Segerstam, Hans Zender (orchestration of \"5 préludes\" by Claude Debussy), Franz Schreker (opera \"Christophorus\") and Oscar Strasnoy (opera \"Le bal\").\nRussian composer Lera Auerbach wrote for the saw in her ballet \"The Little Mermaid\" (2005), in her symphonic poem \"Dreams and Whispers of Poseidon\" (2005), in her oratorio \"Requiem Dresden – Ode to Peace\" (2012), in her Piano Concerto No.1 (2015), in her comic oratorio \"The Infant Minstrel and His Peculiar Menagerie\" (2016) and in her violin concerto Nr.4 \"NyX – Fractured dreams\" (2017).\n\nCanadian composer Robert Minden has written extensively for the musical saw. Michael A. Levine composed \"Divination By Mirrors\" for musical saw soloist and two string ensembles tuned a quarter tone apart, taking advantage of the saws ability to play in both tunings.\n\nOther composers for chamber music with musical saw are Jonathan Rutherford (\"An Intake of Breath\"), Dana Wilson (\"Whispers from Another Time\"), Heinrich Gattermeyer (\"Elegie für Singende Säge, Cembalo (oder Klavier)\", Vito Zuraj (\"Musica di camera\" (2001)) and Britta-Maria Bernhard (\"Tranquillo\")\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43742768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43742768", "title": "North Korea's illicit activities", "text": "North Korea's illicit activities\n\nThe alleged illicit activities of the North Korean state include manufacture and sale of illegal drugs, the manufacture and sale of counterfeit goods, human trafficking, arms trafficking, wildlife trafficking, counterfeiting currency (especially the United States dollar and Chinese yuan), terrorism, and other areas. It is alleged many of these activities are undertaken at the direction and under the control of, the North Korean government and the ruling Workers' Party of Korea, with their proceeds going towards advancing the country's nuclear and conventional arms production, funding the lifestyles of the country's elite, and propping up the North Korean economy.\n\nUnlike criminal syndicates, the extensive nature of these illegal endeavors, and the claim that they are directed and sanctioned by the highest levels of government, has led to the nature of the North Korean state being defined as a form of \"criminal sovereignty\" by foreign policy experts such as Paul Rexton Kan and Bruce Bechtol.\n\nHowever, there are questions remaining about the level of government involvement in each of the criminal enterprises. Many commentators agree that the North Korean state has been behind counterfeiting currency, human trafficking, the arms trade, etc., but the level to which it has been involved in the drug trade after the collapse of the Public Distribution System in the 1990s is not clear as semi-private and private black markets have arisen since then and some high-ranking officials may only be engaged in illicit trade for personal benefit.\n\nThe British academic, Hazel Smith, has argued that the allegations have a weak foundation, being largely based on the claims of a few US officials and North Korean defectors. She has pointed out that there have been very few criminal convictions. She has queried the assumption that all the activities are directed by North Korea's government.\n\nAccording to North Korea scholar Andrei Lankov, the country's illicit activities never developed into lucrative hard currency earners. Instead, these activities exposed the country to international condemnation in exchange for marginal gain. Lankov suggests that smuggling was never intended to earn currency for the regime, but was simply a means of survival for diplomats whose funding was cut.\n\nIt is alleged that North Korea's illegal drug trade dates back to the 1970s and includes the manufacturing, selling, and trafficking of illicit drugs, as well as counterfeit otherwise legal pharmaceuticals. Production began in the mountainous Hamkyung and Yangkang Provinces, particularly in the village of Yonsah, where Kim Il-sung sanctioned the creation of an opium farm.\n\nTo provide a cover of legitimacy, the North Korean government uses front companies, like the Ryugyong Corporation under the control of the Korean Workers Party's Foreign Relations Department, to conduct clandestine activities. The company also holds large tracts of land within the country for the sole purpose of growing opium and each year the company sent tens of thousands of dollars in hard currency to Kim Jong-il for his use. Unlike most companies, Ryugyong Corporation has no import or export quota restrictions.\n\nAccording to defector Yoon Yong Sol, during the famine \"[t]here were some complaints that during the famine we should be growing grain, not poppies, but the instruction from the central government was that if we grow poppies we can sell the product for 10 times as much to buy grain. ... The only way to earn hard currency is by drugs.\"\n\nReports of methamphetamine (known as \"ice drug\" in North Korea) use in the country surfaced in the late 1990s. According to Isaac Stone Fish writing in \"Foreign Policy\", the production of methamphetamine in North Korea is done by chemists and other underemployed scientists. Methamphetamine is given as a medication within North Korea, which has helped to fuel its spread. As the production and sale of opium declined in the mid-2000s, methamphetamine became more pervasive. To bring in much-needed cash, the international methamphetamine trade began, spreading first to China, and with the drug being made in state-run laboratories. However, Isaac Stone Fish admitted with regard to his report: \"I have no idea what is actually happening inside North Korea\".\n\nChina officially admitted to the drug problem stemming from North Korea in 2004, with Jilin Province being the most important transhipment point from North Korea. The production, storage, financing, and sale of the North Korea's methamphetamine trade reaches multiple countries from the Philippines, the United States, Hong Kong, Thailand, western Africa and others. In 2010, five foreign nationals were prosecuted as part of a conspiracy involving North Korea to smuggle 40 pounds of methamphetamine into the United States and to sell it for $30,000 a pound.\n\nIn 2001, income from illegal drugs amounted to between $500 million and $1 billion. In a 2013 \"Washington Post\" article, annual revenues from methamphetamine sales are estimated at $100 million to $200 million.\n\nBetween 1977 and 2003, more than twenty North Korean diplomats, agents, and trade officials have been implicated, detained, or arrested in drug-smuggling operations in more than a dozen countries. In 2004, two North Korean embassy employees were caught smuggling 150,000 tablets of clonazepam in Egypt, and in that same year, embassy employees from Bulgaria were arrested in Turkey in possession of over 500,000 tablets of Captagon (the brand name for the synthetic stimulant fenethylline, or phenethylline), with an estimated street value of $7 million. The government of North Korea has only admitted that individuals undertook such acts, and not at the direction of the state.\n\nAccording to the Committee for Human Rights in North Korea, since 2001 drug trafficking operations by diplomats had ceased, with the focus then becoming the production of drugs to be smuggled by other criminal organizations.\n\nIn 2003, the North Korean owned Pong Su was intercepted importing heroin into Australia. While four men who had landed pleaded guilty, the ship's four officers were acquitted on all charges.\n\nCounterfeiting currency is alleged to have begun in the 1970s under Kim Jong-il's direction; however, the notes produced at the time were not of high quality. Since then, and within the jurisdiction of Room 39, the North Korean government has counterfeited $50 and $100 United States banknotes using increasingly sophisticated techniques. In 1994, authorities in Hong Kong and Macao apprehended five North Korean diplomats and trade-mission members carrying around $430,000 in bills that turned out to be \"superdollar\" (also called \"supernote\") counterfeits. There have been two primary reasons for counterfeiting: the first is to wage economic warfare against the United States, and secondly, to help ease North Korea's domestic economic problems. According to a report by Dr. Balbina Hwang of American University, North Korea circulated $100 million in counterfeit currency in 2001. The revenues from this are estimated at between $15 million and $25 million annually. In 2013, the United States released its newly redesigned 100 dollar bill. The primary purpose of the redesign was to fight against counterfeiting and prevent the recurrence of the \"supernotes\" which were produced by North Korea.\n\nThe International Convention for the Suppression of Counterfeiting Currency is the primary treaty whereby states agree to criminalize acts of currency counterfeiting. North Korea is not a party to the treaty.\n\nAnalyst Andrei Lankov has described the evidence for the counterfeiting of superdollars as merely circumstantial. Gregory Elich of the Korea Policy Institute has argued that these allegations are unfounded. According to Elich, North Korea's intaglio press from the 1970s would be incapable of printing the supernotes, and the paper and ink would be extremely difficult for North Korea to produce. Furthermore, he says that the amounts of supernotes produced are too small to be economical.\n\nThere have been a few cases of North Korea being implicated in the production of counterfeit Viagra. These include: a 2004 arrest in Seoul, South Korea of a man with 4,000 counterfeit Viagra pills; and a 2005 report from Japan that North Korea was producing fake Viagra pills in factories in Chongjin, which were then sold in Hong Kong to customers of other Southeast-Asian countries (including China), and the Middle East. \n\nCounterfeit cigarettes have been a lucrative item for the country. The trade is believed to have begun in the 1990s and greatly increased in 2002 after Chinese authorities shut down many counterfeit operations in China, which then provided added incentive, knowledge, and capacity which could be relocated to North Korea. During a 2006 Congressional hearing, Peter A. Prahar of the Department of State, quoted reports that mentioned the existence of \"as many as 12\" factories in the DPRK capable of producing \"billions of packs of counterfeit cigarettes annually.\" The factories appear to be owned and operated by the North Korean military. The major factories for cigarette production were reportedly based in Rajin, though defectors also mentioned a factory in Pyongyang.\n\nIn 1995, Taiwan stopped a ship and confiscated 20 containers of counterfeit cigarette packaging, which is enough to make 2 million cartons of popular Japanese and British brands. In 2004, authorities in Vietnam, Taiwan, the Philippines, and Singapore also impounded containers filled with counterfeit cigarettes. Official congressional testimony in 2006 revealed that North Korea-sourced Marlboro brand cigarettes had been identified in 1,300 incidents across the United States. Revenues from counterfeit cigarettes are estimated at between $80 million and $160 million a year.\n\nNorth Korea is a \"Tier 3\" country (those who do not comply with human trafficking laws) as listed by the U.S. Department of State and has retained this ranking since 2007.\nThe country is a source country of men, women, and children for sex trafficking and forced labor. Forced labor is used both internally and externally. Countries which have North Korean forced laborers include Russia, China, Mongolia, and other places in Central Asia, Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.\n\nWhile the North Korean government claims these are \"contract workers\", reports claim that they are actually subjected to forced labor, that their movements and communications are subjected to strict surveillance, and that workers sent overseas do not have a choice in the type of work they will be doing nor do they receive pay for their work.\n\nIt is estimated that there are thousands of North Koreans working in logging, construction, and agriculture industries in Russia. These workers reportedly only receive two days of rest each year and face punishment if they fail to meet quotas.\n\nNorth Korea is not a party to the 2000 UN TIP Protocol.\n\nDuring the 1980s, North Korea emerged as a \"legal\" arms trader to primarily Third World countries, exporting relatively inexpensive, technically unsophisticated, but reliable weapons. During the Iran–Iraq War, some 90% of arms exports from North Korea went to Iran, and between 1981 and 1989, North Korea earned an estimated $4 billion from arms sales.\n\nNorth Korea has a known track record in proliferating nuclear and missile technology and in 2001, missile sales came to $560 million. Following its 2006 nuclear test, international sanctions have sought to limit or prevent North Korea from exporting various types of arms, materials, and technology. Prior to UN sanctions however, countries such as Japan and the United States took unilateral steps to curb such activities.\n\nUN sanctions now ban all arms, including small arms and light weapons.\nNorth Korea has developed an extensive and complicated arms trade network in an attempt to circumvent sanctions and uses front companies and embassies to traffic weapons. In a 2014 UN report, Syria, Myanmar, Eritrea, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Somalia and Iran were all suspected to have bought weapons from North Korea.\n\n, trade in banned small arms and ammunition was relatively insignificant, with reports include: imports totaling $45,500 by Brazil in 2007, of $3.1 million by the United Arab Emirates in 2006, and $364,400 by Ethiopia in 2005, and $121,400 by Mexico in 2005.\n\nIn 2009, three vessels were intercepted which were carrying North Korean weapons. Western and Israeli intelligence officials believed the weapons were destined for Hezbollah and Hamas.\n\nIn December 2009, Thailand intercepted a charter jet from Pyongyang carrying 35 tons of conventional weapons, including surface-to-air missiles.\n\nIn 2012, the United Nations reported that 445 North Korean-made graphite cylinders (which can be used to produce ballistic missiles) were seized from a Chinese freighter at the South Korean port of Busan on their way to Syria.\n\nIn 2013, a North Korean cargo ship seizure in Panama (carrying Cuban weapons) took place.\n\nIn August 2016, US intelligence tracked a ship sailing under a convenience flag of Cambodia, with a North Korean crew sailing from North Korea to Egypt was found with carrying 24,000 rocket-propelled grenades and components for another 6,000. It was ordered and paid by a private Egyptian business, but it is believed that it was for the Egyptian Army. The value of this order and others is estimated at $23 million.\n\nOver the past three decades, at least 18 North Korean diplomats have been caught smuggling rhino horn and ivory, though the real number is considered to be much higher. North Korean defectors have also reported smuggling of rhino horn and ivory from countries like Angola, Ethiopia, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, South Africa and Mozambique. Such illegal activity is considered low-risk but highly rewarding for the regime.\n\nRoom 39 (or Office 39) is the primary government organization that seeks ways to maintain the foreign currency slush fund of North Korea's leader. Room 39 oversees many of the government's illegal activities (although the military also has its own illegal activity division) such as counterfeiting and drug production. In 2010, the department was reported to have had 17 overseas branches, 100 trading companies and banks under its control. By 2009, the office allegedly had upwards of $5 billion in assets, much of which was spread in banks throughout Macau, Hong Kong, and Europe.\n\nIn August 2014, Yun Tae-hyong, a senior representative of North Korea's \"Korea Daesong Bank\", which is suspected of being under control of Room 39, was reported to have defected to Russia taking $5 million with him.\n\nIn 2015, the European Union placed the Korean National Insurance Company (KNIC) under sanctions and added that the KNIC had links to Room 39. The KNIC (which had offices in Hamburg, Germany and London, United Kingdom) was reported to have had assets of UK£787 million in 2014 and had been involved in scamming insurance markets and making investments in property and foreign exchange.\n\nAs well as illegal money-making ventures, North Korea has been condemned for politically motivated criminal acts related to the long-running Korean conflict.\n\nIn 1988, North Korea was added to the State Sponsors of Terrorism list for supplying groups with weapons and for their role in the Rangoon bombing and the bombing of Korean Air Flight 858. In 2008 President George W. Bush agreed to remove North Korea from the list after North Korea met their obligations to provide access to their nuclear program and the resumption of disabling of their nuclear facilities, but continued hostilities and the fear that North Korea could sell nuclear weapons to terrorist organizations have called for the nation to be relisted.\n\nIn 2017, North Korea was relisted as a terrorist state in response to the murder of Kim Jong-nam, its role in the Syrian Civil War, close relationships with Iran, and it backing Islamic terrorist organizations, especially Hamas.\n\nBetween 1977 and 1983, North Korea abducted several Japanese citizens. North Korea has admitted to abducting 13 Japanese citizens, and Japan lists 17 as having been abducted. There are also testimonies which list nine Europeans as being abducted by North Korea.\n\nThe purposes of abduction ranges from using the abductees as translators/teachers, to become wives, and to obtain identities for other clandestine operations. During the Korean War North Korea abducted an estimated 82,959 South Koreans, and in the post-war period South Korea claims that a further 489 South Koreans have been abducted by North Korea.\n\nAccording to cybersecurity experts, North Korea maintains an army of hackers trained to disrupt enemy computer networks and steal both money and sensitive data. In the previous decade, it was blamed for numerous cyber-attacks and other hacking attacks in South Korea and elsewhere.\n\nAfter the Sony Pictures hack in 2014, U.S. government officials stated that the North Korean government was \"centrally involved\" in the hacking. White House officials treated the situation as a \"serious national security matter\", and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) formally stated that they had connected the North Korean government to the cyber-attack.\n\nOn 8 October 2018, Bloomberg reported a North Korean hacking group had tried to steal at least $1.1 billion in a series of attacks on global banks from 2014-2018, as uncovered by cybersecurity company FireEye.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council has passed multiple resolutions against North Korea and its weapons program including, UNSC Resolution 825 (May 1993), UNSC Resolution 1695 (July 2006), UNSC 1874 (June 2009), UNSC Resolution 2094 (March 2013) and most recently, UNSC Resolution 2371 (August 2017). Were the international community to fully enforce UNSC 1874, it is estimated that North Korea would lose between $1.5 and $3.7 billion.\n\nSince 1950, the United States has maintained an embargo against North Korea for their role in starting the Korean War. The embargo and related sanctions have been extended to combat North Korea's various illicit activities and continued aggression.\n\nIn 2005, under the US Patriot Act section 311, $25 million of North Korea's cash was frozen at Macau-based Banco Delta Asia, which the US Treasury said North Korea used for illicit activities.\n\nIn 2010, US President Barack Obama signed Executive Order 13551, which \"targets North Korea’s importation and exportation of arms, importation of luxury goods, and other illicit activities, including money laundering, the counterfeiting of goods and currency, bulk cash smuggling, and narcotics trafficking.\"\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "31330683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31330683", "title": "Oppressors–oppressed distinction", "text": "Oppressors–oppressed distinction\n\nOppressors–oppressed distinction or dominant-dominated opposition is a political concept. One of the first theorists to use it was Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, who wrote in his 1802 \"The German Constitution\": \"The Catholics had been in the position of oppressors, and the Protestants of the oppressed\". Karl Marx made the concept very influential, and it is often considered a fundamental element of Marxist analysis. Some have judged it simplistic. Many authors have adapted it to other contexts, including Friedrich Engels, Karl Marx, Vladimir Lenin, Antonio Gramsci, Simone Weil, Paulo Freire and others. It has been used in a variety of contexts, including discussions of the bourgeoisie and proletariat, imperialism, and self-determination.\n\nThe theory of oppressor and oppressed nations has been part of Lenin's thought on imperialism, self-determination and criticisms of Social Democrats.\n\nThe political philosopher Kenneth Minogue provides a criticism of the oppressors-oppressed distinction in his work \"The Pure Theory of Ideology\". In the book's introduction, Minogue resumes the problem of the dialectical concept of oppression:\n\n"}
{"id": "1966466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1966466", "title": "Original intent", "text": "Original intent\n\nOriginal intent is a theory in law concerning constitutional and statutory interpretation. It is frequently used as a synonym for originalism; while original intent is indeed one theory in the originalist family, it has some salient differences which has led originalists from more predominant schools of thought such as original meaning to distinguish original intent as much as legal realists do.\n\nOriginal intent maintains that in interpreting a text, a court should determine what the authors of the text were trying to achieve, and to give effect to what they \"intended\" the statute to accomplish, the actual \"text\" of the legislation notwithstanding. As in purposivism, tools such as legislative history are often used.\n\nDespite the potential confusion of terms between the original Intent and originalism, other schools of Originalist thought have been as critical of original intent as non-Originalists.\n\n\nIn Canada, the predominant school of thought for legal interpretation is the living tree doctrine, under which interpretations can evolve along with the society, to deal with new conditions that were different or did not exist when the Constitution was framed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "577742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=577742", "title": "Photo manipulation", "text": "Photo manipulation\n\nPhoto manipulation involves transforming or altering a photograph using various methods and techniques to achieve desired results. Some photo manipulations are considered skillful artwork while others are frowned upon as unethical practices, especially when used to deceive the public, such as that used for political propaganda, or to make a product or person look better.\n\nDepending on the application and intent, some photo manipulations are considered an art form because it involves the creation of unique images and in some instances, signature expressions of art by photographic artists. For example, Ansel Adams employed some of the more common manipulations using darkroom exposure techniques, such as burning (darkening) and dodging (lightening) a photograph. Other examples of photo manipulation include retouching photographs using ink or paint, airbrushing, double exposure, piecing photos or negatives together in the darkroom, scratching instant films, or through the use of software-based manipulation tools applied to digital images. There are a number of software applications available for digital image manipulation, ranging from professional applications to very basic imaging software for casual users.\n\nPhoto manipulation dates back to some of the earliest photographs captured on glass and tin plates during the 19th century. The practice began not long after the creation of the first photograph (1825) by Joseph Nicéphore Niépce who developed heliography and made the first photographic print from a photoengraved printing plate. Traditional photographic prints can be altered using various methods and techniques that involve manipulation directly to the print, such as retouching with ink, paint, airbrushing, or scratching Polaroids during developing. Negatives can be manipulated while still in the camera using double-exposure techniques, or in the darkroom by piecing photos or negatives together. Some darkroom manipulations involved techniques such as bleaching to artfully lighten or totally wash-out parts of the photograph, or hand coloring for aesthetic purposes or to mimic a fine art painting.\n\nIn the early 19th century, photography and the technology that made it possible was rather crude and cumbersome. While the equipment and technology progressed over time, it was not until the late 20th century that photography evolved into the digital realm. At the onset, digital photography was considered by some to be a radical new approach, and was initially rejected by photographers because of its substandard quality. The transition from film to digital has been an ongoing process although great strides were made in the early 21st century as a result of advancing technology that has greatly improved digital image quality while reducing the bulk and weight of cameras and equipment.\n\nAn early example of tampering was in the early 1860s, when a photo of Abraham Lincoln was altered using the body from a portrait of John C. Calhoun and the head of Lincoln from a famous seated portrait by Mathew Brady – the same portrait which was the basis for the original Lincoln five-dollar bill. Another is exampled in the Library of Congress \"Prints and Photographs Online Catalogue\" wherein it exposes a manipulated American Civil War photograph of General Ulysses S. Grant posing horseback in front of his troops at City Point, Virginia. Close observation of the photograph raises questions and brings to light certain details in the photograph that simply do not add up. For example, Grant's head is set at a strange angle to his body, his uniform is of a different time period, and his favorite horse Cincinnati did not have a left hind sock like the horse in the photograph, although his other horse Egypt did have a sock but on a different foot. With further research, three different photographs were discovered that explained the composite using Grant's head from one photograph, the body of Major General Alexander McDowell McCook atop his horse from another photograph, and for the background, an 1864 photograph of Confederate prisoners captured at the Battle of Fisher's Hill.\n\nIn the 20th century, digital retouching became available with Quantel computers running Paintbox in professional environments, which, alongside other contemporary packages, were effectively replaced in the market by Adobe Photoshop and other editing software for graphic imaging.\n\nPhoto manipulation has been used to deceive or persuade viewers or improve storytelling and self-expression. Often even subtle and discreet changes can have a profound impact on how we interpret or judge a photograph, making it all the more important to know when or if manipulation has occurred. As early as the American Civil War, photographs were published as engravings based on more than one negative.\n\nJoseph Stalin made use of photo retouching for propaganda purposes. On May 5, 1920 his predecessor Vladimir Lenin held a speech for Soviet troops that Leon Trotsky attended. Stalin had Trotsky retouched out of a photograph showing Trotsky in attendance. In a well known case of \"damnatio memoriae\" image manipulation, NKVD leader Nikolai Yezhov (the \"Vanishing Commissar\"), after his execution in 1940, was removed from an official press photo where he was pictured with Stalin. (For more information, see Censorship of images in the Soviet Union.)\nThe pioneer among journalists distorting photographic images for news value was Bernarr Macfadden: in the mid-1920s, his \"composograph\" process involved reenacting real news events with costumed body doubles and then photographing the dramatized scenes—then pasting faces of the real news-personalities (gathered from unrelated photos) onto his staged images. In the 1930s, artist John Heartfield used a type of photo manipulation known as the photomontage to critique Nazi propaganda.\n\nSome ethical theories have been applied to image manipulation. During a panel on the topic of ethics in image manipulation Aude Oliva theorized that categorical shifts are necessary in order for an edited image to be viewed as a manipulation. In \"Image Act Theory\", Carson Reynolds extended speech act theory by applying it to photo editing and image manipulations. In \"How to Do Things with Pictures\", William J. Mitchell details the long history of photo manipulation and discusses it critically.\n\nA notable incident of controversial photo manipulation occurred over a photograph that was altered to fit the vertical orientation of a 1982 \"National Geographic\" magazine cover. The altered image made two Egyptian pyramids appear closer together than they actually were in the original photograph. The incident triggered a debate about the appropriateness of falsifying an image, and raised questions regarding the magazine's credibility. Shortly after the incident, Tom Kennedy, director of photography for \"National Geographic\" stated, \"We no longer use that technology to manipulate elements in a photo simply to achieve a more compelling graphic effect. We regarded that afterwards as a mistake, and we wouldn’t repeat that mistake today.\"\n\nThere are other incidents of questionable photo manipulation in journalism. One such incident arose in early 2005 after Martha Stewart was released from prison. \"Newsweek\" used a photograph of Stewart's face on the body of a much slimmer woman for their cover, suggesting that Stewart had lost weight while in prison. Speaking about the incident in an interview, Lynn Staley, assistant managing editor at \"Newsweek\" said, \"The piece that we commissioned was intended to show Martha as she would be, not necessarily as she is.\" Staley also explained that \"Newsweek\" disclosed on page 3 that the cover image of Martha Stewart was a composite.\n\nImage manipulation software has affected the level of trust many viewers once had in the aphorism, the camera never lies. Images may be manipulated for fun, aesthetic reasons, or to improve the appearance of a subject but not all image manipulation is innocuous as evidenced by the Kerry Fonda 2004 election photo controversy. The image in question was a fraudulent composite image of John Kerry taken on June 13, 1971 and Jane Fonda taken in August, 1972 sharing the same platform at a 1971 antiwar rally; the latter of which carried a fake Associated Press credit with the intent to change the public's perspective of reality.\n\nThere is a growing body of writings devoted to the ethical use of digital editing in photojournalism. In the United States, for example, the National Press Photographers Association (NPPA) established a Code of Ethics which promotes the accuracy of published images, advising that photographers \"do not manipulate images [...] that can mislead viewers or misrepresent subjects.\" Infringements of the Code are taken very seriously, especially regarding digital alteration of published photographs, as evidenced by a case in which Pulitzer prize-nominated photographer Allan Detrich resigned his post following the revelation that a number of his photographs had been manipulated.\n\nIn 2010, a Ukrainian photographer Stepan Rudik, winner of the 3rd prize story in Sports Features, has been disqualified due to violation of the rules of the World Press Photo contest. \"After requesting RAW-files of the series from him, it became clear that an element had been removed from one of the original photographs.\" As of 2015, up to 20% of World Press Photo entries that made it to the penultimate round of the contest were disqualified after they were found to have been manipulated or post-processed with rules violations.\n\nThe photo manipulation industry has often been accused of promoting or inciting a distorted and unrealistic image of self; most specifically in younger people. The world of glamour photography is one specific industry which has been heavily involved with the use of photo manipulation (what many consider to be a concerning element as many people look up to celebrities in search of embodying the 'ideal figure'). Manipulation of a photo to alter a model’s appearance can be used to change features such as skin complexion, hair color, body shape, and other features. Many of the alterations to skin involve removing blemishes through the use of the healing tool in Photoshop. Photo editors may also alter the color of hair to remove roots or add shine. Additionally, the model’s teeth and eyes may be made to look whiter than they are in reality. Make up and piercings can even be edited into pictures to look as though the model was wearing them when the photo was taken. Through photo editing, the appearance of a model may be drastically changed to mask imperfections.\n\nIn an article entitled, Confessions of a Retoucher: how the modeling industry is harming women, a professional retoucher who has worked for mega-fashion brands shares the industry’s secrets. Along with fixing imperfections like skin wrinkles and smoothing features, the size of the model is manipulated by either adding or subtracting visible weight. Reverse retouching is just as common as making models skinnier, “distorting the bodies of very thin models to make them appear more robust in a process called reverse retouching. It is almost worse than making someone slimmer because the image claims you can be at an unhealthy weight but still look healthy. In reality, you can't, you have to Photoshop it\".  Reverse retouching includes eliminating shadows from protruding bones, adding flesh over body parts, color correcting, and removing hair generated for warmth from extreme weight loss. Professionals are saying that if an image is not label \"not retouched,\" then the public can assume that photograph has been modified. As the fashion industry continues to use photos that have been manipulated to idealize body types, there is a need for education about how unreal and unhealthy these images are and the negative implications they are promoting. \n\nNot only are photos being manipulated by professionals for the media, but also with the rise of social media everyone has easy access to edit photos they post online. Countless Apps have been created to allow smartphone user tools to modify personal images. These apps allow people to edit virtually every aspect in the photo focusing on the face and body represented. With social media users and the younger generation being exposed to an extreme amount of imagery that has been manipulated the consequences have a negative impact as body ideals are unachievable. Social media has the opportunity to be used as a platform for promoting healthy body image and unedited photos; the need for approval over social media has to be altered in the near future. \n\nPhoto manipulation has triggered negative responses from both viewers and celebrities. This has led to celebrities refusing to have their photos retouched in support of the American Medical Association that has decided that \"[we] must stop exposing impressionable children and teenagers to advertisements portraying models with body types only attainable with the help of photo editing software\" These include Keira Knightley, Brad Pitt, Andy Roddick, Jessica Simpson, Lady Gaga and Zendaya.\n\nBrad Pitt had a photographer, Chuck Close, take photos of him that emphasized all of his flaws. Chuck Close is known for his photos that emphasize all skin flaws of an individual. Pitt did so in an effort to speak out against media using photoshop and manipulating celebrities’ photos in an attempt to hide their flaws. Also, Kate Winslet spoke out against photo manipulation in media after \"GQ\" magazine altered her body, making it look unnaturally thin.\n\nIn April 2010, Britney Spears agreed to release \"un-airbrushed images of herself next to the digitally altered ones\". The fundamental motive behind her move was to \"highlight the pressure exerted on women to look perfect\".\n\nIn addition, 42-year-old Cate Blanchett also appeared on the cover of \"Intelligent Life\"'s 2012 March/April issue, makeup-free and without digital retouching for the first time.\n\nMultiple companies have begun taking the initiative to speak out against the use of photo manipulation when advertising their products. Two companies that have done so include Dove and Aerie. Dove created the Dove Self-Esteem Fund and also the Dove Campaign for Real Beauty as a way to try to help build confidence in young women. They want to emphasize what is known as real beauty, or untouched photographs, in the media now. Also, Aerie has started their campaign #AerieREAL. They have a line of undergarments now that goes by that name with the intention of them being for everyone. Also, their advertisements state that the model has not been retouched in any way. They also add in their advertisements that \"The real you is sexy.\"\n\nAlso, the American Medical Association has taken a stand against the use of photo manipulation. Dr. McAneny made a statement that altering models to such extremes creates unrealistic expectations in children and teenagers regarding body image. He also said that we should stop altering the models so they are not exposed to body types that can be attained only through the use of editing the photos. The American Medical Associations as a whole adopted a policy to work with advertisers to work on setting up guidelines for advertisements to try to limit how much photoshop is used. The goal of this policy is to limit the amount of unrealistic expectations for body image in advertisement.\n\nGovernments are exerting pressure on advertisers, and are starting to ban photos that are too airbrushed and edited. In the United Kingdom the Advertising Standards Authority has banned an advertisement by Lancôme featuring Julia Roberts for being misleading, stating that the flawless skin seen in the photo was too good to be true. The US is also moving in the direction of banning excessive photo manipulation where a CoverGirl model's ad was banned because it had exaggerated effects, leading to a misleading representation of the product.\n\nSome editors of magazine companies do not view manipulating their cover models as an issue. In an interview with the editor of the French magazine \"Marie Claire\", she stated that their readers are not idiots and that they can tell when a model has been retouched. Also, some who support photo manipulation in the media state that the altered photographs are not the issue, but that it is the expectations that viewers have that they fail to meet, such as wanting to have the same body as a celebrity on the cover of their favorite magazine.\n\nSurveys have been done to see how photo manipulation affects society and to see what society thinks of it. One survey was done by a fashion store in the United Kingdom, New Look, and it showed that 90% of the individuals surveyed would prefer seeing a wider variety of body shapes in media. This would involve them wanting to see cover models that are not all thin, but some with more curves than others. The survey also talked about how readers view the use of photo manipulation. One statistic stated that 15% of the readers believed that the cover images are accurate depictions of the model in reality. Also, they found that 33% of women who were surveyed are aiming for a body that is impossible for them to attain.\n\nDove also did a survey to see how photo manipulation affects the self-esteem of females. In doing this, they found that 80% of the women surveyed felt insecure when seeing photos of celebrities in the media. Of the women surveyed who had lower self-esteem, 71% of them do not believe that their appearance is pretty or stylish enough in comparison to cover models.\n\nThe growing popularity of image manipulation has raised concern as to whether it allows for unrealistic images to be portrayed to the public. In her article \"On Photography\" (1977), Susan Sontag discusses the objectivity, or lack thereof, in photography, concluding that \"photographs, which fiddle with the scale of the world, themselves get reduced, blown up, cropped, retouched, doctored and tricked out\". A practice widely used in the magazine industry, the use of photo manipulation on an already subjective photograph, creates a constructed reality for the individual and it can become difficult to differentiate fact from fiction. With the potential to alter body image, debate continues as to whether manipulated images, particularly those in magazines, contribute to self-esteem issues in both men and women.\n\nIn today's world, photo manipulation has a positive impact by developing the creativity of one's mind or maybe a negative one by removing the art and beauty of capturing something so magnificent and natural or the way it should be. According to \"The Huffington Post\", \"Photoshopping and airbrushing, many believe, are now an inherent part of the beauty industry, as are makeup, lighting and styling\". In a way, these image alterations are \"selling\" actual people to the masses to affect responses, reactions, and emotions toward these cultural icons.\n\nIn digital editing, photographs are usually taken with a digital camera and input directly into a computer. Transparencies, negatives or printed photographs may also be digitized using a scanner, or images may be obtained from stock photography databases. With the advent of computers, graphics tablets, and digital cameras, the term \"image editing\" encompasses everything that can be done to a photo, whether in a darkroom or on a computer. Photo manipulation is often much more explicit than subtle alterations to color balance or contrast and may involve overlaying a head onto a different body or changing a sign's text, for examples. Image editing software can be used to apply effects and warp an image until the desired result is achieved. The resulting image may have little or no resemblance to the photo (or photos in the case of compositing) from which it originated. Today, photo manipulation is widely accepted as an art form.\n\nThere are several subtypes of digital image-retouching:\n\n\n\nAs a result of the popularity of Adobe Photoshop as image editing software, use of the neologism \"photoshopped\" grew ubiquitously. The term commonly refers to any and all digital editing of photographs regardless of what software is used. Trademark owners Adobe Systems Incorporated, while flattered over the software's popularity, objected to what they referred to as misuse of their trademarked software, and considered it an infringement on their trademark to use terms such as \"photoshopped\" or \"photoshopping\" as a noun or verb, in possessive form or as a slang term. However, Adobe's attempts to prevent \"genericization\" or \"genericide\" of the company's trademark was to no avail. Separately, the Free Software Foundation advises against using \"photoshop\" as a verb because Adobe Photoshop is proprietary software. The terms \"photoshop\", \"photoshopped\" and \"photoshopping\" are ubiquitous and widely used colloquially and academically when referencing image editing software as it relates to digital manipulation and alteration of photographs.\n\nIn popular culture, the term \"photoshopping\" is sometimes associated with montages in the form of visual jokes, such as those published on Fark and in \"Mad\" magazine. Images may be propagated memetically via e-mail as humor or passed as actual news in a form of hoax. An example of the latter category is \"Helicopter Shark\", which was widely circulated as a so-called \"\"National Geographic\" Photo of the Year\" and was later revealed to be a hoax.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1740474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1740474", "title": "Primacy of mind", "text": "Primacy of mind\n\nA belief in the primacy of mind is . In this view the mind or soul is not only primary as an explanation of reality, but is the only conceivable explanation, as nothing so subtle and sublime as reason and morality could possibly emerge from matter and motion, the primary elements of scientific explanation. In his book \"Darwin's Dangerous Idea\", Daniel Dennett states that a central aspect of Judeo-Christian and Islamic cosmogony is that, in the beginning, there was \"something with Mind—'a cogitative Being,'\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2808931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2808931", "title": "Quaternionic projective space", "text": "Quaternionic projective space\n\nIn mathematics, quaternionic projective space is an extension of the ideas of real projective space and complex projective space, to the case where coordinates lie in the ring of quaternions formula_1 Quaternionic projective space of dimension \"n\" is usually denoted by\n\nand is a closed manifold of (real) dimension 4\"n\". It is a homogeneous space for a Lie group action, in more than one way. The quaternionic projective line formula_3 is homeomorphic to the 4-sphere.\n\nIts direct construction is as a special case of the projective space over a division algebra. The homogeneous coordinates of a point can be written\n\nwhere the formula_5 are quaternions, not all zero. Two sets of coordinates represent the same point if they are 'proportional' by a left multiplication by a non-zero quaternion \"c\"; that is, we identify all the\n\nIn the language of group actions, formula_2 is the orbit space of formula_8 by the action of formula_9, the multiplicative group of non-zero quaternions. By first projecting onto the unit sphere inside formula_10 one may also regard formula_11 as the orbit space of formula_12 by the action of formula_13, the group of unit quaternions. The sphere formula_12 then becomes a principal Sp(1)-bundle over formula_2:\n\nThis bundle is sometimes called a (generalized) Hopf fibration.\n\nThere is also a construction of formula_11 by means of two-dimensional complex subspaces of formula_18, meaning that formula_11 lies inside a complex Grassmannian.\n\nThe space formula_20, defined as the union of all finite formula_2's under inclusion, is the classifying space \"BS\". The homotopy groups of formula_20 are given by formula_23 These groups are known to be very complex and in particular they are non-zero for infinitely many values of formula_24. However, we do have that\n\nIt follows that rationally, i.e. after localisation of a space, formula_26 is an Eilenberg–Maclane space formula_27. That is formula_28 (cf. the example K(Z,2)). See rational homotopy theory.\n\nIn general, formula_2 has a cell structure with one cell in each dimension which is a multiple of 4, up to formula_30. Accordingly, its cohomology ring is formula_31, where formula_32 is a 4-dimensional generator. This is analogous to complex projective space. It also follows from rational homotopy theory that formula_2 has infinite homotopy groups only in dimensions 4 and formula_34.\n\nformula_2 carries a natural Riemannian metric analogous to the Fubini-Study metric on formula_36, with respect to which it is a compact quaternion-Kähler symmetric space with positive curvature.\n\nQuaternionic projective space can be represented as the coset space\n\nwhere formula_38 is the compact symplectic group.\n\nSince formula_39, its tangent bundle is stably trivial. The tangent bundles of the rest have nontrivial Stiefel–Whitney and Pontryagin classes. The total classes are given by the following formula:\n\nwhere formula_32 is the generator of formula_43 and formula_44 is its reduction mod 2.\n\nThe one-dimensional projective space over formula_45 is called the \"projective line\" in generalization of the complex projective line. For example, it was used (implicitly) in 1947 by P. G. Gormley to extend the Möbius group to the quaternion context with \"linear fractional transformations\". For the linear fractional transformations of an associative ring with 1, see projective line over a ring and the homography group GL(2,\"A\").\n\nFrom the topological point of view the quaternionic projective line is the 4-sphere, and in fact these are diffeomorphic manifolds. The fibration mentioned previously is from the 7-sphere, and is an example of a Hopf fibration.\n\nThe 8-dimensional formula_46 has a circle action, by the group of complex scalars of absolute value 1 acting on the other side (so on the right, as the convention for the action of \"c\" above is on the left). Therefore, the quotient manifold\n\nmay be taken, writing U(1) for the circle group. It has been shown that this quotient is the 7-sphere, a result of Vladimir Arnold from 1996, later rediscovered by Edward Witten and Michael Atiyah.\n\n"}
{"id": "11346314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11346314", "title": "Radical democracy", "text": "Radical democracy\n\nRadical democracy was articulated by Ernesto Laclau and Chantal Mouffe in their book \"Hegemony and Socialist Strategy: Towards a Radical Democratic Politics\", written in 1985. They argue that social movements which attempt to create social and political change need a strategy which challenges neoliberal and neoconservative concepts of democracy. This strategy is to expand the liberal definition of democracy, based on freedom and equality, to include difference.\n\n\"Radical democracy\" means \"the root of democracy\". Laclau and Mouffe claim that liberal democracy and deliberative democracy, in their attempts to build consensus, oppress differing opinions, races, classes, genders, and worldviews. In the world, in a country, and in a social movement there are many (a plurality of) differences which resist consensus. Radical democracy is not only accepting of difference, dissent and antagonisms, but is dependent on it. Laclau and Mouffe argue based on the assumption that there are oppressive power relations that exist in society and that those oppressive relations should be made visible, re-negotiated and altered. By building democracy around difference and dissent, oppressive power relations existing in societies are able to come to the forefront so that they can be challenged.\n\nIn other contexts, radical democracy is a term used to refer to the post-Marxist perspectives of Italian radicalism—especially Paolo Virno.\n\nSince Laclau and Mouffe argued for a radical democracy, many other theorists and practitioners have adapted and changed the term. For example, bell hooks and Henry Giroux have all written about education for a radical democracy. Paulo Freire's work, although initiated decades before Laclau and Mouffe, can also be read through similar lenses. Theorists such as Paul Chatterton and Richard JF Day have written about the importance of radical democracy within some of the autonomous movements in Latin America (namely the EZLN—Zapatista Army of National Liberation in Mexico, the MST—Landless Workers' Movement in Brazil, and the Piquetero—Unemployed Workers Movement in Argentina).\n\nBecause of radical democracy's focus on difference, and challenging oppressive power relations, it has been seen as conducive to post-colonial theory and decolonization. However, the concept of radical democracy is seen in some circles as colonial in nature due to its reliance on a western notion of democracy. Also, radical democracy challenges consensus decision-making processes which are essential to many indigenous governing practices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5543013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5543013", "title": "Ragone plot", "text": "Ragone plot\n\nA Ragone plot (pronounced \"ru-GO-nee\") is a plot used for performance comparison of various energy-storing devices. On such a chart the values of specific energy (in W·h/kg) are plotted versus specific power (in W/kg). Both axes are logarithmic, which allows comparing performance of very different devices (for example, extremely high and extremely low power).\n\nThe Ragone plot was first used to compare performance of batteries. However, it is suitable to compare any energy-storing devices, as is shown in the graph on the right. The plot is named after David V. Ragone.\n\nConceptually, the vertical axis describes how much energy is available, while the horizontal axis shows how quickly that energy can be delivered, otherwise known as power, per unit mass. A point in a Ragone plot thus represents the amount of time during which the energy (per mass) on the Y-axis can be delivered at the power (per mass) on the X-axis, and that time (in hours) is given as the ratio between the energy and the power densities. Consequently, the iso curves in a Ragone plot are straight lines with unity slope. For example, powering a small light bulb may require low amounts of power, but the power should be delivered steadily enough to operate a flashlight for minutes or hours of use. Conversely, a high-speed electronic switch inside a computer may require very little energy to activate; yet it must be delivered rapidly enough to complete the transaction in mere microseconds. These two types of loads would be represented at opposite corners of the Ragone plot.\n\nwhere \"V\" is voltage (V), \"I\" electric current (A), \"t\" time (s) and \"m\" mass (kg).\n"}
{"id": "37251163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37251163", "title": "Reproductive coercion", "text": "Reproductive coercion\n\nReproductive coercion (also called coerced reproduction) is threats or acts of violence against a partner's reproductive health or reproductive decision-making and is a collection of behaviors intended to pressure or coerce a partner into initiating, keeping, or terminating a pregnancy. Reproductive coercion is a form of domestic violence, also known as intimate partner violence, where behavior concerning reproductive health is used to maintain power, control, and domination within a relationship and over a partner through an unwanted pregnancy. It is considered a serious public health issue. This reproductive control is highly correlated to unintended pregnancy.\n\nThe most common forms of reproductive coercion are pregnancy pressure, pregnancy coercion, and birth control sabotage; they can exist independently or occur simultaneously. Not complying with the partner's wishes may result in the partner acting out violently. \n\nPregnancy pressure is enacted by a woman's sexual partner when he pressures her into having unprotected sex in order to become pregnant, or into continuing or terminating the pregnancy. It might involve pregnancy coercion, which are threats or acts of violence if the woman does not comply with the perpetrator's demands or wishes. \n\nReproductive pressure behaviors may result in several unintended pregnancies that are then followed by multiple coerced abortions. Women who seek abortions are nearly three times as likely to have experienced reproductive pressure by a partner in the past year, compared to women continuing their pregnancies. A Guttmacher Institute policy analysis states that forcing a woman to terminate a pregnancy she wants or to continue a pregnancy she does not want violates the basic human right of her reproductive health.\n\nReproductive coercion can take the form of birth control sabotage, either as verbal sabotage, behavioral sabotage, and/or acts as an active interference with contraceptive methods. Direct actions are taken to ensure the failure of birth control (such as poking holes in or breaking condoms) or complete removal of contraception (such as flushing birth control pills down the toilet or removing contraceptive rings or patches from the body). Partners can also forbid women from using family planning or force them to have sex without protection.\n\nBirth control sabotage is frequently associated with physical or sexual violence, and is a contributor to high pregnancy rates—especially teenage pregnancy rates—among abused, disadvantaged women and teenagers.\n\nStudies on the birth control sabotage performed by males against female partners have indicated a strong correlation between domestic violence and birth control sabotage. These studies have identified two main classes of the phenomenon:\n\n14% of surveyed young mothers reported undergoing birth control sabotage. A separate study found that 66% of teen mothers on public assistance who had recently experienced intimate partner violence disclosed birth control sabotage by a dating partner. When women did try to negotiate condom use with their abusive partners, 32% said they were verbally threatened, 21% reported physical abuse, and 14% said their partners threatened abandonment.\n\nGender and sexual power dynamics and coercion associated with sexual power dynamics are both linked to condom nonuse. Even women with high STI knowledge are more likely to use condoms inconsistently than women with low STI knowledge when there is a high level of fear for abuse.\n\nTeenage girls in physically violent relationships are 3.5 times more likely to become pregnant and are 2.8 times more likely to fear the possible consequences of negotiating condom use than non-abused girls. They are also half as likely to use condoms consistently compared to non-abused girls, and teenage boys perpetrating dating violence are also less likely to use condoms. There are actions girls and women can take if their contraception has been stealthed or sabotaged: In the US, Plan B (the morning after pill) can be acquired by girls 15 years or older. When taken within 72 hours, it can help prevent an unwanted pregnancy. It is approximately 95% effective when taken within 24 hours and is approximately 89% effective when taken within 72 hours.\n\nTeenage mothers are nearly twice as likely to have a repeat pregnancy within 2 years if they experienced abuse within three months after delivery.\n\n26% of abused teenage girls reported that their boyfriends were trying to get them pregnant.\n\nDomestic violence, also called \"intimate partner violence\", is monitored by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Their survey on domestic violence measures five types of domestic violence, including control of reproductive health, citing pregnancy pressure and birth control sabotage specifically. While research remains fragmentary, women in abusive relationships appear to be at higher risk of reproductive coercion and unintended pregnancies.\n\nThe Center for Disease Control found that:\n\nA typical assessment of women's reproductive health includes the following questions:\n\nDue to the findings related to reproductive coercion and its prevalence, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has called for its members to be vigilant for reproductive coercion. Clinical implications discovered through case studies are the following: to assess for reproductive coercion as a part of a routine family planning care; to assess reproductive coercion before discussing contraceptive options; to offer discreet birth control methods; and to assess safety. Some believe that all reproductive health care settings should have a written protocol for identifying and responding to domestic violence that includes reproductive coercion, and agencies that already have a protocol should be reviewed and expanded to address reproductive coercion.\n\nIn Mexico, the government permits abortion, which is otherwise illegal, for women who have been coerced into pregnancy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2075914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2075914", "title": "Sarkis Zabunyan", "text": "Sarkis Zabunyan\n\nSarkis Zabunyan (), known as Sarkis, (; born September 26, 1938 in Istanbul, Turkey) is a Turkish-born Armenian conceptual artist living in France.\n\nBorn in Istanbul in 1938, Sarkis studied French, painting and interior design before moving to Paris in 1964. In 1967, he won the painting prize at the Biennale de Paris and presented his work \"Connaissez-vous Joseph Beuys ?\" at the Salon de Mai, in a reference to the man he considered the most important artist of the day. In 1969 he was invited by the critic and curator Harald Szeemann to take part in the now legendary show \"When Attitudes Become Form\". Teaching and the sharing of experience are key concerns of this artist. From 1980 to 1990 he was director of the Art Department at the École des Arts Décoratifs in Strasbourg, and from 1988 to 1995 he ran a seminar at the Institut des Hautes Etudes en Arts Plastiques created by Pontus Hulten.\nSince the 1980s, Sarkis has taken part in numerous international exhibitions (including Documenta and the biennials in Venice, Sydney, Istanbul and Moscow) and had his work shown in the world’s leading museums.\n\nIn the exhibition \"Passages\" at the Pompidou Centre in 2010, works by Sarkis were allowed to dialogue with works by Kasimir Malevich, the wall from André Breton’s studio, and \"Plight\" by Joseph Beuys, who is one of Sarkis’s sources of inspiration, along with the Russian filmmaker Andrei Tarkovsky, one of whose films he explored in the Brancusi studio. \"Passages\" evoked both the permanent back-and-forth between an artist’s studio and the museum, and Walter Benjamin’s great unfinished work about the arcades of Paris. The exhibition featured a series of recent or specially created works produced by the Pompidou Centre. These works, standing as the artist’s \"KRIEGSSCHATZ\" (trophies), comprised found objects, art works and ethnographic objects from different civilizations.\n\nIn 2011 the Musée d’Art Moderne et Contemporain in Geneva (MAMCO) devoted an important retrospective to the artist entitled \"Hôtel Sarkis\". The presentation on four floors brought together 200 works created between 1971 and 2011, and explored the artist’s different practices (video and sound installations, watercolours, photographs, films) and thus amplified the resonance of a body of work produced in response to other artists, whether musicians, architects, writers, philosophers, painters, sculptors or filmmakers.\n\nIn 2012, Sarkis presented \"Ballads\" in the 5000 square metres of the underwater Hangars, at the invitation of the Museum Boijmans van Beuningen and the Port of Rotterdam, as well as \"Ailleurs, Ici\" on the estate of Chaumont-sur-Loire, following a commission by the regional council of Centre. He has also taken part in the group show \"La Triennale – Intense Proximité\" at the Palais de Tokyo with his \"Frise des Trésors de Guerre\", showed at \"Néon, who’s afraid of red, yellow and blue?\" at La Maison Rouge – Fondation Antoine de Galbert, and Istanbul Modern at the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen.\n\nIn 2013, Sarkis took part in the exhibition \"When Attitudes Become Form, Bern 1969/Venice 2013\" at the Prada Foundation as part of the 55th Venice Biennale. He also showed at \"Passages Croisés en or\" at the Château d’Angers, and was invited to present his \"Frise de Guerre\" at the Museum of Old and New Art (MONA) in Tasmania as part of the exhibition \"The Red Queen\". Sarkis also participated in the exhibition \"Ici, Ailleurs\" as part of the Marseille – Provence, European Capital of Culture programme, and the exhibition \"Modernity? Perspectives from France and Turkey\" at the Istanbul Modern, and in his solo exhibition titled \"Sarkis – Cage/Ryoanji Interpretation\" at the ARTER – Space for Art in Istanbul. \nIn 2014 he exhibited his \"Ring Portraits\" at the Huis Marseille Museum voor Fotografie in Amsterdam, and was presented in three places: the CIAC, the MNAC and the Museum of the Romanian Peasant in Bucharest. A solo exhibition devoted to his work appeared at the Musée du Château des Ducs de Wurtemberg in Montbéliard.\n"}
{"id": "232928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232928", "title": "Siberian chiffchaff", "text": "Siberian chiffchaff\n\nSiberian chiffchaff (\"Phylloscopus (collybita) tristis\") is a leaf-warbler which is usually considered a subspecies of the common chiffchaff, but may be a species in its own right.\n\nSiberian chiffchaff breeds in Siberia east of the Pechora River and winters in the lower Himalayas.\n\nIt is also regularly recorded in western Europe in winter, and it is likely that the numbers involved have been underestimated due to uncertainties over identification criteria, lack of good data and recording policies (Sweden and Finland only accept trapped birds).\n\nBecause of their unfamiliar appearance, British records in the 1950s and 1960s were originally thought to be greenish warblers, and accepted as such by BBRC, the national rarities committee, until the records were reviewed in the 1980s.\n\nA Gambell, AK bird discovered by Alexander Lin-Moore and Ethan Goodman on June 5, 2015 and seen by many birders would be the 4th (or 5th?) reported in North America.\n\nIt is a dull bird, grey or brownish above and whitish below, with little yellow in the plumage, and the buff-white supercilium is often longer than in the western subspecies. It has a higher pitched \"suitsistsuisit\" song and a short high-pitched \"cheet\" call. It is sometimes considered to be a full species due to its distinctive plumage and vocalisations, being similar to \"P. s. sindianus\" in these respects.\n\nCommon chiffchaffs (of the nominate race) and Siberian chiffchaffs do not recognize each other's songs. Pending resolution of the status of the form \"fulvescens\", which is found where the ranges of common chiffchaff (of the race \"abietinus\") and Siberian chiffchaff connect and may or may not be a hybrid between these, \"tristis\" is maintained in \"P. collybita\" by most checklists.\n\n"}
{"id": "52601346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52601346", "title": "Social bot", "text": "Social bot\n\nA social bot (also: socialbot or socbot) is a particular type of chatbot that is employed in social media networks to automatically generate messages (e.g. tweets) or in general advocate certain ideas, support campaigns, and public relations either by acting as a \"follower\" or even as a fake account that gathers followers itself. In this respect, social bots can be said to have passed the Turing test. \n\nSocial bots appear to have played a significant role in the United States presidential election, 2016 and their history appears to go back at least to the United States midterm elections, 2010. It is estimated that 9-15% of active Twitter accounts may be social bots and that 15% of the total Twitter population active in the US Presidential election discussion were bots. At least 400,000 thousand bots were responsible for about 3.8 million tweets, roughly 19% of the total volume. All these claims are disputed.\n\nTwitterbots are already well-known examples, but corresponding autonomous agents on Facebook and elsewhere have also been observed. Nowadays, social bots can generate convincing internet personas that are well capable of influencing real people, although they are not always reliable.\n\nSocial bots, besides being able to produce messages autonomously, also share many traits with spambots with respect to their tendency to infiltrate large user groups.\n\nUsing social bots is against the terms of service of many platforms, especially Twitter and Instagram . However many users, especially businesses still automate their Instagram activity in order to gain real followers rather than buying fake ones. This is commonly done through third-party social automation companies.\n\nUnless strict regulations on their use are passed, socialbots are expected to play a major role in future shaping of public opinion by autonomously acting as incessant and never-tiring influencers.\n\nLutz Finger identifies 5 immediate uses for social bots:\nThe effects of all points can be likened to and support methods of traditional psychological warfare.\n\nThe first generation of bots could sometimes be distinguished from real users by their often superhuman capacities to post messages around the clock (and at massive rates). Later developments have succeeded in imprinting more \"human\" activity and behavioural patterns in the agent. To unambiguously detect social bots as what they are, a variety of criteria must be applied together using pattern detection techniques, some of which are:\nBotometer (formerly BotOrNot) is a public Web service that checks the activity of a Twitter account and gives it a score based on how likely the account is to be a bot. The system leverages over a thousand features.\nAn active method that worked well in detecting early spam bots was to set up honeypot accounts where obvious nonsensical content was posted and then dumbly reposted (retweeted) by bots. Another method of detection is analysis of speed of change of the social network metrics: in particular, number of friends or followers for social bot grows very quickly, and clustering stays very low. That is explained by usage of \"friend farm\" services to collect large number of friends in a short period of time.\n"}
{"id": "1704228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704228", "title": "Soil conservation", "text": "Soil conservation\n\nSoil conservation is the preventing of soil loss from erosion or reduced fertility caused by over usage, acidification, salinization or other chemical soil contamination.\n\nSlash-and-burn and other unsustainable methods of subsistence farming are practiced in some lesser developed areas. A sequel to the deforestation is typically large scale erosion, loss of soil nutrients and sometimes total desertification. Techniques for improved soil conservation include crop rotation, cover crops, conservation tillage and planted windbreaks and affect both erosion and fertility. When plants, especially trees, die, they decay and become part of the soil. Code 330 defines standard methods recommended by the U.S. Natural Resources Conservation Service.\nFarmers have practiced soil conservation for millennia. In Europe, policies such as the Common Agricultural Policy are targeting the application of best management practices such as reduced tillage, winter cover crops, plant residues and grass margins in order to better address the soil conservation.Political and economic action is further required to solve the erosion problem. A simple governance hurdle concerns how we name and value the land and what we call it and this can be changed by cultural adaptation.\n\nContour ploughing orients furrows following the contour lines of the farmed area. Furrows move left and right to maintain a constant altitude, which reduces runoff. Contour ploughing was practiced by the ancient Phoenicians, and is effective for slopes between two and ten percent. Contour plowing can increase crop yields from 10 to 50 percent, partially as a result of greater soil retention.\n\nTerracing is the practice of creating nearly level areas in a hillside area. The terraces form a series of steps, each at a higher level than the previous. Terraces are protected from erosion by other soil barriers.\n\nTerraced farming is more common on small farms and in underdeveloped countries, since mechanized equipment is difficult to deploy in this setting.\nIt protects the soil from its erosion. It is one of the way by which soil erosion can be stopped. It is the step can be cut out on the slopes making terraces. It restricts soil erosion. It is practiced in western and central Himalayas\n\nKeyline design is an enhancement of contour farming, where the total watershed properties are taken into account in forming the contour lines.\n\nTree, shrubs and ground-cover are effective perimeter treatment for soil erosion prevention, by impeding surface flows. A special form of this perimeter or inter-row treatment is the use of a “grass way” that both channels and dissipates runoff through surface friction, impeding surface runoff and encouraging infiltration of the slowed surface water.\n\nWindbreaks are sufficiently dense rows of trees at the windward exposure of an agricultural field subject to wind erosion. Evergreen species provide year-round protection; however, as long as foliage is present in the seasons of bare soil surfaces, the effect of deciduous trees may be adequate.\n\nCover crops such as legumes plant, white turnip, radishes and other species are rotated with cash crops to blanket the soil year-round and act as green manure that replenishes nitrogen and other critical nutrients. Cover crops also help suppress weeds.\n\nSoil-conservation farming involves no-till farming, “green manures” and other soil-enhancing practices. Such farming methods attempt to mimic the biology of barren lands. They can revive damaged soil, minimize erosion, encourage plant growth, eliminate the use of nitrogen fertilizer or fungicide, produce above-average yields and protect crops during droughts or flooding. The result is less labor and lower costs that increase farmers’ profits. No-till farming and cover crops act as sinks for nitrogen and other nutrients. This increases the amount of soil organic matter.\n\nRepeated plowing/tilling degrades soil, killing its beneficial fungi and earthworms. Once damaged, soil may take multiple seasons to fully recover, even in optimal circumstances.\n\nCritics argue that no-till and related methods are impractical and too expensive for many growers, partly because it requires new equipment. They cite advantages for conventional tilling depending on the geography, crops and soil conditions. Some farmers claimed that no-till complicates weed control, delays planting and that post-harvest residues, especially for corn, are hard to manage.\n\nSalinity in soil is caused by irrigating with salty water. Water then evaporates from the soil leaving the salt behind. Salt breaks down the soil structure, causing infertility and reduced growth.\nThe ions responsible for salination are: sodium (Na, potassium (K, calcium (Ca, magnesium (Mg and chlorine (Cl. Salinity is estimated to affect about one third of the earth’s arable land. Soil salinity adversely affects crop metabolism and erosion usually follows.\n\nSalinity occurs on drylands from overirrigation and in areas with shallow saline water tables. Over-irrigation deposits salts in upper soil layers as a byproduct of soil infiltration; irrigation merely increases the rate of salt deposition. The best-known case of shallow saline water table capillary action occurred in Egypt after the 1970 construction of the Aswan Dam. The change in the groundwater level led to high salt concentrations in the water table. The continuous high level of the water table led to soil salination.\n\nUse of humic acids may prevent excess salination, especially given excessive irrigation. Humic acids can fix both anions and cations and eliminate them from root zones. Planting species that can tolerate saline conditions to produce surface cover can preserve soil salinity can be reduced. Salt-tolerant plants include saltbush, a plant found in much of North America and in the Mediterranean regions of Europe.\n\nPagal Organisms In Soil\nWhen worms excrete egesta in the form of casts, a balanced selection of minerals and plant nutrients is made into a form accessible for root uptake. Earthworm casts are five times richer in available nitrogen, seven times richer in available phosphates and eleven times richer in available potash than the surrounding upper of soil. The weight of casts produced may be greater than 4.5 kg per worm per year. By burrowing, the earthworm improves soil porosity, creating channels that enhance the processes of aeration and drainage.\n\nOther important soil organisms include nematodes, mycorrizha and bacteria.\n\nDegraded soil requires synthetic fertilizer to produce high yields. Lacking structure increases erosion and carries nitrogen and other pollutants into rivers and streams.\n\nEach one percent increase in soil organic matter helps soil hold 20,000 gallons more water per acre.\n\nTo allow plants full realization of their phytonutrient potential, active mineralization of the soil is sometimes undertaken. This can involve adding crushed rock or chemical soil supplements. In either case the purpose is to combat mineral depletion. A broad range of minerals can be used, including common substances such as phosphorus and more exotic substances such as zinc and selenium. Extensive research examines the phase transitions of minerals in soil with aqueous contact.\n\nFlooding can bring significant sediments to an alluvial plain. While this effect may not be desirable if floods endanger life or if the sediment originates from productive land, this process of addition to a floodplain is a natural process that can rejuvenate soil chemistry through mineralization.\n\n"}
{"id": "1788567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1788567", "title": "Sound art", "text": "Sound art\n\nSound art is an artistic discipline in which sound is utilised as a primary medium. Like many genres of contemporary art, sound art may be interdisciplinary in nature, or be used in hybrid forms. Sound art can be considered as being an element of many areas such as acoustics, psychoacoustics, electronics, noise music, audio media, found or environmental sound, soundscapes, explorations of the human body, sculpture, architecture, film or video and other aspects of the current discourse of contemporary art.\n\nIn Western art, early examples include Luigi Russolo's \"Intonarumori\" or noise intoners, and subsequent experiments by Dadaists, Surrealists, the Situationist International, and in Fluxus happenings. Because of the diversity of sound art, there is often debate about whether sound art falls within the domains of visual art or experimental music categories, or both. Other artistic lineages from which sound art emerges are conceptual art, minimalism, site-specific art, sound poetry, electro-acoustic music, spoken word, avant-garde poetry, and experimental theatre.\n\nThe earliest documented use of the term in the U.S. is from a catalogue for a show called \"Sound/Art\" at The Sculpture Center in New York City, created by William Hellerman in 1983. The show was sponsored by \"The SoundArt Foundation,\" which Hellerman founded in 1982. The artists featured in the show were: Vito Acconci, Connie Beckley, Bill and Mary Buchen, Nicolas Collins, Sari Dienes and Pauline Oliveros, Richard Dunlap, Terry Fox, William Hellermann, Jim Hobart, Richard Lerman, Les Levine, Joe Lewis, Tom Marioni, Jim Pomeroy, Alan Scarritt, Carolee Schneeman, Bonnie Sherk, Keith Sonnier, Norman Tuck, Hannah Wilke, Yom Gagatzi. The following is an excerpt from the catalogue essay by art historian Don Goddard: \"It may be that sound art adheres to curator Hellermann's perception that \"hearing is another form of seeing,' that sound has meaning only when its connection with an image is understood... The conjunction of sound and image insists on the engagement of the viewer, forcing participation in real space and concrete, responsive thought rather than illusionary space and thought.\" Sound art always takes place in an acoustic context, which may influence interpretation as much as if not more than any associated imagery. Installations of sound art rely on the acoustics of the spaces and reproduction technologies employed as can be exemplified by current practitioners such as Chris Watson.\n\nThe Klankenbos (Sound forest) of Provinciaal Domein Dommelhof is the biggest sound art collection in public space in Europe. In the forest there are 15 sound installation pieces by artists such as Pierre Berthet, Paul Panhuysen, Geert Jan Hobbijn (Staalplaat Soundsystem), Hans van Koolwijk, and others. Yearly in Kortrijk there is the sound art festival Wilde Westen (formerly known as Happy New Ears). In Brussels there are QO2 and Overtoon, two organisations that run artist-in-residence programs and organize events. Logos Foundation from Ghent is a sound art org run by Godfried-Willem Raes.\n\nIn Zadar there is the Sea Organ which plays music by way of sea waves and tubes located underneath a set of large marble steps.\n\nOriginally from Amsterdam, but moved to Berlin is Staalplaat, a record label focused on sound art and experimental music. Transmediale is a yearly festival focused on media art, covering many sound art performances and installations.\n\nThe Dutch sound art tradition started more or less in the Philips Natuurkundig Laboratorium where Dick Raaijmakers worked in the 60s. Paul Panhuysen and Remko Scha developed many early sound art pieces in the 70s and 80s and set up the Apollohuis in Eindhoven. STEIM. WORM, Extrapool are active organisations that have sound art activities. Polderlicht was a sound art festival running from 2000–2015. iii (Instrument Inventors innitiative]] is a The Hague based organisation focused on the creation of sound art pieces. The organisation has an active artist-in-residence program and continuously invites sound artists to make new works at their location. The Netherlands have three academies where you can study in the direction of sound art Institute of Sonology, Art Science at Royal Academy of Art, The Hague and at the Utrecht School of the Arts in Utrecht.\n\nLydgalleriet (The Soundgallery) is a non-commercial gallery for sound based art practices, situated in the centre of Bergen.\n\nPlaying the Building was an art installation by David Byrne, ex singer of Talking Heads, and Färgfabriken, an independent art venue in Stockholm. Elektronmusikstudion is an active organisation.\n\nA known sound art pieces in the UK are Blackpool High Tide Organ and Singing Ringing Tree. Although not build as sound art pieces, the UK has several acoustic mirrors along the coastline often explored by field recorders.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "565501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=565501", "title": "Status symbol", "text": "Status symbol\n\nA status symbol is a perceived visible, external denotation of one's social position and perceived indicator of economic or social status. Many luxury goods are often considered status symbols. \"Status symbol\" is also a sociological term – as part of social and sociological symbolic interactionism – relating to how individuals and groups interact and interpret various cultural symbols.\n\nAs people aspire to high status, they often seek also its symbols. As with other symbols, status symbols may change in value or meaning over time, and will differ among countries and cultural regions, based on their economy and technology. \n\nFor example, before the invention of the printing press, possession of a large collection of laboriously hand-copied books was a symbol of wealth and scholarship. In later centuries, books (and literacy) became more common, so a private library became less-rarefied as a status symbol, though a sizable collection still commands respect.\n\nIn some past cultures of East Asia, pearls and jade were major status symbols, reserved exclusively for royalty. Similar legal exclusions applied to the toga and its variants in ancient Rome, and to cotton in the Aztec Empire. Special colors, such as imperial yellow (in China) or royal purple (in ancient Rome) were reserved for royalty, with severe penalties for unauthorized display. Another common status symbol of the European medieval past was heraldry, a display of one's family name and history.\n\nStatus symbols also indicate the cultural values of a society or a subculture. For example, in a commercial society, having money or wealth and things that can be bought by wealth, such as cars, houses, or fine clothing, are considered status symbols. Where warriors are respected, a scar can represent honor or courage. Among intellectuals being able to think in an intelligent and educated way is an important status symbol regardless of material possessions. In academic circles, a long list of publications and a securely tenured position at a prestigious university or research institute are a mark of high status. It has been speculated that the earliest foods to be domesticated were luxury feast foods used to cement one's place as a \"rich person\".\n\nA uniform symbolizes membership in an organization, and may display additional insignia of rank, specialty, tenure and other details of the wearer's status within the organization. A state may confer decorations, medals or badges that can show that the wearer has heroic or official status. Elaborate color-coded academic regalia is often worn during commencement ceremonies, indicating academic rank and specialty.\n\nIn many cultures around the world, diverse visual markers of marital status are widely used. Coming of age rituals and other rites of passage may involve granting and display of symbols of a new status. Dress codes may specify who ought to wear particular kinds or styles of clothing, and when and where specific items of clothing are displayed.\n\nThe condition and appearance of one's body can be a status symbol. In times past, when most workers did physical labor outdoors under the sun and often had little food, being pale and fat was a status symbol, indicating wealth and prosperity (through having more than enough food and not having to do manual labor). Now that workers usually do less-physical work indoors and find little time for exercise, being tanned and thin is often a status symbol in modern cultures.\n\nDieting to reduce excess body fat is widely practiced in Western society, while some traditional societies still value obesity as a sign of prosperity. Development of muscles through exercise, previously disdained as a stigma of doing heavy manual labor, is now valued as a sign of personal achievement. Some groups, such as extreme bodybuilders and sumo wrestlers use special exercise and diet to \"bulk up\" into an impressive appearance.\n\nAncient Central American Maya cultures artificially induced crosseyedness and flattened the foreheads of high-born infants as a permanent, lifetime sign of noble status. The Mayans also filed their teeth to sharp points to look fierce, or inset precious stones into their teeth as decoration.\n\nLuxury goods are often perceived as status symbols. Examples may include a mansion or penthouse apartment, a trophy spouse, haute couture fashionable clothes, jewellery, or a luxury vehicle. A sizeable collection of high-priced artworks or antiques may be displayed, sometimes in multiple seasonally occupied residences located around the world. Privately owned aircraft and luxury yachts are movable status symbols that can be taken from one glamorous location to another; the \"jet set\" refers to wealthy individuals who travel by private jet and who frequent fashionable resorts.\n\nStatus symbols are also used by persons of much more modest means. In the Soviet Union before the fall of the Berlin Wall, possession of American-style blue jeans or rock music recordings (even pirated or bootlegged copies) was an important status symbol among rebellious teenagers. In the 1990s, foreign cigarettes in China, where a pack of Marlboro could cost one day's salary for some workers, were seen as a status symbol. Mobile phone usage had been considered a status symbol (for example in Turkey in the early 1990s), but is less distinctive today, because of the spread of inexpensive mobile phones. Nonetheless Apple products such as iPod or iPhone are common status symbols among modern teenagers.\n\nA common type of modern status symbol is a prestigious luxury branded item, whether apparel or other type of a good. The brand name or logo is often prominently displayed, or featured as a graphic design element of decoration. Certain brands are so highly valued that cheap counterfeit goods or knock-off copies are purchased and displayed by those who do not want to, or are unable to, pay for the genuine item.\n"}
{"id": "36708276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36708276", "title": "Student Bill of Rights", "text": "Student Bill of Rights\n\nA Student Bill of Rights or Charter of Student Rights and Freedoms is a document adopted by a student group, university or college or government at a local, state or national level. It outlines a population's basic beliefs regarding student rights. These statements of belief are often the foundation for future legislative efforts or collaborative efforts to create joint statements between organizations. The European Student Union, for example, uses their Student Rights Charter when lobbying for student rights in the European Union Higher Education Area as a document representing the student will. The historic National Student Association in the United States used their Student Bill of Rights to help create dialogue between the American Association of University Professors and to initiate the creation of a joint statement on student rights. This collaborative effort gave credence to the demands of students and helped normalize student rights on campuses across North America. While the United States Student Association does not have a student bill of rights of its own, it upholds the 1947 student bill of rights put forth by the National Student Association.\n\nThese documents tend to do several things. They can be statements of belief, policy or law. When put forth by a student organization or third party organization they tend to be statements of belief because these organizations do not often have the ability to enforce their beliefs. Even though they are not legally binding they are important because they help policy and lawmakers understand what students expect and believe to be ethical treatment. At the institutional level they tend to be policy statements. These are legally binding as a promise from the institution to the students who attend and have been found in court to be considered to be part of the educational contract.\n\nAt any level these documents provide students with an understanding of their civil or legal rights which are already contained in legislation. These include rights pertinent to all citizens and also to students in the educational setting and provide procedural rights to inform students how institutions should be respecting their legal rights. When used as a statement of belief, however, they often include rights an organization feels students should have and the procedural rights institutions must follow to ensure these rights are fulfilled. There are currently a number of student petitions calling for the creation of national student bills in various countries. While there have been some attempts to create subject specific student bills in the United States, like the Academic Bill of Rights, these have not been successful due primarily for demand for a document which is wider in scope and deals with students constitutional, civil, contractual and consumer rights.\n\nNo country in North America has yet adopted a National Student Bill of Rights, Charter of Rights and Freedoms or Code of Rights and Responsibilities.\n\nIn the United States there have been several national student bill of rights drafted by student organizations including the historic National Student Association and the American Association of University Professors and other non-governmantal organizations but as yet none have been legally institutionalized.\n\nIn 1947 the National Student Association NSA in the United States adopted a student bill of rights. The text of this document is not easily accessible. In 1967, however, the NSA put forth a joint statement on the rights and freedoms of students with the American Association of University Professors AAUP (now the Association of American Colleges and Universities). This statement was endorsed by a number of professional organizations. This document included the following rights:\n\nConstitutional Rights\nSpeech and Association Rights\nDue Process Rights\nClassroom Rights\n\nThe United States Student Association does not have an official student bill of rights. The USSA was formed when the historic NSA merged with the National Student Lobby NSL in 1978. They did not officially adopt the student bill of rights put forth in 1947. They text of this document is not on their website and cannot easily be found with a search of the internet.\n\nIn 2003, Georgia Congressman Kingston proposed the first national student bill of rights, House Bill #318. This bill, which was rejected in congress, was not an all encompassing student bill of rights but was narrowly defined to address academic freedom. Nevertheless, it was the first attempt at the creation of national legislation. The congressman found that \"at almost every American university, conservative professors are drastically outnumbered.\" This bill was intended to secure the intellectual freedom of students and faculty. It did not address whether teachers would have the freedom to determine all course goals, curriculum, assignments, grading schemes and course timeline. These issues are of major importance because students in Europe are calling for rights which protect students from teachers having complete academic freedom in the classroom and which regulate them to ensure students have minimum educational quality standards.\n\nIn the United States individual institutions often have their own Student Bill of Rights, Charter of Rights and Freedoms or Code of Rights and Responsibilities. In elementary and secondary education these codes are often drafted by school board officials with perhaps the input of parent or parent teacher associations. In post secondary institutions these are often drafted by the academic senate with the contribution of student representatives. This process often includes varying degrees of student input from student surveys to no student voice and the academic senate may have as much as 50% student representation or as little as 0% student representation depending on the structure of the institution.\n\nThe Canadian Federation of Students has yet to accept a student bill or rights, code of rights and responsibilities or a charter of rights and freedoms. The Canadian Encyclopedia, which details issues of Canadian life and governance, however, states that in Canada \"Basically 2 sorts of rights apply to students: substantive rights - the actual rights that students should enjoy - and procedural rights - methods by which students claim their rights. This article is concerned with students in public institutions, although those in private schools can claim rights under the common law and provincial education Acts.\"\n\nIn the 1960s, the Canadian Union of Students had adopted the Declaration on the Canadian Student, a declaration aimed defining the rights and role of a student. The Declaration was adopted at the September 1965 annual meeting of the CUS, and was initiated mainly by the Students' Union of the University of Ottawa President Jock Turcot. A year later, the CUS re-affirmed the \"fundamental philosophy\" behind the Declaration.\n\nIn 2008 the European Student Union adopted a Student Rights Charter which is in essence their platform. This document includes those rights and freedoms which members of the European student Union are lobbying for in their own countries. Romania currently has the strongest student rights legislation in the European Union and this is in part to do with the efforts of the European Student Union to press for legislation. The 2008 ESU Student Rights Charter includes the following rights:\n\nAccess to Higher Education\nStudent Involvement\nExtracurricular Aspect of Study\nCurricular Aspect of Study\n\nRomania is the country which has the greatest student rights legislation currently in place. In 2010 the National Alliance of student organizations in Romania, which is also part of the European Student Union, and the Romanian Students' Union(USR) worked with the Romanian National Government to bring into law the Romanian National Student Code of Rights and Responsibilities. This document provides Romanian students with roughly a hundred which theoretical rights and procedural rights necessary to ensure theoretical rights are fulfilled. This document includes the following rights:\n\nEducational Package Rights\nContract Rights\nEquitability Rights\nAccountability & Quality Assurance Rights\nDue Process Rights\nInformation Accessibility Rights\n\nIt does not seem that Asia has any national or continental student rights bills in place.\n\nIt does not seem that Africa has any national or continental student rights bills in place.\n\nIt does not seem that South or Central America has any national or continental student rights bills in place.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13718304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13718304", "title": "Terminal countdown demonstration test", "text": "Terminal countdown demonstration test\n\nA terminal countdown demonstration test (TCDT) is a simulation of the final hours of a launch countdown and serves as a practice exercise in which both the launch team and flight crew rehearse launch day timelines and procedures. In the specific case of a TCDT for the Space Shuttle, the test culminated in a simulated ignition and RSLS Abort (automated shutdown of the orbiter's main engines). Following the simulated abort, the flight crew was briefed on emergency egress procedures and use of the fixed service structure slidewire system. On some earlier shuttle missions, and Apollo missions, the test would conclude with the flight crew evacuating the launch pad by use of these emergency systems, however this is no longer part of the test.\n\nUnmanned carrier rocket launches also undergo TCDTs, when countdown procedures are followed. These vary for specific rockets, for example solid-fuelled rockets would not simulate an engine shutdown, as it is impossible to shut down a solid rocket after it has been lit.\n\nTCDTs typically are carried out a few days before launch.\n\n"}
{"id": "41973789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41973789", "title": "Tyāga", "text": "Tyāga\n\nTyāga (Sanskrit: त्याग) is a Sanskrit word that means \"sacrifice, giving up in generosity, forsaking, resigning\" anything of value, as well as \"renunciation\" depending on the context. It is an ethical concept in Hinduism and Jainism.\n\nTyāga means – sacrifice, renunciation, abandonment, resignation, donation, forsaking, liberality, withdrawal Tyāga which is not merely physical renunciation of the world is different from Sannyasa; Sannyasa which comes from the root as means – \"giving up entirely\", Tyāga means – \"giving up with generosity what one could probably have kept\".\n\nTyāga or abandonment refers to giving up of all anxieties for enjoying the fruits of actions; through practice of this kind of \"tyāga\" infusing discipline in daily activities the momentary anxiety to enjoy fruits of actions is overcome. It is a subjective renunciation of selfishness and desire.\n\n\"Yajna is Tyāga \". The Vedic interpretation of renunciation (\"tyāga \") of the fruits of ritual acts including – \"agnistomena svargakāmo yajeta\" – \"the desire for heaven\", which renunciation is to be found expressed in the phrase – \"agnaye idam na mama\" – \"this is for Agni, not for me\" – pronounced by the yajamana at the time of the oblation.\n\nThe Tejobindu Upanishad belonging to Krishna- yajurveda explains that in \"Tyāga\" ('renunciation') one abandons the manifestations or objects of the universe through the cognition of Atman that is \"Sat\" and \"Cit\" and this is practiced by the wise as the giver of immediate salvation. Thus, Kaivalya Upanishad portrays the state of man on the way of renunciation (\"tyāga\") as having become free of all attachment to the worldly and who, consequently knows and feels himself only as the one divine essence that lives in all.\n\nMoksha consists in securing lasting freedom from the bondage of existence in the form of birth and death and realizing God who is no other than Bliss (Brahman). Chapter VIII of the Bhagavad Gita deals with Sannyasa and Tyāga, the Paths of Knowledge and Action that are means to the attainment of moksha. Krishna tells Arjuna that even though \"sannyāsa\" is understood as the giving up of all actions motivated by desires, and \"tyāga\" consists in relinquishing the fruit of all actions; that all actions are worth giving up because they contain a measure of evil that acts of sacrifice, charity and penance are not worth shunning, there are three kinds of \"Tyāga\" – \"Sattvika\", \"Rajasika\" and \"Tamasika\" (Sloka XVIII.4). Whereas acts of sacrifice, charity and penance, the purifiers of wise men, must be performed without attachment and hope of award, Krishna states - मोहात्तस्य परित्यागस्तामसः (the abandonment of prescribed duty through ignorance) is not advisable, it is the \"Tamasika\" form of \"tyāga\"; if it is owing to कायक्लेशभयात्तयजेत् (abandonment for fear of physical strain) then it is \"Rajasika\" form; if it is –\n\nThereafter, Arjuna is told about the marks of a Sattvika-man of renunciation and that since all actions cannot be given up in their entirety by anyone possessing a body, he alone, who abstains from prohibited actions and those that are motivated by desire and performs duties, renounces the fruit of actions is called a man of renunciation; no fruits of actions accrues for him (Sloka XVIII.11-12). In the preceding discourses, Krishna had recommended to Arjuna actions which ought to be performed as duty (Ch.III.19); He told him to perform ordained actions (Ch.III.8), to be free from attachment (Ch.III.9,19 & Ch.II.48), and to have no desire for the fruit of action (Ch.II.47); Krishna had recommended \"Sattvika-tyāga\".\n\nSannyasa literally means – throwing away, absolute rejection, formal monastic life; in the Bhagavad Gita, it means – mental state of thorough-going renunciation, of uncompromising abandonment of all that is unfit and unworthy, of intense dispassion toward things of the world, both internal and external. Tyāga literally means – abandonment, the turning from all that hinders the realization of the Self; in the Bhagavad Gita, it means – renunciation in the sense of relinquishment of the fruit of action. Sannyāsa is external, even though it is based on internal disposition; Tyāga is completely mental, it is a state of thought and attitude. Arjuna is emphatically told that it is possible to act and accrue no karma whatsoever; it is a matter of consciousness.\n\nIn this context, Chinmayananda remarks that abandonment is the true content of the status of renunciation – \"sannyāsa\" without the \"tyāga\" spirit is but an empty show; real abandonment is meant for rising to a nobler status of fulfilment, leading on to the ampler fields of expression, to fuller ways of living and to greater experiences of joy. And, Aurobindo explains that – \"Sannysa in the standing of the terminology of the sages means the laying aside of desirable actions. In that sense Tyāga, not Sannyasa, is the better way. It is not the desirable actions that must be laid aside, but the desire that gives them that character has to be put away from us... The spiritual transference of all works to the Master and his Shakti is the real sannyāsa in the teachings of the Gita... The essence of renunciation, the true Tyāga, the true sannyāsa is not any rule of thumb of inaction but a disinterested soul, a selfless mind, the transition from ego to the free impersonal and spiritual nature. \"\n\nSelf-discipline too becomes a form of \"Sattvika-tyāga\", during the course of which exercise one has control over negative emotions and behaviours such as anger, greed and pride. The Bhagavad Gita projects action to serve as steps on the path of spiritual ascent, as an effective means to purify the mind through diligently cultivated mental discipline in action; the true fruit of Tyāga is an elevating sense of peace and fulfillment, even if it entails a bit of physical discomfort.\n\nAccording to Tattvartha Sutra, an ascetic’s dharma consists of ten elements i.e. abstract virtues, which are – \"ksama\" ('forebearance'), \"mardava\" ('humility'), \"arjava\" ('uprightness'), \"sauca\" ('desirelessness'), \"satya\" ('truthfulness'), \"samyama\" ('self-discipline'), \"tapas\" ('self-mortification'), \"tyaga\" ('renunciation'), \"akincanya\" ('poverty') and \"brahmacharya\" ('celibacy'). Hemachandra has recognized only two of the ten \"pratyakhyanas\" viz. \"sanketa-pratyakhyana\" and \"addha-pratyakhyana\", the former, which is of eight types, is symbolic and the devotee refrains from taking food for some time by which renunciation he recalls his mind to his religious duties; the latter, is ritualistic, also connected with abstention from or renouncing food, and has a set methodology to adopt. Ahimsa-vrata practiced by the \"Svetambras\" refers to the renunciation of killing. Basically, there are five kinds of \"tyāgas\" included in the eleven pratimās viz. \"sacitta-tyāga pratimā\", the stage of renouncing uncooked food; \"ārambha-tyāga pratimā\", the stage of abandonment of all professional activity; \"parigraha-tyāga pratimā\", the stage of transferring publicly one’s property to a son or relative; \"anumati-tyāga pratimā\", the stage of leaving the household and refraining from counselling in household matters, and \"uddista-tyāga pratimā\", the stage of not eating food especially prepared for oneself i.e. the stage of seeking alms like a monk, commonly followed by \" Svetambras \", \" Digambaras \" and \"Avasyaka-Curni\". Nemicandra gives a list of eighty-four asatanas which includes \"sacittanām atayāga\" or failure to remove sentient objects and \"ajive tyāga\" or failure to remove non-sentient objects.\n"}
{"id": "20236795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20236795", "title": "Vagrich Bakhchanyan", "text": "Vagrich Bakhchanyan\n\nVagrich (Vahrij) Hakobi (Akopovich) Bakhchanyan (; ; ; born May 23, 1938 in Kharkiv, Soviet Ukraine - November 12, 2009, New York City, United States) was a Soviet and American painter, artist and writer-conceptualist (and/or conceptual poet and writer) of Armenian origin and in the Russian language.\n\nHe was born to an ethnic Armenian family in Kharkiv, Ukraine, where he grew up, studied and began painting. In the mid-1960s he moved to Moscow, where he worked at \"Literaturnaya Gazeta\". In 1974 Bakhchanyan emigrated to United States, and lived in New York City, where he was active in the literary and art scene. There he collaborated with Russian and Soviet émigré writers Sergei Dovlatov, Alexander Genis, and Naum Sagalovsky (Наум Сагаловський, Kyiv, 1935), among others. He died on November 12, 2009 in New York City. According to Vagrich's last will, his ashes were scattered high in the Geghama mountains (Armenia), over a stone covered with ancient petroglyphs.\n\nAccording to Alexander Genis, Bakhchanyan \"possessed a keen sensitivity to the absurdities of the Soviet regime. By developing and experimenting with inventive artistic strategies, Bakhchanyan broadened the range of expressive possibilities for other nonconformist artists. Many of his puns became an intrinsic part of Soviet dissident culture.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1554120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1554120", "title": "Wellness (alternative medicine)", "text": "Wellness (alternative medicine)\n\nWellness is generally used to mean a state beyond absence of illness but rather aims to optimize well-being.\n\nThe notions behind the term share the same roots as the alternative medicine movement, in 19th-century movements in the US and Europe that sought to optimize health and to consider the whole person, like New Thought, Christian Science, and Lebensreform.\n\nThe term was partly inspired by the preamble to the World Health Organization’s 1948 constitution which said: “Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.” It was initially brought to use in the US by Halbert L. Dunn, M.D. in the 1950s; Dunn was the chief of the National Office of Vital Statistics and discussed “high-level wellness,” which he defined as “an integrated method of functioning, which is oriented toward maximizing the potential of which the individual is capable.” The term \"wellness\" was then adopted by John Travis who opened a \"Wellness Resource Center\" in Mill Valley, California in the mid-1970s, which was seen by mainstream culture as part of the hedonistic culture of Northern California at that time and typical of the Me generation. Travis marketed the center as alternative medicine, opposed to what he said was the disease-oriented approach of medicine. The concept was further popularized by Robert Rodale through \"Prevention\" magazine, Bill Hetler, a doctor at University of Wisconsin–Stevens Point, who set up an annual academic conference on wellness, and Tom Dickey, who established the Berkeley Wellness Letter in the 1980s. The term had become accepted as standard usage in the 1990s.\n\nBy the late 2000s the concept had become widely used in employee assistance programs in workplaces, and funding for development of such programs in small business was included in the Affordable Care Act. The use of corporate wellness programs has been criticised as being discriminatory to people with disabilities. At the same time, while there were magazines devoted to wellness, it was noted that mainstream news sources had begun to devote more page space to \"health and wellness themes\".\n\nThe US Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration uses the concept of wellness in its programs, defining it as having eight aspects: emotional, environmental, financial, intellectual, occupational, physical, social, and spiritual.\n\nThe wellness trend has been criticised as a form of conspicuous consumption.\n\n"}
{"id": "51289352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51289352", "title": "Widowhood effect", "text": "Widowhood effect\n\nThe widowhood effect is the increase in the probability of a person dying a relatively short time after their long-time spouse has died. The pattern indicates a sharp increase in risk of death for the widower, particularly but not exclusively, in the three months closest thereafter the death of the spouse. This process of losing a spouse and dying shortly after has also been called \"dying of a broken heart\". Becoming a widow is often a very detrimental and life changing time in a spouse's life, that forces them to go through changes that they may not have anticipated to make for a significant amount of time. Responses of grief and bereavement due to the loss of a spouse increases vulnerability to psychological and physical illnesses (Ramadas & Kuttichira, 2013).\n\nPsychologically, losing a long-term spouse can cause symptoms such as depression, anxiety, and feelings of guilt. Physical illness may also occur as the body becomes more vulnerable to emotional and environmental stressors. There are many factors that may be affected when one becomes a widow. A widow (or widower if referring to a male who lost a spouse) tends to have a decline in health regulation. Higher prevalence in mortality rates are noted among bereaved spouses during the first six months of bereavement compared to the last six months of bereavement. The most crucial are said to be the first three months during grief processing. Grieving spouses are more vulnerable during these few months not only health wise but socially and physically. During this early period of bereavement spouses tend to have less interest in their health as well as physical appearance caring less about continuing with medications or adapting healthy behaviors such as eating healthy or exercising. Also, they are likelier to practice risky behaviors and commit suicide. Men on the other hand, are more likely to look for social support such as friends, family, or support groups regarding the matter.\n\nThis effect appears to be far more prevalent in older married couples than in younger married couples. As a result, studies that have been conducted in regards to this phenomenon since the early 2000s have revolved primarily around observations of older widows. Through the many studies that have been conducted over the years, it has been found that the widowhood effect affects the mortality rates of people with varying levels of severity depending on their genders and religions.It is far more frequent in more seasoned, long-term, elder couples than in recently married couples. Since the topic has only been recently studied within this last decade, and due to the prevalence of older couples being affected, most widows in similar studies are typically over the age of 50 (Jegtvig, 2013).\n\nAlthough there have not been many studies, the phenomenon is one of the best documented examples of the effect of social relations on health. Through the numerous studies that have been directed throughout the years, it has been found that the widowhood impact influences the death rates of individuals with changing levels of stringencies relying upon their sexual orientations and religions. There are many theories as to what causes this to occur. There are many factors and theories about the widowhood effect, but in general, a study on a large population sample has suggested rates of death nearly double during the first three months after loss of a spouse, and quickly taper thereafter. (Moon, et al., 2013)\n\nBoth men and women respond differently to the death of their spouse. In general, men tend to be more vulnerable to the widowhood effect. Men are affected more socially than women. Women tend to maintain social relationships and friendships outside of marriage, so when the wife dies first, men tend to lose out on these social relationships and support groups and they tend to isolate themselves. Women maintain their friendships and relationships and lean on them for support after their spouse dies.\n\nThe majority of peer-reviewed articles suggest that it is indeed women that are more frequently at risk of succumbing to the widowhood effect. A collaborative study by Gary R. Lee et al. (2001) surveyed 1686 married and widowed people age 65 or older using data from 1988 National Survey of Families and Households. The study took into account the psychological well-being of each person on a Center for Epidemiologic Studies— Depression scale (CES-D), and found that women were further depressed by the loss of their spouse than men were. Women were also more likely to die soon after the death of their spouse compared to men. The researchers hypothesized that this was because older married women had a higher baseline happiness than their spouses, so they had more happiness to lose. Women in this study were also less likely to be avid church goers, despised chores, and were not as adept at helping their adult children. The lack of social behavior and general activity may contribute to the widowhood effect's influence on female mortality.\n\nExperimenters involved in the study regarding: \"The effects of widowhood on physical and mental health, health behaviors, and health outcomes\", took a deeper look into the overall health differences between recent widowers and those who are currently involved in a marriage (Wilcox, Evenson, Aragaki, Wassertheil-Smoller, Mouton, Loevinger, 2003). Mental health alterations include those of depression and socially extracting yourself were the most common for women who have become widowed in the past year or so (Wilcox, Evenson, Aragaki, Wassertheil-Smoller, Mouton, Loevinger, 2003). Although some of these women were shown to extract them selves from social settings, the study also supported an alternate hypothesis that women experiencing the effects of widowhood are less likely to engage coping mechanisms such as support groups, fellow widowers, and overall strong support systems such as close friends and family (Wilcox, Evenson, Aragaki, Wassertheil-Smoller, Mouton, Loevinger, 2003).\n\nIn a study done by Stahl and Shultz, they found that the death of a woman’s spouse affected her physical activity (2014). Women’s physical activity increases immediately following the death of a spouse, and the authors note that this may perhaps be a coping mechanism to alleviate depressive symptoms (Stahl & Shultz, 2014). In the year following the death of a spouse, women are more likely to experience a fluctuation in physical activity during the transition into widowhood, if they did not die (Stahl & Shultz, 2014). Women in the youngest age group of this study (55– 65 years) were at the highest risk of mortality after the death of their spouse (Brenn & Ytterstad, 2016). Elwert and Christakis found that within the first month of bereavement after widowhood morality is largest and doesn’t decline sharply until the sixth month of widowhood for females, compared to only the third month for males (2006).\n\nNicholas A. Christakis of Harvard and Felix Elwert of the University of Wisconsin analyzed 9 years’ worth of data gathered from almost 373,189 elderly married couples in the U.S. Their findings showed an 18 percent increase in “all-cause mortality” for women whose husbands died first; for men, the risk is 16 percent (Elwert 2008). Although the percentage of females was higher than males, it is not a significant difference to state that women are more affected than men. It is hard to say whether males or females suffer from the widowhood effect more, however it is clear that it is higher in couples that are older.\n\nThe death of a spouse can have a major impact on a person’s mental health. Each individual may respond to their spouse’s death differently. After the death of a spouse many widows begin to take more prescription medications for mental health issues (Avis, Brambilla, Vass, & Mckinlay, 1991). The mental health effects of men and women also differ. Women become more depressed in widowhood compared to men because women may not have as strong of a support group. Married women also report a higher rate of happiness in their marriage and the death of their spouse could drastically alter this happiness. Men may have an easier time adapting to widowhood and be more willing to seek mental help while women tend to be less social and did not like to do chores, go to church, or help their children. Men and women both show greater rates of depression after the death of a spouse but the rates of depression in women tends to be higher than in men (Lee, DeMaris, & Sullivan, 2001).\n\nRecently, there has been a phenomenon discussed and researched dubbed the takotsubo condition, also referred to as the broken heart syndrome (Brenn & Ytterstad, 2016). Takotsubo has been discussed in contexts surrounding great physical and emotional stress, such as circumstance in which someone has been widowed, and emotional stress has long been associated with myocardial infarction. In their research, Brenn and Ytterstad saw an increase in death of women 55–64 years old due to heart disease in the first week of widowhood than married women 55–64 years old (2016). Although takotsubo is not considered to be the direct cause of death at this time, it is an observed phenomenon (Brenn & Ytterstad, 2016.)\n\nElderly widows experience changes in their social lives prior to and following the deaths of their spouses. A study conducted by Rebecca L. Utz et al. (2002) revealed that elderly persons experiencing widowhood spent more time with family and friends than nonwidowed counterparts, based on the lifestyle changes that occur in elderly couples. Although widowed subjects were more likely to socialize with family and friends, they were no more likely to visit church or volunteer than the intact couples. This study also found that healthy spouses were reclusive while their significant other was on their deathbed, but due to a network of family and friends; the surviving spouse entered society being more social than had been prior to the death of their husband or wife. Elderly widows were more or less involved socially depending on the amount of support they had from family and friends. It has been noted that widows who have a close and supportive social network can counteract the effects of widowhood by remaining active in their social group. The loss of a spouse affects almost every domain of life, and as a consequence has a significant impact on wellbeing: psychological, social, physical, practical, and economic (Bennett, 2012). With all of these aspects of a widowed individuals being affected maintaining a sense of normality is important to help avoid depression like symptoms. Social support, as well as creating new lasting relationships through social interaction can help the process of bereavement go smoother for widow effected individuals.\n\nA study conducted by Rosato, O’Reilly and Wright (2015) revealed that there is a significant difference in urban-rural variation in the social environment as well as in health outcomes. There is evidence that social support from family and friends have better health outcomes on mortality rates. Investigations showed that the race of the partner influences widowhood effect; whites in endogamous marriages had greater mortality risks that were not obvious among blacks, which the authors concluded was due to a high level of family support for elderly among black families versuswhite families. Moreover, the study also found differences in urban and rural areas around the world. They found that elderly married couples in the US suffered significant mortality risks compared to those in Ireland where older people living in more rural areas receive more social support from their families, and they live with their children, while in the US elderly people live in care homes. As a result, mortality rates are greater in urban areas and less in rural areas.\n\nIn a study done by Elwert and Christakis, they found that there was no widowhood effect found in endogamously married black men or women (2016). Deducing this finding, they proposed that this might be because blacks are able to extend their marital survival advantage into widowhood. This is likely because blacks are prone to have kin nearer to help take care of them, they may be more self-sufficient than their white counterparts, and there is greater religious participation in blacks that may help them with spiritual comfort (Elwert & Christakis, 2016). Whites were found to have “a large and enduring widowhood effect” because there is no reparation to make up for the survival advantages that marriage gave them, even if they have been widowed for years (Elwert & Christakis, 2008).\n\nThe widowhood effect appears to have a higher impact in rural and intermediate areas compared to urban areas. One factor may be that there are greater distances to primary care services in rural areas, and this increases mortality due to discouraged health checkups (Wright, 2015). It is known that the size of family and social network coincides with physical functioning; the bigger the social group one belongs to the better they can physically function. Residential areas near green areas are associated with an increase in physical activity and lowered mortality (Wright, 2015). Researchers measured peak flow to show the increases or decreases in physical functioning, and the results suggest that married subjects have a higher peak flow compared to those divorced or widowed (Clouston, 2014).\n\nIt was suggested that the widowhood effect was a mere coincidence resulting from the selection of mates with similar health risk. In a recent study by Paul J. Boyle, Feng, Z., & Raab, G. M. (2011), it was concluded that the increased mortality rate of widows is caused by the death of their spouse. Researchers in the study used data from the Scottish Longitudinal Study to compare the ratios of death in widowed males and females. The male and female subjects were categorized into different groups dependent on the manner in which their spouse died. The results provided evidence that suggest a causal relationship between mortality rate and widowhood.\n\nIn April 2016, the American Heart Association published an article regarding phenomenon referred to as \"broken heart syndrome\". This particular syndrome seems to occur when a person experiences an overwhelming amount of stress in their life in a short period of time. The cases mentioned involved both positive events like winning the lottery as well as negative events like experiencing the death of a spouse. Though broken heart syndrome has been misdiagnosed as a heart attack, the differences between the two phenomena are clear. Heart attacks are the result of a blockage of arteries, but broken heart syndrome is the result of a hormone induced enlargement of a portion of the heart. The enlarged region of the heart is less effective in regards to pumping blood, and the normal sized regions of the heart are forced to work harder as a result.\n Widowhood effect is important to be aware of because of the affects that it can have on the body; mentally, physically, emotionally. Although there is no correct coping mechanism when losing a partner, it is important to find preventative ways to fight this from occurring because of the depressive symptoms and state of mental health that are a result from a partner passing away. Being aware of widowhood effect and acknowledging the feelings, such as grieving over that individual can be a way of coping with their current situation. Individuals that result to safe methods with grieving such as counseling or finding different hobbies can decrease their chances of experiencing widowhood effect. \nThere is no universally accepted “proper” method or way to grieve or adjust to life after loss; it varies among individuals, influenced by their cultural and social practices, personality, and the circumstances surrounding the death. Even though grief processing varies, there are ways to reduce the effects of widowhood. Since a spouse is often one’s primary source of social interactions, maintaining and establishing social bonds is a crucial aspect in determining the outcome of a widowed individual’s bereavement (DeSpelder & Strickland, 2015). Social participation may be utilized “as an active coping strategy” as discovered in a study by Rebecca Utz and colleagues (DeSpelder & Strickland, 2015). Additionally, the loss of a spouse means the loss of a partner; the loss of a supportive presence with whom responsibility was shared amongst one another. Studies have shown that for couples who followed traditional gender roles, adjustment to life after their loss was often more difficult than for couples who did not (DeSpelder & Strickland, 2015). Undertaking the responsibilities previously considered the ‘job’ of one’s deceased partner is often hard to handle on top of processing the loss; therefore, the utilization of organizations built to support and help widowed individuals may also prove to be helpful in reducing grief. The Widowed Persons Service (WPS) and their parent organization, the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP), are two organizations which provide aid specifically to widowed individuals (DeSpelder & Strickland, 2015). Effective and safe methods of grief processing are important for all individuals dealing with loss; however, the utilization of organizations may prove to be beneficial for those who need a little more help.\n\nDeSpelder, L. A., & Strickland, A. L. (2015). \"The Last Dance: Encountering Death and Dying\" (10th ed.). New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Education. Retrieved May 18, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "38106941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38106941", "title": "Woozle effect", "text": "Woozle effect\n\nThe Woozle effect, also known as evidence by citation, or a woozle, occurs when frequent citation of previous publications that lack evidence misleads individuals, groups, and the public into thinking or believing there is evidence, and nonfacts become urban myths and factoids.\n\nA Woozle is an imaginary character in the A. A. Milne book \"Winnie-the-Pooh\", published in 1926. In chapter three, \"In which Pooh and Piglet Go Hunting and Nearly Catch a Woozle\", Winnie-the-Pooh and Piglet start following tracks left in snow believing they are the tracks of an imaginary animal called a \"woozle\". The tracks keep multiplying until Christopher Robin explains to them that they have been following their own tracks in circles around a tree.\n\nPrior to the introduction of the specific term \"Woozle effect\", the underlying research phenomenon (and connection to the Woozle) dates back over 60 years. Bevan (1953), writing about scientific methodology and research errors in the field of psychology, uses the term \"scientific woozle hunters\". Wohlwill (1963) refers to a \"hunt for the woozle\" in social science research, and Stevens (1971) cautions readers about woozles in the study of a misquoted letter.\n\nAccording to Richard J. Gelles, the term \"woozle effect\" was coined by Beverly Houghton in 1979. Other researchers have attributed the term to Gelles (1980) and Gelles and Murray A. Straus (1988). Gelles and Straus argue that the woozle effect describes a pattern of bias seen within social sciences and which is identified as leading to multiple errors in individual and public perception, academia, policy making and government. A woozle is also a claim made about research which is not supported by original findings. According to Dutton, a woozle effect, or a woozle, occurs when frequent citation of previous publications that lack evidence misleads individuals, groups and the public into thinking or believing there is evidence, and non-facts become urban myths and factoids. The creation of woozles is often linked to the changing of language from qualified (\"it may\", \"it might\", \"it could\") to absolute form (\"it is\") firming up language and introducing ideas and views not held by an original author or supported by evidence.\n\nDutton sees the woozle effect as an example of confirmation bias and links it to belief perseverance and groupthink. Because in the social sciences empirical evidence may be based on experiential reports rather than objective measurements, there may be a tendency for researchers to align evidence with expectation. According to Dutton it is also possible that the social sciences may be likely to align with contemporary views and ideals of social justice, leading to bias in favor of those ideals. Gambrill (2012) links the woozle effect to the processes that create pseudoscience. Gambrill and Reiman (2011) also link it with more deliberate propaganda techniques; they also identify introductory phrases like \"Every one knows ...\", \"It is clear that ...\", \"It is obvious that ...\", \"It is generally agreed that ...\" as alarm bells that what follows might be a Woozle line of reasoning.\n\nIn 1979, Houghton illustrated the Woozle effect, showing how work by Gelles (1974) based on a small sample and published in \"The Violent Home\" by Straus, who had written the foreword for Gelles's book, was presented as if it applied to a large sample. Both of these were then cited by Langley & Levy in their 1977 book, \"Wife Beating: The Silent Crisis\". In the 1998 book \"Intimate Violence\", Gelles and Straus use the Winnie-the-Pooh woozle to illustrate how poor practice in research and self-referential research causes older research to be taken as fresh evidence causing error and bias.\n\nIn a study conducted by the Vera Institute of Justice, Weiner and Hala (2008) reported some of the research-related difficulties associated with measuring human trafficking. They describe and map the unfolding of the Woozle effect in connection with prevalence estimates of human trafficking. Searching the relevant literature between 1990 and 2006, Weiner and Hala found 114 prevalence estimates in 45 publications. Only one of the publications cited original research, and several prevalence estimates appeared unsourced. The authors concluded that the sources they reviewed lacked citations, adequate operational definition, and discussion of methodology. Stransky and Finkelhor (2008/2012) criticize the general methodology involved in human trafficking research. They cite the Woozle effect (p. 3) and post a prominent warning on the first page of their report cautioning against citing any specific estimates they present, as the close inspection of the figures \"...reveals that none are based on a strong scientific foundation. (p. 1)\"\n\nGambrill and Reiman (2011) analyze scientific papers and mass-market communications about social anxiety and conclude that many of them engage in disease mongering by presenting the disease model of social anxiety as an incontrovertible fact by resorting to unchallenged repetition techniques and by leaving out of the discourse any competing theories. Gambrill and Reiman further note that even after educating their subjects about the tell-tale signs of such techniques, many of them still failed to pick up the signs in a practical test.\nJames J. Kimble gives as an example the 1994–2015 historiography of the 1943 American \"We Can Do It!\" wartime poster. After Michigan resident Geraldine Hoff Doyle said in 1994 that she was the real-life model for the poster, many sources repeated her assertion without checking the two foundational assumptions: that Doyle was the young factory worker pictured in a 1942 wartime photograph, and that the photograph had inspired commercial artist J. Howard Miller to create the poster. Though some media representations described the connection as unconfirmed, many more enthusiastically endorsed it. The weight of these multiple endorsements gave Doyle's story a \"convincing\" authority, despite the lack of authority in establishing the connection. In 2015 Kimble found the original photographic print of the factory worker, its caption identifying the young woman as Naomi Parker, working in California in March 1942, when Doyle was still in high school.\n\n"}
