{"id": "39062133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39062133", "title": "2013 Bengali blog blackout", "text": "2013 Bengali blog blackout\n\nOn 4 April 2013 (0700 GMT) all Bengali blogs were blacked out for an indefinite time to protest the arrest of four bloggers in Bangladesh (Moshiur Rahman Biplob, Rasel Parvez, Subrata Adhikari Shuvo and Asif Mohiuddin). The blackout was to back a demand for the unconditional release of the arrested bloggers. A fundamentalist group named \"Hefajat-e-Islam Bangladesh\" started a campaign to hang freethinking bloggers, and demanding tough blasphemy laws. In response, the government started monitoring Bengali blog sites and sending letters to their authorities to terminate the alleged \"anti-religious\" blogs and provide information about the alleged \"anti-religious\" bloggers. Individual bloggers showed their solidarity with this blackout by changing their profile photos on Facebook and by tweeting with the #MuzzleMeNot hashtag. Different international organizations expressed deep concern about taking free-thinking bloggers into custody. After 92 hours of blackout, blogs returned online by publishing a press release on their central Facebook page.\n\nFrom the beginning of the Shahbag protest, bloggers came out on the streets to demand capital punishment of Abdul Quader Molla, a war criminal of the Bangladesh liberation war and a leader of Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami. During the protests, a controversial author, pro-Shahbag blogger and online activist Sunnyur Rahman, popularly known as 'Nastik Nobi' (Atheist Prophet) in the blog community, was stabbed on 7 March 2013. Another pro-Shahbag blogger Ahmed Rajib Haider who was critical of Jamaat-e-Islami, was killed by a few Jamaat activists. Afterwards, a Jamaat backed Islamic fundamentalist organisation started a violent protest demanding the death penalty for all allegedly \"anti-Islamic\" bloggers, and they termed all participants of the Shahbag movement as atheist. The spokesperson of the Shahbag movement \"Imran H. Sharkar\" said, \"Hifazat-e-Islam is desperate to thwart the war crimes trial and the process of banning Jamaat-e-Islami\".\n\nAfterwards, the government of Bangladesh started monitoring the blogosphere and sent letters to the Bengali blog authorities to terminate the alleged \"anti-religious\" blogs and to provide information about the alleged \"anti-religious\" bloggers.\n\nOn the night of 1 April 2013, three bloggers were arrested by the detective branch (DB) police. Blogger Rasel Pervez, a prominent physicist and blogger and Mashiur Rahman Biplob were arrested on 1 April 2013 from their house. Subrata Adhikari Shuvo, who is a masters student of the Bengali department at the University of Dhaka, was also arrested on the same day from his university dormitory. \nAnother blogger Asif Mohiuddin was called to the police station on 3 April 2013, and when he went there, he was arrested. Earlier, the Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission forced the Bengali blog \"somewhereinblog.net\" to remove all writings of Asif Mohiuddin. The move was criticized by Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, Center for Inquiry, Reporters Without Borders, Committee to Protect Journalists, and several other bodies.\n\n"}
{"id": "58809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58809", "title": "Adultery", "text": "Adultery\n\nAdultery (from Latin \"adulterium\") is extramarital sex that is considered objectionable on social, religious, moral, or legal grounds. Although what sexual activities constitute adultery varies, as well as the social, religious, and legal consequences, the concept exists in many cultures and is similar in Christianity, Islam, and Judaism. A single act of sexual intercourse is generally sufficient to constitute adultery, and a more long-term sexual relationship is sometimes referred to as an affair.\n\nHistorically, many cultures have considered adultery to be a very serious crime. Adultery often incurred severe punishment, usually for the woman and sometimes for the man, with penalties including capital punishment, mutilation, or torture. Such punishments have gradually fallen into disfavor, especially in Western countries from the 19th century. In most Western countries, adultery itself is no longer a criminal offense, but may still have legal consequences, particularly in divorce cases. For example, in fault-based family law jurisdictions, adultery almost always constitutes a ground for divorce and may be a factor in property settlement, the custody of children, the denial of alimony, etc. Adultery is not a ground for divorce in jurisdictions which have adopted a no-fault divorce model. In some societies and among certain religious adherents, adultery may affect the social status of those involved, and may result in social ostracism.\n\nIn countries where adultery is a criminal offense, punishments range from fines to caning and even capital punishment. Since the 20th century, criminal laws against adultery have become controversial, with international organizations calling for their abolition, especially in the light of several high-profile stoning cases that have occurred in some countries. The head of the United Nations expert body charged with identifying ways to eliminate laws that discriminate against women or are discriminatory to them in terms of implementation or impact, Kamala Chandrakirana, has stated that: \"Adultery must not be classified as a criminal offence at all\". A joint statement by the United Nations Working Group on discrimination against women in law and in practice states that: \"Adultery as a criminal offence violates women’s human rights\".\n\nIn Muslim countries that follow Sharia law for criminal justice, the punishment for adultery may be stoning. There are fifteen countries in which stoning is authorized as lawful punishment, though in recent times it has been legally carried out only in Iran and Somalia. Most countries that criminalize adultery are those where the dominant religion is Islam, and several Sub-Saharan African Christian-majority countries, but there are some notable exceptions to this rule, namely Philippines, Taiwan, and several U.S. states. In some jurisdictions, having sexual relations with the king's wife or the wife of his eldest son constitutes treason. By analogy, in cultures which value and normally practice exclusive interpersonal relationships, sexual relations with a person outside the relationship may also be described as infidelity or cheating, and is subject to sanction.\n\nThe term \"adultery\" refers to sexual acts between a married person and someone who is not that person's spouse. It may arise in criminal law or in family law. For instance, in the United Kingdom, adultery is not a criminal offense, but is a ground for divorce, with the legal definition of adultery being \"physical contact with an alien and unlawful organ\". Extramarital sexual acts not fitting this definition are not \"adultery\" though they may constitute \"unreasonable behavior\", also a ground of divorce.\n\nThe application of the term to the act appears to arise from the idea that \"criminal intercourse with a married woman ... tended to adulterate the issue [children] of an innocent husband ... and to expose him to support and provide for another man's [children]\". Thus, the \"purity\" of the children of a marriage is corrupted, and the inheritance is altered.\n\nSome adultery laws differentiate based on the sex of the participants, and as a result such laws are often seen as discriminatory, and in some jurisdictions they have been struck down by courts, usually on the basis that they discriminated against women.\n\nThe term \"adultery\", rather than \"extramarital sex\", implies a moral condemnation of the act; as such it is usually not a neutral term because it carries an implied judgment that the act is wrong.\n\nAdultery refers to sexual relations which are not officially legitimized; for example it does not refer to having sexual intercourse with multiple partners in the case of polygamy (when a man is married to more than one wife at a time, called polygyny; or when a woman is married to more than one husband at a time, called polyandry).\n\nIn the traditional English common law, adultery was a felony. Although the legal definition of \"adultery\" differs in nearly every legal system, the common theme is sexual relations outside of marriage, in one form or another.\n\nTraditionally, many cultures, particularly Latin American ones, had strong double standards regarding male and female adultery, with the latter being seen as a much more serious violation.\n\nAdultery involving a married woman and a man other than her husband was considered a very serious crime. In 1707, English Lord Chief Justice John Holt stated that a man having sexual relations with another man's wife was \"the highest invasion of property\" and claimed, in regard to the aggrieved husband, that \"a man cannot receive a higher provocation\" (in a case of murder or manslaughter).\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Diderot & d'Alembert\", Vol. 1 (1751), also equated adultery to theft writing that, \"adultery is, after homicide, the most punishable of all crimes, because it is the most cruel of all thefts, and an outrage capable of inciting murders and the most deplorable excesses.\"\n\nLegal definitions of adultery vary. For example, New York defines an adulterer as a person who \"engages in sexual intercourse with another person at a time when he has a living spouse, or the other person has a living spouse.\"\nNorth Carolina defines adultery as occurring when any man and woman \"lewdly and lasciviously associate, bed, and cohabit together.\"\nMinnesota law provides: \"when a married woman has sexual intercourse with a man other than her husband, whether married or not, both are guilty of adultery.\" In the 2003 New Hampshire Supreme Court case Blanchflower v. Blanchflower, it was held that female same-sex sexual relations did not constitute sexual intercourse, based on a 1961 definition from \"Webster's Third New International Dictionary\"; and thereby an accused wife in a divorce case was found not guilty of adultery. In 2001, Virginia prosecuted an attorney, John R. Bushey, for adultery, a case that ended in a guilty plea and a $125 fine. Adultery is against the governing law of the U.S. military.\n\nIn common-law countries, adultery was also known as \"criminal conversation.\" This became the name of the civil tort arising from adultery, being based upon compensation for the other spouse's injury. Criminal conversation was usually referred to by lawyers as \"crim. con.\", and was abolished in England in 1857, and the Republic of Ireland in 1976. Another tort, alienation of affection, arises when one spouse deserts the other for a third person. This act was also known as desertion, which was often a crime as well. A small number of jurisdictions still allow suits for criminal conversation and/or alienation of affection. In the United States, six states still maintain this tort.\n\nA marriage in which both spouses agree ahead of time to accept sexual relations by either partner with others is sometimes referred to as an open marriage or the swinging lifestyle. Polyamory, meaning the practice, desire, or acceptance of intimate relationships that are not exclusive with respect to other sexual or intimate relationships, with knowledge and consent of everyone involved, sometimes involves such marriages. Swinging and open marriages are both a form of non-monogamy, and the spouses would not view the sexual relations as objectionable. However, irrespective of the stated views of the partners, extra-marital relations could still be considered a crime in some legal jurisdictions which criminalize adultery.\n\nIn Canada, though the written definition in the \"Divorce Act\" refers to extramarital relations with someone of the opposite sex, a British Columbia judge used the \"Civil Marriage Act\" in a 2005 case to grant a woman a divorce from her husband who had cheated on her with another man, which the judge felt was equal reasoning to dissolve the union.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, case law restricts the definition of adultery to penetrative sexual intercourse between a man and a woman, no matter the gender of the spouses in the marriage, although infidelity with a person of the same gender can be grounds for a divorce as unreasonable behavior; this situation was discussed at length during debates on the Marriage (Same-Sex Couples) Bill.\n\nIn India, adultery is the sexual intercourse of a man with a married woman without the consent of her husband when such sexual intercourse does not amount to rape. It was a non-cognizable, non-bailable criminal offence, until the relevant law was overturned by the Supreme Court of India on 27 September 2018.\n\nPunishments for adultery vary from place to place. Where adultery is illegal, the punishment varies from fines (for example in the US state of Rhode Island) to caning in parts of Asia. There are fifteen countries in which stoning is authorized as lawful punishment, although in recent times it has been legally enforced only in Iran and Somalia. Most stoning cases are the result of mob violence, and while technically illegal, no action is usually taken against perpetrators. Sometimes such stonings are ordered by informal village leaders who have \"de facto\" power in the community. Adultery may have consequences under civil law even in countries where it is not outlawed by the criminal law. For instance it may constitute \"fault\" in countries where the divorce law is fault based or it may be a ground for tort.\n\nIn some societies the law punishes the \"intruder\", rather than the adulterous spouse. For instance art 266 of the Penal Code of South Sudan reads: \"Whoever, has consensual sexual intercourse with a man or woman who is and whom he or she has reason to believe to be the spouse of another person, commits the offence of adultery [...]\". Similarly, under the adultery law in India (Section 497 of the Indian Penal Code, until overturned by the Supreme Court in 2018) it was a criminal offense for a man to have consensual sexual intercourse with a married woman, without the consent of her husband (no party was criminally punished in case of adultery between a married man and an unmarried woman).\n\nHistorically, paternity of children born out of adultery has been seen as a major issue. Modern advances such as reliable contraception and paternity testing have changed the situation (in Western countries). Most countries nevertheless have a legal presumption that a woman's husband is the father of her children who were born during that marriage. Although this is often merely a rebuttable presumption, many jurisdictions have laws which restrict the possibility of legal rebuttal (for instance by creating a legal time limit during which paternity may be challengedsuch as a certain number of years from the birth of the child). Establishing correct paternity may have major legal implications, for instance in regard to inheritance.\n\nChildren born out of adultery suffered, until recently, adverse legal and social consequences. In France, for instance, a law that stated that the inheritance rights of a child born under such circumstances were, on the part of the married parent, half of what they would have been under ordinary circumstances, remained in force until 2001, when France was forced to change it by a ruling of the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) (and in 2013, the ECtHR also ruled that the new 2001 regulations must be also applied to children born \"before\" 2001).\n\nThere has been, in recent years, a trend of legally favoring the right to a relation between the child and its biological father, rather than preserving the appearances of the 'social' family. In 2010, the ECtHR ruled in favor of a German man who had fathered twins with a married woman, granting him right of contact with the twins, despite the fact that the mother and her husband had forbidden him from seeing the children.\n\nDurex's Global Sex Survey found that worldwide 22% of people surveyed admitted to have had extramarital sex.\n\nIn the United States Alfred Kinsey found in his studies that 50% of males and 26% of females had extramarital sex at least once during their lifetime. Depending on studies, it was estimated that 26–50% of men and 21–38% of women, or 22.7% of men and 11.6% of women, had extramarital sex. Other authors say that between 20% and 25% of Americans had sex with someone other than their spouse.\n\nThree 1990s studies in the United States, using nationally representative samples, have found that about 10–15% of women and 20–25% of men admitted to having engaged in extramarital sex.\n\nThe Standard Cross-Cultural Sample described the occurrence of extramarital sex by gender in over 50 pre-industrial cultures. The occurrence of extramarital sex by men is described as \"universal\" in 6 cultures, \"moderate\" in 29 cultures, \"occasional\" in 6 cultures, and \"uncommon\" in 10 cultures. The occurrence of extramarital sex by women is described as \"universal\" in 6 cultures, \"moderate\" in 23 cultures, \"occasional\" in 9 cultures, and \"uncommon\" in 15 cultures.\n\nIn the Greco-Roman world, there were stringent laws against adultery, but these applied to sexual intercourse with a married woman. In the early Roman Law, the \"jus tori\" belonged to the husband. It was therefore not a crime against the wife for a husband to have sex with a slave or an unmarried woman.\n\nThe Roman husband often took advantage of his legal immunity. Thus we are told by the historian Spartianus that Verus, the imperial colleague of Marcus Aurelius, did not hesitate to declare to his reproaching wife: \"Uxor enim dignitatis nomen est, non voluptatis.\" (\"'Wife' connotes rank, not sexual pleasure\", or more literally \"Wife is the name of dignity, not bliss\") (Verus, V).\n\nLater in Roman history, as William E.H. Lecky has shown, the idea that the husband owed a fidelity similar to that demanded of the wife must have gained ground, at least in theory. Lecky gathers from the legal maxim of Ulpian: \"It seems most unfair for a man to require from a wife the chastity he does not himself practice\".\n\nAccording to Plutarch, the lending of wives practiced among some people was also encouraged by Lycurgus, though from a motive other than that which actuated the practice (Plutarch, Lycurgus, XXIX). The recognized license of the Greek husband may be seen in the following passage of the pseudo-Demosthenic \"Oration Against Neaera\":\n\nThe Roman Lex Julia, \"Lex Iulia de Adulteriis Coercendis\" (17 BC), punished adultery with banishment. The two guilty parties were sent to different islands (\"dummodo in \"diversas\" insulas relegentur\"), and part of their property was confiscated. Fathers were permitted to kill daughters and their partners in adultery. Husbands could kill the partners under certain circumstances and were required to divorce adulterous wives.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible prohibits adultery in the Seventh Commandment, \"Thou shalt not commit adultery.\" (). prescribes capital punishment for adultery between a man and married woman:\nAnd the man that committeth adultery with another man's wife, even he that committeth adultery with his neighbour's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.\n\nSignificantly, the penalty does not extend to sex by an unmarried woman and irrespective of the marital status of the man.\n\nFurthermore, Deuteronomic code prescribes stoning not only for female extramarital sex, but also for female premarital sex in the case where the woman lies about her virginity:\nIf any man take a wife, and go in unto her, … and say, / I took this woman, and when I came to her, I found her not a maid. / … But if this thing be true, and the tokens of virginity be not found for the damsel: / Then they shall bring out the damsel to the door of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her with stones that she die. ().\nIt also prescribes the same for engaged women who lie with another man, under the premise that if she allows the action without protesting, this indicates willingness.\nIf a damsel that is a virgin be betrothed unto an husband, and a man find her in the city, and lie with her; / Then ye shall bring them both out unto the gate of that city, and ye shall stone them with stones that they die; the damsel, because she cried not, being in the city. ().\nAdultery is considered by Christians to be immoral and a sin, based primarily on passages like and . Although does say that \"and that is what some of you were. But you were washed\", it still acknowledges adultery to be immoral and a sin.\n\nSome churches have interpreted adultery to include all sexual relationships outside of marriage, regardless of the marital status of the participants.\n\nCatholicism ties fornication with breaking the sixth commandment in its Catechism.\n\nUntil a few decades ago, adultery was a criminal offense in many countries where the dominant religion is Christianity, especially in Roman Catholic countries (see also the section on Europe). Adultery was decriminalized in Argentina in 1995, and in Brazil in 2005; but in some predominantly Catholic countries, such as the Philippines, it remains illegal. The Book of Mormon also prohibits adultery. For instance, Abinadi cites the Ten Commandments when he accuses King Noah's priests of sexual immorality. When Jesus Christ visits the Americas he reinforces the law and teaches them the higher law (also found in the New Testament):\n\nBook of Mormon prophets and civil leaders often list adultery as an illegal activity along with murder, robbing, and stealing.\n\nAdultery in Judaism is prohibited by the Seventh Commandment, \"Thou shalt not commit adultery.\". Adultery in traditional Judaism applies to both parties, but depends on the marital status of the woman (Lev. 20:10). Though the Torah prescribes the death penalty for adultery, the legal procedural requirements were very exacting and required the testimony of two eyewitnesses of good character for conviction. The defendant also must have been warned immediately before performing the act. A death sentence could be issued only during the period when the Holy Temple stood, and only so long as the Supreme Torah Court convened in its chamber within the Temple complex. Today, therefore, no death penalty applies.\n\nThe death penalty for adultery was strangulation, except in the case of a woman who was the daughter of a Kohain (Aaronic priestly caste), which was specifically mentioned by Scripture by the death penalty of burning (pouring molten lead down the throat). Ipso facto, there never was mentioned in Pharisaic or Rabbinic Judaism sources a punishment of stoning for adulterers as mentioned in John 8.\n\nAt the civil level, however, Jewish law (halakha) forbids a man to continue living with an adulterous wife, and he is obliged to divorce her. Also, an adulteress is not permitted to marry the adulterer, but, to avoid any doubt as to her status as being free to marry another or that of her children, many authorities say he must give her a divorce as if they were married.\n\nAccording to Judaism, the Seven laws of Noah apply to all of humankind; these laws prohibit adultery with another man's wife.\n\nThe Ten Commandments were meant exclusively for Jewish males. Michael Coogan writes that according to the text the wives are the property of their man, marriage meaning transfer of property (from father to husband), and women are less valuable than real estate, being mentioned after real estate. Adultery is violating the property right of a man. Coogan's book was criticized by Phyllis Trible, who argues that he failed to note that patriarchy was not decreed, but only described by God, patriarchy being specific to people after the fall. She states that Paul the Apostle made the same mistake as Coogan.\n\nOriginally this commandment forbade male Israelites from having sexual intercourse with the wife of another Israelite; the prohibition did not extend to their own slaves. Sexual intercourse between an Israelite man, married or not, and a woman who was neither married or betrothed was not considered adultery. This concept of adultery stems from the economic aspect of Israelite marriage whereby the husband has an exclusive right to his wife, whereas the wife, as the husband's possession, did not have an exclusive right to her husband.\n\nDavid's sexual intercourse with Bathsheba, the wife of Uriah, did not count as adultery. According Jennifer Wright Knust, this was because Uriah was no Jew, and only Jewish men were protected by the legal code from Sinai. However, according to the Babylonian Talmud, Uriah was indeed Jewish and wrote a provisional bill of divorce prior to going out to war, specifying that if he fell in battle, the divorce would take effect from the time the writ was issued.\n\nZina (زنا) is an Arabic term for illegal intercourse, premarital or extramarital. Various conditions and punishments have been attributed to adultery.\n\nUnder Muslim law, adultery in general is sexual intercourse by a person (whether man or woman) with someone to whom they are not married. Adultery is a violation of the marital contract and one of the major sins condemned by Allah in the Qur'an:\n\nQur'anic verses prohibiting adultery include:\n\nPunishments are reserved to the legal authorities and false accusations are to be punished severely. It has been said that these legal procedural requirements were instituted to protect women from slander and false accusations: i.e. four witnesses of good character are required for conviction, who were present at that time and saw the deed taking place; and if they saw it they were not of good moral character, as they were looking at naked adults; thus no one can be convicted of adultery unless both of the accused also agree and give their confession under oath four times.\n\nAccording to Muhammad, an unmarried person who commits adultery or fornication is punished by flogging 100 times; a married person will then be stoned to death. A survey conducted by the Pew Research Center found support for stoning as a punishment for adultery mostly in Arab countries; it was supported in Egypt (82% of respondents in favor of the punishment) and Jordan (70% in favor), as well as Pakistan (82% favor), whereas in Nigeria (56% in favor) and in Indonesia (42% in favor) opinion is more divided, perhaps due to diverging traditions and differing interpretations of Sharia.\n\nThe Hindu Sanskrit texts present a range of views on adultery, offering widely differing positions. The hymn 4.5.5 of the \"Rigveda\" calls adultery as \"pāpa\" (evil, sin). Other Vedic texts, states Rick Talbott, state adultery to be a sin, just like murder, incest, anger, evil thoughts and trickery. According to the Indologist Wendy Doniger, the Vedic texts, including the \"Rigveda\", the \"Atharvaveda\" and the Upanishads, also acknowledge the existence of male lovers and female lovers as a basic fact of human life, followed by the recommendation that one should avoid such extra marital sex during certain ritual occasions (yajna). A number of simile in the Rigveda, states Doniger, a woman's emotional eagerness to meet her lover is described, and one hymn prays to the gods that they protect the embryo of a pregnant wife as she sleeps with her husband and other lovers.\n\nAdultery and similar offenses are discussed under one of the eighteen \"vivādapadas\" (titles of laws) in the \"Dharma\" literature of Hinduism. Adultery is termed as \"Strisangrahana\" in \"dharmasastra\" texts. These texts generally condemn adultery, with some exceptions involving consensual sex and \"niyoga\" (levirate conception) in order to produce an heir. According to \"Apastamba Dharmasutra\", the earliest dated Hindu law text, cross-varna adultery is a punishable crime, where the adulterous man receives a far more severe punishment than the adulterous \"arya\" woman. In \"Gautama Dharmasutra\", the adulterous \"arya\" woman is liable to harsh punishment for the cross-class adultery. According to Ludo Rocher, while \"Gautama Dharmasutra\" reserves the punishment in cases of cross-class adultery, it seems to have been generalized by \"Vishnu Dharmasastra\" and \"Manusmiriti\". The recommended punishments in the text also vary between these texts. \n\nMandagadde Rama Jois translates verse 4.134 of \"Manusmriti\" as declaring adultery to be a heinous offense. The \"Manusmriti\" does not include adultery as a \"grievous sin\", but includes it as a \"secondary sin\" that leads to a loss of caste, states the Indologist and Sanskrit scholar Patrick Olivelle. In the \"Manusmriti\", the intent and mutual consent are a part that determine the recommended punishment. Rape is not considered as adultery for the woman, while the rapist is punished severely. Lesser punishment is recommended for consensual adulterous sex. Death penalty is mentioned by Manu, as well as \"penance\" for the sin of adultery. even in cases of repeated adultery wth a man of the same caste. According to Doniger, Manu in his verses 8.362-363 is stating that sexual relations with the wife of traveling performer is not a sin, and exempts such sexual liaisons. The \"Manusmriti\", states Doniger, offers two views on adultery. It recommends a new married couple to remain sexually faithful to each other for life. It also accepts that adulterous relationships happen, children are born from such relationships and then proceeds to reason that the child belongs to the legal husband of the pregnant woman, and not to the biological father.\n\nOther \"dharmasastra\" texts describe adultery as a punishable crime but offer differing details. According to \"Naradasmriti (12.61-62)\", it is an adulterous act if a man has sexual intercourse with the woman who is protected by another man. The term adultery in \"Naradasmriti\" is not confined to the relationship of a married man with another man's wife. It includes sex with any woman who is protected, including wives, daughters, other relatives, and servants. Adultery is not a punishable offence for a man if \"the woman's husband has abandoned her because she is wicked, or he is eunuch, or of a man who does not care, provided the wife initiates it of her own volition\", states Indologist Richard Lariviere. According to the Hindu law scholar Robert Lingat, Brihaspati-smriti mention among other things adulterous local customs in ancient India and then states, \"for such practices these (people) incur neither penance nor secular punishment\". Kautilya's \"Arthashastra\" includes an exemption that in case the husband forgives his adulterous wife, the woman and her lover should be set free. If the offended husband does not forgive, the \"Arthashastra\" recommends the adulterous woman's nose and ears be cut off, while her lover be executed.\n\nThe \"Kamasutra\", states Ludo Rocher, discusses adultery and Vatsyayana devotes \"not less than fifteen sutras (1.5.6–20) to enumerating the reasons (\"karana\") for which a man is allowed to seduce a married woman\". According to Wendy Doniger, the \"Kamasutra\" teaches adulterous sexual liaison as a means for a man to predispose the involved woman in assisting him, working against his enemies and facilitating his successes. It also explains the many signs and reasons a woman wants to enter into an adulterous relationship and when she does not want to commit adultery. The \"Kamasutra\" teaches strategies to engage in adulterous relationships, but concludes its chapter on sexual liaison stating that one should not commit adultery because adultery pleases only one of two sides in a marriage, hurts the other, it goes against both \"dharma\" and \"artha\".\n\nAccording to Werner Menski, the Sanskrit texts take a \"widely different positions on adultery\", with some considering it a minor offense that can be addressed with penance, but others treat it as a severe offense that depending on the caste deserves the death penalty for the man or the woman. According to Ramanathan and Weerakoon, in Hinduism, the sexual matters are left to the judgment of those involved and not a matter to be imposed through law. \n\nAccording to Carl Olsen, the classical Hindu society considered adultery as a sexual transgression but treated it with a degree of tolerance. It is described as a minor transgression in \"Naradasmriti\" and other texts, one that a sincere penance could atone. Penance is also recommended to a married person who does not actually commit adultery, but carries adulterous thoughts for someone else or is thinking of committing adultery.\n\nOther Hindu texts present a more complex model of behavior and mythology where gods commit adultery for various reasons. For example, states Wendy Doniger, Krishna commits adultery and the \"Bhagavata Purana\" justifies it as something to be expected when Vishnu took a human form, just like sages become uncontrolled. According to Tracy Coleman, Radha and other gopis are indeed lovers of Krishna, but this is \"prema\" or \"selfless, true love\" and not carnal craving. In Hindu texts, this relationship between gopis and Krishna involves secret nightly rendezvous. Some texts state it to be divine adultery, others as a symbolism of spiritual dedication and religious value. The example of Krishna's adulterous behavior has been used by Sahajiyas Hindus of Bengal to justify their own behavior that is contrary to the mainstream Hindu norm, according to Doniger. Other Hindu texts state that Krishna's adultery is not a license for other men to do the same, in the same way that men should not drink poison just because Rudra-Shiva drank poison during the Samudra Manthan. A similar teaching is found in Mahayana Buddhism, states Doniger.\n\nBuddhist texts such as Digha Nikāya describe adultery as a form of sexual wrongdoing that is one link in a chain of immorality and misery. According to Wendy Doniger, this view of adultery as evil is postulated in early Buddhist texts as having originated from greed in a previous life. This idea combines Hindu and Buddhist thoughts then prevalent. Sentient beings without body, state the canonical texts, are reborn on earth due to their greed and craving, some people become beautiful and some ugly, some become men and some women. The ugly envy the beautiful and this triggers the ugly to commit adultery with the wives of the beautiful. Like in Hindu mythology, states Doniger, Buddhist texts explain adultery as a result from sexual craving; it initiates a degenerative process.\n\nBuddhism considers celibacy as the monastic ideal. For he who feels that he cannot live in celibacy, it recommends that he never commit adultery with another's wife. Engaging in sex outside of marriage, with the wife of another man, with a girl who is engaged to be married, or a girl protected by her relatives (father or brother), or extramarital sex with prostitutes, ultimately causes suffering to other human beings and oneself. It should be avoided, state the Buddhist canonical texts.\n\nBuddhist Pali texts narrate legends where the Buddha explains the karmic consequences of adultery. For example, states Robert Goldman, one such story is of Thera Soreyya. Buddha states in the Soreyya story that \"men who commit adultery suffer hell for hundreds of thousands of years after rebirth, then are reborn a hundred successive times as women on earth, must earn merit by \"utter devotion to their husbands\" in these lives, before they can be reborn again as men to pursue a monastic life and liberation from \"samsara\".\n\nThere are some differences between the Buddhist texts and the Hindu texts on the identification and consequences of adultery. According to José Ignacio Cabezón, for example, the Hindu text \"Naradasmriti\" considers consensual extra-marital sex between a man and a woman in certain circumstances (such as if the husband has abandoned the woman) as not a punishable crime, but the Buddhist texts \"nowhere exculpate\" any adulterous relationship. The term adultery in \"Naradasmriti\" is broader in scope than the one in Buddhist sources. In the text, various acts such as secret meetings, exchange of messages and gifts, \"inappropriate touching\" and a false accusation of adultery, are deemed adulterous, while Buddhist texts do not recognize these acts under adultery. Later texts such as the \"Dhammapada\", \"Pancasiksanusamsa Sutra\" and a few Mahayana sutras state that \"heedless man who runs after other men's wife\" acquire demerit, blame, discomfort and are reborn in hell. Other Buddhist texts make no mention of legal punishments for adultery.\n\nIn some Native American cultures, severe penalties could be imposed on an adulterous wife by her husband. In many instances she was made to endure a bodily mutilation which would, in the mind of the aggrieved husband, prevent her from ever being a temptation to other men again. Among the Aztecs, wives caught in adultery were occasionally impaled, although the more usual punishment was to be stoned to death.\n\nThe Code of Hammurabi, a well-preserved Babylonian law code of ancient Mesopotamia, dating back to about 1772 BC, provided drowning as punishment for adultery.\n\nAmputation of the noserhinotomywas a punishment for adultery among many civilizations, including ancient India, ancient Egypt, among Greeks and Romans, and in Byzantium and among the Arabs.\n\nIn the tenth century, the Arab explorer Ibn Fadlan noted that adultery was unknown among the pagan Oghuz Turks. Ibn Fadlan writes that \"adultery is unknown among them; but whomsoever they find by his conduct that he is an adulterer, they tear him in two. This comes about so: they bring together the branches of two trees, tie him to the branches and then let both trees go, so that he is torn in two.\"\n\nIn medieval Europe, early Jewish law mandated stoning for an adulterous wife and her partner.\n\nIn England and its successor states, it has been high treason to engage in adultery with the King's wife, his eldest son's wife and his eldest unmarried daughter. The jurist Sir William Blackstone writes that \"the plain intention of this law is to guard the Blood Royal from any suspicion of bastardy, whereby the succession to the Crown might be rendered dubious.\" Adultery was a serious issue when it came to succession to the crown. Philip IV of France had all three of his daughters-in-law imprisoned, two (Margaret of Burgundy and Blanche of Burgundy) on the grounds of adultery and the third (Joan of Burgundy) for being aware of their adulterous behaviour. The two brothers accused of being lovers of the king's daughters-in-law were executed immediately after being arrested. The wife of Philip IV's eldest son bore a daughter, the future Joan II of Navarre, whose paternity and succession rights were disputed all her life.\n\nThe christianization of Europe came to mean that, in theory, and unlike with the Romans, there was supposed to be a single sexual standard, where adultery was a sin and against the teachings of the church, regardless of the sex of those involved. In practice, however, the church seemed to have accepted the traditional double standard which punished the adultery of the wife more harshly than that of the husband. Among Germanic tribes, each tribe had its own laws for adultery, and many of them allowed the husband to \"take the law in his hands\" and commit acts of violence against a wife caught committing adultery. In the Middle Ages, adultery in Vienna was punishable by death through impalement. Austria was one of the last Western countries to decriminalize adultery, in 1997.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Diderot & d'Alembert\", Vol. 1 (1751) noted the legal double standard from that period, it wrote:\n\"Furthermore, although the husband who violates conjugal trust is guilty as well as the woman, it is not permitted for her to accuse him, nor to pursue him because of this crime\".\n\nAdultery is a crime in Taiwan and the Philippines. It was a crime in Japan until 1947 and until 2015, in South Korea. In 2015, South Korea's Constitutional Court overturned the country's law against adultery. Previously, adultery was criminalized in 1953, and violators were subject to 2 years in prison, with the aim of protecting women from divorce. The law was overturned because the court found that adultery is a private matter which the state should not intervene in. Adultery is not a crime in People's Republic of China, but is a ground for divorce.\n\nIn Pakistan, adultery is a crime under the Hudood Ordinance, promulgated in 1979. The Ordinance sets a maximum penalty of death. The Ordinance has been particularly controversial because it requires a woman making an accusation of rape to provide extremely strong evidence to avoid being charged with adultery herself. A conviction for rape is only possible with evidence from no fewer than four witnesses. In recent years high-profile rape cases in Pakistan have given the Ordinance more exposure than similar laws in other countries. Similar laws exist in some other Muslim countries, such as Saudi Arabia and Brunei.\n\nUntil 2018, in Indian law, adultery was defined as sex between a man and a woman without the consent of the woman's husband. The man was prosecutable and could be sentenced for up to five years (even if he himself was unmarried) whereas the married woman cannot be jailed. Men have called the law gender discrimination in that women cannot be prosecuted for adultery and the National Commission of Women has criticized the British era law of being anti-feminist as it treats women as the property of their husbands and has consequently recommended deletion of the law or reducing it to a civil offense. Extramarital sex without the consent of one's partner can be a valid grounds for monetary penalty on government employees, as ruled by the Central Administrative Tribunal. On 27 September 2018, Supreme court of India handed down a judgement stating adultery is not a crime in the case.\n\nIn Southwest Asia, adultery has attracted severe sanctions, including death penalty. In some places, such as Saudi Arabia, the method of punishment for adultery is stoning to death. Proving adultery under Muslim law can be a very difficult task as it requires the accuser to produce four eyewitnesses to the act of sexual intercourse, each of whom should have a good reputation for truthfulness and honesty. The criminal standards do not apply in the application of social and family consequences of adultery, where the standards of proof are not as exacting. Sandra Mackey, author of \"The Saudis: Inside the Desert Kingdom\", stated in 1987 that in Saudi Arabia, \"unlike the tribal rights of a father to put to death a daughter who has violated her chastity, death sentences under Koranic law [for adultery] are extremely rare.\"\n\nIn the Philippines, the law differentiates based on the gender of the spouse. A wife can be charged with the crime of \"Adultery\" for having sexual intercourse with a man other than her husband, while a husband can only be charged with the related crime of \"Concubinage\", which is more loosely defined (it requires either keeping the mistress in the family home, or cohabiting with her, or having sexual relations under scandalous circumstances). There are currently proposals to decriminalize adultery in the Philippines.\n\nIn regions of Iraq and Syria under ISIL, there have been reports of floggings as well as execution against people who engage in adultery. The method of execution was typically through stoning. ISIL would not merely oppose adultery but also oppose behavior that from their point of view could lead to adultery, such as women not being covered, people of the opposite sex socializing with one another, or even female mannequins in store windows.\n\nAdultery is no longer a crime in any European country. Among the last Western European countries to repeal their laws were Italy (1969), Malta (1973), Luxembourg (1974), France (1975), Spain (1978), Portugal (1982), Greece (1983), Belgium (1987), Switzerland (1989), and Austria (1997).\n\nIn most Communist countries adultery was not a crime. Romania was an exception, where adultery was a crime until 2006, though the crime of adultery had a narrow definition, excluding situations where the other spouse encouraged the act or when the act happened at a time the couple was living separate and apart; and in practice prosecutions were extremely rare.\n\nIn Turkey adultery laws were held to be invalid in 1996/1998 because the law was deemed discriminatory as it differentiated between women and men. In 2004, there were proposals to introduce a gender-neutral adultery law. The plans were dropped, and it has been suggested that the objections from the European Union played a role.\n\nBefore the 20th century, adultery was often punished harshly. In Scandinavia, in the 17th century, adultery and bigamy were subject to the death penalty, although few people were actually executed. Examples of women who have been executed for adultery in Medieval and Early Modern Europe include Maria of Brabant, Duchess of Bavaria (in 1256), Agnese Visconti (in 1391), Beatrice Lascaris di Tenda (in 1418), Anne Boleyn (in 1536), and Catherine Howard (in 1542). The enforcement of adultery laws varied by jurisdiction. In England, the last execution for adultery is believed to have taken place in 1654, when a woman named Susan Bounty was hanged.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has had the opportunity to rule in recent years on several cases involving the legitimacy of firing a person from their job due to adultery. These cases dealt with people working for religious organizations and raised the question of the balancing of the right of a person to respect for their private life (recognized in the EU) and the right of religious communities to be protected against undue interference by the State (recognized also in the EU). These situations must be analyzed with regard to their specific circumstances, in each case. The ECtHR had ruled both in favor of the religious organization (in the case of Obst) and in favor of the fired person (in the case of Schüth).\n\nUntil the 1990s, most Latin American countries had laws against adultery. Adultery has been decriminalized in most of these countries, including Paraguay (1990), Chile (1994), Argentina (1995), Nicaragua (1996), Dominican Republic (1997), Brazil (2005), and Haiti (2005). In some countries, adultery laws have been struck down by courts on the ground that they discriminated against women, such as Guatemala (1996), where the Guatemalan Constitutional Court struck down the adultery law based both on the Constitution's gender equality clause and on human rights treaties including CEDAW. The adultery law of the Federal Criminal Code of Mexico was repealed in 2011.\n\nAdultery is not a crime in Australia. Under federal law enacted in 1994, sexual conduct between consenting adults (18 years of age or older) is their private matter throughout Australia, irrespective of marital status. Australian states and territories had previously repealed their respective adultery criminal laws. Australia changed to no-fault divorce in 1975, abolishing adultery as a ground for divorce.\n\nThe United States is one of few industrialized countries to have laws criminalizing adultery. In the United States, laws vary from state to state. Up until the mid 20th century most U.S. states (especially Southern and Northeastern states) had laws against fornication, adultery or cohabitation. These laws have gradually been abolished or struck down by courts as unconstitutional. Pennsylvania abolished its fornication and adultery laws in 1973.\n\nStates which repealed their adultery laws in recent years include West Virginia in 2010, Colorado in 2013, and New Hampshire in 2014, and Massachusetts in 2018.\n\nAs of 2018, adultery remains a criminal offense in 20 states, but prosecutions are rare. Although adultery laws are mostly found in the conservative states (especially Southern states), there are some notable exceptions such as New York. Idaho, Oklahoma, Michigan, and Wisconsin consider adultery a felony, while in the other states it is a misdemeanor. It is a Class B misdemeanor in New York and Utah, and a Class I felony in Wisconsin. Penalties vary from a $10 fine (Maryland) to four years in prison (Michigan). In South Carolina, the fine for adultery is up to $500 and/or imprisonment for no more than one year (South Carolina code 16-15-60), and South Carolina divorce laws deny alimony to the adulterous spouse.\n\nIn the last conviction for adultery in Massachusetts in 1983, it was held that the statute was constitutional and that \"no fundamental personal privacy right implicit in the concept of ordered liberty guaranteed by the United States Constitution bars the criminal prosecution of such persons [adulterers].\" Massachusetts repealed its adultery law in 2018.\n\nIn Utah, the adultery law only applies to the married party (the law states that \"A married person commits adultery when he voluntarily has sexual intercourse with a person other than his spouse.\"). However, Utah also has a fornication law that applies to any unmarried person (also a class B misdemeanor).\n\nIn Florida adultery (\"Living in open adultery\", Art 798.01) is illegal; while cohabitation of unmarried couples was decriminalized in 2016.\n\nSouth Carolina's adultery law came into spotlight in 2009, when then governor Mark Sanford admitted to his extramarital affair. He was not prosecuted for it; it is not clear whether South Carolina could prosecute a crime that occurred in another jurisdiction (Argentina in this case); furthermore, under South Carolina law adultery involves either \"the living together and carnal intercourse with each other\" or, if those involved do not live together \"\"habitual\" carnal intercourse with each other\" which is more difficult to prove.\n\nIn Alabama \"A person commits adultery when he engages in sexual intercourse with another person who is not his spouse and lives in cohabitation with that other person when he or that other person is married.\" Adultery is a Class B misdemeanor.\n\nSince adultery is still a crime in Virginia, persons in divorce proceedings may use the Fifth Amendment. Any criminal convictions for adultery can determine alimony and asset distribution. In 2016 there was a bill in Virginia to decriminalize adultery and make it only a civil offense, but the Virginia Senate did not advance the bill.\n\nIn the U.S. military, adultery is a potential court-martial offense. The enforceability of adultery laws in the United States is unclear following Supreme Court decisions since 1965 relating to privacy and sexual intimacy of consenting adults. However, occasional prosecutions do occur.\n\nSix U.S. states (Hawaii, North Carolina, Mississippi, New Mexico, South Dakota, and Utah) allow the possibility of the tort action of alienation of affections (brought by a deserted spouse against a third party alleged to be responsible for the failure of the marriage). In a highly publicized case in 2010, a woman in North Carolina won a $9 million suit against her husband's mistress.\n\nLaws against adultery have been named as invasive and incompatible with principles of limited government (see Dennis J. Baker, The Right Not to be Criminalized: Demarcating Criminal Law's Authority (Ashgate) chapter 2). Much of the criticism comes from libertarianism, the consensus among whose adherents is that government must not intrude into daily personal lives and that such disputes are to be settled privately rather than prosecuted and penalized by public entities. It is also argued that adultery laws are rooted in religious doctrines; which should not be the case for laws in a secular state.\nOpponents of adultery laws regard them as painfully archaic, believing they represent sanctions reminiscent of nineteenth-century novels. They further object to the legislation of morality, especially a morality so steeped in religious doctrine. Support for the preservation of the adultery laws comes from religious groups and from political parties who feel quite independent of morality, that the government has reason to concern itself with the consensual sexual activity of its citizens … The crucial question is: when, if ever, is the government justified to interfere in consensual bedroom affairs?\nThere is a history of adultery laws being abused. In Somerset, England, a somewhat common practice was for husbands to encourage their wives to seduce another man, who they would then sue or blackmail, under laws (for examples see Criminal conversation) prohibiting men from having sex with women married to other men.\n\nHistorically, in most cultures, laws against adultery were enacted only to prevent women—and not men—from having sexual relations with anyone other than their spouses, since women were deemed their husbands' property, with adultery being often defined as sexual intercourse between a married woman and a man other than her husband. Among many cultures the penalty was—and to this day still is, as noted below—capital punishment. At the same time, men were free to maintain sexual relations with any women (polygyny) provided that the women did not already have husbands or \"owners\". Indeed, (ba`al), Hebrew for \"husband\", used throughout the Bible, is synonymous with \"owner\". These laws were enacted in fear of cuckoldry and thus sexual jealousy. Many indigenous customs, such as female genital mutilation and even menstrual taboos, have been theorized to have originated as preventive measures against cuckolding. This arrangement has been deplored by many modern intellectuals.\n\nOpponents of adultery laws argue that these laws maintain social norms which justify violence, discrimination and oppression of women; in the form of state sanctioned forms of violence such as stoning, flogging or hanging for adultery; or in the form of individual acts of violence committed against women by husbands or relatives, such as honor killings, crimes of passion, and beatings. UN Women has called for the decriminalization of adultery. A Joint Statement by the United Nations Working Group on discrimination against women in law and in practice in 2012, stated:\n\nThe United Nations Working Group on discrimination against women in law and in practice is deeply concerned at the criminalization and penalization of adultery whose enforcement leads to discrimination and violence against women.\n\nConcerns exist that the existence of \"adultery\" as a criminal offense (and even in family law) can affect the criminal justice process in cases of domestic assaults and killings, in particular by mitigating murder to manslaughter, or otherwise proving for partial or complete defenses in case of violence. These concerns have been officially raised by the Council of Europe and the UN in recent years. The Council of Europe Recommendation Rec(2002)5 of the Committee of Ministers to member states on the protection of women against violence states that member states should: (...) \"57. preclude adultery as an excuse for violence within the family\". UN Women has also stated in regard to the defense of provocation and other similar defenses that \"laws should clearly state that these defenses do not include or apply to crimes of 'honour', adultery, or domestic assault or murder.\"\n\nAn argument against the criminal status of adultery is that the resources of the law enforcement are limited, and that they should be used carefully; by investing them in the investigation and prosecution of adultery (which is very difficult) the curbing of serious violent crimes may suffer.\n\nHuman rights organizations have stated that legislation on sexual crimes must be based on consent, and must recognize consent as central, and not trivialize its importance; doing otherwise can lead to legal, social or ethical abuses. Amnesty International, when condemning stoning legislation that targets adultery, among other acts, has referred to \"acts which should never be criminalized in the first place, including consensual sexual relations between adults\". Salil Shetty, Amnesty International's Secretary General, said: \"It is unbelievable that in the twenty-first century some countries are condoning child marriage and marital rape while others are outlawing abortion, sex outside marriage and same-sex sexual activityeven punishable by death.\" The \"My Body My Rights\" campaign has condemned state control over individual sexual and reproductive decisions; stating \"All over the world, people are coerced, criminalized and discriminated against, simply for making choices about their bodies and their lives\".\n\nFor various reasons, most couples who marry do so with the expectation of . Adultery is often seen as a breach of trust and of the commitment that had been made during the act of marriage. Adultery can be emotionally traumatic for both spouses and often results in divorce. However, in a new work, \"The New Rules\" by Dr Catherine Hakim, a British sociologist and author, refers to the United Kingdom arguing that a \"sour and rigid English view\" of as opposed to the 'wonderful French way' of male infidelity is condemning millions of people to live frustrated \"celibate\" lives with their spouses. She argues that there is such a thing as a \"successful affair\" in which both parties are happier but no one gets hurt: \"Sex is no more a moral issue than eating a good meal,\" she writes. \"The fact that we eat most meals at home with spouses and partners does not preclude eating out in restaurants to sample different cuisines and ambiences, with friends or colleagues.\"\n\nAdultery may lead to ostracization from certain religious or social groups.\n\nAdultery can also lead to feelings of guilt and jealousy in the person with whom the affair is being committed. In some cases, this \"third person\" may encourage divorce (either openly or subtly). If the cheating spouse has hinted at divorce in order to continue the affair, the third person may feel deceived if that does not happen. They may simply withdraw with ongoing feelings of guilt, carry on an obsession with their lover, may choose to reveal the affair, or in rare cases commit violence or other crimes.\n\nWhile there is correlation, there is no evidence that divorces \"causes\" children to have struggles in later life.\n\nIf adultery leads to divorce, it also carries higher financial burdens. For example, living expenses and taxes are generally cheaper for married couples than for divorced couples. Legal fees can add up into the tens of thousands of dollars. Divorced spouses may not qualify for benefits such as health insurance, which must then be paid out-of-pocket. Depending on jurisdiction, adultery may negatively affect the outcome of the divorce for the \"guilty\" spouse, even if adultery is not a criminal offense.\n\nLike any sexual contact, extramarital sex opens the possibility of the introduction of sexually-transmitted diseases (STDs) into a marriage. Since most married couples do not routinely use barrier contraceptives, STDs can be introduced to a marriage partner by a spouse engaging in unprotected extramarital sex. This can be a public health issue in regions of the world where STDs are common, but addressing this issue is very difficult due to legal and social barriersto openly talk about this situation would mean to acknowledge that adultery (often) takes place, something that is taboo in certain cultures, especially those strongly influenced by religion. In addition, dealing with the issue of barrier contraception in marriage in cultures where women have very few rights is difficult: the power of women to negotiate safer sex (or sex in general) with their husbands is often limited. The World Health Organization (WHO) found that women in violent relations were at increased risk of HIV/AIDS, because they found it very difficult to negotiate safe sex with their partners, or to ask medical advice if they thought they have been infected.\n\nHistorically, female adultery often resulted in extreme violence, including murder (of the woman, her lover, or both, committed by her husband). Today, domestic violence is outlawed in most countries.\n\nHonor killings are often connected to accusations of adultery. Honor killings continue to be practiced in some parts of the world, particularly (but not only) in parts of South Asia and the Middle East. Honor killings are treated leniently in some legal systems. Honor killings have also taken place in immigrant communities in Europe, Canada and the U.S. In some parts of the world, honor killings enjoy considerable public support: in one survey, 33.4% of teenagers in Jordan's capital city, Amman, approved of honor killings. A survey in Diyarbakir, Turkey, found that, when asked the appropriate punishment for a woman who has committed adultery, 37% of respondents said she should be killed, while 21% said her nose or ears should be cut off.\n\nUntil 2009, in Syria, it was legal for a husband to kill or injure his wife or his female relatives caught in flagrante delicto committing adultery or other illegitimate sexual acts. The law has changed to allow the perpetrator to only \"benefit from the attenuating circumstances, provided that he serves a prison term of no less than two years in the case of killing.\" Other articles also provide for reduced sentences. Article 192 states that a judge may opt for reduced punishments (such as short-term imprisonment) if the killing was done with an honorable intent. Article 242 says that a judge may reduce a sentence for murders that were done in rage and caused by an illegal act committed by the victim. In recent years, Jordan has amended its Criminal Code to modify its laws which used to offer a complete defense for honor killings.\n\nAccording to the UN in 2002:\n\nCrimes of passion are often triggered by jealousy, and, according to Human Rights Watch, \"have a similar dynamic [to honor killings] in that the women are killed by male family members and the crimes are perceived as excusable or understandable.\"\n\nStoning, or lapidation, refers to a form of capital punishment whereby an organized group throws stones at an individual until the person dies, or the condemned person is pushed from a platform set high enough above a stone floor that the fall would probably result in instantaneous death.\n\nStoning continues to be practiced today, in parts of the world. Recently, several people have been sentenced to death by stoning after being accused of adultery in Iran, Somalia, Afghanistan, Sudan, Mali, and Pakistan by tribal courts.\n\nIn some jurisdictions flogging is a punishment for adultery. There are also incidents of extrajudicial floggings, ordered by informal religious courts. In 2011, a 14-year-old girl in Bangladesh died after being publicly lashed, when she was accused of having an affair with a married man. Her punishment was ordered by villagers under Sharia law.\n\nMarried people who form relations with extramarital partners or people who engage in relations with partners married to somebody else may be subjected to violence in these relations. Because of the nature of adulteryillicit or illegal in many societiesthis type of intimate partner violence may go underreported or may not be prosecuted when it is reported; and in some jurisdictions this type of violence is not covered by the specific domestic violence laws meant to protect persons in 'legitimate' couples.\n\nThe theme of adultery has been used in many literary works, and has served as a theme for notable books such as \"Anna Karenina\", \"Madame Bovary\", \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\", \"The Scarlet Letter\" and \"Adultery\". It has also been the theme of many movies.\n\n"}
{"id": "12426531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12426531", "title": "Air route authority between the United States and China", "text": "Air route authority between the United States and China\n\nThere are bilateral treaties that govern aviation rights between the United States and China, which cover both passenger services and cargo services. The United States has liberal aviation agreements with many countries but not China, Japan, South Africa, and some South American countries. However, there is no \"open skies\" agreement between China and the US, which generally refers to an agreement that allows unrestricted flights between countries. The current US-China treaty specifies the number of flights permitted. Due to the highly regulated nature of awards for route authority between the two countries and the strict limits on number of flights, the application process is competitive. US airlines have sought to gain support from local politicians and the general public to influence the US government into awarding routes.\n\nIn 2006, there were 10 non-stop flights between the two countries 2 million passenger trips per year.\n\nAs of 2013, there were 28 non-stop routes (not including Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan), operated by three major US carriers, United, American and Delta, and four Chinese carriers, Air China, China Eastern, China Southern and Hainan Airlines. \n\nAs of 2018, there are 61 non-stop routes (not including Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan), operated by four US carriers, United, American, Delta and six Chinese carriers, Air China, China Eastern, China Southern, Hainan, Xiamen and Sichuan Airlines.\n\nAmong the US carriers:\n\nFollowing a 1987 directive, six Chinese airlines were formed in 1988 when CAAC, the Chinese airline and government regulatory agency for aviation was split and reorganized. Now there are six Chinese carriers which operate US-China air routes: \n\nCurrent number of airlines with non-stop services between cities in China and the United States:\nThe airlines flying between China and the United States cooperate in airline alliance and through codesharing. Participating in airline alliances and codesharing is intended to increase passenger traffic on the airline by allowing reciprocal frequent flyer program benefits and increasing the number of flights that an airline offers, even though the flights are operated by another airline. The first marketing alliance between airlines of the two countries was established in 1996 between Northwest Airlines and Air China.\n\nStar Alliance members using the US-China Air Route Authority are United Airlines, and Air China. SkyTeam includes Delta, China Southern and China Eastern. The Oneworld alliance includes American with direct service (and outside the Authority, Cathay Pacific/Dragonair via Hong Kong).\n\nIn 1979, diplomatic relations between the People's Republic of China and the United States were established. Previously, there had been no air service between China and the United States after 1949 although there were flights between the United States and sections of China controlled by the government based in Taipei (Taiwan).\n\nIn January 1981, CAAC and Pan Am began flying between China and the United States. Northwest Airlines resumed flying to China in 1984. Facing financial troubles, Pan Am sold its Pacific route authority, as well as aircraft and equipment, to United Airlines in 1985 leading to United Airlines operating former Pan Am routes over the Pacific in February 1986.\n\nHong Kong, which was previously a British Crown Colony until 1981 and a British dependent territory from 1981 to 1997, is now a part of China but has a separate air agreement with the United States. Macau, formerly governed by Portugal but now governed by China, also has a separate air agreement with the United States. The province of Taiwan is considered to be a part of China by both the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China, but the island is under de facto control by the government based in Taipei, not Beijing. Due to the severing of diplomatic relations with the Republic of China (Taiwan) by the United States in 1978 in order to establish relations with the People's Republic of China and because the mainland government does not control the province of Taiwan, there is no air service agreement between the United States concerning the province. However, there is an air service agreement between the American Institute in Taiwan and the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office in the United States.\n\nDue to the small number of flights, air fares tend to be high between the two countries.\n\nAlthough the stated goal of both countries is for an open skies agreement, the process of reaching such an agreement has taken several years and has not been completed. Liu Weimin, director of the Aviation Laws Research Centre with the Civil Aviation Management Institute of China, has said \"Under the current market situation, local carriers have a hard time competing against global giants such as Continental. That is why US airlines are enthusiastic to fly to China, while Chinese carriers are hesitating to open more flights. For local airlines, more flights may mean more losses if they cannot get enough passengers.\" There have been reports that the load factors (percentage of seats sold) in business and first class are lower on Chinese carriers than on US carriers.\n\nNot all of the route authority of the Chinese airlines is used.\n\nThe first scheduled non-stop flight between the two countries took place on May 1, 1996, between Detroit and Beijing, and was operated by Northwest Airlines three times a week. Northwest Airlines began Detroit-Shanghai non-stop flights twice a week starting April 6, 2000, before discontinuing non-stop service 18 months later and discontinuing non-stop Detroit-Beijing service in 2002. (the route was later re-instated on July 1, 2011 under the Delta Air Lines brand) Northwest Airlines then became the only airline authorized to fly China that did not offer any non-stop service to that country until it resumed non-stop flights between Detroit and Shanghai on June 1, 2009 (as part of its new parent, Delta Air Lines).\n\nIn April 2000, United Airlines discontinued Shanghai–Tokyo service and launched its first US–China non-stop service from San Francisco to Shanghai. In June 2000, United Airlines discontinued Beijing–Tokyo service and started non-stop Beijing–San Francisco service. This replacement of services was done because of the restrictions on the number of flights permitted under the 1999 air services agreement. Since then, all China routes serviced by United Airlines are non-stop. United's Beijing–Tokyo service was re-instated on October 26 as a temporary replacement for the Dulles–Beijing non-stop service (which was suspended for the winter season). United's Dulles–Beijing service operates year-round.\n\nChina Eastern began service to San Francisco in 1997 but has since discontinued passenger service to the airport, though cargo flights continue to be operated. China Eastern later resumed service to San Francisco on April 26, 2013. Passenger service to Chicago via Seattle has also been discontinued. Several Chinese airlines operated services to Anchorage, primarily as a fuel stop but such stops are no longer operated, in part because of long range aircraft in service.\n\nIn 2007, Delta Air Lines won the bid to operate non-stop flights between Atlanta and Shanghai. However, in 2009, only one year after having won the route, Delta suspended the route due to weak customer demand, the struggling US economy, high fuel prices, and the H1N1 flu pandemic. Delta flew its final Atlanta-Shanghai route on September 1, 2009. Delta replaced Northwest on its Detroit–Shanghai service using its Boeing 777 on October 24, 2009. Delta re-instated the Atlanta to Shanghai route on June 5, 2011, operating 2 days a week, as part of the carrier's international expansion for 2011. The route, however, ceased on January 17, 2012 for the second time citing poor performance on the route.\n\nConcluded in April 1999, airlines from each country were allowed to increase the number of weekly flights from 27 to 54, including cargo flights. 20 of these flights were designated for all-cargo flights. Each country was allowed to designate one additional airline so that four airlines from each country were allowed to fly between the two countries.\n\nUnited Airlines gained additional frequencies under this agreement and, in April 2000, started non-stop Shanghai-San Francisco service.\n\nA new agreement was signed July 2004\n\nThe agreement allowed each country's carriers to serve any city in the other country. In practice, service between the two countries occurs between three large Chinese cities and a few cities in the U.S. Prior to the agreement, Chinese carriers were limited to 12 U.S. cities, and U.S. passenger carriers to only five Chinese cities. The agreement permitted unlimited code-sharing between U.S. and Chinese airlines, which had previously been limited to certain cities.\n\nAt the time of the agreement, there were plans for additional negotiations to begin in 2006 which led to another agreement in 2007.\n\nThe 2004 agreement led to the 2005 expansion of flights between the two countries as well as new service by Northwest Airlines from Tokyo to Guangzhou, which began on November 1, 2004, operated using Boeing 757 aircraft. (The route was planned to be resumed on July 6, 2011, by Delta, however, the airline indefinitely postponed the route.) United Airlines began non-stop Chicago–Shanghai flights on October 31, 2004.\n\nIn June 2005, the U.S. Department of Transportation awarded American Airlines authority to fly between Chicago and Shanghai as well as authority to Continental Airlines to fly between Newark and Beijing.\n\nIn 2006, several U.S. airlines applied for additional route authority that was granted in 2007. The United Airlines application to fly between Dulles International Airport near Washington, D.C., and Beijing was selected. The route started operating on March 25, 2007, using Boeing 747-400 aircraft.\n\nIn addition to United's application, American Airlines, Continental Airlines and Northwest Airlines had also applied for route authority.\n\nContinental applied for rights to fly between Newark, New Jersey, and Shanghai. Northwest applied for the right to fly to Shanghai from Detroit. American's application originally was for non-stop service between Dallas/Fort Worth and Beijing, but changed the application to include an eastbound stop in Chicago after an impasse with pilots regarding work hours on the planned flight.\n\nIn April 2006, the two countries began negotiations for further liberalization of the bilateral agreement. Talks were suspended in August 2006, but later resumed. The United States has stated that suspension of talks was due to an unrelated issue. Unofficial Chinese sources report that there was concern because of a \"gap\" in Chinese airlines' ability to compete with U.S. airlines. Negotiations were scheduled to resume in January 2007.\n\nAn agreement reached on July 7, 2007, allows nearly unlimited service between China and Guam and between China and the Northern Mariana Islands. These unlimited rights do not include Beijing or Shanghai flights operated by US airlines but do include those cities for mainland Chinese airlines.\n\nNot including the potential expansion to Guam and Saipan (Northern Mariana Islands), by 2011 the current bilateral between the two countries will expand the number of US airlines flying to China from four to nine airlines and from 54 passenger flights weekly to 249.\n\nNegotiations for an open skies agreement were scheduled to begin not later than March 25, 2010, according to a treaty between the two countries.\n\nFor the 2007, 2008, and 2009 awards, the Department of Transportation awarded routes at one time instead of considering one year at a time. United and Delta objected unsuccessfully to have the process separated.\n\nOne award to a new entrant, an airline not flying to China, was decided. Delta applied for Atlanta–Shanghai using 777-200ER initially then 777-200LR when they are delivered in 2008. Northwest applied for route authority as a new entrant, claiming that although it flies to China, it does so via Japan and not non-stop. It envisioned using a 747-400 if awarded the route in 2007 but planned to use a 787 if awarded the route in 2009.\n\nSeveral sources have noted that before the route authority was granted, Delta was virtually assured of being awarded the route. The DOT awarded the route to Delta on September 25, 2007. Delta announced that it will begin service on March 30, 2008, one of the latest dates that they were allowed to begin. The route was later suspended in September 2009. However, Delta re-instated the route starting June 5, 2011.\n\nOne award for flights between Guangzhou and the United States was granted. Only United Airlines applied and was granted rights. It planned San Francisco–Guangzhou service using a Boeing 777. However, United delayed the route to June 30, 2010, due to the sudden decrease in international travel.\n\nOne award was granted to a new entrant airline as stated by the DOT when applications were sought. Hawaiian Airlines has withdrawn its application. US Airways applied for Philadelphia–Beijing authority using an Airbus A340-300, an aircraft that it neither operates nor has any firm orders to buy. Maxjet applied for rights between Seattle and Shanghai using an all business class configured Boeing 767-200ER. US Airways was granted rights by the DOT over Maxjet citing more seat availability and greater connecting possibilities with the US Airways bid. However, the airline relinquished the DOT authorization for Beijing at the end of 2009.\n\nHainan Airlines began service from Beijing to Seattle with A330 equipment.\n\nThree routes to U.S. carriers that were not new entrants were awarded. There were applications for six routes. \n\nThe American Airlines, Continental Airlines and Northwest Airlines route applications were granted. The DOT cited the United application as \"not addressing the broader competitive needs\" given that United has approximately half of the flights by U.S. carriers to China. The DOT cited American's OneWorld airline alliance as having less access to the US–China market as one of the factors in its decision.\n\nIn a hint of the DOT's decision-making process and preferences, it stated in its report intention to grant Continental and American Airlines route authority that \"this tentatively leaves seven frequencies to be awarded ... Delta and Northwest.\" The DOT stated that Northwest, which already had route authority between Detroit and China but has chosen to fly the route via Tokyo (though it did operate some non-stop flights in the past), was applying for additional Detroit–China authority. Such application was denied in the past due to the limited number of new route authority but that now there is more leeway with more flights permitted by treaty. The DOT selected Detroit–Shanghai over Detroit–Beijing. The DOT noted that Delta was not awarded its route application because it would not have much experience in the Chinese market when the 2009 award was to start, given that it would only begin Atlanta–Shanghai service on March 30, 2008. The Atlanta–Shanghai Delta service was suspended on September 1, 2009, but was re-instated on June 5, 2011; the route, however, ceased again on January 17, 2012 due to poor loads. Delta also applied to the US DOT to begin non-stop flights between Detroit and Beijing starting July 1, 2011.\n\nThe DOT also announced, along with its 2007–2009 route authority awards, that route authority must be operated for five years before it could be sold. Previously, the required period was one year.\n\nDOT approved the requests for a new route between Shanghai and Los Angeles from American Airlines and United Airlines at the end of 2010. Delta has decided to reactivate its Shanghai–Atlanta route. Delta is also granted a new route between Beijing and Detroit.\n\nIn September, 2011, China Eastern starts non-stop service between Shanghai and Honolulu.\n\nDelta Air Lines again suspended its Atlanta–Shanghai route as of January 18, 2012, stating the route had \"performed poorly.\" Following this route closure, Delta announced a new Seattle–Shanghai route effective June 17, 2013, the second Seattle-China route operated by this airline (after Delta's Seattle–Beijing route which was launched 3 years earlier).\n\nChina Eastern resumed Shanghai-San Francisco service in April.\n\nOn January 15, 2013, Air China announced it plans to launch non-stop service between Houston and Beijing, beginning Thursday, July 11, 2013, pending approval from the United States Department of Transportation.\n\nOn April 10, 2013, Hawaiian Airlines announced it plans to launch non-stop service between Honolulu and Beijing, China on 16 April 2014, pending approvals by U.S. and Chinese regulatory agencies.\n\nIn September, United gets DOT OK for San Francisco–Chengdu route. The first flight of this route will be on June 9, 2014.\n\nOn October 16, 2013, American Airlines announced that they were proposing a directly flight between Dallas and Shanghai, starting 11 June 2014.\nIn December, Hainan Airlines announced that they planned to launch direct flights between China's capital city Beijing and the U.S. city of Boston, starting 20 June 2014.\n\nAir China has aggressively expanded its nonstop service between the US and China. In June, Air China launch a new nonstop route connecting Washington Dulles and Beijing. Air China's Honolulu-Beijing nonstop flights began on Jan. 21. Beginning March 30, the carrier will upgrade its service between Houston and Beijing from four flights a week to daily service.\n\nAmerican Airlines initiated service from Dallas/Fort Worth to Shanghai while also initiating service to Hong Kong on June 11, 2014. \n\nChina Southern added direct service between Guangzhou and New York in August 6, 2014. \n\nHainan Airlines initiated service between Beijing and Boston on June 20, 2014. \n\nAmerican Airlines initiated nonstop service between Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW) and Beijing on May 7.\n\nHainan Airlines initiated nonstop service between Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK) and Mineta San José International Airport. Hainan also initiated service to both Boston and Seattle from Shanghai, becoming the first Chinese airline to fly to North America from more than one base in mainland China.\n(SJC) on June 15.\n\nChina Eastern Airlines launched a direct flight connecting Nanjing, capital city of East China's Jiangsu province, and Los Angeles on June 30.\n\nAir China strengthened service to the New York area in the 4th quarter of 2015, as it began Beijing – Newark service 4 times a week. The Boeing 777-300ER operated this route from October 26, 2015.\n\nOn September 22, 2015, United Airlines announced that it is seeking regulatory approval to begin seasonal flights between its San Francisco hub and the interior Chinese city of Xi'an, effective May 2016. The service would operate from mid-May through late October. However, United Airlines terminated this service on December 9, 2017.\n\nOn January 21, 2016, Hainan Airlines launched a route between the Chinese city Changsha of Hunan province and Los Angeles, the company's eighth North American route. The airline uses the Boeing 787 Dreamliner for the new, twice-weekly service operating every Monday and Thursday, which will have a flight duration of approximately 13.5 hours.\n\nOn March 9, 2016, United announced that it would launch service to the Chinese city Hangzhou from San Francisco, the airline's fifth destination in mainland China. The airline started the route on July 13, 2016 (from San Francisco); July 15, 2016 (from Hangzhou) using the Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner aircraft. However, this service terminated in October 16, 2017. \n\nOn May 11, 2016, Xiamen Airlines announced service to Shenzhen from Seattle. The aircraft route will begin on September 26, 2016, in the city of Xiamen (headquarters to Xiamen Airlines), then shuttle to Shenzhen before making the nonstop flight to Seattle. Xiamen Airlines, who operates the largest all-Boeing fleet in China, will serve the route three times per week with 787-8 aircraft. Xiamen has also recently announced a new, 3 times weekly service between the city of Fuzhou, and JFK International Airport, in Queens, New York.\n\nOn September 1, Air China commenced nonstop service between San Jose and Shanghai. Air China became the 2nd Chinese airline to fly into Silicon Valley. \n\nOn September 29, China Eastern Airlines commenced non-stop service between San Francisco and its growing base in Qingdao. The route was previously marketed as a one-stop flight via Shanghai-Pudong but was transitioned to a 3 time weekly non-stop service on their A330-200 aircraft. \n\nOn October 14, United Airlines began to operate their second daily Shanghai-San Francisco flight, on board Boeing 787-9 aircraft.\n\nOn Dec 2, 2016, Hainan Airlines has just launched their newest US route, 3x weekly flights between Las Vegas and Beijing as of December 2, 2016. The flight will be operated by a Boeing 787, with the schedule on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.\n\nOn March 16, 2017, Hainan Airlines launched non-stop service between Los Angeles and Chengdu. On March 22, 2017, Hainan Airlines launched non-stop service between Los Angeles and Chongqing.\nOn October 21, 2017, Hainan Airlines launched non-stop service between New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and Chongqing. On October 27, 2017, Hainan Airlines launched non-stop service between New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and Chengdu.\nOn November 5, 2017, American Airlines launched daily non-stop flight between Los Angeles and Beijing. \nOn December 7, 2017, Air China Launched New Non-Stop Service Between Shenzhen and Los Angeles. \nOn July 19, 2017, Delta Airlines announced new service between Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport and Shanghai Pudong International Airport starting in July 2018.\nIn 2014, Hawaiian and Air China will join China Eastern Airlines in connecting passengers between Honolulu and the country that tourism leaders see as the next growth market for the islands.\n"}
{"id": "558426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=558426", "title": "Alaska boundary dispute", "text": "Alaska boundary dispute\n\nThe Alaska boundary dispute was a territorial dispute between the United States and the United Kingdom, which then controlled Canada's foreign relations. It was resolved by arbitration in 1903. The dispute existed between the Russian Empire and Britain since 1821, and was inherited by the United States as a consequence of the Alaska Purchase in 1867. The final resolution favored the American position, and Canada did not get an all-Canadian outlet from the Yukon gold fields to the sea. The disappointment and anger in Canada was directed less at the United States, and more at the British government for betraying Canadian interests in favour of healthier Anglo-American relations.\n\nIn 1825 Russia and Britain signed a treaty to define the borders of their respective colonial possessions, the Anglo-Russian Convention of 1825. Part of the wording of the treaty was that:\n\nThe vague phrase \"the mountains parallel to the coast\" was further qualified thus:\n\nThis part of the treaty language was an agreement on general principles for establishing a boundary in the area in the future, rather than any exact demarcated line.\n\nSigned in 1839, the RAC–HBC Agreement created an understanding between the Russian-American Company and the Hudson's Bay Company. Typically referred to as the \"lisière\" (edge), a stretch of the Alaskan Panhandle from Cross Sound to 54° 40′ was given to the HBC as a fur trade monopoly in exchange for the agricultural and pastoral products produced by its subsidiary, the Puget Sound Agricultural Company, along with an annual amount of furs given to the Russian company. The lease was renewed until the end of Russian America. This lease was later brought up by the Province of British Columbia as bearing upon its own territorial interests in the region, but was ignored by Ottawa and London.\n\nThe United States bought Alaska in 1867 from Russia in the Alaska Purchase, but the boundary terms were ambiguous. In 1871, British Columbia united with the new Canadian Confederation. The Canadian government requested a survey of the boundary, but the United States rejected it as too costly; the border area was very remote and sparsely settled, and without economic or strategic interest. In 1898, the national governments agreed on a compromise, but the government of British Columbia rejected it. U.S. President McKinley proposed a permanent lease to Canada of a port near Haines, but Canada rejected that compromise.\n\nIn 1897–98 the Klondike Gold Rush in Yukon, Canada, enormously increased the population of the general area, which reached 30,000, composed largely of Americans. Some 100,000 fortune seekers moved through Alaska to the Klondike gold region.\n\nThe presence of gold and a large new population greatly increased the importance of the region and the desirability of fixing an exact boundary. Canada wanted an all-Canadian route from the gold fields to a seaport. There are claims that Canadian citizens were harassed by the U.S. as a deterrent to making any land claims.\n\nThe head of Lynn Canal was the main gateway to the Yukon, and the North-West Mounted Police (NWMP) sent a detachment to secure the location for Canada. This was based on Canada's assertion that that location was more than ten marine leagues from the sea, which was part of the 1825 boundary definition. A massive influx of American stampeders through Skagway very quickly forced the Canadian police to retreat. They set up posts on the desolate summits of Chilkoot and White Passes, complete with a mounted Gatling gun at each post. This was still disputed territory, as many Americans believed that the head of Lake Bennett, another north, should be the location of the border. To back up the police in their sovereignty claim, the Canadian government also sent the Yukon Field Force, a 200-man Army unit, to the territory. The soldiers set up camp at Fort Selkirk so that they could be fairly quickly dispatched to deal with problems at either the coastal passes or the 141st meridian west.\n\nThe posts set up on the passes by the NWMP were effective in the short term, as the provisional boundary was accepted, if grudgingly. In September 1898, serious negotiations began between the United States and Canada to settle the issue, but those meetings failed.\n\nThe treaty of 1825 was drawn up in French, and the 1903 British advocates discussed the exact meaning of words like \"\"côte\"/coast\", \"\"lisière\"/strip\" and \"\"crête\"/crest\". The maps of George Vancouver, which were used as a fixing line by the commission of 1825, showed a continuous line of mountains parallel to the coast — however, the mountain range is neither parallel to the coast nor continuous.\n\nFinally, in 1903, the between the United States and Britain entrusted the decision to an arbitration by a mixed tribunal of six members: three Americans (Elihu Root, Secretary of War; Henry Cabot Lodge, senator from Massachusetts; and George Turner, ex-senator from Washington), two Canadians (Sir Louis A. Jette, Lieutenant Governor of Quebec; and Allen B. Aylesworth, K.C., from Toronto), and one Briton (Baron Alverstone). All sides respected Root, but he was a member of the U.S. Cabinet. Canadians ridiculed the choice of the obscure ex-Senator Turner and, especially, Lodge, a leading historian and diplomatic specialist whom they saw as unobjective.\n\nThe tribunal considered six main points:\n\nThe British member Lord Alverstone sided with the U.S. position on these basic issues, although the final agreed demarcation line fell significantly short of the maximal U.S. claim (it was a compromise falling roughly between the maximal U.S. and maximal Canadian claim). The \"BC Panhandle\" (the Tatshenshini-Alsek region) was not quite exclaved from the rest of British Columbia.\n\nIn 1929 Canadian scholar Hugh L. L. Keenlyside concluded, \"The Americans, of course, did have the better case.\" He judged that most of the tribunal's decisions were fair. Regarding the key issue of the islands in the Portland Channel, however,\n\nThis was one of several concessions that Britain offered to the United States (the others being on fisheries and the Panama Canal). It was part of a general policy of ending the chill in Britain–U.S. relations, achieving rapprochement, winning American favour and resolving outstanding issues (the Great Rapprochement).\n\nKeenlyside and Brown wrote that\n\nThe Canadian judges refused to sign the award, issued on 20 October 1903, due to the Canadian delegates' disagreement with Lord Alverstone's vote. Canadians protested the outcome, not so much the decision itself but that the Americans had chosen politicians instead of jurists for the tribunal, and that the British had helped their own interests by betraying Canada's. This led to intense anti-British emotions erupting throughout Canada (including Quebec) as well as a surge in Canadian nationalism as separate from an imperial identity. Although suspicions of the U.S. provoked by the award may have contributed to Canada's rejection of a free trade with the United States in the 1911 \"reciprocity election\", historian F. W. Gibson concluded that Canadians vented their anger less upon the United States and \"to a greater degree upon Great Britain for having offered such feeble resistance to American aggressiveness. The circumstances surrounding the settlement of the dispute produced serious dissatisfaction with Canada's position in the British Empire.\" Infuriated, like most Canadians, Prime Minister Wilfrid Laurier explained to Parliament, \"So long as Canada remains a dependency of the British Crown the present powers that we have are not sufficient for the maintenance of our rights.\" Canadian anger gradually subsided, but the feeling that Canada should control its own foreign policy may have contributed to the Statute of Westminster.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15611991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15611991", "title": "Albian Sands", "text": "Albian Sands\n\nAlbian Sands Energy Inc. is the operator of the Muskeg River Mine and Jack Pine Mine, an oil sands mining project located north of Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. It is a joint venture between Shell Canada (10%), CNRL (70%) and Chevron Canada (20%). The company's legal headquarters are located in the Shell Tower in Calgary, Alberta. Albian Sands got its name from the Albian Boreal Sea which, during the Albian stage of the Cretaceous (over 100 million years ago), moved over the McMurray sands and deposited a blanket of marine shale on its floor which trapped the hydrocarbons of the McMurray Formation. The oil sands resources of the Muskeg River Mine are a legacy of the Albian Sea.\n\nAt full production, Albian Sands can produce of crude bitumen, a naturally occurring semi-solid form of crude oil. The mine product, diluted bitumen or \"dilbit\", is sent to be upgraded at the Scotford Upgrader in Fort Saskatchewan. The Muskeg River Mine stands on a Shell Canada lease containing more than of mineable bitumen, of which it is expected to recover of bitumen over the next 30 years. The Muskeg River Mine, Jack Pine Mine and the Scotford Upgrader together comprise the Athabasca Oil Sands Project (AOSP).\n\nA proposed future mine expansion would increase production by 100,000 bbl/day. The (incremental) expansion project received regulatory approval in late 2006.\n\nAt the mine site, the 175 megawatt MRM Cogeneration plant owned 70% by ATCO Power and 30% by SaskPower supplies process steam and electricity to the mine. 50% of the electricity produced is surplus to mine needs and is sold into the Alberta power grid. The Corridor Pipeline which transports diluted bitumen from the Muskeg River Mine to the Scotford Upgrader is owned by Inter Pipeline Ltd.. To accommodate its workforce, the project has built a 2460-room \"village\" with service and recreation facilities.\n\nThe project is using satellite based imaging to ensure transparent reporting of its land use.\n"}
{"id": "15571875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15571875", "title": "Albrighton v RPA Hospital", "text": "Albrighton v RPA Hospital\n\nAlbrighton v RPA Hospital, is a tort law case concerning the application of the Bolam test for professional negligence.\n\nMs Albrighton () was born with kyphoscoliosis and spina bifida which seriously impaired her respiratory function and shortened her life expectancy. In July 1971 she was admitted to Royal Prince Alfred Hospital for corrective surgery intended to straighten and lengthen her spine in a procedure known as halo-pelvic traction. At the hospital she was treated by Dr Harry Tyer, an orthopaedic surgeon. The hospitals consultation sheet recorded on 23 July 1971 that \"Dr Tyer would appreciate advice regarding significance of her hairy naevus with respect to spinal pathology and possible dangers to cord of correction of scoliosis by halo-pelvic traction.\" The frame was attached to her skull and pelvis on 26 July 1971. On that day Professor Richard Gye, a neuro-surgeon, wrote on the consultation sheet \"As she has had (just) traction I will see her later in the week.\" A myelogram was not carried out prior to applying traction, which commenced on 28 July. On 30 July Ms Albrighton started showing signs of spinal cord involvement. By 1 August Ms Albrighton became unable to walk. All traction was stopped on 2 August, however her spinal cord was totally severed leaving her a paraplegic. Professor Gye saw Ms Albrighton on 2 August however the paraplegia was irrevocable.\n\nIn 1977 Ms Albrighton commenced proceedings in the Supreme Court of NSW, claiming that either or both of the doctors were negligent and the hospital was vicariously liable for their negligence. The case was heard before Yeldham J and a jury. Yeldham J had allowed only part of the hospital medical records to be tendered. Neither Dr Tyer nor Professor Gye gave evidence. After 11 days of hearing Yeldham J directed the jury to return a verdict for the defendants. Yeldham J held that :\n\nReynolds JA rejected the proposition that doctors could not be negligent if they acted in accordance with the usual and customary practice and procedure in their “medical community”, holding that \"it is not the law that, if all or most of the medical practitioners in Sydney habitually fail to take an available precaution to avoid foreseeable risk of injury to their patients, then none can be found guilty of negligence\".\n\nReynolds JA held that the hospital had undertaken to provide for Ms Albrighton's complete medical care and to provide that service through staff chosen by the hospital. On that evidence a jury could find that the hospital had undertaken to take reasonable care to provide for her medical needs and that there was an overriding and continuing duty of care owed by the hospital, regardless of the legal duties imposed on the doctors.\n\nHutley JA held that the evidence of the hospital's Deputy Medical Records Administrator established that the whole of the hospitals records were written for the purposes of the hospital and that those records were \"kept for the information of the staff and treating doctors. They are not likely repositories of the speculations of the inexpert; and this is a fact to be considered on their admissibility\". Accordingly the documents should have been admitted. Similarly Hope JA held that the records were made by people who intended them to be as accurately as possible. While mistakes could occur they were likely to be far more reliable than human memory.\n\nReynolds JA held that on the evidence a jury could have found that Dr Tyer had some reservations about applying traction and knew that traction could endagner the integrity of Ms Albrighton's spinal cord. Despite those reservations Dr Tyer had applied traction without receiving any advice or any further diagnostic investigations. On this basis the jury could have found that Dr Tyer had been negligent.\n\nReynolds JA held that on 26 July 1971 Professor Gye ought to have been alerted to the possibility that the spinal cord had not developed properly and knew and accepted that the danger to her spinal cord would depend on his advise. This was enough to impose a duty of care on Professor Gye and the jury may have found that his failure to intervene was a breach of his duty of care.\n\nThe Court of Appeal did not decide whether or not the hospital or doctors had been negligent and instead ordered that there be a new trial. There is however no record of whether such a trial occurred nor its outcome.\n\nThe approach of the Court of Appeal was subsequently approved by the High Court in \"Rogers v Whitaker\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5542650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5542650", "title": "Arbitration award", "text": "Arbitration award\n\nAn arbitration award (or arbitral award) is a determination on the merits by an arbitration tribunal in an arbitration, and is analogous to a judgment in a court of law. It is referred to as an 'award' even where all of the claimant's claims fail (and thus no money needs to be paid by either party), or the award is of a non-monetary nature.\n\nAlthough arbitration awards are characteristically an award of damages against a party, tribunals usually have a range of remedies that can form a part of the award.\n\nArbitration is particularly popular as a means of dispute resolution in the commercial sphere (for a summary of the various arenas in which arbitration is usually chosen, see the specific article on \"arbitration\"). One of the reasons for doing so is that, in international trade, it is often easier to enforce an arbitration award in a foreign country than it is to enforce a judgment of the court.\n\nUnder the New York Convention 1958, an award issued in a contracting state can generally be freely enforced in any other contracting state, only subject to certain, limited defences. Those defences are:\n\n\nVirtually every significant commercial country in the world is a party to the Convention, but relatively few countries have a comprehensive network for cross-border enforcement of judgments of the court. Hence in many countries, particularly in emerging markets, a foreign arbitration award is much easier to enforce than an award of the court. For example, it is very difficult to enforce foreign judgments in the former CIS countries, but it is considerably easier to enforce awards of an arbitration tribunal.\n\nThe other characteristic of cross-border enforcement of arbitration awards that makes them appealing to commercial parties is that they are not limited to awards of damages. Whereas in most countries only monetary judgments are enforceable in the cross-border context, no such restrictions are imposed on arbitration awards and so it is theoretically possible (although unusual in practice) to obtain an injunction or an order for specific performance in an arbitration proceeding which could then be enforced in another New York Convention contracting state.\n\nThe New York Convention is not actually the only treaty dealing with cross-border enforcement of arbitration awards. The earlier Geneva Convention on the Execution of Foreign Arbitral Awards 1927 remains in force, but the success of the New York Convention means that the Geneva Convention is rarely utilised in practise.\n\nIn judicial proceedings in many countries, governments enjoy sovereign immunity from suit. However, governments can submit to arbitration, and certain international conventions exist in relation to the enforcement of awards against nation states.\n\nAlthough it is common to talk of an arbitration award as a single concept, in most legal jurisdictions there are several sub-categories of award.\n\nThe legal requirements relating to the making of awards vary from country to country and, in some cases, according to the terms of the arbitration agreement. Although in most countries, awards can be oral, this is relatively uncommon and they are usually delivered in writing.\n\nBy way of example, in the United Kingdom, the following are requirements under the Arbitration Act 1996 which the award must comply with, unless the parties agree to vary them under section 52 of the Act:\n\nMany countries have similar requirements, but most permit the parties to vary the conditions, which reflects the fact that arbitration is a party-driven process.\n\nIt is sometimes said that arbitration awards are not normally subject to appeal (often another reason given in favour of using arbitration), but that is usually an oversimplification.\n\nMost countries in the world allow arbitration awards to be \"challenged\" in the court, although they usually limit the circumstances in which such challenges may be brought. The two most commonly permitted grounds of challenge are:\n\nArbitration awards are non-justiciable. Distinguish from an \"expert determination\" where the expert determines a matter of fact (which is ordinarily not subject to any form of appeal at all, except in cases of obvious bias or manifest error or bad faith).\n\nIn addition, although not by way of challenge, many countries permit appeals on a point of law (although almost no countries permit appeals to be made in relation to findings of fact). This right is usually closely circumscribed to avoid undermining the commercial efficacy of arbitration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26687199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26687199", "title": "Autorité des marchés financiers (Québec)", "text": "Autorité des marchés financiers (Québec)\n\nThe Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) is the organisation responsible for financial regulation in the Canadian province of Québec. It regulates the province's financial markets and provides assistance to consumers of financial products and services. As provided for under its incorporating legislation, the AMF's mission is to enforce the laws governing the regulation of the financial sector, notably in the areas of insurance, securities, deposit institutions (other than banks) and the distribution of financial products and services.\n\nThe AMF coordinates its activities with self-regulating bodies such as the \"Chambre des services financiers\" (Chamber of Financial Security) and the \"Chambre de l'Assurance de dommages\" (Chamber of Damage Insurance), including professional ethics and continuing education.\n\nEstablished under An Act respecting the Autorité des marchés financiers on February 1, 2004, the AMF is unique by virtue of its integrated regulation of the Québec financial sector, notably in the areas of insurance, securities, deposit institutions (other than banks) and the distribution of financial products and services.\n\nThe \"Autorité des marchés financiers\" (Authority of financial markets) derives its authority from the \"Loi sur l'Autorité des marchés financiers\" (Financial Market Authority Act). It is the result of the merger of the \"Commission des valeurs mobilières du Québec\" (Québec Securities Commission - CVMQ), the Bureau des services financiers (Québec) (Financial Services Bureau - BSF), the Régie de l'assurance-dépôt du Québec (Québec Deposit Insurance Corporation) (RADQ), the Fonds d'indemnisation des services financiers (Financial Services Compensation Fund) (FISF) and the \"Inspecteur general des institutions financières\" (Inspector General of Financial Institutions) (IGIF).\n\nThe AMF was established by the act 2002-45 of December 11, 2002 under the name of the \"National Financial Sector Management Agency\", in order to integrate the functions of the Bureau des services financiers (Québec) and the Commission des valeurs mobilières du Québec (Securities Commission of Quebec), which were created by The laws bill 2002-45 of December 11, 2002- 48 of 16 December 1982.\n\nIt was then renamed under its current name by the Act 2004-37 du 17 décember 2004.\n\nThe people who have served as AMF's president and CEO are: Jean Saint-Gelais (2004-2010), Mario Albert (2010-2013), Louis Morisset (2013-today).\n\nIn addition to the powers and responsibilities conferred on it by its incorporating legislation, the AMF oversees the enforcement of laws in each of the areas it regulates. It can also draw on self-regulatory organizations (SROs), to which certain regulatory powers are delegated.\n\nThe AMF is financially self-sufficient through the fees and dues paid by the persons and firms governed by the legislation it is charged with enforcing.\n\nThe AMF is headed by a President and Chief Executive Officer appointed by the government. In applying its governance rules, the AMF is supported by an Internal Auditor as well as an Advisory Board.\n\nThe \"Autorité des marchés financiers\" also administers the following mandates:\n\nThe Authority permits public access to various registers:\n\nAutorité des marchés financiers is one of two major securities regulators in Canada, the largest in Canada being the Ontario Securities Commission. The AMF regulates securities in the province of Quebec. The major exchange under its purview is the Montreal Exchange.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "793718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=793718", "title": "BACnet", "text": "BACnet\n\nBACnet is a communications protocol for Building Automation and Control (BAC) networks that leverage the ASHRAE, ANSI, and ISO 16484-5 standard protocol.\n\nBACnet was designed to allow communication of building automation and control systems for applications such as heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning control (HVAC), lighting control, access control, and fire detection systems and their associated equipment. The BACnet protocol provides mechanisms for computerized building automation devices to exchange information, regardless of the particular building service they perform.\n\nThe development of the BACnet protocol began in June, 1987, in Nashville, Tennessee, at the inaugural meeting of the ASHRAE BACnet committee, known at that time as SPC 135P, \"EMCS Message Protocol\". The committee worked at reaching consensus using working groups to divide up the task of creating a standard. The working groups focused on specific areas and provided information and recommendations to the main committee. The first three working groups were the Data Type and Attribute Working Group, Primitive Data Format Working Group, and the Application Services Working Group.\n\nBACnet became ASHRAE/ANSI Standard 135 in 1995, and ISO 16484-5 in 2003. The Method of Test for Conformance to BACnet was published in 2003 as BSR/ASHRAE Standard 135.1. BACnet is under continuous maintenance by the ASHRAE Standing Standard Project Committee 135.\n\nBACnet had an almost immediate impact on the HVAC controls industry. In 1996 Alerton announced a complete BACnet product line for HVAC controls, from the operator's workstation down to small variable air volume (VAV) controllers. Automated Logic Corporation and Delta Controls soon followed suit. On July 12, 2017 BACnet reached a milestone with the issuance of the 1000th Vendor ID. Vendor IDs are assigned by ASHRAE and are distributed internationally. Those vendor identifiers can be viewed at the BACnet website.\n\nH. Michael (Mike) Newman, Manager of the Computer Section of the Utilities and Energy Management Department at Cornell University, served as the BACnet committee chairman until June, 2000, when he was succeeded by his vice-chair of 13 years, Steven (Steve) Bushby from NIST. \n\nDuring Steve Bushby's four-year term as committee chair the BACnet standard was republished twice, in 2001 and 2004, each time with new capabilities added to the standard. The 2001 version featured, among other things, extensions to support fire / life-safety systems. \n\nIn June, 2004, 17 years after the first BACnet meeting and back in Nashville, William (Bill) Swan (a.k.a. \"BACnet Bill\") from Alerton began his four-year stint as committee chair. During his term the number of committee working groups grew to 11, pursuing areas such as support for lighting, access control, energy utility/building integration and wireless communications. \n\nIn January 2006 the BACnet Manufacturers Association and the BACnet Interest Group of North America combined their operation in a new organization called BACnet International.\n\nIn June 2008, in Salt Lake City, Dave Robin from Automated Logic Corporation took over the reins as the new committee chair after serving 4 years as vice chair. During Dave's term, 22 addenda were published for the 135-2008 standard and republished as 135-2010. Several addenda were published for 135-2010 and the standard was republished as 135-2012. \n\nIn June 2012, in San Antonio, Carl Neilson from Delta Controls took over the reins as the new committee chair after serving 4 years as vice chair. During Carl's term, 12 addenda were published for the 135-2012 standard and the it was republished as 135-2016. Carl stepped down as chair in June 2015. \n\nIn June 2015, Bernhard Isler, from Siemens, became chair after serving 3 years as vice chair and 4 years as secretary. During Bernhard's term, 10 addenda were published for the 135-2016 standard. Once addenda to 135.1-2013 was also published. Bernhard stepped down as chair in June 2018.\n\nIn June 2018, Michael Osborne from Reliable Controls, became chair after serving 3 years as secretary and 3 years as vice chair.\n\nThe BACnet protocol defines a number of services that are used to communicate between building devices. The protocol services include Who-Is, I-Am, Who-Has, I-Have, which are used for Device and Object discovery. Services such as Read-Property and Write-Property are used for data sharing. As of ANSI/ASHRAE 135-2016, the BACnet protocol defines 60 object types that are acted upon by the services. \n\nThe BACnet protocol defines a number of data link / physical layers, including ARCNET, Ethernet, BACnet/IP, BACnet/IPv6, Point-To-Point over RS-232, Master-Slave/Token-Passing over RS-485, ZigBee, and LonTalk.\n\nANSI/ASHRAE 135-2016 specifies 60 standard object types:\nBACnet Testing Laboratories (\"BTL\") was established by BACnet International to test products as per BACnet standard and support compliance testing and interoperability testing activities and consists of BTL Manager and the BTL working group (\"BTL-WG\").\nThe general activities of the BTL are:\nThe BTL also provides testing services through BACnet Laboratories. The BTL Managers and BTL working groups of BACnet International administer the test Laboratories. All BTL-recognized BACnet Test Organizations are ISO 17025 accredited.\n\nIn January, 2017, a new BTL certification program was announced. Under this program, the work of the BTL and WSPCert (the European BACnet certification body) is merged. This merger forms a single point of testing for both the BTL Mark and the Certificate of Conformance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1014025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014025", "title": "Blue roof", "text": "Blue roof\n\nA blue roof is a roof design that is explicitly intended to store water, typically rainfall. Blue roofs that are used for temporary rooftop storage can be classified as \"active\" or \"passive\" depending on the types of control devices used to regulate drainage of water from the roof. A number of blue roof pilot projects have been implemented around the United States. Active blue roofs for storm water detention using forecast integration were first proposed in 2008. Active blue roofs are sometimes referred to as \"automated roof runoff management systems\".\n\nRecent work on blue roofs have involved pilot projects using stormwater collection. Blue roofs can provide a number of benefits depending on design. These benefits include temporary storage of rainfall to mitigate runoff impacts, storage for reuse such as irrigation or cooling water makeup, or recreational opportunities. Blue roofs can include open water surfaces, storage within or beneath a porous media or modular surface, or below a raised decking surface or cover.\n\nA significant blue roof pilot project intended to evaluate the potential of the systems for mitigating combined sewer overflow impacts was conducted between 2010 and 2012 by the New York City Department of Environmental Protection. The NYCDEP blue-roof projects are the first to utilize a novel passive blue roof tray design which relies on the lateral transitivity of non-woven filter fabric for drawdown control in a full scale pilot. Monitoring of these systems has demonstrated their performance as an effective means for mitigation of peak flows and alteration of timing in combined sewer systems.\n\nBlue roofs are often privately owned, and make efficient use of the otherwise very limited space available in the urban core of a highly populated city.\n\nSome recreational blue roofs integrate rooftop waterplay areas that can also be used to irrigate a green roof, or to cool the roof of a building on hot days, in order to eliminate or at least reduce the HVAC load placed on mechanical refrigeration equipment.\n\nSome blue roofs utilize stored water for beneficial on-site purposes cooling of solar panels and irrigation of a green roof. One example of a blue roof that provide ancillary services was the winning entry (First Place, 10,000 Euro prize) in the 2004 Coram Sustainable Design Award, by Steve Mann.\n\nA different type of \"blue roof\" has been proposed by researchers at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, who researched a pigment used by the ancient Egyptians known as \"Egyptian blue.\" This color, derived from derived from calcium copper silicate, absorbs visible light, and emits light in the near-infrared range, helping keep roofs and walls cool.\n\n"}
{"id": "40133626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40133626", "title": "Bronx court system delays", "text": "Bronx court system delays\n\nExtensive media attention and public criticism has been directed at the Bronx's court system, due to delays in bringing cases to trial, which are seen by critics as a clear infringement of defendants' constitutional right to a speedy trial.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", the Bronx court system had 3,880 felony cases awaiting trial as of November 2013, of which 397 were older than two years. This accounted for over 47% of the total open felony cases older than two years in the New York City court system. Accused persons who are denied bail must remain in jail while awaiting trial, with some spending five years or more in pre-trial detention. Several explanations have been offered for the backlog of cases. One factor may be the economic condition of the Bronx, which is cumulatively the poorest of New York City's borough, thereby lacking \"political clout to stir outrage and force reform\". Some critics contend that high numbers of arrests in the borough, particularly for misdemeanor offenses, are the underlying source of the problem. Others believe that criminal attorneys deliberately delay trial proceedings, for example by routinely showing up late, or by employing time-wasting cross-examinations.\n\nIn January 2013, judges from neighboring court districts were enlisted to help work through the case backlog, in a strategy termed \"blockbuster\". New York State chief judge Jonathan Lippman was quoted as saying the extra personnel working Bronx cases would eliminate the backlog within six months. Although the number of cases settled or brought to trial did increase during this time, \"The New York Times\" reported that as of July 2013, the number of outstanding cases remained \"the largest in New York City — more than Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens and Staten Island combined.\"\n\nIn one case that received media attention, Michael Ikoli was charged with murder, accused of shooting two people at a roller-skating rink with a friend in 2004. He waited in Rikers Island for five years without a trial because of the backlog in the Bronx courts; it wasn't until October 2009 when the \"New York Daily News\" exposed the case as part of a story on the severe backlog of felony cases in the Bronx courts when his case was fast-tracked for trial, and in December 2009 he was acquitted of all charges when his trial ended. In May 2011, Ikoli was shot to death in the Bronx in a gang-related shooting.\n"}
{"id": "9453256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9453256", "title": "Chicago, Burlington &amp; Quincy Railroad Co. v. Krayenbuhl", "text": "Chicago, Burlington &amp; Quincy Railroad Co. v. Krayenbuhl\n\nChicago B. & Q.R. Co. v. Krayenbuhl 65 Neb. 899, 91 N.W. 880 (1902), was a case that established negligent liability on a railroad company.\n\nThe appellant maintained a railway turntable (a rotating platform with a track for turning a locomotive) near a publicly traveled path. The appellee, a 4 year old child of the Krayenbuhl family, discovered that the turntable was unlocked, climbed on it, and while playing on it with a group of children got his foot caught between the rails, which severed it at the ankle joint. \n\nThe Supreme Court of Nebraska held that it was negligent for Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad not to keep the turntable locked and guarded. They noted that the business of railroading is facilitated by the use of turntables, so it would go against the public good to require the appellant to invest so heavily in safeguards that it interfered with appellant's ability to use the turntables for their intended, beneficial use. However, the burden of keeping the turntable locked was so small that the danger of not doing so outweighed the burden.\n\n"}
{"id": "36939620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36939620", "title": "Circles of Sustainability", "text": "Circles of Sustainability\n\nCircles of Sustainability is a method for understanding and assessing sustainability, and for managing projects directed towards socially sustainable outcomes. It is intended to handle 'seemingly intractable problems' such as outlined in sustainable development debates. The method is mostly used for cities and urban settlements.\n\nCircles of Sustainability, and its treatment of the social domains of ecology, economics, politics and culture, provides the empirical dimension of an approach called 'engaged theory'. Developing Circles of Sustainability is part of larger project called 'Circles of Social Life', using the same four-domain model to analyze questions of resilience, adaptation, security, reconciliation. It is also being used in relation to thematics such as 'Circles of Child Wellbeing' (with World Vision).\n\nThe rationale for this new method is clear. As evidenced by Rio+20 and the UN Habitat World Urban Forum in Napoli (2012) and Medellin (2014), sustainability assessment is on the global agenda. However, the more complex the problems, the less useful current sustainability assessment tools seem to be for assessing across different domains: economics, ecology, politics and culture. For example, the Triple Bottom Line approach tends to take the economy as its primary point of focus with the domain of the environmental as the key externality. Secondly, the one-dimensional quantitative basis of many such methods means that they have limited purchase on complex qualitative issues. Thirdly, the size, scope and sheer number of indicators included within many such methods means that they are often unwieldy and resist effective implementation. Fourthly, the restricted focus of current indicator sets means that they do not work across different organizational and social settings—corporations and other institutions, cities, and communities. Most indicator approaches, such as the Global Reporting Initiative or ISO14031, have been limited to large corporate organizations with easily definable legal and economic boundaries. Circles of Sustainability was developed to respond to those limitations.\n\nThe method began with a fundamental dissatisfaction with current approaches to sustainability and sustainable development, which tended to treat economics as the core domain and ecology as an externality. Two concurrent developments provided impetus: a major project in Porto Alegre, and a United Nations’ paper called \"Accounting for Sustainability\", Briefing Paper, No. 1, 2008. The researchers developed a method and an integrated set of tools for assessing and monitoring issues of sustainability while providing guidance for project development. The method was then further refined through projects in Melbourne and Milwaukee, and through an ARC-funded cross-disciplinary project that partnered with various organizations including Microsoft Australia, Fuji Xerox Australia, the City of Melbourne, World Vision, UN-Habitat and most crucially Metropolis. In Canada, the \"Green Score City Index\" was inspired by studying the UN circle of sustainability. However, unlike this system, the Canadian index data-sets are focused on measuring the physical footprints of human activity and greenspace footprints which are less subjectivity than cultural and economic indicators.\n\nThe method is used by a series of global organizations including the United Nations Global Compact Cities Programme, The World Association of Major Metropolises, and World Vision to support their engagement in cities. It is also used by a number of cities across the world in different ways to manage major projects or to provide feedback on their sustainability profiles (e.g., Hyderabad, Johannesburg, Melbourne, New Delhi, São Paulo and Tehran). It is a method for understanding urban politics and urban planning, as well as for conducting sustainability analysis and profiling sustainable development.\n\nThe methodology is made available by UN Global Compact Cities Programme for its engagement with its more than 80 Signatory Cities. In particular, some of the 14 Innovating Cities in the programme have influenced the development of the Circles of Sustainability method through their management of major projects, some with intensity and others as a background feature. They use a cross-sectoral and holistic approach for developing a response to self-defined seemingly intractable problems.\n\nThe Vila Chocolatão project refers to the 2011 resettlement of approximately 1,000 residents of the inner-city Vila Chocolatão slum in Porto Alegre, Brazil. The resettlement project of Vila Chocolatão commenced in 2000 in response to an imminent eviction of the community, with community members seeking resources and support to resettle through the city of Porto Alegre's renown participatory budgeting system. The lengthy preparation to resettle was led by a local cross-sectoral network group, the Vila Chocolatão Sustainability Network. The group was initially instigated by the Regional Court, TRF4 and consisted of the Vila Chocolatão Residents Association, local government departments, federal agencies, non-government organisations and the corporate sector. The project was supported by the City of Porto Alegre through the municipality’s Local Solidarity Governance Scheme. In 2006, the Vila Chocolatao resettlement project was recognised as a pilot project for the then new Cities Programme cross-sectoral model with City Hall assembling a Critical Reference Group to identify critical issues and joint solutions to those issues involved in the resettlement.\n\nThis long-standing collaborative project has been successful in rehousing a whole community of slum dwellers, it has also effected a restructuring of how the city approaches slums. The project ensured sustainability was built into the relocation through changes such as setting up of recycling depots next to existing slums and developing a formal recycling sorting facility in the new site, Residencial Nova Chocolatão, linked to the garbage-collection process of the city (an example of linking the sub-domains of ‘emission and waste’ and ‘organization and governance’); and establishing a fully resourced early childhood centre in the new community. The Vila Chocolatão Sustainability Network group continues to meet and work with the community post the resettlement. This network-led model is now being utilized by the City of Porto Alegre with other informal settlements.\n\nIn 2009, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States of America, wanted to address the issue of water quality in the city. The Circles of Sustainability methodology became the basis for an integrated city project. In the period of the application of the method (2009–present) there has been a rediscovery of the value of water from an industry and broader community perspective.\n\nIn 2011, Milwaukee won the United States Water Prize given by the Clean Water America Alliance, as well as a prize from IBM Better Cities program worth $500,000. The community has also attracted some leading water treatment innovators and is establishing a graduate School of Freshwater Sciences at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.\n\nThe methodology was first used by Metropolis for \"Commission 2, 2012, Managing Urban Growth\". This Commission, which met across the period 2009–2011, was asked to make recommendations for use by Metropolis’s 120 member cities on the theme of managing growth. The Commission Report using the Circles of Sustainability methodology was published on the web in three languages—English, French and Spanish—and is used by member cities as a guide to practice.\n\nIn 2011, the research team were invited by Metropolis to work with the Victorian Government and the Cities Programme on one of their major initiatives. The methodology is central to the approach used by the ‘Integrated Strategic Planning and Public-Private Partnerships Initiative’ organized by Metropolis, 2012–2013 for Indian, Brazilian and Iranian cities. A workshop was held in New Delhi, 26–27 July 2012, and senior planners from New Delhi, Hyderabad and Kolkata used the two of the assessment tools in the Circles of Sustainability toolbox to map the sustainability of their cities as part of developing their urban-regional plans. Other cities to use the same tools have been Tehran (in relation to their mega-projects plan) and São Paulo (in relation to their macro-metropolitan plan).\n\nSince 2012, the Cities Programme and Metropolis have worked together to refine the 'Circles of Sustainability' method to use with their respective member cities. A Metropolis Taskforce was charged with further developing the method.\n\nIn 2011, \"The Economist\" invited Paul James (Director of the United Nations Global Compact Cities Programme) and Chetan Vedya (Director, National Institute of Urban Affairs, India) into a debate around the question of urban sustainability and metropolitan growth. It led to over 200 letters to the editor in direct response as well as numerous linked citations on other websites.\n\nIn 2011, recognising how much the two processes of urbanization and globalization were changing the landscape of poverty, World Vision decided to shift its orientation towards urban settings. Previously 80 per cent of its projects had been in small rural communities. The Circles of Sustainability method now underpins that reorientation and pilot studies are being conducted in India, South Africa, Lebanon, Indonesia and elsewhere, to refine the methodology for aid delivery in complex urban settings.\n\nThe Circles of Sustainability approach is explicitly critical of other domain models such as the triple bottom line that treat economics as if it is outside the social, or that treat the environment as an externality. It uses a four-domain model - economics, ecology, politics and culture. In each of these domains there are 7 subdomains.\n\nThe economic domain is defined as the practices and meanings associated with the production, use, and management of resources, where the concept of ‘resources’ is used in the broadest sense of that word.\n\nThe ecological domain is defined as the practices and meanings that occur across the intersection between the social and the natural realms, focusing on the important dimension of human engagement with and within nature, but also including the built-environment.\n\nThe political is defined as the practices and meanings associated with basic issues of social power, such as organization, authorization, legitimation and regulation. The parameters of this area extend beyond the conventional sense of politics to include not only issues of public and private governance but more broadly social relations in general.\n\nThe cultural domain is defined as the practices, discourses, and material expressions, which, over time, express continuities and discontinuities of social meaning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "647655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647655", "title": "Clean Water Act", "text": "Clean Water Act\n\nThe Clean Water Act (CWA) is the primary federal law in the United States governing water pollution. Its objective is to restore and maintain the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the nation's waters by preventing point and nonpoint pollution sources, providing assistance to publicly owned treatment works for the improvement of wastewater treatment, and maintaining the integrity of wetlands. It is one of the United States' first and most influential modern environmental laws. As with many other major U.S. federal environmental statutes, it is administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), in coordination with state governments. Its implementing regulations are codified at 40 C.F.R. Subchapters D, N, and O (Parts 100-140, 401-471, and 501-503).\n\nTechnically, the name of the law is the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. The first FWPCA was enacted in 1948, but took on its modern form when completely rewritten in 1972 in an act entitled the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972. Major changes have subsequently been introduced via amendatory legislation including the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the Water Quality Act of 1987.\n\nThe Clean Water Act does not directly address groundwater contamination. Groundwater protection provisions are included in the Safe Drinking Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Superfund act.\n\nContamination of drinking water supplies can not only occur in the source water but also in the distribution system. Sources of water contamination include naturally occurring chemicals and minerals (arsenic, radon, uranium), local land use practices (fertilizers, pesticides, concentrated feeding operations), manufacturing processes, and sewer overflows or wastewater releases. Some examples of health implications of water contamination are gastrointestinal illness, reproductive problems, and neurological disorders. Infants, young children, pregnant women, the elderly, and people whose immune systems are compromised because of AIDS, chemotherapy, or transplant medications, may be especially susceptible to illness from some contaminants.\n\nGastrointestinal disorders include such conditions as constipation, irritable bowel syndrome, hemorrhoids, anal fissures, perianal abscesses, anal fistulas, perianal infections, diverticular diseases, colitis, colon polyps and cancer. In general, children and the elderly are at highest risk for gastrointestinal disease. In a study investigating the association between drinking water quality and gastrointestinal illness in the elderly of Philadelphia, scientists found water quality 9 to 11 days before the visit was negatively associated with hospital admissions for gastrointestinal illness, with an interquartile range increase in turbidity being associated with a 9% increase). The association was stronger in those over 75 than in the population aged 65–74. This example is a small reflection of residents of the United States remain at risk of waterborne gastrointestinal illness under current water treatment practices.\n\nReproductive problems refer to any illness of the reproductive system. New research by Brunel University and the University of Exeter strengthens the relationship between water pollution and rising male fertility problems. Study identified a group of chemicals that act as anti-androgens in polluted water, which inhibits the function of the male hormone, testosterone, reducing male fertility.\n\nNeurological disorders are diseases of the brain, spine and the nerves that connect them. The new study of more than 700 people in California’s Central Valley found that those who likely consumed contaminated private well water had a higher rate of Parkinson’s. The risk was 90 percent higher for those who had private wells near fields sprayed with widely used insecticides. Unlike water supplies in large cities, private wells are mostly unregulated and are not monitored for contaminants. Many of them exist at shallow depths of less than 20 yards, and some of the crop chemicals used to kill pests and weeds can flow into ground water. Therefore, private wells are likely to contain pesticides, which can attack developing brains (womb or infancy), leading to neurological diseases later in life. A study led by UCLA epidemiology professor Beate Ritz suggests that \"people with Parkinson’s were more likely to have consumed private well water, and had consumed it on average 4.3 years longer than those who did not have the disease.\"\nAll waters with a \"significant nexus\" to \"navigable waters\" are covered under the CWA; however, the phrase \"significant nexus\" remains open to judicial interpretation and considerable controversy. The 1972 statute frequently uses the term \"navigable waters\" but also defines the term as \"waters of the United States, including the territorial seas.\" Some regulations interpreting the 1972 law have included water features such as intermittent streams, playa lakes, prairie potholes, sloughs and wetlands as \"waters of the United States.\" In 2006, in \"Rapanos v. United States\", a plurality of the US Supreme Court held that the term \"waters of the United States\" \"includes only those relatively permanent, standing or continuously flowing bodies of water 'forming geographic features' that are described in ordinary parlance as 'streams[,]... oceans, rivers, [and] lakes.'\"\n\nThe CWA introduced the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), which is a permit system for regulating point sources of pollution. Point sources include:\nPoint sources may not discharge pollutants to surface waters without a permit from the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). That system is managed by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in partnership with state environmental agencies. EPA has authorized 47 states to issue permits directly to the discharging facilities. The CWA also allows tribes to issue permits, but no tribes have been authorized by EPA. In the remaining states and territories, the permits are issued by an EPA regional office. (See Titles III and IV.)\n\nIn previous legislation, Congress had authorized states to develop water quality standards, which would limit discharges from facilities based on the characteristics of individual water bodies. However, those standards were to be developed only for interstate waters, and the science to support that process (i.e. data, methodology) was in the early stages of development. That system was not effective, and there was no permit system in place to enforce the requirements. In the 1972 CWA, Congress added the permit system and a requirement for technology-based effluent limitations.\n\nThe 1972 CWA created a new requirement for technology-based standards for point source discharges. The EPA develops those standards for categories of dischargers, based on the performance of pollution control technologies without regard to the conditions of a particular receiving water body. The intent of Congress was to create a \"level playing field\" by establishing a basic national discharge standard for all facilities within a category, using a \"Best Available Technology.\" The standard becomes the minimum regulatory requirement in a permit. If the national standard is not sufficiently protective at a particular location, then water quality standards may be employed.\n\nThe 1972 act authorized continued use of the water quality-based approach, but in coordination with the technology-based standards. After application of technology-based standards to a permit, if water quality is still impaired for the particular water body, then the permit agency (state or EPA) may add water quality-based limitations to that permit. The additional limitations are to be more stringent than the technology-based limitations and would require the permittee to install additional controls. Water quality standards consist of four basic elements: 1) Designated uses; 2) Water quality criteria; 3) Antidegradation policy and 4) General policies.\n\nAccording to water quality standard regulations, federally recognized tribes/nations and states are required to specify appropriate water uses. Identification of appropriate water uses takes into consideration the usage and value of public water supply, protection of fish, wildlife, recreational waters, agricultural, industrial and navigational water ways. Suitability of a water body is examined by states and tribes/nations usages based on physical, chemical, and biological characteristics. States and tribes/nations also examine geographical settings, scenic qualities and economic considerations to determine fitness of designated uses for water bodies. If those standards indicate designated uses to be less than those currently attained, states or tribes are required to revise standards to reflect the uses thaf are actually being attained. For any body of water with designated uses that do not include \"fishable/swimmable\" target use that is identified in section 101(a)(2) of CWA, a \"Use Attainability Analysis\" must be conducted. Every three years, such bodies of water must be re-examined to verify if new information is available that demand a revision of the standard. If new information is available that specify “fishable/swimmable” uses can be attained, the use must be designated.\n\nFederally recognized Indigenous Nations and states protect designated areas by adopting water quality criteria that the EPA publishes under §304(a) of the CWA, modifying the §304(a) criteria to reflect site-specific conditions or adopting criteria based on other scientifically defensible methods. Water quality criteria can be numeric criteria that toxicity causes are known for protection against pollutants. A narrative criterion is water quality criteria which serves as a basis for limiting the toxicity of waste discharges to aquatic species. A biological criterion is based on the aquatic community which describes the number and types of species in a water body. A nutrient criterion solely protects against nutrient over enrichment, and a sediment criterion describes conditions of contaminated and uncontaminated sediments in order to avoid undesirable effects.\n\nWater quality standards consist of an anti-degradation policy that requires states and tribes to establish a three-tiered anti-degradation program. Anti-degradation procedures identify steps and questions that need to be addressed when specific activities affect water quality. Tier 1 is applicable to all surface waters. It maintains and protects current uses and water quality conditions to support existing uses. Current uses are identified by showing that fishing, swimming, and other water uses have occurred and are suitable since November 28, 1975. Tier 2 maintains and protects water bodies with existing conditions that are better to support CWA 101(a)(2) \"fishable/swimmable\" uses. Tier 3 maintains and protects water quality in outstanding national resource waters (ONRWs), which are the highest quality waters in the US with ecological significance.\n\nStates and Indian tribes adopt general policies pertaining to water quality standards that are subject to review and approval by the EPA. Those provisions on water quality standards include mixing zones, variance, and low flow policies. Mixing zone policy is defined area surrounding a point source discharge where sewage is diluted by water. Methodology of mixing zone procedure determines the location, size, shape and quality of mixing zones. Variance policy temporarily relax water quality standard and are alternatives to removing a designated use. States and tribes may include variance as part of their water quality standard. Variance is subject to public review every three years and warrant development towards improvement of water quality. Low Flow policy pertains to states and tribes water quality standards that identify procedures applied to determining critical low flow conditions.\n\nCongress exempted some water pollution sources from the point source definition in the 1972 CWA and was unclear on the status of some other sources. Such sources were therefore considered to be nonpoint sources that were not subject to the permit program.\n\nAgricultural stormwater discharges and irrigation return flows were specifically exempted from permit requirements. Congress, however, provided support for research, technical and financial assistance programs at the U.S. Department of Agriculture to improve runoff management practices on farms. \"See\" Natural Resources Conservation Service.\n\nStormwater runoff from industrial sources, municipal storm drains, and other sources were not specifically addressed in the 1972 law. The EPA declined to include urban runoff and industrial stormwater discharges in the NPDES program and so was sued by an environmental group. In 1977, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that stormwater discharges must be covered by the permit program.\n\nResearch conducted starting in the late 1970s and 1980s indicated that stormwater runoff was a significant cause of water quality impairment in many parts of the US. In the early 1980s, the EPA conducted the Nationwide Urban Runoff Program (NURP) to document the extent of the urban stormwater problem. The agency began to develop regulations for stormwater permit coverage but encountered resistance from industry and municipalities, and there were additional rounds of litigation. The litigation was pending when Congress considered further amendments to the CWA in 1986.\n\nIn the Water Quality Act of 1987, Congress responded to the stormwater problem by defining industrial stormwater dischargers and municipal separate storm sewer systems (often called \"MS4\") as point sources, and requiring them to obtain NPDES permits, by specific deadlines. The permit exemption for agricultural discharges continued, but Congress created several programs and grants, including a demonstration grant program at the EPA to expand the research and development of non point controls and management practices.\n\nCongress created a major public works financing program for municipal sewage treatment in the 1972 CWA. A system of grants for construction of municipal sewage treatment plants was authorized and funded in Title II. In the initial program, the federal portion of each grant was up to 75 percent of a facility's capital cost, with the remainder financed by the state. In subsequent amendments Congress reduced the federal proportion of the grants and in the 1987 WQA transitioned to a revolving loan program in Title VI. Industrial and other private facilities are required to finance their own treatment improvements on the \"polluter pays\" principle.\n\nCongress passed the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2014 (WIFIA) to provide an expanded credit program for water and wastewater infrastructure projects, with broader eligibility criteria than the previously-authorized revolving fund unter CWA Title VI. Pursuant to WIFIA, EPA established its Water Infrastructure and Resiliency Finance Center in 2015 to help local governments and municipal utilities design innovative financing mechanisms, including public–private partnerships. Congress amended the WIFIA program in 2015 and 2016.\n\nThis Act has six titles.\n\nTitle I includes a \"Declaration of Goals and Policy\" and various grant authorizations for research programs and pollution control programs. Some of the programs authorized by the 1972 law are ongoing (e.g. section 104 research programs, section 106 pollution control programs, section 117 Chesapeake Bay Program) while other programs no longer receive funds from Congress and have been discontinued.\n\nTo assist municipalities in creating or expanding sewage treatment plants, also known as publicly owned treatment works (POTW), Title II established a system of construction grants. The 1972 CWA provided that federal funds would support 75% of project costs, with state and local funds providing the remaining 25%. In 1981 Congress reduced the federal funding proportion for most grants to 55%. \n\nThe construction grant program was replaced by the Clean Water State Revolving Fund in the 1987 WQA (\"see\" Title VI), although some local utilities continued to receive \"special purpose project grants\" directly from Congress, through a budgetary procedure known as \"earmarking.\"\n\nSection 301 of the Act prohibits discharges to waters of the U.S. except with a permit. \n\nUnder the 1972 act EPA began to issue technology-based standards for municipal and industrial sources.\n\nTo date, the effluent guidelines and categorical pretreatment standards regulations have been published for 59 categories and apply to approximately 40,000 facilities that discharge directly to the nation's waters, 129,000 facilities that discharge to POTWs, and construction sites. These regulations are responsible for preventing the discharge of almost 700 billion pounds of pollutants each year. EPA has updated some categories since their initial promulgation and has added new categories.\n\nThe secondary treatment standards for POTWs and the effluent guidelines are implemented through NPDES permits. (See Title IV.) The categorical pretreatment standards are typically implemented by POTWs through permits that they issue to their industrial users.\n\nWater quality standards (WQS) are risk-based requirements which set site-specific allowable pollutant levels for individual water bodies, such as rivers, lakes, streams and wetlands. States set WQS by designating uses for the water body (e.g., recreation, water supply, aquatic life, agriculture) and applying water quality criteria (numeric pollutant concentrations and narrative requirements) to protect the designated uses. An antidegradation policy is also issued by each state to maintain and protect existing uses and high quality waters.\n\nIf a state fails to issue WQS, EPA is required to issue standards for that state.\n\nWater bodies that do not meet applicable water quality standards with technology-based controls alone are placed on the section 303(d) list of water bodies not meeting standards. Water bodies on the 303(d) list require development of a Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL). A TMDL is a calculation of the maximum amount of a pollutant that a water body can receive and still meet WQS. The TMDL is determined after study of the specific properties of the water body and the pollutant sources that contribute to the non-compliant status. Generally, the TMDL determines load based on a Waste Load Allocation (WLA), Load Allocation (LA), and Margin of Safety (MOS) Once the TMDL assessment is completed and the maximum pollutant loading capacity defined, an implementation plan is developed that outlines the measures needed to reduce pollutant loading to the non-compliant water body, and bring it into compliance. Over 60,000 TMDLs are proposed or in development for U.S. waters in the next decade and a half.\n\nFollowing the issuance of a TMDL for a water body, implementation of the requirements involves modification to NPDES permits for facilities discharging to the water body to meet the WLA allocated to the water body (see Title IV).\n\nAs of 2007, approximately half of the rivers, lakes, and bays under EPA oversight were not safe enough for fishing and swimming. The development of WQS and TMDL is a complex process, both scientifically and legally, and it is a resource-intensive process for state agencies.\n\nThe primary mode of informing the quality of water of rivers, lakes, streams, ponds, estuaries, coastal waters and wetlands of the U.S. is through the \"National Water Quality Inventory Report.\" Water quality assessments are conducted pursuant to water quality standards adopted by states and other jurisdictions (territories, interstate commissions and tribes). The report is conveyed to Congress as a means to inform Congress and the public of compliance with quality standards established by states, territories and tribes. The assessments identify water quality problems within the states and jurisdictions, list the impaired and threatened water bodies, and identify non-point sources that contribute to poor water quality. Every two years states must submit reports that describe water quality conditions to EPA with a complete inquiry of social and economic costs and benefits of achieving goals of the Act. The report is organized into two major sections; Section 1 shows national assessment of each type of water body, with causes and sources identified. Section 2 summarizes recommendations on improvement of water resource management.\n\nUnder section 309, EPA can issue administrative orders against violators, and seek civil or criminal penalties when necessary.\nStates that are authorized by EPA to administer the NPDES program must have authority to enforce permit requirements under their respective state laws.\n\nMilitary bases, national parks and other federal facilities must comply with CWA provisions.\n\nSection 316 requires standards for thermal pollution discharges, as well as standards for cooling water intake structures (e.g., fish screens). These standards are applicable to power plants and other industrial facilities.\n\nThe 1987 amendments created the Nonpoint Source Management Program under CWA section 319. This program provides grants to states, territories and Indian tribes to support demonstration projects, technology transfer, education, training, technical assistance and related activities designed to reduce nonpoint source pollution. Grant funding for the program averaged $210 million annually for Fiscal Years 2004 through 2008.\n\nStates are required to certify that discharges authorized by federal permits will not violate the state's water quality standards.\n\nThe NPDES permits program is authorized by CWA section 402. The initial permits issued in the 1970s and early 1980s focused on POTWs and industrial wastewater—typically \"process\" wastewater and cooling water where applicable, and in some cases, industrial stormwater. The 1987 WQA expanded the program to cover stormwater discharges explicitly, both from municipal separate storm sewer systems (MS4) and industrial sources. The MS4 NPDES permits require regulated municipalities to use Best Management Practices to reduce pollutants to the \"Maximum Extent Practicable.\"\n\nPOTWs with combined sewers are required to comply with the national \"Combined Sewer Overflow Control Policy,\" published by EPA in 1994. The policy requires municipalities to make improvements to reduce or eliminate overflow-related pollution problems. About 860 communities in the US have combined sewer systems, serving about 40 million people.\n\nNon-stormwater permits typically include numeric effluent limitations for specific pollutants. A numeric limitation quantifies the maximum pollutant load or concentration allowed in the discharge, e.g., 30 mg/L of biochemical oxygen demand. Exceeding a numeric limitation constitutes a violation of the permit, and the discharger is subject to fines as laid out in section 309. Facilities must periodically monitor their effluent (i.e., collect and analyze wastewater samples), and submit Discharge Monitoring Reports to the appropriate agency, to demonstrate compliance. Stormwater permits typically require facilities to prepare a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan and implement best management practices, but do not specify numeric effluent limits and may not include regular monitoring requirements. Some permits cover both stormwater and non-stormwater discharges. NPDES permits must be reissued every five years. Permit agencies (EPA, states, tribes) must provide notice to the public of pending permits and provide an opportunity for public comment.\n\nIn 2012, EPA estimated that there are over 500,000 stormwater permittees. This number includes permanent facilities such as municipal (POTW, MS4) and industrial plants, and construction sites, which are temporary stormwater dischargers.\n\nAfter passage of the CWA in 1972, a controversy arose as to its application to agriculture and certain other activities. The Act was interpreted by some to place restrictions on virtually all placement of dredged materials in wetlands and other waters of the United States, raising concern that the federal government was about to place all agricultural activities under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE). For opponents of the Act, section 404 had, as a result of this concern, become a symbol of dramatic over-regulation. When Congress considered the 1977 CWA Amendments, a significant issue was to ensure that certain agricultural activities and other selected activities, could continue without the government’s supervision—in other words, completely outside the regulatory or permit jurisdiction of any federal agency.\n\nThe 1977 amendments included a set of six section 404 exemptions. For example, totally new activities such as construction of farm roads, Sec. 1344(f)(1)(E), construction of farm or stock ponds or irrigation ditches, and minor agricultural drainage, Sec. 1344(f)(1)(A), all are exempted by Statute. Section 1344(f)(1)(C), which exempts discharge of dredged material “for the purpose of. . . the maintenance of drainage ditches.” All of these exemptions were envisioned to be self-executing, that is not technically requiring an administrative no-jurisdiction determination. One such example was the maintenance of agricultural drainage ditches. Throughout the hearing process, Congressmen of every environmental persuasion repeatedly stated that the over $5 Billion invested in drainage facilities could be maintained without government regulation of any kind. Senator Edmund Muskie, for example, explained that exempt activities such as agricultural drainage would be entirely unregulated. Other exemptions were granted as well, including exemptions for normal farming activities.\n\nAlthough Congress envisioned a set of self-executing exemptions, it has become common for landowners to seek no-jurisdiction determinations from the USACE. A landowner who intends to make substantial investments in acquisition or improvement of land might lawfully proceed with exempt activity, a permit not being required. The problem is that if the landowner's assumptions were incorrect and the activity later determined not to be exempt, the USACE will issue a cease and desist order. Obtaining an advanced ruling provides some level of comfort that the activities will have been deemed conducted in good faith.\n\nBecause some of the six exemptions involved new activities, such as minor drainage and silviculture (the clearing of forests by the timber industry), Congress recognized the need to impose some limitations on exemptions. Consequently, Congress placed the so-called recapture clause limitation on these new project exemptions. Under section 404(f)(2), such new projects would be deprived of their exemption if all of the following three characteristics could be shown:\n\nTo remove the exemption, all of these requirements must be fulfilled—the discharge, the project purpose of bringing an area into a use to which it was not previously subject, and the impairment or reduction of navigable waters.\n\nUnder sections 301 and 502 of the Clean Water Act, any discharge of dredged or fill materials into \"waters of the United States,\" including wetlands, is forbidden unless authorized by a permit issued by the USACE pursuant to section 404. Essentially, all discharges of fill or dredged material affecting the bottom elevation of a jurisdictional water of the U.S. require a Department of the Army (DA) permit from USACE. These permits are an essential part of protecting streams and wetlands, which are often filled by land developers. Wetlands are vital to the ecosystem in filtering streams and rivers and providing habitat for wildlife.\n\nMountaintop removal mining requires a section 404 permit when soil and rock from the mining operation is placed in streams and wetlands (commonly called a \"valley fill\"). Pollutant discharges from valley fills to streams also requires an NPDES permit.\n\nThere are two main types of wetlands permits: general permits and individual permits. General permits change periodically and cover broad categories of activities, and require the permittee to comply with all stated conditions. General permits (such as the Nationwide Permits) are issued for fill activities that will result in minimal adverse effects to the environment. Individual permits are utilized for actions that are not addressed by a general permit, or that do not meet the conditions of a General Permit. In addition, individual permits typically require more analysis than do the general permits, and usually require much more time to prepare the application and to process the permit.\n\nWhen the USACE processes an application for an Individual Permit, it must publish/issue a public notice describing the proposed action described in the permit application. Although the Corps District Engineer makes the decision to grant a permit, the USEPA Administrator may veto a permit if it is not reasonable. Before making such a decision, however, USEPA must consult with the USACE. A DA permit typically expires after five years.\n\nThe 1987 WQA created a program for management of biosolids (sludge) generated by POTWs. The Act instructed EPA to develop guidelines for usage and disposal of sewage sludge or biosolids. The EPA regulations: (1) Identify uses for sewage sludge, including disposal; (2) Specify factors to be taken into account in determining the measures and practices applicable to each such use or disposal (including publication of information on costs); and (3) Identify concentrations of pollutants which interfere with each such use or disposal. EPA created an Intra-Agency Sludge Task Force to aid in developing comprehensive sludge regulations that are designed to do the following: (1) Conduct a multimedia examination of sewage sludge management, focusing on sewage sludge generated by POTWs; and (2) develop a cohesive Agency policy on sewage sludge management, designed to guide the Agency in implementing sewage sludge regulatory and management programs.\n\nThe term \"biosolids\" is used to differentiate treated sewage sludge that can be beneficially recycled. Environmental advantages of sewage sludge consist of, application of sludge to land due to its soil condition properties and nutrient content. Advantages also extend to reduction in adverse health effects of incineration, decreased chemical fertilizer dependency, diminishing greenhouse gas emissions deriving from incineration and reduction in incineration fuel and energy costs. Beneficial reuse of sewage sludge is supported in EPA policies: the 1984 \"Beneficial Reuse Policy\" and the 1991 \"Inter-agency Policy on Beneficial Use of Sewage Sludge,\" with an objective to reduce volumes of waste generated. Sewage sludge contains nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorus but also contains significant numbers of pathogens such as bacteria, viruses, protozoa and eggs of parasitic worms. Sludge also contains more than trace amounts of organic and inorganic chemicals. Benefits of reusing sewage sludge from use of organic and nutrient content in biosolids is valuable source in improving marginal lands and serving as supplements to fertilizers and soil conditioners. Extension of benefits of sludge on agriculture commodities include increase forest productivity, accelerated tree growth, re-vegetation of forest land previously devastated by natural disasters or construction activities. Also, sewage sludge use to aid growth of final vegetative cap for municipal solid waste landfills is enormously beneficial. Opposing benefits of sludge water result from high levels of pathogenic organisms that can possibly contaminate soil, water, crops, livestock, and fish. Pathogens, metals, organic chemical content and odors are cause of major health, environmental and aesthetic factors. Sludge treatment processes reduce the level of pathogens which becomes important when applying sludge to land as well as distributing and marketing it. Pollutants of sewage sludge come from domestic wastewater, discharge of industrial wastewater, municipal sewers and also from runoffs from parking lots, lawns and fields that were applied fertilizers, pesticides and insecticides.\n\nThe quality of sewage sludge is controlled under section 405(d), where limitations are set with methods of use or disposal for pollutants in sludge. EPA, under section 405(d)(3), established a containment approach to limit pollutants instead of numerical limitations. This methodology is more reasonable than numerical limitations and includes design standards, equipment standards, management practice, and operational standards or combination of these. Limits on sewage sludge quality allows treatment works that generate less contaminated pollutants and those that do not meet the sludge quality standards for use and disposal practice must clean up influent, improve sewage sludge treatment and/or select another use of disposal method. EPA has set standards for appropriate practices of use and disposal of biosolids in order to protect public health and the environment, but choice of use or disposal practices are reserved to local communities. Listed under section 405(e) of CWA, local communities are encouraged to use their sewage sludge for its beneficial properties instead of disposing it.\n\nStandards are set for sewage sludge generated or treated by publicly owned and privately owned treatment works that treat domestic sewage and municipal wastewater. Materials flushed in household drains through sinks, toilets and tubs are referred to as domestic wastewater and include components of soaps, shampoos, human excrement, tissues, food particles, pesticides, hazardous waste, oil and grease. These domestic wastewaters are treated at the source in septic tanks, cesspools, portable toilets, or in publicly/privately owned wastewater treatment works. Alternately, municipal wastewater treatments consist of more levels of treatment that provide greater wastewater cleanup with larger amounts of sewage sludge. Primary municipal treatment remove solids that settle at the bottom, generating more than 3,000 liters of sludge per million liters of wastewater that is treated. Primary sludge water content is easily reduced by thickening or removing water and contains up to 7% solids. Secondary municipal treatment process produces sewage sludge that is generated by biological treatment processes that include activated sludge systems, trickling filters, and other attached growth systems. Microbes are used to break down and convert organic substances in wastewater to microbial residue in biological treatment processes. This process removes up to 90% of organic matter and produces sludge that contains up to 2% solids and has increased generated volumes of sludge. Methods of use and disposal of sewage sludge include the following: Application of sludge to agricultural and non-agricultural lands; sale or give-away of sludge for use in home gardens; disposal of sludge in municipal landfills, sludge-only landfills, surface disposal sites and incineration of sludge. Managing quality of sewage sludge not only involves wastewater reduction and separation of contaminated waste from non-contaminants but also pretreatment of non-domestic wastewater. Pretreatment does not thoroughly reduce pollutants level and therefore communities have to dispose rather than use sludge.\n\nAny U.S. citizen may file a citizen suit against any person who has allegedly violated an effluent limitation regulation or against the EPA Administrator if the EPA Administrator failed to perform any non-discretionary act or duty required by the CWA.\n\nThe CWA includes an employee (\"whistleblower\") protection provision. Employees in the U.S. who believe they were fired or suffered adverse action related to enforcement of the CWA may file a written complaint with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.\n\nThe Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) program was authorized by the 1987 WQA. This replaced the municipal construction grants program, which was authorized in the 1972 law under Title II. In the CWSRF, federal funds are provided to the states and Puerto Rico to capitalize their respective revolving funds, which are used to provide financial assistance (loans or grants) to local governments for wastewater treatment, nonpoint source pollution control and estuary protection.\n\nThe fund provides loans to municipalities at lower-than-market rates. The average interest rate was 1.4 percent nationwide in 2017, compared to an average market rate of 3.5 percent. In 2017, CWSRF assistance totaling $7.4 billion was provided to 1,484 local projects across the country.\n\nDuring the 1880s and 1890s, Congress directed USACE to prevent dumping and filling in the nation's harbors, and the program was vigorously enforced. Congress first addressed water pollution issues in the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899, giving the Corps the authority to regulate most kinds of obstructions to navigation, including hazards resulting from effluents. Portions of this law remain in effect, including Section 13, the so-called Refuse Act. In 1910, USACE used the act to object to a proposed sewer in New York City, but a court ruled that pollution control was a matter left to the states alone. Speaking to the 1911 National Rivers and Harbors Congress, the chief of the Corps, Brigadier General William H. Bixby, suggested that modern treatment facilities and prohibitions on dumping \"should either be made compulsory or at least encouraged everywhere in the United States.\"\n\nSome sections of the 1899 act have been superseded by various amendments, including the 1972 CWA, while other notable legislative predecessors include:\n\nWhen EPA first opened its doors in 1970, the agency had weak authority to protect U.S. waters, lacking the legal power to write effluent guidelines and possessing only general authority to require secondary treatment from industrial dischargers.\n\nExecutive Order 12898 (1994) states “... each Federal agency shall make achieving environmental justice part of its mission by identifying and addressing, as appropriate, disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects of its programs, policies, and activities on minority, low-income, and indigenous populations.” The order is also intended to advocate nondiscrimination in federal programs that influence the environment and public health, and aims to provide low-income, minority, and indigenous communities access to public information and participation.\n\n\nIn May 2015 EPA released a new rule on the definition of \"waters of the United States\" (\"WOTUS\") and the future enforcement of the act. Thirteen states sued, and on August 27 U.S. Chief District Judge for North Dakota Ralph R. Erickson issued a preliminary injunction blocking the regulation in those states. In a separate lawsuit, on October 9 a divided Sixth Circuit appeals court stayed the rule’s application nationwide. Congress then passed a joint resolution under the Congressional Review Act overturning the WOTUS rule, but President Barack Obama vetoed the measure.\n\nOn February 28, 2017, President Donald Trump signed documents directing EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers to review and rewrite the Obama administration's \"Clean Water Rule,\" which would clarify the WOTUS definition. The agencies were ordered to reassess the rule consistent with promoting economic growth and minimizing regulatory uncertainty.\n\nThe Sixth Circuit appeals court stay was overturned on January 22, 2018 when the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that challenges to the 2015 rule must be filed in United States district courts. EPA then formally suspended the 2015 regulation and announced plans to issue a new version later in 2018.\n\n\nTo date, the water quality goals stated by Congress in the 1972 act have not been achieved by American society:\nMore than half of U.S. stream and river miles continue to violate water quality standards. Surveys of lakes, ponds and reservoirs indicated that about 70 percent were impaired (measured on a surface area basis), and a little more than 70 percent of the nation’s coastlines, and 90 percent of the surveyed ocean and near coastal areas were also impaired. The reasons for the impairment vary by location; major sources are agriculture, industry and communities (typically through urban runoff). Some of these pollution sources are difficult to control through national regulatory programs.\n\nHowever, since the passage of the 1972 act, the levels of pollution in the United States have experienced a dramatic decrease. The law has resulted in much cleaner waterways than before the bill was passed. Agriculture, industry, communities and other sources continue to discharge waste into surface waters nationwide, and many of these waters are drinking water sources. In many watersheds nutrient pollution (excess nitrogen and phosphorus) has become a major problem. It is argued in a 2008 paper that the Clean Water Act has made extremely positive contributions to the environment, but is in desperate need of reform to address the pollution problems that remain.\n\nA 2017 economic study finds that \"most types of water pollution declined [over the period 1962-2001], though the rate of decrease slowed over time... Our finding of decreases in most pollutants implies that the prevalence of such violations was even greater before the Clean Water Act.\" Several studies have estimated that the costs of the CWA (including the expenditures for the Title II construction grants program) are higher than the benefits. An EPA study had similar findings, but acknowledged that several kinds of benefits were unmeasured. (\"See\" Cost–benefit analysis.)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43406517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43406517", "title": "Copyright law of Sri Lanka", "text": "Copyright law of Sri Lanka\n\nThe basic legal instrument governing copyright law in Sri Lanka is Part II (ss. 5–27) of the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003 (Sinhala: ; Tamil: ) replacing Part II (ss. 6–24) of the \"Code of Intellectual Property Act, No. 52 of 1979\".\n\nAccording to section 6 original intellectual creations in the literary, artistic and scientific domain are protected as works, in particular\nincluding transformations and modifications of works as well as collections (s. 7).\n\nExcluded are (s. 8)\n\nForeign works are covered by section 26 subsection (2).\n\nThe owner of copyright has the exclusive right to carry out or to authorize the following acts in relation to the work (economic rights, s. 9):\nProtected is the entire work as well as a substantial part thereof.\n\nThe original owner of these economic rights is the author (exception: works for hire), in the case of an audiovisual work the producer (s. 14).\n\nThe owner of a copyright may\n\nFurthermore, the author of a work enjoys the following moral rights (s. 10):\n\nActs of fair use include \"inter alia\" (s. 12)\n\nThe economic and moral rights are protected during the lifetime of the author and for a further period of 70 years from the date of his death (\"p.m.a.\"); a work of applied art is protected for 25 years from the date of the making of the work (s. 13).\n\nRelated rights include the \"rights of performers\" (ss. 17, 19), the \"rights of producers of sound recordings\" (ss. 18, 19) and the \"rights of broadcasting organisations\" (s. 20), each of them having a duration of 50 years (limitations: s. 21).\n\nWhen copyright is infringed, the Court has power and jurisdiction to grant injunctions, to order the impounding and destruction of illegal copies and to award damages (ss. 22, 170).\n\nCopyright infringement may also lead to criminal charges (s. 178; accessories: s. 196; limitation: s. 202).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2833060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2833060", "title": "Demonstrative evidence", "text": "Demonstrative evidence\n\nDemonstrative evidence is evidence in the form of a representation of an object. This is, as opposed to, real evidence, testimony, or other forms of evidence used at trial.\n\nExamples of demonstrative evidence include photos, x-rays, videotapes, movies, sound recordings, diagrams, forensic animation, maps, drawings, graphs, animation, simulations, and models. It is useful for assisting a finder of fact (fact-finder) in establishing context among the facts presented in a case. To be admissible, a demonstrative exhibit must “fairly and accurately” represent the real object at the relevant time. See Federal Rules of Evidence 901, 902, and 1001-1004 for an example from United States law.\n\nOther examples of demonstrative evidence include case specific medical exhibits, colorized diagnostic films, general anatomy and surgery exhibits. These forms of demonstrative evidence are commonly used as a personal injury lawyer resource. Demonstrative evidence with dramatic impact can maximize the value of a case by effectively depicting catastrophic/traumatic injuries, complex surgical procedures, surgical mistakes or summarize injuries suffered by an individual. These examples of demonstrative evidence are used for settlement conferences, arbitration, mediation, medical expert depositions and trial presentations.\n\nDemonstrative evidence is an effective aid in infringement litigation.\n\nWhether prosecuting an infringer or defending a patent, originally filled patent drawings which are a part of most patent applications, can play an imperative part in any upcoming litigation.\nIf the original patent drawings are not complete, accurate and exact, then the resulting output for litigation graphics is unreliable and could even hurt a case. \n\nThere are many ways to convert patent drawings into effective litigation graphics.\nHere are a few ways:\n\nA patent drawing can be made visually transparent and overplayed onto an opposing image to show likeness or differences. \n\nColor can be applied to elements of the original patent drawings and the same colors on similar elements of an opposing images to highlight likeness.\n\nA front view from the application can be placed alongside a front view of the opposing invention with additions outlined in color to emphasize differences\n\nA process flow chart from a utility patent application can be used alongside a flow chart of the opposing party with an insert between the two to indicate differences or similarities in process.\n\nCallout information on a patent drawing can clarify key elements of the invention and emphasize important features.\n\nDrawings from a patent application can be used in PowerPoint to create a simple tutorial using animation with color arrows, overlays and voice over to explain an invention.\n\nOriginal patent drawings can be used as a basis to create complex 3D animations. Operation, technical procedures, incompatibilities between inventions and moving parts of an invention can be clearly presented. Furthermore, animations can indicate time, motion or speed, compare alternative theories or simplify highly complex data.\n\nThere are endless ways to manipulate original patent drawings to make compelling litigation graphics, each circumstance unique based on the setting, the invention, the desired outcome and budget. \n\nUsing original patent drawings as a starting point can save cost of having to start from scratch. \n\nIn many patent lawsuits filed, a substantial amount is spent on demonstrative evidence. \nWIPO Magazine stated, “according to a recent study by PricewaterhouseCoopers over 5,000 patent lawsuits – an all-time record – were filed, each costing on average around US$2.8 million.” Those numbers are for 2012; it is unlikely that costs have come down. \n\nSee the following link for WIPO article “What Place for Patent Drawings”\nIP Litigation: What Place for Patent Drawings?\n\nBefore photographs and other demonstrative evidence, lawyers relied on purely testimonial or substantive evidence. Melvin Belli and Earl Rogers helped change that by introducing more demonstrative evidence. Scientific evidence emerged in the 1960s.\n\nIn American jurisprudence, demonstrative evidence, like any other kind of evidence must be relevant. At this point the proponent of the demonstrative evidence can either try to get the evidence admitted into the official record of the case or can choose to use the evidence as merely a prop. If the proponent of the evidence wants to have the evidence included in the official record of the case, the proponent will first ask for the evidence to be marked by the court for identification purposes. After the evidence is marked for identification, the proponent of the demonstrative evidence must lay a foundation. It is at this time that the relevancy of the demonstrative evidence is usually challenged. Laying of a foundation explains how the demonstrative evidence relates to the facts of the case and establishes the evidence's authenticity. Once the foundation is laid, the proponent may ask to officially move the piece of evidence into the record where it is marked as a full exhibit. If the evidence is marked as a full exhibit the jury may refer to the evidence during deliberations and in most jurisdictions the jury may examine the evidence during deliberations. If the evidence is not marked as a full exhibit, the jury cannot do these things. As a matter of courtesy, the proponent of the demonstrative evidence generally shows the piece of evidence to the opposing party before marking it for identification purposes. In criminal cases certain kinds of demonstrative evidence are subject to mandatory disclosure under the case law governing discovery. See Brady v. Maryland.\n\nExamples of demonstrative evidence from popular culture include their use in these motion pictures:\n\n\n\nRonald J. Rychlak, \"Real and Demonstrative Evidence: Applications and Theory\" (Lexis-Nexis, 2nd ed. 2002)\n"}
{"id": "15124552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15124552", "title": "Duvet day", "text": "Duvet day\n\nA duvet day is a formal allowance of time off given by some employers, most commonly in the United Kingdom and United States. It differs from holiday allowance in that no prior notice is needed. Employees receive an allocation of days where if they do not want to go to work for any reason they can use a duvet day. The name is a reference to the item of bedding.\n\nDuvet days were originally given to employees by UK company August One Communications in 1997, and the idea has grown in popularity as some companies aim to address the changing work-life climate where people work longer hours. It can be stipulated formally in a contract of employment and is considered part of the remunerations package along with holiday allowance. The term has also since become used by people to reference taking a day off work for no normally accepted reason (such as mild sickness, grievance or holiday) even if they have no official duvet day entitlement with their employer.\n\nIn the Indian subcontinent, this is historically called a casual leave. Employees usually are sanctioned a fixed number of days off (usually 12 per year for government and 8-12 for private employees). These days can be taken with or without planning. Since these leave days could not be accumulated or carried over into the next year, they would expire at the year end. This created a tendency to utilize all the left over casual leave in November and December. The Indian casual leave has been around for more than 50 years.\n"}
{"id": "6899192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6899192", "title": "European Parliamentary and Local Elections (Pilots) Act 2004", "text": "European Parliamentary and Local Elections (Pilots) Act 2004\n\nThe European Parliamentary and Local Elections (Pilots) Act 2004 is in Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (c 2). \n\nThe Act allowed an all-postal ballot to be piloted in four regions of the United Kingdom: North East, the East Midlands, Yorkshire and the Humber and the North West, at the local and European Parliament elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "25872370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25872370", "title": "Export of cryptography", "text": "Export of cryptography\n\nThe export of cryptography is the transfer from one country to another of devices and technology related to cryptography.\nIn the early days of the Cold War, the United States and its allies developed an elaborate series of export control regulations designed to prevent a wide range of Western technology from falling into the hands of others, particularly the Eastern bloc. All export of technology classed as 'critical' required a license. CoCom was organized to coordinate Western export controls.\n\nCurrently, many countries, notably those participating in the Wassenaar Arrangement, have similar restrictions.\n\n"}
{"id": "338435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338435", "title": "Filicide", "text": "Filicide\n\nFilicide is the deliberate act of a parent killing their own child. The word \"filicide\" derives from the Latin words \"filius\" meaning \"son\" or \"filia\" meaning daughter, and the suffix \"-cide\" meaning to kill, murder, or cause death. \n\n\"Filicide\" may refer both to the parent who killed his or her child, as well as to the criminal act that the parent committed.\n\nA 1999 United States Department of Justice study concluded that between 1976 and 1997 in the United States, mothers were responsible for a higher share of children killed during infancy, while fathers were more likely to have been responsible for the murders of children aged eight or older.\n\nFurthermore, 52% of the children killed by their mothers (maternal filicide) were male, while 57% of the children killed by their fathers (paternal filicide) were male. Parents were responsible for 61% of child murders under the age of five. \nSometimes, there is a combination of murder and suicide in filicide cases. On average, according to FBI statistics, 450 children are murdered by their parents each year in the United States.\n\nDr. Phillip Resnick, who published research on filicide in 1969, stated that there were five main motives for filicide, including \"altruistic,\" \"fatal maltreatment,\" \"unwanted child,\" and \"spousal revenge.\"\n\nAltruistic killings occur because the parent believes the world is too cruel for the child or because the child is enduring suffering (whether this is actually occurring or not). In fatal maltreatment killings, the goal is not always to kill the child but death may occur anyway, and Munchausen syndrome by proxy is in that category. Spousal revenge killings are killings of children done to indirectly harm a domestic partner; they do not frequently occur. Glen Carruthers, author of \"Making sense of spousal revenge filicide,\" argued that those who engage in spousal revenge killings see their own children as objects.\n\nIn the United States, homicide is in the top five causes of deaths of children, and in the top three causes of death in children aged between 1 and 4 years old. A direct correlation has been identified between child abuse rates and child homicide rates. Research suggests children who are murdered by their parent(s) were physically abused victims prior to death. This is often seen as an indicator of domestic violence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3680924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3680924", "title": "Framework agreement", "text": "Framework agreement\n\nIn the context of negotiations, a framework agreement is an agreement between two parties that recognizes that the parties have not come to a final agreement on all matters relevant to the relationship between them, but have come to agreement on enough matters to move forward with the relationship, with further details to be agreed to in the future.\n\nIn the context of procurement, a framework agreement is an agreement between one or more businesses or organisations, \"the purpose of which is to establish the terms governing contracts to be awarded during a given period, in particular with regard to price and, where appropriate, the quantity envisaged\".\n\nIn international law, such an agreement between countries or groups can acknowledge that they cannot reach full agreement on all issues, but are willing to memorialize a structure by which some disagreements can be resolved.\n\nIn describing the effort to reach an agreement between Israel and Palestine, Senator George J. Mitchell explained:\n\nEntering into a framework agreement can shift the lawmaking power from the states to a plenary body, and can shift the basis for forming consent to new norms and standards reached through their negotiations. The practice of entering into framework agreements originated in the 1950s with an agreement regarding asylum between Colombia and Peru.\n\nA number of international accords are characterized as framework agreements:\n\n\nNon-international framework agreements include:\n\nPublic contracting authorities may enter into framework agreements with one or more businesses, which prescribe the terms and conditions which would apply to any subsequent contract and make provision for selection and appointment of a contractor by reference directly to the agreed terms and conditions or by holding a competition inviting only the partners to the framework agreement to submit specific commercial proposals.\n"}
{"id": "51771230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51771230", "title": "Hedge Fund Standards Board", "text": "Hedge Fund Standards Board\n\nThe Standards Board for Alternative Investments (SBAI), formerly known as the Hedge Fund Standards Board, is an international standard-setting body for the alternative investment industry and sets the voluntary standard of best practices and practices endorsed by its members. Its primary role is to be the custodian of the Alternative Investment Standards (formerly known as \"the Standards\"), which are designed to create a \"framework of transparency, integrity and good governance\" in the way the hedge fund industry operates.\nThe SBAI originated in June 2007, when a group of leading alternative investment managers formed the Hedge Fund Working Group to develop industry standards in areas such as disclosure, valuation, risk management, governance, and shareholder conduct.. Founding firms included Marshall Wace, Cheyne Capital Management, Man Group, and CQS. In January 2008, the working group was established as a nonprofit, called the Hedge Fund Standards Board (HFSB). Its primary purpose was to oversee what's called the \"Standards\" (now known as the \"Alternative Investment Standards\"). At its inception, the board had 14 leading hedge fund managers and was chaired by Sir Andrew Large to develop the standards. By 2016 it had almost 200 hedge fund managers and institutional investors as members; the total assets under management of all members was $3 trillion. In 2014, the board became an affiliate member of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and in 2016 established mutual observer relationship with the International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds.\n\nOn July 2011, Dame Amelia Fawcett was appointed Chair of the SBAI, replacing Andrew Large. In 2014, SBAI becomes an affiliate member of International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and in 2016 SBAI and International Forum of Sovereign Wealth Funds (IFSWF) agreed to engage in mutual observership.\n\nIn September 2017 it announced that it was changing its name from HFSB to the SBAI or Standards Board for Alternative Investments (SBAI) to \"reflect the evolution of the industry\". Specifically, it noted that \"managers increasingly offer their investment strategies through a variety of vehicles beyond 'hedge funds', including liquid alternatives, regulated funds, co-investment vehicles, drawdown funds, and managed accounts\" while at the same time moving away from \"hedge fund\" as a term in order to \"classify and integrate a diverse array of alternatives strategies by underlying asset class, return profile, market exposure, or liquidity\".\n"}
{"id": "16861471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16861471", "title": "INTO University Partnerships", "text": "INTO University Partnerships\n\nINTO University Partnerships is a British limited-liability partnership that specializes in setting up joint ventures with universities. It focuses on the provision of foundation courses for international students, including English language, especially English for Academic Purposes. So far, INTO operates 22 international study centres within leading university partners in the United Kingdom, North America and China. The centres offer courses that enable students to prepare for university degrees, learn English, or study at postgraduate level. A research report commissioned by NAFSA: Association of International Educators identified INTO University Partnerships as one of the eight third-party providers offerings pathway programs for international students in the United States. \n\nINTO University Partnerships was founded in 2005 and is chaired by Andrew Colin, who had previously set up Study Group International, an education business he sold to the Daily Mail Group, and Embassy CES, a chain of language schools.\nSince 2006, INTO has launched 23 joint ventures with a range of universities in the United Kingdom, North America and China. Under the joint venture model, the university remains responsible for educational quality, while INTO provides the marketing infrastructure, finance and specialist management experience. This business model was developed in a political climate that favours public-private partnerships. Bill Rammell, Minister of State in the Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills, in response to a question from Colchester MP Bob Russell, welcomed such innovation in higher education.\n\nIn October 2008, INTO opened a £35 million six-storey building at INTO UEA, with 415 en-suite study-bedrooms and classroom space for 600 students. New buildings also opened in Exeter in 2011 and Newcastle in September 2012. INTO Newcastle University, built at a cost of £74million, was launched alongside on-campus student accommodation, the first in the university's history. In early 2013, INTO University Partnerships announced an equity investment from Leeds Equity Partners of £66m in the group for a 25 percent stake in the business. This investment completed the first stage of INTO’s funding plans, which are aimed at providing universities with access to significant external capital to fund innovation and capacity building in the higher education sector. Two years later, INTO's first partnership with the University of East Anglia, INTO University of East Anglia won a Queen's Award for Enterprise (International Trade) in April 2016. INTO also formed a new partnership with Washington State University in the same year. \n\n\nAdditionally, it is an international foundation partner for the:\n\n\n\nThrough five greater regional directorates, INTO employs over 100 full-time, market-based staff in 31 offices across 17 countries and invests £4 million each year in training, monitoring and performance-managing its counseling organizations. Every year, INTO helps almost 14,000 students from 120 countries and territories achieve their dream of studying overseas. In 2011, INTO conducted more than 300 training sessions with 600 organisations, including large-scale familiarisation trips to launch new partnerships. All recruitment activity is planned centrally, but coordinated through university-based joint venture groups.\n\n\nIn INTO's first three years, the company created 435 new jobs. They currently have around 1,800 members of staff across the group who speak over 20 languages.\n\nIn their submission to the Home Affairs Select Committee on student visas in 2011, INTO said it had \"welcomed and educated almost 21,000 students from more than 138 countries and territories to the UK and provide direct employment for close to 1,350 people in the UK alone\". Commencements at INTO study centres have now surpassed 41,000 with an average of 90% student satisfaction.\n\nINTO has been in preliminary discussion with several other British universities, the majority of which have decided not to form a partnership, including Essex, Goldsmiths and Westminster. Essex elected to restructure its own international operations, and Goldsmiths to suspend its internationalisation plans. In contrast, the Senate of Queen's University in Belfast, Northern Ireland, voted in favour of an INTO partnership in April 2009, which led to the setting-up of INTO Queen's University of Belfast.\n\nIn July 2008, INTO announced that it had signed its first agreement in the United States, to operate a foundation year programme for Oregon State University. OSU said that it had long wanted to expand the number of international students, and turned to INTO for its worldwide infrastructure and expertise in recruitment; some staff, on the other hand, expressed concerns over working conditions. The programme was due to start in autumn 2009 with 150–200 students. A local news source, OregonLive, stated that the new venture would \"replace the English Language Institute, a self-sustaining program that has helped international students learn English for 43 years,\" a move that filled its former director with concern. The Provost of OSU, Sabah Randhawa, who has led the university's transformational development, expressed satisfaction with the partnership.\n\n, INTO has established partnerships with 23 universities across the UK, North America and China and plans to increase its network to 30 partnerships by 2020.\n\nIn May 2018, it was reported that owner and founder Andrew Colin is seeking a buyer for his INTO University Partnerships. He is seeking to sell INTO for $400.1 million USD, and has hired Deutche Bank to look at strategic options after receiving a number of takeover approaches. Andrew Colin is the majority shareholder of INTO, with the remainder in the hands of senior staff and Leeds Equity Partners (25% stake). \n\nSeveral British universities have been approached by INTO and some have decided not to proceed. For example, in a survey of staff at Essex, 90% rejected the proposed partnership. This objection is compounded by two things: that INTO does not recognise unions, and that Andrew Colin acknowledges that the rates offered are likely to be worse.\n\nThe International Centre for English Language Studies (ICELS) at Oxford Brookes University strongly opposed INTO's approach, and the University and College Union claimed credit for this opposition influencing the university's decision. The university stated that it would not go ahead with the project because it required such a large real estate commitment. The University of Essex, following questions from UCU, explained the benefits of working with INTO, but in October 2008 decided not to enter a partnership.\n\nIn February 2007, the \"Times Higher Education\" published an article featuring the UCU's dispute of guarantees that INTO offered to existing Newcastle staff. Andrew Colin rejected the UCU criticism, saying in 2007, \"Give me three years and I will show you it is possible to create secure, well-paid jobs in EAP, and more of them,\" and rejected the similarity of his business model to private finance initiatives (PFI).\n\nAndrew Colin said of the lecturers' union in 2008, \"I've asked for a dialogue with the UCU, but they won't talk to us. The union causes a lot of anxiety and talk about standards and job losses, they don't mention the fact that we are creating jobs and that the university is responsible for academic standards.\"\n\nIn July 2008, INTO threatened UCU with a legal suit for defamation, in response to a union briefing entitled \"Into the unknown.\" The union removed the document from their website.\n\nSince 2008, INTO Giving has raised more than US $1,000,000 (UK £770,000) for children’s education and teachers in Asia, Africa, the Americas, the Middle East and Europe. Funds are raised through INTO student, faculty and employee fundraising events and donations, and are matched penny for penny by INTO Founder and INTO Giving Trustee Andrew Colin.\n\nINTO Giving has helped thousands of children and their teachers through 30 projects in 20 countries across five continents. The charity’s projects have included building new and refurbishing rundown schools (Cambodia, China, Ghana, Malawi, Zambia, and in Lebanon for Syrian refugee children), psychological counselling services for Syrian refugee children, opening IT centres and libraries (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Zambia), providing school meals and classroom supplies (Thailand) and refurbishing teacher accommodation (Ghana).\n\nSince 2016, INTO Giving has prioritized supporting girls’ education and refugee schoolchildren.\n\nINTO Giving is UK registered charity No 1126262, a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt charity in the US and is governed by a Board of Trustees.\n\nINTO reached the parliamentary record when MP Austin Mitchell asked why it had not filed financial records with Companies House, as it is legally obliged to do. Andrew Colin said in the \"Times Higher Education\" that the delay in submitting accounts was a \"simple mistake.\" He also revealed that the first set of submitted accounts showed a loss of £1.7m, but stated that the company would be beyond the break-even point by the third year.\n\nAccording to the Civil Aviation Authority's database on registered civil aircraft, a subsidiary, INTO Air, has, in the past, featured a registered Swiss-built Pilatus PC-12 turbo-prop aircraft, with registration G-INTO. An article in \"General Aviation\" magazine quoted the cost of these aircraft as starting at $4m and states that Andrew Colin ordered a second aircraft for delivery in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42411352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42411352", "title": "Independent Election Commission (Afghanistan)", "text": "Independent Election Commission (Afghanistan)\n\nThe Independent Election Commission of Afghanistan is the national electoral commission of Afghanistan, which is responsible for administering and supervising elections and referenda under the Constitution of Afghanistan.\n"}
{"id": "9594675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9594675", "title": "Indian termination policy", "text": "Indian termination policy\n\nIndian termination was the policy of the United States from the mid-1940s to the mid-1960s. It was shaped by a series of laws and policies with the intent of assimilating Native Americans into mainstream American society. Assimilation was not new. The belief that indigenous people should abandon their traditional lives and become \"civilized\" had been the basis of policy for centuries. But what was new was the sense of urgency, that with or without consent, tribes must be terminated and begin to live \"as Americans\". To that end, Congress set about ending the special relationship between tribes and the federal government. The intention was to grant Native Americans all the rights and privileges of citizenship, reduce their dependence on a bureaucracy whose mismanagement had been documented, and eliminate the expense of providing services for native people.\n\nIn practical terms, the policy ended the U.S. government's recognition of sovereignty of tribes, trusteeship over Indian reservations, and exclusion of state law applicability to native persons. From the government's perspective Native Americans were to become taxpaying citizens, subject to state and federal taxes as well as laws, from which they had previously been exempt.\n\nFrom the native standpoint, Northern Cheyenne former U.S. Senator from Colorado Ben Nighthorse Campbell said of assimilation and termination in a speech delivered in Montana:\n\nThe policy for termination of tribes collided with the Native American peoples' own desires to preserve native identity, reflected in an activism that increased after World War II and survived through the anti-collectivism era of Joseph McCarthy. The termination policy was changed in the 1960s and rising activism resulted in the ensuing decades of restoration of tribal governments and increased Native American self-determination.\n\nTermination began with a series of laws directed at dismantling tribal sovereignty. From June 1940 until September 1950, six laws were passed that gave states criminal or limited-criminal jurisdiction over tribes and reservations within those states. In 1949, the Hoover Commission Report, recommending integration of native peoples into mainstream society, and the 1952 House Report (HR No. 2503), investigating the Bureau of Indian Affairs, both portrayed termination as cost effective and benign in its effects.\n\nThe House concurrent resolution 108 of 1953 announced the federal policy of termination and called for the immediate ending of the Federal relationship with a selected group of tribes.\nThe resolution established that Congress would pass termination acts on a tribe by tribe basis. Most such acts included the cessation of federal recognition and all the federal aid that came along with that designation. Between 1953 and 1964, the government terminated recognition of more than 100 tribes and bands as sovereign dependent nations. These actions affected more than 12,000 Native Americans or 3% of the total Native American population. Approximately of trust land was removed from protected status during these years. Much was sold by individuals to non-Natives.\n\nThe termination of these tribes ended federal government guardianship of and recognition of those tribal governments and US jurisdiction of tribal lands. In addition to ending the tribal rights as sovereign nations, the policy terminated federal support of most of the health care and education programs, utility services, and police and fire departments available to Indians on reservations. Given the considerable geographic isolation of many reservations and inherent economic problems, not many tribes had the funds to continue such services after termination was implemented. The tribes initially selected for termination had been considered groups who were the most successful in the United States, in some cases, because of natural resources controlled by their reservations.\n\nA few tribes mounted legal challenges to maintain tribal government and the trust relationship with the federal government. Through the Indian Claims Commission, tribes had the ability to file claims against the government for breaches of treaty or grievances. The five year dead-line for making a claim, August 1951, caused many tribes to file in the months preceding the end of the registration period. In some instances, pending claims cases with complex legal issues aided the tribes in preventing termination, while in others, tribes were taken advantage of by government agents and their associates.\n\nFederal policy up until the 1940s had mainly held that the Federal Government had sole jurisdiction over Indians. The Kansas Act of 1940 was \"trial\" legislation granting state jurisdiction over most criminal offenses committed by or against Indians on Indian reservations. If successful, it was to be implemented elsewhere. Kansas had been exercising jurisdiction over offenses, including those listed in the Indian Major Crimes Act, and their authority to do that was called into question. To clarify the state's authority, they proposed the act to fill a perceived gap in jurisdiction. None of the four federally recognized tribes living in Kansas: Potawatomi, Kickapoo, Sac & Fox, and Iowa, had tribal courts to deal with offenses, and state jurisdiction did not extend to Indian lands. The law, passed on 8 June 1940, as Title 25 U.S. Code § 217a ch. 276, 54 Stat. 249 gave Kansas courts jurisdiction to try persons for conduct that violates state law, even if the federal government is also able to try the offense under federal jurisdiction.\n\nAlmost immediately, similar statutes were passed in North Dakota, Iowa and New York, granting state jurisdiction over most offenses committed by or against Indians in Indian country.\n\nIn 1943 the United States Senate commissioned a survey of Indian conditions. It indicated that living conditions on the reservations were extremely poor. The Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and its bureaucracy were found to be at fault for the troubling problems due to extreme mismanagement.\nCongress concluded that some tribes no longer needed federal 'protection' and would be better off with more independence, rather than having them depend on and be poorly supervised by the BIA. They also thought the tribes should be assimilated to mainstream American society. Goals of termination included freeing the Indians from domination by the BIA, repealing laws that discriminated against Indians, and ending federal supervision of Indians. Senator Arthur V. Watkins of Utah, the strongest proponent of termination, equated it with the Emancipation Proclamation, which had declared the freedom of all slaves in the territory of the Confederate States of America.\n\nIn 1953, the United States House of Representatives and the Senate announced their support for the termination policy, with House Concurrent Resolution 108:\n\nOn 31 May 1946, Congress enacted \"An Act to confer jurisdiction on the State of North Dakota over offenses committed by or against Indians on the Devils Lake Indian Reservation\", [Public Law 394] 60 Stat. 229. In language reminiscent of the Kansas Act of 1940, the law granted the State of North Dakota jurisdiction for criminal offenses occurring on lands occupied by the Spirit Lake Tribe, but retained the right of the federal government for jurisdiction on offenses against federal law.\n\nIn 1945, earnest discussion began on creating an Indian Claims Commission. The idea had been circulating for years but had never gained much momentum. However, in the wake of termination, it took on new life. Policymakers saw that settling claims would become the means to speed along the process of ending \"Indian-identity\" and move tribe members into the broader society. Simultaneously it would eliminate the need of the government to continue serving as tribal guardian, or at the very least allow the government to reduce \"appropriations for tribes in proportion to the size of their claim settlements\".\n\nOn 13 August 1946 the Indian Claims Commission Act of 1946, Pub. L. No. 79-726, ch. 959, passed. Its purpose was to settle for all time any outstanding grievances or claims the tribes might have against the U.S. for treaty breaches, unauthorized taking of land, dishonorable or unfair dealings, or inadequate compensation. Claims had to be filed within a five-year period. Most of the 370 complaints that were submitted were filed at the approach of the 5-year deadline in August 1951.\n\nThe life of the Commission was extended but eventually Congress terminated it on 30 September 1978; it transferred outstanding claims to the United States Court of Federal Claims. The final case, \"Pueblo of San Ildefenso v. United States\", was finally resolved in 2006.\n\nOn 30 June 1948, Congress enacted \"An Act to confer jurisdiction on the State of Iowa over offenses committed by or against Indians on the Sac and Fox Indian Reservation\", [Public Law 846] 62 Stat. 1161. In language reminiscent of the Kansas Act of 1940, the law granted the State of Iowa jurisdiction for criminal offenses occurring on lands occupied by the Sac and Fox Tribe of the Mississippi in Iowa, but retained the right of the federal government for jurisdiction on offenses against federal law.\n\nOn 2 July 1948 Congress enacted \"An Act to confer jurisdiction on the State of New York with respect to offenses committed on Indian reservations within such State\", [Public Law 881] 62 Stat. 1224. The language was virtually identical to the Kansas, North Dakota and Iowa statutes, with two important differences. It covered all reservations lands within the state and prohibited the deprivation of hunting and fishing rights which may have been guaranteed to \"any Indian tribe, band, or community, or members thereof\". It further prohibited the state from requiring tribal members to obtain fish and game licenses.\n\nOn 5 October 1949 Congress enacted \"An Act to confer jurisdiction on the State of California over the lands and residents of the Agua Caliente Indian Reservation in said State, and for other purposes\", [Public Law 322] 63 Stat. 705, which stated that \"on and after January 1, 1950, all lands located on the Agua Caliente Indian Reservation in the State of California, and the Indian residents thereof, shall be subject to the laws, civil and criminal, of the State of California\". The law also made provisions for the tribe and the Secretary of the Interior to negotiate easements for city improvements, thus it did not terminate tribal status.\n\nWithin two years, Congress was reviewing a second piece of legislation with regard to New York, to grant the state civil as well as criminal jurisdiction over Indians and tribes. During congressional hearings on the law, tribes strongly opposed the passage, fearful that states would deprive them of their reservations. The State of New York disavowed any intention to break up or deprive tribes of their reservations and asserted that they \"did not have the ability to do so\".\n\nOn September 13, 1950, Congress enacted \"An Act to confer jurisdiction on the courts of the State of New York with respect to civil actions between Indians or to which Indians are parties\", [Public Law 785] 64 Stat. 845, granted the courts of New York authority to settle civil disputes between Indians or Indians and others within the State. It allowed the tribes to preserve customs, prohibited taxation on reservations, and reaffirmed hunting and fishing rights. It also prohibited the state from enforcing judgments regarding any land disputes or applying any State Laws to tribal lands or claims prior to the effective date of the law 13 September 1952.\n\nHouse Concurrent Resolution 108 of 1953 was a formal statement issued on August 1, 1953 by the United States Congress announcing the official federal policy of termination. The resolution called for the immediate termination of the Flathead, Klamath, Menominee, Potawatomi, and Turtle Mountain Chippewa, as well as all tribes in the states of California, New York, Florida, and Texas. Termination of a tribe meant the immediate withdrawal of all federal aid, services, and protection, as well as the end of reservations. Individual members of terminated tribes were to become full United States citizens and have the benefits and obligations of any other United States citizens. The resolution also called for the Interior Department to identify quickly more tribes who appeared ready for termination in the near future.\n\nA January 21, 1954 memo by the Department of the Interior, reviewing the effects of Resolution 108, stated that bills to terminate 66,000 Indians ( of the total population) were under consideration by Congress. In addition to the above list, the memo sets forth bill provisions for the terminations of the Iroquois Confederation of Six Nations, Seneca, and the Oneida Tribe of Wisconsin (formerly of New York); the Seminole Tribe of Florida; the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of Texas; a Kansas bill covering the Potawatomi, the Kickapoo, the Sac and Fox, and the Iowa Tribe; and 41 California Rancherias.\n\nA memo dated January 19, 1955 for the BIA issued by the Department of the Interior indicates additional terminations are being reviewed in proposed legislation for four Indian communities of southern Minnesota, including the Lower Sioux Community in Redwood and Scott counties, the New Upper Sioux Community in Yellow Medicine County, the Prairie Island Community in Goodhue County, and about 15 individuals living on restricted tracts in Yellow Medicine County.\n\nPublic Law 280, passed in 1953, gave State governments the power to assume jurisdiction over Indian reservations, which had previously been excluded from state jurisdiction. It immediately granted the state criminal and civil jurisdiction over Indian populations in California, Nebraska, Minnesota, Oregon, and Wisconsin. Special clauses prevented this law from being invoked on the Red Lake Reservation in Minnesota and the Warm Springs Reservation in Oregon. After being admitted as a state in 1958, Alaska was added to the list of covered states where termination would be the goal. Public Law 280 also allowed any state to assume jurisdiction over Indian lands by a statute or an amendment to the state constitution. This law made both the states and Native Americans unhappy: the former because they had new responsibilities without any increase in funding to support additional staff and supplies, the latter because they were subject to new state laws.\n\nThe federal goal in implementing P.L. 280 was two-fold: 1) to fill the jurisdictional gap resulting from the native communities' lack of independent formal judicial systems, which had resulted in a general perception of lawlessness in their communities and 2) to assimilate native peoples and their tribes into the cultures of their neighbors by shifting the financial burden of prosecuting crimes in Indian Country to their respective states.\n\nThe main effect of Public Law 280 was to disrupt the relationship between the federal government and the Indian tribes. Previously the tribes had been regulated directly by the federal government. In \"Worcester v. Georgia\" (1832), the Supreme Court had ruled that state laws cannot be enforced on Indian land. While this preserved a kind of sovereignty and independence for tribes on reservations, in other ways they depended on a complex bureaucracy for services.\n\nIn 1955, Nevada extended state jurisdiction over public offenses \"committed by or against Indians in the areas of Indian country\" and determined that Indian customs and traditions which were inconsistent with any State law would not be given full force and effect in civil actions. Montana enacted legislation covering criminal offenses for the Flathead Reservation. Washington (state) passed a law in 1957 allowing tribes to voluntarily go under state jurisdiction and in 1963 assumed at least partial jurisdiction on all reservations within the state. In 1963, Idaho made provisions for tribes to be able to come under full jurisdiction of the State or operate with concurrent jurisdiction between Indian country and the State.\n\nAs part of the Indian Termination Policy, The Indian Relocation Act of 1956, was passed. It was a federal law encouraging Native Americans, who lived on or near Indian reservations to relocate to urban areas for greater employment opportunities.\n\nIt is estimated that between the 1950s and 1980s, as many as 750,000 Native Americans migrated to the cities, some as part of the relocation program, others on their own. By the 2000 census, the urban Indian population was 64% higher than it had been in the pre-termination era of the 1940s.\n\nIn 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson proposed ending termination, building partnerships between tribal governments and the United States, and fostering tribal self-determination and self-development, though the proposal never passed. Subsequent presidents followed this informal approach until 1988, when House Concurrent Resolution 108 was formally abandoned.\n\nOf the more than one hundred tribes terminated during this era, many regained federal recognition. The tribes achieved this through long court battles, which for some tribes took decades and exhausted large amounts of money.\n\nSome tribes, like the Choctaw and Seneca, were able to delay termination long enough to have it cancelled before implementation. Other tribes were marked for termination, like the Cold Springs, Middletown, and Montgomery Creek Rancherias of California and the Wyandotte Tribe of Oklahoma but, due to errors in process, were not successfully terminated. Some tribes such as the Oneida Nation of Wisconsin and Stockbridge-Munsee Community pursued federal litigation to halt termination. Still others, though marked for termination, fought the process and prevented laws from coming out of committee or reaching the floor for a vote.\n\nTribal leaders played key roles in getting their cases heard by the United States Congress, through the political process, and by the Supreme Court in suits and appeals. The tribes garnered publicity by creating resistance groups. These both publicly protested the termination policy, and fought political and court battles in Washington for restoration of tribal sovereignty or other goals.\n\nTribes which were terminated but regained their status as federally recognized sovereign states include:\n\nOther tribes are still attempting to gain federal recognition, such as the Colfax Todds Valley Consolidated Tribe of California, Mishewal Wappo Indians of Alexander Valley of California, Miwok Tribe of the El Dorado Rancheria of California, Mission Creek Reservation of California, Mono Indians of the Strathmore Rancheria of California, Nisenan of the Nevada City Rancheria of Northern California, Strawberry Valley Band of Pakan'yani Maidu, Tsi Akim Maidu of the Taylorsville Rancheria of California, and the Mixed Bloods of the Ute Indian Tribe of the Uintah and Ouray Reservation, The Salinan Tribe in California.\n\nThe Lumbee have been recognized as an American Indian tribe by the State of North Carolina since 1885. In 1956, the U.S. Congress also recognized the Lumbee as an American Indian tribe but denied federal Indian benefits. The 1956 Lumbee Act blocked the BIA from fully recognizing the Lumbee and withheld the full benefits of federal recognition from the tribe. Efforts are currently underway to pass federal legislation that will grant full recognition.\n\nThe Chinook Indian Nation was terminated and has been fighting for restoration. In 2001 the US Congress endorsed restoring four bands of the Chinook Indian Nation: the Cathlamet (Oregon), Clatsop (Oregon), Wahkiakum (Washington) and Lower Columbia Chinook (Washington), but reversed the decision in 2002. An appeal is in process.\n\nThe Brothertown Indians of Wisconsin were the first tribe in the US to accept United States citizenship in 1839 and have their communal land allocated to individual households, in order to prevent removal further west. In a 2012 final determination on the Brothertown petition for federal recognition, the Department of the Interior determined that since Congress granted them citizenship which terminated their tribal status, only Congress could restore the tribe's federal recognition. They are still attempting to gain restoration.\n\nBy the early 1960s, some federal leaders began opposing the implementation of any more termination measures, although the administration of President John F. Kennedy did oversee some of the last terminations. The last two terminations occurred in the 1960s, those of the Ponca Tribe of Nebraska, legally began in 1962—after Kennedy signed the order, at the urging of Secretary of the Interior Stewart Udall—and culminated in 1966; and that of the Tiwa Indians of Ysleta, Texas which transferred federal authority to the State of Texas in 1968. Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard Nixon changed federal policy, encouraging Indian self-determination instead of termination.\n\nSome tribes resisted termination by filing civil lawsuits. The litigation lasted until 1980, when the issue made its way to the U.S. Supreme Court. The 1974 Boldt Decision was upheld by the Supreme Court in 1980, recognizing that tribes retained treaty rights for fishing and hunting, including the right to conduct such activities off the reservation and without state regulation.\n\nActivism in the 1960s led to the founding of several Native American rights organizations, such as the American Indian Movement (AIM), and other organizations that helped protect the rights of Indians and their land. In 1975, Congress implicitly rejected the termination policy by passing the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, which increased tribal control over reservations and helped with funding to build schools closer to reservations. On January 24, 1983, President Ronald Reagan issued an American Indian policy statement that supported explicit repudiation of the termination policy.\n\nTermination, although often accompanied with pressure and coercion, was considered \"voluntary\" and required tribal consent. Some of the tribes in this category may have had a formal termination agreement approved, but they were successful at warding off termination until repudiation, or terms of their agreement were unmet. Other tribes in this category were approved for termination, but were successful in testifying before Congress that they should not be terminated.\n\nBeginning in 1953, a Federal task force began meeting with the tribes of the Six Nations. Despite tribal objections, legislation was introduced into Congress for termination. The proposed legislation involved more than 11,000 Indians of the Iroquois Confederation and was divided into two separate bills. One bill dealt with the Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga and Tuscarora tribes and the other dealt with the Seneca (see ).\n\nThe arguments the Six Nations made in their hearings with committees were that their treaties showed that the United States recognized that their lands belonged to the Six Nations, not the United States and that \"termination contradicted any reasonable interpretation that their lands would not be claimed or their nations disturbed\" by the federal government. The bill for the Iroquois Confederation died in committee without further serious consideration.\n\nA January 21, 1954 memo by the Department of the Interior advised that a bill for termination is to be prepared including \"about 3,600 members of the Oneida Tribe residing in Wisconsin. These Indians have no land in Federal trusteeship and are not receiving any Federal services in such fields as health or education.\" Clarification of who these tribes were was found in a Department of the Interior memo entitled \"Indian Claims Commission Awards Over $38.5 Million to Indian Tribes in 1964\", which states that the Emigrant Indians of New York are \"now known as the Oneidas, Stockbridge-Munsee, and Brotherton Indians of Wisconsin\".\n\nIn an effort to fight termination and force the government into recognizing their outstanding land claims from New York, the three tribes began filing litigation in the 1950s. As a result of a claim filed with the Indian Claims Commission, the group was awarded a settlement of $1,313,472.65 on August 11, 1964. To distribute the funds, Congress passed Public Law 90-93 81 Stat. 229 \"Emigrant New York Indians of Wisconsin Judgment Act\" and prepared separate rolls of persons in each of the three groups to determine which tribal members had at least one-quarter \"Emigrant New York Indian blood\". It further directed tribal governing bodies of the Oneidas and Stockbridge-Munsee to apply to the Secretary of the Interior for approval of fund distributions, thereby ending termination efforts for these tribes. With regard to the Brothertown Indians, however, though the law did not specifically state they were terminated, it authorized all payments to be made directly to each enrollee with special provisions for minors to be handled by the Secretary. The payments were not subject to state or federal taxes.\n\nWhen guidelines were established in 1978 to regain federal recognition, the Brothertown Indians submitted a petition. It was rejected because they had lost federal recognition through congressional legislation granting them citizenship. The Bureau of Indian Affairs acknowledged in 1993 that the federal government had recognized them as a sovereign tribe in treaties for 1831, 1832 and in the \"1839 act which granted them citizenship and gave the tribe land in Wisconsin\". Based on these findings the tribe petitioned the Department of the Interior again. In 2012 the Department, in the final determination on the Brothertown petition, determined that the tribal status of the group was terminated by the 1839 act granting citizenship. The acting Assistant Secretary noted that only Congress could restore the tribal status. In an ongoing effort to regain recognition, the tribe asked the Town Board of Brothertown, Wisconsin for support. In a vote held on 27 December 2013, the town refused to endorse a plan to seek Congressional approval.\n\nIn 1954 at Congressional hearings, the Flathead Tribes were able to resist the government's plans to terminate their tribe. An opinion issued April 8, 1980 in the US District court for the State of Montana confirmed that the Flathead Reservation held in trust by the US Government had not been diminished nor terminated since enactment of \"The Flathead Act\" of April 23, 1904. It further clarified that Congress's intent to terminate must be clear and cannot be inferred, stating \"A congressional determination to terminate must be expressed on the face of the Act or be clear from the surrounding circumstances and legislative history.\"\n\nBecause jurisdiction over criminal matters had already been transferred to the State of Kansas by the passage of the Kansas Act of 1940, the government targeted the four tribes in Kansas for immediate termination. In February 1954 joint hearings for the Kansas tribes were held by the House and Senate Subcommittees on Indian Affairs.\n\nThe Prairie Band of Potawatomi Nation tribal leader, Minnie Evans (Indian name: Ke-waht-no-quah Wish-Ken-O), led the effort to stop termination. Tribal members sent petitions of protest to the government and multiple delegations went to testify at congressional meetings in Washington, DC. Tribal Council members Vestana Cadue, Oliver Kahbeah, and Ralph Simon of the Kickapoo Tribe in Kansas traveled at their own expense to testify as well. The strong opposition from the Potawatomi and Kickapoo tribes helped them, as well as the Sac & Fox and the Iowa Tribe, avoid termination.\n\nThough termination legislation was introduced (Legislation 4. S. 2748, H.R. 7316. 83rd Congress. Termination of Federal Supervision over Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa Indians), the law was not implemented. In 1954, at the Congressional hearings for the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa Indians, tribal Chairman Patrick Gourneau and a delegation spoke in Washington, DC. They testified that the group was not financially prepared, had high unemployment and poverty, suffered from low education levels, and termination would be devastating to the tribe. Based on their testimony, the Chippewa were dropped from the tribes to be terminated.\n\nDiscussions between the BIA and the Indians from the Lower Sioux Community in Redwood and Scott counties, the New Upper Sioux Community in Yellow Medicine County, the Prairie Island Community in Goodhue County and some scattered individuals living on restricted tracts in Yellow Medicine County began in 1953 and continued throughout 1954. Though the Prairie Island and Lower Sioux communities drafted agreements with individual land ownership, the Upper Sioux strongly opposed fee simple title to tribal lands.\n\nOn January 26, 1955, Senator Edward Thye introduced into Congress a bill (S704) to provide for termination of the tribes. Opposition, not only of the Dakota, but of other citizens who realized their state expenses might increase, were made to the committee reviewing the bill. The Governor's Commission on Human Rights also opposed the legislation, indicating that it would \"not adequately protect the interests of the Indians\". The bill died in committee, never reaching the Senate floor.\n\nBeing proposed for termination galvanized the Seminole Tribe of Florida. On 9 October 1953, an emergency meeting was called at the agency headquarters on the Dania Reservation. There were two issues to be considered: 1) convincing the government that the tribe was not ready to take over management of its own affairs and 2) convincing the government that not all native people living in Florida were Seminole. On March 1–2, 1954, designated tribal members testified at a Joint Hearing before the Subcommittees of the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs of the 83rd Congress. Additional hearings were held 6–7 April 1955, requesting the continuance for the next 25 years of government supervision and separation of the Seminoles from the Miccosukees and Traditionals. By March 26, 1957, a committee had been formed to draft a constitution and corporate charter. The constitution and bylaws were accepted by tribal vote on August 21, 1957 and ratified by Congress later that same year. The Miccosukees formed their own government, receiving state recognition in 1957 and federal recognition as the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida in 1962. Some Traditionals refused to affiliate with either tribe, not wanting relations with the federal government.\n\nOn August 1, 1956, the US Congress passed Public Law ch. 843, 70 Stat. 893 to terminate the Wyandotte Tribe of Oklahoma. Three years were allotted for completion of termination and one of the stipulations required that a parcel of land in Kansas City, Kansas reserved as the Huron Cemetery which had been awarded to the Wyandottes by treaty on January 31, 1855 was to be sold by the United States. Litigation was filed by a group of Absentee Wyandots against the United States and the City of Kansas City, Kansas which resulted in an inability of the US to fulfill the terms of the termination statute and ultimately kept the Wyandotte Tribe from being terminated. The Bureau of Land Management records confirm that the Federal Register never published the termination of the Wyandotte lands and thus they were never officially terminated.\n\nTo clarify the uncertainty, since an actual act had been passed, when Congress restored the other Oklahoma Tribes, it included the Wyandotte in the repeal. On May 15, 1978, in a single Act, entitled Public Law 95-281, the termination laws were repealed and the three tribes were reinstated with all rights and privileges they had prior to termination.\n\n41 Rancherias in California were approved for termination under the original terms of the 1958 California Rancheria Termination Act, Public Law 85-671 and another 7 Rancherias were targeted in the 1964 amendment to the Act. For five of the Rancherias terminations were not completed by the US government:\n\nAfter eleven years as Choctaw chief, Harry J. W. Belvin persuaded Representative Carl Albert of Oklahoma to introduce federal legislation to begin terminating the Choctaw tribe, as a means to circumvent BIA intrusion into tribal funds and government. On April 23, 1959, the BIA confirmed that H.R. 2722 had been submitted to Congress at the request of the tribe, and would sell all remaining tribal assets, but would not effect any individual Choctaw earnings. It also provided for retention of half of all mineral rights which could be managed by a tribal corporation.\n\nOn August 25, 1959, Congress passed a bill to terminate the tribe, which was later called \"Belvin's law\" as he was the main advocate behind it. In actuality, the provisions of the bill were intended to be a final disposition of all trust obligations and a final \"dissolution of the tribal governments\". The original Act was to have expired in 1962, but was amended twice to allow more time to sell the tribal assets. As time wore on, Belvin realized that the bill severed the tribe members access to government loans and other services, including the tribal tax exemption. By 1967, he had asked Oklahoma Congressman Ed Edmondson to try to repeal the termination act. Congress finally repealed the law on August 24, 1970.\n\nOn August 31, 1964, H.R. 1794, \"An Act to authorize payment for certain interests in lands within the Allegheny Indian Reservation in New York\", was passed by Congress and sent to the president for signature. The bill authorized payment for resettling and rehabilitation of the Seneca Indians. As part of their reservation was effected by the construction of the Kinzua Dam on the Allegheny River, 127 Seneca families (about 500) people were being dislocated. The legislation provided benefits for the entire Seneca Nation, because the taking of the Indian land for the dam broke (abridged) a 1794 treaty between the Government and the Senecas. In addition, the bill provided that within three years, a plan from the Interior Secretary should be submitted to Congress withdrawing all federal supervision over the Seneca Nation. (Technically the state of New York, and not the Federal Government, had had supervision over the Senecas since 1949.)\n\nAccordingly, on September 5, 1967, a memo from the Department of the Interior announced that legislation had been proposed to end federal ties with the Seneca. In 1968 a new liaison was appointed from the BIA for the tribe to assist the tribe in preparing for termination and rehabilitation. Like the Choctaw, the Seneca were able to hold off termination until President Nixon issued his \"Special Message to the Congress on Indian Affairs\" in July 1970.\n\nTermination acts were passed dealing with particular tribes or groups of tribes because of special circumstances. They followed the basic termination policies, but sometimes had minor variations. In some cases, when termination was reversed, the government granted recognition, but no restoration of federal trust lands occurred. Some of those tribes, specifically in California, are still seeking restoration of reservation lands.\n\nThe Menominee tribe of Wisconsin was one of the first tribes proposed for termination. Observers believed they did not need governmental services because of the value of their timber lands. On June 17, 1954, Congress passed the Menominee Termination Act, ending the special relationship between the Menominee tribe of Wisconsin and the federal government. Though the act was passed in 1954, it was not until April 30, 1961, that they were officially terminated.\n\nThe Menominee did not initially cooperate with the new policy. They had recently won a court case against the government over mismanagement of forestry enterprises, and Senator Watkins threatened to withhold the $8.5 million settlement unless the Menominee agreed to termination. Previously, the tribe had been able to support themselves and fund most social programs with revenue generated by the logging industry and lumber mill. Their economic situation, however, was precarious since they only had one resource.\n\nThis act was unique because it left out termination of Menominee hunting and fishing rights. The state of Wisconsin tried to subject the Menominee tribe to state hunting and fishing regulations, including requiring individuals to get permits for hunting. When the tribe filed suit against the state to defend their treaty rights, the Wisconsin Supreme Court upheld these regulations. They ruled that Congress had abrogated all Menominee hunting and fishing rights by passing the Menominee Termination Act.\n\nThe tribe appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States in 1968 in \"Menominee Tribe v. United States\". The U.S. Supreme Court found that termination of a tribe did not abrogate treaty rights unless there was specific legislative intent to do so. The Menominees' hunting and fishing rights were guaranteed under the Wolf River Treaty of 1854. Since the Menominee Termination Act made no mention of these treaty hunting and fishing rights, the U.S. Supreme Court found that the treaty rights had not been abrogated. They ruled that the Menominee were still entitled to their traditional hunting and fishing rights free from state control.\n\nThe Wisconsin Supreme Court had gone against Public Law 280 when they denied the Menominee their hunting and fishing rights (124 N.W.2d 41, 1963). Public Law 280 explicitly states that \"Nothing in this section ... shall deprive any Indian or any Indian tribe, band, or community of any right, privilege, or immunity afforded under Federal treaty, agreement or statute with respect to hunting, trapping, or fishing or the control, licensing, or regulation thereof.\" These proceedings show that while the abrogation of federal treaties is legal (under \"Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock\"), Congressional intent to abrogate these treaties cannot be inferred, it must be explicit. Unless specifically abrogated by Congress, treaty rights remain in effect, whether a tribe is terminated or not.\n\nAfter they were terminated, the commonly held land and money were transferred to the corporation Menominee Enterprises, Inc. (MEI), and the geographical area of the reservation was admitted to the state as a new county. Menominee County soon became the poorest county in the state. MEI funds were rapidly depleted. Concern about corruption within MEI, including its selling of former tribal land, led community members such as Ada Deer and James White to form a group called the Determination of Rights and Unity for Menominee Stockholders (DRUMS) in 1970.\n\nThey fought to regain control of MEI and, by the end of 1972, they controlled the corporation. The activists worked to restore Menominee tribal government and regain sovereignty. Their success was reflected in the Menominee Restoration Act, signed by President Richard Nixon in 1973. With the help of the Menominee Restoration Committee (MCR), the reservation was reformed in 1975, a tribal constitution was signed in 1976, and the new tribal government took over in 1979.\n\nThe Klamath tribe in Oregon was terminated under the \"Klamath Termination Act\", or Public Law 587, enacted on August 13, 1954. Under this act, all federal supervision over Klamath lands, as well as federal aid provided to the Klamath because of their special status as Indians, was terminated.\nThe legislation required each tribal member to choose between remaining a member of the tribe, or withdrawing and receiving a monetary payment for the value of the individual share of tribal land.\nThose who stayed became members of a tribal management plan. This plan became a trust relationship between tribal members and the United States National Bank in Portland, Oregon. Of the 2,133 members of the Klamath tribe at the time of termination, 1,660 decided to withdraw from the tribe and accept individual payments for land.\n\nThe termination of the Klamath Reservation, in actuality included three distinct but affiliated tribes. The Act defines the members as the \"Klamath and Modoc Tribes and the Yahooskin Band of Snake Indians, and of the individual members thereof\". A portion of the Modoc Tribe, had been taken as prisoners to Indian Territory in 1873 following the Modoc War in Oregon. In 1965, as a part of the US settlement with the Klamath reservation, a series of hearings were held from April to August. The hearings concluded without allowing the Oklahoma Modoc to be included in the rolls of the Klamath Tribe.\n\nIronically, the western Modoc were restored to tribal status on May 15, 1978, in an Act which reinstated the Modoc, Wyandotte, Peoria and Ottawa Tribes of Oklahoma. Almost a decade later, through the leadership and vision of the Klamath people, and the assistance of a few congressional leaders, the Klamath Restoration Act was adopted into law in 1986, reestablishing the Klamath as a sovereign state.\n\nThe Western Oregon Indian Termination Act, or Public Law 588, was passed in August 1954. It called for termination of federal supervision over the trust and restricted property of numerous Native American bands and small tribes, all located west of the Cascade Mountains in Oregon.\nThe act also called for disposition of federally owned property which had been bought for the administration of Indian affairs, and for termination of federal services which these Indians received under federal recognition. The stipulations in this act were similar to those of most termination acts.\n\nThe Western Oregon Indian Termination Act was unique because of the number of tribes it affected. In all, 61 tribes in western Oregon were terminated. This total of tribes numbered more than the total of those terminated under all other individual acts. The history of the area, with the Coastal Reservation being established by Executive Order and not treaty, then separated into the Siletz and Grande Ronde Reservations, then those two reservations being combined, and yet again separated, makes the situation complicated, and difficult to ascertain specific tribal data. The final roll of the Confederated Tribes of Siletz contained 929 names and the final roll of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde contained 862 names. The combined total of these two confederations' population was 1,791, though there may well have been scattered native peoples in the coastal region who were not affiliated with these reservations.\n\nThere were restoration acts that restored all of the bands who had tribe members that had been located on the Grand Ronde or Silez Reservations. Some of these tribes were restored with those acts and later obtained their own federal recognition.\n\n\nOn August 23, 1954, the United States Congress passed two laws to terminate the federal relationship with the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe of Texas. Public Law ch. 831, §1, 68 Stat. 768 provided that the Secretary of the Interior was to transfer to the State of Texas the tribal lands for the benefit of the tribe. In addition, it terminated the federal trust relationship to the tribe and the individual members of the tribe and canceled any federal debts.\n\nOn March 22, 1983, Texas Attorney General Jim Mattox released an opinion (JM-17) stating that the state's assumption of power over the property of the Alabama-Coushatta was a violation of the Texas Constitution. He stated that as the federal government had withdrawn its recognition that the tribe was \"merely an unincorporated association under Texas law, with the same legal status as other private associations ... the 3,071 acre tract is entirely free from any legally meaningful designation as an 'Indian Reservation. In response to concerns by the tribe, Representative Ronald D. Coleman of Texas introduced a federal bill on February 28, 1985 to restore federal jurisdiction for the tribe. Because the initial bill HR 1344 allowed gambling, amendments were made and the Yselta del Sur Pueblo and Alabama and Coushatta Indian Tribes of Texas Restoration Act was reintroduced as HR 318. Public Law 100-89, 101 STAT. 666 was enacted 18 August 1987 and restored the federal relationship with the tribe. Section 107 specifically prohibits all gaming activities prohibited by the laws of the state of Texas.\n\nOn August 27, 1954, the US Congress passed Public Law 671 Chapter ch. 1009 68 Stat. 868 to partition the Ute Indian Tribe of the Uintah and Ouray Reservation in Utah between the mixed-blood and full-blood members. The Act provided for termination of federal supervision over the mixed-blood members, terminated their access to Indian Health Services and allowed for a distribution of assets to them. In addition it created a development program to assist the full-blood members to prepare for federal termination. Anyone with less than half Ute blood was automatically classified as part of the mixed-blood group. Anyone with more than half Ute blood quantum was allowed to choose which group they wished to be part of going forward.\n\nUnder the Act, the mixed-bloods were to select representatives in an unincorporated association, the Affiliated Ute Citizens (AUC), which in turn created the Ute Distribution Corporation (UDC) to manage their oil, gas, and mineral rights and unliquidated claims against the federal government as part of the plan for distributing assets to individual mixed-bloods. The UDC issued stock shares to mixed-bloods and which could be redeemed through the First Security Bank of Utah. Mixed-bloods who wanted to dispose of their stock prior to August 27, 1964, had to give first-refusal rights to tribe members.\n\nIn November 2002, mixed-bloods whose citizenship in the tribe had been terminated filed a civil action in the Washington DC US District Court, \"Felter vs. Kempthorne\", to repeal the Ute Partition Act. On 27 January 2006, the case was dismissed and an appeal was filed. In a decision dated January 19, 2007, the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ordered the remand to the district court for further review.\n\nOn September 1, 1954, the US Congress passed \"Termination of Federal Supervision over Paiute Indians of Utah\" U.S. Code, Title 25, Sections 741-60. The legislation at §742 specified that the included bands were the Shivwits, Kanosh, Koosharem, and Indian Peaks Bands of the Paiute Indian Tribe (omitting the Cedar Band). As with other termination agreements, the Act provided for termination of federal trusts and distribution of tribal lands to individuals or a tribally organized entity. It had provisions to preserve the tribal water rights and a special education program to assist tribal members in learning how to earn a living, conduct affairs, and assume their responsibilities as citizens. The Bureau of Land management terminated tribal trusts on March 1, 1957, as did the Indian Health Service.\n\nOn April 3, 1980, Congress passed the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah Restoration Act, Public Law 96-227 94 Stat. 317, which restored the federal trust relationship of the Shivwits, Kanosh, Koosharem, and Indian Peaks Bands of the Paiute Indian Tribe and restored and reaffirmed that the Cedar Band was part of the Tribe. The law acknowledged that the Kanosh, Koosharem, and Indian Peaks Bands had lost their lands as a result of termination and that the Cedar Band had never had any. It proposed to develop within two years of enactment a plan to secure reservation land for the tribe not to exceed 15,000 acres. The Bureau of Land management reinstituted the federal trust on 43,576.99 concurrent with the enactment of the statute.\n\nOn August 1, 2, and 3, 1956, Congress passed three related Acts terminating the federal supervision of the Ottawa Tribe of Oklahoma; the Peoria Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma; and the Wyandotte Tribe of Oklahoma. All three Acts were substantially identical and called for the termination of federal supervision over trust lands at the end of three years by creating the means to transfer to individual members the property of the tribes. The Wyandotte Nation was not successfully terminated due to a legal complication.\n\nOn May 15, 1978, in a single Act, entitled Public Law 95-281, the termination laws were repealed and the three tribes were reinstated with all rights and privileges they had prior to termination. A special section of the Reinstatement Act addresses the Modoc Tribe of Oklahoma confirming that the provisions of the Klamath Termination Act did not apply to them except as provided for sharing in future claims against the United States.\n\nThree California Rancheria Termination Acts (and an amendment) were passed in the 1950s and 1960s. The first Act, passed in 1956, the second in 1957, and the final act of 1958 targeted 41 Rancherias for termination and an additional 7 under an amendment of 1964.\n\nThe first termination occurred on March 29, 1956, for the Koi Nation of the Lower Lake Rancheria in two laws, Public Law 443 [H. R. 585] 70 Stat. 58 and Public Law 751 [H. R. 11163] 70 Stat. 595 which amended the description of the property. After years of attempting to have their status reaffirmed, the Bureau of Indian Affairs \"citing oversights in official records\", recognized the tribe on December 29, 2000.\n\nThe second termination occurred on July 10, 1957, when the Coyote Valley Band of Pomo Indians was displaced with passage of Public Law 85-91 71 Stat. 283 authorizing the sale of the Coyote Valley Rancheria by the Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of the Army for the Russian River Basin project to build the Coyote Valley Dam. Like the Koi Nation, this may have been a recording error, as the tribe is a federally recognized entity.\n\nOne final Rancheria appears to have been terminated prior to the 1958 Act. According to the Indian Health program records, Laguna Rancheria was terminated as of February 4, 1958.\n\nOn August 18, 1958, Congress passed the California Rancheria Termination Act, Public Law 85-671 (). The act called for the distribution of all 41 rancheria communal lands and assets to individual tribe members.\nBefore the land could be distributed, the act called for a government survey of land on the rancheria. The government was required to improve or construct all roads serving the rancheria, to install or rehabilitate irrigation, sanitation, and domestic water systems, and to exchange land held in trust for the rancheria. All Indians who received a portion of the assets were ineligible to receive any more federal services rendered to them based on their status as Indians.\n\nIn 1964, an amendment to the California Rancheria Termination Act () was enacted, terminating additional rancheria lands. Overall, then, there were three rancherias terminated prior to Public Law 85-671, 41 mentioned in Public Law 85-671, an additional 7 included in the amendment of 1964 and 5 that were never terminated but were listed, correcting the number of California Rancherias terminated from the oft-cited 41 to 46 total terminations.\n\nMany tribes expressed dissatisfaction with termination immediately. Federal failures to live up to promised improvements and educational opportunities that were supposed to be part of an agreement to accept termination led eventually to lawsuits calling to reverse terminations.\n\nThe first successful challenge was for the Robinson Rancheria on March 22, 1977, and it was followed by 5 others: the Hopland Rancheria was restored on March 29, 1978; the Upper Lake Rancheria was restored on May 15, 1979; the Table Bluff Rancheria was restored on September 21, 1981; the Big Sandy Rancheria was restored on March 28, 1983; and the Table Mountain Rancheria was restored in June 1983. Each of these decisions only pertained to one reservation.\n\nThe success of these suits and frustration with unmet promises caused Tillie Hardwick in 1979 to consult with California Indian Legal Services, who decided to make a class action case. On July 19, 1983, a U.S. District Court in \"Tillie Hardwick, et al. v. United States of America, et al.\" Case #C-79-1710-SW ordered federal recognition of 17 of California's Rancherias. The Hardwick decision restored more terminated tribes than any other single case in California and prompted the majority of the terminated Rancherias to pursue federal restoration.\n\nOf the 46 terminated Rancherias, 31 have been restored; 6 Rancherias are still attempting to restore their federal status.\n\nOn September 21, 1959, Congress passed Public Law No. 86-322, 73 Stat. 592 calling for the termination of the Catawba Indian Tribe of South Carolina. The Bureau of Land Management terminated their trust status on July 2, 1960.\n\nAfter termination in 1959, the Catawba nation in South Carolina was determined to fight to regain federal recognition. In 1973, the Catawba filed their petition with the United States Congress for federal recognition. It was not until 20 years later, November 20, 1993, that the land claim settlement with the state of South Carolina and the federal government finally came to an end.\n\nBased on the Treaty of Nations Ford of 1840, the Catawba agreed to give up claims on land taken from them by the state of South Carolina. In return, the Catawba Indian Nation received federal recognition and $50 million for economic development, education, social services, and land purchases. On October 27, 1993, the US Congress enacted Public Law No. 103-116, 107 Stat. 1118, to restore the tribal relationship with the federal government and resolve the land disputes.\n\nOn September 5, 1962 Public Law 87–629 76 Stat. 429 was passed terminating the Ponca Tribe of Nebraska.Conditions were similar to other termination agreements, but each tribal member was allotted up to 5 acres of tribal land for personal use as a homesite and the remaining lands were ordered to be sold. One special provision concerned retaining mineral rights to the property by individuals owning at least 25% in the land. The Bureau of Land Management confirmed that the federal trust was terminated on October 27, 1966.\n\nFred Leroy, a Ponca and Vietnam veteran, formed the Northern Ponca Restoration Committee in 1986–87 and began lobbying the state of Nebraska for recognition. In 1988 the state recognized the tribe and agreed to endorse them for federal restoration. On October 31, 1990, the Ponca Restoration Act was passed by Congress and signed by President George H.W. Bush. Concurrent with their restoration, the Bureau of Land Management restored the tribal trust lands of 241.84 acres.\n\nOn April 12, 1968, under Public Law 90–287 82 Stat. 93 the United States Congress relinquished all responsibility for the Tiwa Indians of Ysleta, Texas to the State of Texas. The Tiwa Indians Act specified that tribal members would be ineligible for any services, claims or demands from the United States as Indians.\n\nPublic Law 100-89, 101 STAT. 666 was enacted on August 18, 1987, and restored the federal relationship with the tribe simultaneously with those of the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe. The restoration act renamed the tribe to the Ysleta Del Sur Pueblo, repealed the Tiwa Indians Act, and specifically prohibited all gaming activities prohibited by the laws of the state of Texas.\n\nBecause Alaska was not granted statehood until 1959, Native American issues played out differently there. The discovery of oil in the Kenai Peninsula and Cook Inlet regions in 1957, and along the North Slope in 1968, brought the issue of native land ownership to the forefront of a conflict over state land selection.\n\nIn 1936, the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA) was extended to include the Alaskan natives. As Alaska did not become a state until 1959, the Alaskan Natives were passed over as termination policy formed in 1953. The fervor for termination faded before Alaskan Natives became subjects of the discussion. Alaskan Natives hurriedly filed land claims with the Department of the Interior as state land selections and statehood drew closer.\n\nSecretary of the Interior Stewart Udall was a supporter of the Natives. In 1966, he issued a freeze on state land selections. In 1969 he issued the Deep Freeze, which declared ninety percent of the state off limits to any form of federal land transfer. One of the main bodies responsible for representing the interests of the Alaskan Natives is the Alaska Federation of Natives. From 1966 to 1971, this group lobbied for a fair land claims settlement act, which resulted in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA). ANCSA was intended both to provide the state with land promised in gaining statehood and the Natives with a land base.\n\nThis act (43 U.S.C. § 1617) was signed into law by President Richard Nixon on December 18, 1971. It revoked previous land claims by the Alaskan natives. Initially, the legislation divided the land into twelve regional (a thirteenth would be added later for natives living outside of the state) and 220 local corporations. U.S. citizens with one-fourth (equivalent to one grandparent) or more Alaska Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut blood living when the Act was passed were considered Native American, and were qualified to participate in receiving dividends from oil production. Natives could register with their village or, if they chose not to enroll with their village, could become \"at large\" shareholders of the regional corporation. (Note: The Tsimshian Indians of the Annette Island Reserve of Metlakatla had been granted a reserve from Congress after emigrating from Canada; they were exempt from ANCSA.)\n\nEach registered member of the village corporations received 100 shares of stock in the village corporation. The corporations were granted the land base, or about twelve percent of the state of Alaska. In addition, they received around $962.5 million from both federal and state governments, which was distributed over eleven years. The first five years saw 10% of the money received go to the shareholders of the company, and 45% each to the regional and local corporations. Afterward, half of the money was distributed to the regional corporations and half to the village corporations and \"at large\" shareholders on a per capita basis.\n\nThe land grant came at a cost. Aboriginal title to the land and aboriginal hunting and fishing rights were extinguished by the act in exchange for fee-simple title to the land and monetary grants to the Native corporations. Certain aboriginal rights, including subsistence and medical care, were protected under other laws, including the Nelson Act of 1905, the Snyder Act of 1921, the Health Facilities Act of 1957, the Marine Mammal Protection Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Indian Self-Determination Act of 1975, and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act of 1976. In addition, the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) protected over of federal lands in Alaska and the subsistence lifestyle of the Alaskan Natives. This act, passed into law in 1980, doubled the size of the country's national park and refuge system. It created 10 new national parks and increased the area of three existing units. By enacting this law, the government effectively protected land for the Alaskan Natives to continue subsistence living. These laws indicate that the government does not distinguish between tribal nations and the Alaskan Natives.\n\nA negative aspect of the ANCSA was that any child born after the passage of the ANCSA could receive no shares under the statute, but could become shareholders by inheritance. Shares could also be inherited by non-Natives, putting the Natives in a difficult position in trying to maintain Native control of the corporations. Shares could also be sold after a 20-year period. Sovereignty was extinguished with the ANCSA and all aboriginal rights were subject to state law. The village corporations owned only the surface of the selected land. Minerals located below the surface belonged to the regional corporations.\n\nThe political climate after World War II based its ideology on building a patriotic, strong, conforming society with all ethnic groups melding together in which free democracy protected American principals of growth through one's own achievement. The Truman administration laid the groundwork for termination, authorizing the Indian Claims Commission to settle and pay off Indian groups and surveying conditions in Indian country with the Hoover Task Force. The claims and large expenditures for the survey, coupled with high war debt, led the Eisenhower administration to seek ways to retrench federal budgeting and spending.\n\nIn attempting to grasp what was meant by assimilation into the broader society, understanding the political landscape of the times is important. Assimilation did not mean amalgamation. Cultural diversity was not something to be appreciated, it was a problem that needed to be solved. This was the United States of \"separate but equal\". To put the period in historic context, House Concurrent Resolution 108 passed in 1953, McCarthyism was in full swing and the Communist Control Act of 1954 was designed to keep \"collectivism\" out of politics. Brown v. Board of Education was decided in 1954, and the US was a decade away from the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Anti-miscegenation laws were predominant (see Anti-miscegenation laws in the United States) and until the Perez v. Sharp decision of 1948 and Loving v. Virginia decision of 1967 racial inter-marriage was banned in over 30 states.\n\nAllotment programs of the previous decades had led to surplus lands being sold by the government to allow white settlement on former reservation lands, creating an attitude that reservations were standing in the way of progress for both native peoples and newly arrived whites. In fact, one of the main architects of the termination policy, Senator Arthur V. Watkins' parents had expanded their farm by purchasing surplus reservation lands from the Uintah and Ouray Reservation. But it was not just land for settlement; reservations were barriers to the government earning revenues from oil leases, mining leases, timber leases and hydroelectric dams. The perception was that the Indians were under-utilizing their resources and blocking the ability of the government to exploit the environment as a revenue base.\n\nPoliticians from both Democratic and Republican backgrounds supported termination and in truth geographic location may have played a much stronger roll in support than party affiliation. A review of the political figures involved shows a preponderance of supporters were from western states with high Indian populations. In fact, rather than true opposition to termination, the question was whether termination should be unilaterally applied or whether tribal consent should be obtained. Even those who had a real understanding of native peoples and customs, did not question that they would be terminated, but rather how quickly it should be done, how ready they were, whether Congress should immediately or gradually withdraw its trust obligations—in other words to what degree implementation would occur and when.\n\nThe native political positions were a little more clearly in favor or opposition. The Bureau of Indian Affairs had had management issues for decades. Poorly trained personnel, inefficiency, corruption, and lack of consistent policy plagued the organization almost from its founding. For some tribes, relief from BIA oversight of policies and funds seemed as if it might pave the way for tribes to maintain their own traditional ways of operating. But for the vast majority of tribes, termination meant death – an end to sovereignty, an end to communal life, an end to services like healthcare, utilities, and education.\n\nSome of the major supporters of the termination movement included political appointees, which clearly illustrate that support was not particularly partisan. Truman's appointee as Commissioner of Indian Affairs, Dillon S. Myer, was a hard-line \"Terminationist\" as well as an advocate of complete assimilation. For example, in implementing the relocation program, Myer targeted school programs mainstreaming mixed-bloods into public schools and allowing only full-bloods to attend reservation schools, forbidding education on Indian cultures. Myers' militaristic style resulted in calls for his replacement when Eisenhower was elected, culminating in the appointment of Glenn L. Emmons. Emmons had lived and worked among New Mexico's Indians and while he favored termination, he was a \"Protectionist\", believing that with a gradual withdrawal of government assistance, native peoples would learn to be self-sufficient. He opposed programs that exploited native vulnerability and failed to take their wishes into consideration.\n\nTruman's first Secretary of the Interior Julius Krug forsook his obligation to preserve Alaskan natives' rights to the Tongass National Forest. It was widely believed that he had relinquished responsibility to protect the Alaskan natives in favor of corporate timber interests. Though urged to stop passage of the Tongass Timber Bill and set aside reservation lands, instead the bill was passed (Public Law 385) in 1947. The following year, Krug prepared the \"Krug Indian Land Confiscation Bill\" to put an end to all native land claims in Alaska, but was forced to abandon the measure due to opposition shortly before he resigned. Krug was replaced by Oscar L. Chapman, a \"Protectionist\" who was a supporter of Bosone's termination amendment requiring tribal assent. Eisenhower's election saw a shift back to a \"Terminationist\" Secretary of the Interior, with the appointment of Douglas McKay. McKay, former Republican governor of Oregon, supported termination as a means of fully assimilating the Indians. Orme Lewis, Arizona Republican and Assistant Secretary of the Interior Department, clearly supported termination and was one of the primary officials to meet with Watkins to map out the termination policy.\n\nThe ranks of \"Protectionist\" elected officials—who felt that the Tribes should be consulted, policies should move slowly, and termination should occur only when Indians were ready—were small, but powerful. Some of the leaders were Utah Senator Reva Beck Bosone, Democrat who introduced House Joint Resolution 490, which allowed termination only with the Indians' consent, on their own terms, as she felt they were capable of managing their own affairs. Oregon Senator Richard L. Neuberger, Democrat and Oregon Representative Albert Ullman, Democrat worked together to delay implementation of the Klamath termination law until hearings with the Indians were held and amendments could be made.\n\nMontana Senator James Murray, Democrat and Montana Representative Lee Metcalf, Democrat strongly opposed ending federal trust status unless the tribes had requested it. and worked on four proposals demanding restoration of the federal responsibility for Indian welfare, education, employment and health care. New Mexico Senator Clinton P. Anderson, Democrat advocated that the views of the tribes should be considered or legislation should not be passed, as did Oregon Senator Guy Cordon, Republican.\nThe chief Congressional proponent of Indian termination and leader of the \"Terminationists\" was Republican Senator Arthur V. Watkins of Utah. He was appointed as chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Indian Affairs in 1947, shortly after he was elected to the Senate and quickly went to work to free the Indians from their wardship status under the BIA.\n\nWilliam H. Harrison (Wyoming Republican Congressman) met with Watkins on February 27, 1953 to map out the strategy for termination and subsequently introduced House Concurrent Resolution 108 into the House, while Henry M. Jackson (Washington Democratic Senator) introduced it into the Senate. E.Y. Berry (South Dakota Republican Congressman), was the chairman of the House Indian Affairs Subcomittee, the corollary position to Watkin's own chairmanship in the House of Representatives.\n\nPatrick McCarran (Nevada Democratic Senator), introduced the McCarran Amendment in 1952 as part of the Department of Justice's Appropriation Act. The Amendment was supposed to simplify Indian water rights by waiving, on a limited basis, the U.S. sovereign immunity for state litigation involving water. Since Native rights are held in the name of the U.S., the Supreme Court ruled in 1971 in the US v. District Court for the County of Eagle and US v. District Court for Water Division No. 5, that their rights are usage rights and not legal title; thus, states can determine whether tribal rights apply or not. Karl E. Mundt South Dakota Republican Congressman), believed that unless a permanent solution to Indian claims was offered, \"detribalization\" would remain out of reach and Native Americans would continue to rely on the government to do what they should be doing for themselves. William Langer (North Dakota Republican Senator), Chairman of the Senate Civil Service Committee saw dissolution of the BIA as a means to reduce excessive government spending \n\nSeveral tribal leaders played important roles in the process of termination, including Choctaw Chief Harry J. W. Belvin. Belvin lobbied heavily for Choctaw termination, which contributed to the tribe's being one of more than 100 scheduled for termination. The effective date of the policy was pushed back three times, and the termination law was repealed in 1970, after another change in policy. Many of the younger members of the Choctaw tribe opposed termination and got Belvin's attention. By 1970, Belvin had turned from supporting termination to advocating its repeal.\n\nAda Deer was instrumental in reversing termination. She was a leader in regaining tribal status for the Menominee tribe. Deer and other Menominee leaders believed that \"only repeal of the termination act, return of the land to its trust status, and full recognition of the tribe and its sovereign authority could right the wrongs against their people and their land\". Ada Deer faced strong opposition from House Interior Committee chairman Wayne Aspinall, who had been a long-time supporter of termination. The Menominee bill to reverse termination had to go through his committee. Deer's work paid off when Aspinall was upset in the Colorado Democratic primary in 1972, and thus lost his committee chair.\n\nIn 1973, Congressmen Lloyd Meeds and Manuel Lujan held House field hearings. The Menominee Restoration Act moved quickly through Congress, and President Richard Nixon signed it into law December 1973. In 1975, the restoration was complete when Secretary of the Interior Rogers Morton held a ceremony in which he signed the documents that dissolved Menominee Enterprises, Incorporated. He gave all Menominee lands back to the tribe. Ada Deer's work to reverse Menominee termination was successful.\n\nJames White worked alongside Ada Deer to help bring about the reversal of termination. White helped found the organization known as Determination of Rights and Unity for Menominee Stockholders (DRUMS) in 1970. Members of DRUMS strongly protested the development of the Legend Lake project and put up their own candidates for election to Menominee Enterprises, Inc. board of directors. DRUMS succeeded in blocking the planned Legend Lake development and controlled most of the board of MEI by 1972. In addition, White's work with DRUMS helped bring about the reversal of Menominee termination.\n\nTillie Hardwick was a Pomo Indian woman who was instrumental in reversing the California Indian Rancheria termination policy of the U.S. government. She filed suit on behalf of the Pinoleville Indian Rancheria in 1979 which was modified into a class action lawsuit in 1982. The case, \"Tillie Hardwick, et al. v. United States of America, et al.\" Case #C-79-1710-SW (often cited as Hardwick I) confirmed, as of December 22, 1983, that 17 of the California Rancherias had been wrongfully terminated and reaffirmed their recognition by the federal government. As many of the tribes involved had lost their lands to private parties, an amended Hardwick case was filed in 1986 (often cited as Hardwick II) to partially restore land claims. The Hardwick case affected more tribes than any other case in California and became precedent not only for additional wrongful termination cases, but is cited in nearly every gaming decision for the California tribes.\n\nBill Osceola (June 30, 1919 – April 16, 1995) participated in both the March 1–2, 1954 and April 6– 7, 1955 Congressional hearings on the Seminole Tribe of Florida. On April 4, 1955, when the tribe created a board of directors to organize the tribe, he was appointed chairman. Lacking the necessary funds to make repeated trips to Washington, DC and Tallahassee, Florida to argue their case, Osceola came up with a plan to build a rodeo arena on the Dania Reservation as a tourist attraction. He convinced cattlemen in Brighton to commit cattle and got lumber donations from people in Broward County. Opening day at the Rodeo saw 500 spectators and proceeds were used to organize the tribe and gain federal recognition. The rodeo that Osceola began in an effort to save his tribe was christened on February 7, 1997 as the Bill Osceola Memorial Rodeo, to honor his memory.\n\nIn February 1954 in hearings before the joint Senate and House Subcommittees on Indian Affairs in Washington DC, two delegations from Kansas were successfully able to thwart termination attempts against the Kansas Tribes. Prairie Band of Potawatomi Nation tribal chair Minnie Evans, along with James Wahbnosah and John Wahwassuck and a delegation from the Kickapoo Tribe in Kansas Tribal Council including members Vestana Cadue, Oliver Kahbeah, and Ralph Simon traveled at their own expense to argue against termination.\n\nDuring 1953–1964, more than 100 tribes were terminated, approximately of trust land were removed from protected status, and 13,263 Native Americans lost tribal affiliation. As a result of termination, the special federal trustee relationship of the Indians with the federal government ended, they were subjected to state laws, and their lands were converted to private ownership.\n\nThe tribes disapproved of Public Law 280, as they disliked states having jurisdiction without tribal consent. The State governments also disapproved of the law, as they did not want to take on jurisdiction for additional areas without additional funding. Consequently, additional amendments to Public Law 280 were passed to require tribal consent in law enforcement. On May 3, 1958, the Inter Tribal Council of California (ITCC) was founded in response to the pressures of termination and other issues.\n\nMany scholars believe that the termination policy had devastating effects on tribal autonomy, culture and economic welfare. The lands belonging to the Native Americans, rich in resources, were taken over by the federal government. The termination policy had disastrous effects on the Menominee tribe (located in Wisconsin) and the Klamath tribes (located in Oregon), forcing many members of the tribes onto the public assistance roll.\n\nTermination had a devastating effect on the health care and education of Indians along with the economic stability of tribes. Along with the end of federal control over land came the end of many federal services which included education and health care.\n\nBy 1972, termination clearly had affected the tribes' education. There was a 75% dropout rate for the Menominee Tribe, which resulted in a generation of Menominee children who had only a ninth grade education. The tribes lost federal support for their schools, and the states were expected to assume the role of educating the Indian children. The Menominee children, for example, did not have their own tribal schools any more and were discriminated against within the public schools. The Menominee education program became a part of Joint School District No. 8. Younger children were still able to attend schools close to their homes, but high school students had to travel to either Gresham, Wisconsin, or Shawano for schooling. All terminated tribes faced new education policies, which gave the children fewer educational opportunities that were not as good as what the whites received.\n\nThe idea of termination was to restore complete sovereignty to the United States, and to encourage assimilation into a modern, individualistic society, rather than a savage tribal mentality. In 1966 the Keshena and Neopit 3rd and 6th graders' success on the Iowa Test for basic skills was compared to the rest of their school district (Joint School District No. 8). The school district had a composite grade for the 3rd and 6th graders of 82% and 60%, respectively. However, the two schools composed mostly of Indian students had drastically lower scores. Keshena's scores on this same test were about 13% for the 3rd graders and 17% for the 6th graders, while Neopit's were 15% for the 3rd graders and 8% for the 6th graders. From these test scores, it can be seen that education was not improved when termination occurred and the Indians' level of education was nowhere near that of whites in the area.\n\nTerminated tribal children struggled to stay in school, and those who did were excluded from programs that paid for higher Indian education. In 1970 the BIA began to make annual grants that gave scholarships to Indians to attend college. This helped the non-terminated tribes, but individuals within terminated tribes were not allowed to apply for these funds. As a result, individuals who were successful and managed to graduate from high school had trouble going to college because they could not apply for scholarship assistance.\n\nThe Indian Health Service provided health care for many Indian tribes, but once a tribe was terminated all tribe members lost their eligibility. Many no longer had easy access to hospitals and had no means to get health care. For example, the Menominee people had no tribal hospitals or clinics. The tribal hospital at Keshena had to close because it did not meet state standards, and the lack of funds available prevented the county from making improvements. Along with the hospital, the tribal clinic was also closed after termination occurred. When there was a tuberculosis epidemic, 25% of the people were affected and had no means to get treatment because there was no longer a hospital or a clinic. The health standards of Indians fell well below those of whites. The Menominee tribe had three times the infant mortality rate as the rest of the state. Dental care was also affected by termination; ninety percent of school age children in the Menominee tribe were in need of dental care, which was no longer provided as a free service since they did not have tribal status. The Western Oregon tribes who were terminated, much like the Menominee tribe, also felt the effects of termination on their health care services. In a 1976 survey, 75% of the Indians in Western Oregon reported needing dental care and 30% were in need of eyeglasses. In addition to affecting adults, schools also reported that the primary problem for Indian children was the need of medical treatment that their parents could not afford.\n\nMany Indians relocated off the reservations during termination and also had no access to health care. When they relocated they were given private health care for six months, but then they had none unless they were close to a city with an Indian health care facility. Eventually the Bureau of Indian Affairs could not provide necessary health services for the many tribes that were terminated, and Congress began reform the Indian health care policy. In 1955, the Indian Health Service was transferred from the administration of the BIA to the Public Health Service, which resulted in an almost immediate improvement in funding, training and services. By 1964 the reforms were leading to progress, as Indian life expectancy rose from 51 years in 1940 to 63.5 years.\n\nTermination, although not the only cause of Indian poverty, had a significant effect on it. The Menominee tribe proves a strong example of this; although the economy of the Menominee tribe had never flourished, it became even worse after the tribe was terminated. Prior to termination, Menominee income centered around the mill which was built on a community philosophy and tried to employ as many individuals as possible. After termination the mill was run as a business and unemployment rose to between 18 and 28 percent. The mill did generate increased net sales, however; $4,865,000 in 1973 compared to $1,660,700 in 1961. Despite higher sales, the mill's net loss was also much higher in 1973 ($709,000 compared with only a net loss of $108,700 in 1961); this was largely due to the mill's property taxes increasing from $164,000 in 1961 to $607,300 in 1973. With no new industry and the new taxes being introduced, 80 percent of the tribal population fell below the poverty line. In the 1960s, they were forced to sell ancestral land and went from having $10 million in a federal reserve to being considered a \"pocket of poverty\". Welfare costs within the county also increased during the period of termination. In 1963, tribal members were given a total of $49,723 for welfare, but by 1968 the amount had nearly doubled. As termination continued, the struggles only became worse for the tribe.\n\nAs termination continued, the unemployment rates continued to increase. The Menominee tribe had 800 individuals within the tribe and 220 individuals who were unemployed in June 1968. By June 1973, right before the termination policy ended, the tribe had almost a 40 percent unemployment rate, with only 660 individuals in the tribe and 260 individuals who were unemployed.\n\nThe Menominee Indians experienced high poverty rates from the very beginning of termination, unlike the Klamath Tribe which was able to escape poverty for a brief period. The Klamath tribe had for years been living off timber and revenue from leasing tribal lands. When termination occurred, tribal land was sold and most of the Klamath tribe was considered above the poverty line, because each tribal member gained $40,000 from the sale. While they had escaped poverty briefly, their economy still suffered from termination. Most families quickly spent the money earned from the initial land sale and were forced to sell more land in order obtain food for the family. After just a few years, the Klamath tribe was in the same situation as many other tribes that were terminated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2778526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2778526", "title": "Instituto Nacional Electoral", "text": "Instituto Nacional Electoral\n\nThe Instituto Nacional Electoral (INE) (English for \"National Electoral Institute\") (formerly Federal Electoral Institute (, IFE)) is an autonomous, public organization responsible for organizing federal elections in Mexico, that is, those related to the election of the President of the United Mexican States and to the election of the members of the Lower and Upper chambers that constitute the Congress of the Union. The organization's president is .\n\nThe IFE was formally established on October 11, 1990, as a result of a series of constitutional reforms approved in 1989 and the Federal Code of Electoral Institutions and Procedures (Cofipe), a law passed in August 1990 and currently in force. The legislative branch of the federal government, the national political parties, and the general citizenry participate in its composition. \n\nSince its creation, the constitutional and legal regulations in this subject matter have experienced further major reforms, which have affected the composition and details of the IFE. The most recent of these reforms, approved in 1996, reinforced the level of independence and autonomy of the IFE by completely dissociating the executive branch from any aspect regarding its membership or functions, and by reserving the vote within all its directive bodies to the councilors, the members that do not have links to any party or to any state power or body. \n\nIFE had legal personnel and assets of its own. Its headquarters were located in the Federal District, and it was organized under a decentralized framework that allowed it to exercise its duties throughout the country.\n\nAs a result of electoral reforms initiated by President Enrique Peña Nieto, the IFE was dissolved on April 4, 2014, and was supplanted by the National Electoral Institute (, INE).\n\nIFE was also charged with the registration, funding and oversight of national political parties (as opposed to local political parties, which are registered by each state's Electoral Institute). Rules and guidelines for the registration of national political parties are outlined in the Federal Code of Electoral Institutions and Procedures.\n\nIn addition, IFE could register national political associations, which are intended to assist in the development of democratic life and the country's political culture, as well as being intended to create a better informed public opinion. The creation of a national political association is usually regarded as the first step towards the creation of a full-fledged political party.\n\nIn order to guarantee a professional and specialized performance of its responsibilities, the IFE used a special system of recruitment, selection, training, and evaluation of qualified staff to provide electoral services, especially in its fundamental areas, which are the ones directly linked with the preparation and organization of elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "4362866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4362866", "title": "Labour Inspection (Agriculture) Convention, 1969", "text": "Labour Inspection (Agriculture) Convention, 1969\n\nLabour Inspection (Agriculture) Convention, 1969 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1969, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to labour inspection in agriculture...\n\nAs of 2014, the convention has been ratified by 53 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "18401357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18401357", "title": "Light clay", "text": "Light clay\n\nLight clay (also light straw clay, light clay straw, slipstraw) is a natural building material used to infill between a wooden frame in a timber framed building using a combination of clay and straw, woodchips or some other lighter material.\n\nA mixture of clay and straw was used as an infill material for timber framed building from at least the 12th century in Germany and elsewhere in Europe. Renewed interest in traditional building methods developed from the 1980s after which various natural building architects and builders started promoting the use of light clay.\n\nLocal clay, often local subsoil, is mixed into a slurry with water and then combined with straw or wood chip or other similar material. Wood chips can vary in size from sawdust to chip 5cm in diameter. The ratio of clay to other ingredients can be adapted to either increase thermal mass or insulation properties. The mixture is provided with additional structural strength using wattles. When used externally it can be protected with a Lime render or a clay render.\n\n"}
{"id": "14513732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14513732", "title": "Louis Notari Library", "text": "Louis Notari Library\n\nThe Bibliothèque Louis Notari (in English : \"Louis Notari Library\") is the National library of Monaco, founded in 1909. It has been the legal deposit and copyright library for Monaco since 1925. It has more than 400,000 books. It is named for Monegasque writer Louis Notari.\n\n"}
{"id": "17263079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17263079", "title": "Manuel de Lardizábal y Uribe", "text": "Manuel de Lardizábal y Uribe\n\nManuel Miguel de Lardizábal y Uribe (1744–1820) was a Novohispanic penologist who was an academician of the Real Academia Española de la Lengua from 1775 to 1820. He seems to have been the successor to chair C of his father in law, Academician from 1746 to 1775 Francisco Antonio de Angulo.\n\nKing Charles III of Spain tried in 1764 to bring back a law of 1734 by his father King Philip V of Spain whereby even thieves operating in Madrid could be tried and executed even if no murder was involved in the thieving. The royal council pointed out to him that either victims or witnesses would default collaboration with Justice by the general popular feeling that the punishment could be disproportionate with people robbing only money, jewels, etc. while saving the lives of the persons being robbed. The King was thus obliged to keep his ideas on public order to himself and/or educated listeners.\n\nFurther, lawyer Acevedo published in 1770 a dissertation against torture, as being in conflict with Nature Rights and public decency within the Social Body. The lawyer politician from Zaragoza, Manuel de Roda y Arrieta, managed to get Charles III and his Royal Council deliberating around changes into the Penal Legislation, whereby capital punishment and/or extensive terms rotting in prisons could better be modified to convicts performing useful works needed by the public interest.\n\nThese moves, prior to 1776, where the king and his royal council echoed letters of intent dated 1776 through reflections on the significant works by Cesare Beccaria, brought about the publication in 1782 by Manuel de Lardizábal of his \"Discurso sobre las penas contrahido a las leyes criminales de España para facilitar su reforma\". He cites Frenchman Montesquieu, Guillaume-François Le Trosne, with his \"Réflexions sur la réforme de la legislation universelle\", the German Samuel von Pufendorf, the Dutch Hugo Grotius, the Italian Beccaria, and the reflections on the degradation applying torture of the Frenchman Joseph Michel Antoine Servan.\n\n"}
{"id": "53661631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53661631", "title": "Medical Law Review", "text": "Medical Law Review\n\nMedical Law Review () is published by Oxford University Press. It was first published in 1997 and publishes peer-reviewed scholarly articles, notes, reports, and book reviews. It is current edited by Hazel Biggs and Suzanne Ost.\nA ranking of UK law journals based on statistical data from the 2001 Research Assessment Exercise places the Medical Law Review as the leading medical law journal. It is widely regarded as a leading medical law journal.\n"}
{"id": "42101389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42101389", "title": "Military Justice Improvement Act", "text": "Military Justice Improvement Act\n\nSenate Bill 1752, more commonly known as the Military Justice Improvement Act (MJIA), was introduced by U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) in 2013 as an attempt to reform procedures for determinations to proceed to trial by court-martial for certain offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice and for other purposes. The focus of the bill is to address the way that sexual assault in the United States military is handled through the military justice system and the chain of command. The bill has been criticized as potentially leading to a decrease in sexual assault prosecutions and in the protections offered to alleged victims of sexual assault. . Many support an alternative bill championed by Senator Claire McCaskill, D-Missouri. \n"}
{"id": "57794720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57794720", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Armenia)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Armenia)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of Armenia (\"Հայաստանի արդարադատության նախարարություն\") is an Armenian government agency which possesses executive authority and executes policies of the Government of Armenia in sectors that are closely associated with laws and regulations. The ministry oversees the operations of the following agencies: \n\n\nThe ministry was founded in 1920 under the government of the newly formed Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic.\n\nIn 1920, the Revolutionary Committee of the Armenian SSR founded the People's Commissariat of Justice, which began to control the Armenian prosecutor's office in December 1923. The Communist Party of Armenia was in-active from 1930 to 1933, of which during those three years, the justice system of Armenia was administered by the Procurator General of the Soviet Union and the Supreme Court of the USSR. In 1936, the prosecutor's office and the investigative bodies were separated from the People's Court of Justice, and the People's Commissariat was reorganized into the Ministry of Justice. It operated until 1959, when it's functions were exercised by the Supreme Court until the 1970s. By ordee of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR of November 2, 1970, the Ministry of Justice of the Armenian SSR was reestablished and became the precursor to the Ministry of Justice of Armenia which was founded in 1991, following the USSR's demise.\n\n"}
{"id": "20774241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20774241", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Iraq)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Iraq)\n\nEstablished in 1920, the Ministry of Justice of Iraq (MoJ) is the federal government ministry concerned with judicial and prosecutorial training, publishing the Official Gazette, notaries public, deeds and records, and since 5 June 2004, prisons. In 2007, the ministry possessed a staff of 13,619. Also, 130 courthouses and headquarters are located at the Ministry of Justice Building.\n\n\nIraqi Correctional Service is a sub-agency of the MoJ that is responsible for prisons in Iraq and headed by a Director General (Juma'a Hussein Zamil).\n\nPrior to 2004, various ministries (Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (juvenile detention facilities)) and Kurdish Regional Government were charged with prions across Iraq.\nICS handles 37,681 prisoners (2009) in various facilities in the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "654223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=654223", "title": "Modbus", "text": "Modbus\n\nModbus is a serial communications protocol originally published by Modicon (now Schneider Electric) in 1979 for use with its programmable logic controllers (PLCs). Modbus has become a \"de facto\" standard communication protocol and is now a commonly available means of connecting industrial electronic devices. The main reasons for the use of Modbus in the industrial environment are:\n\nModbus enables communication among many devices connected to the same network, for example, a system that measures temperature and humidity and communicates the results to a computer. Modbus is often used to connect a supervisory computer with a remote terminal unit (RTU) in supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems. Many of the data types are named from industry usage of Ladder logic and its use in driving relays: a single-bit physical output is called a \"coil\", and a single-bit physical input is called a \"discrete input\" or a \"contact\".\n\nThe development and update of Modbus protocols has been managed by the Modbus Organization since April 2004, when Schneider Electric transferred rights to that organization. The Modbus Organization is an association of users and suppliers of Modbus-compliant devices that advocates for the continued use of the technology.\n\nThe following is a table of object types provided by a Modbus slave device to a Modbus master device:\nVersions of the Modbus protocol exist for serial port and for Ethernet and other protocols that support the Internet protocol suite. There are many variants of Modbus protocols:\n\nData model and function calls are identical for the first 4 variants of protocols; only the encapsulation is different. However the variants are not interoperable, nor are the frame formats.\n\nEach device intended to communicate using Modbus is given a unique address. In serial and MB+ networks, only the node assigned as the Master may initiate a command. On Ethernet, any device can send out a Modbus command, although usually only one master device does so. A Modbus command contains the Modbus address of the device it is intended for (1 to 247). Only the intended device will act on the command, even though other devices might receive it (an exception is specific broadcastable commands sent to node 0, which are acted on but not acknowledged). All Modbus commands contain checksum information to allow the recipient to detect transmission errors. The basic Modbus commands can instruct an RTU to change the value in one of its registers, control or read an I/O port, and command the device to send back one or more values contained in its registers.\n\nThere are many modems and gateways that support Modbus, as it is a very simple and often copied protocol. Some of them were specifically designed for this protocol. Different implementations use wireline, wireless communication, such as in the ISM band, and even Short Message Service (SMS) or General Packet Radio Service (GPRS). One of the more common designs of wireless networks makes use of mesh networking. Typical problems that designers have to overcome include high latency and timing issues.\n\nA Modbus frame is composed of an Application Data Unit (ADU), which encloses a Protocol Data Unit (PDU):\nAll Modbus variants choose one of the following frame formats.\n\nNote about the CRC:\nAddress, function, data, and LRC are all capital hexadecimal readable pairs of characters representing 8-bit values (0–255). For example, 122 (7 × 16 + 10) will be represented as codice_7.\n\nLRC is calculated as the sum of 8-bit values, negated (two's complement) and encoded as an 8-bit value. Example: if address, function, and data encode as 247, 3, 19, 137, 0, and 10, their sum is 416. Two's complement (−416) trimmed to 8 bits is 96 (e.g. 256 × 2 − 416), which will be represented as codice_8 in hexadecimal. Hence the following frame: codice_9.\nUnit identifier is used with Modbus/TCP devices that are composites of several Modbus devices, e.g. on Modbus/TCP to Modbus RTU gateways. In such case, the unit identifier tells the Slave Address of the device behind the gateway. Natively Modbus/TCP-capable devices usually ignore the Unit Identifier.\n\nThe byte order for values in Modbus data frames is big-endian (MSB, most significant byte of a value received first).\n\nThe various reading, writing and other operations are categorised as follows. The most primitive reads and writes are shown in bold. A number of sources use alternative terminology, for example \"Force Single Coil\" where the standard uses \"Write Single Coil\".<br>\nProminent entities within a Modbus slave are:\n\nRequests and responses follow frame formats described above. This section gives details of data formats of most used function codes.\n\nRequest:\n\nNormal response:\n\nValue of each coil/discrete input is binary (0 for off, 1 for on). First requested coil/discrete input is stored as least significant bit of first byte in reply.<br>\nIf number of coils/discrete inputs is not a multiple of 8, most significant bit(s) of last byte will be stuffed with zeros.<br>\nFor example, if eleven coils are requested, two bytes of values are needed. Suppose states of those successive coils are \"on, off, on, off, off, on, on, on, off, on, on\", then the response will be codice_10 in hexadecimal.\n\nBecause the byte count returned in the reply message is only 8 bits wide and the protocol overhead is 5 bytes, a maximum of 2000 (250 x 8) discrete inputs or coils can be read at once.\n\nRequest:\nNormal response: same as request.\n\nRequest:\nValue of each coil is binary (0 for off, 1 for on). First requested coil is stored as least significant bit of first byte in request.<br>\nIf number of coils is not a multiple of 8, most significant bit(s) of last byte should be stuffed with zeros. See example for function codes 1 and 2.<br>\n<br>\nNormal response:\n\nRequest:\nNormal response:\nBecause the number of bytes for register values is 8-bit wide, only 125 registers can be read at once.\n\nRequest:\nNormal response: same as request.\n\nRequest:\nBecause register values are 2-bytes wide and only 127 bytes worth of values can be sent, only 63 holding registers can be preset/written at once.\n\nNormal response:\n\nFor a normal response, slave repeats the function code. Should a slave want to report an error, it will reply with the requested function code plus 128 (hex codice_11) (3 becomes 131 = hex codice_12), and will only include one byte of data, known as the \"exception code\".\n\nSome conventions govern how access to Modbus entities (coils, discrete inputs, input registers, holding registers) are referenced.\n\nIt is important to make a distinction between entity \"number\" and entity \"address\":\n\nIn the traditional standard, \"numbers\" for those entities start with a digit, followed by a number of 4 digits in the range 1–9,999:\nThis translates into \"addresses\" between 0 and 9,998 in data frames.\nFor example, in order to read holding registers starting at \"number\" 40001, corresponding \"address\" in the data frame will be 0 with a function code of 3 (as seen above). For holding registers starting at \"number\" 40100, \"address\" will be 99. Etc.\n\nThis limits the number of \"addresses\" to 9,999 for each entity. A \"de facto\" referencing extends this to the maximum of 65,536.\nIt simply consists of adding one digit to the previous list:\nWhen using the extended referencing, all \"number\" references must have exactly 6 digits. This avoids confusion between coils and other entities. For example, to know the difference between holding register #40001 and coil #40001, if coil #40001 is the target, it must appear as #040001.\n\nAnother \"de facto\" protocol closely related to Modbus appeared after it, and was defined by PLC brand April Automates, the result of a collaborative effort between French companies Renault Automation and Merlin Gerin et Cie in 1985: JBUS. Differences between Modbus and JBUS at that time (number of entities, slave stations) are now irrelevant as this protocol almost disappeared with the April PLC series which AEG Schneider Automation bought in 1994 and then made obsolete. However the name JBUS has survived to some extent.\n\nJBUS supports function codes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 15, and 16 and thus all the entities described above. However numbering is different with JBUS:\n\nAlmost all implementations have variations from the official standard. Different varieties might not communicate correctly between equipment of different suppliers. Some of the most common variations are:\n\n\nModbus Organization, Inc. is a trade association for the promotion and development of Modbus protocol.\n\nDespite the name, Modbus Plus is not a variant of Modbus. It is a different protocol, involving token passing.\n\nIt is a proprietary specification of Schneider Electric, though it is unpublished rather than patented. It is normally implemented using a custom chipset available only to partners of Schneider. \n\n"}
{"id": "28206140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28206140", "title": "Morris v. United States", "text": "Morris v. United States\n\nMorris v. United States, 174 U.S. 196 (1899), is a 5-to-2 ruling by the United States Supreme Court which held that the bed under the Potomac River between the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Virginia belonged to the United States government rather than nearby private landowners on the District of Columbia side.\n\nOn June 20, 1632, Charles I, King of England, made a land grant in North America to Cecil Calvert, 2nd Baron Baltimore which became the Province of Maryland (later the state of Maryland). This grant set the boundary of Maryland at the low-water mark of the southern bank of the Potomac River. On September 27, 1688, King James II made a land grant in North American to Thomas Colepeper, 2nd Baron Colepeper which became the Colony of Virginia (later the state of Virginia). This grant designated \"the Potomac River\" as the boundary of Virginia. The conflicting grants led to a long-running border dispute between Maryland and Virginia. The two states settled navigational and riparian water rights in a compact in 1785, but the boundary dispute continued.\n\nIn 1788, the United States Constitution was ratified. The Constitution established an independent zone known as the District of Columbia for the seat of the new government. The Residence Act of 1790 provided for the new capital to be located on the Potomac River, and President George Washington was authorized by the United States Congress to determine the exact location (which he did a year later). The District of Columbia Organic Act of 1801 formally established Congressional jurisdiction over the new District. The Virginia retrocession of 1846-1847 returned that portion of the District of Columbia on the Virginia site of the Potomac River to the state of Virginia. This left in doubt the exact position of the District's border with Virginia (just as Maryland's southern border remained in doubt).\nShortly after the creation of the District of Columbia, the United States government sold certain plots of land to James M. Marshall; his brother, John Marshall (later Chief Justice of the United States); John L. Kidwell; the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company; and several others.\n\nMaryland and Virginia agreed to arbitrate their dispute, and in 1877 the Black-Jenkins Award (as the decision of the arbitration panel is known) placed Virginia's boundary with Maryland at the low-water mark on the Virginia side of the Potomac River.\n\nIn 1882, Congress passed legislation providing for the dredging of the Potomac River, and for the dredged material to be used to fill in various tidal basins, marshes, and shores. This created extensive new land along the northern shore of the Potomac River—land which adjoined that of the heirs of James Marshall, John Marshall, and John Kidwell, and the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company. Congress passed legislation in August 1886 directing the Attorney General of the United States to protect the interests of the United States to the new land, and giving the courts jurisdiction over these claims.\n\nThe heirs and other claimants sued to win title to the lands.\n\nAssociate Justice George Shiras, Jr. wrote the majority opinion for the Court, joined by Chief Justice Melville Fuller and Justices John Marshall Harlan, David Josiah Brewer, and Henry Billings Brown.\n\nJustice Shiras first laid out the facts of the case in a lengthy syllabus, and established various classes of claimants. The first issue Justice Shiras confronted was whether any of the parties could lay claim to the bed of the Potomac River (and thus the reclaimed lands built by the government). Shiras held that none of the heirs on the Virginia side of the river could make any claim to the riverbed. Neither Lord Colepeper, his heir Thomas Fairfax, 6th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, nor any of Fairfax's heirs had ever seriously asserted title to the riverbed, and the Black-Jenkins Award clearly re-established that the boundary of Virginia ended at the low-water mark and did not extend to the riverbed. Relying on the Supreme Court's previous decision in \"Martin v. Waddell\", 41 U.S. 367 (1842), Justice Shiras argued that none of the Maryland landholders could claim title to the riverbed, either. The majority held the original landholders were to hold the river and its bed in trust for the public, and that after the American Revolution these public trusts passed into the possession of the state (in this case, Maryland and in due time the District of Columbia). Shiras distinguished \"Fairfax's Devisee v. Hunter's Lessee\", 11 U.S. 603 (1813) by noting that \"Fairfax's Devisee\" did not involve Maryland or any Marylander claimant. Even if the riverbed had been assigned to Lord Fairfax and his heirs, Shiras concluded, the logic of \"Martin v. Waddell\" still held and delivered the lands into the control of the federal government.\n\nThe majority dismissed the Kidwell heirs' claim to the newly created land under the same reasoning applied to the Marshall heirs. However, Kidwell's heirs noted that Congress had conveyed the property to Kidwell under a resolution adopted on February 16, 1839. The majority held, however, that Congress did not intend by that resolution to convey the riverbed. The majority relied heavily on the discussion in \"Illinois Central Railroad v. Illinois\", 146 U.S. 387 (1892), \"Shively v. Bowlby\", 152 U.S. 1 (1894), and \"Mann v. Tacoma Land Company\", 153 U.S. 273 (1894), and from the express language of the resolution (which withheld from the grant any lands for public purposes). Shiras produced a highly detailed history of the establishment of the boundaries of the District of Columbia, the plots within its boundaries, and how these plots were conveyed to the private landowners. He concluded that none of the survey reports conveyed an interest in any riverbed. Shiras also noted that in \"Potomac Steam-Boat Co. v. Upper Potomac Steam-Boat Co.\", 109 U.S. 672 (1884), the Supreme Court had held that public streets were not part of any plot, and that Water Street (which bounded the Kidwell land to the south) distinctly separated the private land not only from the street itself but also from the newly created lands beyond it.\n\nAs for the canal company's claims, the majority held that since none of the private landowners held riparian rights, the company could not obtain such rights from the private landowners. Nor was there any evidence that Congress was relinquishing its rights to Water Street or the river. The court dismissed the claims of the last landowners, whose property lay between Water Street and the shore, as being improperly based on unofficial land records and for being based on maps and other documents which did not accurately reflect the physical land.\n\nThe judgment was affirmed.\n\nJustice Edward Douglass White, joined by Justice Rufus Wheeler Peckham, dissented.\n\nJustice White concluded that nothing in the record showed that the United States intended to withdraw the riparian water rights of the landholders when it built Water Street and cut the landholders off from the Potomac River. White also engaged in a lengthy discussion of the laying out of the city's boundaries, and the conveyance of private property to the federal government. There could be no doubt, White argued, that the private landowners intended to give all of their riparian rights to the federal government, and there could be no doubt that the federal government intended to give all riparian rights to those to whom it sold the land. The majority's argument led to a tautology in which no riparian rights existed.\n\nJustice White also examined the conveyance of the federal government's land to the new private landowners in depth as well. In his discussion, White interpreted the \"incorrect\" maps as indicating the riparian rights to which the new private landowners were entitled (rather than a problem of inaccurate mapping). White concluded several times that the federal government fully intended to convey riparian rights to the new landowners because the government and its agents repeatedly indicated in letters, memoranda, contracts of sale, and other documents and statements its expectation that the waterside landowners were to build and maintain docks, wharves, and quays and improve the riparian rights they enjoyed. To assume otherwise, White concluded, was nonsensical. Either the federal government intended to convey riparian rights, or the government deceptively contemplated building Water Street and cutting the new landowners off from their access. \"...the first hypothesis is the one naturally to be assumed.\" \"The contracts for the sale of water lots with riparian rights attached, the reports of the surveyors, and the action of the commissioners, all blend into a harmonious and perfect whole, working from an original conception to a successful consummation of a well-understood result. The contrary view produces discord and disarrangement...\"\n\nWhite also discussed the District of Columbia's lengthy history regarding the regulation of wharves and docks. In his view, the city's treatment of the wharves demonstrated that the wharves were private property on private riverbed land, not private property licensed to be emplaced on a riverbed held in the public trust. White interpreted \"Potomac Steam-Boat Co.\" as superimposing an easement on top of existing riparian water rights. It was not, as the majority held, the government's purpose all along to bound the plots of land with Water Street.\n\nJustice White would have overturned the judgment of the lesser court for determination of the riparian rights of the landowners in question.\n\nIn \"Morris v. United States\", the Supreme Court dealt with what was known as a \"top common,\" a tract of land between a river and the land intended to be occupied and sold to private landowners. Such practices were common in colonial America. \"Morris v. United States\" is considered an important case in the evolution of the law of rivers, streams, lakes, and other bodies of water, for it established that such bodies of water and their beds belonged to the public in common and were held in trust by the state for its citizens. The Supreme Court further developed this public trust doctrine in \"Illinois Central Railroad v. Illinois\" in 1892 and more recently in \"Utah Division of State Lands v. United States\", 482 U.S. 193, 203 (1987).\n\n"}
{"id": "46541268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46541268", "title": "Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Manufacturing Co.", "text": "Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Manufacturing Co.\n\nMotion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co., 243 U.S. 502 (1917), is United States Supreme Court decision that is notable as an early example of the patent misuse doctrine. It held that, because a patent grant is limited to the invention described in the claims of the patent, the patent law does not empower the patent owner, by notices attached to the patented article, to extend the scope of the patent monopoly by restricting the use of the patented article to materials necessary for their operation but forming no part of the patented invention, or to place downstream restrictions on the articles making them subject to conditions as to use. The decision overruled \"The Button-Fastener Case\", and \"Henry v. A.B. Dick Co.\", which had held such restrictive notices effective and enforceable.\n\nThe Motion Picture Patents Company (MPP) was the assignee of a number of patents covering motion picture projectors, including US Pat. No. 707,934, on a part of the mechanism used in motion picture Projectors to feed a film through the machine with a regular, uniform, and accurate movement. MPP granted to the Precision Machine Company (PMC) a license to manufacture and sell machines embodying the patented invention. The license provided that every machine PMC sold must be sold subject to a restriction and condition that the machine \"shall be used solely for exhibiting or projecting motion pictures\" embodying \"the inventions of reissued letters patent No. 12,192\" and leased by a licensee of [MPP].\" The license also provided that the machine must have a plate attached to it stating, \"The sale and purchase of this machine gives only the right to use it solely with moving pictures\" embodying \"the inventions of reissued letters patent No. 12,192\" and leased by a licensee of [MPP].\"\n\nPMC made and sold one of the patented machines to the owner of the Seventy-Second Street Playhouse (a movie house on 72nd Street in New York City), with a plate containing the required notice. Prague Amusement Company (Prague) then leased the Seventy-Second Street Playhouse, and acquired the machine in question as a part of the equipment of the leased playhouse. Also, at that time, the Universal Film Manufacturing Company (Universal) made two films that were supplied to Prague for use on the machine. Prague used the machine to exhibit the films.\n\nMPP sent letters protesting the alleged infringement of its patent, and then sued Universal, Prague, and the owner of the movie house. It was established at trial that 40,000 of the MPP machines are now in use in the US, and that the patented mechanism is the only one with which motion picture films can be used successfully. The district court held that the post-sale limitation on the use of the machine attempted to be made by the notice attached to it was invalid, and that the purchaser and its lessee had an implied license to use the machine as it had been used. The district court dismissed the case and the Second Circuit affirmed the district court.\n\nThe Supreme Court, in an opinion written by Justice Clarke affirmed the judgment. Justice Holmes, joined by Justices McKenna and Van Devanter, dissented.\n\nJustice Clarke began his analysis by observing that the patent statute does not provide for and thus authorize notices of the type involved here. Therefore, \"whatever validity it [the notice] has must be derived from the general, and not from the patent, law.\" The statute gives the patentee the exclusive right to make, sell, and use the patented article. In interpreting the statute, three important rules have been declared by the Court:\n\nAccordingly:\nThese rules of law make it very clear that the scope of the grant which may be made to an inventor in a patent, pursuant to the statute, must be limited to the invention described in the claims of his patent, and, to determine what grant may lawfully be so made, we must hold fast to the language of the act of Congress providing for it.\n\nThis patent is only on the film projector mechanism described and claimed in the patent, the Court said. By the same token:\n\nIt is not concerned with, and has nothing to do with, the materials with which or on which the machine operates. The grant is of the exclusive right to use the mechanism to produce the result with any appropriate material, and the materials with which the machine is operated are no part of the patented machine or of the combination which produces the patented result. The difference is clear and vital between the exclusive right to use the machine, which the law gives to the inventor, and the right to use it exclusively with prescribed materials to which such a license notice as we have here seeks to restrict it.\n\nUntil recently, the Court said, this plain meaning of the statute was generally understood as the law. But with the growth of corporations the idea had arisen \"of gathering great profits in small payments, which are not realized or resented, from many, rather than smaller or even equal profits in larger payments\" and so patentees have come to seek to assert \"the right to restrict the use of [patented machinery] to materials or supplies not described in the patent, and not, by its terms, made a part of the thing patented.\" A majority of the Supreme Court had accepted that principle several years earlier in \"Henry v. A.B. Dick Co.\"\n\nThe Court traced the evolution of this idea and explained why a majority of the Court rejected it:\n\nThe construction of the patent law which justifies as valid the restriction of patented machines, by notice, to use with unpatented supplies necessary in the operation of them, but which are no part of them, is believed to have originated in \"Heaton-Peninsular Button-Fastener Co. v. Eureka Specialty Co.\" (which has come to be widely referred to as the \"Button-Fastener Case\"), decided by . . . the Sixth Circuit in 1896.\n\n. . . This decision [\"Button-Fastener\"] proceeds upon the argument that, since the patentee may withhold his patent altogether from public use, he must logically and necessarily be permitted to impose any conditions which he chooses upon any use which he may allow of it. The defect in this thinking springs from the substituting of inference and argument for the language of the statute, and from failure to distinguish between the rights which are given to the inventor by the patent law and which he may assert against all the world through an infringement proceeding, and rights which he may create for himself by private contract which, however, are subject to the rules of general as distinguished from those of the patent, law. While it is true that, under the statutes as they were (and now are), a patentee might withhold his patented machine from public use, yet, if he consented to use it himself or through others, . . . he is thereby restricted to the use of the invention as it is described in the claims of his patent, and not as it may be expanded by limitations as to materials and supplies necessary to the operation of it, imposed by mere notice to the public.\n\nThe . . . obvious possibilities for gain in the method which it approved led to an immediate and widespread adoption of the system, in which these restrictions expanded into more and more comprehensive forms until at length the case at bar is reached, with a machine sold and paid for, yet claimed still to be subject not only to restriction as to supplies to be used, but also subject to any restrictions or conditions as to use . . . which the company which authorized its sale may see fit, after the sale, from time to time to impose. The perfect instrument of favoritism and oppression which such a system of doing business, if valid, would put into the control of the owner of such a patent should make courts astute, if need be, to defeat its operation. If these restrictions were sustained, plainly the plaintiff might, for its own profit or that of its favorites, . . . ruin anyone unfortunate enough to be dependent upon its confessedly important improvements for the doing of business.\n\nJustice Clarke denied the legitimacy of this doctrine, because it extended the power of the patent monopoly from the claimed and patented invention—the mechanism described in the patent—to the unpatented supplies used with the mechanism, which were no part of the statutory monopoly:\n\n[F]or the reasons stated in this opinion, we are convinced that the exclusive right granted in every patent must be limited to the invention described in the claims of the patent, and that it is not competent for the owner of a patent, by notice attached to its machine, to in effect extend the scope of its patent monopoly by restricting the use of it to materials necessary in its operation, but which are no part of the patented invention, or to send its machines forth into the channels of trade of the country subject to conditions as to use or royalty to be paid, to be imposed thereafter at the discretion of such patent owner. The patent law furnishes no warrant for such a practice, and the cost, inconvenience, and annoyance to the public which the opposite conclusion would occasion forbid it.\n\nThe Court therefore concluded, first, that \"Henry v. A.B. Dick\" must be overruled. Second, the notice on the plate affixed to the machine contains an invalid restriction that the machine must be used only with film embodying the invention of the Edison patent that expired in 1914. \"[S]uch a film is obviously not any part of the invention of the patent in suit.\" Therefore, the notice \"is an attempt, without statutory warrant, to continue the patent monopoly in this particular character of film after it has expired,\" and to enforce it \"would be to create a monopoly in the manufacture and use of moving picture films wholly outside of the patent in suit and of the patent law as we have interpreted it.\" This notice restriction is contrary to public policy:\n\nA restriction which would give to the plaintiff such a potential power for evil over an industry which must be recognized as an important element in the amusement life of the nation, under the conclusions we have stated in this opinion, is plainly void because wholly without the scope and purpose of our patent laws, and because, if sustained, it would be gravely injurious to that public interest, which we have seen is more a favorite of the law than is the promotion of private fortunes.\n\nJustice Holmes had been part of the majority of the Court that endorsed the inherency doctrine in \"Henry v. A.B. Dick\", and he strongly dissented from its rejection and overruling in the \"Motion Picture Patents\" case. Justices McKenna and Van Devanter, also in the majority in \"A.B. Dick\", joined the Holmes dissent here. Holmes reasoned that a patentee may keep his invention out of use for the term of the patent, for whatever reason he may choose. \"So much being undisputed, I cannot understand why he may not keep it out of use unless the licensee, or, for the matter of that, the buyer, will use some unpatented thing in connection with it.\" He added, \"\"Non debet, cui plus licet, quod minus est non licere\".\"\n\nHolmes did allow, however, \"No doubt this principle might be limited or excluded in cases where the condition tends to bring about a state of things that there is a predominant public interest to prevent.\" But he was quick to add that in his view \"there is no predominant public interest to prevent a patented teapot or film feeder from being kept from the public, because, as I have said, the patentee may keep them tied up at will while his patent lasts.\" He also saw no problem in the alleged extension of the patent monopoly from the claimed mechanism to the films made the condition of use of the mechanism. That effect occurs \"only to the extent of the desire for the teapot or film feeder, and if the owner prefers to keep the pot or the feeder unless you will buy his tea or films, I cannot see, in allowing him the right to do so, anything more than an ordinary incident of ownership.\"\n\nThe \"Motion Picture Patents\" case is often credited with forming the basis for the Supreme Court’s creation of an equitable defense of patent misuse to a claim of patent infringement. To the extent, however, that the misuse doctrine (at least when it applies to sold patented articles and restricts purchasers' use of the articles) is an aspect or outgrowth of the exhaustion doctrine, it is preceded by such decisions as \"Adams v. Burke\".\n\nIm \"Carbice Corp. v. American Patents Development Corp.\", the Supreme Court considered a case in which a patentee, who had a patent on a \"package consisting of a protective casing of insulating material having packed therein a quantity of frozen carbon dioxide [\"dry ice\"] in an insulating container and a quantity of freezable product in freezing proximity to said frozen carbon dioxide,\" where the frozen carbon dioxide was placed at the center, surrounded by the freezable product, surrounded on the outside by the packaging material. The patentee's exclusive licensee sold dry ice to its customers with an implied license to use the container invention without the payment of royalty, but subject to the condition that the customers use the dry ice only with containers from a designated source and that they use the containers only with dry ice bought from the licensee. Carbice, the defendant in this case, sold dry ice with knowledge that it would be used by the purchasers in packages like those described in the patent. The patentee and exclusive licensee sued Carbice for contributing to infringement by the purchasers of its dry ice. The Supreme Court said:\n\nThe relief here sought is indistinguishable from that denied in the \"Motion Picture Case\". There, it was held that to permit the patent owner to \"derive its profit not from the invention on which the law gives it a monopoly, but from the unpatented supplies with which it is used\" is \"wholly without the scope of the patent monopoly.\" If a monopoly could be so expanded, the owner of a patent for a product might conceivably monopolize the commerce in a large part of unpatented materials used in its manufacture. The owner of a patent for a machine might thereby secure a partial monopoly on the unpatented supplies consumed in its operation. The owner of a patent for a process might secure a partial monopoly on the unpatented material employed in it.\n\nThe Court therefore denied relief for the claimed infringement.\n\nIn \"Leitch Manufacturing Co. v. Barber Co.\", the Supreme Court extended the doctrine of the \"Motion Picture Case\" case. Barber had a patent on a process for improving the curing of concrete pavement by spreading tar on it to inhibit evaporation (thereby giving the water molecules more time to bond to the concrete and make it harder). Leitch sold tar to a road builder, knowing that it was to be used in accordance with the patented method. Barber sued Leitch for contributory infringement. Barber had exploited his patent by selling tar to road builders with the understanding that they could use the patented method with Barber's tar; it granted no written license.\n\nBarber argued that \"Carbice\" did not apply because it granted no license on a condition of tying supplies. The Court said that it had adopted \"a method of doing the business which is the practical equivalent of granting a written license with a condition that the patented method may be practiced\" only with tar purchased from it.\" Accordingly, \"the sole purpose to which the patent is put is thereby to suppress competition in the production and sale of staple unpatented material for this use in road building.\" The Court held that the doctrine of the \"Carbice\" case applied:\n\nBy the rule there declared every use of a patent as a means of obtaining a limited monopoly of unpatented material is prohibited. It applies whether the patent be for a machine, a product, or a process. It applies whatever the nature of the device by which the owner of the patent seeks to effect such unauthorized extension of the monopoly.\n\n\"Morton Salt Co. v. G.S. Suppiger Co.\", was the first case in which the Court expressly labeled as “misuse” the \"Motion Picture Patent\"<wbr>/<wbr>\"Carbice\" defense to a charge of patent infringement and created the present blanket remedy in infringement cases of unenforceability of the misused patent. Suppiger had a patent on a machine for dispensing salt tablets into food cans in the canning process. It leased the patented machines to canners and required lessee<wbr>/<wbr>licensees of its patent to buy their salt tablets used in the machines from its subsidiary. Morton leased machines to the canners that Suppiger charged infringed its patent.\n\nBased on these facts, the Court said, \"It thus appears that [Suppiger] is making use of its patent monopoly to restrain competition in the marketing of unpatented articles, salt tablets, for use with the patented machines, and is aiding in the creation of a limited monopoly in the tablets not within that granted by the patent.\" Citing \"Motion Picture Patents\", \"Carbice\", and \"Leitch\", the Court stated, \"It is the established rule that a patentee who has granted a license on condition that the patented invention be used by the licensee only with unpatented materials furnished by the licensor may not restrain as a contributory infringer one who sells to the licensee like materials for like use.\"\n\nSuch conduct is contrary to the public policy of the United States:\n\n[T]he the public policy which includes inventions within the granted monopoly excludes from it all that is not embraced in the invention. It equally forbids the use of the patent to secure an exclusive right or limited monopoly not granted by the Patent Office and which it is contrary to public policy to grant.\n\nCourts of equity may withhold their aid from a party that asserts a right that it is using contrary to the public interest. Suppiger argued that \"Motion Picture Patents\", \"Carbice\", and \"Leitch\" all involved contributory infringement actions where the patentee sought to restrain a defendant from selling unpatented supplies to licensees, but here, Suppiger said:\n\n\nThe Court did not accept the attempted distinction:\n\n[A]dditional considerations must be taken into account where maintenance of the suit concerns the public interest, as well as the private interests of suitors. Where the patent is used as a means of restraining competition with the patentee's sale of an unpatented product, the successful prosecution of an infringement suit, even against one who is not a competitor in such sale, is a powerful aid to the maintenance of the attempted monopoly of the unpatented article, and is thus a contributing factor in thwarting the public policy underlying the grant of the patent.\n\nThe Court explained that equity precedent supported denial of relief that would further wrongdoing by the party seeking the relief and thus harm the public interest:\n\nEquity may rightly withhold its assistance from such a use of the patent by declining to entertain a suit for infringement, and should do so at least until it is made to appear that the improper practice has been abandoned and that the consequences of the misuse of the patent have been dissipated.<br><br>\nThe reasons for barring the prosecution of such a suit against one who is not a competitor with the patentee in the sale of the unpatented product are fundamentally the same as those which preclude an infringement suit against a licensee who has violated a condition of the license by using with the licensed machine a competing unpatented article [as protection] \"Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co\". . . . It is the adverse effect upon the public interest of a successful infringement suit in conjunction with the patentee's course of conduct which disqualifies him to maintain the suit, regardless of whether the particular defendant has suffered from the misuse of the patent.\n\nThese considerations made it unnecessary, the Court added, to decide whether Suppiger had committed an antitrust violation \"for we conclude that, in any event, the maintenance of the present suit to restrain petitioner's manufacture or sale of the alleged infringing machines is contrary to public policy, and that the district court rightly dismissed the complaint for want of equity.\"\n\nIn \"Kimble v. Marvel\" in 2015, after some years of lower court disapproval and disregard of the patent misuse doctrine developed in \"Motion Picture Patents\", \"Carbice\", and \"Suppiger\", the Supreme Court reaffirmed its principles. In particular, the Court rejected the argument that patent misuse should track antitrust doctrine and insisted that patent misuse is based on patent policy rather than antitrust policy. This is not to say that an antitrust violation will not usually be the basis for holding unenforceable the patents misused in committing the antitrust violation, but rather that the misuse doctrine prohibits even conduct that does not rise (or sink) to the level of an antitrust violation, and where antitrust does not reach challenged conduct patent misuse will do so if patent policy so requires.\n\n● A very terse contemporary comment by \"A.M.K.\" in the \"California Law Review\" on the \"Motion Picture Patents\" case and its overruling of \"A.B. Dick\" and the \"Button-Fastener\" case stated what the following commentary by Professor Chiapetta explains in greater detail some years later. A.M.K. said:\n\nIt by no means follows that because a patentee may withhold the use of the patented article entirely he may license its use with any conditions he chooses. It may be better that the public should not enjoy the article at all than that it should be used under restrictions obnoxious to public policy.\n\n● A 1918 Note in the \"Iowa Law Review\" is critical of the Holmes dissent as well. \"Mr. Justice Holmes, who has been the most consistent defender of the restriction theory since its inception, argues in the latest decision that since the patentee may wholly withdraw his invention from the market, he should be permitted to sell it on any terms or conditions he may wish to impose.\" The Note writer says:\n\nThe difficulty with this reasoning is that if it proves anything, it proves too much. If it is true that because a man may withhold a patented article from the market, he may therefore impose any conditions upon its use when he sells, it should be equally true that because a man owns a horse that he need not sell, he may at the time of sale impose any conditions upon its future use.\n\nBut that cannot be a valid test, he continues, because it is against the common law. \"It is a general rule that covenants do not run with personalty and contracts restricting the use or resale of personalty cannot be annexed to the chattel so as to follow and obligate the purchaser by notice,\" citing Coke and other authorities.\n\n● New York patent attorney (later Federal Circuit judge) Giles Rich commented that \"the patent law 'went on a spree from 1896 to 1917.' \"\n\n● Professor Chiapetta compares the majority's and Holmes's dissent's respective analyses of the inherency doctrine and concludes that Holmes's analysis ignores the issue of whether the benefits of increased usage of the patented invention under a restrictive license exceed the harms resulting from the restriction. He concedes, for purposes of a \"Chicago School\" analysis, that it is true that any increased access produces some efficiency improvement. It is not true, however, he insists, that every increase in access produces a net improvement: \"That determination requires examining the harms produced by the terms of access. If those harms exceed the benefits then the transaction reduces efficient market operation overall and should be legally prohibited.\"\n\nHe explains, further, that a patentee's simple refusal to license a patent may lead to loss of efficiency but the costs are those arising from the existence of the patent system. \"If that produces net inefficiencies, the problem lies exclusively\" in the way the U.S. patent system has been set up, which is a matter of congressional choice, subject only to constitutional limitations. Privately constructed terms of access (licensing conditions) can produce additional costs, which may arise from effects of imposing conditions on the licensee. \"As the \"Motion Picture\" majority properly observes, such rights must be examined to determine whether their harms outweigh the benefits.\"\n\nThe determination of what constitutes a legally cognizable harm that may be balanced off against the benefits of increased access, to decide what is the net harm or benefit \"is the purview of general laws.” These include contract, tort, and antitrust laws. Unless the constraints of the general law are taken into account, he argues:\n\n[I]ncreased access may, in efficiency terms, be worse for society than no access at all. While the latter merely produces patent law’s internal net system efficiency improvement (additional innovation justifying the costs of reduced access), the former can impose additional costs producing a net overall efficiency decrease. Such transactions must be legally prohibited.\nThe proper question, Chiapatta insists, is whether the majority's or Holmes's legal doctrine better contributes to accomplishing the goal of net overall efficiency increase.\n\n"}
{"id": "17937456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17937456", "title": "Non-paternity event", "text": "Non-paternity event\n\nIn genetics, a non-paternity event is when someone who is presumed to be an individual's father is not in fact the biological father. This presumption may be on the part of the individual, the parents, or the physician. Non-paternity may result from sperm donation, undisclosed adoption, intercourse with multiple partners in close succession, non-consensual sex, as well as medical mistakes, for example, mixups during procedures such as in vitro fertilization and artificial insemination. Where there is uncertainty, the most reliable technique for establishing paternity is genetic testing; however, there is still a risk of error due to the potential for gene mutations or scoring errors.\n\nOverall, the incidence of misattributed paternity ranges from about 2% to 12%, though it may be higher in certain populations. The discovery of previously unsuspected or undisclosed non-paternity may have both social and medical consequences. Non-paternity that is due to a previously undisclosed extra-marital relationship often has serious consequences for a marital relationship. Non-paternity is medically relevant when interpreting the results and utility of genetic screening for hereditary illnesses.\n\nBellis et al. (2005) stated that misattributed paternity \"occurs when a child is believed to have been fathered by the husband (or partner) but is actually the progeny of another man.\" Non-paternity events are also sometimes referred to as misattributed paternity, paternal discrepancy or false paternity. Although it is sometimes referred to as paternity fraud, this suggests that the misattribution was deliberate rather than accidental. In a scientific review of non-paternity studies since the 1950s, Bellis et al. (2005) stated that knowingly covering up an accidental pregnancy that resulted from infidelity is often assumed to be the reason for non-paternity, but that there are many other reasons, \"for example, where sex with the long term partner has not produced children a woman might seek conception elsewhere.\" They said other reasons might be undisclosed adoptions, accidental misattribution resulting from multiple relationships in close succession as well as medical mistakes, such as mixups during procedures such as in vitro fertilization and artificial insemination.\n\nIn genetic genealogy the term non-paternity is often used in a wider context to indicate a break in the link between the Y-chromosome and the surname. Such a breakage may occur because of formal or informal adoption, premarital or extramarital intercourse or rape, or when individuals use a different surname than their biological father, such as their mother's maiden name, a stepfather's name, the use of aliases or a legal name change.\n\nThe most reliable test for paternity is genetic testing, sometimes referred to as DNA testing. Requirements for consent and counselling vary by country. However, genetic testing is based on probabilities and is not always definitive. Jones et al. (2010) said, \"Characteristics of the markers and the fact that they are analysed by fallible humans can result in inconsistencies that present problems for parentage analysis.\" False negatives may occur due to low quality samples, gene mutations, or genotyping errors (when a genotype is misread or inaccurately scored). There is a higher probability of accuracy when DNA from both parents can be tested. The accuracy increases even more when DNA from a sibling is available.\n\nIt is difficult to accurately estimate the incidence of misattributed paternity, and there have been large discrepancies in the research published on the topic. Often data on non-paternity rates are reported tangentially to the primary goal of research without sufficient detail, and very few studies involve randomized samples. As such, it is not possible to make valid generalizations based on a large portion of the available literature. Bellis et al. (2005) found that between 1950 and 2004, the rates of misattributed paternity published in scientific journals ranged from 0.8% to 30% with a median of 3.7%. According to a study published in the \"Lancet\", \"High rates have been quoted, but are often unsupported by any published evidence or based on unrepresentative population samples.\"\n\nTuri King and Mark Jobling of the Department of Genetics at University of Leicester called the commonly cited 30% rate of non-paternity an \"urban myth\". According to King and Jobling, the figure is around 2%. They also stated that misattributed paternity is often impacted by cultural and socioeconomic factors and that it occurs more frequently among couples who aren't married. Sociologist Michael Gilding concluded that inflated figures have been circulated by the media, the paternity testing industry, fathers' rights activists and evolutionary psychologists. He traced many of these overestimates back to a 1972 conference where non-paternity rates as high as 30% were discussed. Gilding states that these data only show the incidence of non-paternity in cases where disputed parentage was the \"reason\" for paternity testing. In situations where disputed parentage was the reason for the paternity testing, there were higher levels with an incidence of 17% to 33% (median of 26.9%). Most at risk of parental discrepancy were those born to younger parents, to unmarried couples and those of lower socio-economic status, or from certain ethnic and cultural groups.\n\nRarely, genetic testing has revealed children from multiple births to have different fathers, which is known as \"heteropaternal superfecundation\". One study estimated that the incidence of bipaternal twins born to white women in the United States is around one pair in 400. Another study found the prevalence to be approximately one pair in 13,000 cases.\n"}
{"id": "699156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=699156", "title": "None of the above", "text": "None of the above\n\n\"None of the above\", or NOTA for short, also known as \"against all\" or a \"scratch\" vote, is a ballot option in some jurisdictions or organizations, designed to allow the voter to indicate disapproval of the candidates in a voting system. It is based on the principle that consent requires the ability to withhold consent in an election, just as they can by voting \"No\" on ballot questions.\n\nEntities that include \"None of the Above\" on ballots as standard procedure include India (\"None of the above\"), Greece (λευκό, white), the U.S. state of Nevada (None of These Candidates), Ukraine (\"Проти всіх\",\" \"against all\"\"), Spain (\"voto en blanco\", \"white vote\"), and Colombia (\"voto en blanco\"). Russia had such an option on its ballots (\"Против всех,\" \"against all\") until it was abolished in 2006. Bangladesh introduced this option (\"না ভোট\") in 2008. Pakistan introduced this option on ballot papers for the 2013 Pakistan elections, but the Election Commission of Pakistan later rejected it. Beginning with the 2016 presidential election, Bulgaria introduced a 'none of the above' option, which received 5.59% of the vote in the first round and 4.47% in the run-off.\n\nWhen \"None of the Above\" is listed on a ballot, there is the possibility of NOTA receiving a majority or plurality of the vote, and so \"winning\" the election. In such a case, a variety of formal procedures may be invoked, including having the office remain vacant, having the office filled by appointment, re-opening nominations or holding another election (in a body operating under parliamentary procedure), or it may have no effect whatsoever, as in India and the US state of Nevada, where the next highest total wins regardless.\n\nIn the 1990 elections that led to the break-up of the Soviet Union, the Soviet version of \"none of above\" led to new elections with new candidates in 200 races of the 1,500-seat Congress of People's Deputies. More than 100 incumbents representing the Communist Party of the Soviet Union were defeated in the run-off, leading to Boris Yeltsin to later say the \"none of the above\" option \"helped convince the people they had real power even in a rigged election, and [it] played a role in building true democracy.\"\n\nDue to the Spanish voting regulations (\"\"), the blank ballot is recognized as 'none of the above' (\"voto en blanco\") but has very little chance to influence the distribution of seats within a democratic election. It is mostly considered as a statistical indicator of candidatures' disapproval. The blank ballots only increase the amount of valid votes, raising the threshold of votes (3% and 5% depending on the election) which every political party has to overcome to be fully considered. The parties over the threshold get their seats according to the D'Hondt method.\n\nSince 1999, several political parties have arisen in order to make visible the 'none of the above' option in the parliaments and force empty seats. \"Blank Seats\" ran for the Congress and Senate elections of 20 November 2011. Its programme is to leave empty the corresponding assigned seats by not taking full possession of their duties as congressperson, senator, etc. According to law, the seat remains assigned to the elected candidate until the possession act takes place, the elected candidate explicitly refuses or new elections are called. In this way, the political party and its candidates stay free from obligations and are not entitled to receive any money from the public funding scheme for politics.\n\nBy voting such option at the local elections in May 2011, the citizens of the villages of Gironella (Barcelona) and Foixà (Girona) were able to reduce the number of politicians in their councils by one and two respectively. Overall, citizenship supported Blank Seats at different municipalities, including Barcelona, with 15,582 votes (averaging 1.71% of valid votes).\n\nThe Ciudadanos En Blanco (Citizens for Blank Votes) party aims to give blank ballots the meaning of representing empty seats if the votes indicate so as for any other party, disbanding the party when such law would be approved.\n\nThe origins of the ballot option \"None of the Above\" in the United States can be traced to when the State of Nevada adopted \"None of These Candidates\" as a ballot option in 1976.\nIn 1998 in California, citizen proponents of Proposition 23, titled the \"None of the Above Act\", qualified a new State ballot initiative through circulated petitions submitted to the Secretary of State, but the measure was defeated in the March 2000 general election 64% to 36%. Were it to be passed by the voters, it was meant to require this new ballot option for all state and federal elective offices, exempting only local judicial races; in determining official election results, the \"none of the above\" voter tally would be discarded in favor of the candidate with the greatest number of votes.\n\nNo similar options were known to have been permitted, much less approved, on any other state levels, least of all the federal level, as of the middle of August 2016.\n\nThe Election Commission of India told the Supreme Court in 2009 that it wished to offer the voter a \"none of the above\" option on ballots, which the government had generally opposed. The People's Union for Civil Liberties, a non-governmental organisation, filed a public-interest litigation statement in support of this.\n\nOn 27 September 2013, the Supreme Court of India ruled that the right to register a \"none of the above\" vote in elections should apply, and ordered the Election Commission to provide such a button in the electronic voting machines, noting that it would increase participation.\n\nThe Election Commission also clarified that even though votes cast as NOTA are counted, they are considered as invalid votes so they will not change the outcome of the election process. They are not taken into account for calculating the total valid votes and will not be considered for determining the forfeiture of deposit.\n\nIn the 2014 general election, NOTA polled 1.1% of the votes, counting to over 6,000,000.\n\nThe specific symbol for NOTA, a ballot paper with a black cross across it, was introduced on 18 September 2015. The symbol is designed by National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad.\n\nThe Indonesian Law 10 of 2016 regulates local elections, and includes provisions for elections in which there is only one candidate. In such cases, the candidate contests the election against a NOTA option (commonly referred to as \"kotak kosong\"/empty box), and is declared the winner if they manage to secure a majority of the valid votes. Otherwise, the election will be postponed to the next occurrence; the government of Indonesia appoints an acting office holder until the new election, in which the losing candidate is eligible to stand again.\n\nThere were 3 uncontested seats in the 2015 local elections, nine in the 2017 local elections, and at least 13 in the 2018 local elections (including the mayoral elections for Tangerang and Makassar). In the 2018 election for mayor of Makassar, the NOTA option received over 300,000 votes, 35,000 more than the sole candidate, forcing a repeat election in 2020.\n\nUK electoral counting procedures require that all votes be counted and announced, including 'rejected' votes. 'Rejected votes' are classified into four categories, protest votes are recorded with others rejected as 'voter's intention uncertain'.\n\nNOTA UK is a voluntary organisation set up in 2010 to campaign for a formal None Of The Above (NOTA) option to be added to ballot papers for all future UK elections. It has made numerous written evidence submissions to the parliamentary Political & Constitutional Reform Committee (PCRC) making the case for NOTA 'with teeth' i.e.: formalised consequences for the election result in the event of a NOTA 'win' (as opposed to 'faux' NOTA, whereby the next placed candidate takes office anyway as happens in India and elsewhere). As a result of these representations, the PCRC explicitly recommended in its final report on 'voter engagement', published February 2015, that the next UK government should hold a public consultation before May 2016 solely on inclusion of NOTA on UK ballot papers. This in turn has led to increased support for and awareness of NOTA UK's campaign and its founder, recording artist and music producer Jamie Stanley (aka: Mailman), being asked to give a number of media interviews. No public consultation materialised as the incoming Conservative government scrapped the PCRC, effectively disregarding all of its recommendations.\n\nSince 2015, in part thanks to NOTA UK's lobbying, it has been a Green Party of England and Wales policy to get a form of NOTA (RON - Re-Open Nominations) on UK ballot papers. In the run-up to the 2017 UK general election, NOTA UK wrote to the Green party suggesting that they should reword the policy so that, instead of RON, it refers specifically to the more self-explanatory NOTA, and that they should also place the policy centre stage in their next manifesto.\n\nThe Above and Beyond Party was founded in 2015 and fielded eight candidates in the 2015 general election, none of whom were elected. Their sole stated policy was to introduce a \"none of the above\" option on all UK ballot papers. The party's logo is based on the West African Adinkra symbol \"Aya\", \"derived from a fern tree which famously grows in difficult-to-survive places\", and a symbol of resilience. Critics pointed out that their website and Facebook page at the time indicated that they had policy ideas and a political agenda beyond the single issue of NOTA and appeared to be jumping on the bandwagon of other NOTA campaigns.\n\nThe party registered with the Electoral Commission on 18 March 2015. The Electoral Commission listed the party leader, nominating officer and campaigns officer as Mark Flanagan and the treasurer was Karen Stanley. The party chairman was Michael Ross. The party was de-registered by the Electoral Commission on 3 November 2016.\n\nAbove and Beyond fielded four candidates in the 2015 general election. The candidates stood in Clwyd West, Cheadle, Sheffield Central and Leeds North West. In Sheffield Hallam the party endorsed Carlton Reeve, an independent candidate. No Above and Beyond candidate received 5% or more of the votes cast, therefore all lost their deposit.\n\nThe party raised funds partially through \"AboveBeyond\" music nights.\n\nNo Candidate Deserves My Vote! was registered as a political party with the UK Electoral Commission on 23 November 2000. The No Candidate Deserves My Vote party's single objective is to introduce a bill to Parliament to have a \"none of the above\" option added to every local and general election ballot paper of the future. They feel this will allow the UK electorate to exercise their democratic right to vote to say that none of the parties currently represents them, which will encourage their democratic responsibility to turn out to vote. If a candidate wins an election it is the intention to stay as a Member of Parliament until the change in the law is enacted. Only then will the candidate step down and the party be disbanded.\n\nIt is the intention of the party that, if a NOTA gains the majority vote, it should cause an automatic by-election, the idea being that the majority will have given a Vote of No Confidence in the candidates. If the same candidates stand under the same policies, then the electorate simply votes NOTA until the candidates change their policies to something that the electorate can vote for.\n\nIn 2010, Stephen Phillips of Stevenage ran for the UK general election on behalf of No Candidate Deserves My Vote. Phillips received 327 votes, or 0.7% of the vote, placing 7th out of 9 candidates.\n\nThe NOTA Party, in recent years also known as Notavote, was registered as a political party with the UK Electoral Commission on 2 March 2009. It was the intention of the NOTA party to field candidates in every UK parliamentary constituency. The respective NOTA candidates would not have continued in office had they received the most votes, this was merely a mechanism to simulate the recording of a formal NOTA vote. The party was registered as 'NOTA' and not 'None of the Above' as the latter is a prohibited expression regarding registration as a party name. A subsequent attempt to re-register the NOTA party in 2014 was blocked by the Electoral Commission on the grounds that the acronym 'NOTA' is as good as the phrase 'None of the Above', the logic being that it would confuse voters into thinking it is possible to cast a formal vote for 'None of the Above' when they would in fact just be voting for another party, albeit one standing on a single issue NOTA platform.\n\nNone Of The Above Zero was a candidate at the 2010 general election in Filton and Bradley Stoke. Previously known as Eric Mutch, he changed his name by deed poll to stand under that name. As candidates are listed by surname first he appeared on the ballot paper as \"Zero, None Of The Above\", in effect giving voters a none of the above option since had he been elected he would have resigned immediately. He came last with 172 votes.\n\nIn the British parliamentary elections of 2010, a former boxer changed his name by deed poll from Terry Marsh to \"None Of The Above X\", in order to run as a parliamentary candidate under that name in the constituency of South Basildon and East Thurrock. Claiming that he will not take the seat if he wins, he told BBC Essex: \"I don't take it for one moment that it would be a vote for me. [..] I'm doing what I think the Electoral Commission should be doing and what should be on every ballot paper in any electoral process.\" BBC News reported that, while the Registration of Political Parties (Prohibited Words and Expressions) (Amendment) Order 2005 stipulates that no political party can be registered in the UK under the name \"None of the Above\", there is no legislation against a person changing their name by deed poll and appearing on the ballot paper as \"None Of the Above\". In the event he polled 0.3% of the vote, the lowest of any candidate standing.\n\nNo electoral jurisdiction in Canada formally lists \"none of the above\" as a ballot option. However, in some provincial elections it is effectively possible to vote for \"none of the above\", by attending the polling station and formally \"declining to vote\". These declined votes are actually counted and become part of the electoral record.\n\nA businessman in Prince George, British Columbia ran in the 1997 federal election in the district of Prince George—Bulkley Valley under the name Zznoneoff, Thea Bove (Thea Bove Zznoneoff); ballots listing candidates alphabetically by surname, he appeared at the bottom. He came sixth of seven candidates with 0.977 percent of votes cast.\n\nA resident of Oshawa, Ontario, formerly known as Sheldon Bergson, has legally changed his name to \"Above Znoneofthe\", and has registered under that name as a candidate in several provincial and federal by-elections, most recently the Markham—Thornhill by-election of March 3, 2017. His name order was chosen so that his name would always appear at the bottom of the ballot as \"Znoneofthe, Above\", although this only works federally as provincial election ballots do not list the candidates in surname order.\n\nIn Ontario, the None of the Above Party of Ontario is a registered political party, although its stated mandate is for its candidates to serve in the legislature as independent representatives who reflect the views and interests of their constituents, rather than simply as a \"reject all of the candidates\" placeholder.\n\nThe Norwegian election regulation makes it mandatory to present voters with blank ballots in addition to all of the approved parties and election lists. In the parliamentary election of 2013, 12874 votes, which is 0.45% of the total votes given, were blank.\n\n\nMost ballots do not have a formal \"none of the above\" option, but do have procedures that work in a similar way.\n\nIn Argentina casting an envelope without a ballot in a ballot box counts as a blank vote.\n\nIn 1989 legislative election in Poland voters were able to vote against the only candidate running, often from the ruling Polish United Workers' Party by crossing out the candidate's name on the ballot. As a result, voters defeated the sitting prime minister and dozens of leading Communists because they failed to get the required majority.\n\nMany students' unions in Britain, Ireland, and others use a similar ballot option called 're-open nominations' (RON) in IRV and single transferable vote (STV) elections. These include the National Union of Students in the UK and UCD Student's Union in Ireland. The difference is that RON is a vote against all candidates in FPTP (first-past-the-post) and all subsequent candidates in an IRV or STV election.\nRON is not strictly a none of the above candidate in transferable vote elections, as when RON is eliminated during the count its votes are transferred to other candidates if those preferences exist.\n\nThe American \"Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised (RONR)\" describes various forms of illegal ballots, which are ballots which do not count for any candidate. Blanks are treated as \"scrap paper\", and are of no effect, but \"unintelligible ballots or ballots cast for an unidentifiable candidate or a fictional character are treated as illegal votes. All illegal votes cast by legal voters… are taken into account in determining the number of votes cast for purposes of computing the majority.\" RONR always requires a majority for election; thus, casting an illegal ballot or one for a hopeless candidate, whether on the ballot or as a write-in, is equivalent to voting No for all other candidates. \"The principle is that a choice has no mandate from the voting body unless approval is expressed by more than half of those entitled to vote and registering any evidence of having some opinion.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33183643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33183643", "title": "Nudd v Taylor", "text": "Nudd v Taylor\n\nNudd v Taylor, was a court case, decided in the Supreme Court of Queensland on 30 August 2000. The case concerned Australian Private International Law, specifically giving a Queensland authority to the application of the Moçambique rule.\n\n[1] The plaintiff and defendant in this matter lived in a de facto relationship for a number of years. The plaintiff has sought declarations of constructive trust in respect of a number of properties in Queensland, as well as a sum of money which is said to have been a loan to the defendant. The defendant has brought a counterclaim in which she seeks a declaration that she is entitled to a proportion of the proceeds of sale of property situated in California, as well as an accounting in relation to other monies, and damages. \n\n[2] In response the plaintiff has filed a conditional notice of intention to defend, disputing the court's jurisdiction to entertain the counterclaim. By the present application he sought a declaration under Rule 16 of the Uniform Civil Procedures Rules to the effect that there is no jurisdiction in the court to deal with the causes of action pleaded in the counterclaim. Upon the hearing of the application, however, the plaintiff's counsel, Mr Taylor, confined his submissions to the claim in respect of the proceeds of sale of the Californian properties, and couched the relief sought in terms of striking out of the relevant paragraphs, rather than seeking a declaration. \n\n[3] For the purposes of the present application, the following was common ground. The parties lived together for some seventeen years in the course of the 1980s and 1990s. A number of properties were purchased in Queensland in the name of the defendant. In 1987 they moved to the United States. From 1992 properties were acquired in California. Each of them has been sold. The plaintiff continues to reside in California, while the defendant is resident in New Zealand..\n\nHolmes J in determining whether there could be an exception to the \"Moçambique\" rule applied in regard to the counterclaim, stated:\n[15] In the present case, the defendant's claim to a share of the proceeds of sale of the properties in California depends entirely on her ability to demonstrate a beneficial interest in the properties. The outcome of her counterclaim must depend on how that question is determined. Her claim is, in my view, properly described as one which essentially concerns her right to an interest in the properties as the gravamen of her claim. Accordingly, it becomes necessary to consider whether the second exception applies. Clearly enough, the claim involves the assertion of an equitable obligation of a kind which courts have been prepared to enforce notwithstanding a connection with foreign immovables; but what of the situation when the party against whom the obligation is asserted is not within the jurisdiction? \n\nHolmes J in determining that a foreign litigant had submitted himself to this jurisdiction stated:\n[21] It is too broad a statement to say that a foreign plaintiff who proceeds in Queensland thereby submits himself to the court's jurisdiction at large. The position, is, in my respect view, correctly stated by Holland J in \"National Commercial Bank v Wimborne\":\nThat case was cited with approval by the New South Wales Court of Appeal in \"Marlborough Harbour Board v Charter Travel Co Ltd\". In the latter case, the court was prepared to go somewhat further, deciding that the foreign plaintiff's submission to the jurisdiction extended to a counterclaim which raised a new cause of action, provided that such a cross-claim was founded on or directly arose out of the same subject matter as that of the action. \n\nTo similar effect, the English Court of Appeal in \"Republic of Liberia v Gulf Oceanic Inc\" concluded that a plaintiff submitted himself to the incidents of his litigation, including liability to a counterclaim properly brought. In that case the plaintiffs had sought a declaration in relation to a contract for the purchase of oil and a resulting arbitration. The defendant's counterclaim for damages for breach of the same contract and tort for wrongful procuring of the breach was permitted to stand, notwithstanding that the foreign defendants could not, in the absence of their own litigation, have been made amenable to the jurisdiction of the court on such an action.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31666384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31666384", "title": "Outline of United States federal Indian law and policy", "text": "Outline of United States federal Indian law and policy\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to United States federal Indian law and policy:\n\nFederal Indian policy – establishes the relationship between the United States Government and the Indian Tribes within its borders. The Constitution gives the federal government primary responsibility for dealing with tribes. Law and U.S. public policy related to Native Americans have evolved continuously since the founding of the United States. David R. Wrone argues that the failure of the treaty system was because of the inability of an individualistic, democratic society to recognize group rights or the value of an organic, corporatist culture represented by the tribes.\n\nList of United States Supreme Court cases involving Indian tribes\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe federal government was in charge of relations with the Indians, and the procedure was to use the treaty making power of the president and the Senate to make formal arrangements. Over 200 treaties were agreed upon by 1840. Gatlin argues that treaties established a procedure that benefited both parties. The federal government was primarily interested in guaranteeing that Indian lands did not fall into private hands, and that it handled all negotiations with the tribes. These negotiations, says Gatlin, strengthened the tribes sense of unity and leadership. The land sales gave the Indians a steady flow of income, and guarantees of federal financial, medical, and educational aid.\n\nMany of the treaties remain in effect and are of special importance regarding federal recognition of tribal status, hunting and fishing rights, rights to protection of sacred properties, rights to water and minerals, and land claims. The federal courts have a long, continuous history of litigation on these issues. The Supreme Court endorsed the procedure, with over 300 decisions making reference to Indian treaties after 1799.\n\n\nThe following individuals have played an important role in the evolution of Federal Indian Law and Policy through activism, literature and other methods.\n\nThe following organizations have played an important role in the evolution of Federal Indian Law and Policy through activism, lobbying, government oversight and education.\n\n\nRocky Mountain Region Homge\nBlackfeet Agency\nCrow Agency\nFort Belknap Agency\nFort Peck Agency\nNorthern Cheyenne Agency\nRocky Boy's Agency\nWind River Agency\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "591972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=591972", "title": "Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property", "text": "Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property\n\nThe Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, signed in Paris, France, on 20 March 1883, was one of the first intellectual property treaties. It established a Union for the protection of industrial property. The Convention is currently still in force. The substantive provisions of the Convention fall into three main categories: national treatment, priority right and common rules.\n\nAccording to Articles 2 and 3 of this treaty, juristic and natural persons who are either national of or domiciled in a state party to the Convention shall, as regards the protection of industrial property, enjoy in all the other countries of the Union, the advantages that their respective laws grant to nationals.\n\nIn other words, when an applicant files an application for a patent or a trademark in a foreign country member of the Union, the application receives the same treatment as if it came from a national of this foreign country. Furthermore, if the intellectual property right is granted (e.g. if the applicant becomes owners of a patent or of a registered trademark), the owner benefits from the same protection and the same legal remedy against any infringement as if the owner was a national owner of this right.\n\nThe \"\"Convention priority right\", also called \"Paris Convention priority right\" or \"Union priority right\"\", was also established by Article 4 of the Paris Convention, and is regarded as one of the cornerstones of the Paris Convention. It provides that an applicant from one contracting State shall be able to use its first filing date (in one of the contracting State) as the effective filing date in another contracting State, provided that the applicant, or his successor in title, files a subsequent application within 6 months (for industrial designs and trademarks) or 12 months (for patents and utility models) from the first filing.\n\nArticle 11(1) of the Paris Convention requires that the Countries of the Union \"grant temporary protection to patentable inventions, utility models, industrial designs, and trademarks, in respect of goods exhibited at official or officially recognized international exhibitions held in the territory of any of them\".\n\nIf a patent or trademark registration is applied for during the temporary period of protection, the priority date of the application may be counted \"from the date of introduction of the goods into the exhibition\" rather than from the date of filing of the application, if the temporary protection referred to in Article 11(1) has been implemented in such a manner in national law. There are, however, other means for the Countries of the Union to implement in their national law the temporary protection provided for in Article 11 of the Paris Convention:\n\nAccording to Articles 4bis and 6 (for patents and trademarks respectively), for foreigners, the application for a patent or the registration of a trademark shall be determined by the member state in accordance with their national law and not by the decision of the country of origin or any other countries. Patent applications and trademark registrations are independent among contracting countries.\n\nAfter a diplomatic conference in Paris in 1880, the Convention was signed in 1883 by 11 countries: Belgium, Brazil, France, Guatemala, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, El Salvador, Serbia, Spain and Switzerland. Guatemala, El Salvador and Serbia denounced and reapplied the convention via accession.\n\nThe Treaty was revised at Brussels, Belgium, on 14 December 1900, at Washington, United States, on 2 June 1911, at The Hague, Netherlands, on 6 November 1925, at London, United Kingdom, on 2 June 1934, at Lisbon, Portugal, on 31 October 1958, and at Stockholm, Sweden, on 14 July 1967, and was amended on 28 September 1979.\n\nAs of February 2017, the Convention has 177 contracting member countries, which makes it one of the most widely adopted treaties worldwide. Notably, Taiwan (officially the Republic of China or ROC) and Burma are not parties to the Convention.\n\n\nThe Paris Convention is administered by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), based in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39197168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39197168", "title": "Peter Jaszi", "text": "Peter Jaszi\n\nPeter Jaszi is a widely known expert on copyright law and author, with Patricia Aufderheide, of \"Reclaiming Fair Use\" (2012), which examines the state of fair use and the importance to scholarship, art, and free expression of strengthening the doctrine.\n\nJaszi earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard University in 1968 and his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1971. \nJaszi is currently Professor of Law at American University's Washington College of Law, and Director of the Glushko-Samuelson Intellectual Property Law Clinic.\n\nJaszi was one of the founders in 1995 of the \"Digital Future Coalition\", an organization of library associations and other public interest groups engaging in copyright advocacy during the late 1990s. Jaszi has testified numerous times before Congress on copyright matters, and in 1994 served on the Librarian of Congress' Advisory Commission on Copyright Registration and Deposit. Jaszi also serves as a trustee of the Copyright Society of the U.S.A., the primary scholarly society dedicated to copyright law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22970661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22970661", "title": "Pig wrestling", "text": "Pig wrestling\n\nPig wrestling (also known as pig scramble and with the variants hog wrestling and greased pig catching) is a type of game sometimes played at agricultural shows such as state and county fairs, in which contestants, usually children or young adults, try to grab a slippery pig. In the most common version of the game, a team of four members chases a domestic pig around a fenced-off mud pit and attempts to place it in a barrel, in a race against the clock. In some events the pigs are greased with vegetable or mineral oil in order to make catching the pig more difficult.\n\nRules vary depending on the venue. Some contests use larger pigs, while others use those that are smaller. Some include a single pig, while others use more than one. The pigs are coated with shortening, vegetable oil, lard, or another lubricant. Contestants chase the pigs around a field or other determined area. Depending on the contest, contestants either try to get one or both hands on the pig, tackle and hold the pig down, or drag the pig to a set point. There may be several rounds per contest. The prize for winning is often the pig itself.\n\nChildren too young to compete in pig wrestling may compete in a greased pig chase, the object of which is to hang onto a greased pig for a certain amount of time. A more juvenile pig is often used for this competition.\n\nConcerns have been raised by animal rights organizations that using pigs in this form of entertainment is inhumane, since the pigs have no choice in the matter of whether they want to wrestle or not. The wrestling may impose undue emotional stress on the pigs, as evidenced by fearful squealing, and causes physical torsional stress on the pigs' joints. Some fairs have thus eliminated pig wrestling from their events. In Minnesota, pig wrestling is a misdemeanor.\n\nA variant is shown in \"The Man in the Iron Mask\" in which a pig dressed to look like a unicorn is released with a valuable gem hung around its neck. The first to capture the pig is allowed to keep the treasure.\n\nThe television show Family Guy parodies this concept with the Greased-up Deaf Guy; a recurring character that first appears in \"The Thin White Line\" as the quarry of a company picnic event.\n\nIn a 2014 episode of the Discovery Channel series \"MythBusters\", the Build Team investigated the difficulty of catching a greased pig, both with and without technological assistance.\n\n"}
{"id": "55394273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55394273", "title": "Sham marriage in the United Kingdom", "text": "Sham marriage in the United Kingdom\n\nSham marriage in the United Kingdom is a form of immigration fraud in the UK, primarily London, conducted systematically to gain British citizenship in exchange for short-term financial gain. The fraud is often committed by taking advantage of loopholes in EU immigration law to circumvent customary immigration procedures. The fraud is investigated mostly by the UK Border Force and previously by the UK Border Agency.\n\nThe laws applying to British citizenship are the same across all four constituent countries, and are under European Union law; however, the laws of marriage are not the same across all four constituent countries.\n\nIn 2010 a legal ruling by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), which administers the European Convention on Human Rights, assisted the incidence of sham marriage in the UK . Increases in sham marriage were reported in London boroughs such as Wandsworth . Before 2010, people would need a marriage visa from their own country of origin. \n\nSham marriage in the UK is also investigated, as a whole phenomenon, by MigrationWatch UK. The whole phenomenon is the responsibility of UK Visas and Immigration. The Immigration Act 2014 included language concerning bogus marriages, and sham marriage was also referenced by Section 24 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "12838392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12838392", "title": "Soliman's Water", "text": "Soliman's Water\n\nSoliman's Water was a brand of 16th century cosmetic lotion that was marketed as being able to remove blemishes on the skin, such as warts, spots and freckles. However, the main ingredient of this lotion was mercury, so it caused side-effects such as severe damage to the skin and loose teeth.\n"}
{"id": "32422628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32422628", "title": "Treaty of Canton", "text": "Treaty of Canton\n\nThe Treaty of Canton (, ) was the first treaty made between Sweden-Norway and the Chinese Empire. The treaty was negotiated in March 1847 by Carl Fredrik Liljevalch and Qiying, the Viceroy of Liangguang, and was one of the unequal treaties between Western powers and China that followed the First Opium War.\n\nThe treaty was actually never ratified by Chinese representatives, which cast a shadow over the legality of the outcome, but nevertheless went into effect, lasting the following 60 years.\n\nIts terms, similar to the 1844 Treaty of Wanghia between the United States and China, provided that Sweden-Norway would have the same privileges in China as other treaty powers, so-called most-favored-nation status.\nLike the United States and British Empire before it, commercial access was granted to the five treaty ports of Canton (Kwangchow), Amoy, Fuzhou, Ningbo and Shanghai. This was in stark contrast to previous Western relations with China, when only Canton was open for foreign trade.\nLike other Western countries, extraterritorial rights was given to Sweden-Norway; jurisdiction over citizens of Sweden and Norway in the treaty ports was transferred from China to Sweden-Norway.\nThe treaty furthermore allowed Sweden-Norway to send consuls to China, and to have its commerce being subjected to fixed tariffs only.\nThe provisions of the treaty remained in force until the twentieth century, with a new treaty being negotiated in 1908 by Gustav Oscar Wallenberg, three years after the dissolution of Sweden-Norway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50339304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50339304", "title": "United States as a tax haven", "text": "United States as a tax haven\n\nIn 2010, the United States implemented the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act; the law required financial firms around the world to report accounts held by US citizens to the Internal Revenue Service. \nThe US on the other hand refused the Common Reporting Standard set up by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, alongside Vanuatu and Bahrain.\n\nThis means the US receives tax and asset information for American assets and income abroad, but does not share information about what happens in the United States with other countries. In other words, it has become attractive as a tax haven.\n\nThe Tax Justice Network ranks the US third in terms of the secrecy and scale of its offshore financial industry, behind Switzerland and Hong Kong but ahead of the Cayman Islands and Luxembourg. The United States has been popular as a destination for offshore funds for Chinese investors, said Canadian financial crimes expert Bill Majcher, because investors think it will resist pressure from China. Andrew Penney from Rothschild & Co described the US as \"effectively the biggest tax haven in the world\" and Trident Trust Co., one of the world's biggest providers of offshore trusts, moved dozens of accounts out of Switzerland and Grand Cayman, and into Sioux Falls, saying: \"Cayman was slammed in December, closing things that people were withdrawing ... I was surprised at how many were coming across that were formerly Swiss bank accounts, but they want out of Switzerland.\"\n\nA 2012 study by various US universities showed that the US has the most lenient regulations for setting up a shell company anywhere in the world outside of Kenya. Tax havens such as the Cayman Islands, Jersey and the Bahamas were far less permissive, researchers found, than states such as Nevada, Delaware, Montana, South Dakota, Wyoming and New York. \"[Americans] discovered that they really don't need to go to Panama\", said James Henry of the Tax Justice Network. For example, a single address in Wilmington (1209 North Orange Street) — is listed as the headquarters for no fewer than 285,000 separate businesses due to Delaware's desirable corporate taxes and law, and it is estimated that 9 billion dollars of potential taxes is lost over the past decade, due to the Delaware loophole. Both Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump have firms registered in North Orange Street, and lawyers, trust companies and financial firms including Rothschild & Co are moving offshore accounts from locations such as Switzerland and the Cayman Islands into the US to take advantage of the country's loose regulations, calling it the \"new Switzerland\" (see Banking in Switzerland).\n\nMark Hays of Global Witness said \"the US is one of the easiest places to set up so-called anonymous shell companies\", and Stefanie Ostfeld from the same organization said that \"the US is just as big a secrecy jurisdiction as so many of these Caribbean countries and Panama\". More than 1.1 million live legal entities were incorporated in Delaware at the end of 2014. An increasing number – more than 70% – of those were LLCs. The Delaware Division of Corporations said in August 2015 that \"an LLC entices all types of people since it is easy to operate and oversee\", and Delaware is currently one of the few states without sales tax. Delaware does not tax companies which operate there, nor their royalty income. However, the LLC is more popular and often less expensive in states such as Wyoming, Nevada and Oregon. Approximately 668,000 anonymous LLCs are registered just in those three states.\n\nDespite this, the US Public Interest Research Group (PIRG) said in 2014 that the United States loses roughly $184 billion per year due to corporations such as Pfizer, Microsoft and Citigroup using offshore tax havens to avoid paying US taxes. According to PIRG:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23463858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23463858", "title": "United States v. Cleveland Indians Baseball Co.", "text": "United States v. Cleveland Indians Baseball Co.\n\nUnited States v. Cleveland Indians Baseball Company, 532 U.S. 200 (2001), is a United States Supreme Court case that deals with the federal tax code. The question before the court was “Is back-pay subject to federal taxes under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act and the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, based on the year the money should have been paid out?” Carter G. Phillips argued for the respondent and James A. Feldman argued for the petitioner, the Department of Justice.\n\nThe Cleveland Indians Baseball Company owed eight of its players back wages that were due in 1986 and fourteen players back wages that were due in 1987. The company paid the wages in 1994. The company paid taxes on the wages for the 1994 formula. The Company then requested that some of the taxes be refunded by the IRS under the argument that the taxes should be paid based on the year that they were supposed to be paid instead of the year they were actually paid. The taxes would have been significant because the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) and the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) which are used to fund Medicare, Social Security and Unemployment. The FICA and FUTA were both passed after 1987. The Cleveland Indians used Sixth Court precedent in its argument that late wages are taxed upon the year they should have paid. The District Court bound by precedent ordered the government to return the taxes. The Sixth Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court’s ruling.\n\nUnlike the Sixth Court of Appeals the court had limited precedent in which to follow. Therefore, the court simply decided to use the IRS’s interpretation of the law. Ginsburg delivering the opinion of the court stated “according due respect to the service’s reasonable, longstanding construction of the governments statues and its own regulations, we hold that back wages are subject to FICA and FUTA taxes by reference to the year the wages are in fact paid.”\n"}
