{"id": "16262543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16262543", "title": "An Investigation of Global Policy with the Yamato Race as Nucleus", "text": "An Investigation of Global Policy with the Yamato Race as Nucleus\n\nThe document, comprising six volumes totaling 3,127 pages, deals with race theory in general, and the rationale behind policies adopted by wartime Japan towards other races, while also providing a vision of Asia under Japanese control.\n\nThe document was written in an academic style, surveying Western philosophy on race from the writings of Plato and Aristotle to modern German social scientists, such as Karl Haushofer. A connection between racism, nationalism and imperialism was also claimed, with the conclusion, drawing by citing both British and German sources, that overseas expansionism was essential not only for military and economic security, but for preserving racial consciousness. Concerns pertaining to the cultural assimilation of second and third generation immigrants into foreign cultures were also mentioned.\n\nThe document was classified, had a print run of only a hundred copies, had little effect on the war, and was forgotten until 1981, when portions were discovered in a used bookstore in Japan, and subsequently publicized by being used as source material for a chapter in historian John W. Dower’s book \"War Without Mercy: Race and Power in the Pacific War\". In 1982 the Ministry of Health and Welfare re-issued the full 6 volume version along with another two volumes entitled \"The Influence of War upon Population\" as a reference work for historians.\n\nAlthough external Japanese propaganda during World War II emphasized Pan-Asianist and anti-colonial themes, domestic propaganda always took Japanese superiority over other Asians for granted. However, Japan never had an overarching racial theory for Asia until well into the 1930s—following the Japanese invasion of China, military planners decided that they should raise Japanese racial consciousness in order to forestall the potential assimilation of Japanese colonists.\n\nSince the document was written by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and not by the military or foreign policy establishment, it is unclear what type of political impact it would have had.\n\nSome statements in the document coincide with the then-publicly espoused concept of Yamato people; however, much of the work borrowed heavily from German National Socialist racial, political and economic theories, including mention of the \"Jewish question\" and inclusion of racist anti-Jewish political cartoons, although Japan had a rather negligible and largely overlooked Jewish minority. The term \"Blood and Soil\" was frequently used, though usually in quotes, as if to indicate its alien origin.\n\nThe authors rationalized of Japanese colonization of most of the Eastern Hemisphere including New Zealand and Australia, with projected populations by the 1950s, as \"securing the living space of the Yamato race\", a very clear echo of the Nazi concept of \"Lebensraum\".\n\nHowever, where the document deviated from Nazi ideology was in its use of Confucianism and the metaphor of the patriarchical family. This metaphor, with the non-Japanese Asians serving as children of the Japanese, rationalized the \"equitable inequality\" of Japanese political, economic, and cultural dominance. Just as a family has harmony and reciprocity, but with a clear-cut hierarchy, the Japanese, as a purportedly racially superior people, were destined to rule Asia \"eternally\" and become the supreme dominant leader of all humanity and ruler of the world. The term \"proper place\" was used frequently throughout the document.\n\nThe document left open whether Japan was destined eventually to become head of the global family of nations.\n\nThe document drew an explicit distinction between \"jinshu\" (人種) or \"Rasse\" (English: race), and or \"Volk\" (English: people), describing a \"minzoku\" as \"a natural and spiritual community bound by a common destiny\". However, the authors went on to assert that blood mattered. It approved of Hitler's concern about finding the \"Germanness\" of his people. It made explicit calls, sometimes approaching Nazi attitudes, for eugenic improvements, calling for the medical profession not to concentrate on the sick and weak, and for mental and physical training and selective marriages to improve the population.\n\nNorth Korea:\n"}
{"id": "49938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49938", "title": "Anarcho-syndicalism", "text": "Anarcho-syndicalism\n\nAnarcho-syndicalism (also referred to as revolutionary syndicalism) is a theory of anarchism that views revolutionary industrial unionism or syndicalism as a method for workers in capitalist society to gain control of an economy and with that control influence in broader society. Syndicalists consider their economic theories a strategy for facilitating worker self-activity and as an alternative co-operative economic system with democratic values and production centered on meeting human needs.\n\nThe basic principles of anarcho-syndicalism are solidarity, direct action (action undertaken without the intervention of third parties such as politicians, bureaucrats and arbitrators) and direct democracy, or workers' self-management. The end goal of syndicalism is to abolish the wage system, regarding it as wage slavery. Anarcho-syndicalist theory therefore generally focuses on the labour movement.\n\nAnarcho-syndicalists view the primary purpose of the state as being the defense of private property, and therefore of economic, social and political privilege, denying most of its citizens the ability to enjoy material independence and the social autonomy that springs from it. Reflecting the anarchist philosophy from which it draws its primary inspiration, anarcho-syndicalism is centred around the idea that power corrupts and that any hierarchy that cannot be ethically justified must either be dismantled or replaced by decentralized egalitarian control.\n\nHubert Lagardelle wrote that Pierre-Joseph Proudhon laid out fundamental ideas of anarcho-syndicalism and repudiated both capitalism and the state in the process since he viewed free economic groups and struggle, not pacifism, as dominant in humans.\n\nIn September 1903 and March 1904, Sam Mainwaring published in Britain two issues of a short-lived newspaper called \"The General Strike,\" a publication that made detailed criticisms of the \"officialism\" of union bureaucracy and publicized strikes in Europe making use of syndicalist tactics.\n\nIn 1910, the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT) was founded in the middle of the restoration in Barcelona in a congress of the Catalan trade union \"Solidaridad Obrera\" (Workers' Solidarity) with the objective of constituting an opposing force to the then-majority trade union, the socialist UGT and \"to speed up the economic emancipation of the working class through the revolutionary expropriation of the bourgeoisie\". The CNT started small, counting 26,571 members represented through several trade unions and other confederations. In 1911, coinciding with its first congress, the CNT initiated a general strike that provoked a Barcelona judge to declare the union illegal until 1914. That same year of 1911, the trade union officially received its name. From 1918 on, the CNT grew stronger and had an outstanding role in the events of the \"La Canadiense\" general strike, which paralyzed 70% of industry in Catalonia in 1919, the year the CNT reached a membership of 700,000. Around that time, panic spread among employers, giving rise to the practice of \"pistolerismo\" (employing thugs to intimidate active unionists), causing a spiral of violence that significantly affected the trade union. These \"pistoleros\" are credited with killing 21 union leaders in 48 hours.\n\nIn 1922, the International Workers' Association (IWA) was founded in Berlin and the CNT joined immediately, but with the rise of Miguel Primo de Rivera's dictatorship the labor union was outlawed once again the following year. However, with the workers' movement resurgent following the Russian Revolution, what was to become the modern IWA was formed, billing itself as the \"true heir\" of the original International. The successful Bolshevik-led revolution of 1918 in Russia was mirrored by a wave of syndicalist successes worldwide, including the struggle of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) in the United States alongside the creation of mass anarchist unions across Latin America and huge syndicalist-led strikes in Germany, Portugal, Spain, Italy and France, where it was noted that \"neutral (economic, but not political) syndicalism had been swept away\". The final formation of this new International, then known as the International Workingmen's Association, took place at an illegal conference in Berlin in December 1922, marking an irrevocable break between the international syndicalist movement and the Bolsheviks.\n\nThe first secretaries of the International included the famed writer and activist Rudolph Rocker, along with Augustin Souchy and Alexander Schapiro. Following the first congress, other groups affiliated from France, Austria, Denmark, Belgium, Switzerland, Bulgaria, Poland and Romania. Later, a bloc of unions in the United States, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Guatemala, Cuba, Costa Rica and El Salvador also shared the IWA's statutes. The biggest syndicalist union in the United States was the IWW and considered joining, but eventually ruled out affiliation in 1936 by citing the IWA's policies on religious and political affiliation. Although not anarcho-syndicalist, the IWW were informed by developments in the broader revolutionary syndicalist milieu at the turn of the 20th century. At its founding congress in 1905, influential members with strong anarchist or anarcho-syndicalist sympathies like Thomas J. Hagerty, William Trautmann and Lucy Parsons contributed to the union's overall revolutionary syndicalist orientation. Although the terms anarcho-syndicalism and revolutionary syndicalism are often used interchangeably, the anarcho-syndicalist label was not widely used until the early 1920s: \"The term ‘anarcho-syndicalist' only came into wide use in 1921–1922 when it was applied polemically as a pejorative term by communists to any syndicalists…who opposed increased control of syndicalism by the communist parties\". In fact, depending on the translation the original statement of aims and principles of the IWA (drafted in 1922) refers not to anarcho-syndicalism, but to revolutionary syndicalism or revolutionary unionism.\nThe \"Biennio Rosso\" (English: \"Red Biennium\") was a two-year period between 1919 and 1920 of intense social conflict in Italy following the World War I. The Biennio Rosso took place in a context of economic crisis at the end of the war, with high unemployment and political instability. It was characterized by mass strikes, worker manifestations as well as self-management experiments through land and factories occupations. In Turin and Milan, workers councils were formed and many factory occupations took place under the leadership of anarcho-syndicalists. The agitations also extended to the agricultural areas of the Padan plain and were accompanied by peasant strikes, rural unrests and guerilla conflicts between left-wing and right-wing militias. According to libcom.org, the anarcho-syndicalist trade union Unione Sindacale Italiana (USI) \"grew to 800,000 members and the influence of the Italian Anarchist Union (20,000 members plus \"Umanita Nova\", its daily paper) grew accordingly [...] Anarchists were the first to suggest occupying workplaces\".\nMany of the largest members of the IWA were broken, driven underground or wiped out in the 1920s–1930s as fascists came to power in states across Europe and workers switched away from anarchism towards the seeming success of the Bolshevik model of socialism. In Argentina, the FORA had already begun a process of decline by the time it joined the IWA, having split in 1915 into pro and anti-Bolshevik factions. From 1922, the anarchist movement there lost most of its membership, exacerbated by further splits, most notably around the Severino Di Giovanni affair. It was crushed by General Uriburu's military coup in 1930. Germany's FAUD struggled throughout the late 1920s and early 1930s as the Brownshirts took control of the streets. Its last national congress in Erfurt in March 1932 saw the union attempt to form an underground bureau to combat Adolf Hitler's fascists, a measure that was never put into practice as mass arrests decimated the conspirators' ranks. The editor of the FAUD organ \"Der Syndikalist\", Gerhard Wartenberg, was killed in Sachsenhausen concentration camp. Karl Windhoff, delegate to the IWA Madrid congress of 1931, was driven out of his mind and also died in a Nazi death camp. There were also mass trials of FAUD members held in Wuppertal and Rhenanie, many of these never survived the death camps. Italian IWA union USI, which had claimed a membership of up to 600,000 people in 1922, was warning even at that time of murders and repression from Benito Mussolini's fascists. It had been driven underground by 1924 and although it was still able to lead significant strikes by miners, metalworkers and marble workers, Mussolini's ascent to power in 1925 sealed its fate. By 1927, its leading activists had been arrested or exiled.\n\nPortugal's CGT was driven underground after an unsuccessful attempt to break the newly installed dictatorship of Gomes da Costa with a general strike in 1927 that led to nearly 100 deaths. It survived underground with 15,–20,000 members until January 1934, when it called a general revolutionary strike against plans to replace trade unions with fascist corporations, which failed. It was able to continue in a much reduced state until World War II, but was effectively finished as a fighting union. Massive government repression repeated such defeats around the world as anarcho-syndicalist unions were destroyed in Peru, Brazil, Colombia, Japan, Cuba, Bulgaria, Paraguay and Bolivia. By the end of the 1930s, legal anarcho-syndicalist trade unions existed only in Chile, Bolivia, Sweden and Uruguay. However, perhaps the greatest blow was struck in the Spanish Civil War, which saw the CNT, then claiming a membership of 1.58 million, driven underground with the defeat of the Spanish Republic by Francisco Franco. The sixth IWA congress took place in 1936, shortly after the Spanish Revolution had begun, but was unable to provide serious material support for the section. The IWA held its last pre-war congress in Paris in 1938, with months to go before the German invasion of Poland it received an application from ZZZ, a syndicalist union in the country claiming up to 130,000 workers—ZZZ members went on to form a core part of the resistance against the Nazis and participated in the Warsaw uprising. However, the International was not to meet again until after World War II had finished in 1951. During the war, only one member of the IWA was able to continue to function as a revolutionary union, the SAC in Sweden. In 1927, with the \"moderate\" positioning of some \"cenetistas\" (CNT members) the Federación Anarquista Ibérica (FAI), an association of anarchist affinity groups, was created in Valencia. The FAI would play an important role during the following years through the so-called \"trabazón\" (connection) with the CNT; that is, the presence of FAI elements in the CNT, encouraging the labor union not to move away from its anarchist principles, an influence that continues today.\n\nOn 1 June 1936, the CNT joined the UGT in declaring a strike of \"building workers, mechanics, and lift operators\". A demonstration was held, 70,000 workers strong. Members of the Falange attacked the strikers. The strikers responded by looting shops, and the police reacted by attempting to suppress the strike. By the beginning of July, the CNT was still fighting while the UGT had agreed to arbitration. In retaliation to the attacks by the Falangists, anarchists killed three bodyguards of the Falangist leader José Antonio Primo de Rivera. The government then closed the CNT's centers in Madrid and arrested David Antona and Cipriano Mera, two CNT militants.\n\nGeorge Orwell wrote of the nature of the new society that arose in the communities:\nSome of the most important communities in this respect were those of Alcañiz, Calanda, Alcorisa, Valderrobres, Fraga or Alcampel. Not only were the lands collectivized, but collective labours were also undertaken, like the retirement home in Fraga, the collectivization of some hospitals (such as in Barbastro or Binéfar) and the founding of schools such as the School of Anarchist Militants. These institutions would be destroyed by the Nationalist troops during the war.\n\nThe Committee held an extraordinary regional plenary session to protect the new rural organization, gathering all the union representatives from the supporting villages and backed by Buenaventura Durruti. Against the will of the mainly Catalan CNT National Committee, the Regional Defence Council of Aragon was created. Following Largo Caballero's assumption of the position of Prime Minister of the government, he invited the CNT to join in the coalition of groups making up the national government. The CNT proposed instead that a National Defense Council should be formed, led by Largo Caballero; and containing five members each from the CNT and UGT and four \"liberal republicans\". When this proposal was declined, the CNT decided not to join the government. However, in Catalonia the CNT joined the Central Committee of the Anti-Fascist Militias, which joined the Generalitat on 26 September. For the first time, three members of the CNT were also members of the government.\n\nIn November, Caballero once again asked the CNT to become part of the government. The leadership of the CNT requested the finance and war ministries as well as three others, but were given four posts, the ministries of health, justice, industry and commerce. Federica Montseny became Minister of Health, the first female minister in Spain. As minister of justice, Juan García Oliver abolished legal fees and destroyed all criminal files. Shortly afterwards, despite the disapproval of the anarchist ministers the capital was moved from Madrid to Valencia. On 23 December 1936, after receiving in Madrid a retinue formed by Joaquín Ascaso, Miguel Chueca and three republican and independent leaders, the government of Largo Caballero, which by then had four anarchists as ministers (García Oliver, Juan López, Federica Montseny and Joan Peiró), approved the formation of the National Defense Committee. It was a revolutionary body that represented anarchists as much as socialists and republicans. Halfway through February 1937, a congress took place in Caspe with the purpose of creating the Regional Federation of Collectives of Aragon. 456 delegates, representing more than 141,000 collective members, attended the congress. The congress was also attended by delegates of the National Committee of the CNT.\n\nAt a plenary session of the CNT in March 1937, the national committee asked for a motion of censure to suppress the Aragonese Regional Council. The Aragonese regional committee threatened to resign, which thwarted the censure effort. Although there had always been disagreements, that spring also saw a great escalation in confrontations between the CNT-FAI and the Communists. In Madrid, Melchor Rodríguez, who was then a member of the CNT and director of prisons in Madrid, published accusations that the Communist José Cazorla, who was then overseeing public order, was maintaining secret prisons to hold anarchists, socialists and other republicans; and either executing, or torturing them as \"traitors\". Soon after, on this pretext Largo Caballero dissolved the Communist-controlled Junta de Defensa. Cazorla reacted by closing the offices of \"Solidaridad Obrera\".\nThe next day, CNT's regional committee declared a general strike. The CNT controlled the majority of the city, including the heavy artillery on the hill of Montjuïc overlooking the city. CNT militias disarmed more than 200 members of the security forces at their barricades, allowing only CNT vehicles to pass through. After unsuccessful appeals from the CNT leadership to end the fighting, the government began transferring Assault Guard from the front to Barcelona, and even destroyers from Valencia. On 5 May, the Friends of Durruti issued a pamphlet calling for \"disarming of the paramilitary police… dissolution of the political parties…\" and declared \"Long live the social revolution! – Down with the counter-revolution!\", though the pamphlet was quickly denounced by the leadership of the CNT. The next day, the government agreed to a proposal by the leadership of the CNT-FAI that called for the removal of the Assault Guards and no reprisals against libertarians that had participated in the conflict in exchange for the dismantling of barricades and end of the general strike. However, neither the PSUC or the Assault Guards gave up their positions and according to historian Antony Beevor \"carried out violent reprisals against libertarians\". By 8 May, the fighting was over.\n\nThese events, the fall of Largo Caballero's government and the new prime ministership of Juan Negrín soon led to the collapse of much that the CNT had achieved immediately following the rising the previous July. At the beginning of July, the Aragonese organizations of the Popular Front publicly declared their support for the alternative council in Aragon, led by their president, Joaquín Ascaso. Four weeks later, the 11th Division under Enrique Líster entered the region. On 11 August 1937, the Republican government, now situated in Valencia, dismissed the Regional Council for the Defense of Aragon. Líster's division was prepared for an offensive on the Aragonese front, but they were also sent to subdue the collectives run by the CNT-UGT and in dismantling the collective structures created the previous twelve months. The offices of the CNT were destroyed and all the equipment belonging to its collectives was redistributed to landowners. The CNT leadership not only refused to allow the anarchist columns on the Aragon front to leave the front to defend the collectives, but they failed to condemn the government's actions against the collectives, causing much conflict between it and the rank and file membership of the union.\n\nIn April 1938, Juan Negrín was asked to form a government and included Segundo Blanco, a member of the CNT, as minister of education; and by this point, the only CNT member left in the cabinet. At this point, many in the CNT leadership were critical of participation in the government, seeing it as dominated by the Communists. Prominent CNT leaders went so far as to refer to Blanco as \"sop of the libertarian movement\" and \"just one more Negrínist\". On the other side, Blanco was responsible for installing other CNT members into the ministry of education and stopping the spread of \"Communist propaganda\" by the ministry. In March 1939, with the war nearly over, CNT leaders participated in the National Defense Council's coup overthrowing the government of the Socialist Juan Negrín. Those involved included the CNT's Eduardo Val and José Manuel González Marín serving on the council, while Cipriano Mera's 70th Division provided military support, and Melechor Rodríquez became mayor of Madrid. The Council attempted to negotiate a peace with Franco, though he granted virtually none of their demands.\n\nAfter World War II, an appeal in the \"Fraye Arbeter Shtime\" detailing the plight of German anarchists and called for Americans to support them. By February 1946, the sending of aid parcels to anarchists in Germany was a large-scale operation. In 1947, Rudolf Rocker published \"Zur Betrachtung der Lage in Deutschland\" (\"Regarding the Portrayal of the Situation in Germany\") about the impossibility of another anarchist movement in Germany. It became the first post-World War II anarchist writing to be distributed in Germany. Rocker thought young Germans were all either totally cynical or inclined to fascism and awaited a new generation to grow up before anarchism could bloom once again in the country. Nevertheless, the Federation of Libertarian Socialists (FFS) was founded in 1947 by former FAUD members. Rocker wrote for its organ, \"Die Freie Gesellschaft\", which survived until 1953. In 1949, Rocker published another well-known work. On 10 September 1958, Rocker died in the Mohegan Colony. The Syndicalist Workers' Federation was a syndicalist group in active in post-war Britain and one of the Solidarity Federation's earliest predecessors. It was formed in 1950 by members of the dissolved Anarchist Federation of Britain. Unlike the AFB, which was influenced by anarcho-syndicalist ideas but ultimately not syndicalist itself, the SWF decided to pursue a more definitely syndicalist, worker-centred strategy from the outset. The Confédération nationale du travail (CNT, or National Confederation of Labour) was founded in 1946 by Spanish anarcho-syndicalists in exile with former members of the CGT-SR. The CNT later split into the CNT-Vignoles and the CNT-AIT, which is the French section of the IWA.\n\nAt the seventh congress in Toulouse in 1951, a much smaller IWA was relaunched again without the CNT, which would not be strong enough to reclaim membership until 1958 as an exiled and underground organization. Delegates attended, though mostly representing very small groups, from Cuba, Argentina, Spain, Sweden, France, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, Denmark, Norway, Britain, Bulgaria and Portugal. A message of support was received from Uruguay, but the situation remained difficult for the International as it struggled to deal with the rise of state-sanctioned economic trade unionism in the West, heavy secret service intervention as Cold War anti-communism reached its height and the banning of all strikes and free trade unions in the Soviet Union bloc of countries. At the tenth congress in 1958, the SAC's response to these pressures led it into a clash with the rest of the international. It withdrew from the IWA following its failure to amend the body's statutes to allow it to stand in municipal elections and amid concerns over its integration with the state over distribution of unemployment benefits. For most of the next two decades, the international struggled to prebuild itself. In 1976 at the 15th congress, the IWA had only five member groups, two of which (the Spanish and Bulgarian members) were still operating in exile (though following Franco's death in 1975, the CNT was already approaching a membership of 200,000).\n\nThe Direct Action Movement was formed in 1979, when the one remaining SWF branch, along with other smaller anarchist groups, decided to form a new organisation of anarcho-syndicalists in Britain. The DAM was highly involved in the Miners' Strike as well as a series of industrial disputes later in the 1980s, including the Ardbride dispute in Ardrossan, Scotland, involving a supplier to Laura Ashley, for which the DAM received international support. From 1988 in Scotland, then England and Wales, the DAM was active in opposing the Poll Tax. In March 1994, DAM changed to its current name, the Solidarity Federation, having previously been the Direct Action Movement since 1979 and before that the Syndicalist Workers' Federation since 1950. Presently, the Solidarity Federation publishes the quarterly magazine \"Direct Action\" (presently on hiatus) and the newspaper \"Catalyst\".\n\nIn 1979, a split over representative unionism, professional unionism and state-funded schemes saw the CNT divided into two sections, the CNT as it is today and the Confederacion General del Trabajo. After Franco's death in November 1975 and the beginning of Spain's transition to democracy, the CNT was the only social movement to refuse to sign the 1977 Moncloa Pact, an agreement amongst politicians, political parties and trade unions to plan how to operate the economy during the transition. In 1979, the CNT held its first congress since 1936 as well as several mass meetings, the most remarkable one in Montjuïc. Views put forward in this congress would set the pattern for the CNT's line of action for the following decades: no participation in union elections, no acceptance of state subsidies, no acknowledgment of works councils and support of union sections.\n\nIn this first congress, held in Madrid, a minority sector in favor of union elections split from the CNT, initially calling themselves CNT Valencia Congress (referring to the alternative congress held in this city) and later Confederación General del Trabajo (CGT) after an April 1989 court decision determined that they could not use the CNT initials. In 1990, a group of CGT members left this union because they rejected the CGT's policy of accepting government subsidies, founding \"Solidaridad Obrera\". One year before, the 1978 Scala Case affected the CNT. An explosion killed three people in a Barcelona night club. The authorities alleged that striking workers \"blew themselves up\" and arrested surviving strikers, implicating them in the crime. CNT members declared that the prosecution sought to criminalize their organization.\n\nAfter its legalization, the CNT began efforts to recover the expropriations of 1939. The basis for such recovery would be established by Law 4/1986, which required the return of the seized properties and the unions' right to use or yield the real estate. Since then, the CNT has been claiming the return of these properties from the State. In 1996, the Economic and Social Council facilities in Madrid were squatted by 105 CNT militants. This body is in charge of the repatriation of the accumulated union wealth. In 2004, an agreement was reached between the CNT and the District Attorney's Office, through which all charges were dropped against the hundred prosecuted for this occupation.\n\nOn 3 September 2009, six members of the Serbian IWA section (ASI-MUR), including then-IWA General Secretary Ratibor Trivunac, were arrested on suspicion of international terrorism, a charge that was heavily disputed by the international and other anarchist groups. Shortly after their arrest, an open letter was circulated by Serbian academics criticizing the charges and the attitude of Serbian police. The six were formally indicted on 7 December and after a lengthy trial procedure Trivunac, along with other five anarchists, were freed on 17 February 2010. On 10 December 2009, the FAU local in Berlin was effectively banned as a union following a public industrial dispute at the city's Babylon cinema. At the XXIV annual congress of the IWA which was held in Brazil in December 2009, the first time the congress had been held outside Europe, motions of support were passed for the \"Belgrade Six\" and FAU while members of the Solidarity Federation temporarily took over duties as Secretariat. The International's Norwegian section subsequently took on the Secretariat role in 2010. As part of the anti-austerity movement in Europe, various IWA sections have been highly active in the 2008–2012 period, with the CNT taking a leading role in agitating for the general strikes that have occurred in Spain, the USI in Milan taking on anti-austerity campaigns in the health service and the ZSP organizing tenants against abuses in rented accommodation.\n\nThe largest organised anarchist movement today is in Spain in the form of the Confederación General del Trabajo (CGT) and the CNT. CGT membership was estimated at around 100,000 for 2003. The regions with the largest CNT membership are the Centre (Madrid and surrounding area), the North (Basque country), Andalucía, Catalonia and the Balearic Islands. The CNT opposes the model of union elections and workplace committees and is critical of labor reforms and the UGT and the CCOO, standing instead on a platform of \"reivindicación\"; that is, \"return of what is due\", or social revolution.\n\nThe following organizations are either member groups or friends of the IWA. Friends of the IWA are regarded as semi-official fellow travelers politically but have not formally joined and do not have voting rights at Congress. They are often invited to send observers to Congress.\n\nAnarcho-syndicalists believe that direct action—action carried out by workers as opposed to indirect action, such as electing a representative to a government position—would allow workers to liberate themselves.\n\nAnarcho-syndicalists believe that workers' organisations that oppose the wage system will eventually form the basis of a new society and should be self-managing. They should not have bosses or \"business agents\"; rather, the workers alone should decide on that which affects them.\n\nRudolf Rocker is one of the most influential figures in the anarcho-syndicalist movement.\n\nNoam Chomsky, who was influenced by Rocker, wrote the introduction to a modern edition of \"Anarcho-syndicalism: Theory and Practice\". A member of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), Chomsky is a self-described anarcho-syndicalist, a position that he sees as the appropriate application of classical liberal political theory to contemporary industrial society:\n\nAnarcho-syndicalism has been criticised as anachronistic by some contemporary anarchists. In 1992, Murray Bookchin spoke against its reliance on an outdated view of work:\nBookchin has said that it prioritizes the interests of the working class, instead of communal freedom for society as a whole; and that this view ultimately prevents a true revolution. He argues that in instances like the Spanish Revolution, it was in spite of the syndicalist-minded CNT leadership that the revolution occurred.\n\nDirect action, being one of the main staples of anarcho-syndicalism, would extend into the political sphere according to its supporters. To them, the labour council is the federation of all workplace branches of all industries in a geographical area \"territorial basis of organisation linkage brought all the workers from one area together and fomented working-class solidarity over and before corporate solidarity\". Rudolf Rocker argued:\nAnarcho-syndicalism therefore is not apolitical but instead sees political and economic activity as the same. Unlike the propositions of some of its critics, anarcho-syndicalism is different from reformist union activity in that it aims to obliterate capitalism as \"[anarcho-syndicalism] has a double aim: with tireless persistence, it must pursue betterment of the working class's current conditions. But, without letting themselves become obsessed with this passing concern, the workers should take care to make possible and imminent the essential act of comprehensive emancipation: the expropriation of capital\".\nWhile collectivist and communist anarchists criticise syndicalism as having the potential to exclude the voices of citizens and consumers outside of the union, anarcho-syndicalists argue that labour councils will work outside of the workplace and within the community to encourage community and consumer participation in economic and political activity (even workers and consumers outside of the union or nation) and will work to form and maintain the institutions necessary in any society such as schools, libraries, homes and so on. Bookchin argues:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13150654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13150654", "title": "Arc of Instability", "text": "Arc of Instability\n\nThe Arc of Instability is a proposed, interconnected chain of politically unstable nation states in the Asia-Pacific region. The term came into vogue in the late 1990s, proving especially popular with Australian politicians and journalists. The Arc is also sometimes to referred to as balkanisation in a modern, Asia-Pacific context.\n\nThe phrase \"Arc of Instability\" has separately also been used by the National Intelligence Council to describe \"a great arc of \ninstability stretching from Sub-Saharan Africa through North Africa, into the Middle East, the Balkans, the Caucasus, and South and Central Asia, and parts of Southeast Asia.\"\n\nThe term is used to suggest that the members of the Arc are interconnected to the point that destabilisation within one country can have major political, military and economic repercussions in neighbouring countries. For example, Australian media and politicians claimed the destabilisation of Solomon Islands was the result of a copycat or domino effect of the 2000 Fijian coup d'état. \n\nIn August 2006 Australian Defence Minister Brendan Nelson gave a speech to parliament on the topic of the Arc. Along with dropping Indonesia from the list of states in the Arc, he said:\n\nWe cannot afford to have failing states in our region. The so-called 'arc of instability', which basically goes from East Timor through to the south-west Pacific states, means that not only does Australia have a responsibility in preventing and indeed assisting with humanitarian and disaster relief, but also that we cannot allow any of these countries to become havens for transnational crime, nor indeed havens for terrorism. \n\nThere is no official list of member states in the Arc, however it has traditionally been accepted to include South-East Asian and Oceanic nations such as Papua New Guinea, The Solomon Islands, East Timor, Indonesia and Fiji.\n\nThis is a partial list of some events within an Arc which have typically been seen as contributing to the region's instability:\n\n"}
{"id": "2171572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171572", "title": "Asian–African Legal Consultative Organization", "text": "Asian–African Legal Consultative Organization\n\nThe Asian–African Legal Consultative Organization (AALCO) is an international governmental organization formed in 1956, initially to serve as an advisory board to member states on matters on international law. It was an outgrowth of the Bandung Conference, held in Indonesia during April, 1955, which led to the establishment of the Asian Legal Consultative Committee (ALCC). In April, 1958, it changed its name to the Asian-African Legal Consultative Committee (AALCC) to reflect the growth of its membership beyond the African side of the United Arab Republic. Since 2001, it has been known by its current name, the AALCO, reflecting the growth of its international status; currently an intergovernmental organization having received a standing United Nations invitation to participate as an observer in the sessions and the work of the General Assembly and maintaining a permanent office at Headquarters.\n\nIn 2014, the AALCO established an Informal Expert Group on Customary International Law. That group adopted a set of comments on the work of the International Law Commission on identification of customary international law. Those comments and the report of the AALCO Special Rapporteur Sienho Yee are published on the website of the AALCO.\n\nThe current membership includes the following members, with founding members marked with an asterisk (<nowiki>*</nowiki>):\n\n"}
{"id": "5761895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5761895", "title": "Beyond the Pale Publications", "text": "Beyond the Pale Publications\n\nBeyond the Pale was a publication company based in Northern Ireland which operated from 1988 to 2009. Their publications usually focused on controversial issues such as the troubles.\n\nThe name refers to the idiom \"beyond the pale\".\n\n"}
{"id": "844794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844794", "title": "Bihar Vikas Party", "text": "Bihar Vikas Party\n\nBihar Vikas Party (Bihar Development Party), political party in the Indian state of Bihar. BVP was formed ahead of the Lok Sabha 1999 elections by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha MP, Janardan Yadav. Yadav got some local ex-BJP leaders along to his new party. Yadav got 6 591 votes (1,04%) in the constituency Godda (today part of Jharkhand).\n\nBVP are opponents of the bifurcation of Bihar and the creation of Jharkhand as a separate state.\n\nBVP stands on the same ideological ground as BJP, for example on the Ayodhya issue.\n"}
{"id": "27810923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27810923", "title": "Buenos Aires wiretapping case", "text": "Buenos Aires wiretapping case\n\nThe spy scandal on the City of Buenos Aires refers to the scandal of illegal spying events, possibly for political purposes, made using government research structures and connected to the newly created Metropolitan Police Force.\n\nSergio Burstein is one of the leaders of the Jewish community who had led the opposition against the appointment of Fino Palacios as Chief of Police of Buenos Aires, because of their connections to the 1994 AMIA bombing.\n\nOn September 2009, Burstein was warned by an anonymous phone call, that one of its phone lines were being taped, so he made the complaint. Shortly thereafter, the Justice observed that in fact, Burstein was being spied upon by a band that would be part Fino Palacios and his successor Osvaldo Chamorro, Ciro James (a Federal Police lawyer working for the Ministry of Education of Buenos Aires), two judges of the Province of Misiones, among others.\n\nMacri said that the case, headed by the Kirchnerite judge Norberto Oyarbide, was an attempt by Néstor Kirchner to frame him. Judge Sebastián Casanello cleared Macri from charges, stating that there was not enough proof of a crime to involve Macri in the case. Other people involved included Buenos Aires' security minister Guillermo Montenegro.\n"}
{"id": "1162038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1162038", "title": "Canadian Peace Congress", "text": "Canadian Peace Congress\n\nThe Canadian Peace Congress is an anti-imperialist group founded in 1949 by Canadian minister James Gareth Endicott in response to the new dangers to peace posed because of the Cold War. It described itself as \"a place where people of different views and faiths can meet and discuss world affairs... and work together as effectively as possible to improve international relations and step by step [move] towards the goal of universal disarmament and a lasting peace\" The CPC was the Canadian affiliate of the World Peace Council and a leading player in the peace movement in Canada, particularly in the 1950s and 1960s. The CPC was active in the nuclear disarmament and anti-imperialist movements such as the movement against the Vietnam War and promoted the concept of peaceful co-existence between the Communist bloc and the Western bloc.\n\nThe CPC was made up of affiliated local peace councils from across Canada as well as associate members including the Trade Union Peace Committee, the Labor-Progressive Party (as the Communist Party of Canada was then known), the Federation of Russian Canadians and the United Jewish Peoples' Order. Its founding meeting was attended by representatives of 47 different organizations and groups, including women's, youth and church groups, trade unions, and ethnic associations. The organization also worked closely with many CCF activists.\n\nActive councils of the CPC were established in: British Columbia, Calgary, Edmonton, Fraser Valley, Guelph, Halifax, Hamilton, Kamsack, London, Niagara, Peterborough, Saskatoon, Sydney, Thunder Bay, Vernon, Victoria, and Windsor. These councils were active in campaigns against the Korean War, Vietnam War, the military coup in Chile, South African Apartheid, Zionism, US interventions into Nicaragua and Panama, NORAD and NATO as well as the arms race and nuclear build-up. \n\nThe CPC was perceived as being close to the Labor-Progressive Party and its successor the Communist Party of Canada, though Endicott, himself, was not a party member. Endicott remained the CPC's chairman until 1971 when, according to his biography, he was pressured to resign by the leadership of the Communist Party for his pro-China views during the Sino-Soviet split. Endicott was succeeded by John Hanly Morgan who led the Congress as president until 1986. A Quebec Peace Congress, Conseil québécois de la paix, also established a nationally autonomous group separate from the Canadian Peace Congress in the 1970s. By the late 1970s, members who had authored publications for the Peace Congress included scientists, artists, musicians and writers from across the country.\n\nDuring the 1980s struggles for nuclear disarmament, the Congress helped found the much broader Canadian Peace Alliance in 1985 as a more inclusive and less centralized network of peace organizations, including many newly formed groups (as opposed to the CPC which was seen as aligned with the Soviet Union). The CPA has since developed essentially into a coalition.\n\nAfter 1986 Lari Prokop led the Congress until it became inactive in the early 1990s. At its 1991 conference, the CPC decided to disaffiliate from the World Peace Council but the organization never formally dissolved. However, the Regina Peace Council continued its activity, publishing a regular newsletter and paying dues to the World Peace Council. \n\nWhile the Canada-wide council became inactive with the world crisis in the socialist and Communist movement around 1992, by the mid-2000s an effort was made to re-establish Peace Councils in Edmonton and the BC Lower Mainland, in addition to Regina. The Peace Council was then re-established in April 2006 at an Edmonton conference attended by 20 delegates from across Canada. A \"Special Renewal Conference\" was held in Winnipeg, Manitoba in 2008 which ratified the organization's constitution and politics and elected as president David McKee, a trade unionist, past co-chair of the Canadian Peace Alliance, and current leader of the Ontario Communist Party. Currently there are active Peace Councils in Surrey (Fraser Valley), BC; Edmonton, AB; Regina, SK; Winnipeg, MB; and Toronto, ON. The revived Canadian Peace Congress has affirmed its continuity with the original organization, again the Canadian affiliating with the World Peace Council. Canadian delegates have attended various international meetings, and the Peace Congress hosted a tri-lateral meeting of Peace Congress's from Mexico, USA and Cuba in October 2009. In 2017, former Communist Party of Canada leader Miguel Figueroa became acting president of the Canadian Peace Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27944267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27944267", "title": "Concordat of 1922", "text": "Concordat of 1922\n\nConcordat signed between the Latvian government and the Vatican on 30 May 1922 by Latvian foreign minister Zigfrīds Meierovics and Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Gasparri. Ratifications were exchanged at the Vatican on 3 November 1922 by Latvian deputy foreign minister Hermanis Albats and Cardinal Gasparri, and the agreement became effective on the same day. It was registered in \"League of Nations Treaty Series\" on 16 June 1923. \n\nArticle 1 granted the Catholic Church in Latvia freedom to operate, as well as the status of corporate entity. Article 2 required the Catholic Church to elevate its Diocese for Riga (reestablished in 1918) to an Archdiocese and stipulated all the Bishops should be of Latvian nationality. Article 3 stipulated that the Archdiocese of Riga shall be under Vatican jurisdiction on all church matters. Article 4 gave the Latvian government the right to veto every candidate for Bishop in its territory. Article 5 made it compulsory for every Bishop in Latvia to swear allegiance to Latvian law. Article 6 stipulated the Archdiocese of Riga shall be run under Canon Law. In article 7 the Latvian government undertook to provide the proper buildings for the Archbishop and the operation of the Archdiocese of Riga. Article 8 gave the Archbishop of Riga the right to appoint the Priests under his jurisdiction. Article 9 exempted members of the clergy from military service as well as jury service. Article 10 allowed the Catholic Church in Latvia to establish its own system of schools. Article 11 provided for the operation of a priestly seminary in the Latvian language. Article 12 limited the right to appoint non-Latvian nationals as members of the clergy. Article 13 regulated the activities of Catholic associations in Latvia. Article 14 made church property inviolable. Article 15 made churches and cemeteries inviolable. Article 16 regulated the taxation of church property. Article 17 gave the Latvian authorities the freedom to prosecute priests accused of crimes. Article 18 gave the Archdiocese of Riga the right to be informed of any criminal proceedings initiated against a priest accused of crimes. Article 19 permitted priests convicted of crimes to serve their sentence in monasteries, with the consent of the Archbishop. Article 20 stipulated the agreement shall remain in force for three years, unless extended later. Articles 21-22 provided for ratification by Vatican and Latvian authorities.\n\nThe concordat was modified by a supplementary protocol signed on 25 January 1938.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "427741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427741", "title": "Cymru Goch", "text": "Cymru Goch\n\nCymru Goch (, \"Red Wales\") was a left-wing Welsh nationalist political party, founded in 1986 and fought for what it described as a \"Free Socialist Wales\".\n\nFollowing the collapse of the Welsh Socialist Republican Movement, a number of former members, along with some who had previously been active in other parties including Plaid Cymru formed Cymru Goch. By the mid 1990s the party had over 300 members and 13 branches throughout Wales. It produced a journal, \"Y Faner Goch\" ('The Red Flag'), which had previously been published by the Welsh Socialist Republican Movement, a newsletter \"'Y Fflam\"' (The Flame) and various booklets and pamphlets explaining its aims and discussing the relationship between Marxism and Welsh nationalism.It was one of the founders of the Welsh Socialist Alliance but left in 2002. In late 2003, it subsumed itself into the new Forward Wales party formed around John Marek AM in Wrexham.\n\nIn the Welsh local government elections in 1995, 3 Cymru Goch candidates were elected as councillors and the part stood a candidate in the elections to the European Parliament in 1994 in the South Wales East constituency against Glenys Kinnock. The party stood on an abstentionist platform and would have refused to take the seat if elected, seeing the European Parliament and the UK Parliament as foreign parliaments. It decided not to contest the 1997 General Election.\n\nFollowing the election of the Blair government in 1997, Cymru Goch joined with other organisations to campaign for the devolution proposals under the banner 'Socialists Say Yes\"\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s Cymru Goch was also heavily involved in campaigns against the Community Charge (the 'Poll Tax') and Welsh Water PLC.\n"}
{"id": "1417002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1417002", "title": "David Harvey", "text": "David Harvey\n\nDavid W. Harvey (born 31 October 1935) is the Distinguished Professor of anthropology and geography at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York (CUNY). He received his PhD in geography from the University of Cambridge in 1961. Harvey has authored many books and essays that have been prominent in the development of modern geography as a discipline. He is a proponent of the idea of the right to the city.\n\nIn 2007, Harvey was listed as the 18th most-cited author of books in the humanities and social sciences in that year, as established by counting cites from academic journals in the Thomson Reuters ISI database. Some of the artists influenced by Harvey's work are Elisheva Levy in Israel and Theaster Gates in Chicago.\n\nHarvey attended Gillingham Grammar School for Boys and St John's College, Cambridge (for both his undergraduate and post-graduate studies). Harvey's early work, beginning with his PhD (on hops production in 19th century Kent), was historical in nature, emerging from a regional-historical tradition of inquiry widely used at Cambridge and in Britain at that time. Historical inquiry runs through his later works (for example on Paris). \n\nHarvey resides in New York. He has a daughter Delfina born in January, 1990.\n\nBy the mid-1960s, Harvey followed trends in the social sciences to employ quantitative methods, contributing to spatial science and positivist theory. Roots of this work were visible while he was at Cambridge: the Department of Geography also housed Richard Chorley, and Peter Haggett. His \"Explanation in Geography\" (1969) was a landmark text in the methodology and philosophy of geography, applying principles drawn from the philosophy of science in general to the field of geographical knowledge. But after its publication Harvey moved on again, to become concerned with issues of social injustice and the nature of the capitalist system itself. He has never returned to embrace the arguments made in \"Explanation\", but still he conforms to the critique of absolute space and exceptionalism in geography of the regional-historical tradition that he saw as an outcome of Kantian \"synthetic a priori\" knowledge.\n\nMoving from Bristol University to Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore in the USA, he positioned himself centrally in the newly emerging field of radical and Marxist geography. Injustice, racism, and exploitation were visible in Baltimore, and activism around these issues was tangible in early 1970s East Coast, perhaps more so than in Britain. The journal \"Antipode\" was formed at Clark University; Harvey was one of the first contributors. The Boston Association of American Geographers meetings in 1971 were a landmark, with Harvey and others disrupting the traditional approach of their peers. In 1972, in a famous essay on ghetto formation, he argued for the creation of \"revolutionary theory\", theory \"validated through revolutionary practice\".\n\n\"Social Justice and the City\" (1973) expressed Harvey's position that geography could not remain 'objective' in the face of urban poverty and associated ills. It has been cited widely (over 6600 times, by 2017, in a discipline where 50 citations are rare), and it makes a significant contribution to Marxian theory by arguing that capitalism annihilates space to ensure its own reproduction. Dialectical materialism has guided his subsequent work, notably the theoretically sophisticated \"Limits to Capital\" (1982), which furthers the radical geographical analysis of capitalism, and several books on urban processes and urban life have followed it. \"The Condition of Postmodernity\" (1989), written while a Professor at Oxford, was a best-seller (the London \"The Independent\" named it as one of the fifty most important works of non-fiction to be published since 1945, and it is cited 30,000 times by 2017). It is a materialist critique of postmodern ideas and arguments, suggesting these actually emerge from contradictions within capitalism itself. \"Justice, Nature and the Geography of Difference\" (1996) focuses on social and environmental justice (although its dialectical perspective has attracted the ire of some Greens). \"Spaces of Hope\" (2000) has an utopian theme and indulges in speculative thinking about how an alternative world might look. His study of Second Empire Paris and the events surrounding the Paris Commune in \"Paris, Capital of Modernity\", is undoubtedly his most elaborated historical-geographical work. The onset of US military action since 2001 has provoked a blistering critique – in \"The New Imperialism\" (2003) he argues that the war in Iraq allows US neo-conservatives to divert attention from the failures of capitalism 'at home'. His next work, \"A Brief History of Neoliberalism\" (2005), provides an historical examination of the theory and divergent practices of neoliberalism since the mid-1970s. This work conceptualises the neoliberalised global political economy as a system that benefits few at the expense of many, and which has resulted in the (re)creation of class distinction through what Harvey calls \"accumulation by dispossession\". His book \"The Enigma of Capital\" (2010) takes a long view of the contemporary economic crisis. Harvey explains how capitalism came to dominate the world and why it resulted in the financial crisis. He describes that the essence of capitalism is its amorality and lawlessness and to talk of a regulated, ethical capitalism is to make a fundamental error. A series of events linked to this book across London academic forums, such as the LSE, proved hugely popular and sparked a new interest in Harvey's work.\n\nHarvey returned to Johns Hopkins from Oxford in 1993, but spent increasing time elsewhere as a speaker and visitor, notably as a salaried Miliband Fellow at the London School of Economics in the late 1990s. In 1996, he delivered the Ellen Churchill Semple lecture at UK Geography. He moved to the City University of New York in 2001 as a Distinguished Professor, now residing in its Department of Anthropology. He has spent most of his academic career in Anglo-America, with brief sojourns in France and a range of foreign visiting appointments (currently as acting Advisory Professor at Tongji University in Shanghai). He has supervised many PhD students. Several of these, such as Neil Smith, Richard Walker, Erik Swyngedouw, Michael Johns, Maarten Hajer, Patrick Bond, Melissa Wright, and Greg Ruiters now hold or held important academic positions themselves. In 2013 Harvey was asked by the Republic of Ecuador to help set up the National Strategic Center for the Right to the Territory (CENEDET), which he directed with the urbanist Miguel Robles-Durán until its alleged forced closure in 2017. \n\nCritical response to Harvey's work has been sustained. In the early years, there was competition between Harvey and proponents of quantitative and non-politicized geography, notably Brian Berry. A recent critical appraisal (Castree & Gregory, 2006) explores some critiques of Harvey in detail. \n\nTwo constants in Harvey's life and work have been teaching a course on Marx's \"Capital\" and his support for student activism and community and labour movements (notably in Baltimore). His course was put into a Youtube lecture series, which gained immense popularity and resulted in two companion books for the two volumes of Marx's \"Capital\".\n\nDavid Harvey is widely recognized as a foundational scholar in urban geography. Harvey's books have been widely translated. He holds honorary doctorates from Roskilde (Denmark), Buenos Aires (Argentina), Faculty of Social Sciences at Uppsala University (Sweden), Ohio State University (USA), Lund University (Sweden) and the University of Kent (UK). Among other awards he has received the Anders Retzius Gold Medal of the Swedish Society for Anthropology and Geography, the Patron's Medal of the Royal Geographical Society and the Vautrin Lud International Prize in Geography (France). He was made a fellow of the British Academy in 1998, and was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2007. He is a member of the Interim Committee for the emerging International Organization for a Participatory Society.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49166559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49166559", "title": "Defence Ministry of Belarus", "text": "Defence Ministry of Belarus\n\nThe Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Belarus (Russian: Министерство обороны Республики Беларусь; Belarusian language: Мiнiстэрства абароны Рэспублікі Беларусь) is the government organisation that is charged with the duties of raising and maintaining the Armed Forces of Belarus. The formation of the ministry began in March 1992, after the events of 1991 in which the Soviet Union had effectively dissolved. The ministry was formed on the basis of the former Headquarters of the Soviet Army's Belorussian Military District. Seven officers have served as Minister of Defence of Belarus: Petr Chaus, Pavel Kozlovskii, Anatoly Kostenko, Leonid Maltsev (1995–96), Colonel General Alexander Chumakov, a Russian officer, (1996–2001), Yuriy Zhadobin (2009–2014), and Andrei Ravkov (2014-present).\n\nThe ministry is part of the Security Council of Belarus, interdepartmental meeting with a mandate to ensure the security of the state. The President, currently Alexander Lukashenko, appoints the Minister of Defense, who heads the ministry, as well as the heads of the armed services. These four appointees meet with the Secretary of the Security Council every two months. Security Council decisions are approved by a qualified majority of those present. Since 2014, the position of Minister of Defense has been fillef is currently filled by Lieutenant General Andrei Ravkov. \n\nThe ministry is composed of five main directorates, two main departments, one minor department, an agency and General Staff.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24387355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24387355", "title": "ESDS Government", "text": "ESDS Government\n\nESDS Government is a national data service which provides large-scale government surveys, such as the General Household Survey and the Labour Force Survey, as well as other key data resources for understanding population structure and change in the UK and its constituent countries. It is jointly funded by the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) and the Joint Information Systems Committee (JISC). \n\nIn July 2012, the ESRC announced that all of ESDS will join the UK Data Service, to be established as of October 1, 2012. \n\nSome examples of the research supported by the surveys include: \n\n\nESDS Government is led by the Cathie Marsh Centre for Census and Survey Research (CCSR) and provides user support, facilitates user meetings on specific surveys, organises training courses on topics of interest, on specific statistical software packages and on statistical analysis methods as well as provides topic-related online course materials and a range of teaching datasets. \n\nOne of the central aims of the service is to promote and facilitate increased and more effective use of government datasets in research, learning and teaching across a range of disciplines. \n\nThe acquisition, processing and delivery of the large-scale government datasets under this service is undertaken by the UK Data Archive. Data is available both via download and online exploration and visualisation via Nesstar.\n\n"}
{"id": "40363000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40363000", "title": "Farmers' Assemblies", "text": "Farmers' Assemblies\n\nThe Farmers' Assemblies () was a conservative political party in Estonia. Led by Konstantin Päts, it was the ruling party for most of the inter-war period.\n\nThe Rural League (\"Maarahva Liit\") was formed in 1917 following an article in the \"Postimees\" newspaper by members of the Southern Estonian Farmers' Central Society, which called for the rural population to form political groups to represent themselves. The new party published the \"Maaliit\" newspaper. In the Provincial Assembly elections later in the year the League received 22% of the vote and emerged as the largest party in the Assembly, holding 13 of the 62 seats.\n\nAfter the elections the party became part of the Democratic Bloc alongside the Estonian Democratic Party and the Estonian Radical Democratic Party. The Bloc received around 23% of the vote in the February 1918 Constituent Assembly elections, which was cancelled. At the time the League was considering inviting the German Army to occupy Estonia to ward off Russian Bolsheviks. Konstantin Päts then joined the League to prevent this idea being implemented, and became its leader.\n\nIn the 1919 Constituent Assembly elections, the League performed poorly, winning only eight of the 120 seats and finishing in fourth place. The Estonian Labour Party government subsequently enacted radical land reforms that redistributed land to landless farmers. This policy was opposed by the Rural League, who saw a large increase in support in the 1920 elections amongst the new landowners who had drifted to the right following their gains. The results saw the League finish second with 21 of the 100 seats in the Riigikogu, and Päts became Head of State.\n\nIn 1921 the party was reorganised, and renamed the Farmers' Assemblies, with the \"Maaliit\" newspaper renamed \"Kaja\". In 1923 a split saw some liberal members leave the party to form the Settlers' Party. The 1923 elections saw the party become the largest in the Riigikogu, winning 23 seats. Päts remained Head of State.\n\nThe 1926 elections saw the party retain its 23 seats. Although the Estonian Socialist Workers' Party become the largest faction in the Riigikogu, Farmers' Assemblies member Jaan Teemant remained Head of State, having taken office in December 1925. The party remained the second largest faction in the Riigikogu following the 1929 elections, in which it won 24 seats. However, Otto Strandman of the Labour Party was able to form a government.\n\nPrior to the 1932 elections the party merged with the Settlers' Party to form the Union of Settlers and Smallholders, with the new party winning 42 of the 100 seats.\n\nIn 1933 a large conservative faction of the Farmers' Assemblies left the Union to re-establish the party. All parties were banned on 6 March 1935, but during the Soviet occupation the party continued in exile in Sweden.\n"}
{"id": "49761119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49761119", "title": "Federal National Assembly", "text": "Federal National Assembly\n\nThe Federal National Assembly () was the parliament of the Federation of Arab Republics. \n\nThe assembly included representatives from Egypt, Libya and Syria. The assembly was responsible for examine and ratify legislation for the Federation, approve budget and ratify treaties.\n\nEach of the member republics was represented by 20 members in the Federal National Assembly, elected amongst the members of its People's Assembly. Members were elected on four year mandates. Members elected had to resign from their mandates in their republican parliaments. The Federal National Assembly met twice a year, opening its inaugural session on March 12, 1972 and holding its last session in October 1975. The sessions lasted for three months.\n\nThe People's Assembly of Egypt elected the 20 members Egyptian members of the Federal National Assembly. One of the elected members was Dr. Abdul Hamid Hassan, former student union leader and member of the Arab Socialist Union Central Committee.\n\nThe Libyan members were elected by popular vote on March 5, 1972, some 500,000 cast their votes. The vote had been scheduled for February 27, 1972 but was postponed as new requirements for candidates were introduced. As per the requirements from the law from February 27 candidates were required to be Libyan citizens, hold a secondary education certificate, be 30 years old, hold membership in the Arab Socialist Union and deposit 50 Libyan dinars (most of these requirements were added ad hoc after the postponing of the vote in February 1972). Voting was compulsory. \n\nThe election result was declared on March 7, 1972 by Minister of Interior Major Abd ul-Mumim al-Huni. The 20 members elected from Libya were Bashir Muhammad al-Rabiti, Al-Taher Salam Kridan, Ali Mustapha al-Misrati, Milad Mohammad Ali al-Oud, Milad Ali Muhammad Abu Amjat, Hassan Abd ul-Hafiz al-Jihani, Khalifa abd ul-Matlub Yunus al-Warfali, Saleh Massoud Bouisir, Dr. Kheiri el-Saghir Abu Laqma, Abdullah al-Hush Abdullah, Ammar Ahmad al-Sa'adi, Mohammad Issa Yehiya al-Barouni, Ali Mustapa Mazak Kadad, Ibrahim Obayd Sa'id, Abbas Mohammad Abd un-Nabi al-Qadiri, Abdus Salam Mohammad ben Nur, Mohammad al-Hazmi Saleh al-Trahouni, Maatuq Mohammad Maatuq al-Zubeidi, Maftah Mohammad bin Issa and Ali Senoussi Abd us-Said al-Mansouri.\n\nDr. Kheiri el-Saghir Abu Laqma of Libya was elected as the speaker of the Federal National Assembly, In his inaugural speech in March 1972 Abu Laqma hailed the Federation of Arab Republics as a step towards Pan-Arab unity. Abu Laqma was later replaced by fellow Libyan Bashir al-Rabiti as speaker of the assembly.\n\nThe last session was held in October 1975. The March 1976 session was postponed indefinitely.\n"}
{"id": "762829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762829", "title": "Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act", "text": "Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act\n\nThe Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (\"FISA\" , ) is a United States federal law which establishes procedures for the physical and electronic surveillance and collection of \"foreign intelligence information\" between \"foreign powers\" and \"agents of foreign powers\" suspected of espionage or terrorism. The Act created the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) to oversee requests for surveillance warrants by federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies. It has been repeatedly amended since the September 11 attacks.\n\nThe Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) was introduced on May 18, 1977, by Senator Ted Kennedy and was signed into law by President Carter on 25 October 1978. The bill was cosponsored by nine Senators: Birch Bayh, James O. Eastland, Jake Garn, Walter Huddleston, Daniel Inouye, Charles Mathias, John L. McClellan, Gaylord Nelson, and Strom Thurmond.\n\nThe FISA resulted from extensive investigations by Senate Committees into the legality of domestic intelligence activities. These investigations were led separately by Sam Ervin and Frank Church in 1978 as a response to President Richard Nixon’s usage of federal resources, including law enforcement agencies, to spy on political and activist groups. The law itself was crafted in large part in closed door meetings between legislators and members of the Justice Department.\nThe act was created to provide judicial and congressional oversight of the government's covert surveillance activities of foreign entities and individuals in the United States, while maintaining the secrecy needed to protect national security.\n\nThe Act came into public prominence in December 2005 following publication by \"The New York Times\" of an article that described a program of warrantless domestic wiretapping ordered by the Bush administration and carried out by the National Security Agency since 2002; a subsequent Bloomberg article suggested that this may have already begun by June 2000.\n\nThe subchapters of FISA provide for:\n\nGenerally, the statute permits electronic surveillance in two different scenarios.\n\nThe President may authorize, through the Attorney General, electronic surveillance without a court order for the period of one year, provided that it is only to acquire foreign intelligence information, that it is solely directed at communications or property controlled exclusively by foreign powers, that there is no substantial likelihood that it will acquire the contents of any communication to which a United States person is a party, and that it be conducted only in accordance with defined minimization procedures.\n\nThe code defines \"foreign intelligence information\" to mean information necessary to protect the United States against actual or potential grave attack, sabotage or international terrorism.\n\n\"Foreign powers\" means a foreign government, any faction of a foreign nation not substantially composed of U.S. persons, and any entity directed or controlled by a foreign government. The definition also includes groups engaged in international terrorism and foreign political organizations. The sections of FISA authorizing electronic surveillance and physical searches without a court order specifically exclude their application to groups engaged in international terrorism.\n\nA \"U.S. person\" includes citizens, lawfully admitted permanent resident aliens, and corporations incorporated in the United States.\n\n\"Minimization procedures\" limit the collection of information concerning United States persons by protecting their identities and requiring a court order to retain the communications for longer than 72 hours. The communications can be retained without court order if there is evidence of a crime. Identification of a US person, known as \"unmasking\", may also be authorized if an agency believes it is necessary in order to understand the intelligence or believes that the person was committing a crime.\n\nThe Attorney General is required to make a certification of these conditions under seal to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, and report on their compliance to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.\n\nSince (a)(1)(A) of this Act specifically limits warrantless surveillance to foreign powers as defined by 50 U.S.C. §1801(a) (1),(2), (3) and omits the definitions contained in 50 U.S.C. §1801(a) (4),(5),(6) the act does not authorize the use of warrantless surveillance on: groups engaged in international terrorism or activities in preparation thereof; foreign-based political organizations, not substantially composed of United States persons; or entities that are directed and controlled by a foreign government or governments. Under FISA, anyone who engages in electronic surveillance except as authorized by statute is subject to both criminal penalties and civil liabilities.\n\nUnder 50 U.S.C. § 1811, the President may also authorize warrantless surveillance at the beginning of a war. Specifically, he may authorize such surveillance \"for a period not to exceed fifteen calendar days following a declaration of war by the Congress\".\n\nAlternatively, the government may seek a court order permitting the surveillance using the FIS court. Approval of a FISA application requires the court find probable cause that the target of the surveillance be a \"foreign power\" or an \"agent of a foreign power\", and that the places at which surveillance is requested is used or will be used by that foreign power or its agent. In addition, the court must find that the proposed surveillance meet certain \"minimization requirements\" for information pertaining to U.S. persons.\n\nDepending on the type of surveillance, approved orders or extensions of orders may be active for 90 days, 120 days, or a year. FISA warrants require renewal depending on the type of surveillance and type of warrant either every 90 days (if targeting a U.S. person) or 120 days (if targeting a non-U.S. person).\n\nThe Act created the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) and enabled it to oversee requests for surveillance warrants by federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies (primarily the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the National Security Agency) against suspected foreign intelligence agents inside the U.S. The court is located within the E. Barrett Prettyman United States Courthouse in Washington, D.C. The court is staffed by eleven judges appointed by the Chief Justice of the United States to serve seven-year terms.\n\nProceedings before the FISA court are \"ex parte\" and non-adversarial. The court hears evidence presented solely by the Department of Justice. There is no provision for a release of information regarding such hearings, or for the record of information actually collected. The USA Freedom Act (Section 402), however, requires the government to declassify and publicly release \"to the greatest extent practicable\" each order, decision and opinion of the court if it contains a \"significant construction or interpretation of law.\"\n\nDenials of FISA applications by the FISC may be appealed to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review. The Court of Review is a three judge panel. Since its creation, the court has come into session twice: in 2002 and 2008.\n\nFISC meets in secret, and approves or denies requests for search warrants. Only the number of warrants applied for, issued and denied, is reported. In 1980 (the first full year after its inception), it approved 322 warrants. This number has steadily grown to 2,224 warrants in 2006. In the period 1979–2006, a total of 22,990 applications for warrants were made to the Court of which 22,985 were approved (sometimes with modifications; or with the splitting up, or combining together, of warrants for legal purposes), and only 5 were definitively rejected.\n\nIn addition to electronic surveillance, FISA permits the \"physical search\" of the \"premises, information, material, or property used exclusively by\" a foreign power. The requirements and procedures are nearly identical to those for electronic surveillance.\n\nBoth the subchapters covering physical searches and electronic surveillance provide for criminal and civil liability for violations of FISA.\n\nCriminal sanctions follows violations of electronic surveillance by \"intentionally\" engaging in electronic surveillance under the color of law or through disclosing information known to have been obtained through unauthorized surveillance. The penalties for either act are fines up to US$10,000, up to five years in jail, or both.\n\nIn addition, the statute creates a cause of action for private individuals whose communications were unlawfully monitored. The statute permits actual damages of not less than $1,000 or $100 per day. In addition, that statute authorizes punitive damages and an award of attorney's fees. Similar liability is found under the subchapter pertaining to physical searches. In both cases, the statute creates an affirmative defense for law enforcement personnel acting within their official duties and pursuant to a valid court order. Presumably, such a defense is not available to those operating exclusively under presidential authorization.\n\nIn 2004, FISA was amended to include a \"lone wolf\" provision. . A \"lone wolf\" is a non-U.S. person who engages in or prepares for international terrorism. The provision amended the definition of \"foreign power\" to permit the FISA courts to issue surveillance and physical search orders without having to find a connection between the \"lone wolf\" and a foreign government or terrorist group. However, \"if the court authorizes such a surveillance or physical search using this new definition of 'agent of a foreign power', the FISC judge has to find, in pertinent part, that, based upon the information provided by the applicant for the order, the target had engaged in or was engaging in international terrorism or activities in preparation therefor\".\n\nIn 1967, the Supreme Court of the United States held that the requirements of the Fourth Amendment applied equally to electronic surveillance and to physical searches. \"Katz v. United States\", 389 U.S. 347 (1967). The Court did not address whether such requirements apply to issues of national security. Shortly after, in 1972, the Court took up the issue again in \"United States v. United States District Court, Plamondon\", where the court held that court approval was required in order for the domestic surveillance to satisfy the Fourth Amendment. 407 U.S. 297 (1972). Justice Powell wrote that the decision did not address this issue that \"may be involved with respect to activities of foreign powers or their agents\".\n\nIn the time immediately preceding FISA, a number of courts squarely addressed the issue of \"warrantless wiretaps\". In both \"United States v. Brown\", 484 F.2d 418 (5th Cir. 1973), and \"United States v. Butenko\", 494 F.2d 593 (3rd Cir. 1974), the courts upheld warrantless wiretaps. In \"Brown\", a U.S. citizen's conversation was captured by a wiretap authorized by the Attorney General for foreign intelligence purposes. In \"Butenko\", the court held a wiretap valid if the primary purpose was for gathering foreign intelligence information.\n\nA plurality opinion in \"Zweibon v. Mitchell\", 516 F.2d 594 (D.C. Cir. 1975), held that a warrant was required for the domestic surveillance of a domestic organization. In this case, the court found that the domestic organization was not a \"foreign power or their agent\", and \"absent exigent circumstances, all warrantless electronic surveillance is unreasonable and therefore unconstitutional.\"\n\nThere have been very few cases involving the constitutionality of FISA. Two lower court decisions found FISA constitutional. In \"United States v. Duggan\", the defendants were members of the Irish Republican Army. 743 F.2d 59 (2nd Cir., 1984). They were convicted for various violations regarding the shipment of explosives and firearms. The court held that there were compelling considerations of national security in the distinction between the treatment of U.S. citizens and non-resident aliens.\n\nIn the \"United States v. Nicholson\", the defendant moved to suppress all evidence gathered under a FISA order. 955 F.Supp. 588 (Va. 1997). The court affirmed the denial of the motion. There the court flatly rejected claims that FISA violated Due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, Equal protection, Separation of powers, nor the Right to counsel provided by the Sixth Amendment.\n\nHowever, in a third case, the special review court for FISA, the equivalent of a Circuit Court of Appeals, opined differently should FISA limit the President's inherent authority for warrantless searches in the foreign intelligence area. In \"In re Sealed Case\", 310 F.3d 717, 742 (Foreign Intel. Surv. Ct. of Rev. 2002) the special court stated \"[A]ll the other courts to have decided the issue [have] held that the President did have inherent authority to conduct warrantless searches to obtain foreign intelligence information . ... We take for granted that the President does have that authority and, assuming that is so, FISA could not encroach on the President's constitutional power.\"\n\nK. A. Taipale of the World Policy Institute, James Jay Carafano of the Heritage Foundation, and Philip Bobbitt of Columbia Law School, among others, have argued that FISA may need to be amended to include, among other things, procedures for programmatic approvals, as it may no longer be adequate to address certain foreign intelligence needs and technology developments, including: the transition from circuit-based communications to packet-based communications; the globalization of telecommunication infrastructure; and the development of automated monitoring techniques, including data mining and traffic analysis.\n\nJohn R. Schmidt, associate attorney general (1994–1997) in the Justice Department under President Bill Clinton, expressed a need for programmatic approval of technology-enabled surveillance programs. He recalled early arguments made by then-Attorney General Edward Levi to the Church Committee that foreign intelligence surveillance legislation should include provisions for programmatically authorizing surveillance programs because of the particular needs of foreign intelligence where \"virtually continuous surveillance, which by its nature does not have specifically predetermined targets\" may be required. In these situations, \"the efficiency of a warrant requirement would be minimal.\"\n\nIn a 2006 opinion, Judge Richard Posner wrote that FISA \"retains value as a framework for monitoring the communications of known terrorists, but it is hopeless as a framework for detecting terrorists. [FISA] requires that surveillance be conducted pursuant to warrants based on probable cause to believe that the target of surveillance is a terrorist, when the desperate need is to find out who is a terrorist.\"\n\nThe Act was amended in 2001 by the USA PATRIOT Act, primarily to include terrorism on behalf of groups that are not specifically backed by a foreign government.\n\nAn overhaul of the bill, the Protect America Act of 2007 was signed into law on August 5, 2007. It expired on February 17, 2008.\n\nThe FISA Amendments Act of 2008 passed by the United States Congress on July 9, 2008. The amendments added a new Title VII to the Act, which was stated to expire at the end of 2012, but Congress extended the provisions to December 31, 2017.\n\nAfter months of congressional hearings and some public controversy, following a short-term extension of three weeks, Congress passed a six-year extension of the FISA Amendments Act of 2008.\n\nOn March 16, 2006, Senators Mike DeWine (R-OH), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) introduced the Terrorist Surveillance Act of 2006 (S.2455), under which the President would be given certain additional limited statutory authority to conduct electronic surveillance of suspected terrorists in the United States subject to enhanced Congressional oversight. Also on March 16, 2006, Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) introduced the National Security Surveillance Act of 2006 (), which would amend FISA to grant retroactive amnesty for warrantless surveillance conducted under presidential authority and provide FISA court (FISC) jurisdiction to review, authorize, and oversight \"electronic surveillance programs\". On May 24, 2006, Senator Specter and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) introduced the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Improvement and Enhancement Act of 2006 () asserting FISA as the exclusive means to conduct foreign intelligence surveillance.\n\nAll three competing bills were the subject of Judiciary Committee hearings throughout the summer. On September 13, 2006, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to approve all three mutually exclusive bills, thus, leaving it to the full Senate to resolve.\n\nOn July 18, 2006, U.S. Representative Heather Wilson (R-NM) introduced the Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act (). Wilson's bill would give the President the authority to authorize electronic surveillance of international phone calls and e-mail linked specifically to identified terrorist groups immediately following or in anticipation of an armed or terrorist attack on the United States. Surveillance beyond the initial authorized period would require a FISA warrant or a presidential certification to Congress. On September 28, 2006, the House of Representatives passed Wilson's bill and it was referred to the Senate.\n\nOn July 28, 2007, President Bush called on Congress to pass legislation to reform the FISA in order to ease restrictions on surveillance of terrorist suspects where one party (or both parties) to the communication are located overseas. He asked that Congress pass the legislation before its August 2007 recess. On August 3, 2007, the Senate passed a Republican-sponsored version of FISA (S. 1927) in a vote of 60 to 28. The House followed by passing the bill, 227–183. The Protect America Act of 2007 (, ) was then signed into law by George W. Bush on 2007-08-05.\n\nUnder the Protect America Act of 2007, communications that begin or end in a foreign country may be wiretapped by the U.S. government without supervision by the FISA Court. The Act removes from the definition of \"electronic surveillance\" in FISA any surveillance directed at a person reasonably believed to be located outside the United States. As such, surveillance of these communications no longer requires a government application to, and order issuing from, the FISA Court.\n\nThe Act provides procedures for the government to \"certify\" the legality of an acquisition program, for the government to issue directives to providers to provide data or assistance under a particular program, and for the government and recipient of a directive to seek from the FISA Court, respectively, an order to compel provider compliance or relief from an unlawful directive. Providers receive costs and full immunity from civil suits for compliance with any directives issued pursuant to the Act.\n\nA summary of key provisions follows. The Act empowers the Attorney General or Director of National Intelligence (\"DNI\") to authorize, for up to one year, the acquisition of communications concerning \"persons reasonably believed to be outside the United States\" if the Attorney General and DNI determine that each of five criteria has been met:\n\nThis determination by the Attorney General and DNI must be certified in writing, under oath, and supported by appropriate affidavit(s). If immediate action by the government is required and time does not permit the preparation of a certification, the Attorney General or DNI can direct the acquisition orally, with a certification to follow within 72 hours. The certification is then filed with the FISA Court.\n\nOnce the certification is filed with the FISA Court, the Attorney General or DNI can direct a provider to undertake or assist in the undertaking of the acquisition.\n\nIf a provider fails to comply with a directive issued by the Attorney General or DNI, the Attorney General may seek an order from the FISA Court compelling compliance with the directive. Failure to obey an order of the FISA Court may be punished as a contempt of court.\n\nLikewise, a person receiving a directive may challenge the legality of that directive by filing a petition with the FISA Court. An initial review must be conducted within 48 hours of the filing to determine whether the petition is frivolous, and a final determination concerning any non-frivolous petitions must be made – in writing – within 72 hours of receipt of the petition.\n\nDeterminations of the FISA Court may be appealed to the Foreign Intelligence Court of Appeals, and a petition for a writ of certiorari of a decision from the FICA can be made to the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nAll petitions must be filed under seal.\n\nThe Act allows providers to be compensated, at the prevailing rate, for providing assistance as directed by the Attorney General or DNI.\n\nThe Act provides explicit immunity from civil suit in any federal or state court for providing any information, facilities, or assistance in accordance with a directive under the Act.\n\nWithin 120 days, the Attorney General must submit to the FISA Court for its approval the procedures by which the government will determine that acquisitions authorized by the Act conform with the Act and do not involve purely domestic communications. The FISA Court then will determine whether the procedures comply with the Act. The FISA Court thereafter will enter an order either approving the procedures or directing the government to submit new procedures within 30 days or cease any acquisitions under the government procedures. The government may appeal a ruling of the FISA Court to the FICA and ultimately the Supreme Court.\n\nOn a semiannual basis, the Attorney General shall inform the Intelligence and Judiciary Committees of the House and Senate of incidents of noncompliance with a directive issued by the Attorney General or the DNI, incidents of noncompliance with FISA Court-approved procedures by the Intelligence Community, and the number of certifications and directives issued during the reporting period.\n\nThe amendments to FISA made by the Act expire 180 days after enactment, except that any order in effect on the date of enactment remains in effect until the date of expiration of such order and such orders can be reauthorized by the FISA Court. The Act expired on February 17, 2008.\n\nLegal experts experienced in national security issues are divided on how broadly the new law could be interpreted or applied. Some believe that due to subtle changes in the definitions of terms such as \"electronic surveillance\", it could empower the government to conduct warrantless physical searches and even seizures of communications and computer devices and their data which belong to U.S. citizens while they are in the United States, if the government contended that those searches and potential seizures were related to its surveillance of parties outside the United States. Intelligence officials, while declining to comment directly on such possibilities, respond that such interpretations are overly broad readings of the act, and unlikely to actually occur.\n\nIn a September 10, 2007 address at a symposium on modernizing FISA held at Georgetown University Law Center's National Security Center, Kenneth L. Wainstein, Assistant Attorney General for National Security, argued against the current six-month sunset provision in the Protect America Act of 2007, saying that the broadened surveillance powers the act provides for should be made permanent. Wainstein proposed that internal audits by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the National Security Division of the Justice Department, with reporting to select groups of Congressmen, would ensure that the expanded capability would not be abused.\n\nAlso on September 10, DNI Mike McConnell testified before the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs that the Protect America Act had helped foil a major terror plot in Germany. U.S. intelligence-community officials questioned the accuracy of McConnell's testimony and urged his office to correct it, which he did in a statement issued September 12, 2007. Critics cited the incident as an example of the Bush administration's exaggerated claims and contradictory statements about surveillance activities. Counterterrorism officials familiar with the background of McConnell's testimony said they did not believe he made inaccurate statements intentionally as part of any strategy by the administration to persuade Congress to make the new eavesdropping law permanent. Those officials said they believed McConnell gave the wrong answer because he was overwhelmed with information and merely mixed up his facts.\n\nSpeaking at National Security Agency headquarters in Fort Meade, Maryland on September 19, 2007, President George W. Bush urged Congress to make the provisions of the Protect America Act permanent. Bush also called for retroactive immunity for telecommunications companies who had cooperated with government surveillance efforts, saying, \"It's particularly important for Congress to provide meaningful liability protection to those companies now facing multibillion-dollar lawsuits only because they are believed to have assisted in efforts to defend our nation, following the 9/11 attacks\".\n\nOn October 4, 2007, the bipartisan Liberty and Security Committee of the Constitution Project, co-chaired by David Keene and David D. Cole, issued its \"Statement on the Protect America Act\". The Statement urged Congress not to reauthorize the PAA, saying the language of the bill \"runs contrary to the tripartite balance of power the Framers envisioned for our constitutional democracy, and poses a serious threat to the very notion of government of the people, by the people and for the people\". Some in the legal community have questioned the constitutionality of any legislation that would retroactively immunize telecommunications firms alleged to have cooperated with the government from civil liability for having potentially violated their customers' privacy rights.\n\nIn an article appearing in the January/February 2008 issue of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers journal of Security and Privacy, noted technology experts from academia and the computing industry found significant flaws in the technical implementation of the Protect America Act which they said created serious security risks, including the danger that such a surveillance system could be exploited by unauthorized users, criminally misused by trusted insiders, or abused by the government.\n\nOn October 7, 2007, \"The Washington Post\" reported that House Democrats planned to introduce alternative legislation which would provide for one-year \"umbrella\" warrants, and would require the Justice Department inspector general to audit the use of those warrants and issue quarterly reports to a special FISA court and to Congress. The proposed bill would not include immunity for telecommunications firms facing lawsuits in connection with the administration's NSA warrantless surveillance program. House Democrats said that as long as the administration withholds requested documents explaining the basis for the program that they cannot consider immunity for firms alleged to have facilitated it. On October 10, 2007 comments on the White House South Lawn, President Bush said he would not sign any bill that did not provide retroactive immunity for telecommunications corporations.\n\nOn October 18, 2007, the House Democratic leadership put off a vote on the proposed legislation by the full chamber to avoid consideration of a Republican measure that made specific references to Osama bin Laden. At the same time, the Senate Intelligence Committee reportedly reached a compromise with the White House on a different proposal that would give telephone carriers legal immunity for any role they played in the National Security Agency's domestic eavesdropping program approved by President Bush after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.\n\nOn November 15, 2007, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted 10–9 along party lines to send an alternative measure to the full Senate other than the one the intelligence committee had crafted with the White House. The proposal would leave to the full Senate whether or not to provide retroactive immunity to telecommunications firms that cooperated with the NSA. Judiciary Committee chairman Patrick Leahy said that granting such immunity would give the Bush administration a \"blank check\" to do what it wants without regard to the law. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, the top Republican on the committee, said that court cases may be the only way Congress can learn exactly how far outside the law the administration has gone in eavesdropping in the United States. When the full Senate takes up the bill, Specter is expected to offer a compromise that would shield the companies from financial ruin but allow lawsuits to go forward by having the federal government stand in for the companies at trial.\n\nOn the same day, the House of Representatives voted 227–189 to approve a Democratic bill that would expand court oversight of government surveillance inside the United States while denying immunity to telecom companies. House Judiciary Committee chairman John Conyers left the door open to an immunity deal in the future, but said that the White House must first give Congress access to classified documents specifying what the companies did that requires legal immunity.\nIn February 2008, the Senate passed the version of the new FISA that would allow telecom companies immunity. On March 13, 2008, the U.S. House of Representatives held a secret session to discuss related information. On March 14, the House voted 213–197 to approve a bill that would \"not\" grant telecom immunity – far short of the 2/3 majority required to override a Presidential veto. The Senate and House bills are compared and contrasted in a June 12, 2008 report from the Congressional Research Service.\n\nOn March 13, 2008, the House of Representatives held a secret, closed door meeting to debate changes to the FISA bill.\n\nThe 2008 amendment of FISA gave telecoms immunity, increased the time allotted for warrantless surveillance, and adds provisions for emergency eavesdropping. On June 20, 2008, the House of Representatives passed the amendment with a vote of 293 to 129. It passed in the Senate 69 to 28 on July 9, 2008 after a failed attempt to strike Title II from the bill by Senator Dodd. On July 10, 2008, President Bush signed it into law.\n\nOn June 2, 2015, many provisions of the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act were changed with the passage of the USA Freedom Act. The 2015 law overhauled the powerful United States National Security Agency and required the US government to undergo standard court procedures in order to gather data regarding suspicious activities. However, the law did not completely repeal the controversial Patriot Act and allowed some provisions to expire in later time.\n\nThe government initiated efforts in late 2016 and throughout 2017 to persuade Congress to extend the surveillance authority in Title VII of the Act, which (pursuant to the 2008 and 2012 amendments noted above) was slated to expire on December 31, 2017. Tom Cotton, a Republican Senator from Arkansas, introduced a bill to permanently extend the provisions of Title VII with no changes, but the bill did not advance, as many in Congress were seeking reforms to address privacy concerns. The United States House Committee on the Judiciary introduced an extension bill with significant proposed reforms, as did the United States House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, but ultimately a version of the extension with less significant reforms was advanced by United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and in effect that version, through a complex series of amendments was ultimately enacted into law . The Senate agreed to a House amendment on January 18, 2018 and the President signed the legislation, the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-118), into law on January 19, 2018.\n\nThe law extends Title VII of the Act for six years, to December 31, 2023, and most notably included new restrictions on querying surveillance databases, prohibited the resumption of certain types of collection about a target that were not directly addressed to or from that target, unless Congress approved such collection within 30 days of having been notified of the resumption, and provided for additional reporting by the Executive Branch of surveillance activities. Many privacy and civil liberties advocates argued that the reforms enacted by the extension bill were inadequate, but their arguments were rebutted by the government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28286057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28286057", "title": "Frank Habineza", "text": "Frank Habineza\n\nFrank Habineza is the founder and chairman of the Democratic Green Party of Rwanda, a political party formed in August 2009 in Rwanda.\nIn its first year, the party made six unsuccessful attempts to register.\nAs of mid-August 2010 the party was still not registered, and therefore was unable to submit a candidate for the August 2010 Presidential elections.\n\nHabineza was born in Mityana, Uganda in a Hutu family on 22 February 1977.\nHe attended the National University of Rwanda from 1999 to 2004, graduating in Political and Administrative Sciences with a major in Public Administration. While at University he started a student association campaigning for environment protection.\nHe later became a personal assistant to the Minister of Lands, Environment, Water, Forestry and Mines, Drocella Mugorewera. He was the official correspondent of Rwanda Newsline and UMUSESO while he was a student in Butare. He also worked for the former \"Rwanda Herald Newspaper\", whose publisher Asuman Bikika was declared 'persona non grata' in mid-2002.\n\nHabineza was for three years (2006–2009), National Coordinator for the Nile Basin Discourse Forum in Rwanda (NBDF), a civil society platform that had over 50 NGOs involved in the conservation of river Nile. He resigned in May 2009. He was also President of the Rwanda NGOs Forum on Water, Sanitation and Environment-RWASEF and founder Chairman for the Rwandan Environment Conservation Organisation (RECOR). He resigned from all the NGOs when he joined active opposition politics.\nIn June 2010 these two organizations distanced themselves from him after a report alleged that donor funds had been diverted for political purposes.\nThe report, issued by the Ministry of Local Government, named Habineza as one of the people behind \"briefcase\" NGO's that fleece donors, and named five NGOs as vehicles used by him to obtain funding for political activities.\n\nHabineza founded the Democratic Green Party (DGP) in August 2009 as an alternative to the dominant Rwanda Patriotic Front.\nIn April 2010 three leading members of the DGP resigned due to disagreements over Habineza's activities. They said that the party was being manipulated by foreigners, and denied statements made by Habineza that Rwanda was helping the UK and the US plunder timber from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and that Rwanda had deployed troops in the DRC.\nIn July 2010 the vice-president of the DGP, Andre Kagwa Rwisereka, was found dead near a wetland in Butare with his head cut off.\nHe had been repeatedly stabbed.\nHabineza was among opposition leaders who called for an independent international investigation into the murder, which may have had a political motivation.\n"}
{"id": "56206037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56206037", "title": "Genres Pluriels", "text": "Genres Pluriels\n\nGenres pluriels (GP) is a Belgian NGO founded in 2007 by Max Nisol, Londé Ngosso and Tanguy Pinxteren to promote the visibility of gender fluid, trans and intersex persons.\n\nAt the end of 2006 Max Nisol created Les Drag Kings de Bruxelles (DKB) to organize drag king monthly workshops. During his time working with DKB, Nisol became aware of the lack of information on the subject of transidentity, and decided to create an association with the aim of providing useful information to persons affected by the issue. Nisol, along with Londé Ngosso and Tanguy Pinxteren, founded the association Genres Pluriels on October 16, 2007. Their website is available in English, French, and Dutch, and is hosted by Domaine Public [archive], a Belgian association in favor of open source software.\n\nThe DKB became independent in 2012, and continues to organize drag king events and performances. Their drag king workshops often include discussions about gender identity and gender performance.\n\nIn 2016, Genres Pluriels experienced a financial crisis, and thee members of the staff were made redundant for lack of finances.\n\nIn December 2017 the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men chose Genres Pluriels to participate on a team of equal opportunity representatives to commemorate the 15 year anniversary of the institute.\n\nIn 2017, Héloïse Guimin-Fati became a co-leader as well.\n\nGenres Pluriels serves as an advocacy group for transgender, gender fluid, and intersex persons. The association organizes different activities in Brussels and Wallonia in order to counter discrimination against trans, intersex and gender fluid persons. The websites provides articles offering a critical feminist analysis of medical, social and psychological pracitices, as well as of biology and the way it is taught.\n\nThe association claims to be part of the feminist queer movement and works in collaboration with LGBTQI and feminist associations. It adheres to the Jogjakarta Principles. The association is also in favor of gender neutral language to counter discrimination.\n\nThe aims of Genres Pluriels include eliminating trans-identities from the list of mental illnesses; eliminating forced psychiatric treatment for transgender, gender fluid, and intersex people; allowing people to change their first name, regardless of gender, for free and on demand for all documents; excluding the mention of gender on official documents; offering asylum to all transpeople, gender fluid people, and intersex people from countries where they would be in danger; allowing transgender, gender fluid, and intersex people the right to have biological children or adopt children, and to allow intersex people the right to choose their sex and gender\n"}
{"id": "12219400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12219400", "title": "Glycerol ester of wood rosin", "text": "Glycerol ester of wood rosin\n\nGlycerol ester of wood rosin, also known as glyceryl abietate or ester gum, is an oil-soluble food additive (E number E445). The food-grade material is used in foods, beverages, and cosmetics to keep oils in suspension in water, and its name may be shortened in the ingredient list as glycerol ester of rosin. It is also used as an ingredient in the production of chewing-gum and ice cream. Similar, less pure materials (glycerol ester of gum rosin) are used as a component of certain low-cost adhesives.\n\nTo make the glycerol ester of wood rosin, refined wood rosin is reacted with glycerin to produce the glycerol ester. \n\nGlycerol ester of wood rosin is an alternative to brominated vegetable oil in citrus oil-flavored soft drinks. In some cases, both ingredients are used together.\n\n"}
{"id": "48497979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48497979", "title": "Grand Model for the Province of Carolina", "text": "Grand Model for the Province of Carolina\n\nThe Grand Model (or \"Grand Modell\" as it was spelled at the time) was a utopian plan for the Province of Carolina, founded in 1670. It consisted of a constitution coupled with a settlement and development plan for the colony. The former was titled the Fundamental Constitutions of Carolina. The word \"constitutions\" (in the plural) was synonymous with \"articles.\" The document was composed of 120 constitutions, or articles. The settlement and development plan for the colony consisted of several documents, or \"instructions,\" for guiding town and regional planning as well as economic development.\n\nBoth the Fundamental Constitutions and the development plan were drafted by the English liberal philosopher John Locke while working for the Lords Proprietors of Carolina, the eight noblemen who held the royal charter to settle the colony. Locke was also a personal assistant to Anthony Ashley Cooper, the Proprietor who became the Earl of Shaftesbury soon after the principal elements of the Grand Model were drafted. Ashley Cooper is considered the founder of Carolina, thus the Grand Model may also be called the Ashley Cooper Plan. Today the term Grand Model is used more restrictively in Charleston, South Carolina to refer to the original planned area of the city.\n\nAnthony Ashley Cooper oversaw Locke's drafting of the Fundamental Constitutions of Carolina during the first decade of the Restoration, a time when the failure of the Commonwealth of England was fresh in mind. During the Commonwealth period he had served in the government of Oliver Cromwell and participated in reviewing English laws and drafting the nation's first formal constitution. Before that, English constitutional law was based on ancient constitutional documents such as the Magna Carta. The experience led Ashley Cooper to see value in adopting a formal constitution for the Province of Carolina.\n\nAlthough Ashley Cooper aided the restoration of Charles II to the throne in 1660, for which service he and the other Lords Proprietors were granted the charter for Carolina, he strongly believed in the English tradition of common law and balanced government (a system sometimes called the \"Ancient Constitution\" wherein the nobility played an essential role. The Fundamental Constitutions was designed to formalize a \"Gothic\" system of balanced government in the new province. Although described as feudalism by some authorities, the system was arguably more advanced by virtue of its constitution and emphasis on basic rights and reciprocal benefits among classes. It was nevertheless a pre-Enlightenment system predicated on class hierarchy.\n\nThe Fundamental Constitutions provided a framework for urban and regional development consistent with and supportive of the plan for governance and economic development. Once settlement began in 1670 a series of \"instructions\" were transmitted to the colonists with details that fleshed out areas that were not addressed by the Fundamental Constitutions.\n\nThe design of towns in Carolina was influenced by the intensive planning that went on in London after the Great Fire of 1666. The government of Charles II solicited plans to rebuild the city, and inspired designs were submitted by architect Christopher Wren, scientist Robert Hooke, cartographer Richard Newcourt, and landscape planner and polymath John Evelyn. Their designs influenced city planning in the areas of public health and safety, land use efficiency, and urban aesthetics.\n\nLocke first became involved with Carolina as a personal assistant to Anthony Ashley Cooper, a relationship that began in 1666. Soon afterward he became secretary to the Lords Proprietors and began drafting the Fundamental Constitutions of Carolina and associated planning materials. The precise extent to which Locke shaped the substance of the Fundamental Constitutions is unknown, but he was undoubtedly guided at least on a general level by Ashley Cooper.\n\nLocke's position with the Lords Proprietors might be described as that of \"chief planner\" for Carolina. He drafted development standards for towns as well as an illustrative plan that he included in his instructions to the colonists. His urban plan provided detailed standards for block size, lot size, street width, waterfront setbacks, and other standards similar to modern planning and zoning ordinances.\n\nLocke also wrote guiding principles for regional development that were remarkably similar to principles of modern planning, including aspects of sustainable development and smart growth. Such aspects include, a) \"consistency\" of development practices with the general plan (Fundamental Constitutions); b) \"concurrent\" provision of infrastructure with land development; and \"compactness\" of development to promote efficient use of land and access to markets.\n\nLocke famously denounced slavery in the first sentence of his \"Two Treatises of Government\", then proceeded to develop the new idea of natural equality. Since the Grand Model anticipated slavery, Locke has been labeled a hypocrite by some scholars for designing Carolina and then continuing to be associated with the venture after writing the famous indictment of slavery. While the Fundamental Constitutions contains an article establishing slavery, one can find no references to slavery in the detailed planning documents over which Locke had the most control. Thus while Locke and Ashley Cooper anticipated that Carolina would have slaves, as did most other colonies, it is unlikely that they anticipated that it would become fundamentally dependent on slavery (i.e., a \"slave society\") as later happened.\n\nOn the other hand, it must be admitted that Locke did have a certain financial interest in the institution of slavery. He invested in the notorious Royal African Company (chartered in 1660 under King Charles II of England, Scotland and Ireland), which is said to have shipped tens of thousands of slaves from West Africa to the British colonies in North America.\n\nThe Grand Model allocated more land (60 percent) and representation to \"the people\" than to the nobility, suggesting that yeoman farmers were envisioned ultimately to become the backbone of the colony. Nevertheless, a slave-owning elite was also part of the formula from the beginning. Where Ashley Cooper saw slavery as playing a vital role was in the establishment of the principal estates. In December, 1671, he advised against bringing too many of \"the poorer sort\" to the colony until \"men of estates\" could first \"stock the country with Negroes, cattle, and other necessarys.\" \n\nThe transformation of Carolina from a colony with slaves to a slave colony, and later a slave society, began when slaveowners from Barbados became the dominant force in Carolina politics during the 1780s. Barbados had evolved into a slave colony with a majority slave population during that period. The Grand Model was informally modified by the Barbadians, who took the titles of nobility, but replaced Ashley Cooper's enlightened aristocracy with a self-serving oligarchy. The new plantation elite exercised little regard for balanced government, class reciprocity, or humane treatment of the servant and slave classes.\n\nThe following components of the Grand Model influenced subsequent colonial town planning.:\n\n1. Regular settlement rather than scattered pattern of development\n2. Town, suburban, and country lot allocation\n3. Town planned and laid out in advance\n4. Wide streets laid out in geometric form usually within a square mile grid\n5. Public squares\n6. Standardized, rectangular lots\n7. Reserved lots for civic purposes\n8. Separation of town and country with a common or greenbelt\n\nPhiladelphia and Savannah were among the American cities adopting these components of the Grand Model. The Georgia Trustees acknowledged the influence of the Grand Model: \"We are indebted to the Lord Shaftsbury, and that truly wise man Mr. Locke,\" they wrote, \"for the excellent laws which they drew up for the first settlement of Carolina.\"\n\nWhile Locke's plan for Charles Town (Charleston, SC) and other cities of Carolina was only partially implemented, its grid, civic spaces, and wide streets became common features of American city planning, due in large part to the examples of Philadelphia and Savannah (see Oglethorpe Plan).\n\nThe Grand Model influenced the formation of southern, traditionalistic political culture. The model, modified by slaveowners from the Caribbean, created a formal slave society that became a model for the future states of the Deep South. The Grand Model contributed a stable plantation land use pattern and a formal social hierarchy led by nobility. The Barbadian slaveowners added large scale monoculture (sugar cane in Barbados, rice in Carolina) and a more rigid system of government and social control by a slaveowning elite. The blended system in Carolina established a pattern that was followed throughout the eighteenth century, and ultimately proved well-suited to King Cotton.\n\n"}
{"id": "23131838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23131838", "title": "Ground Zero (campaign)", "text": "Ground Zero (campaign)\n\nGround Zero was a United States advocacy and education organization devoted to nuclear weapons. Founded by former White House National Security Council official Roger Molander, it did not explicitly support the nuclear freeze, but worked to raise awareness of the nuclear threat during the period of the freeze campaign in the early 1980s.\n\nOn March 21, 1982, Molander published a prominent piece in the Washington Post discussing the nuclear threat, and from April 18 to April 25, 1982 the organization sponsored a Ground Zero Week of nationwide events to demonstrate that American cities had no defenses in the event of nuclear war. These events were sponsored by the National Education Association, United Auto Workers, the National Council of Churches, and an array of other organizations. Some have suggested that these events helped build the momentum for the large freeze demonstration in New York City that took place on June 12, 1982.\n\nGround Zero also published a mass market paperback entitled \"Nuclear War: what's in it for you?\" Printed by Pocket Books of New York, the book included four scenarios \"for killing 500 million people,\" statistics on the likely death totals of United States and Soviet Union nuclear exchanges and a layman's understanding of how nuclear weapons are designed and built.\n"}
{"id": "1981261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1981261", "title": "Half-arch (crown)", "text": "Half-arch (crown)\n\nA half-arch is the piece of gold, silver or platinum, usually decorated with jewels, that links the circlet (circular base) of a hoop crown to the monde at the top of the crown.\n\nIn the image of the Crown of Queen Elizabeth (1938), there are four half-arches, reflecting the examples of St. Edward's Crown, the State Crown of George I, the Coronation Crown of George IV and the Imperial State Crowns of Queen Victoria (1838) and George VI (1937).\n\nSimilarly other consort crowns of queens consort Mary of Modena and Adelaide of Saxe-Meiningen, the Crown of Mary of Modena and the Crown of Queen Adelaide, were made up of four half-arches, following British tradition.\n\nThe only example of a crown of a reigning British monarch possessing more than four half-arches is the Imperial Crown of India, made for King George V as Emperor of India to wear at the Delhi Durbar of 1911, and which had eight half-arches.\n\nThe three crowns in existence of the Prince of Wales, the Heir Apparent to the British throne, all have one full arch, with a globe centred on the single arch rather than being the element to which each arch separately is joined, following an instruction laid down by King Charles II in 1677. Unlike the princely crowns of 1902 and 1969 however, where the single arch rises, in the Crown of Frederick, Prince of Wales (1728) the single arch dips in the centre, with the globe located in the centre of the dip.\n\nIn contrast many European crowns traditionally contained many more, as did some other British consort crowns. For example, The crowns of two 20th century British Queens consort, the Crown of Queen Alexandra (1902) and the Crown of Queen Mary (1911), reflecting their origins as European princesses from Denmark and Germany respectively, each had eight half-arches. In addition, the British Imperial Crown of India was designed with eight half-arches to indicate the British monarch's claim to imperial title in India.\n\nThe Crown of Louis XV of France (1722), reflecting the European norm, has eight half-arches.\n\nDifferent crowns possess different shaped half arches. In some crowns, the half-arches dip down at the centre of the crown where they meet the globe. The most widely recognized example of this is St. Edward's Crown, the British coronation crown, while in others, such as Queen Elizabeth's consort crown, all four half-arches rise at a somewhat right angle, with no central dip.\n\nHowever, in the case of the State Crown of George I, while the crown as originally designed had dipping arches, they were pulled up to a right angle for the coronation of King George II and have remained in that position.\n\nIn some crowns, such as the British Imperial State Crown, the half-arches are detachable, allowing the crown to be worn as a circlet. Alexandra of Denmark, Mary of Teck and Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon (British queens consort Alexandra, Mary and Elizabeth) all at various stages wore their own crowns as circlets, particularly after the deaths of the husbands, when one of their children was on the throne and they were the Queen Mother.\n\nWhere a crown possesses arches or half-arches, the circlet of the crown below the arches or half-arches are usually filled with velvet or other cloth, or with a jewelled metal cap. Different states and different crowns may possess different coloured cloth inlays.\n\nThe most widely used colours for cloth infils are purple, as in the Crown of Queen Elizabeth and in St. Edward's Crown, and dark red, as in the Imperial Crown of Austria. \n\nHowever, not all crowns possess arches. The Danish Crown of Christian IV that was used for the coronation of elected monarchs prior to the introduction of absolutism in 1660 has no covering at all but exists in circlet form, while the Papal Tiara rises as one solid silver (or in one occasion gold) unit. Nor are arches to be found on the Iron Crown of Lombardy, any of the Iranian Crown Jewels. The Russian coronation crown possesses two central half arches, with most of the rest of the crown covered in. A same feature occurs on the mediaeval Crown of Rudolf II used by the Austrian Empire in the 19th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1165075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1165075", "title": "Hugh M‘Neile", "text": "Hugh M‘Neile\n\nHugh Boyd M‘Neile (18 July 1795 – 28 January 1879) was a well-connected and controversial Irish-born Calvinist Anglican of Scottish descent.\n\nFiercely anti-Tractarian and anti-Roman Catholic (and, even more so, anti-Anglo-Catholic) and an Evangelical and millenarian cleric, who was also a devoted advocate of the year-for-a-day principle, M‘Neile was the perpetual curate of St Jude's Liverpool (1834-1848), the perpetual curate of St Paul's Princes Park (1848-1867), an honorary canon of Chester Cathedral (1845-1868) and the Dean of Ripon (1868-1875).\n\nHe was a member of the Protestant Association (in its 19th-century incarnation), the London Society for Promoting Christianity among the Jews, the Irish Society, the Church Missionary Society, and the Church Association.\n\nM‘Neile was an influential, well-connected demagogue, a renowned public speaker, an evangelical cleric and a relentless opponent of “Popery”, who was permanently inflamed by the ever-increasing number of Irish Roman Catholics in Liverpool. He was infamous for his stirring oratory, his immoderate preaching, his prolific publications, and his inability to accurately construe the meaning of the scripture upon which his diatribes were based (see below). He was just as deeply loved, admired and respected by some, as he was an object of derision and scorn for others.\n\nHugh Boyd M‘Neile, the younger son of Alexander M'Neile (1762-1838) and Mary M'Neile, née McNeale (?-1852), was born at Ballycastle, County Antrim on 17 July 1795, just three years before the Irish Rebellion of 1798; and, in 1798, M‘Neile was taken by his mother from Ballycastle to relatives in Scotland, in an open boat, to escape the dangers and atrocities of “the troubles” associated with the Irish Rebellion (Boyd, 1968).\n\nM‘Neile's father owned considerable property (including the large farm at Collier's Hall), was a Justice of the Peace and served as the High Sheriff of the County of Antrim. His brother, John M‘Neile (1788-1855), having made his fortune in South America, returned to Ireland and was one of the founding members of the Northern Bank, the first bank in Belfast. John M‘Neile married Charlotte Lavinia Dallas (1803-1859) on 11 June 1823 and had two sons, Henry Hugh (1829-?) and Alexander John (1842-?) and one daughter, Mary Harriet (1833-1919), who married Hugh McCalmont Cairns (1810–1885), the First Earl Cairns, who served as Attorney General in the third Derby–Disraeli ministry (10 July 1866 – 29 October 1866), as Lord Chancellor in the first and second Disraeli ministries, and as (opposition) Conservative Leader in the House of Lords (1869-1870).\n\nM‘Neile was tall, extremely strong, intelligent, a good horseman and considered by most to be extremely handsome.\n\nIn 1822 M‘Neile married Anne Magee (1803-1881), the fourth daughter of William Magee (1766–1831), the Archbishop of Dublin. They had sixteen children (four of whom died early in life): three daughters, two of whom remained unmarried, and thirteen sons. As a testament to his influence, a number of his children went on to have distinguished careers, including:\n\nM‘Neile received a private education. He entered Trinity College, Dublin in 1810, and graduated Artium Baccalaureus (AB), with a good degree in classics in 1815. He also began legal studies at The King's Inns in Dublin and, having served all his terms there, transferred to London's Lincoln's Inn in 1814. He almost completed his terms there as well when, around 1819, he decided to abandon the law as well as the political career that his family had anticipated for him and return to his studies in order to qualify for ordination. He graduated \"Magister Artium\", at Dublin University in 1822.\n\nIn 1847, M‘Neilee graduated Bachelor of Divinity (BD) and Doctor of Divinity (DD) from Dublin University. In essence, the BD degree was a coursework and postgraduate degree only available to those who had graduated MA at least 10 years earlier; the DD was conventionally awarded simultaneously on the basis of published work. In M‘Neile's case the published work would have been \"The Church and the Churches\" (1846).\n\nOn 16 June 1860, an Incorporate DD — i.e., a doctorate \"ad eundem gradum\" (\"to the same degree\"), admitting M‘Neile as a member of Cambridge University by virtue of his possession of a DD from another university (Trinity College, Dublin) — was conferred upon him at Cambridge University.\n\nWhilst a student, and preparing for a career in the law, M‘Neile loved the theatre even more than the fashionable society in which he moved. He attended the theatre in Dublin, London and Bath as often as he could. In those days, Sarah Siddons, her brother John, and Eliza O'Neill (later Lady Wrixon-Becher) — all favourites of M‘Neile — were at their peak; and his later platform and pulpit performances drew very heavily on their example.\n\nWhen M‘Neile was 20, his father's unmarried brother, Lieutenant-General Daniel M’Neile (1754-1826), returned to Ireland following distinguished service with the East India Company. His uncle, who settled in Bath, delighted in M’Neile's company, and his uncle virtually adopted him; and, it seemed, he was the heir presumptive to his uncle's considerable fortune. His uncle, whose wealth and influence would have easily have procured M‘Neile a seat in parliament, and who understood that success at the bar would be a stepping-stone for the talented lad into a productive political career, encouraged him to pursue a legal career. He took his A.B. in 1815, and continued his legal studies.\n\nMost of his time between 1815 and 1819 was spent with his uncle in Bath. In 1816 he and his uncle travelled extensively on the continent, enjoying the social advantages of his uncle's influence. In the process, M’Neile spent time with mixing with influential people, such as Madame de Staël (1766–1817) and Lord Byron (1788–1824).\n\nIn the middle of 1816, whilst staying with his uncle in a Swiss village inn, M’Neile fell very seriously ill. His life was saved by the medical intervention of Henry Brougham (1778–1868), a stranger to M’Neile at the time, who had called at the inn for refreshment (or a change of horses). Upon his return to England, a changed M’Neile began reading the Bible daily and, around 1819, he experienced a conversion to Christianity within the Evangelical Anglican tradition. To his uncle's dismay, he hinted that he might give away law and politics and dedicate his life to the church. According to most accounts, when he finally announced that he was embracing church ministry as a profession, his greatly disappointed uncle \"disinherited\" him.\n\nFollowing his theological studies, M‘Neile was ordained in 1820 by his future father-in-law, William Magee (1766–1831) - who, at that time, was the Church of Ireland's Bishop of Raphoe - and served as a curate in Stranorlar, County Donegal from 1820 to 1821. Early in 1822, his preaching in London so impressed the banker and parliamentarian Henry Drummond (1786–1860) that Drummond appointed M‘Neile to the living of the parish of Albury, Surrey, from where M‘Neile's first collection of sermons, \"Seventeen Sermons, etc.\", were published in 1825.\n\nFrom 1826 to 1830, Drummond hosted the annual Albury Conferences, held in Albury for the Union of the Students of Prophecy moderated by M‘Neile. Each of the Albury Conferences involved days full of close and laborious study of the prophetical books of the Bible; attempting to seek out as-yet-unfulfilled prophecies within them. As they progressed, \"[their] prophetic speculations became more and more extreme\". It was at Albury that M‘Neile first met Edward Irving (1792-1834). Irving was a strong believer in the \"gifts\" of \"speaking in tongues\" (\"glossolalia\") and spiritual healing. It was through Irving that M‘Neile first encountered the Irish-born Okey Sisters. His experience of the deception of Okey Sisters’ reputed speaking in tongues with Irving, and his knowledge of their later association with Elliotson and his mesmerism, and their well-attested fraudulent deception of Elliotson, must have strongly informed his later views of the activities of magnetists such as Lafontaine.\n\nIn relation to the reputed prophecy, glossolalia and healing, M‘Neile became increasingly torn between his own developing view that they were not of the Holy Spirit of and his desire to remain loyal to Drummond who thought that they were. In the early 1830s, whilst still within the \"Prophetic Circle\", M‘Neile had dabbled with spiritual healing and speaking with tongues himself.\n\nBy July 1832, M‘Neile was preaching at Albury against the reputed spiritual gifts and was protesting about Drummond's private prayer meetings, because, equating Drummond's residence to a church, M‘Neile \"would not suffer laymen to pray in his presence\". Further, he most strongly objected \"[that] it was not of God\" when a female at one of Drummond's prayer sessions, which M‘Neile had \"attended reluctantly\", spoke in tongues — and, thus, \"contradicting the biblical injunction against women teaching in church\". This caused such a rift that Drummond said \"if [M‘Neile] persisted in preaching against the work of the Lord and against all who believed in it\" he would be unable to remain within the Church of England. Soon after, Drummond ceased attending services at Albury. Their relationship became so unworkable that M‘Neile resigned his post in June 1834.\nIn October 1834, at the suggestion of a friend, the Revd William Dalton (1801-1880), he was appointed to St Jude's Church, Liverpool. The church, which had been built by subscription expressly for Dalton in 1831, could comfortably hold 1,500 people (it was demolished in 1966). At St Jude's, M‘Neile had \"a handsome salary\" and \"a very large and opulent congregation\". Once installed at St Jude's, M‘Neile's eloquence attracted the attention of the Bishop of Chester — John Sumner (1780-1862), later Archbishop of Canterbury — who appointed him as an honorary canon of his cathedral. The next Bishop of Chester, John Graham (1794-1865), also held the important and influential ecclesiastical position of Clerk of the Closet to Queen Victoria. Graham was equally impressed with M‘Neile and possibly used his connections to facilitate the conferral of the Incorporate D.D. upon him in 1860.\n\nLater, at St Paul's, a 2,000 plus seat church specifically built for him and consecrated on 2 March 1848 by John Bird Sumner, then Archbishop of Canterbury elect (it closed in 1974) he enjoyed a large income. Over time, M‘Neile became a rich man and his financial independence meant that he answered to none: \"McNeile was a fighter by instinct and a political parson by principle and, supported by a confidence derived from considerable personal wealth, he was his own man.\"\nHis stipend at St Paul's was £1,000 per annum, more than twelve times that of an average curate. He also received £1,500 per annum in pew rents: \"He had a large following, and his capacity to imbue popular prejudice against Roman Catholicism with the dignity of a spiritual crusade gave him enormous and explosive influence on Merseyside.\"\n\nIn the simplest terms, the doctrines and the rituals peculiar to the Anglo-Catholics were considered, by Evangelicals such as M‘Neile, to be a blatant violations of the promise that all of the Anglican clergy routinely made: viz., to adhere to the forms of service as specified in the \"Book of Common Prayer\" — in particular, to what it demanded and what it disallowed — and to adhere to the \"Thirty-Nine Articles of Religion\".\n\nFor M‘Neile, Roman Catholicism endangered \"Britain’s providential mission to defend and propagate reformed Christianity\": this \"providential mission\" was a mission of \"nationalism\" — a concept \"contain[ing] an inherent conviction of objective national superiority\" — rather than one of \"patriotism\" (Wolffe, 1991, pp. 308–309).\n\nThe Roman Catholic Relief Act, enacted in 1829 principally to avert the threat of religious civil war in Ireland, abolished many of the restrictions on Roman Catholics that had operated in the United Kingdom for more than a century. This distressed many Anglicans such as M‘Neile, who were already fighting against the influence of Anglo-Catholics in the Church of England.\n\nIn April 1845, when speaking in the House of Commons on the Maynooth Endowment Bill, Thomas Macaulay characterized M‘Neile as \"the most powerful representative of uncompromising Protestant opinion in the country\" (McNeile, 1911, p. 265).\n\nQueen Victoria, clearly shared M‘Neile's view:\n\nIn late 1850, the Pope issued a bull, \"Universalis Ecclesiæ\", unilaterally (a) reviving the Roman Catholic hierarchy in England, (b) appointing twelve bishops and, also, (c) appointing the first English cardinal since the Reformation. This generated strong anti-Catholic sentiment among some English people. There were widespread \"No Popery\" processions and anti-\"Papal Aggression\" meetings, many of which were addressed by M‘Neile, protesting against this perceived attack on British sovereignty.\n\nIn late 1873, Queen Victoria expressed alarm at the increase of the \"Romanising tendencies\" in the Church of England. She declared that, in the absence of \"a complete Reformation\" (her preferred solution), the only remedy seemed to be for the British Parliament to give the Archbishop of Canterbury \"the power… to stop all these Ritualistic practices, dressings, bowings, etc. and every thing of that kind and, above all, all attempts at confession\". Further, she lamented “the terrible amount of bigotry, and self-sufficiency and contempt of all other Protestant Churches… [shown by the Church of England, and felt] the English Church should stretch out its arms to other Protestant Churches … and bethink itself of its dangers from Papacy, instead of trying to widen the breach with all other Protestant churches, and to magnify small differences of form”.\n\nThe growing ritualism of the Anglo-Catholics and the rise of the Oxford Movement had become so intolerable to Queen Victoria that, at her urging, and on her behalf, the Archbishop of Canterbury introduced a bill to the House of Lords on 20 April 1874, to limit the use of ritual, vestments, ornaments, etc., and to ensure all ceremonies were conducted according to the \"Book of Common Prayer\". Once enacted, many Anglo-Catholic clergy were charged with breaches of the Public Worship Regulation Act (1874); a number were placed on trial and at least five were imprisoned.\n\nIn a political speech in 1834, M‘Neile expressed his opinion on the oft-expressed view that clerics should stand aside from politics: \"It was said that ministers of religion should not mingle in politics; but God, when he made the minister, did not unmake the citizen.\" A \"big, impetuous, eloquent Irishman with a marvellously attractive personality and a magnificent voice\", he had a considerable influence on the developing religious and political life of Liverpool:\nIn 1835, M‘Neile entered a long dispute, in which he was eventually successful, with the Liverpool corporation, which had been captured by the Whigs, after the passing of the Municipal Reform Act. A proposal was carried that the elementary schools under the control of the corporation should be secularised by the introduction of what was known as the Irish National System. The threatened withdrawal of the Bible as the basis of denominational religious teaching was met by agitation led by McNeile, who so successfully enlisted public support that before the new system could be introduced every child was provided for in new Church of England schools established by public subscriptions. At the same time, M‘Neile conducted a campaign that gradually reduced the Whig element in the council until it virtually disappeared in 1841. The defeat of the Liberal parliamentary candidates in the general election of 1837, followed by a long period of Conservative predominance in Liverpool politics, was largely due to his influence.\n\n\"His eloquence was grave, flowing, emphatic — had a dignity in delivery, a perfection of elocution, that only John Bright equalled in the latter half of the 19th century. Its fire was solemn force. McNeile's voice was probably the finest organ ever heard in public oratory. His action was as graceful as it was expressive\". According to one observer, M‘Neile was “the most brilliant and highly-polished compound of natural and artificial advantages which I have ever beheld”; and, “as a specimen of appropriate action, refined oratory, stern, judicious argument, and commanding talent, all combined in one majestic whole, I may say M‘Neile is incomparable and perfectly unique” (Anon, 1838d).\n\nM‘Neile was a tenacious, dogged, relentless, and formidable foe; and, along with his extreme verbal aggression, he was a man of the most imposing physicality. He was at least 6 ft 3in tall, thick-set, and broad shouldered. He walked with a slight stoop:\n\nThere were several extraordinary aspects of his preaching, and of the pulpit from which he preached. Almost without exception, and entirely removed from the firmly established Anglican convention, M‘Neile never preached from notes; and always preached extemporaneously. His sermons routinely lasted 90 minutes; and were never measured, structured appeals to reason — they were outright, impassioned histrionic performances intentionally directed at the emotions of his audience:\n\nM‘Neile was well known for his flawed hermeneutics; viz., his inaccurate interpretation of Biblical texts. He was renowned for both his inaccurate exegesis, and for his eisegetical projections of Biblical texts onto current events.\n\nFor example, in July 1846, Queen Victoria's husband, Prince Albert, visited Liverpool and, among other duties on 31 July 1846, he officially opened the Albert Dock and laid the foundation stone for one of M‘Neile's pet projects, the Liverpool Sailors' Home.\n\nTwo days later, on 2 August 1846, M‘Neile preached a sermon, \"Every eye shall see Him\"; the text of which was immediately published.\n\nWithin his sermon — regarded, overall, as a \"most melancholy, wretched, and most degrading composition” — M‘Neile moved to speak of “The Prince in all his beauty”, mapping Prince Albert's laying of a foundation stone onto a text from Isaiah (33:17) “Thine eyes shall see the King in his beauty\"\n\nThere were many protests at his equation of \"the Saviour of the world\" with a \"colonel of hussars\" and his implicit assertion that Albert held \"title-deeds to… divinity\" (Anon, 1847h). It was clear his \"fearful irreverence\" — implying that \"an earthly prince\" visiting Liverpool had some link to \"the awful coming of the Prince of Heaven and Earth to Judgment\" — was something that \"must be [immediately] apparent to every reverent mind\"; and, further, that a \"piece of gross and rank blasphemy [was perpetrated] by making the third Person of the Holy Trinity a type of Prince Albert\".\n\nAnother extraordinary aspect was his propensity for \"[being] carried away into confessedly injudicious acts and words, which many would wish unsaid,\nundone\" (Arnold, 1875, p. 307). On 28 February 1847, he preached that the Irish Famine was an act of God's retribution, punishing the Irish for their collective sins and their tolerance of Roman Catholicism.\n\nOn the morning of 8 December 1850, when throwing \"thunderbolts\" at one of his favourite targets, the evils of the Roman Catholic confessional, M‘Neile made a series of outrageous statements of which, immediately after his sermon had been delivered, he denied any knowledge of ever having uttered;\nand, for which he specifically apologized at the evening service, and withdrew without reservation, as the following newspaper account relates:\n\nIn 1851, these events were also presented as a classic example of \"the dangers of extempore preaching\" (Gilbert, 1851, p. 10).\n\nOn the evening of Sunday, 10 April 1842, M‘Neile preached against Mesmerism for more than ninety minutes to a capacity congregation. He began, speaking of \"latter days\" — following which, Christ would return to Earth, and peace would reign for 1,000 years — and how, as the second advent neared, \"satanic agency amongst men\" would become ever more obvious; and, then, moving into a confusing admixture of philippic (against James Braid and Charles Lafontaine), and polemic (against animal magnetism), where he concluded that all mesmeric phenomena were due to \"satanic agency\". The sermon was reported on at some length in the \"Liverpool Standard\", two days later. Once Braid became fully aware of the newspaper reports of the conglomeration of matters that were reportedly raised in M‘Neile's sermon, and the misrepresentations and outright errors of fact that it allegedly contained, as well as the vicious nature of the insults, and the implicit and explicit threats which were levelled against Braid's own personal, spiritual, and professional well-being by M‘Neile, he sent a detailed private letter to M‘Neile accompanied by a newspaper account of a lecture he had delivered on the preceding Wednesday evening (13 April) at Macclesfield, and a cordial invitation (plus a free admission ticket) for M‘Neile to attend Braid's Liverpool lecture, on Thursday, 21 April.\n\nYet, despite Braid's courtesy, in raising his deeply felt concerns directly to M‘Neile, in private correspondence, M‘Neile did not acknowledge Braid's letter nor did he attend Braid's lecture. Further, in the face of all the evidence Braid had presented, and seemingly, \"without the slightest correction of its original contents\", M‘Neile allowed the entire text of his original sermon, as it had been transcribed by a stenographer (more than 7,500 words), to be published on Wednesday, 4 May 1842. It was this ‘most ungentlemanly’ act of M‘Neile towards Braid, that forced Braid to publish his own response as a pamphlet; which he did on Saturday, 4 June 1842; a pamphlet which, in Crabtree's opinion is \"a work of the greatest significance in the history of hypnotism, and of utmost rarity\" (1988, p. 121).\n\nAside from the newspaper reports of the M'Neile's actual sermon, there were at least twelve published responses to the published version of the sermon and its contents.\n\nM'Neile was in close sympathy with the philanthropic work, as well as the religious views, of the Earl of Shaftesbury, who tried hard to persuade Lord Palmerston to make him a bishop. Although Palmerston usually followed the advice of Shaftesbury in the appointment of bishops, he would not consent to the elevation to the House of Lords of so powerful a political opponent as M'Neile, whom Lord John Russell had accused of frustrating the education policy of the Liberal Party for thirty years.\n\nOn 13 August 1868, William Goode, the Dean of Ripon, the senior Anglican cleric in the Diocese of Ripon after the Bishop of Ripon, died suddenly.\n\nOn 14 August, Disraeli wrote to Queen Victoria, recommending that the Queen immediately appoint M'Neile to the vacancy, arguing in support of his case that, \"at this critical conjuncture [M'Neile] is gaining golden opinions all over England for his eloquent, learned and commanding advocacy of the Royal supremacy …\" (Buckle (1926a), p. 533). The Queen's detailed response, written on her behalf by Major General Sir Thomas Myddleton Biddulph, the joint Keeper of the Privy Purse, spoke directly of her reluctance:\nIn his response, written on 19 August, Disraeli replied that he had only recommended M‘Neile after the most anxious and deep consideration. Further, and given that he was being subjected to considerable pressure to elevate M‘Neile from a number of quarters (including \"the vast number of letters [Disraeli] daily receives on the subject\"), he strongly advised the Queen to appoint M‘Neile to the Deanery of Ripon, on the basis that he (Disraeli) had consulted the Lord Chancellor (Hugh Cairns, M‘Neile's nephew by marriage) \"on this matter\", and that Cairns was \"very strongly in favour of the appointment\".\n\nHe also indicated to the Queen that, in his view, and regardless of her declared reservations, such an appointment was prudent: \"the step … would be favourably received by the High Church party [viz., 'faction'], who feel that the claims of Canon McNeile cannot be overlooked\"; and, more significantly, he noted that, if he were to be \"overlooked\" at this time, the pressures might become such that if he were to be \"passed over\" at this time, he might well gain an even \"higher preferment\" than the Dean of Ripon.\n\nM‘Neile was hurriedly appointed to the vacancy at Rippon, and was installed on 29 October 1868.\n\nHe served in that position until he retired due to ill health on 31 October 1875.\n\nFollowing his installation as the Dean of Ripon (on 29 October 1868), M‘Neile made his last speech in Liverpool on 4 November 1868. A group of his friends and parishioners, \"having resolved to erect a full-length marble statue of him in Liverpool, in commemoration of his many valuable and long-continued services in the cause of religion and religious education\", announced the next day that they were accepting donations to the Statue Fund, the maximum contributions to which were fixed at £5.\n\nIn May the following year, the statue committee announced that its target amount had been reached and that an eminent sculptor, George Gammon Adams, had been commissioned to produce the work and that Adams had already had several sittings with M‘Neile. The statue was carved from a pure white 8-ton block of Italian Carrara marble (the same marble as Michelangelo's \"David\").\n\nAdams took 18 months to finish the , 3-ton statue; and it was finished in mid-October. On 28 October 1870, the Liverpool Council considered a request from the McNeile Statue Committee \"that the statue be accepted for placement in St George’s Hall\" (Cavanagh, 1997, p. 281). The suggestion it should place a statue of M‘Neile in such a conspicuous place of honour, \"produced an acrimonious discussion\"; and, given the fierce objections by a considerable number present, the subject was deferred, for the simple reason that every statue that had been placed in St. George's Hall up to that time, had been accepted by a unanimous vote.\n\nAt the next meeting, on 9 November 1870, the first chaired by the new Lord Mayor, Joseph Gibbons Livingston (who was a strong supporter of M‘Neile), various motions were put, various amendments were proposed, and a number of very strongly held views were expressed. Despite the convention requiring a unanimous vote, it seems the majority (the final vote was 36 \"aye\" to 16 \"nay\") were prepared to take the view that, whatever divisive conduct M‘Neile may have displayed, he deserved recognition as a writer and orator, and agreed to place the statue amongst the other eleven local and national dignitaries (Cavanagh, 1977).\n\nThe established Liverpool custom was a public unveiling, with \"the most prestigious guest available invited to officiate\". These were great popular occasions, wherein \"extended eulogies [were] delivered by the succession of committee-members and honoured guests\", reports of which were \"invariably peppered with the parenthetic \"cheers\", \"hear-hears\", \"applause\" and, even, \"loud and extended applause\" from crowds that attendant reporters frequently emphasized \"encompassed all classes and creeds\" (Cavanagh, 1997, p.xvi). Yet, in the case of M‘Neile's statue, it was brought to Liverpool and placed on its pedestal in the dark of night, and was unveiled \"without any ceremonial\" in St. George's Hall, three days later, on the evening of Monday, 5 December, in the presence of the Mayor, the chairman, secretary, and other several members of the Statue Committee, several \"ladies\", M‘Neile's son, the Revd Edmund Hugh M‘Neile (who took over St. Paul's, Princes Park from his father) and the Revd Dyson Rycroft, Honorary Canon of Liverpool.\n\nOften, according to the established Liverpool custom, the sculptor would be present; and, on occasion, the sculptor might even deliver a short speech. In the case of M‘Neile's statue, the sculptor was the only one to speak; and, moreover, Adams had to unveil M‘Neile's statue himself.\n\nThe final irony is that, of all the statues, \"the only statue in St George’s Hall to cause offence because of the character of its subject, is also the only statue to have received unanimous acclaim as a work of art\" (Cavanagh, 1997, p. 282):\n\nM‘Neile died in Bournemouth on 28 January 1879 after a short illness.\n\nHe was interred in the midst of a severe snowstorm at Bournemouth New Cemetery on 1 February 1879. The funeral ceremony was officiated by the Bishop of Peterborough (his nephew, William Connor Magee (1821–1891)), assisted by his son, the Revd Edmund M‘Neile (1840-1893).\n\nEarl Cairns (1810–1885), who was related to M'Neile through his marriage to M'Neile's niece, Mary Harriet M'Neile (1833-1919), and Lord Shaftesbury (1801–1885) were amongst the mourners. Throughout the day the muffled minute bell of Ripon Cathedral was tolled and the cathedral's lectern and pulpit were each covered with a black cloth.\n\n"}
{"id": "45403637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45403637", "title": "Information security awareness", "text": "Information security awareness\n\nInformation security awareness is an evolving part of information security that focuses on raising consciousness regarding potential risks of the rapidly evolving forms of information and the rapidly evolving threats to that information which target human behavior. As threats have matured and information has increased in value, attackers have increased their capabilities and expanded to broader intentions, developed more attack methods and methodologies and are acting on more diverse motives. As information security controls and processes have matured, attacks have matured to circumvent controls and processes. Attackers have targeted and successfully exploited individuals human behavior to breach corporate networks and critical infrastructure systems. Targeted individuals who are unaware of information and threats may unknowingly circumvent traditional security controls and processes and enable a breach of the organization. In response, information security awareness is maturing. Cybersecurity as a business problem has dominated the agenda of most chief information officers (CIO)s, exposing a need for countermeasures to today's cyber threat landscape. The goal of Information security awareness is to make everyone aware that they are susceptible to the opportunities and challenges in today’s threat landscape, change human risk behaviors and create or enhance a secure organizational culture.\n\nInformation security awareness is one of several key principles of information security. Information security awareness seeks to understand and enhance human risk behaviors, beliefs and perceptions about information and information security while also understanding and enhancing organizational culture as a countermeasure to rapidly evolving threats. For example, the OECD's \"Guidelines for the Security of Information Systems and Networks\" include nine generally accepted principles: awareness, responsibility, response, ethics, democracy, risk assessment, security design and implementation, security management, and reassessment. In the context of the Internet, this type of awareness is sometimes referred to as cyber security awareness, which is the focus of multiple initiatives, including the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's National Cyber Security Awareness Month and President Obama's 2015 White House Summit on Cybersecurity and Consumer Protection.\n\nComputer based crimes are not something new to us. Viruses have been with us for well over 20 years; spyware has clocked up more than a decade since the earliest incidents; and large-scale use of phishing can be traced back to at least 2003. One of the\nreasons researchers agreed upon that the pace at information system is evolving and expanding, the security awareness program among the employees is falling way behind. Unfortunately, however, it seems that the rapid adoption of online services has not been matched with a corresponding embrace of security culture.\n\nInformation security awareness is evolving in response to the evolving nature of cyber attacks, increased targeting of personal information and the cost and scale of information security breaches. Furthermore, many individuals think of security in terms of technical controls, not realizing that they as individuals are targets, and that their behavior can increase risks or provide countermeasures to risks and threats.\n\nDetermining and measuring information security awareness has highlighted the need for accurate metrics. In response to this need, information security awareness metrics are rapidly evolving in order to understand and measure the human threat landscape, measure and change human understanding and behavior, measure and reduce organizational risk and measure effectiveness and cost of information security awareness as a countermeasure.\n\nMost of the organizations do not want to invest money on information security. A survey conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers (2014) found that current employees (31%) and former employees (27%) still contribute to information security incidents. The survey results indicated that the number of actual incidents attributable to employees had risen by 25% since the 2013 survey.\n\nA security awareness program is the best solution that an organization can adopt to reduce the security threats caused by internal employees. A security awareness program helps employees to understand that the information security is not an individual’s responsibility; it is the responsibility of everyone. The program also explicitly mentions that the employees are responsible for all activities performed under their identifications. Furthermore, the program enforces the standard ways of handling business computers. \n\nAlthough organizations have not adopted a standard way of providing the security awareness program, a good program should include awareness about data, network, user conduct, social media, use of mobile devices and WiFi, phishing emails, social engineering and different types of viruses and malware. An effective employee security awareness program should make it clear that everyone in the organization is responsible for IT security. Auditors should pay close attention to six areas covered in the program: data, networks, user conduct, social media, mobile devices, and social engineering. \n\nMany organizations make their privacy policies very complicated that the diverse employees always fail to understand those regulations. Privacy Policy is something that should be reminded to the employees whenever they login to the business computer. Privacy Policies should be clearer, shorter and more standardized to enable better comprehension and comparison of privacy practices. Organizations can create interactive sessions for all employees to attend every week to speak about security and threats. Interactive sessions may include awareness about newer threats, best practices and questions & answers. \n\nA security awareness program may not be beneficial if the organization does not penalize the violators. Employees who have found guilty of violating the program should be reported to the higher executives for further action, otherwise the program will not be effective. Information security authorities may perform a gap analysis to find out any deficiencies in the program.\n\nAs of early 2015, CIOs rated information security awareness related issues as top strategic priorities. For example, at a February 2015 \"Wall Street Journal\" CIO network event convened to create a prioritized set of recommendations to drive business and policy in the coming year, consensus seemed to form around cybersecurity and delivering change through effective communication with the rest of the business.\n\nWhile information security awareness and high-profile breaches are at the forefront of most organization's agenda, a recent study of 220 security awareness officers by Lance Spritzner has uncovered three related key findings. First, executive and financial support are necessary for a successful security awareness program. Second, due to the technical nature of traditional security controls and countermeasures, the soft skills necessary to understand and change human behavior are lacking and finally, in terms of a maturity model, security awareness is still in its infancy.\n\nEffectively measuring human risk behavior is difficult because risky behaviors, beliefs and perceptions are often unknown. In addition attacks such as phishing, social engineering, incidents such as data leakage and sensitive data posted on social media sites and even breaches go undetected and unknown making it difficult to determine and measure points of failure. Often, attacks, incidents and breaches are reacted to or reported from outside the compromised organization after attackers have covered their tracks, and thus cannot be researched and measured proactively. In addition, malicious traffic often goes unnoticed because attackers often spy and mimic known behavior in order to prevent any intrusion detection or access monitoring alerts.\n\nA 2016 study developed a method of measuring security awareness . Specifically they measured \"understanding about circumventing security protocols, disrupting the intended functions of systems or collecting valuable information, and not getting caught\" (p. 38). The researchers created a method that could distinguish between experts and novices by having people organize different security scenarios into groups. Experts will organize these scenarios based on centralized security themes where novices will organize the scenarios based on superficial themes.\n\nWhere simulated phishing campaigns are run regularly, they can provide measures of user compliance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54107432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54107432", "title": "Intersex rights in Nepal", "text": "Intersex rights in Nepal\n\nIn 2015, Nepal introduced constitutional recognition for \"gender and sexual minorities\". Despite this, the rights situation of intersex people in Nepal (locally termed \"antarlingi\") is unclear. Local activists have identified human rights violations, including significant gaps in protection of rights to physical integrity and bodily autonomy, and protection from discrimination. A first national meeting of intersex people look place in early 2016, with support from the UNDP.\n\nThe Blue Diamond Society, established in 2001, seeks to represent LGBTI people in Nepal politically and has pursued political and social rights. On December 21, 2007 the Supreme Court ruled that a new democratic government must create laws to protect LGBTI rights and change existing laws that were tantamount to discrimination. In September 2015, several articles mentioning the rights of gender and sexual minorities in the country's new constitution were approved by Parliament after lengthy deliberation. Amongst these:\n\nThe constitution went into effect on 20 September 2015. These changes mean that Nepal is likely the most progressive country in South Asia, for LGBT rights. Nevertheless, numerous difficulties are reported by intersex people in Nepal, including the right to change gender assignment, the right to bodily autonomy, and the right to health.\n\nIn February 2018, Asian intersex activists published the Statement of Intersex Asia and the Asian Intersex Forum, setting out local demands.\n\nIntersex people are locally termed \"antarlingi\". \n\nIntersex issues in Nepal may often be thought to be third sex issues, and the most well-known third-gender group in South Asia is perhaps the \"hijra\". Serena Nanda writes that: \"There is a widespread belief in India that \"hijras\" are born hermaphrodites [intersex] and are taken away by the \"hijra\" community at birth or in childhood, but I found no evidence to support this belief among the \"hijras\" I met, all of whom joined the community voluntarily, often in their teens.\" This belief has an impact when infants are born. Warne and Raza argue that an association between intersex and hijra people is mostly unfounded but provokes parental fear about the possible future life of their child.\n\nIntersex persons are not protected from violations to physical integrity and bodily autonomy. A 2016 book of personal stories by intersex people from Nepal identifies a range of bodily autonomy and health issues, including \"Intersex genital mutilation as a growing practice and lack of information and access to reproductive health information or care\" and \"Lack of access to necessary health care for those experiencing health difficulties as a result of their intersex variation\".\n\nIn June 2016, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child questioned the Nepalese government, and identified concerns about:\n\nThe Committee called for investigations of human rights violations, education of medical professionals, and access to redress.\n\nWhile the 2015 constitution provides protection for sexual and gender minorities, disabled people, and minorities more generally, Esan Regmi has identified a number of issues facing intersex people in Nepal, including discrimination, and a lack of intersex-specific research and actions within Nepal's LGBTI movement. Access to marriage and inheritance rights are also concerns.\n\nAccording to local intersex activists, intersex people are not able to change name or gender marker on Nepalese birth certificates, and also have difficulties in updating academic transcripts and citizenship certificates.\n\nOn February 8-9, 2016, and with the support of the UNDP and other organizations, the Blue Diamond Society hosted a first national meeting on intersex issues. The meeting was led by Esan Regmi, with 13 participants from around Nepal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4019500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4019500", "title": "Jobbik", "text": "Jobbik\n\nJobbik, the Movement for a Better Hungary (), commonly known as Jobbik (), is a Hungarian political party with radical and nationalist roots. At its beginnings the party described itself as \"a principled, conservative and radically patriotic Christian party\", whose \"fundamental purpose\" is the protection of \"Hungarian values and interests.\" The party has been described as an \"anti-Semitic organization\" by \"The Independent\" and a \"neo-Nazi party\" by the president of the European Jewish Congress. Philosopher Ágnes Heller, a Holocaust survivor, says that Jobbik has never been a neo-Nazi party, although she described them as far-right and racist.\n\nSince 2014 Jobbik has started to re-define itself as a conservative people's party and changed the controversial elements of its communication. According to the party's Manifesto on the guidelines of a future government, Jobbik represents all Hungarian citizens and people and aims to build a modern national identity, while rejecting the chauvinism of the 20th century. After the Hungarian parliamentary elections on 8 April 2018, the party polled 1,092,806 votes, securing 19.06% of the total, making them Hungary's second largest party in the National Assembly.\n\nThe Movement for a Better Hungary more commonly goes under its abbreviated name Jobbik, which is in fact a play on words. The word \"jobb\" in Hungarian has two meanings, the adjective for \"better\" and the direction \"right\"; the comparative \"Jobbik\" therefore means both \"the more preferable choice\" and \"more to the right\". This is similar to the English phrase \"right choice\", which could mean both \"a choice on the right side of the political spectrum\" and \"a correct choice\".\n\nCurrently, the party describes itself as a modern conservative people's party.\n\nEarlier, the party often defined itself as \"a principled, conservative and radically patriotic Christian party\", whose \"fundamental purpose\" was the protection of \"Hungarian values and interests\". Since then, Jobbik has implemented major changes in its program and policies, due to its growing popularity and broadening supporter groups. Earlier Jobbik's ideology has been described by political scholars as right-wing populist, whose strategy \"relies on a combination of ethno-nationalism with anti-elitist populist rhetoric and a radical critique of existing political institutions\". \nFor its part, Jobbik rejects the common classification of the political spectrum in left and right. The party sees itself as patriotic. The party has always rejected the term 'far-right', and instead labeled itself as 'radical right-wing'. It has also criticised media companies for labelling them as 'far-right' and has threatened to take action towards those who do. In 2014, the Supreme Court of Hungary ruled that Jobbik cannot be labeled \"far-right\" in any domestic radio or television transmissions, as this would constitute an opinion because Jobbik has refuted the 'far-right' label.\n\nSince 2014 the party has not used the \"radical right-wing\" term to define itself, stating that Jobbik aims to represent all Hungarian people, not exclusively the right-wing of the political spectrum.\n\nAt its beginnings, Jobbik described itself as rejecting \"global capitalism\" and European Union, because they felt disappointed with the conditions of the Hungarian EU accession. While the party previously also opposed Zionism, the party's leader, Gabor Vona, stated in February 2017 that he has \"never questioned Israel’s existence\" and that the party supports a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict. In July 2018, the party also voted in the European Parliament in favour of greater security coordination with Israel. At some level the party adheres to Pan-Turanism, an ideology that asserts that Hungarians originate from the Ural–Altaic race. Consequently, the party strongly supports closer ties with Turkey, with Vona criticizing the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt and praising Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan as a \"very strong leader\".\n\nAccording to Gábor Vona, the president of Jobbik, after 2014 the party has grown out of its \"adolescence\" and reached its adulthood. Since then Jobbik defines itself as a national people's party and has significantly changed its views on the European Union, while in the internal politics the party has started to emphasize the opening towards the different groups of the Hungarian society. At the same time Gábor Vona distanced the party from \"wrong statements\" that it had made in the past.\n\nJobbik, according to the recent remarks from the party, does not regard ideological issues as a primary goal anymore but puts focus on the elimination of social tensions and controversies as well as on the fight against the growing corruption in the public sphere and administration.\n\nIn summer of 2016 Gábor Vona, the president of Jobbik, declared a new style of politics, called \"modern conservativism\" with the aim to exceed the pointless debates between the right- and the left-wing and to induct cooperation among Hungarians with different political backgrounds. According to Vona, the goal of \"modern conservativism\" is, beyond politics, to build a society that can, by its proactivity, be a basis for a more democratic political functioning. As a historical precedent, he referred to the ideals of István Széchenyi, who is considered as one of the greatest statesmen of the Hungarian history.\n\nSince its formation, Jobbik had a strongly critical stance towards the European Union. The party regarded the accession of Hungary a failure, and looked on the EU as an organization that did not serve the interests of the Hungarians. However, even in this period, the party did not refuse the idea of a radically reformed European confederation. After the Brexit and the continuous debates on the future of the European Union, the party has reassessed its views on the EU and started to emphasize that by adequate policies a reform of the EU, that could make the organization advantageous for the European nations, is possible. According to Jobbik, Hungary should join the Eurozone as soon as possible since it is a not a political but an economic question. On his press conference on 27 October 2017 the president of the party, Gábor Vona told, if some conditions were fulfilled Jobbik could even support further deepening of the EU.\n\nJobbik considers the issue of decreasing the differences between the regions of the EU especially important. Thus, the party sees a strong convergence of the countries as an important goal. Reducing the economic differences between the Western and the Eastern part of the European Union and the development of the Eastern regions are key elements of the new EU-policy of Jobbik. According to the party, for the lack of development Eastern Central European governments and the European Union, that has turned a blind eye on corruption, are equally responsible. Therefore, Jobbik played a leading role in the formation of the Wage Union European Citizens' Initiative, that started its work on 14 March 2017 with the participation of representatives from 8 Central European countries.\n\nAt its beginnings Jobbik rejected globalised capitalism, and the influence of foreign investors in Hungary. In the past, Jobbik has specifically opposed aggressive Israeli investment in Hungary and selling out of the country. On 4 May 2013, protesting the World Jewish Congress's choice to locate their 2013 congress in Budapest, party chairman Gabor Vona said, \"The Israeli conquerors, these investors, should look for another country in the world for themselves because Hungary is not for sale\", responding to a highly controversial 10 October 2007 speech of Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres. Peres' statement that \"from such a small country as ours it is almost amazing, that we are buying up Manhattan, Hungary, Romania and Poland\" inflicted a heated debate in the Hungarian public discourse and the Israeli diplomacy had to explain the controversial words several times.\n\nAccording to the 2017 Manifesto on the party's guidelines, an innovative economic policy should be followed, that's goal is to find the opportunities in the global economy. An increasingly important point of Jobbik's economic policy is the creation of a more competitive national economy that is able to provide higher wages. The party aims to support SMEs and a balanced development with multinational companies.\n\nThe party argues that the national police should be greatly strengthened and, along with the Fidesz, supports introducing a \"three strikes law\". However, political rivals of Jobbik claim that its connections with the \"Magyar Gárda\" militia (which is now banned) cast doubt on the party's commitment to peace and order in Hungarian society, and even within party ranks.\n\nJobbik have promised to restore the death penalty if they come to power.\n\nJobbik strongly promotes the welfare of the large Hungarian populations living outside Hungary as ethnic minorities. The party demands minority rights for these groups in accordance with Western European standards. Along with almost all current Hungarian political parties, Jobbik demands the reestablishment of \"territorial autonomy\" in the Székely Land of Romania, and desires to make Carpathian Ruthenia an independent Hungarian district on the model of South Tyrol. Jobbik is frequently accused of agitating for a return to pre-Treaty-of-Trianon borders. However, Jobbik has never suggested changing borders by force, and believes that the ultimate solution is territorial and cultural autonomy within a European Union framework of minority rights.\n\nOne fourth of ethnic Hungarians live outside the country. Many suffer discrimination because of their ethnicity, causing frequent diplomatic disputes between Hungary and its neighbors. Jobbik dedicates itself to supporting the cause of Hungarian minorities in adjoining countries, vocally defending their schools, churches and cultural values.\n\nThe party's 2009 election slogan \"Hungary belongs to the Hungarians\" (\"Magyarország a Magyaroké!\") attracted much scrutiny. While some critics dismissed the slogan as a tautology, others considered it a call to bigotry and complained to the National Electoral Commission, which ruled it \"unconstitutional\" on the eve of the election.\n\nOn 11 March 2014, in response to a demonstration in Târgu Mureș, the Romanian president Traian Băsescu publicly called for a ban on Jobbik members from entering Romania.\n\nBesides defending the rights of ethnic Hungarians living abroad, Jobbik actively supports the cultural autonomy and language rights of the autochthonous ethnic minorities living in Hungary.\n\nThe party has a pragmatic stance on cooperation among the Central European nations and states and, despite historical differences, strongly supports their common action within the EU. Jobbik leaders have called for action in the framework of the Wage Union European Citizens' Initiative.\n\nThe group was established in 2002 as the Right-Wing Youth Community (\"Jobboldali Ifjúsági Közösség – JOBBIK\") by a group of Catholic and Protestant university students, and became a political party in October 2003.. The new party elected Dávid Kovács as president, serving until 2006. A key figure was Gergely Pongrátz, who in a speech to the founding conference invoked the Hungarian Revolution of 1956.\n\nAround Christmas 2003, Jobbik conducted a nationwide programme of erecting crosses, to remind Hungarians of the \"true meaning\" of the holiday. The move was criticized by several Christian intellectual groups.\n\nEven though the far-right Hungarian Justice and Life Party (MIÉP) and Jobbik had publicly quarreled, the parties formed an electoral alliance for the 2006 national elections, the MIÉP–Jobbik Third Way Alliance of Parties. The alliance sought to win votes from the major conservative Fidesz party.\n\nHowever, the alliance won only 2.2% of the votes, and Jobbik largely withdrew from it. In 2009 the State Audit Office (ÁSZ) reported the alliance for grave breaches of accounting rules. Jobbik blamed MIÉP alone for the irregularities.\n\nJobbik fought the 2010 and 2014 general elections without political allies. Recently, some left-wing intellectuals suggested a coalition between the left-liberal parties and Jobbik to challenge the Fidesz government; however Jobbik rejected the idea to cooperate with parties which they call \"20th century powers\". Nevertheless, Gábor Vona said in an interview that “We will need several bridges ... to voters on the left, not to parties on the left. Jobbik offers a message, a program both to former leftist and former rightist voters.”\n\nDuring the 2000s public order was one of the key topics of the Hungarian political life, especially after in 2006 Roma people lynched a Hungarian teacher in the Eastern Hungarian village of Olaszliszka. The case turned public attention to the failure of Roma integration and the inability of the Hungarian police to maintain law and order in the Hungarian countryide. The idea of setting up a \"national guard\", similar to the National Guard of the United States, became widespread among the conservative political parties of Hungary.\n\nIn June 2007, Gábor Vona, supported by the party, founded and registered the organisation called Magyar Gárda \"Hungarian Guard\", which says in its deed of foundation that it intends to become \"part or core\" of a national guard to be set up in accordance with the Gabriel Bethlen programme, and it also wishes to participate actively \"in strengthening national self-defence\" and \"maintaining public order\" as well as supporting and organising social and charity missions, in disaster prevention and civil defence. The foundation of the Guard was accompanied by sharp political debate.\n\nOn 10 March 2008 three leading figures resigned from the party: founding president Dávid Kovács, committee chairman Ervin Nagy, and former ethics committee chairman Márton Fári. They named the Hungarian Guard as the cause of their resignation, stating that \"Jobbik has been merged inseparably with the Guard, taking responsibility for something that it cannot really control in the long run\".\n\nOn 2 July 2009 the Metropolitan Court of Appeal (\"Fővárosi Ítélőtábla\") disbanded the Hungarian Guard Movement because the court held that its activities attacked the human rights of minorities guaranteed by the Constitution of Hungary. The Guard has attempted to reorganize itself as a civil service association, the \"Magyar Gárda Foundation\", engaged in cultural and nation building activities rather than politics. Its renewed activities are opposed by the Hungarian authorities and prosecutors claim that the founding of the new organization is in contempt of previous court rulings.\n\nAfter several schisms, the organization has largely ceased activity. On January 28, 2017, some radical members of Magyar Gárda held a demonstration against Gábor Vona outside Jobbik's year-opening event. Participants denounced the new politics of Jobbik as a betrayal of the right wing.\n\nBefore the 2014 parliamentary elections a new political trend, the so-called \"néppártosodás\" (transition to a people's party) appeared in Jobbik. The party adopted a new style of communication while reversing many radical elements of its earlier program. Jobbik leaders declared that it has turned from a radical right-wing party into a moderate conservative people's party. President Gábor Vona, in an interview, promised to \"cut the wildlings\", the one-time radicals.\n\nIn 2016, the party pursued its strategy of de-demonization by abandoning parts of its original ideological corpus and excluding certain extremist elements, in order to make its image more respectable and incarnate a credible opposition to the conservative government of Viktor Orbán. Despite Jobbik's pledges, particularly to the Jewish community in Hungary, many left-wing intellectuals and political figures say they want to keep their distance from an organization deemed as undemocratic. On the contrary philosopher Ágnes Heller, Holocaust survivor, considers that it's necessary to ally with all opposition parties, including Jobbik, to defeat the Orbán's Fidesz. At the local level, however, implicit alliances were formed between left-wing parties and Jobbik in partial municipal elections to defeat the ruling-government's party.\n\nAlthough the party is commonly described as far-right by observers and in the international press, some media now consider that it's more difficult to classify Jobbik as it currently stands on the far-right, because of its de-demonization and Fidesz's ever-increasing right-wingisation rhetoric, or even that Jobbik is currently a right-wing party.\n\nThe Jobbik's strategy, moving away from its far-right roots and staking out a more centrist position, has also resulted in the emergence of more radical dissident formations, like the new party Force and Determination.\n\nDue to the disillusioning of young people because no-perspectives, decreasing living conditions and frustrating level of state corruption, popularity of Jobbik skyrocketed among younger generations. Since 2014 Jobbik consciously tried to address young people that are disappointed with other parties. As a result of its youth policy Jobbik's popularity has risen to a never seen level. According to an international survey, conducted in 2016, 53 percent of the young Hungarians aged between 18 and 35 years would vote for Jobbik.\n\nFollowing the 2018 parliamentary election, Gábor Vona resigned, due to his earlier promises that he would resign if he could not lead the party to victory on the elections. Despite rumors that Jobbik would change its policies, the National Board of the party unanimously decided in favor of the moderate right-wing conservative wing. On 12 May 2018 the party elected Tamás Sneider as the president and Márton Gyöngyösi as the executive vice-president of the party. The Hungarian press evaluated the new presidency as a victory of the moderate politicians. Tamás Sneider told he wanted to build a socially conscious party based on the teachings of Christianity.\n\nLászló Toroczkai who ran for the leadership election against Támas and who got 46.2% in the election, he would later tell reporters he had formed a new hardline platform and gave party leaders until June 23 to integrate it in party policy or risk a break-up of Jobbik. He said the platform entailed a return to goals pursued by the original Jobbik, including an end to immigration, stemming emigration of Hungarian youth to the wealthier west of the EU, a tough line on Hungary's Roma minority and support for ethnic Hungarian minorities in neighboring states. In June 2018, Toroczkai and Dóra Dúró would form their own party Our Home Movement.\n\nIn November 7, 2018, László Toroczkai announced to the media news, the Our Home Movement party got 3 former Jobbik politicians, István Apáti, Erik Fülöp and János Volner joins to Toroczkai's political party.\n\nJobbik was until 2014 a founding member of the Alliance of European National Movements, alongside the French National Front, the Ukrainian Svoboda, Italy's Tricolour Flame, the British National Party, the Swedish National Democrats, the Finnish Blue and White Front, the Portuguese National Renovator Party, and the Spanish Republican Social Movement.\n\nJobbik currently has ties to the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Bulgarian United Patriots, the Latvian National Alliance, the Polish National Movement, the Indian Bharatiya Janata Party, the Russian Rodina, and the Turkish Nationalist Movement Party.\n\nJobbik has proposed joining the European People's Party, but was rejected in August 2018.\n\nThe party has strenuously denied allegations of anti-semitism or racism, as being either politically motivated or simply false. It has also dismissed the criticism of perceived anti-semitism, racism and homophobia as the \"favourite topics\" of the political opponents. Even so, the movement has been accused of playing on those fears.\n\nOn the eve of the 2009 elections to the European parliament, a comment was posted on an unofficial and unverified Hungarian political internet forum, allegedly in the name of Krisztina Morvai, who then headed the party's electoral list. Addressing their remarks to Hungarian Jews the comment poster stated that they \"would be glad if the so-called proud Hungarian Jews went back to playing with their tiny circumcised dicks instead of vilifying me.\" News of this comment, which has been roundly condemned, spread rapidly around the world and eventually even featured in an article by \"The Economist\". Morvai's critics have pointed to her refusal to even discuss the issue, let alone deny it; implying that this is sufficient to ascribe authorship of the remarks to her.\n\nHer supporters however, claim that though she certainly has a record of being critical of the state of Israel given a sympathy for the Palestinian cause she developed while working as an international human rights lawyer, the idea of Morvai being an anti-Semite is \"simply ridiculous,\" given that at the time of her alleged remarks she was married to a Hungarian of Jewish origin, with whom she has three children, but from whom she is now separated. \n\nIn a newsletter published by a group calling itself \"The trade union of Hungarian police officers prepared for action\", the following was allegedly printed: \"Given our current situation, anti-Semitism is not just our right, but it is the duty of every Hungarian homeland lover, and we must prepare for armed battle against the Jews.\" The editor of the union, Judit Szima, was a Jobbik candidate in the upcoming election for the European Union parliament. \"Haaretz\" alleged Szima \"didn't see anything wrong with the content of the article.\" Cooperation between Jobbik and the trade union led by Szima was dismantled in 2010 and since then there is no affiliation between them.\n\nDuring spring 2012, Jobbik representative in Hungarian parliament Zsolt Baráth caused an outrage by commemorating 1882 blood libel against the Jews in Parliament. The Tiszaeszlár blood libel, found later to be unrelated to Jews, was known as first major anti-Jewish event in modern Hungary, predating the Holocaust. The speech of Baráth caused controversy among Jobbik MPs: some - however finding it inappropriate and uncalled for - stated that in a matured democracy there should not be taboo topics, while leaders of the Jobbik Parliamentary Group told the media that they had evaluated the speech and learnt the lesson that they should care more about what their MPs say. After the incident Baráth was not re-elected and is no longer an MP of Jobbik.\n\nIn November 2012, while evaluating the latest news on the controversial Israeli military action in the Gaza strip, the party's deputy parliamentary leader, , stated in his speech in the Parliament: \"I think such a conflict makes it timely to tally up people of Jewish ancestry who live here, especially in the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government, who, indeed, pose a national security risk to Hungary.\" Márton Gyöngyösi admitted immediately after his speech that he had composed his sentence wrongly, as he thought of MPs with Israeli-Hungarian double citizenship and not of Jewish people. At the same time Gyöngyösi offered an apology. As Al Jazeera reported, the incident led to \"international condemnation of Nazi-style policies and a protest outside the legislature in Budapest. Around ten thousand Hungarians in Budapest protested against Gyöngyösi's anti-Semitic remarks. All major Hungarian political parties took part in the protest. At the protest, Attila Mesterházy the leader of the successor of the state party of the communist era, the Hungarian Socialist Party, described Jobbik as a \"fascist possessions virus\", while 5th district of Budapest mayor Antal Rogán, representing the governing Fidesz party, described Jobbik as \"evil\". Jewish organizations responded to Gyöngyösi speech by describing it as a reintroduction of Nazism in Hungarian parliament and by describing Jobbik as a Nazi party.\n\nIn 2014 Tibor Ágoston, the deputy chairman of Jobbik's Debrecen and Hajdú-Bihar County organization, referred to the Holocaust as the \"holoscam\". Tamás Horovitz, the chairman of the Debrecen Jewish Congregation and the mayor of Debrecen, Lajos Kósa, condemned Ágoston's remarks. Later Ágoston harshly criticized Gábor Vona for not supporting Előd Novák and cutting ties with the so-called \"radicals\" in the party.\n\nIn 2015 deputy leader Előd Novák posted to his social media account on Facebook a picture of himself and his family next to a separate image of Rikardo Racz, the first newborn in Hungary of the year who was born to a Romani family. In a comment on the pictures, he stated that the population of Hungarians would become a minority and suggested that the Romani population is the biggest problem facing Hungary. Novák's remarks were both condemned and supported. Novák would later respond to the issue by refusing to apologize and suggested that the family should apologize to him. Előd Novák was forced by the party's parliamentary group to resign from his position as an MP in 2016. Now, he is a vocal critic of Jobbik's new policies.\n\nOn 4 May 2013, Jobbik members protested against the World Jewish Congress in Budapest, claiming the protest was against \"a Jewish attempt to buy up Hungary\". Jobbik MP Enikő Hegedűs vociferously condemned both Israel and Jews at the rally as her husband, Lóránt Hegedűs Jr., stood nearby. An ordained minister in the Reformed Church in Hungary, Lóránt Hegedűs himself had served in the National Assembly as an MP of the far-right nationalist Hungarian Justice and Life Party from 1998 to 2002. He invited Holocaust denier David Irving to his Budapest church in 2007 as a \"special guest\", and has also been accused of anti-Semitism on several occasions for statements he has made about Jews at Jobbik events. At a 2011 rally, he claimed that Jews orchestrated World War II and controlled the international media, and a year prior had alleged that the Hungarian government was secretly cooperating with Mossad to facilitate an Israeli takeover of Hungary with the assistance of Hungarian Jews and mainstream churches. After his wife's statement regarding the World Jewish Congress, the Reformed Church launched an inquiry into the minister's conduct, with presiding bishop Gusztáv Bölcskei denouncing Hegedűs's activism for Jobbik as \"permanent provocation\" which was incompatible with scripture.\n\nPresident of Jobbik Gábor Vona later stated that he had criticized Zionism as a political idea and pointed out that he understood the Hungarian Jewish community had to survive such traumas during the 20th century that make dialogue very hard. At the same time he emphasized that he wanted to have harmonic relations with the Hungarian Jewish community.\n\nIn December 2016 Gábor Vona, besides his Christmas greetings to the nation's churches, as a gesture sent his greetings to his Jewish compatriots on the occasion of the Jewish holidays. The message of Vona raised controversy among Hungarian Jewish communities. Vona had already stated before that those, even party members, who had wanted to see Jobbik as a racist or anti-Semitic party had been wrong. However, Vona took responsibility for turning a blind eye in such situations earlier.\n\nGábor Vona earlier said that, Hungarians became slaves because the European Union had only wanted Hungary to enter the EU because of its cheap workforce. Vona also stated that \"the number of Hungarians continues to fall while the gypsy population grows ever larger. This was not racism but a real social and economic problem. Anyone who doesn’t understand this is not normal.\"\n\nIn a 2016 inverview, Vona announced that he believes the EU also has some advantages.\n\nIn his 2017 interview Márton Gyöngyösi, deputy leader of the party's parliamentary group, pointed out that Jobbik seeks for the constructive reform of the European Union. In addition, Gyöngyösi also said that in order to have a more harmonized EU, maybe some national competencies, such as labor conditions and wage regulations can be reconsidered.\n\nJobbik, as a conservative party, does not prefer policies that promote lifestyles that are different from the Christian-conservative model. The party maintains that the most important social unit is the traditional family. In April 2012, Jobbik tried to introduce a bill into the Hungarian parliament that would change the national constitution to allegedly \"protect public morals and the mental health of the young generations\" by banning the popularization of \"sexual deviancy\". The legislation was drafted by party spokesman Ádám Mirkóczki. This was to target \"homosexuality, sex changes, transvestitism, bisexuality and paedophile behaviour\". The proposed amendments would criminalise anyone who \"popularizes their sexual relations—deviancy—with another person of the same sex, or other disturbances of sexual behaviour, before the wider public\". The penalty would be three years in prison, or five years if 'popularizing' is done in front of minors. The draft legislation ultimately failed to pass.\n\nIn Hungary it is a very important and complex issue to deal with the interwar period and the legacy of the one-time Regent of Hungary, Miklós Horthy. Jobbik, like other right and centre-right parties in Hungary, supports a balanced view, appreciating the positive elements of the consolidation after the World War I and Trianon trauma. On 3 November 2013, Márton Gyöngyösi and other Jobbik members unveiled a bronze bust of Miklós Horthy, a nationalist admiral who served as Regent from 1920 to 1944, in front of the \"Church of Homecoming\" in downtown Budapest's Liberty Square, where Lóránt Hegedűs serves as pastor. The ceremony drew strong public and official condemnations over the legacy of Horthy, who led Hungary into World War II in 1941 on the side of the Axis powers (which the country had officially joined the previous year). Many Hungarians thus see Horthy as a source of deep national shame and Nazi collaborator, complicit in the murder of half a million Hungarian Jews in the Holocaust in Hungary. Others, however, revere him as a national hero, ostensibly for guiding the country to stability in its chaotic interwar period—at the ceremony, Gyöngyösi proclaimed Horthy \"the greatest Hungarian statesman of the 20th century\".\n\nSeveral thousand individuals—some of whom had pinned yellow Stars of David on their clothing came out to protest against the statue, and were met by a smaller crowd of far right protesters near the church who responded with anti-Semitic and racist slurs. Mayor Antal Rogán condemned Jobbik's move as a \"political provocation\" that would allow the \"western European left-wing press\" to unfairly characterise Hungary as being plagued by anti-Semitic extremists. Hegedűs, who had already hung a portrait of Horthy by his church's entrance well prior to the statue's installation, defended Horthy's legacy to journalists after the unveiling, calling it \"unjust and historically wrong\" to implicate the former leader in crimes against humanity because he was suspected not prosecuted at the Nuremberg trials. In light of the furore over the statue, church officials announced they would launch another official probe into Hegedűs's political activities.\n\nThe party faced its first electoral test with the coming of the 2009 European parliamentary elections. The election's results shocked their opponents: with the party sending three MEPs to Strasbourg; coming close to equal in number of votes with the governing Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP) while eliminating their liberal coalition partner Alliance of Free Democrats (SZDSZ), to become the nation's third largest party.\n\nIn London on 16 May 2008, the delegation of Jobbik's Committee of Foreign Affairs met Nick Griffin, chairman of the British National Party. They discussed cooperation between the two parties, and the elections for the European Parliament. Griffin spoke at the party rally in August 2008, while former vice-president Zoltán Füzessy is presently resident in Gravesend, Kent, England.\n\nThe Alliance of European National Movements (AENM) was formed in Budapest on 24 October 2009. The alliance's founding members were \"Jobbik\" (the Alliance was established during their sixth party congress), France's National Front, UK's British National Party Italy's Tricolour Flame, Sweden's National Democrats and Belgium's National Front. Since January 2014 Béla Kovács has been its president. Since then Jobbik officially quit AENM and cut all ties with the members of the alliance.\n\nOn 12 April 2015, Jobbik's Lajos Rig defeated the Fidesz candidate in a parliamentary by-election in Veszprém County. It was the second by-election lost by Fidesz after the national 2014 elections, leaving the ruling Fidesz-KDNP coalition two short of the parliamentary supermajority (\"kétharmad\").\n\nOn 14 March 2017 Jobbik started close cooperation with Bulgarian VMRO, Estonian Conservative People's Party and Croatian GO! as well as with trade unions, such as the Polish Solidarność 80, in the framework of the Wage Union European Citizens' Initiative.\n\nIn November 2013, the party leader Gábor Vona, expressed optimism about the election saying that the party planned \"no less than election victory in 2014\". He argued that Jobbik candidates had been faring well in local elections and that opinion surveys had showed that Jobbik was the most popular party among voters aged under 35. The party has prepared its election programme dubbed \"We'll say it, we'll solve it,\" which focuses on guaranteeing people a livelihood, safety and order. Vona said his party would initiate a referendum on protecting Hungarian land and on amending Hungary's European Union accession treaty.\n\nOn 26 January 2014, Vona held a rally in London where he sharply criticised the election law for preventing Hungarians living abroad from voting by mail at the parliamentary election.\n\nMayoral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1521048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1521048", "title": "List of proposed anti-gay book bans in the United States", "text": "List of proposed anti-gay book bans in the United States\n\nProposed bans of lesbian or gay-themed books in the United States.\n\nRepublican lawmaker Gerald Allen proposed Alabama House Bill 30 (HB30), which would have banned public school libraries from purchasing books by gay authors or with gay characters. The bill did not become law.\n\nA proposed ban in Arkansas would have barred any representation of gay and lesbian people in schools, libraries, and state-funded universities. It passed the state's lower house, but a tie vote in the state senate's Education Committee failed to bring it to the state senate floor.\n\nState Rep. Sally Kern, a Republican from Oklahoma City supported House Resolution 1039, which would have required Oklahoma libraries to \"confine homosexually themed books and other age-inappropriate material to areas exclusively for adult access and distribution.\" The bill also required that no public funds be used in \"the distribution of such materials to children.\" The bill passed in the house but not the senate.\n\nOrganized by year(s) banned.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3595976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3595976", "title": "Liverpool 29", "text": "Liverpool 29\n\nThe Liverpool 29 councillors were 29 left-wing councillors on the Liverpool City Council who were suspended from the Labour Party group on the council in 1990 for voting against rent rises, redundancies and implementation of the Poll Tax, in breach of the Labour Party whip. They formed their own \"Broad Left\" group, standing independently in local elections, and also putting up Lesley Mahmood as a candidate in the Liverpool Walton by-election, 1991.\n"}
{"id": "4399875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4399875", "title": "Louis IV, Elector Palatine", "text": "Louis IV, Elector Palatine\n\nLouis IV, Count Palatine of the Rhine (1 January 1424, Heidelberg – 13 August 1449, Worms) was an Elector Palatine of the Rhine from the House of Wittelsbach in 1436 - 1449.\n\nLouis IV was the son of Louis III, Elector Palatine and his second wife Matilda of Savoy. His mother was a fourth-generation descendant of Thomas III of Piedmont (1248 - 1282), the eldest son of Thomas II of Savoy.\n\nFrom the death of Louis III in 1436 until 1442, Louis IV ruled under guardianship of his uncle, Count Palatine Otto I of Mosbach. In 1444 he repelled the attacks of the Armagnacs as an Imperial captain.\n\nIn 1445 he married Margarete of Savoy, widow of king Louis III of Naples and daughter of Duke Amadeus VIII of Savoy. With her, he had his only son, Philipp (14 July 1448 – 28 February 1508). When he died in 1449, aged 25 years, in Worms, his brother Frederick inherited the Palatinate. Louis was buried in the Holy Spirit church of Heidelberg.\n\n"}
{"id": "2651759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2651759", "title": "Lulin", "text": "Lulin\n\nLulin (, \"green forest\") refers, as an umbrella term, to one of the two major agrarian rebellion movements against Wang Mang's short-lived Xin dynasty in the modern southern Henan and northern Hubei region who banded together to pool their strengths, and whose collective strength eventually led to the downfall of the Xin and a temporary reinstatement of the Han Dynasty with Liu Xuan (Gengshi Emperor) as the emperor. Many Lulin leaders became important members of Gengshi Emperor's government, but infighting and incompetence (both of the emperor and his officials) in governing the empire led to the fall of the regime after only two years, paving the way for the eventual rise of Liu Xiu (Emperor Guangwu) of the Eastern Han. The name Lulin came from the Lulin Mountains (in modern Yichang, Hubei), where the rebels had their stronghold for a while.\n\nIn 17 AD, the Jing Province (荊州, modern Hubei, Hunan, and southern Henan) was suffering a famine that was greatly exacerbated by the corruption and incompetence of Xin officials. The victims of the famine were reduced to consuming wild plants, and even those were in short supply, causing the suffering people to attack each other. Two men named Wang Kuang (王匡) and Wang Feng (王鳳), both from Xinshi (新市, in modern Jingmen, Hubei) became arbiters in some of these disputes, and they became the leaders of the enfamined people. They were later joined by many others, including Ma Wu (馬武), Wang Chang (王常), and Cheng Dan (成丹). Within a few months, 7,000 to 8,000 men gathered together under their commands. They had their base at Lulin Mountain, and their modus operandi was to attack and pillage villages far from the cities for food. This carried on for several years, during which they grew to tens of thousands in size.\n\nWang sent messengers issuing pardons in hopes of causing these rebels to disband. Once the messengers returned to the Xin capital Chang'an, some honestly reported that the rebels gathered because the harsh laws made it impossible for them to make a living and therefore they were forced to rebel. Some, in order to flatter Wang Mang, told him that these were simply evil resistors who needed to be killed, or that this was a temporary phenomenon. Wang listened to those who flattered him and generally relieved those who told the truth from their posts. Further, Wang made no further attempts to pacify the rebels, but instead decided to suppress them by force. In reality, the rebels were forced into rebellion to survive, and they were hoping that eventually, when the famine was over, they could return home to farm. As a result, they never dared to attack cities.\n\nIn 21, the governor of Jing Province mobilized 20,000 soldiers to attack the Lulin rebels, and a battle was pitched at Yundu (雲杜), a major victory for the rebels, who killed thousands of government soldiers and captured their food supply and arms. When the governor tried to retreat, his retreat route was temporarily cut off by Ma Wu, but Ma Wu allowed him to escape, not wanting to offend the government more than the rebels have done already. Instead, the Lulin rebels roved near the area, capturing many women, and then returning to the Lulin Mountain. By this point, they had 50,000 men.\n\nIn 22, the Lulin rebels suddenly suffered a serious plague of an unspecified nature, and at least 25,000 men died. This led to the breakup of the group into 3 \"force\".\nThese rebels at this time still generally lacked political ambition.\n\nThey were, however, soon spurred on by someone who was. Liu Yan, a descendant of a distant branch of the Han imperial clan, who lived in his ancestral territory of Chongling (舂陵, in modern Xiangyang, Hubei), had long been disgusted by Wang Mang's usurpation of the Han throne, and had long aspired to start a rebellion. He had a brother, Liu Xiu who, by contrast, was a careful and deliberate man, who was content to be a farmer. Around this time, there were prophecies being spread about that the Lius would return to power, and many men gathered about Liu Yan, requesting that he lead them. He agreed to do so. He then joined his forces with the Lulin's Xinshi and Pinglin Forces, and they captured a number of villages and pillaged them. In winter 22, the ambitious Liu Yan then decided to make an initial assault against Wancheng, the capital of Nanyang Commandery, and he initially failed, suffering such a major loss at the hand of Zhen Fu (甄阜), the governor of Nanyang. His sister Liu Yuan (劉元) and brother Liu Zhong (劉仲) both died in the battle. Encouraged, Zhen then led his forces in pursuit, intending to crush the all Liu-Lulin rebels once and for all.\n\nAlarmed, the Xinshi and Pinglin Forces began to consider withdrawing from the coalition and fleeing. At that time, however, the Xiajiang Force arrived nearby, and Liu was able to convince Wang Chang, who was respected by the other Xiajiang leaders, that Liu was a capable military leader. The Xiajiang Force therefore joined the coalition, and this led the Xinshi and Pinglin Forces to stay in the coalition.\n\nUnder Liu's command, the forces then made a surprise attack on Zhen's rear, seizing all of reserve food and arms of the government force. On the Chinese New Year 23, Liu crushed Zhen's forces and killed him and his assistant in battle. Encouraged by the victory, the Lulin leaders began to claim for themselves the title of generals, seize cities, create governmental organizations, and send out propaganda attacking Wang Mang.\n\nAt this time, there were more and more calls within the army to support a descendant of the Han imperial house to be emperor. The soldiers under Liu Yan's direct command and the Xiajiang leaders all supported Liu. However, the leaders of the Xinshi and Pinglin Forces were deeply jealous and suspicious of Liu's strict discipline, and wanted to instead support someone weak. They found a minor leader within the Pinglin Force—a descendant of the Han imperial house who was a third cousin of Liu Yan, named Liu Xuan, who was claiming the title of General Gengshi (更始將軍) at the time. They decided to support Liu Xuan to be emperor, and Liu Yan, after initial opposition, decided to agree as well, not wanting to start a fight. In spring 23, Liu Xuan was proclaimed emperor. Wang Kuang, Wang Feng, Zhu, Liu Yan, and Chen were the top officials in this new regime.\n\nWang Mang decided that he had to crush this rebellion once and for all. He sent his cousin Wang Yi (王邑) and his prime minister Wang Xun (王尋) with what he considered to be overwhelming force, some 430,000 men, intending to crush the newly constituted Han regime. The Han forces were at this point in two groups—one led by Wang Feng, Wang Chang, and Liu Xiu, which, in response to the arrival of the Xin forces, withdrew to the small town of Kunyang (昆陽, in modern Ye County, Henan) and one led by Liu Yan, which was sieging Wancheng. The rebels in Kunyang initially wanted to scatter, but Liu Xiu opposed it; rather, he advocated that they guard Kunyang securely, while he would gather all other available troops in surrounding areas and attack the Xin forces from the outside. After initially rejecting Liu Xiu's idea, the Kunyang rebels eventually agreed.\n\nLiu Xiu carried out his action, and when he returned to Kunyang, he began harassing the sieging Xin forces from the outside. Wang Yi and Wang Xun, annoyed, led 10,000 men to attack Liu Xiu and ordered the rest of their troops not to move from their siege locations. Once they engaged in battle, however, after minor losses, the other units were hesitant to assist them, and Liu Xiu killed Wang Xun in battle. Once that happened, the Han forces inside Kunyang burst out of the city and attacked the other Xin units, and the much larger Xin forces suffered a total collapse. The soldiers largely deserted and went home, unable to be gathered again. Wang Yi had to withdraw with only several thousand men back to Luoyang. Once the news about the Battle of Kunyang spread throughout the empire, the people rose everywhere else simultaneously, often killing the local government officials and claiming to be officials under the new Han regime. Within a month, nearly the entire empire slipped out of Xin control.\n\nAround the same time, Liu Yan was able to finally capture Wancheng. Gengshi Emperor entered the city and made it his temporary capital.\n\nHowever, at this time, infighting would begin. The very first major incident of infighting in Gengshi Emperor's regime would happen in this time, though. Gengshi Emperor, along with the officials who were formerly leaders of the Xinshi and Pinglin Forces, was fearful of Liu Yan's capabilities and keenly aware that many of Liu Yan's followers were angry that he was not made emperor. One, Liu Ji (劉稷), was particularly critical of Gengshi Emperor. Gengshi Emperor arrested Liu Ji and wanted to execute him, but Liu Yan tried to intercede. Gengshi Emperor took this opportunity to execute Liu Yan as well. However, ashamed of what he had done, he spared Liu Yan's brother Liu Xiu, and in fact made Liu Xiu the Marquess of Wuxin.\n\nGengshi Emperor then commissioned two armies, one led by Wang Kuang, targeting Luoyang, and the other led by Shentu Jian (申屠建) and Li Song (李松), targeting Chang'an directly. All the populace on the way gathered, welcomed, and joined the Han forces. Shentu and Li quickly reached the outskirts of Chang'an. In response, the young men within Chang'an also rose up and stormed Weiyang Palace, the main imperial palace. Wang died in the battle at the palace.\n\nAfter Wang Mang's death, Gengshi Emperor moved his capital from Wancheng to Luoyang. He then issued edicts to the entire empire, promising to allow Xin local officials who submitted to him to keep their posts. For a brief period, nearly the entire empire showed at least nominal submission—even including the powerful Chimei general Fan Chong (樊崇), who, indeed, went to stay in Luoyang under promises of titles and honors. However, this policy was applied inconsistently, and local governors soon became apprehensive about giving up their power. Fan, in particular, left the capital and returned to his troops.\n\nIn 24, Gengshi Emperor moved his capital again, back to the Western Han capital of Chang'an. The people of Chang'an had previously been offended by Gengshi Emperor's officials (the former Lulin leaders), who did not appreciate their rising up against Wang Mang but in fact considered them traitors. Once Gengshi Emperor was back in the capital, he issued a general pardon, which calmed the situation for a while. At this time, Chang'an was still largely intact, except for Weiyang Palace, destroyed by fire. However, Gengshi Emperor's timidity quickly caused problems. When the imperial officials were gathered for an official meeting, Gengshi Emperor, who had never seen such solemn occasions, panicked. Later, when generals submitted reports to him, he asked questions such as, \"How much did you pillage today?\" This type of behavior further reduced the confidence of the people in his administration.\n\nEventually, Gengshi Emperor's incompetence (along with the incompetence of the officials he installed—mostly Lulin leaders) in governing even the territories around Chang'an but also elsewhere, caused the loyalty of the people in the outlying regions to peel away. By the end of 24, Liu Xiu, who had been sent by Gengshi Emperor to pacify the region north of the Yellow River, was de facto independent, while the Chimei were approaching and readying for an attack on Chang'an.\n\nIn summer 25, Liu Xiu finally made a formal break with Gengshi Emperor, after his generals and Gengshi Emperor's generals fought over control of the Henei and Luoyang regions. He declared himself emperor (establishing the regime known later as the Eastern Han Dynasty), and soon his general Deng Yu (鄧禹) also captured the modern Shanxi, further reducing Gengshi Emperor's strength.\n\nFeeling trapped, a number of Gengshi Emperor's generals conspired to kidnap him and flee back to their home region of Nanyang. These conspirators included Zhang Ang, Liao Zhan, Hu Yin (胡殷), Shentu Jian (申屠建), and the warlord Wei Xiao (隗囂). They were discovered, and most were executed, but Zhang occupied most of Chang'an, forcing Gengshi Emperor to flee, just as Chimei forces were approaching. Gengshi Emperor then made the further mistake of suspecting, without evidence, Wang Kuang, Chen Mu, and Cheng Dan of conspiring with Zhang; he executed Chen and Cheng by trickery, and Wang, in response, joined Zhang.\n\nGenerals still loyal to Gengshi Emperor was eventually able to evict Zhang from the capital, but by that time the situation was desperate. Zhang and his allies surrendered to Chimei and, working with them, attacked again Chang'an, which fell quickly. Gengshi Emperor fled only followed by several loyal followers. In winter 25, he surrendered to the Chimei, and was eventually killed. Most Lulin leaders eventually became lost in obscurity, but some who were initially friendly with Liu Xiu joined him and became officials in his government. They were largely not given important posts, however, in his new dynasty.\n"}
{"id": "2453067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2453067", "title": "Lê Thị Hồng Liên", "text": "Lê Thị Hồng Liên\n\nLê Thị Hồng Liên is a Christian teacher from Vietnam. She taught for \nthe Mennonite Church in Vietnam. She was arrested in June 2004 along with other members of her church.\n\nShe was released from Bien Hoa Mental Hospital on April 28, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "54682085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54682085", "title": "Masaryk Democratic Academy", "text": "Masaryk Democratic Academy\n\nMasaryk Democratic Academy (, MDA) is a think-tank affiliated with the Czech Social Democratic Party (ČSSD). It was founded in 1896 by Josef Steiner and Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk as Masaryk Workers' Academy (, \"MDA\"). Masaryk Workers' Academy changed its name in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "40389521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40389521", "title": "McCutcheon v. FEC", "text": "McCutcheon v. FEC\n\nMcCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission, 572 U.S. 185 (2014), is a landmark campaign finance decision of the United States Supreme Court. The decision held that Section 441 of the Federal Election Campaign Act (FECA), which imposed a limit on contributions an individual can make over a two-year period to national party and federal candidate committees, is unconstitutional.\n\nThe case was argued before the Supreme Court on October 8, 2013, being brought on appeal after the United States District Court for the District of Columbia dismissed the challenge. It was decided on April 2, 2014, by a 5–4 vote, reversing the decision below and remanding. Justices Roberts, Scalia, Kennedy, and Alito invalidated \"aggregate contribution limits\" (amounts one can contribute over the two-year period) as violating the First Amendment. Justice Thomas provided the necessary fifth vote, but concurred separately in the judgment while arguing that all contribution limits are unconstitutional.\n\nThe Federal Election Campaign Act (FECA) was first passed in 1971. Amendments to FECA in 1974, after the Watergate Scandal, limited the total amount of direct contributions an individual could make to national political parties and federal candidates in a given year. These \"aggregate contribution limits\" were subsequently upheld in \"Buckley v. Valeo\" (1976). The Court's decision in \"Valeo\" recognized that independent contributions were protected speech, but also held that the aggregate contribution limits were constitutional because the government had a compelling interest in preventing \"corruption\" and the \"appearance of corruption\".\n\nIn 2002, the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act (BCRA) was passed. The BCRA revised the aggregate limits, adjusted them to future (but not past) inflation, and changed the individual limitations from annual to biennial; The aggregate contribution ceiling on individuals during the 2011-2012 election cycle stood at $46,200 for federal candidates and $70,800 for national parties, or a $117,000 aggregate limit.\n\nPlaintiff Shaun McCutcheon is a businessman and electrical engineer from suburban Birmingham, Alabama, who is a campaign contributor and self described activist of the Republican Party. The founder and CEO of Coalmont Electrical Development Corporation, McCutcheon began donating to Republican candidates in the late 1990s, and would ultimately join the Jefferson County Republican Party Executive Committee. At a 2011 Young Conservatives Coalition event, McCutcheon met attorney and campaign finance expert Dan Backer, who would play a major role in encouraging McCutcheon to file suit against the FEC. As of September 2012, McCutcheon had given $33,088 to sixteen federal candidates and over $25,000 in non-candidate contributions during the 2011-2012 cycle. McCutcheon intended on donating to an additional twelve federal candidates, bringing his contribution total over the federal aggregate limit on federal candidates. McCutcheon filed suit against the Federal Election Commission (FEC), where he was joined in his lawsuit by the Republican National Committee.\n\nOn June 22, 2012, the plaintiffs filed a Verified Complaint before the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, asking the court to revisit the precedent set in the Buckley case and calling the limits on contributions to federally elected candidates a \"burden on speech and association.\" The case was heard by a three-judge court, with judges James E. Boasberg, Janice Rogers Brown and Robert L. Wilkins designated to hear the case.\n\nOn September 28, 2012, the U.S. District Court granted the FEC's motion to dismiss; upholding the aggregate limits. The court held that:\n\nOn October 9, 2012, the plaintiffs filed an appeal to the Supreme Court; the Court granted certiorari on February 19, 2013.\n\nThe court heard oral arguments on October 8, 2013. Erin E. Murphy, counsel at Bancroft PLLC, argued for the appellants. Attorney Michael T. Morley was counsel of record for Appellant McCutcheon and was primarily responsible for preparing his principal brief. United States Solicitor General Donald Verrilli Jr. argued for the appellees: the Federal Election Commission and the Obama administration.\n\nOn April 2, 2014, the court ruled, 5–4, for the appellants. While the ruling overturned limits on aggregate federal campaign contributions, it did not affect limits on how much individuals can give to an individual politician's campaign, which remain at $2,700 per election. Chief Justice John Roberts wrote in the legal opinion, \"The government may no more restrict how many candidates or causes a donor may support than it may tell a newspaper how many candidates it may endorse.\"\n\nJustice Thomas concurred in the judgment but wished to go further and abolish all campaign contribution limits: \"limiting the amount of money a person may give to a candidate \"does\" impose a direct restraint on his political communication.\" He rejected the rationale of \"Buckley v. Valeo\" that \"[a] contribution serves as a general expression of support for the candidate and his views, but does not communicate the underlying basis for the support\" since \"this Court has never required a speaker to explain the reasons for his position in order to obtain full First Amendment protection.\"\n\nJustices Breyer, Ginsburg, Sotomayor and Kagan dissented, arguing that the decision \"creates a loophole that will allow a single individual to contribute millions of dollars to a political party or to a candidate’s campaign. Taken together with \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Comm’n\", 558 U. S. 310 (2010), today’s decision eviscerates our Nation’s campaign finance laws, leaving a remnant incapable of dealing with the grave problems of democratic legitimacy that those laws were intended to resolve.\"\n\nIn response to the decision, a coalition of environmental, voting rights, labor, and government reform groups rallied outside of the Supreme Court. Environmentalists from Greenpeace and the Sierra Club protested what Phil Radford of Greenpeace called a \"legalized system of corruption through money in politics\" that had resulted in few major environmental laws passing in the U.S. since 1980.\n\nWriting for \"The Nation\", Ari Berman wrote, \"The Court’s conservative majority believes that the First Amendment gives wealthy donors and powerful corporations the carte blanche right to buy an election but that the Fifteenth Amendment does not give Americans the right to vote free of racial discrimination.\"\n\nCountering Berman's quote, Robert J. Samuelson pointed out that \"the rich\" is not one single block but that it has many different factions. He added that money does not \"guarantee victory. After a certain point, more money hits the law of diminishing returns. It can be and is misspent.\" Samuelson also said that there are poor politicians who cannot communicate and so need money \"to hire campaign staff, build a website, buy political spots and the like\" to \"affect how people behave.\"\n\nThe Center for Competitive Politics, a leading group advocating for deregulation of campaign finance, heralded the decision in a statement: \"the Court’s conclusion was common sense: the law limited an individual to contributing the legal maximum to just 18 candidates. If the first 18 aren't 'corrupted' by the contribution, why is candidate 19? What's remarkable is that four justices of the Supreme Court continue to believe that such overt limitations on political speech are constitutional. Moreover, to reach that conclusion the dissenters relied on a series of preposterous hypotheticals bearing no resemblance to reality.\"\n\nIn \"The New Yorker\", Jeffrey Toobin wrote that \"the language of Chief Justice John Roberts's opinion suggests that the Court remains committed to the project announced most prominently in the Citizens United case, four years ago: the deregulation of American political campaigns.\"\n\nOnly 30 hours after the \"McCutcheon\" case came down, Professors Ronald K. L. Collins and David Skover published an 80,000-word narrative account of the history of the case, which included an analysis of the Court's opinion. The e-book is titled \"When Money Speaks: The McCutcheon Decision, Campaign Finance Laws & the First Amendment\" (Top Five Books, 2014).\n\nFollowing the decision, SCOTUSblog published a symposium on the case with a foreword by Collins and Skover as well as commentaries by Floyd Abrams, Jan Baran, Rick Hasen, Burt Neuborne, Ilya Shapiro, Paul M. Smith, and Fred Wertheimer (April 3–4, 2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "346563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346563", "title": "Multimethodology", "text": "Multimethodology\n\nMultimethodology or multimethod research includes the use of more than one method of data collection or research in a research study or set of related studies. Mixed methods research is more specific in that it includes the mixing of qualitative and quantitative data, methods, methodologies, and/or paradigms in a research study or set of related studies. One could argue that mixed methods research is a special case of multimethod research. Another applicable, but less often used label, for multi or mixed research is methodological pluralism. All of these approaches to professional and academic research emphasize that monomethod research can be improved through the use of multiple data, methods, Research,methodologies, perspectives, standpoints, and paradigms. \nThe term 'multimethodology' was used starting in the 1980s and in the 1989 book Multimethod Research: A Synthesis of Styles by John Brewer and Albert Hunter (Sage Publications). During the 1990s and currently, the term 'mixed methods research' has become more popular for this research movement in the behavioral, social, business, and health sciences. This pluralistic research approach has been gaining in popularity since the 1980s.\n\nThere are three broad classes of research studies that are currently being labeled “mixed methods research” (Johnson, Onwuegbuzie, & Turner, 2007)\n\nOne major similarity between mixed methodologies and qualitative and quantitative taken separately is that researchers need to maintain focus on the original purpose behind their methodological choices. A major difference between the two however, is the way some authors differentiate the two, proposing that there is logic inherent in one that is different from the other. Creswell (2009) points out that in a quantitative study the researcher starts with a problem statement, moving on to the hypothesis and null hypothesis, through the instrumentation into a discussion of data collection, population, and data analysis. Creswell proposes that for a qualitative study the flow of logic begins with the purpose for the study, moves through the research questions discussed as data collected from a smaller group and then voices how they will be analysed.\n\nA research \"strategy\" is a procedure for achieving a particular intermediary research objective — such as sampling, data collection, or data analysis. We may therefore speak of sampling strategies or data analysis strategies. The use of multiple strategies to enhance construct validity (a form of methodological triangulation) is now routinely advocated by methodologists. In short, mixing or integrating research strategies (qualitative and/or quantitative) in any and all research undertaking is now considered a common feature of good research.\n\nA research \"approach\" refers to an integrated set of research principles and general procedural guidelines. Approaches are broad, holistic (but general) methodological guides or roadmaps that are associated with particular research motives or analytic interests. Two examples of analytic interests are population frequency distributions and prediction. Examples of research approaches include experiments, surveys, correlational studies, ethnographic research, and phenomenological inquiry. Each approach is ideally suited to addressing a particular analytic interest. For instance, experiments are ideally suited to addressing nomothetic explanations or probable cause; surveys — population frequency descriptions, correlations studies — predictions; ethnography — descriptions and interpretations of cultural processes; and phenomenology — descriptions of the essence of phenomena or lived experiences.\n\nIn a \"single approach design\" (\"SAD\")(also called a \"monomethod design\") only one analytic interest is pursued. In a \"mixed or multiple approach design (MAD)\" two or more analytic interests are pursued. NOTE: a multiple approach design may include entirely “quantitative” approaches such as combining a survey and an experiment; or entirely “qualitative” approaches such as combining an ethnographic and a phenomenological inquiry, and a mixed approach design includes a mixture of the above (e.g., a mixture of quantitative and qualitative data, methods, methodologies, and/or paradigms).\n\nA word of caution about the term “multimethodology”. It has become quite common place to use the terms \"method\" and \"methodology\" as synonyms (as is the case with the above entry). However, there are convincing philosophical reasons for distinguishing the two. \"Method\" connotes a way of doing something — a procedure (such as a method of data collection). \"Methodology\" connotes a discourse about methods — i.e., a discourse about the adequacy and appropriateness of particular combination of research principles and procedures. The terms methodology and biology share a common suffix \"\"logy\".\" Just as bio-\"logy\" is a discourse about life — all kinds of life; so too, methodo-\"logy\" is a discourse about methods — all kinds of methods. It seems unproductive, therefore, to speak of multi-biologies or of multi-methodologies. It is very productive, however, to speak of multiple biological perspectives or of multiple methodological perspectives.\n\nThe case for multimethodology or mixed methods research as a strategy for intervention and/or research is based on four observations:\n\nThere are also some hazards to multimethodological or mixed methods research approaches. Some of these problems include:\n\nA few qualitative research analysis software applications support some degree of quantitative integration, and the following software or web applications focus on mixed methods research:\n\nMultimethodology and mixed methods research are desirable and feasible because they provide a more complete view, and because the requirement during the different phases of an intervention (or research project) make very specific demands on a general methodology. While it is demanding, it is more effective to choose the right tool for the job at hand.\n\nIt can be used when you want to build from one phase of research to another. You may first want to explore the data qualitatively to identify help in the development an instrument or to identify concepts/variables to test in a later quantitative study or phase of a single study. You engage in a mixed methods study when you want to construct a quantitatively-driven design, a qualitatively-driven design, or an interactive/equal-status design. Each of these come with advantages and disadvantages. For more information on designing multiple and mixed methods research studies see the following design typologies and other (anti-typology): Brewer & Hunter (2006); Creamer (2017); Creswell & Plano Clark (2011); Greene (2007); Guest (2013); Johnson & Christensen (2014); Morgan (2014); Morse & Niehaus (2009); Muskat et al. (2012); and Teddlie & Tashakkori (2009).\n\nMultimethodology is criticized by the adherents of incompatibility thesis - particularly post-structuralist and post-modernists. Its critics argue that mixed methods research is inherently wrong because quantitative and qualitative approach represent different and inherently incompatible research paradigms. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8629875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8629875", "title": "National Farmers Union (Canada)", "text": "National Farmers Union (Canada)\n\nThe National Farmers Union of (NFU) is an organization set up by Canadian farmers. It is headquartered in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada. It is descended from the United Farmers of Canada which was a loose federation of militant farmers' organizations. It was created as the Interprovincial Farm Union Council (IFUC) in 1945 to co-ordinate activities between provincial bodies, particularly the Alberta Farmers Union and the United Farmers of Canada (Saskatchewan Section) who were planning a farmers' strike if grievances on farm prices and marketing problems were not solved. In 1960 it was renamed the National Farmers Union and in 1969 it was refounded with a national convention as a direct membership organization.\n\nThe NFU decides on and publicizes its positions on matters concerning agricultural policy through news briefs and some longer policy statements. Recent policy statements include the \"Policy on Genetically Modified (GM) Foods\" and the \"Policy on Sustainable Agriculture\".\n\nThe mandate of the National Farmers Union is:\n\n\nThe NFU offers an annual award to young writers for an essay on an assigned farm-related topic, the \"Paul Beingessner Award\".\n\nThe National Farmers Union and other family farm/peasant, indigenous and rural workers organizations work within the global movement, La Via Campesina, to resist the global trade agreements and the World Trade Organization, stop the destruction of communities, cultures and environments, and build an alternative: food sovereignty.\n\n"}
{"id": "52259546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52259546", "title": "Operation Legacy", "text": "Operation Legacy\n\nOperation Legacy was a British Colonial Office (later Foreign Office) program to destroy or hide files, to prevent them being inherited by its ex-colonies. It ran from the 1950s until the 1970s, when the decolonisation of the British Empire was at its height.\n\nAs decolonisation progressed, British officials were keen to avoid a repeat of the embarrassment that had been caused by the overt burning of documents that took place in Delhi in 1947, which had been covered by local Indian news sources. On May 3, 1961, Iain Macleod from the UK Colonial Office, wrote a telegram to all British embassies to advise them on the best way to retrieve and dispose of sensitive documents.\n\nAll secret documents in the colonial administrations were vetted by MI5 or Special Branch agents to ensure those that might embarrass the British government or show racial or religious bias, were destroyed or sent to the United Kingdom. Precise instructions were given for methods to be used for destruction, including burning and dumping at sea. Some of the files detailed torture methods used against opponents of the colonial administrations, \"e.g.\", during the Mau Mau Uprising.\n\nAcademic study of the end of the British Empire has been assisted in recent years by the declassification of the \"migrated archives\" in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 141 series. After the UK government admitted in 2011 that it had secret documents related to the Mau Mau case, it began to declassify documents and by November 2013 some 20,000 files had been declassified. These documents can now be accessed at the National Archives in Kew, London.\n"}
{"id": "136535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=136535", "title": "Primogeniture", "text": "Primogeniture\n\nPrimogeniture () is the right, by law or custom, of the paternally acknowledged, firstborn son to inherit his parent's entire or main estate, in preference to daughters, elder illegitimate sons, younger sons and collateral relatives; in some cases the estate may instead be the inheritance of the firstborn child or occasionally the firstborn daughter. The descendant (often the son) of a deceased elder sibling (typically elder brother) inherits before a living younger sibling by right of substitution for the deceased heir. In the absence of any children, brothers succeed, individually, to the inheritance by seniority of age (subject to substitution). Among siblings, sons usually inherit before daughters. In the absence of male descendants in the male-line, there are variations of primogeniture which allocate the inheritance to a daughter or a brother or, in the absence of either, to another collateral relative, in a specified order (e.g. male-preference primogeniture, Salic primogeniture, semi-Salic primogeniture).\n\nThe principle has applied in history to inheritance of real property (land) as well as inherited titles and offices, most notably monarchies, continuing until modified or abolished.\n\nVariations on primogeniture modify the right of the first-born son to the entirety of a family's inheritance (see appanage) or, in the West since World War II, eliminate the preference for males over females (absolute primogeniture). Most monarchies in Western Europe have eliminated male preference in succession: Belgium, Denmark, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom.\n\nSome monarchies have succession rules contrasting greatly with primogeniture. Currently, succession to the Saudi Arabian throne uses a form of lateral agnatic seniority, as did the Kievan Rus' (see Rota system), the early Kingdom of Scotland (see Tanistry), the Mongol Empire (see lateral succession) or the later Ottoman Empire (see succession practices).\n\n\"Absolute\", \"equal\", or \"lineal primogeniture\" is a form of primogeniture in which sex is irrelevant for inheritance. No modern monarchy before 1980 practiced this form of primogeniture.\n\nHowever, according to Poumarede (1972), the Basques of the Kingdom of Navarre transmitted title and property to the firstborn regardless of sex. The higher nobility and free families of the early and high middle ages followed this custom. The Navarrese monarchy, however, was inherited by dynasties from outside of Navarre, which followed different successional laws, usually male preference primogeniture. Eventually only the Basque lower nobility and free families of the Basque country and other regions continued to follow this custom, which persisted as late as the 19th century.\n\nAn ancient and alternative way in which women succeeded to power, especially without displacing the direct male line descendants of the first monarchs, is the historical consortium or coregency between husband, and wife or other relatives. The most notable of these are the Egyptian cases of Hatshepsut and Thutmose III, and the monarchs of the Ptolemaic Dynasty.\n\nIn 1980, Sweden amended its constitution to adopt royal succession by absolute primogeniture, displacing King Carl XVI Gustaf's infant son, Prince Carl Philip, in favor of his elder daughter, Princess Victoria, in the process. Several monarchies have since followed suit: the Netherlands in 1983, Norway in 1990, Belgium in 1991, Denmark in 2009, Luxembourg in 2011, and the United Kingdom and the other Commonwealth realms in 2015.\n\nMonaco, the Netherlands, and Norway also deviated from traditional primogeniture in the late 20th or early 21st century by restricting succession to the crown to relatives within a specified degree of kinship to the most recent monarch.\n\nRecently, other monarchies have changed or considered changing to absolute primogeniture:\n\n\nUnder agnatic primogeniture, or patrilineal primogeniture, the degree of kinship (of males and females) is determined by tracing shared descent from the nearest common ancestor through male ancestors. Those who share agnatic kinship are termed \"agnates\"; those who share descent from a common ancestor through males and females or through females only are \"cognates\".\n\nThere were different types of succession based on agnatic primogeniture, all sharing the principle that inheritance is according to seniority of birth among siblings (compare to ultimogeniture) and seniority of lineage among the agnatic kin, firstly, among the sons of a monarch or head of family, with sons and their male-line issue inheriting before brothers and their issue. Females and female-line descendants are excluded from succession.\n\nMale-preference primogeniture accords succession to the throne to a female member of a dynasty if she has no living brothers and no deceased brothers who left surviving legitimate descendants. A dynast's sons and their lines of descent all come before that dynast's daughters and their lines. Older sons and their lines come before younger sons and their lines. Older daughters and their lines come before younger daughters and their lines.\n\nIt was practiced in the succession to the once-separate thrones of England and Scotland (until their union under James VI and I) and then the United Kingdom until 2015, when the Succession to the Crown Act 2013 changed it to absolute primogeniture. The rule change also applies to all Commonwealth realms that have the British monarch as their head of state.\n\nMale-preference primogeniture is currently practiced in succession to the thrones of Monaco and Spain (before 1700 and since 1830).\n\nWith respect to hereditary titles, it is usually the rule for Scotland and baronies by writ in the United Kingdom, but baronies by writ go into abeyance when the last male titleholder dies leaving more than one surviving sister or more than one descendant in the legitimate female line of the original titleholder.\n\nAn agnatic seniority primogeniture system that excludes any female from inheritance of a monarch's principal possessions is generally known in western Europe as an application of the \"Salic law\" (see \"Terra salica\"). This rule of succession developed in the course of a series of successions in France in the later Middle Ages. In 1316, Joan, the only surviving child of Louis X of France was debarred from the throne in favor of her uncle, Philip, Count of Poitiers. After this it was declared that women could not inherit the French throne. Then in 1328, after the death of Charles IV, Philip, Count of Valois (Charles IV's paternal cousin) became king, notwithstanding the claims of Edward III of England. By proximity of blood, Edward was the closest relative to the dead king, as he was the son of the king's sister Isabella. The assemblies of the French barons and prelates and the University of Paris resolved that males who derive their right to inheritance through their mother should be excluded. This ruling became a key point of contention in the subsequent Hundred Years War. Over the following century, French jurists adopted a clause from the 6th century \"Pactus Legis Salicae\", which asserted that no female or her descendants could inherit the French throne, as a governing rule for the French succession.\n\nBy the start of the 19th century, the royal houses of Bourbon (France, Spain, Sicily and Parma) and Savoy (Kingdom of Sardinia), had adopted this system of exclusively male hereditary succession. Napoleon Bonaparte's conquests subsequently nudged the adoption of the law in Sweden (beginning in 1810) and in princely states of the Confederation of the Rhine. Other states adopted strict agnatic primogeniture as well, including Denmark (beginning in 1853) and the new kingdoms of Albania, Belgium, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Romania, and Serbia. During this era, Spain (in the Carlist conflicts) fought a civil war which pitted the Salic and female-line heirs of the ruling dynasty against one another for possession of the crown.\n\nA variation of Salic primogeniture allowed the sons of women to inherit, but not women themselves, an example being the Francoist succession to the throne of Spain that was applied in 1947–1978.\n\nMost British and French titles of nobility descend to the senior male by primogeniture, to the exclusion of females, and agnatic cadets may bear courtesy or subsidiary titles. Notable exceptions in England include the Duchy of Lancaster, which is merged with the British Crown (which has included women in inheritance since the 16th century), and the Dukedom of Marlborough, which has included women in inheritance since its establishment in 1702.\n\nAnother variation on agnatic primogeniture is the so-called semi-Salic law, or \"agnatic-cognatic primogeniture\", which allows women to succeed only at the extinction of all the male descendants in the male line. Such were the cases of Bourbon Spain until 1833 and the dominions of Austria-Hungary, as well as most realms within the former Holy Roman Empire, i.e. most German monarchies. This was also the law of Russia under the Pauline Laws of 1797 and of Luxembourg until equal primogeniture was introduced on 20 June 2011.\n\nThere are various versions of semi-Salic law also, although in all forms women do not succeed by application of the same kind of primogeniture as was in effect among males in the family. Rather, the female who is nearest in kinship to the last male monarch of the family inherits, even if another female agnate of the dynasty is senior by primogeniture. Among sisters (and the lines of descendants issuing from them), the elder are preferred to the younger. In reckoning consanguinity or proximity of blood the dynasty's house law defines who among female relatives is \"nearest\" to the last male.\n\nUnder \"uterine primogeniture\", succession to the throne or other property is passed to the male most closely related to the previous titleholder through female kinship. A male may also inherit a right of succession through a female ancestor or spouse, to the exclusion of any female relative who might be older or of nearer proximity of blood (see above for Spain's mid-twentieth century dynastic succession law). In such cases, inheritance depends on uterine kinship, so a king would typically be succeeded by his sister's son. This particular system of inheritance applied to the thrones of the Picts of Northern Britain and the Etruscans of Italy. Some kingdoms and ethnic groups in Africa follow the same practice. This usage may stem in part from the certainty of the relationship to the previous king and kings: sons and daughters of a sister are his relations (mater semper certa est), even if they do not have the same father.\n\n\"Matrilineal primogeniture\", or \"female-preference uterine primogeniture\", is a form of succession practised in some societies in which the eldest female child inherits the throne, to the total exclusion of males. The order of succession to the position of the Rain Queen is an example in an African culture of matrilineal primogeniture: not only is dynastic descent reckoned through the female line, but only females are eligible to inherit.\n\nIn Christian Europe, the Roman Catholic Church originally had a monopoly on the authority to sanction marriage. It forbade polygamy and taught that divorce was an impossibility \"per se\", as it still does. Consequently, in Europe, it was very difficult to ensure succession solely by direct male descendants or even direct male or female progeny. In Islamic and Asian cultures, religious officials and customs either sanctioned polygyny, use of consorts, or both, or they had no authority of marriage; monarchs could consequently ensure sufficient numbers of male offspring to assure succession. In such cultures, female heads of state were rare.\n\nThe earliest account of primogeniture to be known widely in modern times is that of Isaac's sons Esau, who was born first, and Jacob, who was born second. Esau was entitled to the \"birthright\" (\"bekhorah\" בְּכוֹרָה), but he sold the right to Jacob for a mess of pottage, i. e. a small amount of food. Although the veracity of this account is not corroborated by other sources, its widespread acceptance demonstrates that primogeniture was sufficiently common in the Middle East for the account to seem plausible to the people living there prior to the Roman Empire.\n\nDuring the Roman Empire, Roman law governed much of Europe, and the laws pertaining to inheritance made no distinction between the oldest or youngest, male or female, if the decedent died intestate. Although admission to the two highest \"ordines\" (orders), i. e. the senators and equestrians, potentially brought lifelong privileges that the next generation could inherit, the principle of inherited rank in general was little used. Rather, Roman aristocracy was based on competition, and a Roman family could not maintain its position in the \"ordines\" merely by hereditary succession or title to land. Although the eldest son typically carried his father's name in some form, he was expected to construct his own career based on competence as an administrator or general and on remaining in favor with the emperor and his council at court. Other than meeting requirements for personal wealth, the qualifications for belonging to the senatorial or equestrian orders varied from generation to generation, and in the later Empire, the \"dignitas\" (\"esteem\") that attended on senatorial or equestrian rank was refined further with additional titles, such as \"vir illustris,\" that were not inherited.\n\nMost Roman emperors indicated their choice of successor, usually a close family member or adopted heir, and the presumption that the eldest or even a natural son would inherit was not enshrined. The death of an emperor led to a critical period of uncertainty and crisis. In theory, the Senate was entitled to choose the new emperor, but did so mindful of acclamation by the army or the Praetorian Guard. Thus, neither an emperor nor his heir had an inherent \"right\" to rule, and did so through military power and the Senate's symbolic consent.\n\nThe law of primogeniture in Europe has its origins in Medieval Europe; which due to the feudal system necessitated that the estates of land-owning feudal lords be kept as large and united as possible to maintain social stability as well as the wealth, power and social standing of their families.\n\nAdam Smith, in his book \"An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations\", explains the origin of primogeniture in Europe in the following way:\n\nA case of agnatic primogeniture is exemplified in the French royal \"milieu\", where the Salic Law (attributed to the Salian Franks) forbade any inheritance of a crown through the female line. This rule was adopted to solve the dispute over the legitimate successor of John I of France, the short-lived son of deceased Louis X of France in favour of Philip V of France (brother of Louis and uncle of John) over Joan II of Navarre (daughter of Louis and sister of John), the ruling that \"\"Women do not succeed the kingdom of France\". In 1328, it was further elaborated, with the statement that \"Women cannot transmit a right which they do not possess\"\", to solve the dispute over the legitimate successor of Philip V's brother Charles IV of France (Edward III of England or Philip VI of France), though the former would have a stronger claim should proximity of blood be considered, which had never been the case in France since 987, instead as well of both agnatic-cognatic primogeniture or male-preference cognatic primogeniture and the resulting heirs. This dispute was among the factors behind the Hundred Years' War, which broke out in 1337.\n\nConflict between the Salic law and the male-preferred system was also the genesis of Carlism in Spain.\n\nThe crowns of Hanover and Great Britain, which had been in personal union since 1714, were separated in 1837 upon the death of King William IV: his niece Victoria inherited the British crown under male-preference primogeniture but, because of semi-Salic law, was not the heir to that of Hanover, which passed to William's eldest surviving brother, Ernest Augustus, King of Hanover.\n\nThe divergence in the late 19th century of the thrones of Luxembourg and the Netherlands, both ruled by semi-Salic law, resulted from the fact that the Luxembourg line of succession went back more generations than did the Dutch line. The Luxembourg succession was set by the Nassau House Treaty of 1783, which declared each prince of the House of Nassau to be a potential heir to the territories of every branch of the dynasty. Insofar as the succession is concerned, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is the successor state to the Principality of (Orange-)Nassau-Dietz, which was given in exchange to William VI of Nassau, Prince of Orange in 1813. Succession to the new Kingdom of the Netherlands was recognised by the Congress of Vienna in 1815 as belonging exclusively to the descendants of Prince William VI, who became King William I of the Netherlands. In 1890, William I's agnatic line of male descendants died out, leaving the Netherlands to his female descendant Queen Wilhelmina, whereas Luxembourg still had an agnatic heir from a distant branch of the dynasty left to succeed; ex-Duke Adolf of Nassau, who became reigning Grand Duke, thus ending the personal union of the Netherlands and Luxembourg.\n\nSince the Middle Ages, the semi-Salic principle was prevalent for the inheritance of feudal land in the Holy Roman Empire: inheritance was allowed through females when the male line expired. Females themselves did not inherit, but their male issue could. For example, a grandfather without sons was succeeded by his grandson, the son of his daughter, although the daughter still lived. Likewise, an uncle without sons of his own was succeeded by his nephew, a son of his sister, even if the sister still lived.\n\nCommon in feudal Europe outside of Germany was land inheritance based on a form of primogeniture: A lord was succeeded by his eldest son but, failing sons, either by daughters or sons of daughters. In most medieval Western European feudal fiefs, females (such as daughters and sisters) were allowed to succeed, brothers failing. But usually the husband of the heiress became the real lord, assuming his wife's title (\"jure uxoris\").\n\nIn more complex medieval cases, the sometimes conflicting principles of proximity of blood and primogeniture competed, and outcomes were at times unpredictable. Proximity meant that an heir closer in degree of kinship to the lord in question was given precedence although that heir was not necessarily the heir by primogeniture.\n\nHowever, primogeniture increasingly won legal cases over proximity in later centuries.\n\nLater, when lands were strictly divided among noble families and tended to remain fixed, \"agnatic primogeniture\" (practically the same as Salic Law) became usual: succession going to the eldest son of the monarch; if the monarch had no sons, the throne would pass to the nearest male relative in the male line.\n\nSome countries, however, accepted female rulers early on, so that if the monarch had no sons, the throne would pass to the eldest daughter. For example, in 1632 Christina, Queen of Sweden succeeded to the throne after the death of her father, King Gustav II Adolf.\n\nIn England, primogeniture was mandatory for inheritance of land. Until the Statute of Wills was passed in 1540, a will could control only the inheritance of personal property. Real estate (land) passed to the eldest male descendant by operation of law. The statute added a provision that a landowner could \"devise\" land by the use of a new device called a \"testament\". The rule of primogeniture in England was not changed until the Administration of Estates Act in 1925.\nIn law, primogeniture is the rule of inheritance whereby land descends to the oldest son. Under the feudal system of medieval Europe, primogeniture generally governed the inheritance of land held in military tenure (see knight). The effect of this rule was to keep the father's land for the support of the son who rendered the required military service. When feudalism declined and the payment of a tax was substituted for military service, the need for primogeniture disappeared. In England, consequently, there was enacted the Statute of Wills (1540), which permitted the oldest son to be entirely cut off from inheriting, and in the 17th century military tenure was abolished; primogeniture is, nevertheless, still customary in England.\n\nIn the United States, the colonies followed English primogeniture laws. Carole Shammas argues that issues of primogeniture, dower, curtesy, strict family settlements in equity, collateral kin, and unilateral division of real and personal property were fully developed in the colonial courts. The Americans differed little from English policies regarding the status of widow, widower, and lineal descendants. The primogeniture laws were repealed at the time of the American Revolution. Thomas Jefferson took the lead in repealing the law in Virginia, where nearly three-fourths of Tidewater land and perhaps a majority of western lands were entailed. Canada had the same law but repealed it in 1851.\n\nWhen Winston Churchill and Franklin Roosevelt met at Placentia Bay in August 1941, FDR said he couldn’t understand the British aristocracy’s concept of primogeniture, and he intended to divide his estate equally between his five children; Churchill explained that an equal distribution was nicknamed the “Spanish Curse” by the British upper classes: \"“We give everything to the eldest and the others strive to duplicate it and found empires. While the oldest, having it all, marries for beauty. Which accounts, Mr President, for my good looks”\". But as Churchill’s father was a younger son, there may have been more modesty than mock-vanity than FDR realised.\n\nIn 2006, King Juan Carlos I of Spain decreed a reform of the succession to noble titles from male-preference primogeniture to absolute primogeniture.\nSince 2013, there has been a revived movement to reform hereditary peerage inheritance law for equal primogeniture. The Equality (Titles) Bill and its successive legislation have been referred to as the \"Downton law\" in reference to the British television drama \"Downton Abbey\" where the Earl's eldest daughter is unable to inherit the family seat because it is entailed and can be passed only to a male heir.\n\n"}
{"id": "5548734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5548734", "title": "Prison Reform Trust", "text": "Prison Reform Trust\n\nThe Prison Reform Trust (PRT) was founded in 1981 in London, England by a small group of prison reform campaigners who were unhappy with the direction in which the Howard League for Penal Reform was heading, concentrating more on community punishments than on traditional prison reform issues. Founding members included Sir Monty Finniston and Veronica Linklater.\n\nPRT offers advice and information to thousands of people every year: prisoners, their families, prison and probation staff, the legal profession, students, academics and interested members of the public. PRT organise an annual lecture (delivered by Charles Clarke MP, Home Secretary, in 2005), and a range of conferences and seminars which attract high-profile speakers and large audiences.\n\nThe Prison Reform Trust carries out research on all aspects of prison. Recent studies include: prisoners' views on prison education, the mental health needs of women prisoners, older prisoners, prisoner councils, foreign national prisoners, prisoner votes, and a report into how sentencers make the decision to imprison offenders.\n\nStephen Shaw was Director of PRT from 1981 to 1999, when he became the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman for England and Wales. He was succeeded as Director by Juliet Lyon.\n\nSir Monty Finniston was succeeded as Chair by the former Cabinet Minister, Edmund Dell, broadcaster and journalist, Jon Snow. Lord Douglas Hurd, the former Home Secretary and Foreign Secretary, succeeded Jon Snow as PRT's fourth chair in November 1997. Robert Fellowes, a crossbench peer, who has served as Private Secretary to Queen Elizabeth II, and holds a senior position at Barclays plc succeeded Douglas Hurd in September 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48015661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48015661", "title": "Scintilla (communist group)", "text": "Scintilla (communist group)\n\n\"Scintilla\" was a communist circle created in Rome in 1940, as one of a number of attempts to refound the Communist Party of Italy (PCd'I) banned since 1926. Most of its leaders would later contribute to creating the dissident-communist Movimento Comunista d'Italia, largest formation of the Italian Resistance in Rome.\n\nIt issued two issues of a newsletter, and brought together a number of former communist and anarchist militants working in post, rail and other sectors. The organisation was smashed by Roman police in December 1942, only to resurface in the liberalisation period following Pietro Badoglio's 25 July 1943 coup against Benito Mussolini.\n\nLeading members of \"Scintilla\" included Tigrino Sabatini (executed 3 May 1944), a veteran of the PCd’I and \"Arditi del Popolo\"; the youthful San Lorenzo carpenter Orfeo Mucci, son of an anarchist bakers’ union leader; the cobbler Ezio Lombardi (executed 24 March 1944), a 1920s organiser of the Rome PCd’I who had been expelled from a organisation on ‘security grounds’ in 1930; the septuagenarian lawyer Raffaele de Luca, a former anarchist who served as Socialist mayor of Paola in 1921 before joining the PCd’I; the postman Ernesto Sansone (who died at a German prison camp after his November 1943 deportation); the Christian-socialist graphic designer Francesco Cretara, who was later co-editor of \"Bandiera Rossa\"; the florist Agostino Raponi, a veteran Communist from the Abruzzo region who joined Togliatti’s PCI in prison after his December 1942 arrest; the Socialist statistician Pietro Bàttara; the grenadier captain Aladino Govoni (executed 24 March 1944), whose father was a futurist poet; and Socialist journalist Ezio Villani. Scintilla’s only female member, Anna-Maria Enriques (executed 12 June 1944 in Florence) was a Christian-socialist sacked from her job at the Tuscan capital’s state archives in 1938 because her father was Jewish.\n"}
{"id": "47576431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47576431", "title": "Southern Political Science Association", "text": "Southern Political Science Association\n\nThe Southern Political Science Association (SPSA) is an American learned society. It promotes political science in the Southern United States.\n\nThe Southern Political Science Association was founded in 1929 in Atlanta, Georgia. It is independent of the American Political Science Association. Its first president was Cullen B. Gosnell, a Professor of Political Science at Emory University.\n\nThe association organizes a conference every January. From 1929 to 1936, it took place in Atlanta, Georgia. However, since 1937, its location has changed to a different location in the South every year. From 1956 to 1963, the annual meeting took place in Gatlinburg, Tennessee, where both whites and blacks could find places to stay.\n\nIts president was Alfred Benjamin Butts in 1938. Roscoe C. Martin served as its president in 1942. He was followed by Herman Clarence Nixon, who served as its president in 1944 and 1945. By 1955, its president was Manning J. Dauer.\nIn 1964, Martin Luther King, Jr. gave an address at the SPSA meeting in Durham, North Carolina. During the McCarthy era of the 1950s, the association remained apolitical. By 1973, its president was Samuel DuBois Cook, an African-American political scientist.\n\nThe SPSA publishes \"The Journal of Politics\", a peer-reviewed academic journal.\n"}
{"id": "53267710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53267710", "title": "Soyombo Revival Society", "text": "Soyombo Revival Society\n\nSoyombo Revival Society (in Russian Общество Возрождения Соёмбо, abbreviated ОВС, \"OVS\") was a secret society that was founded by white émigré in Mongolia (according to documents it denoted both state of Mongolia and Chinese ethnic Mongol provinces) in 1930, being subsidiary organization of Mongolian department of ROVS. Its main purpose was to gain the support of local Asiatic population in various anti-communist activities.\n\nFollowing establishment of ROVS in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes in 1924 the Far-Eastern Department was founded in 1927 from which Mongolian Department was separated in 1929. Surrounded by pro-Soviet forces, senior officials of the Mongolian department (mostly former Semyonov and Ungern staffers) decided to form separate conspiratory organization to attract more supporters from local population. Its structure and customs were largely inspired by traditional Mongolian duguilang societies and Ungern's idea of \"Order of militant buddhists\" in contrast with paramilitary organization of regular ROVS departments. Despite initial success, the Society had proven to be unable to survive after beginning of mass purges and was forced to retreat to China.\n\nIn Xingjiang, OVS had managed to gain support from exciled Semirechye cossacks and later participated in Kumul Rebellion and coup against Jin Shuren.\n\nPossibly, OVS was behind some volunteer forces fought in Suiyuan.\n\nThe Society was eventually dissolved after arrests of most of its members following the success of Soviet invasion of Manchuria and Chinese people's revolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "4162783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4162783", "title": "Standard of Good Practice for Information Security", "text": "Standard of Good Practice for Information Security\n\nThe Standard of Good Practice for Information Security, published by the Information Security Forum (ISF), is a business-focused, practical and comprehensive guide to identifying and managing information security risks in organizations and their supply chains.\n\nThe most recent edition is 2018, an update of the 2016 edition.\n\nThe 2011 Standard is the most significant update of the standard for four years. It includes information security 'hot topics' such as consumer devices, critical infrastructure, cybercrime attacks, office equipment, spreadsheets and databases and cloud computing.\n\nThe 2011 Standard is aligned with the requirements for an Information Security Management System (ISMS) set out in ISO/IEC 27000-series standards, and provides wider and deeper coverage of ISO/IEC 27002 control topics, as well as cloud computing, information leakage, consumer devices and security governance.\n\nIn addition to providing a tool to enable ISO 27001 certification, the 2011 Standard provides full coverage of COBIT v4 topics, and offers substantial alignment with other relevant standards and legislation such as PCI DSS and the Sarbanes Oxley Act, to enable compliance with these standards too.\n\nThe Standard is used by Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs), information security managers, business managers, IT managers, internal and external auditors, IT service providers in organizations of all sizes.\n\nThe 2018 Standard is available free of charge to members of the ISF. Non-members are able to purchase a copy of the standard directly from the ISF.\n\nThe Standard has historically been organized into six categories, or \"aspects\". Computer Installations and Networks address the underlying IT infrastructure on which Critical Business Applications run. The End-User Environment covers the arrangements associated with protecting corporate and workstation applications at the endpoint in use by individuals. Systems Development deals with how new applications and systems are created, and Security Management addresses high-level direction and control.\n\nThe Standard is now primarily published in a simple \"modular\" format that eliminates redundancy. For example, the various sections devoted to security audit and review have been consolidated.\n\nThe six aspects within the Standard are composed of a number of \"areas\", each covering a specific topic. An area is broken down further into \"sections\", each of which contains detailed specifications of information security best practice. Each statement has a unique reference. For example, SM41.2 indicates that a specification is in the Security Management aspect, area 4, section 1, and is listed as specification #2 within that section.\n\nThe Principles and Objectives part of the Standard provides a high-level version of the Standard, by bringing together just the \"principles\" (which provide an overview of what needs to be performed to meet the Standard) and \"objectives\" (which outline the reason why these actions are necessary) for each section.\n\nThe published Standard also includes an extensive topics matrix, index, introductory material, background information, suggestions for implementation, and other information.\n\n\"See for a list of all computing and information-security related articles\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40979624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40979624", "title": "The Age of Extremes", "text": "The Age of Extremes\n\nThe Age of Extremes: The Short Twentieth Century, 1914–1991 is a book by Eric Hobsbawm, published in 1994. In it, Hobsbawm comments on what he sees as the disastrous failures of state socialism, capitalism, and nationalism; he offers an equally skeptical take on the progress of the arts and changes in society in the latter half of the twentieth century.\n\nHobsbawm calls the period from the start of World War I to the fall of the so-called Soviet bloc \"the short twentieth century\", to follow on \"the long 19th century\", the period from the start of the French Revolution in 1789 to the start of World War I in 1914, which he covered in an earlier trilogy of histories (\"\", \"\", \"\"). In the United States, the book was published with the subtitle \"A History of the World, 1914–1991\" ().\n\n\n\nHobsbawm points out the abysmal record of recent attempts to predict the world's future. \"The record of forecasters in the past thirty or forty years, whatever their professional qualification as prophets, has been so spectacularly bad that only governments and economic research institutes still have, or pretend to have, much confidence in it.\" He quotes President Calvin Coolidge, in a message to Congress on December 4, 1928, on the eve of the Great Depression, as saying \"The country can regard the present with satisfaction and anticipate the future with optimism.\" \n\nSpeaking of the future himself, Hobsbawm largely confines himself to predicting continued turmoil: \"The world of the third millennium will therefore almost certainly continue to be one of violent politics and violent political changes. The only thing uncertain about them is where they will lead,\" and expressing the view that \"If humanity is to have a recognizable future, it cannot be by prolonging the past or the present.\" \n\nIn one of his few more concrete predictions, he writes that \"Social distribution and not growth would dominate the politics of the new millennium.\"\n\nThe Russian Revolution of 1917 was not the revolution of the most advanced capitalist societies predicted by Karl Marx. As Hobsbawm puts it, \"Capitalism had proved far easier to overthrow where it was weak or barely existed than in its heartlands.\" Even within Russia, Hobsbawm doubts the ostensibly \"progressive\" effects of the revolution: \"What remained [after revolution and civil war] was a Russia even more firmly anchored in the past... [W]hat actually governed the country was an undergrowth of smaller and larger bureaucracy, on average even less educated and qualified than before.\"\n\nIt is a central thesis of Hobsbawm's book that, from the start, State Socialism betrayed the socialist and internationalist vision it claimed to uphold. In particular, State Socialism always dispensed with the democratic element of the socialist vision: \"Lenin... concluded from the start that the liberal horse was not a runner in the Russian revolutionary race.\" This anti-liberalism ran deep. In 1933, with Benito Mussolini firmly in control of Italy, \"Moscow insisted that the Italian communist leader P. Togliatti withdraw the suggestion that, perhaps, social-democracy was not the primary danger, at least in Italy.\"\n\nAs for support for international revolution, \"The communist revolutions actually made (Yugoslavia, Albania, later China) were made against Stalin's advice. The Soviet view was that, both internationally and within each country, post-war politics should continue within the framework of the all-embracing anti-fascist alliance... There is no doubt that Stalin meant all this seriously, and tried to prove it by dissolving the Comintern in 1943, and the Communist Party of the United States in 1944. \"[T]he Chinese Communist regime, though it criticized the USSR for betraying revolutionary movements after the break between the two countries, has no comparable record of practical support for Third World liberation movements.\"\n\nOn the other hand, he is no friend of the Maoist doctrine of perpetual revolution: \"Mao was fundamentally convinced of the importance of struggle, conflict and high tension as something that was not only essential to life but prevented the relapse into the weaknesses of the old Chinese society, whose very insistence on unchanging permanence and harmony had been its weakness.\" Hobsbawm draws a straight line from this belief to the disastrous Great Leap Forward and the subsequent Chinese famine of 1959–1961.\n\nSocialism, Hobsbawm argues, ultimately fell because, eventually, \"...hardly anyone believed in the system or felt any loyalty to it, not even those who governed it.\"\n\nHobsbawm has very mixed feelings about the end of the nineteenth-century imperial order, largely because he is no happier with the nation-states that replaced the empires. \"<nowiki>[</nowiki>World War I<nowiki>]</nowiki>... had made the habitual and sensible process of international negotiation suspect as 'secret diplomacy'. This was largely a reaction against the secret treaties arranged among the Allies during the war... The Bolsheviks, discovering these sensitive documents in the Tsarist archives, had promptly published them for the world to read.\" \n\n\"The botched peace settlements after 1918 multiplied what we, at the end of the twentieth century, know to be the fatal virus of democracy, namely the division of the body of citizens exclusively along ethnic-national or religious lines.\" \"The \"reductio ad absurdum\" of... anti-colonialist logic was the attempt by an extremist Jewish fringe group in Palestine to negotiate with the Germans (via Damascus, then under the Vichy French) for help in liberating Palestine from the British, which they regarded as the top priority for Zionism. (A militant of the group involved in this mission eventually became prime minister of Israel: Yitzhak Shamir.)\" \n\nNone of this throws Hobsbawm into the embrace of free-market capitalism: \"Those of us who lived through the years of the Great Slump still find it almost impossible to understand how the orthodoxies of the pure free market, then so obviously discredited, once again came to preside over a global period of depression in the late 1980s and 1990s, which once again, they were equally unable to understand or to deal with.\"\n\n\"As it happened, the regimes most deeply committed to laissez-faire economics were also sometimes, and notably in the case of Reagan's United States and Thatcher's Britain, profoundly and viscerally nationalist and distrustful of the outside world. The historian cannot but note that the two attitudes are contradictory.\" He points up the irony that \"[T]he most dynamic and rapidly growing economy of the globe after the fall of Soviet socialism was that of Communist China, leading Western business-school lectures and the authors of management manuals, a flourishing genre of literature, to scan the teachings of Confucius for the secrets of entrepreneurial success.\"\n\nUltimately, in world terms, he sees capitalism being just as much of a failure as state socialism: \"The belief, following neoclassical economics, that unrestricted international trade would allow the poorer countries to come closer to the rich, runs counter to historical experience as well as common sense. [The examples of successful export-led Third World industrialization usually quoted -- Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea — represent less than two percent of the Third World population].\" (brackets in the original)\n\nDenying fascism's claim to philosophical respectability, Hobsbawm writes: \"Theory was not the strong point of movements devoted to the inadequancies of reason and rationalism and the superiority of instinct and will\", and further on the same page: \"Mussolini could have readily dispensed with his house philosopher, Giovanni Gentile, and Hitler probably neither knew nor cared about the support of the philosopher Heidegger.\" Instead, he claims, the popular appeal of fascism lay with its claims to technocratic achievement: \"Was not the proverbial argument in favour of fascist Italy that 'Mussolini made the trains run on time'?\"\n\nHe also writes: \"Would the horror of the holocaust be any less if historians concluded that it exterminated not six millions but five or even four?\"\n\nHobsbawm often uses statistics to paint a broad picture of a society at a particular time. With reference to the contemporary United States (at the time of writing) he points out, \"In 1991, 58 per cent of all black families in the United States were headed by a single woman and 70 per cent of all children were born to single mothers,\" and \"In 1991 15 per cent of what was proportionally the largest prison population in the world — 426 prisoners per 100,000 population -- were said to be mentally ill.\"\n\nHe finds damning statistics to back up his claim of the total failure of state socialism to promote the general welfare: \"In 1969, Austrians, Finns and Poles could expect to die at the same average age (70.1 years) but in 1989, Poles had a life expectancy about four years shorter than Austrians and Finns,\" \"...The great [Chinese] famine of 1959-61, probably the greatest famine of the twentieth century: According to official Chinese statistics, the country's population in 1959 was 672.07 millions. At the natural growth rate of the preceding seven years, which was at least 20 per thousand per year, one would have expected the Chinese population in 1961 to have been 699 millions. In fact it was 658.59 millions or forty millions less than might have been expected.\" \n\nSimilarly, \"Brazil, a monument to social neglect, had a GNP per capita almost two-and-a-half as large as Sri Lanka in 1939, and over six times as large at the end of the 80s. In Sri Lanka, which had subsidized basic foodstuffs and given free education and health care until the later 1970s, the average newborn could expect to live several years longer than the average Brazilian, and to die as an infant at about half the Brazilian rate in 1969, at a third of the Brazilian rate in 1989. The percentage of illiteracy in 1989 was about twice as great in Brazil as on the Asian island.\"\n\nHobsbawm writes on Post-war modernist art practice:\n\nHobsbawm also comments on popular culture, a subject he has left alone in other books. He writes, \"Buddy Holly, Janis Joplin, Brian Jones of the Rolling Stones, Bob Marley, Jimi Hendrix and a number of other popular divinities fell victim of a life-style designed for early death. What made such deaths symbolic was that youth, which they represented, was impermanent by definition.\" Of these, Joplin's and Hendrix's deaths were drug-related; Jones's may have been (the coroner's verdict was \"death by misadventure\"; there has been much controversy surrounding the events leading to his death); Holly died in a plane crash and Marley of cancer.\n\nHowever, he does use youth culture as a lens to view the changes in the late-twentieth-century social order:\n\nHobsbawm goes on to write that \"The cultural revolution of the latest twentieth century can thus best be understood as the triumph of the individual over society, or rather, the breaking of the threads which in the past had woven human beings into social textures\" and evokes this as paralleling Margaret Thatcher's claim that 'There is no society, only individuals'.\n\n"}
{"id": "45352902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45352902", "title": "The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels", "text": "The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels\n\nThe Moral Case for Fossil Fuels is a 2014 book by American energy theorist Alex Epstein, in which the author argues that, although sometimes labeled as \"immoral,\" the use of fossil fuels dramatically improves the overall progress of humanity, and improves life expectancy and income. The book was a \"New York Times\" and \"Wall Street Journal\" bestseller.\n\n\"The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels\" outlines the benefits that the development of coal, oil, and natural gas have had on mankind, including improved health, increased lifespan, and expansion of material welfare.\n\nThe book also covers the topics of climate livability, the effects of carbon emissions, the nature of the environmental movement, and the role fossil fuels play in everyday life. Epstein writes that alternative energy sources like wind, solar, and biofuels are inferior to fossil fuels because they are more expensive and less reliable. He also examines trends in storm energy, global temperatures, and sea level changes and concludes that any changes are minor and do not justify alarmist predictions.\n\nPositive reviews of the book were published by \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Barron's\", \"National Review\", \"Reason\", \"The Washington Free Beacon\", and \"The Morning Sun\". Several blogs also featured positive reviews, including those of the Independent Institute and The Heartland Institute, two conservative think tanks.\n\nCritical reviews were published by \"Inside Higher Ed\", \"The Huffington Post\", \"The Guardian\", and \"Our World\", a publication of the United Nations University. Jason Wilson of \"The Guardian\" alleged that Epstein has a close association with conservative advocacy groups and receives funding from the Koch brothers and that \"Epstein's work has been popular and influential on the right because it is a particularly fluent, elaborate form of climate denialism.\" \n\nIn 2014, Epstein was interviewed by Peter Thiel at an event hosted by the energy startup Tachyus. Thiel also provided a blurb for the book.\n\nIn December 2014, political commentator John McLaughlin called Epstein \"most original thinker of the year\" for his book during McLaughlin's yearly \"The McLaughlin Group\" roundup.\n"}
{"id": "26065296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26065296", "title": "The Real Global Warming Disaster", "text": "The Real Global Warming Disaster\n\nThe Real Global Warming Disaster (\"Is the Obsession with 'Climate Change' Turning Out to Be the Most Costly Scientific Blunder in History?\") is a 2009 book by English journalist and author Christopher Booker in which he asserts that global warming can not be attributed to humans, and then alleges how the scientific opinion on climate change was formulated.\n\nFrom a standpoint of environmental scepticism, Booker seeks to combine an analysis of the science of global warming with the consequences of political decisions to reduce emissions and claims that, as governments prepare to make radical changes in energy policies, the scientific evidence for global warming is becoming increasingly challenged. He asserts that global warming is not supported by a significant number of climate scientists, and criticises how the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) presents evidence and data, in particular citing its reliance on potentially inaccurate global climate models to make temperature projections. Booker concludes, \"it begins to look very possible that the nightmare vision of our planet being doomed\" may be imaginary, and that, if so, \"it will turn out to be one of the most expensive, destructive, and foolish mistakes the human race has ever made\".\n\nThe book's claims were strongly criticised by science writer Philip Ball, but the book was praised by several columnists. The book opens with an erroneous quotation, which Booker subsequently acknowledged and promised to correct in future editions.\n\nThe book was Amazon UK's fourth bestselling environment book of the decade 2000–10.\n\nThe book consists of three parts and an epilogue.\n\nBooker sums up the book's contents in a long epilogue, which quotes Theseus in \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\":\n\nIn the night, imagining some fear,\nHow easy is a bush supposed a bear\n\nBooker contends that in this quote Shakespeare is identifying that \"when we are not presented with enough information for our minds to resolve something into certainty, they may be teased into exaggerating it into something quite different from what it really is\".\n\nThe book received a mixed reception in the media.\n\nIn his review in \"The Observer\", Philip Ball wrote that the book was \"the definitive climate sceptics' manual\" in that it makes an uncritical presentation of \"just about every criticism ever made of the majority scientific view\" on global warming. Though expressing \"a queer kind of admiration for the skill and energy with which Booker has assembled his polemic\", Ball called the claims made by the author \"bunk\". Ball also criticised Booker's tactic of introducing global warming sceptics \"with a little eulogy to their credentials, while their opponents receive only a perfunctory, if not disparaging, preamble\".\n\nIn \"The Spectator\", Rodney Leach wrote that \"the shelf of sceptical books keeps filling and Booker's belongs there with the best\", remarking that Booker \"narrates this story with the journalist's pace and eye for telling detail and the historian's forensic thoroughness which have made him a formidable opponent of humbug\". Columnist James Delingpole described the book as \"another of those classics which any even vaguely intelligent person who wants to know what's really going on needs to read\".\n\nWriting in \"The Herald\", Brian Morton was largely sympathetic to the position taken by Booker in the book: \"The question isn't whether climate is changing, but what is to blame. A crippling tithe of international political effort and social action is directed to the assumption that we are\", and \"the climate change debate—or enforced consensus—concerns the way science is done and perceived. As Booker says, 'consensus' is not a term in science but in politics\".\n\nA positive review by Henry Kelly in \"The Irish Times\", referring to the book as \"meticulously researched, provocative and challenging\", was criticised by Irish environmental campaigner and \"climatechange.ie\" website founder John Gibbons, who said that the decision by \"The Irish Times\" to allow Kelly to review \"The Real Global Warming Disaster\" was part of a recent trend of \"the media giving too much coverage to 'anti-science' climate change deniers and failing to convey the gravity of the threat, making readers and viewers apathetic\".\n\nIn \"The Scotsman\", writer and environmentalist Sir John Lister-Kaye chose \"The Real Global Warming Disaster\" as one of his books of the year, writing that \"though barely credible in places\" this was an \"important, brave book making and explaining many valid points\".\n\nThe book opens with an incorrect quotation which wrongly attributes to John T. Houghton the words \"Unless we announce disasters, no one will listen\". The publishers apologised for this misquotation, confirmed that it would not be repeated, and agreed to place a corrigendum in any further copies of the book. In an article which appeared in \"The Sunday Telegraph\" on 20 February 2010, Booker wrote \"we shall all in due course take steps to correct the record, as I shall do in the next edition of my book\".\nHoughton felt that Booker continued to misstate his position regarding the role of disasters in policy making, and he referred the matter to the Press Complaints Commission (PCC Reference 101959), following whose involvement \"The Sunday Telegraph\" published on 15 August a letter of correction by Houghton stating his actual position, that adverse events shock people and thereby bring about change. \nAn article supportive of Houghton appeared in the \"New Scientist\" magazine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1467679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1467679", "title": "Timeline of events preceding World War II", "text": "Timeline of events preceding World War II\n\nThis timeline of events preceding World War II covers the events of the interwar period (1918–1939) after World War I that affected or led to World War II.\n\n\"Leaders of major participating countries\"\nOctober 29\n\nNovember 11\n\nDecember 27\n\nJanuary 4–15\nJanuary 18\nJanuary 31\nFebruary\nMarch 2\nMarch 12\nMarch 21\nMay 15\nJune 28\nJuly\nAugust 1\nSeptember 10\nSeptember 12\nNovember 27\n\nJanuary 10\nJanuary 21\nMarch\n\nJune 4\nAugust 10\n\nOctober\n\nNovember\n\nDecember 24\n\n7-17 March\n18 March\n24 April\nAugust 25\nAugust 29\nNovember 9\n\nFebruary 6\nMarch\nApril 16\nAugust 13\nOctober\nOctober 29\nNovember 1\n\nJanuary 11\nJune\nJuly 24\nAugust 31\nSeptember 27\nOctober 29\nNovember 8\n\nJanuary 21\nFebruary 1\nMarch 16\nApril 1\nApril 6\nJune 10\nAugust 16\nAugust 18\n\nMay 12\nJuly 18\nDecember 1\n\nJanuary 3\nJanuary 31\nApril 4\nApril 24\nSeptember 8\nDecember 25\n\nApril 12\nMay 20\nJune 7\nNovember 12\nDecember 14\n\nMay 3\nMay 28\nJune 4\nAugust 2\nAugust 27\nOctober 1\n\nFebruary 9\nFebruary 11\nMarch 4\nMarch 28\nApril 3\nJune 7\nJuly 24\nAugust 31\nOctober 29\n\nApril 22\nJune 30\nSeptember 14\n\nMay 19\nSeptember 18\nSeptember 19\n\nJanuary 7\nJanuary 28\nFebruary 27\nMarch 1\nApril 10\nMay 30\nAugust 30\nNovember 21\nDecember 3\n\nJanuary 1\nJanuary 30\nFebruary 27\nFebruary 28\nMarch 4\nMarch 20\nMarch 23\nMarch 24\nMarch 27\nApril 1\nApril 26\nMay 2\nMay 15 \nMay 31\nJune 21\nJuly 14\nAugust 25\nSeptember 12\nOctober 19\nNovember 24\n\nJanuary 26\nFebruary 12–16\nMarch 20\nJune 30\nJuly 20\nJuly 25\nAugust 2\nAugust 8\nSeptember\nOctober 16\nDecember 1\nDecember 5\nDecember 29\n\nJanuary 7\nJune 18\nAugust 31\nSeptember 15\nOctober 2\n\nNovember 14 \n\nJanuary\nFebruary 6\nMarch 7\nMarch 25\nMay 5\nJune 3\nJuly 17\nAugust 1\nOctober\nOctober 18\nNovember 14\nNovember 15\nNovember 25\nDecember 1\nDecember 12\nDecember 23\nDecember 24\n\nJanuary 20\nMay 28\nJuly 7\nAugust 13\nOctober 5\nNovember 6\nNovember 26\nDecember 1\nDecember 8\nDecember 11\nDecember 12\nDecember 13\n\nJanuary 26\nMarch 6\nMarch 13\nMarch 24\nJuly 6–16\nJuly 29\nAugust\nSeptember 27\nSeptember 30\n\nOctober 5\nNovember 7\nNovember 9\n\nJanuary 25\nJanuary 27\nMarch 14\nMarch 15\nMarch 16\nMarch 20\nMarch 21\nMarch 23\nMarch 31\nApril 1\nApril 3\nApril 4\nApril 7–12\nApril 14\nApril 18\nApril 28\nMay 11\nMay 17\nMay 22\nJune 14\nJuly 10\nAugust 2\nAugust 23\nAugust 25\nAugust 30\nSeptember 1\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44940115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44940115", "title": "Turning assistant", "text": "Turning assistant\n\nTurning assistant is a new advanced driver-assistance system introduced in 2015.\n\nThe system monitors opposing traffic when turning left at low speeds. In critical situation, it brakes the car. This is a common scenario at busy city crossings as well as on highways, where the speed limits are higher.\n\n"}
{"id": "53958025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53958025", "title": "Women's National Council", "text": "Women's National Council\n\nWomen's National Council ( (1923-1942) was the only women's umbrella organization in Czechoslovakia and only official women's collective which existed in the country until after 1990. As such, it was the most significant feminist organization in the interwar period. Founded by Františka Plamínková, its members strove for reform of marriage laws and employment restrictions of women, which they believed had been promised by the equality mandate in the new constitution.\n\nAfter the founding of the Czechoslovak Republic in 1918 and passage of its constitution in 1920, Františka Plamínková, a politician who recognized the need for an effective lobbying group for women's issues, established the Women's National Council (ŽNR) in 1923. Throughout the life of the organization, Plamínková served as the president. The governing documents of the ŽNR were approved by the Ministry of the Interior on 24 February 1923, and soon after its formation joined the International Council of Women and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance. The organization was established as an umbrella organization to unite other women's organizations in gaining political and civic equality for women. Established in Prague, with a branch office in Brno, by 1935, they had fifty affiliated organizations and some 2,200 members without regard to creed, nationality or political affiliation. Most of the affiliated organizations were professional organizations of civil servants, social workers and teachers, with membership among the educated middle class. Because the organization focused on Czech women and meetings and correspondence was in the Czech language women identifying as German or Slovak rarely joined, though the Slovak network, Živena and several German and Jewish organizations were members. The organization's leadership was staunchly anti-clerical, which often precluded Catholic women's organizations from participating. Politically, the membership included members of the Agrarian Party, Communist Party, National Socialist Party and Social Democratic Party, but most of the executive were aligned with the conservative National Democrats.\n\nThe ŽNR worked to educate women about their rights, as well as to mold public opinion. To that end, they worked to establish a library of materials about women both from within Czechoslovakia and abroad. The organization collected women's literature, and specifically tried to obtain information on reforms, draft laws, and pending legislation which might impact women's equality. Members were encouraged to contact legislative members, trade unions and libraries in other jurisdictions to expand the information ŽNR could offer for study to members, public officials and journalists. They also established a journal, \"Ženská rada\" (Women's advice) which was published from 1925 to 1938 and edited by Plamínková. Developing a number of departments, the organization focused on women's civil status as wives and employees, educational opportunities, family matters and parenting, legal status, morality, pacifism, personal freedom, and societal improvement. Members like Milada Horáková, Marie Svozilová and Hana Vichová devoted speeches and articles to criticize the government's failure to implement laws for equality which was constitutionally guaranteed. They demanded an end to employment discrimination on the basis of sex and insisted that equal pay for employment based on education and skill be upheld. Because the civil code designated the man as head of the household, women by law were legal dependents having the same position as children, with decision-making authority over their economic life or guardianship concerns for their children. ŽNR drafted a new civil code which called for equality of spouses as well as for their mutual care of dependents and each other. Each spouse should have the right to work and the responsibility for care of the family with equal decision-making authority, and for domestic maintenance. There should be equality in division of assets, the right of spouses to choose their legal name, the right of divorce and equal alimony regardless to the sex of the lower earning partner. Their suggestions were rejected and though the law was revised in 1931, men still maintained authority over children, property and their wives; the only substantive change being that marriage would henceforward be a civil partnership, rather than a religious rite. \n\nWith the advent of the Great Depression and austerity measures put in place at that time, ŽNR pressed for relief programs that provided assistance to the unemployed, rather than the mass dismissal of women workers. The women also worked for assistance programs for the disabled, illegitimate children and orphans, a juvenile court system, protections for women prisoners, and a comprehensive reform of unemployment schemes, specifically for the establishment of a women's unemployment fund. When the Nazi occupation began in 1938, women lost ground. Implementation of programs outlawing all political parties except the state-sponsored party, which women could not join, effectively silenced the ŽNR's ability to engage politically. State-sponsored paternalism ensured that the women's choices were curtailed and President Emil Hácha took over the appointment of the women who were to serve on the ŽNR board, some of whom were not members of the organization. The intent was to subvert the concerns of women from women's issues and point them toward state-approved activities which would benefit the state. in 1942, the organization was outlawed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1456771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1456771", "title": "Worker cooperative", "text": "Worker cooperative\n\nA worker cooperative, is a cooperative that is owned and self-managed by its workers. This control may be exercised in a number of ways. A cooperative enterprise may mean a firm where every worker-owner participates in decision-making in a democratic fashion, or it may refer to one in which management is elected by every worker-owner, and it can refer to a situation in which managers are considered, and treated as, workers of the firm. In traditional forms of worker cooperative, all shares are held by the workforce with no outside or consumer owners, and each member has one voting share. In practice, control by worker-owners may be exercised through individual, collective, or majority ownership by the workforce; or the retention of individual, collective, or majority voting rights (exercised on a one-member one-vote basis). A worker cooperative, therefore, has the characteristic that each of its workers owns one share, and all shares are owned by the workers. The International organisation representing worker cooperatives is CICOPA. CICOPA has two regional organisations: CECOP- CICOPA Europe and CICOPA Americas.\n\nWorker cooperatives rose to prominence during the Industrial Revolution as part of the labour movement. As employment moved to industrial areas and job sectors declined, workers began organizing and controlling businesses for themselves. Workers cooperative were originally sparked by \"critical reaction to industrial capitalism and the excesses of the industrial revolution.\" The formation of some workers cooperatives were designed to \"cope with the evils of unbridled capitalism and the insecurities of wage labor\".\n\nThe philosophy that underpinned the cooperative movement stemmed from the socialist writings of thinkers including Robert Owen and Charles Fourier. Robert Owen, considered by many as the father of the cooperative movement, made his fortune in the cotton trade, but believed in putting his workers in a good environment with access to education for themselves and their children. These ideas were put into effect successfully in the cotton mills of New Lanark, Scotland. It was here that the first co-operative store was opened. Spurred on by the success of this, he had the idea of forming \"villages of co-operation\" where workers would drag themselves out of poverty by growing their own food, making their own clothes and ultimately becoming self-governing. He tried to form such communities in Orbiston in Scotland and in New Harmony, Indiana in the United States of America, but both communities failed.\n\nSimilar early experiments were made in the early 19th century and by 1830 there were several hundred co-operatives. Dr William King made Owen's ideas more workable and practical. He believed in starting small, and realized that the working classes would need to set up co-operatives for themselves, so he saw his role as one of instruction. He founded a monthly periodical called \"The Co-operator\", the first edition of which appeared on 1 May 1828. This gave a mixture of co-operative philosophy and practical advice about running a shop using cooperative principles.\n\nThe first successful organization was the Rochdale Society of Equitable Pioneers, established in England in 1844. The Rochdale Pioneers established the ‘Rochdale Principles’ on which they ran their cooperative. This became the basis for the development and growth of the modern cooperative movement. As the mechanization of the Industrial Revolution was forcing more and more skilled workers into poverty, these tradesmen decided to band together to open their own store selling food items they could not otherwise afford.\n\nWith lessons from prior failed attempts at co-operation in mind, they designed the now famous Rochdale Principles, and over a period of four months they struggled to pool one pound sterling per person for a total of 28 pounds of capital. On 21 December 1844, they opened their store with a very meagre selection of butter, sugar, flour, oatmeal and a few candles. Within three months, they expanded their selection to include tea and tobacco, and they were soon known for providing high quality, unadulterated goods.\n\nThe Co-operative Group formed gradually over 140 years from the merger of many independent retail societies, and their wholesale societies and federations. In 1863, twenty years after the Rochdale Pioneers opened their co-operative, the North of England Co-operative Society was launched by 300 individual co-ops across Yorkshire and Lancashire. By 1872, it had become known as the Co-operative Wholesale Society (CWS). Through the 20th century, smaller societies merged with CWS, such as the Scottish Co-operative Wholesale Society (1973) and the South Suburban Co-operative Society (1984).\n\nWhen the current cooperative movement resurfaced in the 1960s it developed mostly on a new system of \"collective ownership\" where par value shares were issued as symbols of egalitarian voting rights. Typically, a member may only own one share to maintain the egalitarian ethos. Once brought in as a member, after a period of time on probation usually so the new candidate can be evaluated, he or she was given power to manage the coop, without \"ownership\" in the traditional sense. In the UK this system is known as common ownership.\n\nSome of these early cooperatives still exist and most new worker cooperatives follow their lead and develop a relationship to capital that is more radical than the previous system of equity share ownership.\n\nIn the United States there is no coherent legislation regarding worker cooperatives nationally, much less Federal laws, so most worker cooperatives make use of traditional consumer cooperative law and try to fine-tune it for their purposes. In some cases the members (workers) of the cooperative in fact \"own\" the enterprise by buying a share that represents a fraction of the market value of the cooperative.\n\nIn Britain this type of cooperative was traditionally known as a \"producer cooperative\", and, while it was overshadowed by the consumer and agricultural types, made up a small section of its own within the national apex body, the Cooperative Union. The 'new wave' of worker cooperatives that took off in Britain in the mid-1970s joined the Industrial Common Ownership Movement (ICOM) as a separate federation. Buoyed up by the alternative and ecological movements and by the political drive to create jobs, the sector peaked at around 2,000 enterprises. However the growth rate slowed, the sector contracted, and in 2001 ICOM merged with the Co-operative Union (which was the federal body for consumer cooperatives) to create Co-operatives UK, thus reunifying the cooperative sector.\n\nIn 2008 Co-operatives UK launched The Worker Co-operative Code of Governance, an attempt to implement the ICA approved World Declaration.\n\nIn 2018 Google announced a $1 million grant to a platform cooperative development kit in collaboration with 5 pilot cooperatives, which are all worker-owned.\n\nMany definitions exist as to what qualifies as a workers' cooperative. CICOPA, the International Organisation of Industrial, Artisanal and Service Producers’ Cooperatives, gives an 8-page definition in their World Declaration on Workers' Cooperatives, which was approved by the International Co-operative Alliance General Assembly in September 2005. Below is the section on the basic characteristics of workers' cooperatives:\n\n\nWorkers' cooperatives also follow the Rochdale Principles and values, which are a set of core principles for the operation of cooperatives. They were first set out by the Rochdale Society of Equitable Pioneers in Rochdale, England, in 1844 and have formed the basis for the principles on which co-operatives around the world operate to this day.\n\nEven though there is no universally accepted definition of a workers' cooperative, they can be considered to be businesses that make a product, or offer a service, to sell for profit where the workers are members or worker-owners. Worker-owners work in the business, govern it and manage it. Unlike with conventional firms, ownership and decision-making power of a worker cooperative should be vested solely with the worker-owners and ultimate authority rests with the worker-owners as a whole. Worker-owners control the resources of the cooperative and the work process, such as wages or hours of work.\n\nAs mentioned above, the majority—if not all—of the workers in a given worker cooperative enterprise are worker-owners, although some casual or wage workers may be employed with whom profits and decision making are not necessarily shared equally. Workers also often undergo a trial or screening period (such as three or six months) before being allowed to have full voting rights.\n\nParticipation is based on one vote per worker-owner, regardless of the number of shares or equity owned by each worker-owner. Voting rights are not tied to investment or patronage in the workers' co-operative, and only worker-owners can vote on decisions that affect them. In practice, worker co-operatives have to accommodate a range of interests to survive and have experimented with different voice and voting arrangements to accommodate the interests of trade unions, local authorities, those who have invested proportionately more labour, or through attempts to mix individual and collective forms of worker ownership and control.\n\nAs noted by theorists and practitioners alike, the importance of capital should be subordinated to labour in workers' cooperatives. Indeed, Adams et al. see workers' cooperatives as \"labor-ist\" rather than \"capital-ist\":\n\n\"Labor is the hiring factor, therefore the voting and property rights are assigned to the people who do the work and not to capital, even though the worker-members supply capital through membership fees and retained earnings...Any profit or loss after normal operating expenses is assigned to members on the basis of their labor contribution.\"\n\nNevertheless, recent developments in the co-operative movement have started to shift thinking more clearly towards multi-stakeholder perspectives. This has resulted in repeated attempts to develop model rules that differentiate control rights from investment and profit-sharing rights. Workers' co-operatives have often been seen as an alternative or \"third way\" to the domination of labour by either capital or the state (see below for a comparison). Co-operatives traditionally combine social benefit interests with capitalistic property-right interests. Co-operatives achieve a mix of social and capital purposes by democratically governing distribution questions by and between equal controlling members. Democratic oversight of decisions to equitably distribute assets and other benefits means capital ownership is arranged in a way for social benefit inside the organization. External societal benefit is also encouraged by incorporating the operating-principle of cooperation between co-operatives.\n\nIn short, workers' co-operatives are organised to serve the needs of worker-owners by generating benefits (which may or may not be profits) for the worker owners rather than external investors. This worker-driven orientation makes them fundamentally different from other corporations. Additional cooperative structural characteristics and guiding principles further distinguish them from other business models. For example, worker-owners may not believe that profit maximisation is the best, or only, goal for their co-operative or they may follow the Rochdale Principles. As another example, worker cooperatives’ flattened management structure and more egalitarian ideology often give workers more options and greater freedom in resolving work-place problems.\n\nProfits (or losses) earned by the worker's cooperative are shared by worker owners. Salaries generally have a low ratio difference which ideally should be \"guided by principles of proportionality, external solidarity and internal solidarity\" (such as a two to one ratio between lowest and highest earner), and often are equal for all workers. Salaries can be calculated according to skill, seniority or time worked and can be raised or lowered in good times or bad to ensure job security.\n\nWorker cooperatives have a wide variety of internal structures. Worker control can be exercised directly or indirectly by worker-owners. If exercised indirectly, members of representative decision-making bodies (e.g. a Board of Directors) must be elected by the worker-owners (who in turn hire the management) and be subject to removal by the worker-owners. This is a hierarchical structure similar to that of a conventional business, with a board of directors and various grades of manager, with the difference being that the board of directors is elected.\n\nIf exercised directly, all members meet regularly to make—and vote on—decisions on how the co-operative is run. Direct workers' cooperatives sometimes use consensus decision-making to make decisions. Direct worker control ensures a formally flat management structure instead of a hierarchical one. This structure is influenced by activist collectives and civic organizations, with all members allowed and expected to play a managerial role. Such structures may be associated with political aims such as anarchism, libertarian socialism and participatory economics.\n\nSome workers' cooperatives also practice job rotation or balanced job complexes to overcome inequalities of power as well as to give workers a wider range of experiences and exposure to the different jobs in a work place so that they are better able to make decisions about the whole workplace. The Mondragon Bookstore & Coffeehouse is a good example of a workplace that does this.\n\nThe term 'worker collective' is sometimes used to describe worker cooperatives which are also collectives: that is, managed without hierarchies such as permanent manager roles.\n\nCommon ownership is practised by large numbers of voluntary associations and non-profit organizations as well as implicitly by all public bodies. Most co-operatives have some element of common ownership, but some part of their capital may be individually owned.\n\nThe principle of common ownership was codified in UK law in the Industrial Common Ownership Act 1976 which defines a \"common ownership enterprise\" as:\n\na body as to which the registrar has given, and has not revoked, a certificate stating that he is satisfied—\n\nThe principle is typically implemented through inserting two clauses in a company's Memorandum of Association, or an industrial and provident society's rules:\n\n\nBritish law has been reluctant to entrench common ownership, insisting that a three-quarters majority of a company’s members, by passing a \"special resolution\", have the right to amend a company’s memorandum of association. This three-quarters majority above applies to most limited companies, except that it is possible since 2006 to entrench altruistic dissolution in an industrial and provident society registered as a \"community benefit society\" (\"bencom\"). This statutory asset lock is not available to societies registered as 'bona fide' co-operatives. However, such entrenchment has also been written into the community interest company (CIC), a new legal status that was introduced in 2005.\n\nSection 1.2 of the Industrial Common Ownership Act authorised the Secretary of State for Industry to make grants and loans to bodies \"constituted for the purpose of encouraging the development of common ownership enterprises or co-operative enterprises\" up to a total of £250,000 over a period of five years, with the proviso that grants should not exceed £30,000 in any year. Grants to promote common ownership enterprises were made to the Industrial Common Ownership Movement and the Scottish Co-operatives Development Committee, while loans were administered through Common Ownership Finance Ltd. This section was repealed in 2004.\n\nIn 1978 the UK government set up the national Cooperative Development Agency and in subsequent years common ownership was promoted as a model to create employment, and approximately 100 local authorities in the UK established co-operative development agencies for this purpose.\n\nA very significant early influence on the movement has been the Scott Bader Commonwealth, a composites and specialty polymer plastics manufacturing company in Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, which its owner Ernest Bader gave to the workforce in installments through the late 1950s to early 1960s. Contrary to the popular concept of common ownership organisations as being small organisations, this is a high-technology chemical manufacturer whose turnover has exceeded £100 million per annum since the early 1990s with a workforce of hundreds. In London, Calverts is an example of an established worker co-operative with a policy of pay parity. From the collective movement, one of the most successful ventures is probably Suma Wholefoods in Elland, West Yorkshire.\n\nThe advocacy of workplace democracy, especially with the fullest expression of worker self-management, such as within workers' cooperatives, is rooted within several intellectual or political traditions:\n\n\nWorkers' cooperatives are also central to ideas of Autonomism, Distributism, Mutualism, Syndicalism, Participatory economics, Guild socialism, Libertarian socialism as well as others.\n\nEconomists have modeled the worker cooperative as a firm in which labor hires capital, rather than capital hiring labor as in a conventional firm. The classic theoretical contributions of such a \"labor managed firm\" (LMF) model are due to Benjamin Ward and Jaroslav Vanek.\n\nIn the neoclassical version, the objective of the LMF is to maximize not total profit, but rather income per worker. But such a scenario implies \"perverse\" behavior, such as laying off workers when output price rises so as to divide increased profits among fewer members. Evidence supporting such behavior is lacking however; a review of the empirical economics literature is found in Bonin, Jones, and Putterman. But alternative behavioral models have been proposed. Peter Law examined LMFs that value employment as well as income. Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen examined pay according to work and according to need. Nobel Laureate James Meade examined behavior of an \"inegalitarian\" LMF.\n\nGenerally, the evidence indicates that worker cooperatives have higher productivity than conventional companies although this difference may be modest in size. Economists have explained clustering of worker coops through leagues or \"supporting structures\" Regions where large clusters of worker cooperatives are found supported by leagues include Mondragón, in the Basque Region of Spain, home of Mondragón Cooperative Corporation and in Italy, particularly Emilia-Romagna. Leagues provide various kinds of scale economies to make coops viable. But as leagues need coops to start them the result is a chicken or egg problem that helps explain why few coops get started.\n\nWorker co-operation is well established in most countries in Europe, with the largest movements being in Italy, Spain and France.\n\nThe European Cooperative Statute, which has been in force since 2006, permits worker cooperatives to be created by individuals or corporate bodies in different EU countries. It is a loose framework which devolves much detail to the national legislation of the country in which the European Cooperative Society (ECS) is registered. It permits a minority of shares to be held by 'investor members' which are not employees.\n\nWorkers' associations were legalised in 1848 and again in 1864. In 1871, during the Paris Commune, workshops abandoned by their owners and were taken over by their workers. In 1884 a chamber of workers' cooperatives was founded. By 1900 France had nearly 250 workers' cooperatives and 500 by 1910. The movement was to rise and fall throughout the twentieth century, with growth in 1936, after the Second World War, between 1978 and 1982 and since 1995.\n\nIn 2004 France had 1700 workers' co-operatives, with 36,000 people working in them. The average size of a co-operative was 21 employees. More than 60% of co-operative employees were also members. French workers' co-operatives today include some large organisations such as and . Other cooperatives whose names are generally known include the magazines \"Alternatives économiques\" and \"Les Dernières Nouvelles d'Alsace\", the driving school ECF CERCA and the toy manufacturer \"Moulin Roty\".\n\nThe cooperative movement in Emilia-Romagna, Italy, successfully melds two divergent philosophical currents: Socialism and Catholicism. With more than a century of cooperative history, the region includes more than 8,000 cooperatives.\n\nThe employee-owned IT company Kantega has several times been recognized as one of the 100 Best Workplaces in Europe.\n\nOne of the world's best known examples of worker cooperation is the Mondragón Cooperative Corporation in the Basque Country.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Labour Party's enthusiasm for worker cooperatives was at its highest in the 1970s and 1980s, with Tony Benn being a prominent advocate. A small number of such co-operatives were formed during the 1974 Labour Government as worker takeovers following the bankruptcy of a private firm in a desperate attempt to save the jobs at risk. However the change in ownership structure was usually unable to resist the underlying commercial failure. This was true in particular of the best known, the Meriden motor-cycle cooperative in the West Midlands which took over the assets of the ailing Triumph company, although there were instances of successful employee buy-outs of nationalised industries in the period, notably National Express. Meanwhile, many more worker co-operatives were founded as start-up businesses, and by the late 1980s there were some 2,000 in existence. Since then the number has declined considerably.\n\nCo-operatives are typically registered under either the Companies Act 2006 or the Co-operative and Community Benefit Societies Act 2014 (IPS), though other legal forms are available. A number of model rules have been devised to enable cooperatives to register under both acts; for workers' cooperatives, these rules restrict membership to those who are employed by the workplace. Most workers' co-operatives are incorporated bodies, which limits the liability if the co-operative fails and goes into liquidation.\n\nThe largest examples of a British worker cooperatives include, Suma Wholefoods, Bristol-based Essential Trading Co-operative, Brighton-based Infinity Foods Cooperative Ltd and the retail giant John Lewis Partnership (although it only uses the term occasionally).\n\nIn Israel, worker cooperatives emerged in the early 20th century alongside the Kibbutz, the collective farming movement. The Kibbutz is a cooperative movement which was founded on Zionist ideas, with the intention to cultivate land and increase the number of Jewish settlements. By the 1970s, the Histadrut (Israel Labour Federation) controlled a significant number of corporations, including Israel’s largest bank—Bank Hapoalim (literally the Worker’s Bank). By the 1990s, the Histadrut had lost its power and influence and many worker cooperative corporations were sold or became public companies. Israel’s biggest public transportation company, Egged, is still a workers cooperative. However, Egged employs workers who are not cooperative members and are paid at a lower wage than worker-members.\n\nNational Organization\n\nThe United States Federation of Worker Cooperatives is the only organization in the U.S. representing worker cooperative interests nationally. Offering a voice on national level, promoting the worker co-operative model, uniting co-ops at conferences and providing a base of support and technical assistance to the worker co-operative community. \n\nRegional Organizations\n\nThe Eastern Conference for Workplace Democracy and Western Worker Co-operative Conference hold conferences every other year for their respective regions. In addition, there are national and regional nonprofit organizations that focus on providing technical support and assistance to both create new worker cooperatives (start-ups) and conversions of existing businesses into worker cooperatives, usually when the business owner is retiring and wants to sell the company. These organizations include Democracy at Work Institute (created by the U.S. Federation of Worker Cooperatives), Cooperative Development Institute, Ohio Employee Ownership Center, Vermont Employee Ownership Center, Project Equity, and others.\n\nLocal Organizations\n\nLocal networks and secondary co-operatives—co-ops of co-operatives—are spread throughout the country.\n\nWorker co-ops in Canada are represented by the Canadian Worker Co-op Federation (CWCF). Members of the CWCF are found throughout English Canada.\n\nOntario has its own federation with well-developed standards. Quebec has a distinct worker co-operative history, and is presently organised into a number of regional federations.\n\nAfter the revolt on 1 January 1994 from EZLN, the indigenous people in Chiapas started the reconstruction of their Zapatista coffee cooperatives.\n\nIn response to the economic crisis in Argentina, many Argentinian workers occupied the premises of bankrupt businesses and began to run them as worker-owned cooperatives. As of 2005, there were roughly 200 worker-owned businesses in Argentina, most of which were started in response to this crisis. The documentary film \"The Take\" described this phenomenon.\n\nAccording to a recent statement by the International Co-operative Alliance, cooperative businesses in Argentina employ nearly 20 million people across a number of business sectors from health care to housing to factory work and beyond. These businesses are increasing in number at a drastic rate, with over 6000 having been created in 2012 alone.\n\nSee also recovered factory.\n\nVenezuela began to see an upsurge of worker cooperatives after Hugo Chávez's election in 1999. Upon his election, the Venezuelan constitution was rewritten as an extension of his \"Bolivarian Revolution\" movement. The government saw cooperatives as a way to democratize capital and decentralize the state. The new constitution added terms and conditions which aided the starting of new cooperatives. The government also created tax exemption programs in 2004, which incentivized cooperative building and allowed for cooperatives of various sizes to emerge.\n\nAccording to some, Venezuela is home to the most vibrant cooperative movement in the world, and has approximately 946,000 members in 83,769 cooperatives in all sectors of the economy.\n\nIndians own the largest worker cooperative in the world: Indian Coffee Houses.\nThe Indian Coffee Houses in India were started by the Coffee Board in the early 1940s, during British rule. In the mid-1950s the Board closed down the Coffee Houses, due to a policy change. The thrown-out workers then took over the branches, under the leadership of A. K. Gopalan and renamed the network as Indian Coffee House. This history is recorded in Coffee Housinte Katha, a book in Malayalam, the mother tongue of A. K. Gopalan. The author of the book is Nadakkal Parameswaran Pillai one of the leaders of the ICH movement. Another very large network of worker coops is Kerala Dinesh Beedi, originally started by exploited beedi rollers.\n\nThere are significant differences between ends and means between firms where capital controls labour, or firms where the state controls both labour and capital. These distinctions are easily seen when measured by essential elements of commerce: purpose, organization, ownership, control, sources of capital, distribution of profits, dividends, operational practices, and tax treatment. The following chart compares the commercial elements of capitalism, socialism, and cooperative worker-ownership. It is based on US rules and regulations.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
