{"id": "40495206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40495206", "title": "1991 Paris Peace Accords", "text": "1991 Paris Peace Accords\n\nThe Paris Peace Accords (, ) formally titled Agreements on a Comprehensive Political Settlement of the Cambodia Conflict were signed on October 23, 1991, and marked the official end of the Cambodian–Vietnamese War. The agreement led to the deployment of the first post-Cold War peace keeping mission (UNTAC) and the first ever occasion in which the UN took over as the government of a state. The agreement was signed by nineteen countries.\n\n23 October is a public holiday in Cambodia to commemorate the anniversary of the Paris Peace Agreement. It was announced by the government in late 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "47677059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47677059", "title": "2015 South Coast blackout", "text": "2015 South Coast blackout\n\nThe 2015 South Coast blackout was a power outage that affected more than 710,000 residents living in the Lower Mainland and Vancouver Island regions of the Canadian province of British Columbia. It was the largest blackout event in BC Hydro history. The blackout was a result of windstorm that hit the South Coast on August 29–30, 2015, which shut down a generator and wiped out a power grid in the Lower Mainland.\n\nThe hardest hit areas were Abbotsford, Coquitlam, Langley, Pitt Meadows, Port Coquitlam, Port Moody and Surrey. The blackout lasted more than 72 hours for some neighbourhoods in these municipalities.\n\nThe blackout began with a windstorm that knocked over trees and blew away branches sometime in the early morning of August 29, 2015. Later around noon, a generator blew out, with most of the electricity going out in neighbourhoods in Coquitlam, Port Moody, and Port Coquitlam, with certain buildings equipped with partial emergency lighting and businesses closing for the day as a result of the blackout. Reports also surfaced that people saw sparks blow up on cables in neighbourhoods. Wind speeds reached 90 to 100 km/h at the time of the blackout. People who were desperate of getting warm food either had to travel to nearby Burnaby to order, resulting in cramped lineups. The same also happened in select businesses in Port Coquitlam, with cramped lineups also occurring there. The next day, BC Hydro stated that the power to the homes should resume by midnight August 31, 2015, but resumed 6 hours earlier than most expected. However, some local areas of BC took longer to regain power.\n"}
{"id": "47060368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47060368", "title": "2015 Trophée Éric Bompard", "text": "2015 Trophée Éric Bompard\n\nThe 2015 Trophée Éric Bompard was the fourth event of six in the 2015–16 ISU Grand Prix of Figure Skating, a senior-level international invitational competition series. It was held at the Meriadeck Ice Rink in Bordeaux on November 13. Medals were awarded in the disciplines of men's singles, ladies' singles, pair skating, and ice dancing. Skaters earned points toward qualifying for the 2015–16 Grand Prix Final.\n\nThe competition was cancelled after the first day following the November 2015 Paris attacks. The short programs and short dances had been completed on 13 November, but the free skatings and free dances were to be held on the second day.\n\nOn 23 November, the International Skating Union announced that the short program/short dance results would be considered as the final results for world standing/ranking points, prize money, as well as qualifiers for the Grand Prix Final.\n\n\nSkaters did not compete their free skating/free dance programs, as the second day of competition was cancelled due to the November 2015 Paris attacks. The short programs of all four disciplines finished several hours before the attacks began.\n\n"}
{"id": "9711141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711141", "title": "40th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "40th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 40th World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon), also known as Chicon IV, was held September 2–6, 1982, at the Hyatt Regency Chicago in Chicago, Illinois, United States. \n\nThe chairmen were Ross Pavlac and Larry Propp; Larry Smith and Bob Hillis were vice-chairmen. The guests of honor were A. Bertram Chandler (pro), Frank Kelly Freas (pro), and Lee Hoffman (fan). The toastmaster was Marta Randall. Total attendance was 4,275. Other notable attendees included Muppets creator Jim Henson and actor Jeff Pomerantz.\n\nAt Chicon IV, the Hugo Awards were made of a lucite rocket on a wooden base. This is the only time lucite was used for the award.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24436223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24436223", "title": "Aftermath of the Falklands War", "text": "Aftermath of the Falklands War\n\nThe aftermath of the 1982 Falklands War (\"Guerra de Malvinas\" in Spanish) between the United Kingdom and Argentina saw an impact upon world geopolitics, the local political culture in Argentina and the UK, military thought, medical treatment, and the lives of those who were directly involved in the war.\n\nDiplomatic relations between the UK and Argentina were not restored until 1989 under a formula which put the issue of sovereignty to one side (\"the sovereignty umbrella\") and established a framework within which further talks on matters of mutual interest could be held.\n\nThe Argentine loss of the war led to ever-larger protests against the military regime and is credited with giving the final push to drive out the military government that had overthrown Isabel Perón in 1976 and perpetrated the crimes of the Dirty War. Galtieri was forced to resign and elections were held on 30 October 1983 and a new president, Raúl Alfonsín, the Radical Civic Union (UCR) party candidate, took office on 10 December 1983, defeating Italo Luder, the candidate for the Justicialist Party (Peronist movement). In the long term the debacle concluded the periodical intervention of the Argentine military in the politics since the 1930s.\n\nIn 2009, Argentine authorities in Comodoro Rivadavia ratified a decision made by authorities in Río Grande, Tierra del Fuego (which, according to Argentina, have authority over the islands) charging 70 officers and corporals with inhumane treatment of conscript soldiers during the war. \"We have testimony from 23 people about a soldier who was shot to death by a corporal, four other former combatants who starved to death, and at least 15 cases of conscripts who were staked out on the ground\", Pablo Vassel, under-secretary of human rights in the province of Corrientes, told Inter Press Service News Agency. There are claims that false testimonies were used as evidence in accusing the Argentine officers and NCOs and Vassel had to step down from his post as under-secretary of human rights of Corrientes in 2010.\n\nThe Falkland Islands remained a self-governing British overseas territory, but shortly after the war the British Nationality (Falkland Islands) Act 1983 granted the Islanders British citizenship (replacing British Dependent Territories citizenship), strengthening the link between the Islanders and the UK. The economy also benefited indirectly from UK military investment and directly from development of fisheries. The future of the Falkland Islanders' link to the UK has been more certain as a result of the war, and the Islands' government remains committed to self-determination and British sovereignty. The only civilian deaths during the war were three women who were killed when a Royal Navy shell hit the house they were sheltering in during a bombardment of military targets inside Stanley itself.\n\nFor the UK, the war cost 255 men, six ships (ten others suffered varying degrees of battle damage), 34 aircraft and £2.778 billion, but the campaign was considered a great victory for the United Kingdom. The months following the war saw the popularity of the Conservative Government increase, with some attributing this rise to the aftermath of the war with others suggesting that the rise in popularity was due to an increase in economic optimism, with the war increasing productivity by 3%. The war did however cause several members of the government to resign, including the Foreign Secretary Lord Carrington, the most recent time that a UK government minister resigned openly in response to a failure of his department (in not anticipating the war).\n\nCriticism was levelled at Ted Rowlands, a former junior foreign minister in the preceding government, who disclosed in Parliament in April 1982 that the British had broken the Argentine diplomatic codes. As the same code machines were used by the Argentine military, this disclosure immediately served to deny British access to valuable intelligence. This, and other responses to parliamentary questions, and leaks of information to the BBC has been alleged by historian Hugh Bicheno to be a deliberate attempt to undermine the Thatcher government on the part of a variety of individuals who had a vested interest in its fall. There is some debate as to the accuracy of the claims regarding Ted Rowlands. Mark Urban in his book \"UK Eyes Alpha\" makes reference to a \"figure intimate with the workings of GCHQ\" who suggested that Rowlands's comment had no noticeable effect.\n\nUltimately, the successful conclusion of the war gave a noticeable fillip to British patriotic feeling, with the mobilisation of national identity encapsulated in the so-called \"Falklands Factor\". Since the failure of the 1956 Suez campaign, the end of Empire and the economic decline of the 1970s which culminated in the Winter of Discontent, Britain had been beset by uncertainty and anxiety about its international role, status and capability. With the war successfully concluded, Thatcher was returned to power with an increased Parliamentary majority and felt empowered to press ahead with the economic readjustments of Thatcherism.\n\nA second major effect was a reaffirmation of the special relationship between the US and UK. Both Reagan and Weinberger (his Secretary of Defense) were appointed honorary Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) for their help in the campaign, but the more obvious result was the common alignment of Britain and the USA in a more confrontational foreign policy against the Soviet bloc, sometimes known as the Second Cold War.\n\nIn 2007 the British government expressed regrets over the deaths on both sides in the war. Margaret Thatcher was quoted as saying \"in the struggle against evil... we can all today draw hope and strength\" from the Falklands victory, while former Argentinian President Néstor Kirchner claimed while in office that the UK won a colonial victory and vowed that the islands would one day return to Argentine sovereignty. He qualified this, however, with an affirmation that force could never again be used in an attempt to bring this about.\n\nThe United States' reputation in parts of Latin America was damaged because of the perception that it had broken the Rio Treaty (Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance or TIAR) by providing the UK with military supplies.\n\nIn September 2001 the then President of Mexico Vicente Fox cited the Falklands War as proof of the failure of the TIAR.\n\nRegarding the attitude of the Latin American governments, K.J. Holsti presents another sight of the South American dilemma: \"While South American governments (except Chile) publicly supported Argentina in its conflict with Great Britain, in private many governments were pleased with the outcome of the war. Argentina's bellicosity against Chile over the Beagle Channel problem ... [its] foreign intervention ([in] Bolivia and Nicaragua) ... and [its] propounded geopolitical doctrines that were seen in other countries as threatening to them\". So, according to David R. Mares, \"Brazilian military analysts worried about the problems of having a successful and belligerent Argentina as neighbour\".\n\nFor Chile, engaged with Argentina in a long-standing territorial dispute over the Cape Horn islands, the outcome of the war averted a planned Argentine military invasion of Chile and made possible the Treaty of Peace and Friendship of 1984 between Chile and Argentina.\n\nIn May 1982, Pope John Paul II carried out a long-scheduled visit to the United Kingdom. In view of the crisis it was decided that this should be balanced with an unscheduled trip to Argentina in June. It is contended that his presence and words spiritually prepared Argentines for a possible defeat, contrary to the propaganda issued by the Junta. He returned to Argentina in 1987 after the return of democratic government.\n\nMilitarily, the Falklands conflict remains the largest air-naval combat operation between modern forces since the end of the Second World War. As such, it has been the subject of intense study by military analysts and historians. The most significant \"lessons learned\" include the vulnerability of surface ships to anti-ship missiles and submarines, the challenges of coordinating logistical support for a long-distance projection of power, and reconfirmation of the role of tactical air power, including the use of helicopters.\n\nIn his book \"The Price of Admiralty\", military historian Sir John Keegan noted that the brief conflict showed the irremediable vulnerability of surface ships to anti-ship missiles, and, most importantly, to submarines: despite the seemingly limited consequences of the war, it confirmed the dominance of the submarine in naval warfare. This is especially so, Keegan argues, because submarines are far less vulnerable than aircraft to counterattack, being able to approach and destroy their targets with almost complete impunity.\n\nHowever, many prominent naval tacticians have recently argued this point; the sinking of the ARA \"General Belgrano\" was the result of a modern nuclear-powered submarine hunting a pre-World War II ship with no anti-submarine capabilities, and the British ships sunk by the Argentinian Air Force were acceptable casualties in view of the fact that they were screening forces, either for the British aircraft carriers in the cases of HMS \"Sheffield\" and even \"Atlantic Conveyor\", or for the amphibious landing forces as with HMS \"Coventry\", HMS \"Ardent\" and HMS \"Antelope\".\n\nNeither side achieved total air supremacy; nonetheless, air power proved to be of critical importance during the conflict, due to the isolated, rough landscape of the Falklands in which the mobility of land forces was restricted. Air strikes were staged against ground, sea and air targets on both sides, and often with clear results. All of the UK losses at sea were caused by aircraft or missile strikes (by both the Argentine Air Force and Naval Aviation). The French Exocet missile proved its lethality in air-to-surface operations, leading to retrofitting of most major ships with Close-in weapon systems (CIWS).\n\nThe air war in the Falklands vindicated the UK decision to maintain at least the STOVL aircraft carriers after the retirement of . The domination of air power in major naval engagements was demonstrated, along with the usefulness of carriers and it proved the small but manoeuvrable Sea Harrier as a true fighter. Sea Harriers shot down 21 aircraft with no air-to-air losses themselves, although six were lost to ground fire and accidents.\n\nIt should be noted that the disparity in figures, with the Argentine fighters failing to shoot down a single Sea Harrier, can be explained by several factors, including limited fighter control that was provided by British warships in San Carlos Water, the then almost unparalleled Blue Fox radar, and the extreme manoeuvrability of the Sea Harrier. Additionally the British had the latest AIM-9L Sidewinder missiles, while the only Argentine planes with air-to-air missiles for self-defence were the Mirages. The AIM-9Ls had a much wider angle of engagement than the earlier versions employed by the Argentines, which could only effectively engage the rear quarter of an enemy aircraft. The only advantage of the Argentine jets was their higher maximum speed, but Argentine pilots could not benefit from this unless they risked running out of fuel, as was seen in the first air combat of the war when a Mirage IIIEA was forced to attempt a landing at Stanley.\n\nThe importance of Airborne Early Warning (AEW) was shown. The Royal Navy had effectively no over-the-horizon radar capability. This was hastily rectified after the war, with Sea King helicopters fitted with radomes containing a variant of the Nimrod ASW aircraft's Searchwater radar. These first travelled south after the war on the brand new , sister ship to .\n\nThe usefulness of helicopters in combat, logistic, and casevac operations was confirmed.\n\nThe logistical capability of the UK armed forces was stretched to the limit in order to mount an amphibious operation so far from a land base, in mountainous islands with few roads. After the war much work was done to improve both the logistical and amphibious capability of the Royal Navy. Task force commander Rear Admiral Sir Sandy Woodward referred to the conflict as \"a lot closer run than many would care to believe\", reflecting the naval and military belief that few people understood—or understand—the extent to which the logistical dimension made the war a difficult operation for the UK.\n\nThe ships of the task force could only remain on station for a limited time in the worsening southern hemisphere winter. With such a high proportion of the Royal Navy's surface fleet engaged, or lost in combat, there were few units available for northbound traffic. At the core of the fleet, \"Invincible\" could possibly have been replaced by the hastily prepared \"Illustrious\" or the loaned \"\", but there was no replacement available for \"Hermes\", the larger of the two British carriers. Woodward's strategy, therefore, required the land war to be won before \"Hermes\", in particular, succumbed to the harsh environment. Woodward called the operation \"a damned close-run thing\", quoting the Duke of Wellington after the Battle of Waterloo.\n\nThe usefulness of special forces units was reaffirmed. British special forces destroyed many Argentine aircraft (notably in the SAS raid on Pebble Island) and carried out highly informative intelligence-gathering operations. Contrary to popular understanding, the Argentine special forces also patrolled hard, in appalling climatic conditions, against a professional enemy and showed that they could sometimes get the upper hand.\n\nNylon was shown to be a poor choice for fabric in uniforms, as it is more flammable than cotton and also melts with heat. Burning nylon adheres to the skin, causing avoidable casualties.\n\nStrained by two oil crises (1973 and 1979), the United Kingdom's government desired to cut defence spending in line with the rest of Europe. Many former British possessions in Africa and Asia had gained independence from the UK by the 1980s. Due to this decolonisation, successive British governments investigated closing British overseas bases and reducing the UK's armed forces in the belief that capabilities such as a blue water navy were no longer required. The Conservative government's Defence Secretary John Nott produced a white paper in 1981 proposing major cuts for the navy in the next ten years (the army and the RAF had already been tailored for NATO.)\n\nDenis Healey, the Defence Secretary in 1966, once said that aircraft carriers were required only for operations involving 'landing or withdrawal of troops against sophisticated opposition outside range of land-based air cover'. When the last conventional carrier in the Royal Navy, , was decommissioned in 1978, the pro-carrier lobby succeeded in acquiring light carriers (euphemistically christened 'through deck cruisers') equipped with VTOL Sea Harriers as well as helicopters, justified by the fact that one of their primary roles was anti-submarine warfare. John Nott's defence review concluded that anti-submarine defence would be performed more cheaply by a smaller number of destroyers and frigates. The carrier was therefore to be scrapped and sold to Australia. Under the review, the Royal Navy was focused primarily on anti-submarine warfare under the auspices of NATO. Any out-of-area amphibious operations were considered unlikely. The entire Royal Marines was in jeopardy of being disbanded and the sale of and was mooted.\n\nIn 1980, low funding caused many ships to be in harbour for months due to lack of spare parts and fuel. The largest cut in the Royal Navy's conventional forces led to the resignation of the Navy Minister Keith Speed in 1981. Sea battles, mass convoys, amphibious landings, and coastal bombardments were considered obsolete in the second half of the 20th century. The head of the admiralty, First Sea Lord Admiral Sir Henry Leach, was still fighting the cuts in the Ministry of Defence together with the Chief of Defence Staff, who by chance, was also a naval officer — Admiral of the Fleet Sir Terence Lewin.\n\nAt the onset of the crisis, First Sea Lord Sir Henry Leach was summoned to brief the Prime Minister. He claimed that Britain was able to recapture the islands, and that it should be done. \"Since here was a clear, imminent threat to British overseas territory that could only be reached by sea, what the hell was the point in having a Navy if it was not used for this sort of thing?\". Aware of the necessity for speed, Leach had already given orders for the ships of a potential task force to be prepared for deployment. On 2 April, at a briefing at the House of Commons, Leach advised the Prime Minister that a task force was necessary and could sail within 48 hours. Lewin, who was forced to return from a scheduled visit to New Zealand, also impressed on the War Cabinet that the primary objective for the United Kingdom should be: \"to bring about the withdrawal of Argentine forces from the Falkland Islands, and the re-establishment of British administration there, as quickly as possible\". Inspired, Thatcher ordered the despatch of the Task Force for the South Atlantic.\n\nAfter the war, the sale of HMS \"Invincible\" to Australia was cancelled, with \"Hermes\" offered instead (eventually being sold to India as INS \"Viraat\" in 1986), and the operational status of all three support carriers was maintained. The proposed cutback in the surface fleet was abandoned and replacements for many of the lost ships and helicopters plus more Sea Harriers were ordered. The amphibious assault ships and were not decommissioned until 2002 and 1999 respectively, being replaced by and .\n\nA RN ship always patrols the South Atlantic on a six-month rotation. In 2012, the thirtieth anniversary of the war, the RN's most powerful warship, HMS Dauntless visited the Falkland Islands, and it was theoretically capable of destroying the entire Argentine airforce.\n\nThe Royal Navy confirmed its commitment to a carrier force with the order of two Queen Elizabeth class carriers in 2007.\n\nFor the Soviet Union and Warsaw Pact militaries, the Falklands War forced a re-examination of their estimates in the quality of Western troops and in particularly, how well an all-volunteer force would compare against conscripted forces. The Soviets became aware that the British relied heavily on the quality and training of their personnel to compensate for the extreme logistical difficulties the campaign presented. It was also noted that both sides were using many of the same western made weapon systems, their combat performance and effectiveness information collected during and after the war was analyzed by the Soviets, to be used to create counter-combat strategies to be adopted by their forces in an event of a then-possible war against NATO.\n\nThe Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM) failed to anticipate a conflict between Argentina and the UK when approving weapon exports to Argentina.\n\nIt has been reported that two years after the war, Labour MPs demanded an inquiry into reports that a Resolution class submarine armed with the Polaris SLBMs had deployed to Ascension Island during the operation, ostensibly to prepare for a nuclear strike. The Ministry of Defence is reported to have denied the allegations, and Freedman's Official History does the same.\n\nIn 1982, British warships were routinely armed with the WE.177, a tactical nuclear weapon with a variable yield of either 10 kilotons or 0.5 kiloton, which was used as a Nuclear Depth Bomb in an antisubmarine role. The Official History describes the contorted logistical arrangements that led to the removal of the nuclear depth bombs from the frigates, following political alarm in Whitehall. Eventually at least some of the depth bombs were brought back to the UK by an RFA vessel. In December 2003, Argentine President Néstor Kirchner demanded an apology from the British government for the \"regrettable and monstrous\" act of arming warships engaged in the conflict with nuclear depth charges.\n\nIn his 2002 memoirs Sir John Nott, Britain's Secretary of State for Defence during the conflict, made following disclosure regarding the activities of the UK's Secret Intelligence Service (MI6):\n\nAccording to a documentary by the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation (NRK), during the war a Norwegian Intelligence Service facility situated at Fauske in the northern county of Nordland regularly intercepted Soviet satellite intelligence data, which was forwarded to the Northwood Headquarters. Said \"a high-ranking British military source\":\n\nAccording to Russian journalist Sergei Brilev, whose claims were reported in \"The Times\" on 2 April 2010, Argentina may have received satellite imagery of British positions from the Soviet Union during the conflict.\n\nIn 2005, an Argentine film called \"Blessed by Fire\" exposed the mistreatment of Argentine conscripts during the war. That film \"led directly to a criminal investigation\" which resulted in the filing of formal charges of crimes against humanity against 70 Argentine military officers for the alleged abuse, torture and, in one case, murder of their own troops. However, the Comodoro Rivadavia Criminal Cassation Court ruled that tortures suffered by soldiers are not crimes against humanity [see instead War Crimes, a different legal category], thus the Argentine statute of limitations was applicable, and since that time limit had already been exceeded, the court therefore dismissed [\"prescribed\", in Argentine legal language] the case. On appeal to a higher court, the Comodoro Rivadavia Federal Chamber upheld the lower court's ruling.\n\nDuring the operations, several wounded British soldiers had to spend hours in the cold before receiving medical aid—yet no British soldier died who was evacuated to a medical aid station, a fact confirmed by Surgeon Commander Rick Jolly, the Medical Officer In Charge of the refrigeration plant at Ajax Bay (nicknamed \"The Red and Green Life machine\" by the medics). Many recovered better than medical opinion of the time considered possible; subsequent theories have postulated this may have been due to a combination of the extreme cold and the good standards of physical fitness amongst the wounded. Britain also had medical staff familiar with high velocity gunshot wounds, due to their experiences in the Northern Ireland conflict with the IRA.\n\nThe British Ministry of Defence was accused several times of a systematic failure to prepare service personnel for the horrors of war and to provide adequate care for them afterwards.\n\nThere are allegations that the Ministry of Defence has tried to ignore the issue of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), which left many sufferers emotionally scarred and unable to work, immersed in social dislocation, alcoholism, and depression. Veterans have suffered prolonged personality disorders, flashbacks, and anxiety sometimes reaching pathological levels.\n\nIt has been claimed that more veterans have committed suicide since the Falklands War ended than the number of servicemen killed in action. The South Atlantic Medal Association (SAMA82), which represents and helps Falklands veterans, believes that some 264 veterans had taken their own lives by 2002, a number exceeding the 255 who died in active service, although no estimate is available for the expected number of suicides that would have occurred anyway.\n\nA comprehensive statistical study of the deaths of personnel deployed to the Falklands since the end of the conflict was published by Defence Analytical Services and Advice (DASA) on Tuesday 14 May 2013. The study found that:\n\nThe statistics show that 7% of the deaths of Falklands veterans since the campaign were attributed to suicide, significantly less than the number of deaths during the campaign, and that, for Falklands veterans,\n\nThe trials of one British patient, Robert Lawrence, MC, were chronicled in a book co-authored by him entitled \"When The Fighting is Over\" which was later adapted into a television film. Lawrence was shot at close range by an FN rifle and lost a large percentage of brain matter, but recovered to a degree not thought possible. He remains partially paralysed in the left side of his body. After the war he became an outspoken critic of the British Army's treatment of Falklands veterans.\n\nA similar situation afflicts the veterans on the Argentine side, many of whom have similarly suffered from psychiatric disorders, drug and alcohol abuse, and social turmoil. The current Argentine suicide toll is 454, according to an Argentine film about the suicide of a Falklands veteran.\n"}
{"id": "265494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265494", "title": "Air France Flight 8969", "text": "Air France Flight 8969\n\nAir France Flight 8969 was an Air France flight that was hijacked on 24 December 1994 by the Armed Islamic Group of Algeria (GIA) at Houari Boumediene Airport, Algiers, Algeria. The terrorists murdered three passengers and their intention was to blow up the plane over the Eiffel Tower in Paris. When the aircraft reached Marseille, the National Gendarmerie Intervention Group (GIGN), a counter-terror unit of the French National Gendarmerie, stormed the plane and killed all four hijackers.\n\nAlgeria was in a state of civil war at the time of the hijacking. Aircraft flying to Algiers faced the possibility of missile attacks. As a result, Air France's flights to Algiers had crews entirely made of people who volunteered for the route. Air France had asked government officials if it absolutely had to continue flying to Algeria; as of the time of the hijacking, but they never gave Air France a reply. Bernard Delhemme was the captain of the flight. Jean-Paul Borderie was the copilot, and Alain Bossuat was the flight engineer. The Airbus A300B2-1C, tail number F-GBEC, had first flown on 28 February 1980.\n\nOn 24 December 1994, at Houari Boumedienne Airport in Algiers, four armed men boarded Air France Flight 8969 which was due to depart for Orly Airport, Paris at 11:15 am. The men were dressed as Algerian presidential police; they wore blue uniforms with Air Algérie logos. Their presence originally did not cause any alarm. Two of the men began inspecting the passengers' passports while one went into the cockpit and the fourth stood guard. Claude Burgniard, a flight attendant, recalled noticing that the \"police\" were armed and one of them had dynamite showing, which she considered to be unusual as the Algerian police were not normally armed when carrying out checks. The Algerian military felt suspicious on noticing that the Air France flight appeared to have an unauthorised delay, so they began surrounding the aircraft. Zahida Kakachi, a passenger, recalled seeing members of the Special Intervention Group (GIS), known as \"ninjas,\" outside the aircraft. Kakachi recalled hearing one of the \"police\" say \"taghut,\" an Arabic word for \"infidel\", upon seeing the GIS men gathering outside the A300; she then realised that the four men on board the plane were terrorists. The four hijackers then revealed that they were not police, but mujahideen seeking to establish an Islamic state in Algeria. They had hijacked the aircraft because the national airline Air France was a symbol of France, which they viewed as infidel foreign invaders.\n\nThe leader, Abdul Abdullah Yahia, already a notorious murderer, and the other three members of the Armed Islamic Group (Groupe Islamique Armé, or GIA) brandished firearms and explosives and announced their allegiance to the GIA, demanding co-operation from the 220 passengers and 12 flight crew. The hijackers had Kalashnikov assault rifles, Uzi submachine guns, pistols, homemade hand grenades, and two 10-stick dynamite packs. Later, at one point during the flight, the men placed one pack of dynamite in the cockpit and one pack under a seat in the middle of the aircraft, then linked them with detonator wire. They also took the uniforms of the pilots to confuse Algerian army snipers.\n\nBurgniard recalled that the hijackers, in particular one called \"Lotfi\", disliked seeing a lack of adherence to their Islamic beliefs; according to Burgniard, the hijackers objected to men and women sitting together and sharing the same toilets and women having their heads uncovered. Once they had taken control of the aircraft, the hijackers forced the women to cover their heads, including the cabin crew members. Women who did not have veils used aircraft blankets as head coverings. An elderly Algerian man told the \"TF1\" network that the hijackers \"had a kind of art in their terror. Twenty minutes of relaxation and twenty minutes of torture. You never knew what was next.\"\n\nThe men stated over the aircraft's cockpit radio: \n\nAbderrahmane Meziane Chérif, the Minister of the Interior of Algeria, came to the airport control tower to begin negotiating with the hijackers, who were using the captain to speak for them. They demanded the release of two Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) political party leaders, Abassi Madani and Ali Belhadj, who were under house arrest; the FIS was banned in Algeria in 1992. Chérif demanded that the hijackers begin releasing children and the elderly if they wanted to talk to the Algerian government. The media began arriving at the airport to cover the crisis.\n\nAt noon, the French Minister of Foreign Affairs, Alain Juppé, organised a crisis team, and Charles Pasqua, Interior Minister of France, met his aides. French Prime Minister Édouard Balladur was recalled from his Christmas vacation in Chamonix, France, and other government officials were also summoned from their vacations. Balladur recollected spending the entire afternoon on the telephone, trying to determine what was happening and feeling confused. According to Balladur, the Algerian authorities wanted to crack down on the terrorists and Balladur himself encountered difficulties discussing the events. At one point, the hijackers dropped the demand for the release of the FIS party leaders. Two hours into the hijacking, the men told the captain to depart for Paris so that they could hold a press conference there. The captain could not take off because the aircraft boarding stairs were still attached to the plane and the Algerian authorities were blocking the runway with parked vehicles. When the hijackers forced the captain to ask for the boarding stairs to be removed, the Algerian authorities refused, determined not to give in to any of the hijackers' demands. The GIA men announced that they would detonate the aircraft unless the Algerian authorities followed their orders.\n\nDuring the passport check, the hijackers had noticed that one of the passengers on the flight was an Algerian police officer. In order to force the Algerian government to comply with their demands, the hijackers approached the police officer and told him to follow them. Kakachi remembered that the police officer, seated two rows behind her, was hesitant as he did not know what they were going to do. Several passengers recalled him pleading \"Don't kill me, I have a wife and child!\" The hijackers shot the police officer in the head at the top of the boarding stairs. The pilots and most of the passengers were not aware at first that the man had been killed. Captain Delhemme recalled that his first contact with the passenger cabin during the hijacking was when a flight attendant, allowed into the cockpit, asked the pilots if they needed anything. According to Delhemme, he asked for a glass of water from the attendant to ease the pilots' parched throats. At this point, the attendant whispered to Delhemme that the hijackers had killed a passenger.\n\nThe Algerian authorities still refused to agree to the hijackers' demands. Burgniard recalled that he and the other occupants began to realise that \"things were going wrong\" when the hijackers came to collect another passenger. They selected 48-year-old Bui Giang To, a commercial attaché at the Embassy of Vietnam in Algeria. Burgniard described To as \"the real foreigner on this plane.\" She remembered that To was not intimidated by the hijackers and she believed that this attitude upset the hijackers. The Vietnamese diplomat thought he was about to be released because he was a foreigner; instead he was shot dead on the boarding stairs. Delhemme recalled that when the flight attendant next appeared with refreshments, she whispered to him that two passengers, not one, had died.\n\nThe French government wanted to bring French military personnel into Algeria to safely resolve the hijacking, but the Algerian government would not allow foreign military to land on Algerian soil to resolve an Algerian political crisis. Prime Minister Balladur said that he asked the Algerian government \"extremely forcefully and urgently\" to give permission for the aircraft to take off. He felt that the French government held responsibility for solving the problem as the aircraft belonged to a French airline and almost a third of the passengers were French.\n\nSeven hours into the hijacking, the cabin was calm but tense; at that point, few of the passengers knew that two people had been killed. It had grown dark outside and the aircraft was surrounded by spotlights. The pilots now attempted to defuse the situation by talking to the hijackers and trying to gain their trust. Delhemme explained that the beginning of a hijacking is violent, so the role of the pilot is to keep the participants calm, \"buy time\", show the hijackers who the crew are as people, and find out details about the hijackers; then the pilot has to try gaining the trust of the hijackers.\n\nDuring the night, the French military authorised its forces to be sent to Majorca, Spain, which was as close to Algeria as was possible without being accused of interfering in the situation. At 8 pm, Groupe d'Intervention de la Gendarmerie Nationale (GIGN) operatives boarded an Airbus A300 aircraft similar to F-GBEC, the hijacked plane, at a military base in France. En route to Majorca, the GIGN operatives were able to familiarise themselves with the A300 in preparation for storming the aircraft. After the GIGN's plane arrived at Palma de Mallorca Airport, the Algerian government made it clear that French forces were not welcome in Algeria.\n\nCaptain Delhemme made a tour of the cabin at about 2 am the next morning to check on the situation; he said that the cabin was \"calm\" during that time. He noticed two of the hijackers asleep on the floor. In the morning, French Prime Minister Édouard Balladur flew to Paris.\n\nNew information arrived at the Consulate General of France in Oran, Algeria, via a mole in the GIA: \n\nPolice confirmed this plan after a raid on a safe house.\n\nThe hijackers released some of the passengers, mainly women with young children and those with severe medical conditions. Over 170 people still remained on board the plane. The hijackers offered to release the remaining Algerian passengers, but the Algerians refused to leave the aircraft. Delhemme recalled that one passenger who was refusing to leave said that he thought the crew would be killed if he did, and Delhemme believes that the passengers' motives were sincere. By the end of 25 December, the hijackers had freed a total of 63 passengers.\n\nThe Algerian police used night vision devices to identify the lead hijacker, who was Abdul Abdullah Yahia. The French government sent Yahia's mother to plead for him to release the passengers, in the hope that she could persuade her son to give in, but the tactic backfired. Passenger Kakachi recalled Yahia becoming enraged by this move. At this point the hijackers began targeting the French passengers; there were two staff members of the French Embassy in Algiers on board the flight, a secretary and a chef. The hijackers forced the chef, Yannick Beugnet, to plead into the microphone. Through Beugnet, they demanded that unless the Algerian government cleared the A300 for takeoff before 9:30 pm, they would kill one passenger every 30 minutes, starting with Beugnet. They threatened to shoot him and throw him out of the door. The Algerian passengers assured him that the hijackers were bluffing while the French passengers were demanding that the aircraft be allowed to take off. When the 9:30 deadline passed, the hijackers shot the chef and threw his body outside. The door open warning light in the cockpit indicated to the pilots that another passenger had been murdered. Enraged, Captain Delhemme yelled at the Algerian authorities \"See what you get when you play tough?!\" The airline knew that the chef had been murdered as it was listening in on the conversations between the aircraft and the control tower. Philippe Legorjus, a former Air France security adviser, said in an interview that the airline employees \"lived through [the event] with great emotion.\" Zahida Kakachi recalled Lotfi calmly trying to convert her and another stewardess to Islam, though Kakachi was only pretending so that she would not enrage him.\n\nThe French government were informed of the events. Balladur spoke on the telephone to the Prime Minister of Algeria, Mokdad Sifi; he told him that the French government would hold the Algerian government responsible for the outcome if it did not authorise them to intervene in the situation. Just before midnight, Balladur told the President of Algeria, Liamine Zéroual, that France was ready to receive the Air France flight. As a result of Balladur's demands, 39 hours after the start of the hijacking, Zéroual allowed the aircraft to leave Algiers. Flight attendant Claude Burgniard recalled that everyone was relieved when the aircraft departed because they thought the crisis was over.\n\nThere was insufficient fuel on board the plane to reach Paris, because the auxiliary power unit had been running ever since the hijackers took over the plane, so a refuelling stop was scheduled at Marseille Provence Airport. Delhemme confronted Yahia to find out whether he planned to blow up the aircraft between Algiers and Marseille. Yahia insisted that the plane would fly to Marseille, take on fuel, then fly to Paris for the press conference; reassured, Delhemme prepared for takeoff. In an interview, Delhemme suggested that the hijackers would probably have said this anyway to prevent the crew from taking action against them. Burgniard recalled that the hijackers, in the cockpit, seemed excited and \"like kids\".\n\nThe aircraft approached Marseille during the early hours of 26 December. The hijackers did not know that Major Denis Favier's GIGN squad was already in Marseille, having flown from Majorca to a military base near Marseille, and planned to storm the aircraft while it was in Marseille. The GIGN squad practised entering the A300 before Flight 8969 arrived in Marseille. Favier explained in an interview that the enemy was arriving in friendly territory, and the power difference would be a key element in the struggle. The Flight 8969 aircraft landed at 3:33 am.\n\nSteward Claude Burgniard said that the hijackers felt that the landing in Marseille was a \"magic moment\" as they had arrived in France. Burgniard recalled that the airport was dark and that she only saw the lights of the A300 and a car that the A300 followed. The French authorities deliberately led the aircraft away from the terminal and into a remote corner of the airport. By 26 December, the French government had received information stating that the hijackers had planned to attack Paris. Favier planned to appear conciliatory and prolong the negotiations as long as possible. He believed that the hijackers were tired, so he planned to wear them down. Alain Gehin, the Chief of Police of Marseille, spoke to the group of hijackers in the control tower. Gehin implemented Favier's strategy.\n\nWhile using Delhemme to speak for them, the hijackers asked for 27 tonnes of fuel; the aircraft needed approximately 9 tonnes to fly to Paris from Marseille. The request indicated to the French authorities that the aircraft was going to be used as a firebomb or to fly the aircraft to an Islamic country sympathetic to the hijackers' cause. Hours later, the authorities received word of the firebomb plot. Passengers who were released in Algiers stated that the A300 had been rigged with explosives. Demolition experts determined that the plane was likely rigged in a way that would cause it to explode. Charles Pasqua said in an interview that the French government had decided that the aircraft was not going to leave Marseille, regardless of the consequences.\n\nAt around 8:00 am, the hijackers demanded that the forces let the aircraft take off by 9:40 am. The negotiators delayed the ultimatum by giving the aircraft additional food and water, emptying the toilet tanks, and providing vacuum cleaners. The GIGN operatives servicing the aircraft were disguised as regular airport personnel. They discovered the aircraft doors were not blocked or booby trapped. The men planted eavesdropping devices while others trained long-range \"cannon\" microphones on the A300's fuselage and windows. Favier's group asked the hijackers if they would rather do a press conference in Marseille instead of Paris, since all of the major press is in Marseille. The hijackers agreed to hold a press conference on the A300. The negotiators requested that the front of the aircraft would be cleared for the press conference. In fact, this was to create an area for the GIGN during the storming of the aircraft. Favier explained in an interview that the press conference was an important tactic as it allowed the passengers to be moved to the rear of the aircraft. The hijackers did not realise that the doors of the A300 could be opened from the outside.\n\nTwelve hours after the A300 arrived at Marseille, the GIGN knew how many hijackers were on board and their location on the aircraft with the help of eavesdropping devices, infrared vision equipment, and \"cannon\" microphones. It intended to wait until sundown to take advantage of the darkness. The occupants of the aircraft were unaware of the GIGN's true motives, and the militants were confused about why the press had not yet arrived. Yahia, frustrated by the absence of the press and sensing the authorities were up to something, ordered the pilot to move the aircraft. Dellemme parked the aircraft at the foot of the airport control tower and in close proximity to the terminal and other aircraft. An explosion in this position would result in many more casualties than in the earlier, remote location.\n\nThis was a tactical disadvantage for the GIGN; the positions were based on the aircraft being parked where the French authorities ordered the placement of the A300. When the aircraft moved, the GIGN had to quickly reorganise its forces. Favier placed snipers on the roof so they would have a view of the cockpit. He organised a group of thirty men with three passenger boarding stairs to rush the aircraft and take it over. Favier planned to have two teams, each with 11 people, open the rear left and rear right doors of the A300. A third team of eight would open the front right door. The forces planned to isolate the cockpit, with Yahia, from the rest of the aircraft.\n\nBy 5 pm, the authorities had not delivered any amount of fuel to the A300. Yahia entered the cabin to choose a fourth person to kill. He selected the youngest member of the Air France crew, who had told the hijackers that he was an atheist. Yahia felt reluctant to kill a fourth passenger at that point, saying \"I don't want to do this. But I have no choice.\". Burgniard stated in an interview that she did not know whether Yahia had decided not to execute the crew member; she knew that he kept delaying the execution. Instead, the hijackers opened the door and fired around the aircraft. Zahida Kakachi, a passenger, recalled that the hijackers began reciting verses from the Quran on the public address system. The verses were prayers for the dead. According to Kakachi, the passengers were silent and began to feel panicked. The hijackers knew the negotiators were in the control tower, so through the side window of the cockpit, they began to fire automatic machine guns towards the control tower. Philippe Legorjus, who at the time was the airline's security adviser, recalled that glass shattered all around the negotiators. Captain Delhemme said that throughout the time in Marseille, there had been tension, but \"nothing like what seemed to be about to happen.\" Balladur allowed Favier to take whatever actions he felt were necessary; after the hijackers fired at the control tower, Favier decided to begin the raid.\n\nOnce the hijackers noticed the airstairs moving towards them, they recognised the imminent assault. Through the cockpit window, a hijacker fired upon the airstair containing the forward GIGN team. As the first airstair reached the front starboard (right) door, it became apparent that it was elevated too high on the door frame for a uniform entry into the aircraft. The GIGN had trained on an empty aircraft, in which the suspension system of the plane was not as compressed, leading to an overestimation of the necessary height of the airstairs. After a short delay in repositioning the airstairs, GIGN forces were able to enter. The hijackers returned fire, attacking the GIGN forces. One hijacker was killed instantly. Then, the two other units entered the rear of the aircraft. The participants fired hundreds of bullets. The hijackers fired through the skin of the aircraft. Grenades erupted and smoke went through the cabin. The GIGN's concussion grenades temporarily blinded and deafened occupants, allowing the GIGN to storm the aircraft. One of the hijackers' homemade grenades detonated, causing limited damage. The snipers on the tower could not get a clear shot into the aircraft as the copilot, Jean-Paul Borderie, blocked their view. Through a window, Borderie jumped out of the cockpit and staggered away. With the view unobstructed, the snipers began firing into the cockpit, while the GIGN evacuated passengers in the rear of the aircraft.\n\nFlight attendant Claude Burgniard described the firefight as \"the apocalypse\". Christophe Morin, a flight attendant, recalled that the GIGN ordered passengers and crew to get down as low as possible with their hands over their heads, hide, and then to not move. Morin described the situation as \"violent\". He recalled putting his overcoat over his head so he would not see the tracer bullets and other occurrences during the raid. Morin said that he tried to help a female passenger next to him escape, but she was too large and Morin was unable to move her, so the two held hands. Pilot Bernard Delhemme said that he was in \"a rather bad spot\", so he crouched and made himself \"as small as possible.\" His mind made him believe that his body could stop bullets.\n\nA few minutes after the beginning of the assault, most of the passengers had escaped. At that point, three of the four hijackers were fatally shot. Delhemme recalled that the cockpit only had himself, the flight engineer, and the last hijacker. Delhemme said that the hijacker could have killed him and his colleagues out of spite, but instead did not. In an interview, Denis Favier explained that there likely was a mutual recognition and \"respect\" between the hijackers and the hostages. He believes the bonds between the hijackers and hostages helped save lives of passengers and crew in the conflict.\n\nGIGN commando Philippe Bardelli was leading a column up the front right airstair, as that team was tasked with throwing stun grenades in the cockpit, when a 7.62×39mm bullet from an AK-47 struck his drawn pistol and detonated the cartridges; Bardelli later remarked that his pistol which took the bullet actually saved his life since such AK-47 rounds were able to penetrate the GIGN's helmet visors. The remaining hijacker kept the GIGN at bay for 20 minutes, but he eventually ran out of ammunition and died from a gunshot wound. Meanwhile, the GIGN operatives were not sure which men were the hijackers and how many were still alive, so they considered all male passengers as potentially being hijackers. The flight engineer, Alain Bossuat, radioed the tower stating that the hijackers were dead and that there were no more left. This signaled to GIGN forces that a final clearing of the A300 could begin. Delhemme said that when the forces entered the aircraft, they ordered him to put his hands on his head. Delhemme said that, after the hijacking ordeal had run its course, he refused to leave with his hands on his head and be \"punished like a child.\" Burgniard said that when she saw Bossuat handcuffed, the cabin crew told the forces to let him go as the individual was the flight engineer. At 5:35 pm, Favier radioed to the tower that the incident was over; the incident unfolded in 54 hours.\n\nAll of the hijackers had been killed. The 166 remaining passengers and crew survived the 20-minute gun battle. Of the 154 remaining passengers, 13 received minor injuries. Nine of the 30 GIGN operatives received injuries; of them, one received serious wounds. Three crew members received injuries. Delhemme was struck by bullets in his right elbow and thigh. Bossuat received minor injuries; the dead bodies of two hijackers had shielded Delhemme and Bossuat from gunfire. Borderie, the most seriously injured, fractured his elbow and thigh from the 5 metre (16 ft) drop. Favier said that he determined that the operation was a success since none of the GIGN received fatal injuries. French Prime Minister Édouard Balladur said that the events unfolded \"exceptionally well.\"\n\nAs a result of the damage to the aircraft, the A300 was written off. Several hours after the incident ended, the Armed Islamic Group, which had claimed responsibility for the event, killed four Roman Catholic priests in retaliation in Tizi-Ouzou, Algeria. Three of the priests were French, while one was Belgian.\n\nThe crew of the A300 and the GIGN forces received high national honours. Charles Pasqua, then the Minister of the Interior, said that throughout the ordeal the crew \"rose to the occasion.\" Bernard Delhemme returned to flying and worked for Air France for nine years before retiring. Flight attendant Claude Burgniard said that she \"kept seeing the faces\" of the three passengers who had been executed; when she received her medal she realised that she had helped save 173 people; this allowed her to mourn and get over the incident. Burgniard said that she does not wear the medal, but that she felt like she deserved it. Burgniard, who also received a message of thanks from the airline, never again worked for Air France. Flight attendant Christophe Morin stopped working for Air France and began to work for a charitable organisation.\n\nA former militant group leader admitted that the men had planned to detonate the aircraft over the Eiffel Tower. The militant group never again attempted this plot. Pasqua said that if the militants crashed an aircraft on the Eiffel Tower or the Élysée Palace, they would have committed what they would believe to be \"an extraordinary feat.\"\n\nFlights between Algiers and Paris are now Flights 1555, 1855, 2155, and 2455 (operating to Charles de Gaulle instead of Orly). Flight number 8969 is now a codeshare flight number for Delta Air Lines flight number 1584 between Greater Rochester International Airport and Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport.\n\nMost of the passengers were Algerians; 138 of the passengers were Algerian citizens. A significant number of the passengers were French people leaving Algeria. Captain Bernard Delhemme said that the hijackers, who had extensively planned the operation, did not anticipate that most of the passengers would be Algerians. The hijackers recited Quran verses and tried to reassure the Algerian passengers. Witness accounts said that they \"terrorised\" non-Algerians.\n\nJean-Paul Borderie, the co-pilot was looking forward to spending Christmas with his family at their vineyard in Bordeaux. Zahida Kakachi was going to experience a Parisian Christmas; she had wanted to go to Midnight Mass to see what it was like. Christophe Morin was especially anxious to get home. A few months before (over the summer), his brother and sister had both died, so Morin had asked Air France if it was possible for him not to fly during the actual Christmas celebrations, but they had refused his request. He therefore went to work on the flight feeling very reluctant, because he had wanted to be with his parents and family.\n\n25-year-old Abdul Abdullah Yahia, also known as \"The Emir,\" was a petty thief and greengrocer from the Bab El Oued neighbourhood of Algiers. The negotiators said that Yahia spoke \"approximate\" French and always ended his sentences in \"Insha'Allah\" (\"God willing\"). Several passengers said all but one of the hijackers had no beards and closely cropped hair. A woman said that the men \"were polite and, correct\" and that they \"had the determined air of cold-blooded killers.\" Another passenger said the hijackers \"seemed excited, very euphoric\" and that they told the occupants that they would teach the French and the world a lesson and show what they were capable of doing.\n\nAs the hijacking progressed, the passengers recognised the personalities of the hijackers. Claude Burgniard, a flight attendant, recalled that the crew and passengers gave nicknames to the hijackers \"to make things simpler.\" Yahia, the leader, had given his name, so the passengers called him by that name. According to Burgniard, Lotfi had a \"peculiar\" character, \"was always on a knife edge,\" and \"the most fanatic\" and \"the most fundamentalist\" of the hijackers. Therefore, he received the nickname \"Madman\" from the passengers. According to Burgniard, Lotfi was the hijacker who insisted that the passengers follow Islamic law. Lotfi found women having their heads uncovered \"intolerable,\" making him very angry. One hijacker did not give his name to the passengers, so they called him \"Bill.\" Burgniard stated that Bill was \"a little bit simple\" and \"more of a goatherd than a terrorist.\" She said his role as a hijacker was \"an error in casting.\" Burgniard remembered that the occupants wondered why Bill was there and that they saw Bill appearing as if he wondered why he was there, as well. The hijacker nicknamed \"The Killer\" shot the hostages whom the hijackers had targeted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "514263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=514263", "title": "Alice's Restaurant Massacree", "text": "Alice's Restaurant Massacree\n\n\"Alice's Restaurant Massacree\" (also known as simply \"Alice's Restaurant\") is a song by singer-songwriter Arlo Guthrie, released as the title track to his 1967 debut album \"Alice's Restaurant\". The song is a satirical, deadpan protest against the Vietnam War draft, in the form of a comically exaggerated but essentially true story from Guthrie's own life: he is arrested and convicted of dumping trash illegally, which later leads to him being rejected by the draft board due to his criminal record of \"littering\". The title refers to a restaurant owned by one of Guthrie's friends, which plays no role in the story aside from being the subject of the chorus.\n\nDespite its running time of over 18 minutes, it was a hit song, and an inspiration for the 1969 film also named \"Alice's Restaurant\". The work has become Guthrie's signature song and he has periodically re-released it with updated lyrics. In 2017, it was selected for preservation in the National Recording Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or artistically significant\".\n\nThe song consists of a protracted spoken monologue, with a constantly repeated fingerstyle ragtime guitar (Piedmont style) backing and light brush-on-snare drum percussion (the drummer on the record is uncredited), bookended by a short chorus about the titular diner. (Guthrie has used the brief \"Alice's Restaurant\" bookends and guitar backing for other monologues bearing the \"Alice's Restaurant\" name.) The track lasts 18 minutes and 34 seconds, occupying the entire A-side of the \"Alice's Restaurant\" album. Due to Guthrie's rambling and circuitous telling with unimportant details, it has been described as a shaggy dog story.\n\nGuthrie refers to the incident as a \"massacree\", a colloquialism originating in the Ozark Mountains that describes \"an event so wildly and improbably and baroquely messed up that the results are almost impossible to believe\". It is a corruption of the word \"massacre\", but carries a much lighter and more sarcastic connotation, rather than describing anything involving actual death.\n\nGuthrie explains that his friend Alice owns a restaurant, but that isn't the name of the restaurant, merely the name of the song. He then sings the chorus, which is in the form of a jingle for the restaurant, beginning \"You can get anything you want at Alice's restaurant\", and continuing with directions to it.\n\nGuthrie then recounts that two years prior, he and a friend spent the Thanksgiving Day holiday at a deconsecrated church that their friends Alice and Ray were using as a home. As a favor to them, Guthrie and the friend volunteered to take their large accumulation of trash to the local dump in their VW Microbus, not realizing until they arrived there that it was closed for the holiday. Unable to find an appropriate place to dispose of the garbage, they came across a pile of garbage that had previously been dropped down the side of a cliff, and decided to simply add theirs to it.\n\nThe next morning, a police officer called, accusing him of dumping based on an envelope with Guthrie's name that he'd found in the garbage. After initially trying to claim that he had merely buried the envelope there, Guthrie confessed to the illegal dumping. He and his friend drove to the police station, hoping in vain to be praised for their honesty, and expecting a verbal reprimand, but they were instead arrested by \"Officer Obie\", handcuffed, and taken to \"the scene of the crime\". There several officers collected extensive evidence of the incident, including \"twenty-seven 8-by-10 color glossy pictures with circles and arrows and a paragraph on the back of each one explaining what each one was, to be used as evidence against us\". The pair were briefly locked up before Alice arrived and got them released, taking them back to the former church with her.\n\nGuthrie and his friend stood trial the next day, but to Obie's disappointment, the judge presiding over the case relied on a seeing-eye dog, rendering the officer's painstaking visual evidence irrelevant. Nonetheless, Guthrie and his friend pleaded guilty, and were fined $50 and required to pick up the garbage. \n\nGuthrie then states that the littering incident was \"not what I came to tell you about\", and describes his subsequent experience before a Vietnam-era draft board. He tried various strategies to be found unfit for military service, including getting drunk the night before so he was hung-over, and attempting to convince the psychiatrist that he was homicidal, which only earned him praise. \n\nFinally, Guthrie was asked whether he had ever been convicted of a crime. He attempted to fully recount the incident of the \"Alice's Restaurant Massacree\" and his trial, but was stopped and told to sit with \"Group W\", those who required a moral waiver to enlist. The convicts (\"mother-rapers... father-stabbers... father-rapers\") were initially put off that his conviction had been of \"littering\", but accepted him when he added \"and creating a nuisance\". Ultimately he was rejected by the officials – for \"bein' a litterbug\", as Guthrie puts it – but because they didn't like \"[his] kind\", his fingerprints were sent to the federal government to keep on record.\n\nIn the final part of the song, Guthrie explains to the live audience that anyone finding themselves in a similar situation should walk into the military psychiatrist's office, sing the opening line from the chorus and walk out. He predicts that a single person doing it would be rejected as \"sick\", two people doing it in harmony would be rejected as \"faggots\", three people doing it would be perceived as \"an organization\", and fifty people a day would be recognized as \"the Alice's Restaurant Anti-Massacree Movement\". As he continues fingerpicking, he invites the audience to sing the chorus along with him \"the next it comes around on the guitar\", then chides them for doing it horribly, and challenges them to sing it with him more loudly, as the finale.\n\nGuthrie cited the long-form monologues of Lord Buckley and Bill Cosby as inspirations writing the song's lyrics, and a number of different musicians (in particular Mississippi John Hurt) as inspirations composing the Piedmont fingerstyle guitar accompaniment. The song was written as the events happened over the course of approximately one year; it grew out of a simple joke riff Guthrie had been working on in 1965 and 1966 before he appeared before the draft board (the opening was originally written as \"you can hide from Obanhein at Alice's restaurant\", which is how the restaurant got tied into the original story), and he later added his experience before the draft board to create the song as it is known today. Additional portions of the song were written during one of Guthrie's many stays with the English songwriter and music journalist Karl Dallas and his family in London. Guthrie sent a demo recording of the song to his father Woody Guthrie on his deathbed; it was, according to a \"family joke\", the last thing Woody heard before he died in October 1967. Because of the length of the piece, Guthrie never expected the song to be released, because such extended monologues were extremely rare in an era when singles were typically less than three minutes in length.\n\n\"Alice's Restaurant\" was first performed publicly with Guthrie singing live on \"Radio Unnameable\", the overnight program hosted by Bob Fass that aired on New York radio station WBAI, one evening in 1966. Guthrie performed the song several times live on WBAI in 1966 and 1967, prior to the song's commercial release. The song proved so popular that at one point Fass (who was known for playing songs he liked over and over again in his graveyard slot) started playing a recording of one of Guthrie's live performances of the song repeatedly; eventually the non-commercial station rebroadcast it only when listeners pledged to donate a large amount of money.\n\n\"Alice's Restaurant\" was performed on July 17, 1967, at the Newport Folk Festival in a workshop or break-out section on \"topical songs\", where it was such a hit that he was called upon to perform it for the entire festival audience. The song's success at Newport and on WBAI led Guthrie to record it in front of a studio audience in New York City and release it as side one of the album, \"Alice's Restaurant\", which was released in October 1967.\n\nThe original album spent 16 weeks on the \"Billboard 200\" album chart, peaking at #29 during the week of March 2, 1968, then re-entered the chart December 27, 1969 after the film version was released and peaking that time at #63. The song itself was far too long to be released (or even fit) on a 45 rpm single, and so never made the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 (because of this, \"Billboard\" classifies Guthrie as a one-hit wonder for his later hit, \"City of New Orleans\", without regard to his success with \"Alice's Restaurant\"). Two years after the album came out, Guthrie released \"Alice's Rock & Roll Restaurant\" as a single—a much shorter (4:43) tune that incorporated the chorus, removed the entire monologue, used a significantly different arrangement, and added extra verses (all of which do little but advertise the restaurant). It peaked at #97 on the \"Billboard\" singles chart.\n\nIt has become a tradition for many classic rock and adult album alternative radio stations to play the song each Thanksgiving. Despite its use of the slur \"faggots\", radio stations generally present the song uncut as it was originally recorded, and the Federal Communications Commission has never punished any station for playing the song. When performing the song in later years, Guthrie began to change the line to something less offensive and often topical: \"They'll think you're gay—not that there's anything wrong with that\" or \"They'll think they're trying to get married in some parts of Kentucky.\"\n\nAfter the release of the original album, Guthrie continued to perform the song in concert, frequently revising and updating the lyrical content. In 1969, for instance, he performed a 20-minute rendition of the song which (instead of the original narrative) told a fictional story of how Russian and Chinese military operatives attempted to weaponize \"multicolored rainbow roaches\" they had found at Alice's restaurant, and the Lyndon Johnson administration orchestrated a plan for the nation to defend itself. A recording of this version, given the title \"Alice: Before Time Began\", was released in 2009 on a CD distributed by Guthrie's Rising Son Records label; another recording of this version, given the title \"The Alice's Restaurant Multicolored Rainbow Roach Affair\", has also been released through that record label. By the late 1970s, Guthrie had removed the song from his regular concert repertoire.\n\nIn 1984, Guthrie, who was supporting George McGovern's ultimately unsuccessful comeback bid for the Democratic presidential nomination, revived \"Alice's Restaurant\" to protest the Reagan Administration's reactivation of the Selective Service System registrations. This version has not been released on a commercial recording; at least one bootleg of this version from one of Guthrie's performances exists. It was this tour, which occurred near the 20th anniversary of the song (and continued as a general tour after McGovern dropped out of the race), that prompted Guthrie to return the song to his playlist every ten years, usually coinciding with the anniversary of either the song or the incident. The 30th anniversary version of the song includes a follow-up recounting how he learned that Richard Nixon had owned a copy of the song, and he jokingly suggested that this explained the famous -minute gap in the Watergate tapes. Guthrie re-recorded his entire debut album for his 1997 CD \"\", on the Rising Son label, which includes this expanded version. The 40th anniversary edition, performed at and released as a recording by the Kerrville Folk Festival, made note of some parallels between the 1960s and the then-current Iraq War and George W. Bush administration. Guthrie revived the song for the 50th anniversary edition in 2015, which he thought might be his last, not knowing if he would still be alive and able to perform the song by the time the 60th anniversary comes around in 2025. In 2018, Guthrie began the \"Alice's Restaurant: Back by Popular Demand\" Tour, reuniting with members of his 1970s backing band Shenandoah. The tour, which features Guthrie's daughter Sarah Lee Guthrie as the opening act, was scheduled to wrap up in 2020. To justify bringing the song back out of its usual ten-year sequence, he stated that he was doing so to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the film version of the song.\n\nIn a 2014 interview with \"Rolling Stone\", Guthrie explained that he believes that there are such things as just wars, and that the message of this song was targeted at the Vietnam War in particular. Interviews with Ron Bennington in 2009 and NPR in 2005 describe the song not so much as an anti-war song but as an \"anti-stupidity\" song. Guthrie considered the song as relevant as in 1965.\n\nAlthough some details of the story as told by Guthrie differ from independent sources, or cannot be verified, the people are real, and the events took place more or less as described.\n\nThe Alice in the song was restaurant-owner Alice May Brock (born c. 1941). In 1964, shortly after graduating from Sarah Lawrence College, Alice used $2,000 supplied by her mother to purchase a deconsecrated church in Great Barrington, Massachusetts, where Alice and her husband Ray Brock (c. 1928–1979) would live. Alice was a painter and designer, while Ray was an architect and woodworker. Both worked at a nearby private academy, the music and art-oriented Stockbridge School, from which Guthrie (then of the Queens, New York City neighborhood of Howard Beach) had graduated. \nAlice Brock operated a restaurant called \"The Back Room\" in 1966, at 40 Main Street in Stockbridge, located behind a grocery store and directly underneath the studios of Norman Rockwell. (Theresa's Stockbridge Café was last known to occupy the site; the café's sign makes note that the space was \"formerly Alice's Restaurant\".) After a breakup and abortive reconciliation, Alice divorced Ray in 1968; she went on to launch two more restaurants (a take-out window in Housatonic in 1971 and a much larger establishment in Lenox in the late 1970s) before leaving the restaurant business in 1979. \n\nShe owned an art studio and gallery in Provincetown, Massachusetts until 2016. She illustrated the 2004 children's book \"Mooses Come Walking\", written by Guthrie, and authored and illustrated another, \"How to Massage Your Cat\". Ray Brock, after the divorce, moved back to his original home of Virginia and died in 1979.\n\nIn 1969, Random House published \"The Alice's Restaurant Cookbook\" () which featured recipes and hippie wisdom from Alice Brock, as well as photos of Alice and Guthrie, and publicity stills from the movie. A tear-out record was included in the book with Brock and Guthrie bantering on two tracks, \"Italian-Type Meatballs\" and \"My Granma's Beet Jam\".\n\nThe church, originally built as the St. James Chapel in 1829, was enlarged in 1866 and renamed Trinity Church. Ray and Alice Brock purchased the property in 1964 and made it their home. Alice sold the building shortly after the film adaptation was released, commenting that the song and film had brought a great deal of unwanted publicity. The building changed ownership several times in the 1970s and 1980s until Guthrie bought the facility in 1991 and converted it to the Guthrie Center, a nondenominational, interfaith meeting place.\n\nThe church's exterior is covered with white vinyl siding with the original cornerstone dedications still intact. There are two public entrances, a ramp for guests with disabilities on the side of the building and another consisting of two large wooden doors. The entrance from the side leads directly into the chapel. The front entrance leads into a living room with couches and a kitchen to the left. Bathrooms are located down a straight hallway to the right. Above this hallway is a sign that reads \"One God — Many Forms / One River — Many Streams / One People — Many Faces / One Mother — Many Children -Ma\".\n\nIn the main chapel area is a stage on which Officer Obie's chair sits as a reminder of the arrest. In the rear of the chapel is a set of stairs and a loft area. A set of private rooms in which Alice and Ray once lived remains.\n\nIn later years, the Guthrie Center became a folk music venue, hosting a Thursday evening hootenanny as well as the Troubadour Concert series annually from Memorial Day to Labor Day. Musical guests have included John Gorka, Tom Paxton, Ellis Paul, Tom Rush, The Highwaymen folk group and, of course, Arlo Guthrie. The Troubadour series helps to support the church's free community lunch program which is held at the church every Wednesday at noon. On Thanksgiving, the church hosts a \"Thanksgiving dinner that can't be beat\" for the local community. The annual \"Garbage Trail Walk\", retracing the steps of Arlo and folksinger Rick Robbins (as told in the song), raises money for Huntington's disease research.\n\nThe incident which Guthrie recounts in the first half of the song was reported in \"The Berkshire Eagle\" on November 29, 1965. It describes the conviction of Richard J. Robbins, age 19, and Arlo Guthrie, age 18, for illegally disposing of rubbish, and a fine of $25 each, plus an order to remove the trash. The arresting officer was Stockbridge police chief William J. Obanhein (\"Officer Obie\"), and the trial was presided over by Special Judge James E. Hannon. It identifies the incriminating evidence as an envelope addressed to a male resident of Great Barrington (presumably Ray Brock) rather than Guthrie.\n\nAlice's Restaurant of Sky Londa, California, founded in the 1960s, was named in homage to the song.\n\nThe song was adapted into the 1969 movie \"Alice's Restaurant\", directed and co-written by Arthur Penn, who had heard the song in 1967 while living in Stockbridge and immediately wanted to make the song into a movie. Guthrie appears as himself, with Pat Quinn as Alice Brock and James Broderick as Ray Brock, William Obanhein and James Hannon appearing as themselves, and Alice Brock making a cameo appearance.\n\nThe movie was released in August 1969, a few days after Guthrie appeared at the Woodstock Festival. A soundtrack album for the film was also released by United Artists Records. The soundtrack includes a studio version of the \"Massacree\", which was originally divided into two parts (one for each album side); a compact disc reissue on the Rykodisc label presents this version of the song in full and adds several bonus tracks to the original LP.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57844965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57844965", "title": "Antonio Halili", "text": "Antonio Halili\n\nAntonio Cando Halili (February 8, 1946 – July 2, 2018) was a Filipino politician who served as the Mayor of Tanauan, Batangas from 2013 until his death in 2018. His term as Mayor was controversial due to his methods of dealing with crime and illegal drugs in his city. On July 2, 2018, he was killed during a ceremony after being shot through the chest by an unknown gunman.\n\nPrior to pursuing a political career, Antonio Halili was a businessman. He established ANC Halili Group of Companies (ANC HGC), a fully Filipino-owned conglomerate with subsidiaries participating involved in the real Estate, information technology, and private emission & drug industries. ANC HGC runs 60 emission testing centers in Luzon alone.\n\nHalili became mayor of Tanauan, a city in the province of Batangas in the Philippines, in 2013. During his term as Mayor, he gained notoriety for his treatment of suspected criminals, namely those involved in drug-related crimes. In 2016, Halili became the center of newfound attention after he ordered drug suspects to be paraded around the city, in a campaign that was dubbed the ‘walk of shame’. Suspected criminals were forced to wear cardboard signs that read, “I'm a pusher, don't emulate me”. His campaign was criticized by human rights groups and other politicians. Later on in his term, Halili himself would be accused of having drug related ties, an accusation he denied. In October 2017, he had his supervisory powers over the local police stripped from him.\n\nOn July 2, 2018, during a flag raising ceremony, Halili was shot by an unidentified sniper. The bullet hit a mobile phone in Halili’s pocket and pierced his chest. Halili’s bodyguards fired back towards a hill where the bullet appeared to have come from. The police searched the hill but failed to find anyone. Bystanders were shocked, and began panicking and taking cover. Halili was driven to the Reyes Memorial Hospital and was declared dead less than an hour after the bullet was fired. Philippine National Police Chief Director General Oscar Albayalde said that a regional special task group had been convened to investigate the killing, and was considering the suspect parades a motive. One day later, another Philippine Mayor, Ferdinand Bote of General Tinio, Nueva Ecija, was also shot.\n"}
{"id": "43982236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43982236", "title": "Art by Chance Ultra Short Film Festival", "text": "Art by Chance Ultra Short Film Festival\n\nThe Art by Chance Ultra Short Film Festival is a public art event that takes place in 26 countries, 260 cities. It presents ultra-short films in unexpected and non-theatrical venues, such as subways, buses, airports, cafes, malls, trains, sports centers, art galleries, museums and bars. The movies are one minute long, presenting a single idea, without rules or guidelines. Video submissions are judged by a professional jury. It has been organized since 2009. A fifth edition is scheduled for January 15, 2015.\n\nIn September 2009, the New York Magazine presented the event as follows: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10012677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10012677", "title": "Austin Dam failure", "text": "Austin Dam failure\n\nThe Austin Dam, also referred to as \"The Great Granite Dam\" failure was a catastrophic dam failure near Austin, Texas that killed several dozen people in 1900. The destruction of the dam drained the Lake McDonald reservoir and left the city of Austin without electrical power for a number of months.\n\n\"At 11.20 a.m. on April 7, when the lake level had reached a height of 11.07 feet above the crest of the dam, the dam gave way at a point . . . about 300 feet from the east end of the dam. Observers [at three different points] all agree in their testimony that it first opened [at the point about 300 feet from the east end of the dam], and as though the mad current had simply pushed its way through the structure. Sooner than it takes to write these words the two sections . . . each about 250 feet long, were shoved or pushed into the lower positions . . . , about 60 feet from their former positions in the dam. There was not the slightest overturning. . . . \nAs soon as the sections were broken out . . . , the partially pent-up waters rushed through the gap, those held back by [the intact section] producing a strong current in the direction of the power house. This current struck the wall of the power house almost on a level with the floor of the pump room (about 12 feet below the crest of the dam), crushed in all of the windows on the west side, flooded all of the lower stories, and caught and drowned five employees and three small boys. Two of the employees miraculously escaped by climbing through a belt hole in the dynamo room. These workmen were pumping water from the lower portions of the power house.\" \n\nSubsequent attempts to rebuild the dam were unsuccessful. The dam was finally replaced by the Tom Miller Dam in the 1940s.\n\n"}
{"id": "59145275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59145275", "title": "Baraboo Nazi salute photo", "text": "Baraboo Nazi salute photo\n\nOn November 11 and 12, 2018, a photograph of a group of Baraboo High School boys, many with their arms raised in what what looks like the Nazi salute, went viral on social media. The photographer and one student deny there was any political intent or that insult was intended, describing it as innocuous gesture. Another student in the photo, who did not raise his hand, stated that he recognized instantly that his peers were making a Nazi salute.\n\nOne of the boys in the photograph, who did not raise his hand, later described experiencing years of racist comments at the school and another, who also did not raise his hand, described enduring years of bullying that went unaddressed by the school administration.\n\nSeveral meetings have been held or scheduled to address the incident. The controversy broke at a time when, nationwide, hate speech and nationalism are rising, two weeks after eleven Jews were killed in the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting, and two years after Baraboo school district had reported a steep increase in racial harassment complaints.\n\nOn Sunday November 11, 2018, a group photograph of about sixty male Baraboo High School students, many giving what looks like a Nazi salute, was shared on social media, and by the next morning it was viral on Twitter. The photo, which had been taken six months earlier before the junior prom, was condemned by the Auschwitz Memorial, State Senator Jon Erpenbach, and Wisconsin Governor-elect Tony Evers, and it attracted international media attention. Baraboo School District Administrator Lori M. Mueller issued a statement that said in part, \"The photo of students posted to #BarabooProud is not reflective of the educational values and beliefs of the School District of Baraboo. The District will pursue any and all available and appropriate actions, including legal, to address.\"\n\nThe only black student in the photo, who did not salute, says he has heard racist comments for years at the school. \"People are making jokes all the time. Like, throughout middle school, people slinging the 'N-word' with the hard 'r'.\" Another student in the photo, who did not salute, said on Twitter, \"I knew what my morals were, and it was not to salute something I firmly didn't believe in. ... These classmates have bullied me since entering middle school. ... Nothing has been done, and my question is wi(ll) anything ever be done?\"\n\nThe photographer is quoted as saying he told the students to give the \"hi\" sign. A student in the front row, Jason Ramos, who did not salute, confirms this and supports another student who says that none of the boys knew what \"high sign\" meant. Ramos recognized instantly that his peers were making a Nazi salute. Both of these students are sure most of the boys in the photo are not racist and did not mean to make a Nazi salute. He said he believes one student thought it would be funny to give the salute, \"One hand shot up and then everyone else went with, so it was kind of like 'monkey see, monkey do.'\"\n\nIn a rally on the steps of the Sauk County Courthouse (where the photo was taken) on November 12 (the day the image was going viral) young local businesspeople and BHS students chanted \"Love, not hate\". There was a large gathering of community members in the Baraboo Civic Center on November 15 to talk about healing and how to create change. On November 16, Milwaukee's Rufus King High School, which includes Jewish and Muslim students, posted a picture of 50 students and about 15 staff giving the American Sign Language sign for \"I love you\" as well as hand signs for peace and hearts. \n\nOn November 19, the first in a three-step program of community meetings called Baraboo Gathers was held by the Baraboo School District, city leaders and community members. Between two and three hundred attended, including some students who were in the photo. School District Administrator Mueller \"acknowledged bullying is a problem in most school districts, including Baraboo, and said leaders are committed to doing better\", and she called for restorative practices. \"While the photo 'as alleged' is an issue of free speech, she said the students involved need to repair the damage they’ve done.\" The second meeting in the series is scheduled for November 29. At that meeting the audience will be invited to comment. \n\nThe photo went viral just two weeks after eleven Jews were killed and seven wounded in an antisemitic mass shooting at Pittsburgh's Tree of Life synagogue, at a time when nationalist and hate speech were rising in the United States, and two years after the Baraboo school district had reported a steep increase in racial harassment complaints.\n"}
{"id": "6849966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6849966", "title": "Big Dig ceiling collapse", "text": "Big Dig ceiling collapse\n\nThe Big Dig ceiling collapse occurred on July 10, 2006, when a concrete ceiling panel and debris weighing and measuring fell in Boston's Fort Point Channel Tunnel (which connects to the Ted Williams Tunnel). The panel fell on a car traveling on the two-lane ramp connecting northbound I-93 to eastbound I-90 in South Boston, killing a passenger and injuring the driver. Investigation and repair of the collapse caused a section of the Big Dig project to be closed for almost a full year, causing chronic traffic backups.\n\nThe east ends of the westbound and eastbound connector tunnels were designed and constructed in the same manner. Both ends of the tunnel were built sooner than the connecting section to allow the D Street bridge above to be constructed sooner. The end sections were not designed to incorporate a hanging ceiling system like that used in the connecting section.\n\nThe collapse of the ceiling structure began with the simultaneous creep-type failure of several anchors embedded in epoxy in the tunnel's roof slab. Each of the panel's intersecting connection points consists of several individual bolts anchored into the roof slab concrete. The failure of a group of anchors set off a chain reaction which caused other adjacent connection groups to creep then fail, dropping of concrete to the roadway below.\n\nNumerous problems with this same system of bolts and epoxy in the Ted Williams Tunnel had been previously revealed in a 1998 (Massachusetts) Office of the Inspector General report. Not only were the bolts too short, but the epoxy used to glue the bolts into the concrete was not up to standard. The state Turnpike Authority and the Federal Highway Administration, citing the ongoing criminal investigation, refused requests received after the accident to release documents relating to the work conducted along the Seaport connector, including:\n\n\nOne year earlier, US House Representative Stephen Lynch also had trouble obtaining records regarding the Big Dig tunnel leaks for the Congress' Committee on Government Oversight.\n\nAfter the ceiling collapse, Attorney General Tom Reilly described the tunnel as a crime scene and issued subpoenas to the companies and individuals responsible for the tunnel construction and testing. Governor Mitt Romney returned from a vacation in New Hampshire to view the condition of the tunnels.\n\nThe Governor ordered connecting roads that lead into the Fort Point Channel Tunnel and several ramps to the westbound section from within the city be closed. These closures caused dramatic overflow congestion throughout the city as motorists sought alternate routes to and from Logan International Airport and several other key arterial routes. Beyond the difficulties posed within the city, the Fort Point Channel Tunnel and Ted Williams Tunnel link the Massachusetts Turnpike and Interstate 93 to Logan, so this also blocked a key inbound link for airport travelers coming from outside the city, forcing them to seek alternate routes like the Callahan Tunnel or follow poorly marked detours that wound through the city, often resulting in additional travel times of one hour or more.\n\nThe legislature approved the governor's plan to assume oversight of the investigation into the collapse (as Romney had only gained office in 2003, long after any decisions about the construction had been made, he was seen as a good choice for an independent investigator), taking responsibility away from the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority, and additionally allocating $20 million for a \"stem to stern\" safety review of the Central Artery system. At the request of all the members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation, the National Transportation Safety Board dispatched a six-member civil engineering team to Boston to inspect the accident scene and determine whether a full-scale investigation was warranted.\n\nSafety inspections following the accident identified 242 potentially dangerous bolt fixtures supporting the ceiling tiles in the Interstate 90 connector tunnel. As problems throughout the tunnels were identified, various sections of roadway were closed and re-opened to make repairs. New concerns about ceiling fans, weighing approximately three tons each, used to circulate air throughout the tunnel system, were also identified.\n\nThe National Transportation Safety Board released a report on the one-year anniversary of the disaster, that attributed the major cause of the collapse to \"epoxy creep\". On August 8, 2007, a Suffolk County Grand Jury indicted epoxy company Powers Fasteners, Inc., on one charge of involuntary manslaughter, with the maximum penalty in Massachusetts being a fine of one thousand dollars.\n\nThe epoxy used in the D Street portal that failed cost $1,287.60. The cost to redesign, inspect, and repair all of the tunnels after the collapse was $54 million.\n\nOn July 13, 2006, the leaders of the state legislature, Senate President Robert Travaglini and House Speaker Sal DiMasi, called upon Turnpike Authority chairman Matthew J. Amorello, who provided oversight of the project, to consider stepping down from his position and accepting a diminished role.\nGovernor Romney and Attorney General Reilly both called for the resignation of Amorello. This stance was supported in editorials in Boston's two major newspapers, the \"Boston Herald\" and \"The Boston Globe\". On July 18, Amorello was presented with a formal list of charges that Romney intended to use to justify Amorello's removal.\n\nAmorello made an unsuccessful effort to ask the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court to postpone the removal hearing before Romney. On July 27, 2006, after the Supreme Judicial Court rejected his request and shortly before the hearing was to have begun, Armorello announced his intention to resign as Chairman of the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority effective August 15, 2006.\n\nMassachusetts Secretary of Transportation John Cogliano also came under fire after he chose to hire Bechtel/Parsons Brinckerhoff, the company that was responsible for overseeing the original construction of the tunnel, to inspect the repairs. The hiring of Bechtel/Parsons Brinckerhoff resulted in an inquiry from the Office of Inspector General for the Department of Transportation. Cogliano admitted that he regretted reusing the firm and the state promised not to hire any Bechtel/Parsons Brinckerhoff employees to work on repairs in the I-90 tunnel.\n\nOn November 27, 2006, departing Attorney General Tom Reilly announced that the state would launch a civil suit over the collapse of the ceiling in the Ted Williams Tunnel. The Commonwealth will be seeking over $150 million from project manager Bechtel/Parsons Brinckerhoff, builder Modern Continental Construction Co. and the manufacturer of the epoxy used to hold the ceiling bolts.\n\nAttorney General Martha Coakley on March 1, 2007 named Paul Ware from Goodwin Procter, a Boston law firm to lead the criminal investigation into whether there is criminal culpability in the Big Dig tunnel collapse. Paul Ware will be appointed as a special assistant attorney general.\n\nOn December 24, 2007, the family of Milena Del Valle (who was killed in the collapse) and Angel Del Valle (who was injured) announced that they had reached a settlement with Powers Fasteners, in which they would be paid $6 million. The Del Valle family stated, \"We are grateful that the Powers family company has done the right thing.\" Powers denied responsibility, but said that the settlement would \"allow the healing process to begin.\" Powers also stated \"We also hope that this will lead others who, unlike Powers, truly were responsible for the accident, to do the same.\" The Del Valle family still has 14 lawsuits pending against other defendants. In September 2008, the Del Valle family announced that they had reached a $28 million settlement, resolving the lawsuits against all 15 companies involved in construction of the tunnel, including the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority.\n\nThere have been other difficulties with the design and construction of the Big Dig project, including numerous leaks, dangerous guardrails, and the threat of heavy lighting fixtures also falling from the ceilings.\n\nThe Georgia DOT found that failure of the same epoxy at fault for the ceiling collapse was also to blame for the 2011 fall of a fenced and lighted covered-walkway structure attached to the south side of the relatively new 17th Street Bridge, which links Atlantic Station to Midtown Atlanta over Interstate 75/85. No injuries occurred in that incident, as the collapse was in the overnight hours, with very little traffic on the freeway.\n\n"}
{"id": "1574472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1574472", "title": "Cliff Hanger (comic strip)", "text": "Cliff Hanger (comic strip)\n\nCliff Hanger is the name of two different 1983 comic strips, one published in the United Kingdom and the other in the United States.\n\nThe British \"Cliff Hanger\" was written and drawn by Jack Edward Oliver. It first appeared in the 25 June 1983 issue of the British comics magazine Buster. \n\nWatching a television show called 'Now Get Out of This' (a parody of Now Get Out of That), Cliff remarks that he thinks he could get out of everything. This is overheard by the Evil Spies, agents of M.E.S.S. (the Mysterious Evil Spies Society). They tell Cliff that he's now a guinea pig in their traps, and if he doesn't survive, they'll know the traps will be good enough to use against secret agents.\n\nFrom then on, the premise of the strip every week would be that Cliff is suddenly transported into a dangerous situation by the spies, using the Atomic Matter Transmitter. Three options would be presented to the readers, who would select one by ticking one of the boxes, and turning to another page to see whether their choice was correct or not. For example, in the first strip, Cliff is stranded on a moving artificial desert island. Just as it's about to hit the shore, the current changes and Cliff is driven back into the shark infested sea. The choices were 'Take off his shoe and use it to paddle the island to the shore', 'Pull out the tree and use it as a raft' and 'Climb the tree'. A and B were incorrect- using the shoe as a paddle simply sent Cliff round in circles, and pulling out the tree revealed it was plugging a hole, causing the island to sink. The correct answer was C, as Cliff's weight caused the tree to bend over onto the shore, lifting Cliff to safety.\n\nThe strip featured several minor background details that would occur in every issue, including a box with a handle, a plaster, the word 'Acme', an arrow with another (backwards facing) arrow inside it, a warthog, the initials 'JEO', a worm, and a sign saying \"Abolish Tuesdays\". A running gag would feature one of the Evil Spies' constant wondering why his counterpart would frequently call him \"Ray\" even though that wasn't his name, when in fact he was simply referring to one of the gadgets (\"Fire the Transporter Ray!\").\nAnother thing of note is that Cliff's jumper often featured the strip number on it, starting with a \"1\" in the first, and going on well into the hundreds at the end. Over the years, several continuous storylines emerged featuring parodies of popular film and television series of the day, including James Bond, the Star Wars Trilogy, Back to the Future and Transformers. The strip ended in 1987, replaced by Vid Kid.\n\nHowever, as Buster moved into the 1990s, the amount of reprints started to dramatically increase, and several old strips began to reappear. Cliff Hanger was one of these, though as J. Edward Oliver was still working for the comic, he was able to turn the originally black and white pages into full colour. With most of the readers unaware that these were reprints, this gave the impression that they were brand new. In February 1998, when the strips started being reprinted for a third time, rather than continue to advertise them as new, the Cliff Hanger Classic strand was started. Here there would be an afterword at the bottom of the strips, written by Jack, featuring factual information like the original issue dates, background details explained, the most popular television programmes of that week, or the top 5 of that week's UK Singles Chart.\n\nBy 1999, virtually the entire comic featured reprints. Because of this, J. Edward Oliver decided to draw one final strip, which appeared in issue 118/99, dated 7–21 July 1999 (the comic had become a fortnightly publication in 1995). Finding the Evil Spies in danger, all three options led to the conclusion that the Evil Spies would never trap Cliff again (if Cliff called the police, the spies would be arrested, if Cliff helped them out, they would stop trapping Cliff as a gesture of thanks, etc.). This issue also featured the final appearance of 'b-mail', the name used at the time for the Letters Page (which Jack also wrote). Cliff's final appearance was in a cameo appearance in the last page of Buster's final issue, which occurred half a year later. Explaining how all the characters ended, and once again drawn by J. Edward Oliver, Cliff was seen mourning the passing of Bernie Banks (the lead character in Memory Banks, another Buster strip) who had apparently forgotten how to breathe. Symbolising that this was indeed the final issue, his jumper carried the word 'END'.\n\nThe American \"Cliff Hanger\" was written by Bruce Jones with artwork by Al Williamson. The title character was a swashbuckling adventurer who crashlands in an unnamed jungle region in the late 1930s and finds himself in a mysterious plot involving a secret research facility. \n\nThe strip originally appeared as a back-up feature in the four issue run of Somerset Holmes, a 1983 thriller comic book also by Jones and Williamson. It has been reprinted in collections of Williamson's artwork.\n"}
{"id": "2446135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2446135", "title": "Commemoration ball", "text": "Commemoration ball\n\nA Commemoration ball is a formal ball held by one of the colleges of the University of Oxford in the 9th week of Trinity Term, the week after the end of the last Full Term of the academic year, which is known as \"Commemoration Week\". Commemoration balls are held by different colleges each year, following a cycle by which each college holds a ball every three years.\n\nCommemoration Week is so known because of the ceremonies in commemoration of the benefactors of the university that are held then, namely the Commemoration Day sermon formerly held (until 2006) on the Sunday, and the Encaenia ceremony (where the annual Creweian Oration in honour of benefactors is given) and garden party on the Wednesday of that week. Commemoration Week was formerly one of two occasions when balls were traditionally held, the other being Eights Week, the 5th week of Trinity term when the Summer Eights rowing races occur. Eights balls are nowadays comparatively rare.\n\nThere is no formal definition of a Commemoration ball, but the usual Oxford convention is to refer only to the larger, triennial balls as Commemoration balls. The dress code is usually white tie. Many other colleges hold smaller events during Commemoration Week that they call summer balls or parties rather than Commemoration balls. These are usually held on an annual or irregular basis, and are usually black tie. Merton College holds a triennial winter ball, of which the next will be in 2019.\n\nIn the past, Commemoration balls were held \"night after night\" by different colleges during Commemoration Week. With many colleges now holding smaller annual summer balls, Commemoration balls are now held by only some of the larger colleges, who still follow the traditional triennial cycle. Oriel College hosts a ball in the first year of the three-year cycle, and until recently Magdalen College also did. However Magdalen College cancelled their ball in 2015 at the last minute downgrading to a smaller affair. Currently, in the second year, there are Commemoration balls held by New College and The Queen's College. In the third year, there are now four colleges with this honour (Worcester College, Christ Church, Trinity College, St. John's College).\n\nThe 2005 Christ Church Commemoration ball was the first to be held by that college for fifteen years because of an incident at the 1990 ball that led to the Governing Body suspending the ball and replacing it with an annual summer party until 2005. Until 1990 the three great Oxford choral foundations of Magdalen College (first year), New College (second year) and Christ Church (third year) held their \"white tie\" Commemoration Balls in consecutive years on a triennial basis, each being widely regarded as the most prestigious ball being held in Oxford in that year, but the 1990 incident at Christ Church upset the tradition as various other colleges claimed Christ Church's (third year) slot, and continue to do so after the Christ Church Ball was reinstated in 2005. The cancellation of Magdalen College's (first year) Commemoration Ball in 2015, and its reinstatement in the \"New College\" (second) year of 2016, completed the break with tradition. \n\nIn 2013, Balliol College held a Commemoration ball to mark the 750th Anniversary of the College's foundation, the first Commemoration Ball at Balliol since 1969. Similarly, the commemoration ball hosted by Worcester College on 27 June 2014 was the highlight of celebrations to mark the college's tercentenary.\n\n\nCommemoration ball organising committees generally seek to secure private performances from leading entertainers; some notable performances are listed below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34161835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34161835", "title": "Comparisons between the Great Recession and the Great Depression", "text": "Comparisons between the Great Recession and the Great Depression\n\nComparisons between the Great Recession and the Great Depression explores the experiences in the United States and the United Kingdom.\n\nOn April 17, 2009, head of the IMF Dominique Strauss-Kahn said that there was a chance that certain countries may not implement the proper policies to avoid feedback mechanisms that could eventually turn the recession into a depression. \"The free-fall in the global economy may be starting to abate, with a recovery emerging in 2010, but this depends crucially on the right policies being adopted today.\" The IMF pointed out that unlike the Great Depression, this recession was synchronized by global integration of markets. Such synchronized recessions were explained to last longer than typical economic downturns and have slower recoveries.\n\nThe chief economist of the IMF, Dr. Olivier Blanchard, stated that the percentage of workers laid off for long stints has been rising with each downturn for decades but the figures have surged this time. \"Long-term unemployment is alarmingly high: in the US, half the unemployed have been out of work for over six months, something we have not seen since the Great Depression.\" The IMF also stated that a link between rising inequality within Western economies and deflating demand may exist. The last time that the wealth gap reached such skewed extremes was in 1928-1929.\n\nAlthough some casual comparisons between the Great Recession and the Great Depression have been made, there remain large differences between the two events. Actually, if the magnitude of initial shocks was the same in both cases, the recovery from the latest one would be earlier. The consensus among economists in March 2009 was that a depression was not likely to occur. UCLA Anderson Forecast director Edward Leamer said on March 25, 2009 that there had not been any major predictions at that time which resembled a second Great Depression: \n\n\"We've frightened consumers to the point where they imagine there is a good prospect of a Great Depression. That certainly is not in the prospect. No reputable forecaster is producing anything like a Great Depression.\"\n\nDifferences explicitly pointed out between the recession and the Great Depression include the facts that over the 79 years between 1929 and 2008, great changes occurred in economic philosophy and policy, the stock market had not fallen as far as it did in 1932 or 1982, the 10-year price-to-earnings ratio of stocks was not as low as in the 1930s or 1980s, inflation-adjusted U.S. housing prices in March 2009 were higher than any time since 1890 (including the housing booms of the 1970s and 1980s), the recession of the early 1930s lasted over three-and-a-half years, and during the 1930s the supply of money (currency plus demand deposits) fell by 25% (where as in 2008 and 2009 the Fed \"has taken an ultraloose credit stance\"). Furthermore, the unemployment rate in 2008 and early 2009 and the rate at which it rose was comparable to most of the recessions occurring after World War II, and was dwarfed by the 25% unemployment rate peak of the Great Depression. However, syndicated columnist and former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury Paul Craig Roberts claimed in a 2012 column that if all discouraged workers were included in U.S. unemployment statistics, the actual unemployment rate would be 22%, comparable to rates during the Great Depression.\n\nNobel Prize–winning economist Paul Krugman predicted a series of depressions in his \"The Return of Depression Economics\" (1999), based on \"failures on the demand side of the economy.\" On January 5, 2009, he wrote that \"preventing depressions isn't that easy after all\" and that \"the economy is still in free fall.\" In March 2009, Krugman explained that a major difference in this situation is that the causes of this financial crisis were from the shadow banking system. \"The crisis hasn't involved problems with deregulated institutions that took new risks... Instead, it involved risks taken by institutions that were never regulated in the first place.\"\n\nOn February 22, 2009, NYU economics professor Nouriel Roubini said that the crisis was the worst since the Great Depression, and that without cooperation between political parties and foreign countries, and if poor fiscal policy decisions (such as support of zombie banks) are pursued, the situation \"could become as bad as the Great Depression.\" On April 27, 2009, Roubini expressed a more upbeat assessment by noting that \"the bottom of the economy [will be seen] toward the beginning or middle of next year.\"\n\nOn April 6, 2009 Vernon L. Smith and Steven Gjerstad offered the hypothesis \"that a financial crisis that originates in consumer debt, especially consumer debt concentrated at the low end of the wealth and income distribution, can be transmitted quickly and forcefully into the financial system. It appears that we're witnessing the second great consumer debt crash, the end of a massive consumption binge.\"\n\nIn his final press conference as president, George W. Bush claimed that in September 2008 his chief economic advisors had said that the economic situation could at some point become worse than the Great Depression.\n\nA tent city in Sacramento, California was described as \"images, hauntingly reminiscent of the iconic photos of the 1930s and the Great Depression\" and \"evocative Depression-era images.\"\n\nThe Austrian School of economics view is that the size of a bust is based, at least in part, on the size of the preceding credit boom. A check of debt levels prior and during the Great Depression shows debt levels prior to the Great Depression at about 200% of GDP, with a rise to about 300% due to massive government intervention to combat the Depression. The debt outstanding metric indicates that the Great Recession was not over by mid-2012 and would be worse than the Great Depression; only the first part of that projection turned out to be true by mid-2014. Current US debt levels are around 400% of GDP and well over the levels seen either before or during the Great Depression. According to economist Irving Fisher, the two dominant factors in a depression are over-indebtness to start with and deflation soon after. Fed policy to prevent deflation at all costs has been greatly influenced by Fisher's work.\n\nOn 10 February 2009, Ed Balls, Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families of the United Kingdom, said that \"I think that this is a financial crisis more extreme and more serious than that of the 1930s and we all remember how the politics of that era were shaped by the economy.\" On 24 January 2009, Edmund Conway, Economics Editor for \"The Daily Telegraph\", had written that \"The plight facing Britain is uncannily similar to the 1930s, since prices of many assets – from shares to house prices – are falling at record rates [in Britain], but the value of the debt against which they are held remains unchanged.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19104883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19104883", "title": "Daily Mail Circuit of Britain air race", "text": "Daily Mail Circuit of Britain air race\n\nThe \"Daily Mail\" Circuit of Britain air race was a British cross-country air race which took place from 1911 until 1914, with prizes donated by the \"Daily Mail\" newspaper on the initiative of its proprietor, Lord Northcliffe. It was one of several races and awards offered by the paper between 1906 and 1925.\n\nThe 1911 race took place on 22 July and was a event with 11 compulsory stops and a circular route starting and finishing at Brooklands in Surrey.\nThe winner was Jean Conneau in a Blériot XI who took 22 hours, 28 minutes to complete the course, an average speed of and received the first prize of £10,000. The runner up was Jules Védrines in a Morane-Borel monoplane with James Valentine, in a Deperdussin, third.\n\nThe 1913 race was for British seaplanes and had a first prize of £5,000. Only one aircraft started the course; it was damaged when landing near Dublin, and did not complete the course.\n\nThe 1914 race, also offering a prize of £5,000, was to have been held between 1 and 15 August. It was cancelled due to the outbreak of the First World War.\n\nThe 1911 Daily Mail Circuit of Britain was a contest for the fastest completion of a course around Great Britain. The proprietors of the Daily Mail offered a £10,000 prize to any aviator to complete an approximately 1,000 miles circuit of Britain in the shortest time. The contest was run by the Royal Aero Club and was held between 22 July 1911 and 5 August 1911. Following the success of the £10,000 competition for the 1910 London to Manchester air race, the editor announced that a further £10,000 prize would be awarded, it would either be between London and Edinburgh and return or London and Paris and return. It was decided that the competition would be a tour round Great Britain and a committee of the Royal Aero Club was formed to set the rules and organize the competition on behalf of the Daily Mail. For an entrance fee of £100 the event was open to all licensed aviators, and as well as the Daily Mail prize a number of smaller prizes were also offered. The circuit was to start and finish at Brooklands, and the competitors had to land at Hendon, Harrogate, Newcastle, Edinburgh, Stirling, Glasgow, Carlisle, Manchester, Bristol, Exeter, Salisbury and Brighton. Four competitors completed the course, the first and winner of the prize was the Frenchman Lieut Jean Louis Conneau, flying under the name of André Beaumont.\n\nThe race began at Brooklands on 22 July 1911 with a short 20 mile section to Hendon Aerodrome, only 21 of the 30 competitors started and 19 headed for Hendon of which 17 arrived.\n\nThe competitors started to depart on the second stage on 24 July 1911 for the 343 miles from Hendon to Edinburgh with two compulsory stops:\n\nTotal distance 383 miles with stops at Stirling, Glasgow, Carlisle, and Manchester.\nFive started from Edinburgh but only four made it to Bristol, they were all to complete the contest.\n\nTotal distance 224 miles with stops at Exeter, Salisbury Plain.\n\nAll competitors had to complete the last 40 miles to Brooklands before 19:30 on 5 August 1911. Beaumont was the first to arrive back on 26 July 1911 - 1 hour 10 minutes before his fellow Frenchman Jules Vedrines - he had travelled 1,010 miles in 22 hours 28 min 18 sec. Valentine, arrived back on 4 August 1911 followed the next day by Cody who was the fourth and the last to arrive at Brooklands on 5 August 1911.\n\n\nThe 1913 race, offering prize of £5,000, was for floatplanes, which had to be of all-British construction. The course, totalling had to be completed within 72 hours, although since no flying was allowed on Sundays this period was in practice a day longer. \nThe race was divided into the following stages:\n\nEntrants included the Cody Waterplane, the Radley-England Waterplane and the Sopwith Circuit of Britain floatplane.\nCody was killed during a test flight of his design on 7 August when his aircraft broke up in flight, and the Sopwith, flown by Harry Hawker with Harry Kauper as passenger, was the only aircraft to start; it retired after being damaged in an emergency landing near Dublin having completed about two-thirds of the course. Hawker was given a prize of £1,000 for his effort.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2193657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2193657", "title": "Darwin International Guitar Festival", "text": "Darwin International Guitar Festival\n\nThe Darwin International Guitar Festival is held once every two years at the Charles Darwin University, Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia. The festival attracts many Australian guitarists including Karin Schaupp, Saffire, and Slava Grigoryan. Many international stars, such as John Williams, also attend.\n\nAustralian composers such as Richard Charlton, Peter Sculthorpe and Nicholas Routley are also features of the festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "42718015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42718015", "title": "DigiTour Media", "text": "DigiTour Media\n\nDigiTour Media is a touring and social media festival production company, known for producing the world's first social media tour. DigiTour events are held in venues such as theaters, amphitheaters, and parking lots or fields upon which the stages and other structures are erected. The tour began as a showcase for social media stars from YouTube, but its roster of performers has now expanded to include Vine, Twitter, and Instagram stars as well as traditional pop music stars.\n\nDigiTour Media produces live events and unique content that features some of the most popular acts on YouTube. DigiFest NYC, a full-day festival property owned by DigiTour, is typically held on the first Saturday of June in New York City. Many of the acts at DigiTour events do not get their music played on the radio yet continually sell out DigiTour's multiple events with their tens of millions of fans.\n\nDigiTour has secured multiple brand sponsorships from companies such as Intel, Google, Sony, and Gibson. On May 15, 2014, the company announced strategic investments from Ryan Seacrest and Advance Publications, parent company of Conde Nast.\n\nDigiTour Media was founded in 2010 by music executive Meridith Valiando Rojas and multi-platinum music producer Christopher Rojas. DigiTour has produced over 70 events as of 2013, including all-day festivals, which feature 40–80 artists, as well as month-long tours.\n\nThe first DigiTour took place in 2011 and was sponsored by YouTube. The 27-city tour began with a multi-camera livestream at the Google Headquarters in Mountainview, California, on April 8, 2011. The 2011 tour's roster of performers had 6 million combined YouTube subscribers and 1 billion combined YouTube views. Pop musician Britney Spears attended the opening night of the tour at the El Rey Theater.\n\nThe second DigiTour took place in 2012 and traveled to 18 cities including Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Orlando, Toronto, and New York City. DigiTour 2012's roster of performers had 10 million combined YouTube subscribers and 2 billion combined YouTube views.\n\nThe first DigiFest took place on June 1, 2013, at Terminal 5 in New York City and was headlined by Pentatonix and Allstar Weekend. The DigiFest roster included over 14 million combined YouTube subscribers and over 3.5 billion YouTube views.\n\nDigiTour 2013 showcased the most popular British YouTube personalities. Over 11,000 fans attended shows in Chicago, Toronto, Philadelphia, and New York.\n\nDigiFest LA took place on December 14, 2013, and was dubbed the largest YouTube music festival by Just Jared. The event featured over 50 performances and was headlined by rapper Hoodie Allen. Teen actors Bella Thorne, Madison Pettis, Blake Michael, and Jake Short also made on-stage appearances, with James Maslow of Big Time Rush and Darren Criss of \"Glee\" in attendance.\n\nNearly 100,000 fans attended DigiTour events in the United States, Canada, and Europe in 2014. The company and Disney Music Group formed in June 2017 RMI Recordings, a new label for \"digital-first\" talent.\n\nNotable DigiTour and DigiFest entertainers include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8813362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8813362", "title": "Dolores Della Penna", "text": "Dolores Della Penna\n\nDolores Della Penna (December 13, 1954 – July 12, 1972) was a school girl from Philadelphia who was tortured, murdered by dismemberment, and beheaded in the Kensington neighborhood in July, 1972.\n\nShortly before midnight on July 11, 1972, Della Penna was abducted from her home in Philadelphia. Witnesses later informed the police that they had seen her beaten and dragged, while she was unconscious, into a car. Della Penna's torso and arms were later located in Jackson Township, New Jersey. Her legs were found in adjacent Manchester Township, New Jersey. Her head was never recovered and her murder remains unsolved.\n\nHer fingertips had been severed from her hands to prevent the police from identifying her. Their reports state that Della Penna was killed by drug dealers who thought that her boyfriend had stolen drugs from them. The crime remains unsolved, and is hotly debated online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36489375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36489375", "title": "Domestic violence in Pakistan", "text": "Domestic violence in Pakistan\n\nDomestic violence in Pakistan is an endemic social and public health problem. According to a study carried out in 2009 by Human Rights Watch, it is estimated that between 20 and 30 percent of women in Pakistan have suffered some form of abuse. An estimated 5000 women are killed per year from domestic violence, with thousands of others maimed or disabled. Women have reported attacks ranging from physical to psychological and sexual abuse from intimate partners. In 1998, of the 1974 reported murders, the majority of victims were killed by family members. A survey carried out by the Thomson Reuters Foundation ranked Pakistan as the third most dangerous country in the world for women, after Afghanistan and the Democratic Republic of Congo; it is followed by India and Somalia. The majority of victims of violence have no legal recourse. Law enforcement authorities do not view domestic violence as a crime and usually refuse to register any cases brought to them. Given the very few women's shelters in the country, victims have limited ability to escape from violent situations.\n\nAs defined by the World Health Organization, domestic violence encompasses physical and psychological distress including sexual coercive acts towards primarily women by a current or former male intimate partner.\n\nThe landmark Domestic Violence (Prevention and Protection) Act passed in 2012 by the Pakistani Senate defines domestic violence as including, “all acts of gender based and other physical or psychological abuse committed by a respondent against women, children or other vulnerable persons…” The definition then further specifies assault, attempt at assault, criminal force, criminal intimidation, emotional, psychological, and verbal abuse, harassment, stalking, sexual abuse, physical abuse, and economic abuse as some of the actions that fall under domestic violence.\n\nAn estimated 5000 women are killed per year from domestic violence, with thousands of others maimed or disabled. Lisa Hajjar, an Associate Professor at the University of California, describes abuse against women in Pakistan as \"endemic in all social spheres\". In an observational study published in the \"Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences\" based on a convenience sample of 218 women in the gynecology wards of three hospitals, 97% of the interviewed women said they had been victims of some form of assault, ranging from verbal abuse or threatened, to being subjected to beatings or non-consensual sex. A study by the United Nations found that 50% of married women have experienced sexual violence and 90% have been psychologically abused. Studies by the Pakistan Nation Women's Division and Zakar et al. confirmed these statistics of high percentages of domestic violence in Pakistani households.\n\nResearch has also shown high rates of domestic violence primarily in rural communities and Afghani refugees living in Pakistan. A cross-sectional survey of 490 randomly selected women from a rural health center in Pakistan of reproductive age reported that 65% of those interviewed had experienced domestic violence. A special report by the United Nations of the state of violence against women in Pakistan reported that Afghani refugees are left out of Pakistani services and of Pakistani statistics. The report noted that violence against women like child abuse and domestic violence is considerably high, however, proper statistics on this population are difficult to obtain.\n\nDowry deaths have been described by the United Nations as a form of domestic violence in Pakistan. Women are often attacked and murdered if their in-laws deem their dowry to have been insufficient. Amongst dowry-related violence, bride burnings, also known as \"stove deaths\", are widely reported. In 1988 a survey showed that 800 women were killed in this manner, in 1989 the number rose to 1100, and in 1990 it stood at 1800 estimated killings. According to the Progressive Women's Association, such attacks are a growing problem and, in 1994 on International Women's Day, announced that various NGOs would join to raise awareness of the issue. Newspapers in Lahore in a six-month period (1997) reported on average 15 attacks a month. Women's eNews reported that 4,000 women had been attacked in this manner in Islamabad's surroundings over an eight-year period, and that the average age range of victims was between 18 and 35, with an estimated 30 percent being pregnant at the time of death. The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan reported that about four women are killed in this manner every day, by either family members or husbands. Shahnaz Bukhari, who runs the Progressive Women's Association in Islamabad, has said of such attacks: \"Either Pakistan is home to possessed stoves which burn only young housewives, and are particularly fond of genitalia, or looking at the frequency with which these incidences occur there is a grim pattern that these women are victims of deliberate murder.\"\n\nAcid attacks in Pakistan came to international attention after the release of a documentary by Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy called \"Saving Face\" (2012). According to Shahnaz Bukhari, the majority of these attacks occur in the summer when acid is used extensively to soak certain seeds to induce germination. Various reasons have been given for such attacks, such as a woman dressing inappropriately or rejecting a proposal of marriage. The first known instance of an acid attack occurred in East Pakistan in 1967. According to the Acid Survivors Foundation, up to 150 attacks occur every year. The foundation reports that the attacks are often the result in an escalation of domestic abuse, and the majority of victims are female.\n\nA recent report noted that one in five homicides in Pakistan are attributed to honour killings. The prevalence of such honour killings that have been reported are around 2,000 killings every four years. Overall, out of all homicides of both men and women in Pakistan, honour killings of women constitute 21%. Moreover, the perpetrator in most honour killings is the husband. One study found as high as 92% of all honour killings are committed by the spouse. The highest occurring reason in spousal honour killings was alleged extramarital affairs. Much of the data has been collected by the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan through newspaper reports, however, it is clear there needs to be more systematic research by a health agency is needed to assess this public health crisis and effectively plan for solutions as many cases go unreported. Another analysis of this research states that a possible explanation of the high rate of honour killings towards married women could be attributed to the generally high statistics of domestic violence in Pakistan.\n\nPsychological abuse generally includes yelling, insulting, controlling behaviors, and threatening. In a study by Zakar et al., of 373 randomly selected married women of reproductive age interviewed in Pakistani hospitals, 60.8% reported as current victims of severe psychological violence with 15% having been victims in the past. The percentage of women going through current psychological violence far surpassed the percentages of women going through current sexual (27.3%) and physical (21.7%) violence. Moreover, more than half of these participants, 54%, reported being currently in a poor state of mental health.\n\nAssociated with poverty is illiteracy and social stigma against domestic violence. Lack of an education due to financial reasons accompanies a lack of awareness about women’s rights. Moreover, because mental health illiteracy is especially widespread in low-income areas, many women to not get appropriate treatment for the after effects of domestic violence.\n\nAnother reason given for abuses is patriarchalism in Pakistani society, which marginalizes women’s role. In some traditional societies, a man is considered to have the right to physically beat his spouse on his wish. According to Rahel Nardos, it is \"the dual constructs of women as the property of men and as the standard-bearers of a family's honour set the stage for culturally sanctioned forms of violence\". In some cases, women perpetuate patriarchalism and domestic abuse especially in regard to mothers-in-law. Many women are expected to be homemakers and to perform key household duties, however, if a woman is not performing her duties by her mother-in-law's standards, the mother-in-law may seek to punish the woman through her son.\n\nIn analysis of data from 3,867 married or previously married women from the 2012 - 2013 Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey, association was found between the intergenerational transfer of spousal violence and cultural views of women. Strikingly, 47% of these women agreed that beating of a spouse was justified if the wife had argued with her husband. Statistics such as this prove that patriarchalism within the Pakistani society has led many Pakistani women to believe that domestic violence is normal or even at times justified. This idea is enforced by a study done of 759 Pakistani women between the ages of 25 and 60 years old in which 27% admitted they had never told anyone of the spousal violence they had endured or were currently enduring.\n\nDefined as marriage before the age of 18 years, child marriage is widespread in Pakistan and linked to spousal violence. Child marriage occurs most often in rural and low-income households where education is minimal. The Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey conducted from 2012 to 2013 reported that 47.5% of currently married women aged 15 to 24 had been married before the age of 18. Moreover, of those child marriages, one-third of those women reported spousal violence.\n\nConsanguineous marriages, or those within blood relations such as first and second cousins, are considered marriages in \"biraderi,\" or brotherhood, within many Pakistani subcultures. Based on reported research, about two-thirds of all Pakistani marriages are within families. Analysis of a Pakistani Health Demographic Survey from 2012 to 2013 showed that women in consanguineous marriages are more likely to face psychological domestic abuse. However, findings in this study also reported the prevalence of domestic violence within the larger Pakistani population as well.\n\nAnother factor given for the rise in domestic violence has been due to increased urbanization. As people move from villages and increasingly live apart from an extended family, assaults are less likely to be prevented by the intervention of family members, who in past times often intervened in domestic conflicts. In particular, women who move cities or areas after marriage away from their respective family are more at risk for domestic violence. These women are left without parental or familial support as the only contacts they have are now limited to their husband and husband's family. Violent spousal relationships are perpetuated by isolation of the victim and lack of social support.\n\nDomestic violence leads to increased risk towards certain health outcomes like major depression, dysthymia, conduct disorder, and drug abuse. Moreover, because women are primary caretakers in Pakistan, children also face increased risk for depression and behavioural problems. Zakar et al. found in their study that of those interviewed (373 women from Pakistani hospitals) including women who had experienced severe domestic violence, 54% reported poor current mental health. Associated with this self-reported statistic of women in a poor state of mental health was also a high prevalence of mental health disorders with anxiety and depression being the most common.\n\nIn particular, physical violence has long-term, negative psychological impacts on women with stigma against mental health serving as an impediment to treatment. At times, physical violence may cause permanent disfiguration of the body causing physical ailments that lead to a variety of psychological disorders like depression. Furthermore, women are often unable to receive treatment for psychological disorders as mental health within the cultural realm of Pakistan is not considered a health matter. Mental health illiteracy leads to treatment of mental health disorders superstitiously or not at all.\n\nAnother study that examined domestic violence and pregnancy among Pakistani women found that 51% of respondents reported experiencing domestic violence in the six months prior to or after pregnancy. The researchers of this study and others have suggested due to the prevalence of domestic violence in pregnant women that domestic violence be screened for during antenatal care.\n\nWomen in domestic violence relationships often have no recourse of escaping due to fear of murder from the perpetrator. A vivid example of this is the practice of \"watta satta\", or bride exchange, whereby a daughter from one family is swapped for a daughter of another in a brother-sister pair. Power dynamics between the families follow a revenge-based model. If a husband is harsh on his wife then the mutual threat exists of the husband's brother-in-law being harsh on his sister. These reciprocal threats leave women in positions with little to no bargaining power. This leaves women in a position where they cannot escape a marriage because of cross bride exchange family entanglement. Adding to the complexity, divorce is also highly stigmatized within the Pakistani culture.\n\nBargaining power of women in domestic violence relationships is also minimal due to residence with the husband's family. Particularly, in rural areas, if a woman in a domestic violence relationship is living with her husband's family, she has little recourse to seek help or escape. Studies on attitudes of domestic violence in Pakistan have shown that though these families in rural areas may wish to help their daughter, it is costly to continuously visit her. In other cases, domestic violence perpetrator families have been shown to taunt or ridicule those seeking justice.\n\nIn 2009 a Domestic Violence Protection bill was proposed by Yasmeen Rehman of the Pakistan People’s Party. It was passed in the National Assembly but subsequently failed to be passed in the second chamber of parliament, the Senate, within the prescribed period of time. The Council of Islamic Ideology objected to the bill, claiming that in its current form it will increase divorces and argued that the bill considered women and children the only victims of domestic violence, ignoring elderly and weak men. The council claimed that the punishments suggested by the bill were already enacted by other laws and suggested lack of action on these laws as the reason for increase in domestic violence. After the passage of Eighteenth constitutional amendment, the matter pertaining to the bill became a provincial issue. It was re-tabled in 2012, but met with a deadlock in parliament because of stiff opposition from the religious right. Representatives of Islamic organizations vowed resistance to the proposed bill, describing it as \"anti-Islamic\" and an attempt to promote \"Western cultural values\" in Pakistan. They asked for the bill to be reviewed before being approved by the parliament. The bill was passed for Islamabad Capital Territory.\n\nIn 1976 the Pakistani government passed legislation on dowry and bridal gifts in an attempt to eliminate the custom but, because of cultural and societal norms combined with government ineffectiveness, such killings over inadequate dowries continue.\n\nIn 1999 the Senate of Pakistan rejected a resolution which would have condemned the practice of murdering women for the sake of family honour. In 2011 the Senate passed the \"Acid Control and Acid Crime Prevention Bill\" to repress acid attacks in the country; the senate also passed the prevention of anti-women practices bill.\n\nOn April 21, 2001, the national government leader Pervez Musharraf declared that honour killings were \"vigorously condemned\" by the government and would be treated as murder. The Ministry of Women Development set up ten crisis centres to help the victims of domestic violence and raise the awareness level of the people on this issue. Particularly in 2004, Pakistan's Criminal Law (Amendment) Act passed that provided legal protection for womenOn April 21, 2001, the national government leader Pervez Musharraf declared that honour killings were \"vigorously condemned\" by the government and would be treated as murder. The Ministry of Women Development set up ten crisis centres to help the victims of domestic violence and raise the awareness level of the people on this issue. Particularly in 2004, Pakistan's Criminal Law (Amendment) Act passed that provided legal protection for women against any offense committed by family members for the sake of honour. However, Pakistan's legal system has done little to uphold this legislation. The National Commission on the Status of Women reports that Pakistan is doing little to bring justice to perpetrators. If the family of the victim forgives the perpetrator, then the perpetrator will be set free despite clear violation of Pakistani law. Oftentimes, families who are caught in an honour killing case come from rural areas where families must work together in a village on the daily to live. When an honour killing occurs, the family of the victim are highly likely to forgive the perpetrator based on what elders of the village advise them to do.\n\nFrom both international and internal funding, there are a variety of NGO's that provide support to women who have endured or are enduring domestic violence. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "58684908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58684908", "title": "El Protector (2017)", "text": "El Protector (2017)\n\nEl Protector (2017) was an annual professional wrestling major event produced by Mexican professional wrestling promotion International Wrestling Revolution Group (IWRG), which took place on February 19, 2017 in Arena Naucalpan, Naucalpan, State of Mexico, Mexico. The 2017 El Protector was the eight annual event produced under that name and the fourth to be held in January. The focal point of the show was the El Protector tag team tournament where eight teams composed of a \"rookie\" and a \"vet\" team up to compete for a trophy.\n\nRookie Diablo Jr. teamed up with veteran Black Terry to win the 2017 El Protector tournament defeating Demonio Infernal and Negro Navarro in the finals. The tournament also saw the teams of Black Dragón and Internacional Pantera, El Hijo de Dos Caras and El Hijo del Alebrije, Herodes Jr. and Imposible, Hip Hop Man and Mr. Electro, Dragón Fly and Villano IV, Alfa and Máscara Año 2000 Jr. participated in the tournament. The show also featured four non-tournament matches.\n\n\"Lucha Libre\" has a tradition for a tournament where a rookie, or \"novato\", would be teamed up with an experienced veteran wrestler for a tag team tournament in the hopes of giving the \"Novato\" a chance to show case their talent and move up the ranks. Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre has held a Torneo Gran Alternativa (\"Great Alternative Tournament\") almost every year since 1994, but the concept predates the creation of the Gran Alternativa. The Mexican professional wrestling company International Wrestling Revolution Group (IWRG; at times referred to as \"Grupo Internacional Revolución\" in Mexico) started their own annual rookie/veteran tournament in 2010. The first two tournaments were called Torneo Relampago de Proyeccion a Nuevas Promesas de la Lucha Libre (Spanish for \"Projecting a new promise lightning tournament\") but would be renamed the El Protector tournament in 2012. The El Protector shows, as well as the majority of the IWRG shows in general, are held in \"Arena Naucalpan\", owned by the promoters of IWRG and their main arena. The 2017 El Protector show was the eight time that IWRG promoted a show around the rookie/veteran tournament.\n\nThe El Protector event featured 11 professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\n\nDuring the fourth match of the night, Relámpago dove out of the ring at Apolo Estrada Jr., who moved out of the way at the last moment which caused Relámpago to crash into the steel barricade. As a result of the impact, Relámpago was unable to return to the ring and was counted out. It's unclear if this was the planned end or if Relámpago hit the guardrail harder than expected, rendering him unable to get back up.\n\nAs a result of winning the 2017 El Protector Diablo Jr. and Black Terry earned a match for the IWRG Intercontinental Tag Team Championship. A week after the tournament Diablo Jr. and Black Terry defeated Chicano and Veneno to win the championship. Their reign as champions lasted for 190 days and included two successful championship defenses until they were defeated by Black Warrior and Warrior Jr. on September 3, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "16876501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16876501", "title": "Emergency Room (art)", "text": "Emergency Room (art)\n\nEmergency Room is an art exhibition format devised by Thierry Geoffroy for artists with desire to engage quickly in the current debate. Artists are invited to contribute with art works that are produced daily in response to ongoing social issues, contributing to a constantly changing exhibition. The format avoids the need for an artist to wait months or years before being able to exhibit their art. Emergency Room exhibitions have been held in a number of locations globally.\n\n\"\"Artists, audience and media have been fighting for weeks in order to get to see and participate in the new and innovating exhibition that with its \"art of the news\" puts the art institution itself to debate. Reuters, The New Yorker and the TV-channel ABC News are some of the leading media that have brought the story about the original exhibition, and at P.S.1 more than a thousand visitors per day have been seeing it…\"\" said Danish newspaper \"Weekendavisen\" in March 2007.\n\nEmergency Rooms are \"carefully prepared environment[s] for hectic bursts of creation\". Emergency Rooms can take place in several places across the world at the same time. When art institutions wish to host the Emergency Room format they are given a license to produce a version of the format.\n\nThe Emergency Room format involves a system which is taught to the participating artists by Emergency Room staff. The system requires the artwork of the previous day to be removed daily (normally around 12.30 p.m.) and replaced by fresh artworks. Geoffroy calls this central element of the process \"The Passage\". The number of artists turning up for the Passage will vary, sometimes with nobody showing up. Other days the news of the day will stimulate responses from the artists and participation in the Passage increases.\n\nEmergency Room can be combined with the 'Delay Museum', a nearby exhibition space where yesterday’s artwork is archived and shown. This museum is no longer contemporary in the sense of the word used by Emergency Room. This delay of opinions and reactions are preserved. Geoffroy describes this as a critical way of thinking about contemporary art, with The Delay Museum becoming a place for studying the aesthetics of the fast moving 'emergency'. It is recorded externally by media coverage and internally usingf blogs, webcasting and artist interviews by the Emergency Room staff.\n\nGeoffroy describes the Emergency Room as a format where artists can \"train their awareness muscle\", encouraging experimentation and artistic daring.\n\nThe Emergency Room events involve large numbers of local and overseas artists. By November 2008 over 150 artists had been involved in the format in a number of locations internationally.\n\nThe format has been activated in:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2879763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2879763", "title": "Frederick C. Bock", "text": "Frederick C. Bock\n\nFrederick C. Bock (January 18, 1918 – August 25, 2000) was a World War II pilot who took part in the atomic bombing of Nagasaki in 1945.\n\nBock attended the University of Chicago and went on to enroll in a graduate course in philosophy.\n\nUpon the entry of the United States into the Second World War Bock enlisted in the Army Air Force, becoming a pilot.\n\nBock flew missions from India to China over the Himalayas, a route known as the hump. He also participated in air raids on Japan flown from China.\n\nOn the Nagasaki Raid Bock flew the B-29 bomber \"The Great Artiste\", which was used for scientific measurements and photography of the effects caused by the nuclear weapon.\n\nA civilian observer was aboard \"The Great Artiste\" named William L. Laurence who was a science writer with the \"New York Times.\" His account of the mission was to be awarded the 1946 Pulitzer Prize.\n\nIn his subsequent book \"Dawn Over Zero\" (Knopf 1946), Laurence describes the scene aboard the B-29;\n\nThe bomber which actually dropped Fat Man was called \"Bockscar\" as it was usually flown by Frederick Bock. The staff was swapped just before the raid and Major Charles Sweeney piloted \"Bockscar\", which flew with \"The Great Artiste\" and another aircraft.\n\nAfter the war Bock returned to Chicago where he earned his PhD in zoology with a specialisation in mathematical statistics and genetics.\n\nWorking in Chicago based research laboratories Dr. Bock created algorithms for solving complex problems.\n\nDr. Bock retired in 1986 from Baxter Travenol Laboratories. It was there he devised a mathematical model for peritoneal dialysis.\n\nA native of Greenville, Michigan, Bock died at his Arizona home in 2000, of cancer.\n"}
{"id": "5887342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5887342", "title": "Golden Checkerboard", "text": "Golden Checkerboard\n\nGolden Checkerboard (1965) is a book by Ed Ainsworth. Its subject matter concerns the mid-20th century economic conditions of the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians of Palm Springs, California, and the history of the 99-year lease law which enabled them to commercially develop tribal owned lands. It focuses on Indio Superior Court Judge Hilton McCabe, who is described as \"The Little White Father of the Indians of Palm Springs\", and recalls the steps taken by McCabe to set up conservatorships and leases that would give the tribe investment opportunities and economic self-sufficiency. The title of the book refers to the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians' reservation checkerboard pattern, originating from land grants to the Southern Pacific Railroad as an incentive to build rail lines through the region, when President Ulysses S. Grant signed an Executive Order granting \"San Bernardino Base and Meridian, Township 4 South, Range 4 East, Section 14\" to the Agua Caliente Indians.\n\nSection 14, which included the warm springs at the center of Palm Springs, and other sections surrounding Palm Springs, were \"owned\" by the Indians, but held \"in trust\" by the federal government; the Indians charged fees for bathing in the springs and picnicking in the canyon. In 1917, Congress passed the Allotment Act (39 Stat. 969, 976) which directed the Secretary of the Interior to divide and distribute the Indian land; Harry E. Wadsworth was appointed as the allotting agent. In 1927, the Secretary instructed Wadsworth to make a new schedule of allotments, which he did for the 24 members of the Band who made written applications. (In fact the allotments were not carried out; Band member Lee Arenas sued the federal government to have the allotments made legal and won his case in the United States Supreme Court.) In December 1944, Secretary of the Interior Oscar Chapman, acting on the advice of Commissioner of Indian Affairs John Collier, disapproved the allotting schedule set up by Wadsworth 17 years earlier.\n\nIn January 1953, Douglas McKay became Secretary of the Interior. Thereafter McKay asked industrialist Floyd B. Odlum (former president of Atlas Corp. and husband of Jacqueline Cochran) to investigate the affairs of the Agua Caliente Indians. The report by Odlum's committee was completed in April 1955 and put into final form in April 1956. Among other things, Odlum's report determined: that the Band consisted of 83 persons, the majority of whom were minors; the value of the Indian land, allotted and unallotted, totaled as much as $12,000,000; and the value of the land could increase with proper development. Odlum also discussed the legal problems related to unequal allotments, taxes on non-productive real estate, the inability to lease land because of a 5-year limit, and conflicting claims of the allottees. The report recommended that the Indian land be placed in a private corporation or trusteeship rather than existing wardship. Odlum's recommendations were not implemented because newly elected Congressman Dalip Singh Saund, who ran against Cochran in a bitter election campaign, blocked proposed legislation. In the meantime, Congress passed Public Law No. 255 in August 1955, which allowed for leases of 50 years.\n\nIn 1959, a landmark decision by the Secretary of the Interior equalized allotted Indian lands, thereby setting the stage for development of Indian lands within the city of Palm Springs. This same legislation, however, recognizing the potential value of Indian lands within the boundaries of a world-famous resort, also called for the appointment of conservators and guardians to \"protect\" Indians and their estates from \"artful and designing persons\" who might otherwise cheat them out of their properties, which could now be legally sold by the individual tribal members who owned them. By declaring Indians as \"incompetent\" (both as children and adults) court-appointed conservators and guardians took control of a majority of Indian estates. A major oversight of the program was the appointment of judges, lawyers, and business people as Indian conservators and guardians—the very people the program sought to protect Indians and their estates from. The program was administered by the Indio Superior Court's Judge Hilton McCabe, subject of \"Golden Checkerboard\". McCabe concurrently acted as a conservator to a number of tribal members and an executor, in addition to his administrative and legal roles.\n\nThe book received favorable reviews from \"Desert Magazine\" and the \"American Bar Association Journal\".\nFollowing a lawsuit by the Indians against the \"distorted, glorifying biography\", the publisher withdrew the book from the market. \n\nWith the ability to control Indian estates, the conservatorship program fostered corruption among the conservators and administrators—a series of Pulitzer Prize (1968) winning \"Riverside Press-Enterprise\" articles authored by journalist George Ringwald exposed such instances of excessive fees, fee-splitting, and other types of questionable conduct. The conservatorship program was officially ended in 1968 after the Secretary of the Interior's Palm Springs Task Force similarly exposed it as fraudulent and corrupt.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20448910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20448910", "title": "Granada War", "text": "Granada War\n\nThe Granada War () was a series of military campaigns between 1482 and 1491, during the reign of the Catholic Monarchs (\"los Reyes Católicos\") Isabella I of Castile and Ferdinand II of Aragon, against the Nasrid dynasty's Emirate of Granada. It ended with the defeat of Granada and its annexation by Castile, ending all Islamic rule on the Iberian peninsula (al-Andalus).\n\nThe ten-year war was not a continuous effort but a series of seasonal campaigns launched in spring and broken off in winter. The Granadans were crippled by internal conflict and civil war, while the Christians were generally unified. The Granadans were also bled economically by Castile, with the tribute (Spanish: \"paria\") they had to pay to avoid being attacked and conquered. The war also saw the effective use of artillery by the Christians to rapidly conquer towns that would otherwise have required a long siege. On January 2, 1492, Muhammad XII of Granada (King Boabdil) surrendered the Emirate of Granada, the city of Granada, and the Alhambra palace to the Castilian forces.\n\nThe war was a joint project between Isabella's Crown of Castile and Ferdinand's Crown of Aragon. The bulk of the troops and funds for the war came from Castile, and Granada was annexed into Castile's lands. The Crown of Aragon was less important: apart from the presence of King Ferdinand himself, Aragon provided naval collaboration, guns, and some financial loans. Aristocrats were offered the allure of new lands, while Ferdinand and Isabella centralized and consolidated power. The aftermath of the war ended \"convivencia\" (\"live and let live\") between religions In the Iberian peninsula: the Jews were forced to convert to Christianity or be exiled in 1492, and by 1501, all of Granada's Muslims were obliged to convert to Christianity, become slaves, or be exiled; by 1526 this prohibition spread to the rest of Spain. \"New Christians\" (\"conversos\") came to be accused of crypto-Islam and crypto-Judaism. Spain would go on to model its national aspirations as the guardian of Christianity and Catholicism. The fall of the Alhambra is still celebrated every year by the City Council of Granada, and the Granada War is considered in traditional Spanish historiography as the final war of the Reconquista. At the same time, and uniquely in the \"Reconquista\", the Granada War is not called \"the reconquest of Granada\" but rather \"the conquest of Granada\". Granada in its current form had not been Christian before the Reconquista; however the corresponding region was held by the Christian Visigothic Kingdom prior to the 8th century Umayyad conquest of Hispania.\n\nThe Emirate of Granada had been the last Muslim state in Iberia for more than two centuries by the time of the Granada War. The other remnant al-Andalus states (the \"taifas\") of the once powerful Caliphate of Córdoba had long been conquered by the Christians. Pessimism for Granada's future existed before its ultimate fall; in 1400, Ibn Hudayl wrote \"Is Granada not enclosed between a violent sea and an enemy terrible in arms, both of which press on its people day and night?\" Still, Granada was wealthy and powerful, and the Christian kingdoms were divided and fought amongst themselves. Granada's problems began to worsen after Emir Yusuf III's death in 1417. Succession struggles ensured that Granada was in an almost constant low-level civil war. Clan loyalties were stronger than allegiance to the Emir, making consolidation of power difficult. Often, the only territory the Emir really controlled was the city of Granada. At times, the emir did not even control all the city, but rather one rival emir would control the Alhambra, and another the Albayzín, the most important district of Granada.\n\nThis internal fighting greatly weakened the state. The economy declined, with Granada's once world-famous porcelain manufacture disrupted and challenged by the Christian town of Manises near Valencia, in Aragon. Despite the weakening economy, taxes were still imposed at their earlier high rates to support Granada's extensive defenses and large army. Ordinary Granadans paid triple the taxes of (non-tax-exempt) Castilians. The heavy taxes that Emir Abu-l-Hasan Ali imposed contributed greatly to his unpopularity. These taxes did at least support a respected army; Hasan was successful in putting down Christian revolts in his lands, and some observers estimated he could muster as many as 7,000 horsemen.\n\nThe frontier between Granada and the Castilian lands of Andalusia was in a constant state of flux, \"neither in peace nor in war.\" Raids across the border were common, as were intermixing alliances between local nobles on both sides of the frontier. Relations were governed by occasional truces and demands for tribute should one side have been seen to overstep their bounds. Neither country's central government intervened or controlled the warfare much.\n\nKing Henry IV of Castile died in December 1474, setting off the War of the Castilian Succession between Henry's daughter Joanna la Beltraneja and Henry's half-sister Isabella. The war raged from 1475–1479, setting Isabella's supporters and the Crown of Aragon against Joanna's supporters, Portugal, and France. During this time, the frontier with Granada was practically ignored; the Castilians did not even bother to ask for or obtain reparation for a raid in 1477. Truces were agreed upon in 1475, 1476, and 1478. In 1479, the Succession War concluded with Isabella victorious. As Isabella had married Ferdinand of Aragon in 1469, this meant that the two powerful kingdoms of Castile and Aragon would stand united, free from inter-Christian war which had helped Granada survive.\n\nThe truce of 1478 was still theoretically in effect when Granada launched a surprise attack against Zahara in December 1481, as part of a reprisal for a Christian raid. The town fell, and the population was enslaved. This attack proved to be a great provocation, and factions in favor of war in Andalusia used it to rally support for a counterstrike, quickly moving to take credit for it, and backed a wider war. The seizure of Alhama and its subsequent royal endorsement is usually said to be the formal beginning of the Granada War. Abu Hasan attempted to retake Alhama by siege in March but was unsuccessful. Reinforcements from the rest of Castile and Aragon averted the possibility of retaking Alhama in April 1482; King Ferdinand formally took command at Alhama on May 14, 1482.\n\nThe Christians next tried to besiege Loja but failed to take the town. This setback was balanced by a twist that would prove to aid them greatly: on the same day that Loja was relieved, Abu Hasan's son, Abu Abdallah or Boabdil, rebelled and styled himself Emir Muhammad XII. The war continued into 1483. Abu Hasan's brother, al-Zagal, defeated a large Christian raiding force in the hills of the Axarquia east of Málaga. However, at Lucena the Christians were able to defeat and capture King Boabdil. Ferdinand and Isabella had previously not been intent on conquering all of Granada. With the capture of King Boabdil, however, Ferdinand decided to use him to conquer Granada entirely. In a letter written in August 1483, Ferdinand wrote \"To put Granada in division and destroy it We have decided to free him... He [Boabdil] has to make war on his father.\" With Boabdil's release as a pseudo-Christian ally, the Granadan civil war continued. A Granadan chronicler commented that Boabdil's capture was \"the cause of the fatherland's destruction.\"\n\nIn 1485, the fortunes of the Granadan internal conflict shifted yet again. Boabdil was expelled from the Albayzín, his base of power, by Hasan's brother al-Zagal. Al-Zagal also took command of the nation, dethroning his aging brother, who died shortly thereafter. Boabdil was obliged to flee to Ferdinand and Isabella's protection. The continuing division within the Muslim ranks and the cunning of the Marquis of Cádiz allowed the western reaches of Granada to be seized with unusual speed in 1485. Ronda fell to him after fifteen days, thanks to his negotiations with the city's leaders. Ronda's fall allowed Marbella, a base of the Granadan fleet, to come into Christian hands next.\n\nBoabdil was soon released from Christian protection to resume his bid for control of Granada. For the next three years, he acted as one of Ferdinand and Isabella's vassals. He offered the promise of limited independence for Granada and peace with the Christians to the citizenry; from the Catholic Monarchs, he extracted the title of Duke for whatever cities he could control.\n\nMálaga, the chief seaport of Granada, was the main objective of the Castilian forces in 1487. Emir al-Zagal was slow to march to attempt to relieve the siege and was unable to harass the Christian armies safely because of the ongoing civil war; even after he left the city to come to the aid of Málaga, he was forced to leave troops in the Alhambra to defend against Boabdil and his followers.\n\nThe first main city to be attacked, Vélez-Málaga, capitulated on 27 April 1487, with local supporters of Boabdil directly aiding the Christian besiegers. Málaga held out during an extended siege that lasted from 7 May 1487 until 18 August 1487; its commander preferred death to surrender, and the African garrison and Christian renegades (converts to Islam) fought tenaciously, fearing the consequences of defeat. Near the end, the notables of Málaga finally offered a surrender, but Ferdindad refused, as generous terms had already been offered twice. When the city finally fell, Ferdinand punished almost all the inhabitants for their stubborn resistance with slavery, while renegades were burned alive or pierced by reeds. The Jews of Malaga, however, were spared, as Castilian Jews ransomed them from slavery.\n\nHistorian William Prescott considered the fall of Málaga the most important part of the war; as the chief port of Granada, Granada could not reasonably continue on as an independent state without it.\n\nAl-Zagal lost prestige from the fall of Málaga, and Boabdil took over all of the city of Granada in 1487; he additionally controlled the northeast of the country with Vélez-Rubio, Vélez-Blanco, and Vera. Al-Zagal still controlled Baza, Guadix, and Almería. Boabdil took no action as the Christian forces took some of his land, perhaps assuming it would shortly be returned to him.\n\nIn 1489, the Christian forces began a painfully long siege of Baza, the most important stronghold remaining to al-Zagal. Baza was highly defensible as it required the Christians to split their armies, and artillery was of little use against it. Supplying the army caused a huge budget shortfall for the Castilians. Occasional threats of deprivation of office were necessary to keep the army in the field, and Isabella came personally to the siege to help maintain the morale of both the nobles and the soldiers. After six months, al-Zagal surrendered, despite his garrison still being largely unharmed; he had become convinced that the Christians were serious about maintaining the siege as long as it would take, and further resistance was useless without the hope of relief, of which there was no sign. Baza was granted generous surrender terms, unlike Málaga.\n\nWith the fall of Baza and the capture of al-Zagal in 1490, it seemed as if the war was over; Ferdinand and Isabella believed this was the case. However, Boabdil was unhappy with the rewards for his alliance with Ferdinand and Isabella, possibly because lands that had been promised to him were being administered by Castile. He broke off his vassalage and rebelled against the Catholic Monarchs, despite holding only the city of Granada and the Alpujarras Mountains. It was clear that such a position was untenable in the long term, so Boabdil sent out desperate requests for external aid. The Sultan of Egypt mildly rebuked Ferdinand for the Granada War, but the Mamluks that ruled Egypt were in a near constant war with the Ottoman Turks. As Castile and Aragon were fellow enemies of the Turks, the Sultan had no desire to break their alliance against the Turks. Boabdil also requested aid from the Kingdom of Fez (modern Morocco), but no reply is recorded by history. North Africa continued to sell Castile wheat throughout the war and valued maintaining good trade relations. In any case, the Granadans no longer controlled any coastline from where to receive overseas aid. No help would be forthcoming for Granada.\nAn eight-month siege of Granada began in April 1491. The situation for the defenders grew progressively dire, as their forces for interfering with the siege dwindled and advisers schemed against each other. Bribery of important officials was rampant, and at least one of the chief advisers to Boabdil seems to have been working for Castile the entire time. After the Battle of Granada a provisional surrender, the Treaty of Granada, was signed on November 25, 1491, which granted two months to the city. The reason for the long delay was not so much intransigence on either side, but rather the inability of the Granadan government to coordinate amongst itself in the midst of the disorder and tumult that gripped the city. After the terms, which proved rather generous to the Muslims, were negotiated, the city capitulated on January 2, 1492. The besieging Christians sneaked troops into the Alhambra that day in case resistance materialized, which it did not. Granada's resistance had come to its end.\n\nThe most notable facet of the Granada War was the power of bombards and cannons to greatly shorten the many sieges of the war. The Castilians and Aragonese started the war with only a few artillery pieces, but Ferdinand had access to French and Burgundian experts from his recent wars, and the Christians aggressively increased their artillery forces. The Muslims, however, lagged far behind in their use of artillery, generally only using the occasional captured Christian piece. The historian Weston F. Cook Jr. wrote \"Gunpowder firepower and artillery siege operations won the Granadan war, and other factors in the Spanish victory were actually secondary and derivative.\" By 1495, Castile and Aragon controlled 179 pieces of artillery total, a vast increase from the paltry numbers seen in the War of the Castilian Succession.\n\nPrimitive arquebuses also saw use in the war, though only to a small degree. Heavy cavalry knights were a much smaller factor in the Granada War than seen in earlier warfare. Light cavalry jinetes took on a more prominent role instead. The open-field battles in which cavalry were the most important were rare; the Granadans, badly outnumbered, generally avoided such battles. The Castilians also employed a large number of supporting men; a huge force of workers were mustered in 1483 to destroy crops and pillage the countryside rather than engage directly in battle. Coordination and logistics was difficult given the mountainous terrain, but the Christians diligently built a series of roads through the mountains to deliver food and supplies to their troops.\n\nPolitically, many nobles insisted on controlling their own forces, but Ferdinand and Isabella were still able to exercise a large degree of control in directing the army as a whole. The Granadans, meanwhile, were beset with civil war, preventing the establishment of a unified command. The Christian army was almost completely Castilian; Aragonese and foreign mercenary participation was minimal. Of the Castilian army, Andalusia contributed far more troops than the other territories, with much of its population conscripted into the war. The nobility provided the majority of the expensive cavalry.\n\nConcerning the real strength of the armies involved, according to original sources the Castilian armies reached between 50,000 and 70,000 soldiers the years of the greatest military effort (1482, 83, 86, 87, 89 and 91), or 10,000 to 29,000 in the quieter ones (1484, 85, 88 and 90), strength which is accepted by modern scholars as Ladero Quesada. Nevertheless, according to García de Gabiola, to keep, pay and feed armies of such strength were beyond the resources of the recently birthed modern states. For the campaigns in Italy (1494–1503) the Spanish armies were of 5,000, 9,000 or 15,000 men maximum, so it is rather surprising the numbers recorded 5–10 years before for Granada. If we take into account the revenues of Castile during the period (130 to some 200 millions of maravedies per year) it is hardly difficult that Castile could have organized more than 8,000 to 20,000 soldiers. In fact, Ladero Quesada register the number of grain loads contracted by Castile in several years and García de Gabiola has calculated the number of soldiers that could have been fed through these grain loads, and his conclusions are 12,000 men for 1482 (siege of Loja); 8,000 men for 1483 and 1484 (Granada fields sacking); 10,000 men in 1485 (Ronda siege); 10–12,000 soldiers in 1486 (2nd Loja siege); 12,000 for 1487 (Malaga siege); 10–12,000 in 1488 (1st Baza siege); 20,000 soldiers in 1489 (2nd Baza siege, the greatest grain loads contracted, that also coincides with the largest revenue of Castile during the campaign, some 200 millions); and 10–12,000 men for 1490–91 (final siege of Granada). A 20% of them should be cavalry.\n\nIn relation to Muslim armies, according to García de Gabiola, the strengths mentioned by the sources (15,000 to 50,000 infantry, or 4,500–7,000 cavalry) should also be discarded. More plausible strengths mentuioned are the 3,000 horses (1482), 1,000 to 1,500 (1483, 1485 and 1487) or even 3-400 riders (1489 and 1491). Concerning the infantry, De Miguel Mora states that a Muslim soldier captured by the Castilians during the siege of Baza confessed that the real infantry strength of the garrison was 4,000 men and not 15,000. So, the Muslim armies could not exceed some 4,000 infantry. At the end of the war the ratio was 2 or 3-to-1 in favor of the Castilian armies.\n\nThe Granada War would prove to be valuable training for the Italian Wars, where the Castilian armies and tactics such as the \"tercio\" would acquit themselves well.\n\nThe surrender of Granada was seen as a great blow to Islam and a triumph of Christianity. Other Christian states offered their sincere congratulations to Ferdinand and Isabella, while Islamic writers reacted with despair. In Castile and Aragon, celebrations and bullfights were held. People rejoiced in the streets.\n\nThe treaty's terms for Granada's surrender were quite generous to the Muslims, considering how little they had left to bargain with. They were similar to the terms offered to towns which surrendered earlier, when the outcome of the war was in doubt. For three years, Muslims could emigrate and return freely. They were allowed to keep weapons, though not firearms, a provision that however was to be annulled a month later. No one would be forced to change religion, not even former Christians who had converted to Islam. Boabdil was offered money and the rulership of a small principality in the mountainous Alpujarras, an area that would have been difficult to control in any case. At first, most of conquered Granada was treated respectfully and was therefore predominantly stable for seven years, though the Alhambra Decree of 1492 expelled the Jews that were not converso Marranos.\n\nKing Boabdil soon found his position intolerable. He left for Morocco in October 1493, where he would die some forty years later. Eventually, Castile started to revoke some of the more tolerant attributes of the treaty. This initiative was led by Archbishop Cisneros, who ordered mass conversions, the burning of valuable Arabic manuscripts and other measures detrimental to the Muslims (and Jews).\n\nThis sparked a revolt that ended in many Muslims being forced to choose between baptism, exile, or execution. Tensions from then onward would remain high, and Castile was obliged to maintain a large military force in Granada to deter future revolts. Isabella also strengthened the Spanish Inquisition, and Ferdinand brought the Inquisition to Aragon where previously it had not held power.\n\nCastile was the main beneficiary of the war, as it had also spent by far the majority of the money and manpower to prosecute it, and completely annexed Granada. The conquest of Granada meant little for Aragon's strategic position, but it did help secure Castilian support in Italy and France, where Aragon's interests lay.\n\nIncreasing oppression of the Moors—now known as Moriscos or \"New Christians\"—led to the Rebellion of the Alpujarras (1568–71). After the defeat of the Moors, which was not easy, almost all the Moriscos of the former Kingdom of Granada were exiled to other parts of Spain.\n\nAn entire genre, \"romances fronterizos\", developed around stories of the war and the battles on the Granadan frontier which reached their culmination in Granada's fall. Ginés Pérez de Hita wrote an early example of historical fiction, \"Guerras civiles de Granada\", a romantic account of the war that emphasized chivalry and heroism on both sides. A number of stories and songs appear to have been sponsored by the royal government to help steel morale for the long struggle; \"Sobre Baza\" was a poem written in 1479 encouraging persistence in the long siege. The song \"Setenil, ay Setenil\", written in 1484, hoped that Ferdinand would conquer \"as far as Jerusalem.\" The song \"Una sañosa porfía\" by Juan del Encina puts the depiction of the war in the lips of King Boabdil himself. English playwright John Dryden wrote a heroic drama \"The Conquest of Granada\", published in 1672, which focuses on a romantic love triangle and clashing loyalties in two feuding Granadan factions, leaving the besieging Castilians in the background.\n\nThe Día de la Toma de Granada is a civic and religious festival held each year in Granada on the anniversary of the city's conquest, January 2.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43413245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43413245", "title": "Harry Whitlohn", "text": "Harry Whitlohn\n\nSir Harry Whitlohn was a fictitious character who appeared as a \"castaway\" on the BBC Radio programme \"Desert Island Discs\" on 1 April 1963 - April Fools' Day.\n\nHe was variously presented as a \"man of affairs, musician, mountaineer, and mystic\", an \"88-year-old mountaineer, mystic and spy\" and \"the only man living who had collaborated with Brahms\".\n"}
{"id": "38718497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38718497", "title": "IMSA GT3 Cup Challenge Canada", "text": "IMSA GT3 Cup Challenge Canada\n\nThe Ultra 94 Porsche GT3 Cup Challenge Canada by Yokohama is a one-make racing series based in Canada utilizing Porsche 911 GT3s.\n\nThe Ultra 94 GT3 Cup Challenge Canada by Yokohama features semi-professional drivers racing head to head in one of the largest single-make series in North America. The multi-class structure of the series teaches drivers essential skills for an eventual career in Porsche Supercup or the American Le Mans Series.\n\nThe series is divided into two classes; the Platinum Cup, featuring the more powerful Porsche 911 GT3 Cup 991.2 cars, and the Gold Cup, which includes the older 991.1 model. Both classes race on Yokohama racing tires.\n\nThe series is sanctioned by the International Motor Sports Association, and is a development series to the WeatherTech SportsCar Championship. Randy Hembrey was the Race Director from 2013-2014, followed by Kyle Novak. Starting in 2018, the series Race Director is John Maesky.\n"}
{"id": "52268575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52268575", "title": "John F. Colburn", "text": "John F. Colburn\n\nJohn Francis Colburn (September 30, 1859 – March 16, 1920) was a businessman and politician of the Kingdom of Hawaii. He served as the last Minister of the Interior of Queen Liliuokalani. Even though he was part Hawaiian ancestry on his maternal side, Colburn was a key figure in the overthrow of the Hawaiian monarchy and was a proponent of annexation to the United States. Colburn was the treasurer of the estate of Queen Kapiolani.\n\nHe was born in Honolulu, the youngest of three children of auctioneer and local fire warden John F. Colburn and Elizabeth Maughan, descended from Don Francisco de Paula Marín and one of his Hawaiian wives. The elder Colburn was a naturalized citizen of Hawaii who could trace his family back to the Siege of Boston at the 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill; when he died in 1861, the younger Colburn was only two years old. Elizabeth Maughan died May 22, 1889.\n\nEarly in 1892, Colburn ran for a position on the Road Board, and came in ninth in a field of thirteen candidates. Soon afterwards, however, Queen Liliuokalani appointed him to the Board of Health. On January 13, 1893, she appointed him to the Ministry of the Interior to the final Parker Cabinet with Samuel Parker, William H. Cornwell and Arthur P. Peterson, after her previous cabinet was voted out by the legislature of the kingdom. She had chosen these men specifically to support her plan of promulgating a new constitution while the legislature was not in session.\n\nPublisher and philanthropist Thurston Twigg-Smith, the grandson of annexation leader Lorrin A. Thurston, made the case that Colburn was part of a royal inner cabal of the queen's own cabinet ministers who worked to oust the monarchy. She attempted to promulgate a new constitution, but Colburn and the rest of the cabinet were either opposed to or reluctant to sign the new constitution. Their opposition was one of the causes which ultimately led to her overthrow.\n\nThe Committee of Safety was being formed on January 14 and was in the process of drawing up a petition for 700–800 gathered opposition participants, when Colburn and Peterson arrived, joined at some point by Cornwell and Parker. Speaking before the large crowd, Colburn revealed the details of a meeting the ministers had just had with the queen to discuss the proposed constitution, rousing the crowd to prepare for action. After an hours-long meeting to digest the information presented by Colburn, the Committee of Safety headed by Thurston joined with the ministers in defying the plans for a new constitution, believing there was no alternative but to remove her from power. The cabinet ministers were all present during the overnight session and fully briefed on the committee's plan of action by the following morning, January 15.\n\nLiliuokalani was deposed by the Committee of Safety on January 17 and replaced by the Provisional Government, who also removed Colburn and the rest of the cabinet. Simultaneously, the \"USS Boston\" was in Honolulu Harbor, and United States Minister John L. Stevens brought the marines ashore, ostensibly to protect American assets, but what has historically been viewed as part of a wider conspiracy to seize the Hawaiian Islands. A week later, Colburn resigned from the Board of Health rather than sign a loyalty oath to the provisional government.\n\nIn February 1893, Colburn wrote a letter to his uncle-in-law J. H. Ganz in Missouri detailing the events of the overthrow; Ganz in turn forwarded the letter to President Benjamin Harrison, with a cover letter of his own. The two missives together were reprinted in numerous newspapers in the United States. Grover Cleveland succeeded Harrison as president on March 4, and dispatched Congressman James Henderson Blount to investigate the events, and the resulting report concluded that Stevens had acted in coordination with the conspirators.\n\nIn spite of the role he played in the overthrow, in October 1893 Colburn penned a letter to Celso Caesar Moreno, Kalakaua's former Prime Minister of Hawaii, asking for restoration of the monarchy and indemnity for the royalists. A year later, he petitioned the Republic of Hawaii for his unpaid four days of salary before the overthrow. After Liliuokalani abdicated on January 24, 1895, Colburn became temporary chairman of Hawaiians for Annexation.\n\nUpon the death of Queen Kapiolani on June 24, 1899, Prince David Kawānanakoa and Prince Jonah Kūhiō Kalanianaʻole were appointed administrators of her estate. With the formation of Kapiolani Estate Limited, Kawānanakoa was elected as president, Kūhiō as vice president, and Colburn as treasurer. Morris Kahai Keohokalole was elected as the secretary and auditor. A dispute between Kuhio and Colburn in 1916 led to Colburn's resigning from his position with the estate.\n\nPrior to his political career, Colburn served as the company auditor for the Kona Coffee and Fruit Co. Ltd., and imported and sold hay and grain. After the overthrow of the monarchy, he ran a restaurant and had success as an oyster farmer.\n\nOn December 4, 1890, Colburn married Julia Naoho (1859–1916), a relative of Samuel Kamakau. He had nine children with her and adopted the five children she had with his first husband Charles Long, including Territory of Hawaii legislators Carlos A. Long and Elia A. C. Long. She preceded him in death on March 23, 1916.\n\nHis older brother Marcus Rexford Colburn died March 20, 1901, of a prolonged illness. The eldest of the Colburn siblings, sister Sarah (Mrs. Gilbert) Parmenter, died in 1903 from a gunshot wound to the head, inflicted by her former son-in-law E. M. Jones during a family dispute in which her daughter was murdered.\n\nColburn died at his home in Honolulu, on March 16, 1920, at the age of sixty. He was buried at the Oahu Cemetery in Honolulu.\n"}
{"id": "33610160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33610160", "title": "List of surfing events", "text": "List of surfing events\n\nThis is an incomplete list of surfing events and competitions:\n"}
{"id": "16718106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16718106", "title": "Little Ships of Dunkirk", "text": "Little Ships of Dunkirk\n\nThe Little Ships of Dunkirk were about 850 private boats that sailed from Ramsgate in England to Dunkirk in France between 26 May and 4 June 1940 as part of Operation Dynamo, helping to rescue more than 336,000 British and French soldiers who were trapped on the beaches at Dunkirk during the Second World War.\n\nThe situation of the troops, who had been cut off from their advance into France by a pincer movement from the German army, was regarded by the British prime minister Winston Churchill as the greatest military defeat for centuries; it appeared likely to cost Britain the war, as the majority of the British Expeditionary Force was trapped, leaving the country vulnerable to invasion by Germany. Because of the shallow waters, British destroyers were unable to approach the beaches, and soldiers were having to wade out to the boats, many of them waiting hours shoulder deep in water.\n\nOn 27 May, the small-craft section of the British Ministry of Shipping telephoned boat builders around the coast, asking them to collect all boats with \"shallow draft\" that could navigate the shallow waters. Attention was directed to the pleasure boats, private yachts and launches moored on the River Thames and along the south and east coasts. Some of them were taken with the owners' permission – and with the owners insisting they would sail them – while others were requisitioned by the government with no time for the owners to be contacted. The boats were checked to make sure they were seaworthy, fuelled, and taken to Ramsgate to set sail for Dunkirk. They were manned by Naval Officers, Ratings and experienced volunteers. Very few owners manned their own vessels, apart from fishermen and one or two others.\n\nWhen they reached France, some of the boats acted as shuttles between the beaches and the destroyers, ferrying soldiers to the warships. Others carried hundreds of soldiers each back to Ramsgate, protected by the Royal Air Force from the attacks of the Luftwaffe.\n\nAccording to the Association of Dunkirk Little Ships, the term \"Little Ship\" applies to all craft that were originally privately owned and includes commercial vessels such as barges, fishing vessels and pleasure steamers; the Association does include some ex-Service vessels, which are now privately owned, and ex-lifeboats.\n\n\nSee also individual stations for more information in many cases.\n\nThirteen Thames sailing barges made the crossing, six from R & W Paul Ltd, grain and agricultural merchants of Harwich.\n\nAt the outbreak of war, 10 of the 16 vessels in the fleet of the Isle of Man Steam Packet Company were requisitioned. Four were lost.\n\nEight of the company's ships took part in the Dunkirk evacuation. \"Mona’s Isle\" was the first to leave Dover, and the first vessel to complete a round trip. By the end of operations, the fleet had rescued a total of 24,699, 1 in 14 of those evacuated from Dunkirk.\n\nWhilst the evacuation is widely regarded as the Isle of Man Steam Packet Company's \"finest hour\", it also saw its blackest day. Three of its ships were lost in one day, 29 May 1940.\n\nThirty-nine Dutch coasters had escaped the occupation of the Netherlands by the Germans on 10 May 1940 and were asked by the Dutch shipping bureau in London or by the Royal Navy to assist. The Dutch coasters, able to approach the beaches very closely due to their flat bottoms, rescued 22,698 men in total.\n\nThe , a ship of 300 tons dwt built in 1934 in the province of Groningen, saved 2,542 men between 28 and 31 May 1940 under Captain D. Buining, the most men saved amongst the Dutch coasters. The vessel had already saved the crew of the British coaster on 30 January 1940. Other Dutch coasters that saved more than 1,000 men each were:\n\nOf these ships, seven were lost at Dunkirk or during the evacuation nearer the British coast.\n\nThe Belgian Army, commanded by King Leopold III, had surrendered to the Germans on 28 May. However, numerous ships from the fishing fleet and small \"Corps de Marine\" were involved in Operation Dynamo. In total, 65 Belgian ships participated, including 54 fishing boats, 4 \"Corps de Marine\" units, 4 tugs and 2 patrol vessels. The Belgian fishing fleet itself transported 4,300 British and French soldiers to the English coast.\n\nAmong the notable Belgian ships to participate in the evacuation were:\n\n\nAn Irish Marine and Coastwatching Service Motor Torpedo Boat (MTB) made two separate trips to rescue allied soldiers during the Dunkirk evacuation.\n\nIn nine days, 192,226 British and 139,000 French soldiers – more than 331,000 total – were rescued by the 700 little ships and around 220 warships. The rescue operation turned a military disaster into a story of heroism which served to raise the morale of the British.\n\nIt was in describing the success of the operation to the House of Commons on 4 June 1940 that Churchill made his famous \"we shall fight on the beaches\" speech:\n\nWe shall go on to the end, we shall fight in France, we shall fight on the seas and oceans, we shall fight with growing confidence and growing strength in the air, we shall defend our Island, whatever the cost may be, we shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never surrender ...\n\nThe phrase \"Dunkirk spirit\" is still used to describe courage and solidarity in adversity.\n\nThe Association of Dunkirk Little Ships is an association for owners of Dunkirk Little Ships, founded in 1965. The Association organises a memorial crossing of Little Ships to Dunkirk every five years, escorted by the Royal Navy. Its flag is the St George's Cross defaced with the arms of Dunkirk flown from the jack staff, known as the Dunkirk jack.\n\nThe Dunkirk Little Ships Restoration Trust is a registered charity established in 1993 to preserve and restore Dunkirk Little Ships. Its collection includes the steam tug ST \"Challenge\", a vessel in the National Historic Fleet.\n\nAt least twelve actual Little Ships were used in the 2017 film \"Dunkirk\".\n\nOne of the Little Ships, the Red Funnel paddle steamer, \"Princess Elizabeth\" is now owned by the City of Dunkirk and is permanently moored in the harbour as a floating conference centre.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34779419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34779419", "title": "Live at Montreux 2000", "text": "Live at Montreux 2000\n\nLive at Montreux 2000 is a concert DVD by Lou Reed, released in 2005 by Eagle Vision. It was recorded at the 2000 Montreux Jazz Festival in Montreux, Switzerland. Reed performed eight songs from \"Ecstasy\" plus a few older ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "53745784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53745784", "title": "MACS 1423-z7p64", "text": "MACS 1423-z7p64\n\nMACS 1423-z7p64 is a galaxy listed in the MAssive Cluster Survey (MACS), and announced on 10 April 2017 in the journal \"Nature Astronomy\", as being the most distant source of reionization known at this time, with a redshift z = 7.640 ± 0.001 (lookback time >13.1 Gyr).\nMACS 1423-z7p64 was discovered through gravitational lensing by MACS J1423.8+2404 (z = 0.545), a cluster that magnified its brightness by a factor of 10. To identify the galaxy, the astronomers used the slitless grism spectrograph of the Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope on the Hubble Space Telescope, and to determine its distance the Multi-Object Spectrometer for Infra-Red Exploration (MOSFIRE) detector of the Keck Observatory.\nNature received the paper on 27 October 2016.)\nWith a redshift z = 7.640 ± 0.001, and being an order of magnitude lower in intensity than the four other Lyman-α emitters currently known at z > 7.5, it is probably the most distant representative source of reionization found to date. This is from a time when the universe was around 700 million years old.\n"}
{"id": "46294601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46294601", "title": "Miss International Guadeloupe", "text": "Miss International Guadeloupe\n\nMiss International Guadeloupe is a national Beauty pageant responsible for selecting Guadeloupe's representatives to the International pageants. This pageant is not related to \"Miss Guadeloupe\" where the winner traditionally competes at Miss France contest.\n\nMiss Guadeloupe pageant has been known since 1977 when the island competed at the Miss Universe pageant. Since 1984 the island joins Miss France contest as overseas department of the country. In 1985 it boycotts to the Miss Universe pageant, because of the pageant does allow that island competing in a national competition as a region.\n\nSince 2003 Guadeloupe allows winners to compete at the Miss World contest. The \"Miss International Guadeloupe\" contest sends its winner to the Miss World. While runners-up might compete at the Miss International and Miss Earth pageants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2161882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2161882", "title": "Nansen International Office for Refugees", "text": "Nansen International Office for Refugees\n\nThe Nansen International Office for Refugees (\"\") was an organization established in 1930 by the League of Nations and named after Fridtjof Nansen, soon after his death, which was internationally in charge of refugees from war areas between 1930 and 1939. It is noted for developing the Nansen passport which allowed stateless people to travel between countries. It received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1938.\n\nThe \"Office International Nansen pour les Réfugiés\" was established in 1930 by the League of Nations, shortly after the death of its name patron Fridtjof Nansen to continue his successful work in international aid for refugee. It thus continued the organization in Geneva, Switzerland, founded by Nansen in 1921. The League also provided the administrative expenses for the Nansen Office though only for fees charged for the Nansen passport since its revenues for welfare and relief were obtained from private contributions. \n\nThe organization was to supply material and political support to refugees. For refugees from the Third Reich or from the civil war-torn Spain, the Nansen aid was not applicable, though many countries refused to accept the refugees. \n\nIn spite of such problems, the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the organization in 1938 for its work, but due to its dissolution shortly afterwards, the prize money was received by a newly founded refugee organization of the League of Nations. The office was dissolved at the same time as the League dissolved the High Commission (established in 1933) because of the problems surrounding German refugees after the dissolution of the Third Reich.\n\nThe Nansen Office accomplished numerous tasks while it existed. \n\nThe Office was responsible for the adoption by fourteen countries of the 1933 Refugee Convention which was a modest charter of human rights.\n\nThe Nansen Office was instrumental in finding shelter in specially constructed houses in villages in Syria and Lebanon for 40,000 Armenians, after the resettlement of another 10,000 in Yerevan. \n\nThe Nansen International Office for Refugees was responsible for the successful settlement of the Saar refugees in Paraguay after 1935.\n\nThe Nansen International Office for Refugees was awarded the 1938 Nobel Peace Prize for its efforts to establish the Nansen passports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6482537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6482537", "title": "Newington Butts Theatre", "text": "Newington Butts Theatre\n\nThe Newington Butts Theatre was one of the earliest Elizabethan theatres, possibly predating even The Theatre of 1576 and the Curtain Theatre, which are usually regarded as the first dedicated playhouses in London. William Ingram believes it was probably the first of the three to begin construction, and may have been the first completed.\n\nThe Mayor and Corporation of London banned plays in 1572 as a measure against the plague, and in 1575 they formally expelled all players from the city. This prompted the construction of playhouses outside the jurisdiction of London, in the liberties of Halliwell (in Shoreditch) and later the Clink, and at Newington near the established entertainment district of St. George's Fields. The Newington theatre was located not on Newington Butts but on the east side of Walworth Road near the junction with New Kent Road. The playhouse stood less than an acre of land in Lurklane, occupying of frontage on what became Walworth Road and bounded to the south by a drainage ditch (or \"sewer\" in the language of the time). Ingram uses Commissions of Sewers records of 1576–1578 to deduce that the actor Jerome Savage lived adjacent to the sewer and thus the playhouse was in the northern part of the plot. The Reliance Building used to occupy the site; it is now under the southern roundabout of the Elephant and Castle junction.\n\nLurklane was out of leased in 1566 from the Dean and Chapter of Canterbury Cathedral by Richard Hick(e)s. Hicks was a grocer and member of the royal retinue, sometimes described as a \"yeoman of the guard\". Hicks sublet Lurklane to Jerome Savage on or about Lady Day (25 March) 1576, some three weeks before the lease was signed for The Theatre in Shoreditch. However, soon after the 1576 lease was signed, Hicks and his son-in-law Peter Hunningborne tried to rescind it. They failed to do so through the courts, but used trickery to make Savage default on his rent on Lady Day 1577. Savage appears to have stayed on the premises, and in turn sought the protection of the law as Hunningborne sought to move into Savage's residence. Hunningborne described Savage as \"a verrie lewed fealowe\" who \"liveth by noe other trade than playinge of staige plaies and Interlevdes\". However the sewer assessments indicate that Savage remained on the premises, so the lawsuit may have been withdrawn or settled out of court.\n\nWickham \"et al\" interpret these documents to mean that Hicks constructed a 'house or tenement' that someone (presumably the actor Savage) converted into a playhouse. It was clearly established by Lady Day 1577 and like the Theatre may have been in use before the winter of 1576/77, or even in 1575. Savage may have built the theatre under the patronage of the Earl of Warwick whose company of actors first performed at court on 14 February 1575. Warwick had been appointed to the Privy Council in the autumn of 1573, and the more powerful privy councillors – the earls of Sussex, Lincoln, Arundel and his younger brother Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester – were all patrons of playing companies.\n\nWarwick's company appears to have flourished for around five years, before ill-health forced him to retire to his home in Herfordshire. On 13 May 1580 the Privy Council wrote to the Surrey justices about an unknown company playing at Newington Butts despite a ban on theatre. It is known that John and Lawrence Dutton led members of Warwick's company to reform as the Earl of Oxford's players by April 1580, and Ingram speculates that it was they who were playing at their old home. Oxford was sent to the Tower of London in 1581, banished from court until 1 June 1583 and went off to war in Flanders in 1585. John Dutton left for the newly formed Queen's Men in 1583 but Oxford's Men survived the loss of their leader, being recorded in each year 1584–1587 and leaving traces of activity thereafter.\n\nA sewer record of 26 February 1591 refers to Hunningborne and the playhouse. By that time it seems to have been in decline, as more theatres sprung up closer to London. Some time in the early 1590s (and definitely before September 1593) Lord Strange's Men played three days there, but the undated Privy Council document comments on the inconvenience of its location and \"of longe tyme plaies haue not there bene vsed on working daies\". Plague closed down London's theatres for most of the period between 22 June 1592 and 14 May 1594. The impresario Philip Henslowe took the opportunity to remodel his Rose Theatre, but for some reason the Privy Council kept it closed from 16 May to 15 June 1594.\n\nAccordingly Henslowe promoted a series of plays at Newington Butts from 3–13 June 1594 with the Admiral's Men and Lord Chamberlain's Men, the two companies that had emerged from Lord Strange's men during the layoff. The nature of Henslowe's relationship with Newington Butts is uncertain, Vickers among others has suggested Henslowe owned it by this time but Wickham \"et al\" speculate that the poor profits he recorded for the season were in part due to the cost of renting the theatre. The ownership theory might be bolstered by Winifred Frazer's suggestion that the enigmatic abbreviation 'ne' used by Henslowe in his records of certain plays, conventionally taken to mean a new play, applies to a performance at Newington.\n\nThis season of plays in June 1594 is well documented, as Henslowe kept assiduous records in his \"Diary\". These include some of the earliest known performances of familiar names such as \"Hamlet\", \"Titus Andronicus\" and \"The Taming of a Shrew\" but in each case the exact relationship between the 1594 plays and those we know as Shakespeare's is uncertain and controversial among scholars. Rutter regards the \"Titus\" put on by Henslowe at the Rose in January 1594 as \"almost certainly Shakespeare's\", but it is very early for the \"Hamlet\" of the Second Quarto and First Folio, which is ascribed to around 1600. This and other evidence has led to the theory that the 1600 text is based on an earlier play, the so-called \"Ur-Hamlet\", which was written by either Thomas Kyd, Shakespeare, or someone else. This performance is the first one on record of Ur-Hamlet, although it appears to have existed since at least 1589.\n\nOn 6 July 1594 the Dean and Chapter let the playhouse site to Paul Buck, on condition that he convert the playhouse to other uses and that no more plays were performed after Michaelmas (29 September). Buck seems to have complied – there is no mention of the playhouse in the renewal of his lease on 5 April 1595, and on 5 October 1599 the Sewer Commission refers to \"the houses where the old playe house did stand att Newington\". The theatrical links lingered after the theatre was gone; a bad pun is referred to as a \"Newington conceit\" in a play of 1612 and the playwright Thomas Middleton died there and was buried at Newington Butts church on 4 July 1627.\n"}
{"id": "192362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192362", "title": "Nuremberg principles", "text": "Nuremberg principles\n\nThe Nuremberg principles were a set of guidelines for determining what constitutes a war crime. The document was created by the International Law Commission of the United Nations to codify the legal principles underlying the Nuremberg Trials of Nazi party members following World War II.\n\nAny person who commits an act which constitutes a crime under international law is responsible therefor and liable to punishment.\n\nThe fact that internal law does not impose a penalty for an act which constitutes a crime under international law does not relieve the person who committed the act from responsibility under international law.\n\nThe fact that a person who committed an act which constitutes a crime under international law, acted as Head of State or responsible government official, does not relieve him from responsibility under international law.\n\nThe fact that a person acted pursuant to order of his Government or of a superior does not relieve him from responsibility under international law, provided a moral choice was in fact possible to him.\n\nThis principle could be paraphrased as follows: \"It is not an acceptable excuse to say 'I was just following my superior's orders'\".\n\nPrevious to the time of the Nuremberg Trials, this excuse was known in common parlance as \"Superior Orders\". After the prominent, high-profile event of the Nuremberg Trials, that excuse is now referred to by many as the \"Nuremberg Defense\". In recent times, a third term, \"lawful orders\" has become common parlance for some people. All three terms are in use today, and they all have slightly different nuances of meaning, depending on the context in which they are used.\n\nNuremberg Principle IV is legally supported by the jurisprudence found in certain articles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which deal indirectly with conscientious objection. It is also supported by the principles found in paragraph 171 of the Handbook on Procedures and Criteria for Determining Refugee Status which was issued by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Those principles deal with the conditions under which conscientious objectors can apply for refugee status in another country if they face persecution in their own country for refusing to participate in an illegal war.\n\nAny person charged with a crime under international law has the right to a fair trial on the facts and law.\n\nComplicity in the commission of a crime against peace, a war crime, or a crime against humanity as set forth in Principle VI is a crime under international law.\n\nIn the period just prior to the June 26, 1945 signing of the Charter of the United Nations, the governments participating in its drafting were opposed to conferring on the United Nations legislative power to enact binding rules of international law. As a corollary, they also rejected proposals to confer on the General Assembly the power to impose certain general conventions on states by some form of majority vote. There was, however, strong support for conferring on the General Assembly the more limited powers of study and recommendation, which led to the adoption of Article 13 in Chapter IV of the Charter. It obliges the United Nations General Assembly to initiate studies and to make recommendations that encourage the progressive development of international law and its codification. The Nuremberg Principles were developed by UN organs under that limited mandate.\n\nUnlike treaty law, customary international law is not written. To prove that a certain rule is customary one has to show that it is reflected in state practice and that there exists a conviction in the international community that such practice is required as a matter of law. (For example, the Nuremberg Trials were a \"practice\" of the \"international law\" of the Nuremberg Principles; and that \"practice\" was supported by the international community.) In this context, \"practice\" relates to official state practice and therefore includes formal statements by states. A contrary practice by some states is possible. If this contrary practice is condemned by other states then the rule is confirmed. (See also: Sources of international law)\n\nIn 1947, under UN General Assembly Resolution 177 (II), paragraph (a), the International Law Commission was directed to \"formulate the principles of international law recognized in the Charter of the Nuremberg Tribunal and in the judgment of the Tribunal.\" In the course of the consideration of this subject, the question arose as to whether or not the Commission should ascertain to what extent the principles contained in the Charter and judgment constituted principles of international law. The conclusion was that since the Nuremberg Principles had been affirmed by the General Assembly, the task entrusted to the Commission was not to express any appreciation of these principles as principles of international law but merely to formulate them. The text above was adopted by the Commission at its second session. The Report of the Commission also contains commentaries on the principles (see Yearbook of the International Law Commission, 1950, Vol. II, pp. 374–378).\n\nConcerning Nuremberg Principle IV, and its reference to an individual's responsibility, it could be argued that a version of the Superior Orders defense can be found as a defense to international crimes in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. (The Rome Statute was agreed upon in 1998 as the foundational document of the International Criminal Court, established to try those individuals accused of serious international crimes.) Article 33, titled \"Superior Orders and prescription of law,\"\nstates:\n\n2. For the purposes of this article, orders to commit genocide or crimes against humanity are manifestly unlawful.\n\nThere are two interpretations of this Article:\n\n\nNuremberg Principle IV, and its reference to an individual's responsibility, was also at issue in Canada in the case of \"Hinzman v. Canada.\" Jeremy Hinzman was a U.S. Army deserter who claimed refugee status in Canada as a conscientious objector, one of many Iraq War resisters. Hinzman's lawyer, Jeffry House, had previously raised the issue of the legality of the Iraq War as having a bearing on their case. The Federal Court ruling was released on March 31, 2006, and denied the refugee status claim. In the decision, Justice Anne L. Mactavish addressed the issue of personal responsibility:\n\nAn individual must be involved at the policy-making level to be culpable for a crime against peace ... the ordinary foot soldier is not expected to make his or her own personal assessment as to the legality of a conflict. Similarly, such an individual cannot be held criminally responsible for fighting in support of an illegal war, assuming that his or her personal war-time conduct is otherwise proper.\nOn Nov 15, 2007, a quorum of the Supreme Court of Canada consisting of Justices Michel Bastarache, Rosalie Abella, and Louise Charron refused an application to have the Court hear the case on appeal, without giving reasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "14372472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14372472", "title": "Official function", "text": "Official function\n\nAn official function is either an event, such as a convention, that has an official purpose for one's employment, vocation or profession-whether run by a person, institution or governmental agency-or an official duty.\n\nAttending events with official purposes is one of the duties of many persons in many organizations. Attending such events fall into categories of networking, protocol, information gathering, among others. Networking may involve an economic network, an entrepreneurial network, an old boy network, a social network, and a value network. Protocol deals with etiquette and other forms of intercultural competence that should be followed to show respect for those with whom one is networking. Information may be gained as a message, a pattern, or an input.\n\nAttending events with official purposes helps one build an augmented social network, a community of practice, and a network of practice. Such attendance increases occupational competence and achievement.\n\nOfficial duties are those performed to facilitate the achievement of one's assignments as an employee. They may include duties that are performed in a routine manner and duties whose performance demonstrates innovation and leadership. They may include duties that are commonly performed, and duties that must be performed because of new circumstances.\n\n"}
{"id": "1622593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1622593", "title": "Otto Witte", "text": "Otto Witte\n\nOtto Witte (October 16, 1872 – August 13, 1958) was a German circus acrobat and fantasist who said that he managed to be crowned King of Albania.\n\nIn 1913, when Albania broke away from the Ottoman Empire, some Albanian Muslims invited Halim Eddine, a nephew of the Sultan, to come and be crowned king. Noticing his own resemblance to Halim Eddine, Witte said, he traveled to Durrës with a friend, the sword-swallower Max Schlepsig. He claimed that he had succeeded in being crowned king by the local troops on 13 August 1913. He also claimed that, over the next five days, he enjoyed a harem and declared war on Montenegro before his ruse was discovered. His claims also include that he took a substantial portion of the kingdom's treasury, and along with Schlepsig he managed to escape the palace with the aid of the harem, and eventually made their way out of the country.\n\nMost parts of his story were found to be impossible. There was no Halim Eddine and the Sultan Abdul Hamid II's son Burhan Eddine, who was offered the throne in 1914, never came; he may be the model for this story. Originally he claimed this escapade happened in February 1913, when Albania was still under Serbian occupation, so he changed the date to August 1913. There is no local evidence to support his claims. Nevertheless, he became famous in Germany for his public appearance. The Berlin police later allowed his official identity card to bear the artistic pseudonym \"ehemaliger König von Albanien\" (\"former King of Albania\"). For the rest of his life he insisted on being greeted with that title, and it was put on his tombstone at Ohlsdorf Cemetery, Hamburg (Parzelle Q 9, 430–433).\n\nHe may have suffered from pseudologia fantastica; for example, he claimed to have founded a political party. He said he was a candidate for the German presidency in 1925, gaining 25,000 to 230,000 votes in the first round but resigning in favour of Paul von Hindenburg. The voting records do not support this either. \n\nInterest in Albania was high in the German-speaking world because the Great Powers had chosen a German prince to sit on the throne. William of Wied was approached for the job in 1913 and ruled for six months in 1914. The similarity in name between Wied and Witte may have inspired Witte to make up the story.\n\nOtto Witte's story was adapted by Harry Turtledove for his fantasy novel \"Every Inch a King\". Witte's story bears a strong resemblance to the best-selling adventure novel \"The Prisoner of Zenda\" (1894), of which the first film adaptation was released in 1913. The central concept of \"Zenda\" is a commoner being mistaken for a king, and assuming his place. Another adaption of Otto Witte's story is in the 2012 novel \"If you're reading this I'm already dead\" by Andrew Nicoll.\n\nVarious newspapers and magazines took Otto's story as fact and repeated it, including \"Time\" magazine, which published an article about his tale in 1958.\n\n"}
{"id": "36150725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36150725", "title": "Robin van Helsum", "text": "Robin van Helsum\n\nRobin van Helsum (born 22 April 1992 in Hengelo) is a Dutch citizen who went missing on 2 September 2011 and appeared in the Berlin city hall Rotes Rathaus three days later, claiming his mother had died in an automobile crash when he was 12 and that he had lived with his father for five years in the forests of Germany, where he buried his father after the latter died in August 2011. Dubbed \"Forest Boy\" by the media, van Helsum later admitted that the disappearance was a hoax and was sentenced to 160 hours of community service. Van Helsum was believed to have vanished before he was discovered working in Berlin.\n\nVan Helsum was born on 22 April 1992 to Doreen and Johan van Helsum. Van Helsum's parents divorced shortly after he was born, and his mother emigrated to Portugal taking him and his older brother. As a child, he was rebellious towards his father and was known to be shy and rarely socialised. He is reportedly a fan of American cartoons South Park and Family Guy. Van Helsum's father Johan fought and won a custody case against his ex-wife and moved his sons back to the Netherlands upon their return to his legal guardianship. His father was known by his coworkers to be a dedicated father and brought up the children on a strict routine. Van Helsum had become traumatised as his mother attempted to contact her son by sending him gifts with van Helsum showing no interest.\n\nHe attended the ROC van Twente College to study Media and Communications. He was known to miss classes and did not gain his final certificate. Van Helsum moved to a group home under supervised accommodation at the age of 16, after he became estranged from his father, but was forced to leave at the age of 18 when officials discovered that he had impregnated a fellow resident of the facility. Upon hearing the news of the pregnancy, van Helsum disagreed with the pregnant woman over plans for the child as van Helsum did not want the child whereas she expressed interest for the child to be born. His son, Damien, is now two years old. At the same time, van Helsum was working as an intern at Voicedata, a local telecommunications company which he left in February 2011. After leaving his job, van Helsum went into a Youth Hostel. During his time there, he spent most of his time using a computer and often argued with the hostel owners over payment of bills.\n\nOne week before his trek into Germany, van Helsum posted a message on the internet stating the need for housing for a long period of time to share with a roommate.\n\nVan Helsum made a five-day trek into Germany from his residence in Hengelo, Netherlands with a friend named Lex. The pair hiked with the help of a map and compass, and both stayed in tents overnight. He showed up at Berlin City Hall on 5 September 2011. He spoke to the office workers saying; \"I'm all alone in the world, I don't know who I am. Please help me.” He gave his first name as \"Ray\" and that his date of birth was 20 June 1994. had claimed that his father had died in August 2011 and that he had buried him \"in a hole in the forest underneath some stones\" and that his mother had died in a car crash when he was 12 and that van Helsum received scars on his face. (Unknown to van Helsum, his real father died in February 2012, not knowing what had happened to his son.) He was wearing a golden-coloured necklace around his neck with the pendant \"D\", the first letter in his mother's name. He had appeared without a passport and any form of identification. \"Ray\" spoke English with a slight accent suggesting to the German Authorities that one or both of his parents were American or British. Police in Berlin believed that he may have been from the Czech Republic having given the indication that he lived in the undergrowth of the Ore Mountains.\n\nBelieved to be a minor and an orphan, van Helsum was provided shelter in social care housing in western Berlin by the Berlin Jugendamt (Youth Office). During his time in care, he was around other teenagers but had spoken little, having little knowledge of the German language. Van Helsum shared a room with another boy, showing the ability to eat with a knife and fork and went bowling with fellow residents. He was later moved to a long-term Hostel. Van Helsum had adapted to life in Berlin quickly. He was going to school and became adapted with technology, using a laptop and mobile phone, he had also learnt more German by taking lessons. and received pocket money. English language experts were employed attempting to determine where his origins were without any success.\n\nBild newspaper published a blurred photograph head and shoulders portrait of van Helsum. The photograph was blurred as the authorities suspected him of being a minor. In November 2011, van Helsum's DNA was taken to a local police data bank after he initially refused to give a sample. Fingerprints and photographs, along with DNA samples, circulated through Interpol and other major police forces and showed that van Helsum did not have a criminal record. Police attempted to search for a grave with no success and van Helsum was unable to locate the forest he was living in. A couple from Switzerland had contacted police to come forward believing that van Helsum was their grandson and had DNA samples taken.\n\nWith the attempts at identification of \"Forest boy Ray\" having failed, the Berlin police released a photograph in early June 2012, requesting identification. Van Helsum was then identified by a former girlfriend, whereupon he admitted having made up his story. After he was identified, he phoned his stepmother asking her if he could return to her home for rest. \nAccording to friends from his hometown of Hengelo, he was inspired by the films of the Zeitgeist Movement.\n\nVan Helsum was evicted from the Jugendamt shelter on 18 June 2012. As he is not a minor, he cannot be forced to return to the Netherlands. A spokesperson of the Berlin Jugendamt stated they were going to file a complaint against van Helsum for falsely acquiring youth assistance. He could face criminal charges and as much as a euro 30,000 (US$40,000) fine. Social services had complained about not receiving an apology or any sign of gratitude when van Helsum was in care.\n\nVan Helsum was believed to have vanished, and the German Authorities believed he spent the Summer moving from village to village with unconfirmed sightings at his birthplace of Hengelo and Berlin. His ex-girlfriend made an emotional appeal on Dutch television hoping that contact would be made between the pair. He was later discovered by Bild newspaper working in a local Berlin branch of Burger King on 27 September 2012.\n\nA court case against van Helsum was held in Berlin on 26 September 2013. The court decided to drop the complaint of fraud if van Helsum will agree to 150 hours of community service. The Berlin Jugendamt could still demand payment back of costs incurred in a civil case.\n"}
{"id": "11425464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11425464", "title": "Saskatoon Fringe Theatre Festival", "text": "Saskatoon Fringe Theatre Festival\n\nThe newly named Nutrien Fringe Theatre Festival is an annual fringe theatre festival in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada. A fringe festival is not censored, and not juried, provides live theatre inexpensively, and a public busking forum for musicians. The PotashCorp Fringe Theatre Festival is hosted annually in the Broadway District in the Nutana neighborhood in six temporary theatre venues. The festival is a major tourism destination.\n\nThe Nutrien Fringe is held in July / August annually in Saskatoon. The festival features independent theatre from around the world, Canada, and Saskatchewan in a schedule of 200+ shows. Additional attractions include Saskatoon's only ten-day street festival with craft vendors, food vendors and professional buskers. 50,000 people attend the event annually and the ticketed theatre audience is 11,000.\n\nThe show schedule typically features thirty-three (33) theatre groups with the slots equally allocated to Saskatchewan artists, national artists and international artists. The selection process is a lottery system. The artist call opens in September annually. Information and registration forms are available online at www.yxefringe.com.\n\nThe Saskatoon Fringe Festival was first launched and produced by 25th Street Theatre Artistic Director Tom Bentley. The first (mini) Fringe was held in the summer of 1989 in the Duchess Street theatre venue in Saskatoon, as touring Fringe theatre artists between Winnipeg and Edmonton's Fringe sought performance opportunities in Saskatoon. In 1990, the Fringe moved to its regular Broadway Avenue venues to great success with a 6000 seat audience in its first full offering of theatre.\n\nSaskatoon now proudly hosts one of the top ten Fringes in North America by artist earnings and has garnered a reputation as one of the favorites on the Canadian Fringe tour.\n\n"}
{"id": "163204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163204", "title": "Secret identity", "text": "Secret identity\n\nA secret identity is a person's alter ego which is not known to the general populace, most often used in fiction. Brought into popular culture by the Scarlet Pimpernel in 1903, the concept is particularly prevalent in the American comic book genre, and is a more genre-specific version of the broader trope of the masquerade.\n\nIn American comic books, a character typically has dual identities, with one identity being the superhero persona and the other being the secret identity. The secret identity is typically the superhero's civilian persona when they are not assuming the superhero persona. It is kept hidden from their enemies and the general public to protect themselves from legal ramifications, pressure, or public scrutiny, as well as to protect their friends and loved ones from harm secondary to their actions as superheroes.\n\nThe secret identity commonly consists of the superhero's given birth name and may involve an occupation they had before becoming a superhero. This is in contrast to the superhero identity, which often utilizes a pseudonym and sometimes a mask to complete a costume to conceal the superhero's secret identity. To help further preserve the anonymity of secret identities, characters may use eyeglasses, particular clothing, or display a different set of personal characteristics when assuming the secret identity persona. For example, the superhero Batman's secret identity is Bruce Wayne, a billionaire who is known to the public for his affluent playboy lifestyle. Another example is Superman, who does not wear a mask when he is in costume, but wears eyeglasses and appears mild-mannered when he assumes his secret identity of Clark Kent.\n\nTypes of characters that may have secret identities include heroes, superheroes, thieves, villains, supervillains, vigilantes, aliens, and \"monsters\". A character may have several secret identities simultaneously, such as adopted names or undercover identities.\n\nMyth and legend is filled with stories of gods or heroes who took on other identities for various purposes. A significant precursor to the 20th century concept of a secret identity in fiction is \"The Count of Monte Cristo\" (1844) by Alexandre Dumas, a huguely popular story which was frequently dramatized in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. In this story, the protagonist Edmund Dantes takes on the identity of the mysterious Count of Monte Cristo in order to carry out his plan of revenge against the men who were responsible for his downfall and imprisonment. \nThe modern popular culture use of secret identities begins in the early 20th century with characters such as the Scarlet Pimpernel (1903), Jimmie Dale, the Gray Seal (1914), Zorro (1919), and the Lone Ranger (1933). A line in the novel \"The Scarlet Pimpernel\" reads, \"Because the Scarlet Pimpernel works in the dark, and his identity is only known under the solemn oath of secrecy to his immediate followers.\" The Scarlet Pimpernel is the name of a chivalrous Englishman, Sir Percy Blakeney, who exhibits characteristics that would become standard superhero conventions, including the penchant for disguise, use of a signature weapon (sword), ability to out-think and outwit his adversaries, and a calling card (he leaves behind a scarlet pimpernel at each of his interventions). By drawing attention to his alter ego Blakeney he hides behind his public face as a slow thinking foppish playboy (like Bruce Wayne), and he also establishes a network of supporters, The League of the Scarlet Pimpernel, that aid his endeavours.\n\nStarting in the 1930s, the concept of crime-fighters, superheroes, and vigilantes (and their adversaries) adopting secret identities became more widespread in dime novels, pulp magazines, comic books, old-time radio dramas, movie serials, and other popular fiction and such characters remain popular to this day. Superman appeared in \"Action Comics\" in 1938 as one of the forerunners amongst a list of superhero debuts.\n\nThe artistic purpose of the secret identity on the part of the writers is that it allows the characters to have ordinary lives, which can allow for human drama as well as create tension with the effort needed to preserve the secret. This can include challenges such as throwing off the suspicions of associates who suspect, and the need to quickly improvise means to get out of sight to change identities. And superhuman characters may benefit from an everyman aspect through having a secret identity, giving them a sympathetic link to their audience. For example, Captain Marvel's secret identity is a boy named Billy Batson - a deliberate attempt to play on the daydreams of a young readership.\n\nSome common motivations for a character to keep a secret identity include:\n\nSometimes the distinction as to which persona is the \"real one\" may be blurred or confused, as has sometimes been the case with Clark Kent and Superman. In the earliest Superman comics, Clark's primary purpose was to fulfill the perceived requirement that a superhero cannot remain on full duty all the time and Clark thus acted as little more than a front for Superman's activities. In the television series \"\", after Lois Lane learns that Superman is Clark Kent, he discusses his dual identity with her. \"Clark Kent is not a disguise. Clark is who I am, while Superman is what I do.\" \n\nThe compromises that Clark still needed to make to secure his alter-egos were limited as the Pa Kent of the \"Man of Steel\" comics enthusiastically explains: \n\nBeyond stooping, Clark develops a tendency of avoiding conflict. Sometimes this is in order to allow him to change into his alter ego. while at other times it is to maintain a consistently non-Superman type image. In either case, it opens the \"mild mannered\" reporter to the stigma of cowardice and weakness. Superman's face remains uncovered on the justification that he wants to be trusted by people while Batman wears a mask partly because he wants to be feared by criminals. It has also been suggested that Bruce Wayne is \"the mask\" that Batman wears, meaning that Batman is the true persona, hidden by his public image.\n\nHeroes in this type of situation are known to find their love interests developing interests in and even infatuations for their heroic personas, as a dual identity can have an influence on romantic attraction. Lois Lane found herself attracted to Superman but is fairly indifferent towards Clark Kent and for years bore some resentment towards him. Similarly, Black Cat was madly in love with Spider-Man but was utterly replused by his revelation as Peter Parker, which eventually led to their break-up. Following a reset that erased her memory of his secret identity, Black Cat and Spider-Man have a strictly \"masks-on\" relationship whenever they engage in on-again, off-again romance.\n\nCharacters who experience an actual transformation when changing from one persona may have two relatively genuine identities, albeit with additional possibilities of inner conflict. An example of this is Dr. Robert Bruce Banner who needs to seek genuine calmness in order to prevent transforming into the genuinely raging Hulk. Other characters have abilities that help them conceal their identities such as: shapeshifting or mind control. For instance Marvel's Mystique has an unaltered form with features including blue skin and yellow eyes and yet she has shape shifting and vocal mimicry abilities give her the potential to fit into any required situation. At another extreme characters like He-Man manage to maintain their secret identities with a change of clothes and a tan.\n\nSome characters initially maintain secret identities but discard of them over time. Tony Stark at first told the news media and general public that Iron Man is his personal bodyguard and corporate mascot before he eventually publicly reveals his dual identity. Other characters miss the opportunity to conceal their identities or choose to be public from the very beginning. For instance, the Fantastic Four, who would have always had difficulties concealing the Thing, have typically maintained a public appearance from the Manhattan based Baxter Building. Much like Iron Man, the members of the Fantastic Four have few surviving civilian relatives and most of their friends and loved ones have superhuman abilities they can use to protect themselves from harm.\n\n\nUnless an identity is itself well known, its discovery may not jeopardize the person's safety. For example, the \"Justice League Unlimited\" episode \"The Great Brain Robbery\" features Lex Luthor temporarily body swapping with the Flash (Wally West). When Luthor tries to learn the hero's secret identity by taking off his mask and looking in a mirror, he realizes that he has \"no idea who this is\". If secret identities are to remain secret then others must fail to recognize and subsequently publicize that personas of a character belong to the same person. Identities may be kept secret in a number of ways including: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10979384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10979384", "title": "Sino-Indian border dispute", "text": "Sino-Indian border dispute\n\nSovereignty over two separated pieces of territory have been contested between China and India. Aksai Chin is located either in the Indian province of Jammu and Kashmir, or the Chinese province of Xinjiang, in the west. It is a virtually uninhabited high-altitude wasteland crossed by the Xinjiang-Tibet Highway. The other disputed territory lies south of the McMahon Line. It was formerly referred to as the North East Frontier Agency, and is now called Arunachal Pradesh. The McMahon Line was part of the 1914 Simla Convention between British India and Tibet, an agreement rejected by China.\n\nThe 1962 Sino-Indian War was fought in both of these areas. An agreement to resolve the dispute was concluded in 1996, including \"confidence-building measures\" and a mutually agreed Line of Actual Control. In 2006, the Chinese ambassador to India claimed that all of Arunachal Pradesh is Chinese territory amidst a military buildup. At the time, both countries claimed incursions as much as a kilometre at the northern tip of Sikkim. In 2009, India announced it would deploy additional military forces along the border. In 2014, India proposed China should acknowledge \"One India\" policy to resolve the border dispute.\n\nFrom the area's lowest point (on the Karakash River at about to the glaciated peaks up to above sea level, this is a desolate, largely uninhabited area. It covers an area of about . The desolation of Aksai Chin meant that it had no significant human importance other than ancient trade routes crossing it, providing brief passage during summer for caravans of yaks from Xinjiang and Tibet.\n\nOne of the earliest treaties regarding the boundaries in the western sector was issued in 1842. The Sikh Empire of the Punjab region had annexed Ladakh into the state of Jammu in 1834. In 1841, they invaded Tibet with an army. Chinese forces defeated the Sikh army and in turn entered Ladakh and besieged Leh. After being checked by the Sikh forces, the Chinese and the Sikhs signed a treaty in September 1842, which stipulated no transgressions or interference in the other country's frontiers. The British defeat of the Sikhs in 1846 resulted in transfer of sovereignty over Ladakh to the British, and British commissioners attempted to meet with Chinese officials to discuss the border they now shared. However, both sides were sufficiently satisfied that a traditional border was recognised and defined by natural elements, and the border was not demarcated. The boundaries at the two extremities, Pangong Lake and Karakoram Pass, were reasonably well-defined, but the Aksai Chin area in between lay largely undefined.\n\nW. H. Johnson, a civil servant with the Survey of India proposed the \"Johnson Line\" in 1865, which put Aksai Chin in Jammu and Kashmir. This was the time of the Dungan revolt, when China did not control Xinjiang, so this line was never presented to the Chinese. Johnson presented this line to the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, who then claimed the 18,000 square kilometres contained within his territory and by some accounts he claimed territory further north as far as the Sanju Pass in the Kun Lun Mountains. Johnson's work was severely criticised for gross inaccuracies, with description of his boundary as \"patently absurd\", and he was reprimanded by the British Government and resigned from the Survey. The Maharajah of Jammu and Kashmir constructed a fort at Shahidulla (modern-day Xaidulla), and had troops stationed there for some years to protect caravans. Eventually, most sources placed Shahidulla and the upper Karakash River firmly within the territory of Xinjiang (see accompanying map). According to Francis Younghusband, who explored the region in the late 1880s, there was only an abandoned fort and not one inhabited house at Shahidulla when he was there – it was just a convenient staging post and a convenient headquarters for the nomadic Kirghiz. The abandoned fort had apparently been built a few years earlier by the Dogras. In 1878 the Chinese had reconquered Xinjiang, and by 1890 they already had Shahidulla before the issue was decided. By 1892, China had erected boundary markers at Karakoram Pass.\n\nIn 1897 a British military officer, Sir John Ardagh, proposed a boundary line along the crest of the Kun Lun Mountains north of the Yarkand River. At the time Britain was concerned at the danger of Russian expansion as China weakened, and Ardagh argued that his line was more defensible. The Ardagh line was effectively a modification of the Johnson line, and became known as the \"Johnson-Ardagh Line\".\n\nIn 1893, Hung Ta-chen, a senior Chinese official at St. Petersburg, gave maps of the region to George Macartney, the British consul general at Kashgar, which coincided in broad details. In 1899, Britain proposed a revised boundary, initially suggested by Macartney and developed by the Governor General of India Lord Elgin. This boundary placed the Lingzi Tang plains, which are south of the Laktsang range, in India, and Aksai Chin proper, which is north of the Laktsang range, in China. This border, along the Karakoram Mountains, was proposed and supported by British officials for a number of reasons. The Karakoram Mountains formed a natural boundary, which would set the British borders up to the Indus River watershed while leaving the Tarim River watershed in Chinese control, and Chinese control of this tract would present a further obstacle to Russian advance in Central Asia. The British presented this line, known as the Macartney-MacDonald Line, to the Chinese in 1899 in a note by Sir Claude MacDonald. The Qing government did not respond to the note, and the British took that as Chinese acquiescence. Although no official boundary had ever been negotiated, China believed that this had been the accepted boundary.\n\nBoth the Johnson-Ardagh and the Macartney-MacDonald lines were used on British maps of India. Until at least 1908, the British took the Macdonald line to be the boundary, but in 1911, the Xinhai Revolution resulted in the collapse of central power in China, and by the end of World War I, the British officially used the Johnson Line. However they took no steps to establish outposts or assert actual control on the ground. In 1927, the line was adjusted again as the government of British India abandoned the Johnson line in favour of a line along the Karakoram range further south. However, the maps were not updated and still showed the Johnson Line.\n\nFrom 1917 to 1933, the \"Postal Atlas of China\", published by the Government of China in Peking had shown the boundary in Aksai Chin as per the Johnson line, which runs along the Kunlun mountains. The \"Peking University Atlas\", published in 1925, also put the Aksai Chin in India. When British officials learned of Soviet officials surveying the Aksai Chin for Sheng Shicai, warlord of Xinjiang in 1940–1941, they again advocated the Johnson Line. At this point the British had still made no attempts to establish outposts or control over the Aksai Chin, nor was the issue ever discussed with the governments of China or Tibet, and the boundary remained undemarcated at India's independence.\n\nUpon independence in 1947, the government of India used the Johnson Line as the basis for its official boundary in the west, encompassing Aksai Chin. However, India did not claim the northern areas near Shahidulla and Khotan, for including which in Indian territory, among other things, Johnson had been criticised. From the Karakoram Pass (which is not under dispute), the Indian claim line extends northeast of the Karakoram Mountains north of the salt flats of the Aksai Chin, to set a boundary at the Kunlun Mountains, and incorporating part of the Karakash River and Yarkand River watersheds. From there, it runs east along the Kunlun Mountains, before turning southwest through the Aksai Chin salt flats, through the Karakoram Mountains, and then to Pangong Lake.\n\nOn 1 July 1954 Prime Minister Nehru wrote a memo directing that the maps of India be revised to show definite boundaries on all frontiers. Up to this point, the boundary in the Aksai Chin sector, based on the Johnson Line, had been described as \"undemarcated.\"\n\nThe Johnson Line is not used west of the Karakoram Pass, where China adjoins Pakistan-administered Gilgit–Baltistan. On 13 October 1962, China and Pakistan began negotiations over the boundary west of the Karakoram Pass. In 1963, the two countries settled their boundaries largely on the basis of the Macartney-MacDonald Line, which left the Trans Karakoram Tract 5,800 km / 5,180 km in China, although the agreement provided for renegotiation in the event of a settlement of the Kashmir dispute. India does not recognise that Pakistan and China have a common border, and claims the tract as part of the domains of the pre-1947 state of Kashmir and Jammu. However, India's claim line in that area does not extend as far north of the Karakoram Mountains as the Johnson Line. China & India still have disputes on these borders.\n\nBritish India and China gained a common border in 1826, with British annexation of Assam in the Treaty of Yandabo at the conclusion of the First Anglo-Burmese War (1824–1826). Subsequent annexations in further Anglo-Burmese Wars expanded China's borders with British India eastwards, to include the border with what is now Burma.\n\nIn 1913–14, representatives of Britain, China, and Tibet attended a conference in Simla, India and drew up an agreement concerning Tibet's status and borders. The McMahon Line, a proposed boundary between Tibet and India for the eastern sector, was drawn by British negotiator Henry McMahon on a map attached to the agreement. All three representatives initialled the agreement, but Beijing soon objected to the proposed Sino-Tibet boundary and repudiated the agreement, refusing to sign the final, more detailed map. After approving a note which stated that China could not enjoy rights under the agreement unless she ratified it, the British and Tibetan negotiators signed the Simla Convention and more detailed map as a bilateral accord. Neville Maxwell states that McMahon had been instructed not to sign bilaterally with Tibetans if China refused, but he did so without the Chinese representative present and then kept the declaration secret.\n\nV.K. Singh argues that the basis of these boundaries, accepted by British India and Tibet, were that the historical boundaries of India were the Himalayas and the areas south of the Himalayas were traditionally Indian and associated with India. The high watershed of the Himalayas was proposed as the border between India and its northern neighbours. India's government held the view that the Himalayas were the ancient boundaries of the Indian subcontinent and thus should be the modern boundaries of British India and later the Republic of India.\n\nChinese boundary markers, including one set up by the newly created Chinese Republic, stood near Walong until January 1914, when T. O'Callaghan, an assistant administrator of North East Frontier Agency (NEFA)'s eastern sector, relocated them north to locations closer to the McMahon Line (albeit still South of the Line). He then went to Rima, met with Tibetan officials, and saw no Chinese influence in the area.\n\nBy signing the Simla Agreement with Tibet, the British had violated the Anglo-Russian Convention of 1907, in which both parties were not to negotiate with Tibet, \"except through the intermediary of the Chinese Government\", as well as the Anglo-Chinese Convention of 1906, which bound the British government \"not to annex Tibetan territory.\" Because of doubts concerning the legal status of the accord, the British did not put the McMahon Line on their maps until 1937, nor did they publish the Simla Convention in the treaty record until 1938. Rejecting Tibet's 1913 declaration of independence, China argued that the Simla Convention and McMahon Line were illegal and that Tibetan government was merely a local government without treaty-making powers. In 1947, Tibet requested that India recognise Tibetan authority in the trading town of Tawang, south of the McMahon Line. Tibet did not object to any other portion of the McMahon line. In reply, the Indians asked Tibet to continue the relationship on the basis of the previous British Government.\n\nThe British records show that the Tibetan government’s acceptance of the new border in 1914 was conditional on China accepting the Simla Convention. Since the British were not able to get an acceptance from China, Tibetans considered the MacMahon line invalid. Tibetan officials continued to administer Tawang and refused to concede territory during negotiations in 1938. The governor of Assam asserted that Tawang was \"undoubtedly British\" but noted that it was \"controlled by Tibet, and none of its inhabitants have any idea that they are not Tibetan.\" During World War II, with India's east threatened by Japanese troops and with the threat of Chinese expansionism, British troops secured Tawang for extra defence.\n\nChina's claim on areas south of the McMahon Line, encompassed in the NEFA, were based on the traditional boundaries. India believes that the boundaries China proposed in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh have no written basis and no documentation of acceptance by anyone apart from China. Indians argue that China claims the territory on the basis that it was under Chinese imperial control in the past, while Chinese argue that India claims the territory on the basis that it was under British imperial control in the past. The last Qing emperor's 1912 edict of abdication authorised its succeeding republican government to form a union of \"five peoples, namely, Manchus, Han Chinese, Mongols, Muslims, and Tibetans \"together with their territory in its integrity\".\" However, the practice that India does not place a claim to the regions which previously had the presence of the Mauryan Empire and Chola Dynasty, but which were heavily influenced by Indian culture, further complicates the issue.\n\nIndia's claim line in the eastern sector follows the McMahon Line. The line drawn by McMahon on the detailed 24–25 March 1914 Simla Treaty maps clearly starts at 27°45’40\"N, a trijunction between Bhutan, China, and India, and from there, extends eastwards. Most of the fighting in the eastern sector before the start of the war would take place immediately north of this line. However, India claimed that the \"intent\" of the treaty was to follow the main watershed ridge divide of the Himalayas based on memos from McMahon and the fact that over 90% of the McMahon Line does in fact follow the main watershed ridge divide of the Himalayas. They claimed that territory south of the high ridges here near Bhutan (as elsewhere along most of the McMahon Line) should be Indian territory and north of the high ridges should be Chinese territory. In the Indian claim, the two armies would be separated from each other by the highest mountains in the world.\n\nDuring and after the 1950s, when India began patrolling this area and mapping in greater detail, they confirmed what the 1914 Simla agreement map depicted: six river crossings that interrupted the main Himalayan watershed ridge. At the westernmost location near Bhutan north of Tawang, they modified their maps to extend their claim line northwards to include features such as Thag La ridge, Longju, and Khinzemane as Indian territory. Thus, the Indian version of the McMahon Line moves the Bhutan-China-India trijunction north to 27°51’30\"N. India would claim that the treaty map ran along features such as Thag La ridge, though the actual treaty map itself is topographically vague (as the treaty was not accompanied with demarcation) in places, shows a straight line (not a watershed ridge) near Bhutan and near Thag La, and the treaty includes no verbal description of geographic features nor description of the highest ridges.\n\nDuring the 1950s, the People's Republic of China built a road connecting Xinjiang and western Tibet, of which ran south of the Johnson Line through the Aksai Chin region claimed by India. Aksai Chin was easily accessible from China, but for the Indians on the south side of the Karakoram, the mountain range proved to be an complication in their access to Aksai Chin. The Indians did not learn of the existence of the road until 1957, which was confirmed when the road was shown in Chinese maps published in 1958.\n\nThe Indian position, as stated by prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, was that the Aksai Chin was \"part of the Ladakh region of India for centuries\" and that this northern border was a \"firm and definite one which was not open to discussion with anybody\".\n\nThe Chinese minister, Zhou Enlai argued that the western border had never been delimited, that the Macartney-MacDonald Line, which left the Aksai Chin within Chinese borders was the only line ever proposed to a Chinese government, and that the Aksai Chin was already under Chinese jurisdiction, and that negotiations should take into account the status quo.\n\nIn 1960, based on an agreement between Nehru and Zhou Enlai, officials from India and China held discussions in order to settle the boundary dispute. China and India disagreed on the major watershed that defined the boundary in the western sector. The Chinese statements with respect to their border claims often misrepresented the cited sources.\n\nIn April 2013 India claimed, referencing their own perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) location, that Chinese troops had established a camp in the Daulat Beg Oldi sector, 10 km on their side of the Line of Actual Control. This figure was later revised to a 19 km claim. According to Indian media, the incursion included Chinese military helicopters entering Indian airspace to drop supplies to the troops. However, Chinese officials denied any trespassing having taken place. Soldiers from both countries briefly set up camps on the ill-defined frontier facing each other, but the tension was defused when both sides pulled back soldiers in early May. In September 2014, India and China had a standoff at the LAC, when Indian workers began constructing a canal in the border village of Demchok, and Chinese civilians protested with the army's support. It ended after about three weeks, when both sides agreed to withdraw troops. The Indian army claimed that the Chinese military had set up a camp 3 km inside territory claimed by India. An article on the BBC website states that China gains territory with every incursion.\n\nIn September 2015, Chinese and Indian troops faced-off in the Burtse region of northern Ladakh after Indian troops dismantled a disputed watchtower the Chinese were building close to the mutually-agreed patrolling line.\n\nIn June, a military standoff occurred between India and China in the disputed territory of Doklam, near the Doka La pass. On June 16, 2017, the Chinese brought heavy road building equipment to the Doka La region and began constructing a road in the disputed area. Previously, China had built a dirt road terminating at Doka La where Indian troops were stationed. They would conduct foot patrol from this point up till the Royal Bhutanese Army (RBA) post at Jampheri Ridge. The dispute that ensued post June 16 stemmed from the fact that the Chinese had begun building a road below Doka La, in what India and Bhutan claim to be disputed territory. This resulted in Indian intervention of China’s road construction on June 18, two days after construction began. Bhutan claims that the Chinese have violated the written agreements between the two countries that were drawn up in 1988 and 1998 after extensive rounds of talks. The agreements drawn state that status quo must be maintained in the Doklam area as of before March 1959. It is these agreements that China has violated by constructing a road below Doka La. A series of statements from each countries' respective External Affairs ministries were issued defending each countries' actions. Due to the ambiguity of earlier rounds of border talks beginning from the 1890 Anglo-Chinese Convention that was signed in Kolkata on March 17, 1890, each country refers to different agreements drawn when trying to defend its position on the border dispute. Following the incursion, on June 28, the Chinese military claimed that India had halted construction of a road that was taking place in Chinese sovereign territory. On June 30, India's Foreign Ministry claimed that China's road construction in violation of the status quo had security implications for India. Following this, on July 5, Bhutan issued a demarche asking China to restore the status quo as of before June 16. Throughout July and August, the Doklam issue remained unresolved. On August 28, India issued a statement saying that both countries have agreed to \"expeditious disengagement\" in the Doklam region.\n\nThe Nathu La and Cho La clashes were a series of military clashes in 1967 between India and China alongside the border of the Himalayan Kingdom of Sikkim, then an Indian protectorate. The end of the conflicts saw a Chinese military withdrawal from Sikkim.\n\nIn 1975, the Sikkim monarchy held a referendum, in which the Sikkemese voted overwhelmingly in favour of joining India. At the time China protested and rejected it as illegal. The Sino-Indian Memorandum of 2003 was hailed as a \"de facto\" Chinese acceptance of the annexation. China published a map showing Sikkim as a part of India and the Foreign Ministry deleted it from the list of China's \"border countries and regions\". However, the Sikkim-China border's northernmost point, \"The Finger\", continues to be the subject of dispute and military activity.\n\nChinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said in 2005 that \"Sikkim is no longer the problem between China and India.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3174828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3174828", "title": "Space Cadets (TV series)", "text": "Space Cadets (TV series)\n\nSpace Cadets is a British television programme made by Zeppotron (a division of Endemol UK) for Channel 4. Presented by Johnny Vaughan, it was aired across ten consecutive nights beginning on 7 December 2005, with the final episode aired on the evening of 16 December 2005.\n\nThe series was a hoax at the expense of its contestants, who were told they were being trained as cosmonauts at a Russian military base before undergoing a five-day trip into low earth orbit. In reality, the entire series was filmed in Suffolk, and the contestants did not leave Earth. The series was accompanied by a behind-the-scenes sister show \"Space Cadets: The Satellite Show\", with interviews and phone-ins.\n\nThe series described itself as the most elaborate hoax perpetrated in television history. The title is a reference to the slang phrase \"space cadet\", meaning a person out of touch with reality. It was not clear if the contestants were aware of the show's title, although a whiteboard in the 'barracks' had \"Space Cadettes\" [\"sic\"] written on it during one of the parties organised in the facility.\n\nA group of twelve contestants (who answered an advert looking for \"thrill seekers\") were selected to become the first British televised space tourists, including going to Russia to train as cosmonauts at the \"Space Tourist Agency of Russia\" (STAR) military base, with the series culminating in a group of four embarking on a five-day space mission in low Earth orbit. The show and space mission contained aspects of reality TV, including hidden cameras, soundproofed 'video diary' rooms and group dormitories.\n\nHowever, the show was in fact an elaborate practical joke, described by Commissioning Editor Angela Jain as \"\"Candid Camera\" live in space\" and claimed by Channel 4 to have cost roughly £5million. Unknown to the \"space cadets\", they were not in Russia at all, but at Bentwaters Parks (formerly RAF Bentwaters, a USAF airfield from 1951 to 1993) in Suffolk staffed by costumed actors, and the \"space trip\" was entirely fake, complete with a wooden \"shuttle\" and actor \"pilots\". The production crew went so far as to replace light switches and electrical outlets in the barracks with Russian standard, and smokers amongst the production crew were given Russian cigarettes to smoke in case any of the cadets discovered the butts. In addition, three of the Cadets were actors, included to misdirect any suspicious Cadets and to help reinforce the illusion.\n\nChannel 4 had contingency plans if the contestants realised the hoax; Johnny Vaughan repeatedly suggested they would have to play old rerun episodes of \"Jamie's School Dinners\", and after the \"launch\" some unchosen Cadets would have been used as a backup crew.\n\nThe show was originated by comedy writers Ben Caudell and Richard Osman.\n\n\nFrench, Hassett and Jackson were chosen for the fake flight.\n\nThe three actor Cadets were Charlie Skelton, Ranie Daw and Steve Hester. Hester dropped out on day three after a bout of gastroenteritis and after Skelton accidentally kicked his toenail off. Skelton, also a comedy writer, was chosen to take part in the flight.\n\nThe two pilots were improvisational actors, Alex Humes and Drew Leavy, who stayed in character the entire flight, even when alone. Humes, portraying a Russian pilot, became noted for his bizarre and cryptic statements due to his method acting.\n\nJohnny Vaughan – writer, host\nRichard Campbell – Mission Commander\nGiles Boden – writer\nMichael Klesic – Dr. Vladimir Negovetic\nValera Riazanov – physical instructor\nJohnny Vaughan – writer\nAlex Zane – host\nJeremy Edwards (Episode 1.1)\nMyleene Klass (Episodes 1.1, 1.2)\nRichard Campbell (all episodes)\n\nIn order for the hoax to stand a realistic chance of succeeding, the Cadets would have to remain unaware of the true nature of the show, even given any production mistakes and implausible explanations.\n\nA strict set of criteria was therefore applied to filter out inappropriate applicants:\n\nThe intention was to obtain a group of Cadets who were highly gullible, conformist, and ignorant about the show's subject matter; and also ideally suited to appearing in a reality TV show (e.g. uninhibited extroverts, \"wacky personalities\", or characters otherwise able to capture the public's attention).\n\nAll nine contestants won a genuine trip to Russia, including a trip to Star City (a small town to the north-west of Moscow which is the home to a Cosmonaut training facility); and a ride on a parabolic flight to experience weightlessness (known as a Vomit Comet) for around 25 seconds. In addition, each Cadet won a cash prize of £5,000 each. The three Cadets who went into 'space' won a cash prize of £25,000 each (£5,000 per \"day in space\").\n\nThe show contained moderate amounts of bizarre, surreal, or subversive show elements, in a manner similar to other Zeppotron-related productions (for example, \"TVGoHome\".) Examples include:\n\n\nThe show's ending occurred on the last day as planned. The Cadets had started to gain suspicions due to increasingly ludicrous set pieces (notably the space funeral of a fictional celebrity dog \"Mr. Bimby\", whose ashes were spilt and had to be vacuumed up). The Cadets were prepared for a spacewalk, but once in the module Vaughan showed them a montage of their suspicions, finishing with an outside shot of the simulator, which was the moment when the \"cadets\" knew they had not left the Earth. The module door was opened onto the studio set, complete with friends, family and the actors. Soon after, they were told they were in England, and had not actually even left the country.\n\nInitial viewing figures were 2.6 million (11% share), dropping to 2 million; although Channel 4 was reported as being 'not disappointed' and the figures were in line with that time slot, and 42% of the viewers were the crucial 16- to 34-year-old segment.\n\nEarly viewer reaction to the show contained disbelief that such an apparently outlandish joke could be pulled off (the show claimed that Neil Armstrong had offered to eat his astronaut helmet if the show was successful).\n\nParticularly questioned was how weightlessness, which would be present in a real space flight, would be handled on a ground-based set. The Cadets were told that they would be in \"near space\" (as opposed to \"outer space\"), causing only a 30% loss of gravity; which was compensated by \"gravity generators\" built into the ship. Due to the Cadet-choosing criteria, this profoundly absurd explanation was believed (any object in orbit of another astronomical object will experience free-fall, and thus weightlessness).\n\nThe Space Cadets were initially assembled at Biggin Hill airfield, London, before being flown to Lydd on the south east coast of England. This air-hop would normally take just 15 minutes, but thanks to a specially convoluted flight plan over the North Sea it lasted four hours. Upon arrival at Lydd the cadets were told they had reached Volgograd. The Cadets had been relieved of their watches prior to the flight to prevent them noticing the absent time difference. They were then transferred by helicopter to RAF Bentwaters, Suffolk, which they had been led to believe was the Space Tourism Academy of Russia (STAR) facility in the town of Krymsk.\n\nDuring the four-week period the Cadets were living on-site; their barracks and the academy building where they received their training are situated within the wooded dispersal area, which is on the south west of the airbase.\n\nThe shuttle simulator was assembled in a soundproofed hangar which was constructed within RAF Bentwaters, c. 1991. The shuttle was given the name of Earth Orbiter 1 which was used as the spacecraft's call sign. The simulator was a wooden replica built for the film \"Deep Impact\", and also subsequently featured in \"Armageddon\" and \"Space Cowboys\". As the Cadets spent five days inside the simulator, there was considerable attention and budget given to its plausibility, including extensive surround sound, pneumatic cushions, and a custom-built projector screen to display CGI graphics of the Earth's surface.\n\nThe hangar, called Hush House, is formed from insulated stainless steel walls and features an elaborate exhaust facility that enables the engines of jet aircraft such as the F-16 to be tested with minimal interruption to local residents and livestock. Hush House is situated south of the runway, towards the eastern edge of the site.\n\nIn total, the two programmes are together rumoured to have cost around £4.5M GBP to produce, including prize payouts, the 6-month audition process, set making, staff salaries, and profits for Zeppotron. The high cost fuelled speculation and rumours about further shows and the possibility of the producers performing a double-bluff in the future (Virgin Galactic is likely to offer initial space tourist flights for £100,000).\n\nThe show consistently raised the issue of how an immersive illusion can convince average people over a period of time, especially when reinforced as part of a group of believers – especially when this includes men in white coats and other authority figures. Outsiders (in this case, the viewers) see the hoax as laughable, yet 'inside' the Cadets have been slowly lulled into (as Vaughan stated) \"what is, in effect, an alternative universe.\" The actor Cadet on the 'mission' stated that it was easier to let himself believe the experience was genuine; trying to consciously remind himself of the hoax left him disorientated and \"30% convinced, despite everything I know, that I am actually in space\".\n\nParallels can be drawn to the supposed 'group experiment' element of \"Big Brother\" which \"Space Cadets\" draws on, and in wider terms propaganda, subliminal advertising, and the consensus nature of reality. See also: Asch conformity experiments, Milgram experiment and the Stanford prison experiment.\n\nSeveral episodes of \"\" staged similar \"false journeys,\" which attempted to convince gullible victims of some of the confidence games around which the methods of accomplishing the missions were centred that they were supposedly in transit when, in reality, they were actually not moving or going anywhere at all.\n\nAs the attention to detail in the hoaxed environment became clear, some viewers expressed suspicions – in particular on Channel 4's message board for the programme – that the entire show, including the apparent gullibility and abject ignorance of the Cadets, was in fact a double bluff; all the Cadets were actors and that the real target of \"the biggest prank in television history\" was the \"gullible\" viewing public. The theories were lent considerable credibility when Ryan McBride was sighted in a TV advert for blood donation, although he later explained he was recruited as an extra on-location and was not a professional actor. Variations on this \"conspiracy theory\" included the actor Cadets being unaware of the hoax; that each Cadet believed themself to be the only actor; or that the actors/Cadets believed the \"viewers\" thought the space mission was genuine. One conspiracy theory even went as far as to suggest a real trip into space could be awarded to one of the unsuspecting actor Cadets, possibly using a company like Virgin Galactic or Space Adventures for the prize. Once the programme reached its end these suspicions proved to be unfounded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26662137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26662137", "title": "Spring equinox in Teotihuacán", "text": "Spring equinox in Teotihuacán\n\nSpring equinox in Teotihuacán is an annual event which takes place around the 20th and 21st of March at the pre-Hispanic site of Teotihuacán, Mexico. This event is mirrored by other similar events in other pre-Hispanic sites such as Chichén Itzá and Malinalco, Mexico State.\n\nIn Teotihuacan, thousands of people visit for the event, many dressed in white with a red scarf or other accessory. Many dance, burn incense and chant but the defining ritual is to stand at the top of the Pyramid of the Sun, with arms outstretched facing the sun in the morning on the eastern horizon. Most climb this pyramid between 9am and 1pm. However, those who arrive early enough can see the sun rise over the Apan Mountains to the east of the Pyramid of the Sun, with its red rays coloring the landscape and the onlookers’ clothing. Chanting and other clamor accompanies this sunrise as participants stand with arms outstretched.\n\nSome come because they believe they are following in the footsteps of their ancestors, in asking the gods for energy and health on this day. Some New Age sources claim that at the point of the equinox, man is at a unique place in the cosmos, when portals of energy open. Climbing the 360 stairs to the top of the Pyramid of the Sun is claimed to allow participants to be closer to this \"energy\".\n\nIt was estimated about more than a million people visited the site during the weekend on which the Northward equinox fell in 2010. Officially, the equinox occurred on Saturday, but many seemed assured that the energy was still present on Sunday. Due to the large crowds, access and activity at the site is severely restricted. The site is opened for the event from 6 am to 5pm, with visitors on this day entering through gates 1, 2 and 5 and leaving through gate 3. Commercial activity is restricted. Special scaffolding and security are placed on the pyramid on that day to assure a regular flow of people. Only the first level of the Pyramid of the Moon is accessible. Other areas such as the Palace of Quetzalcoatl, the Site Museum, the Citadel and others are all closed off, restricting visitors to the open areas of the Avenue of the Dead and the plazas around the two pyramids. The small mounds that line the Avenue of the Dead are reserved for police monitoring the crowds below. Ceremonies are restricted to the plazas next to the Pyramids of the Sun and Moon and prohibited on them. The normal parking lots of the site are closed on this day with parking restricted to private lots in the communities around the site.\n\nFirst aid for those who need it, often from the heat later in the day, is provided by the organizations such as the Mexican Red Cross and the state civil protection authority. Around 550 federal police are employed in the archeological zone for the event as well as numerous state and local enforcement for the surrounding communities.\n\nAlthough some are now closed off during the spring equinox, a number of the buildings at the Teotihuacan site show relationships with astronomy. Archaeoastronomy research has been undertaken at the site since the 1990s. The Palace of the Butterflies has circles on its walls created with reflective mica, which have been interpreted as representing astronomical bodies. It is very likely that the Palace of Quetzalcoatl functioned as a solar observatory. On the spring equinox, from between 7:15 and 7:45am when the sun rises, a shadow travels upwards along figures etched and painted red onto a battlement-like structure on the west wall. Some of the figures depicted are owls, a bird associated with darkness as well as rays of light. The symbolism is that of balance between light and dark. Birds also symbolize the stars. This structure is called an \"unxicalcoliuhqui\", a type of fretwork that can also been seen at Chichén Itzá. As with the Butterfly Palace, there are circles on the walls created with reflective mica.\n\nThe first rays of the sun that stream across the landscape on the day of the spring equinox are broken on their way to Teotihuacan by an elevation called the Cerro Colorado Grande. Some believe that this point was used by the ancient people of Teotihuacan to mark the equinox. However, this would most likely have required the placement of the Pyramid of the Sun in a more northerly position, or that the Pyramid of the Moon played a more prominent role in spring equinox celebrations.\n"}
{"id": "13849635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13849635", "title": "Teresa Carr Deni", "text": "Teresa Carr Deni\n\nTeresa Carr Deni was a Philadelphia Municipal Court judge in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, until she resigned to run for Philadelphia District Attorney in December, 2016.\n\nDeni served on the Board of Revision of Taxes and the Mayor's Office of Housing and Community Development. She won a retention vote on November 5, 2013, and will serve a 6-year term.\n\nIn December 2016 Deni announced that she would be challenging District Attorney of Philadelphia R. Seth Williams in the 2017 Democratic Primary.\n\nA 2007 case before Deni involved a 20-year-old prostitute who alleged that she was sexually assaulted by Dominique Gindraw and at least 4 other men. She agreed to have protected sex with Gindraw for $150 after contacting him through Craigslist.\n\nUpon meeting him, he asked her to also have protected sex with his friend for an additional $100. She reported that when the other man arrived, he threatened her with a gun and demanded that she have unprotected sex with at least 3 additional men.\nAfter a police report was filed, four men were arrested and charged with rape and assault. Deni dismissed all of the sex and assault charges and instead charged them with armed robbery and theft of services. She justified her decision by stating:\n\nShe consented and she didn't get paid . . . I thought it was a robbery.\" And that a case like this \"minimizes true rape cases and demeans women who are really raped.\n\nThe same defendant was charged with a similar crime 4 days later. However, assistant district attorney Rich DeSipio refused to present the case before Judge Deni owing to her earlier ruling, arguing that \"I wouldn't demean her [the victim] that way.\" Judge Deni threw out the second case for failure to prosecute.\n\nDeSipio has vowed to appeal both rulings.\n\nOn October 12, 2007 Deni filed a complaint about DeSipio with the state disciplinary committee. She claimed that it was improper for him to initiate press coverage of the case. Both DeSipio and the reporter he spoke with, Jill Porter, claim that Porter was the one who initiated contact about the case.\n\nJane Dalton subsequently denounced Deni for her \"unforgivable miscarriage of justice\" and \"clear disregard of the legal definition of rape and the rule of law.\"\nChancellor Jane Dalton commented, \"I have personally reviewed the transcript from the defendant's preliminary hearing in this case. Based on my reading, the transcript clearly reflects that the victim decided she was not going to engage in sex with any of the men present, and that she was forced to do so at gunpoint. No one has denied or contradicted this.\nJudge Deni's belief that because the victim had originally intended to have sex for money and decided not to because she didn't get paid posits that a woman cannot change her mind about having sex, or withdraw her consent to do so, regardless of the circumstances. [...] As Chancellor, a lawyer, and a human being, I am personally offended by this unforgivable miscarriage of justice. The victim has been brutalized twice in this case: first by the assailants, and now by the court.\"\n"}
{"id": "29107700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29107700", "title": "USS Stark incident", "text": "USS Stark incident\n\nThe USS \"Stark\" incident occurred during the Iran–Iraq War on 17 May 1987, when an Iraqi jet aircraft fired missiles at the American frigate . Thirty-seven United States Navy personnel were killed and 21 were injured.\n\n was part of the Middle East Task Force assigned to patrol off the Saudi Arabian coast near the Iran–Iraq War exclusion boundary. An Iraqi pilot attacked USS Stark in a Dassault Falcon 50 modified business jet armed with two Exocet missiles. American Intelligence was convinced the attack was made with a Dassault Mirage F1, even though the Mirage did not have the capability at the time. The Falcon took off from the airbase of Shaibah at 20:00 and headed south into the Persian Gulf also along the coast. When it came within view just before 22:00, the attacker was off \"Stark\"s port side beam.\n\nInitially not alarmed, at 22:09 Captain Glenn R. Brindel ordered a radioman to send the message: \"Unknown aircraft, this is U.S. Navy warship on your 078 (degrees) for twelve miles. Request you identify yourself.\" The Iraqi Falcon pilot did not respond to the message. The ship's captain ordered a second message sent, to which there was no reply. At 22:10 hrs Captain Brindel was informed the Iraqi aircraft had targeted his ship, locking his Cyrano-IV fire-control radar onto \"Stark\". The Falcon 50 then fired the first Exocet missile from the ship, and the second Exocet from . The pilot then banked left and began to withdraw.\n\n\"Stark\"s search radar and ESM systems failed to detect the incoming missiles. The first Exocet missile struck the port side of the ship near the bridge. Although it failed to detonate, rocket fuel ignited and caused a large fire that quickly spread throughout the ship's post office, storeroom, and the critical combat operations center (where the ship's weapons are controlled).\n\nThe second Exocet also struck the port side. This missile detonated, leaving a hole in the frigate's left side. Electronics for \"Stark\"s Standard Missile defense went out and Captain Brindel could not order his men to return fire. The AWACS plane was still in the area and just after witnessing the attack, radioed a nearby Saudi airbase to send aircraft for an interception, but the ground controllers did not have the authority to order a sortie and the Iraqi jet left unharmed. The USN rules of engagement applicable at the time allowed \"Stark \"to defend herself after sufficiently warning the hostile aircraft. A total of 37 crew were killed in the attack, 29 from the initial explosion and fire, including two lost at sea. Eight would later die from their injuries. Twenty-one others survived their wounds.\n\nCaptain Brindel ordered the starboard side flooded to keep the hole on the hull's port side above water. This helped prevent the Stark from sinking. Brindel quickly dispatched a distress call after the first missile hit. It was received by , which was in the area, and \"Conyngham\" with of its crew on liberty in Bahrain. \"Waddell\" and \"Conyngham\" arrived to provide damage control and relief to \"Stark\"s crew.\n\n\"Stark\" arrived at Bahrain the following day, 18 May 1987. There she was temporarily repaired by the destroyer tender before setting a course for Mayport Naval Station, Florida, the ship's home port. A court of inquiry under Rear Admiral Grant Sharp was formed to investigate the incident and later Captain Brindel was recommended for court-martial but was ultimately only reprimanded. It was found that \"Stark\" was outside the exclusion zone and had not violated neutrality as the Iraqis claimed. Iraq apologized, and Saddam Hussein said that the pilot mistook \"Stark\" for an Iranian tanker. American officials claimed that the Iraqi jet's pilot was not acting under orders from his government and that he was later executed. This has been disputed, as an Iraqi Air Force officer later stated that the pilot was not punished and that he was still alive.\n\nIranian Prime Minister Mir Hossein Mousavi called it a \"divine blessing\" and reiterated the standard Iranian view that the Persian Gulf \"is not a safe place for the superpowers and it is in their interest not to enter this quicksand\". Iraq Foreign Ministry spokesman said Iraq would never intentionally attack any target in the Gulf unless it was Iranian, and laid the blame on Iran.\n\nWashington used the incident to pressure Iran, which it later blamed for the whole situation. President Reagan said \"We've never considered them [Iraq's military] hostile at all\", and \"the villain in the piece is Iran\".\n\nThe Pentagon said that an Iranian helicopter had joined a Saudi Arabian vessel in rescue operations. Furthermore, the Joint Chiefs of Staff investigation into the incident recommended that Iraq be held accountable, a finding the government of Iraq eventually complied with.\n\nCaptain Brindel was relieved of duty and retired for not defending his ship and Tactical Action Officer Lieutenant Basil E. Moncrief resigned.\n\nOn 21 June 2011, an agreement was reached between the governments of the United States and Iraq regarding claims of United States citizens against the regime of Saddam Hussein. The Iraqi government established a fund of $400 million to compensate prisoners of war and hostages in the Persian Gulf War, and those killed or injured in the 1987 attack on \"Stark\". The U.S. Department of State is establishing a mechanism to process applications for compensation.\n\nOn 22 May 1987, a eulogy was given by president Ronald Reagan at Mayport Naval Station, Jacksonville, Florida.\n\nA ceremony is held at Mayport Naval Station on 17 May each year to remember the 37 men who died in the incident. The ceremony in 2012 was the 25th anniversary of the attack.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20419098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20419098", "title": "Vijay Salaskar", "text": "Vijay Salaskar\n\nVijay Salaskar (1957-2008) () was a Police Inspector and encounter specialist serving with the Mumbai police. He was widely credited with killing 75–80 criminals in encounters – most of these were members of the Arun Gawli gang. Salaskar was martyred while fighting terrorists in the November 2008 Mumbai attacks.\nCaptured terrorist Ajmal Amir Kasab claimed responsibility for the killing.\nBefore his death Salaskar was head of the Anti-Extortion Cell, Mumbai. His patriotism and bravery was honoured with the Ashoka Chakra on 26 January 2009.\n\nHe joined Mumbai police as a sub inspector in 1983. \"India Today\" reports Salaskar's first lethal encounter occurred during his first year of appointment, when he shot dead Raja Shahabuddin, known to police on several counts.\nSalaskar, who was reportedly sidelined for the last two years for unearthing the gutka-underworld nexus, was recently attached to the crime branch, where he headed the anti-extortion cell. An officer of the 1983 batch, Salaskar in his 24 years of service had eliminated many criminals. According to sources, the police officer had once even gone hunting for former don Arun Gawli. \"But Gawli fled from the scene, forcing Salaskar to return empty-handed. However, Salaskar got even by killing his two trusted men, Sada Pawle and Vijay Tandel, in 1997, triggering allegations that the encounters were fake. After this, Gawli was so scared that during the 2005 elections, he complained to the government that Salaskar was trying to kill him and requested that he be transferred,'’ sources said.\n\nThis is what Salaskar said in 2004 about Gawli.\" Gawli may have become an MLA. But for me, he continues to remain a former Mumbai don and I have to keep tabs on his activities. If I get any information of his group's involvement in a crime or learn about any shady activity going on at Dagdi Chawl, I will not hesitate to raid his Byculla residence. If I have to arrest him, I will not refrain from doing so. Now that Gawli is an MLA, arresting him will involve certain procedures. I will not bow to any political pressure. I will only take orders from the police commissioner, who is my supreme commander. It was embarrassing that khaki-clad policemen would be deployed to protect Gawli. In the past, we refused him police protection on several occasions. At that time, I had gunned down several of his top henchmen and so he was scared of me. But if Gawli is really reformed, he should not be afraid of me or any other policeman. We do not target innocent persons.\"\n\nVijay Salaskar was killed in action by terrorists during the Mumbai attacks, on 27 November 2008.\n\n\"India Express\" quotes statements by Constable Arun Jadhav, who was with the officers Vijay Salaskar, Ashok Kamte and Hemant Karkare when they died.\nThe three officers and four constables had received information that Sadanand Date had been wounded while resisting hostile terrorist action at the Cama and Albless Hospital for women and children.\nCurrently located at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST), a ten-minute drive from the hospital, they took a Toyota Qualis and proceeded in that direction. Salaskar was driving, Ashok Kamte in the passenger seat, Hemant Karkare in the second row, and the four Constables, including Jadhav, were in the back row of seating. According to Jadhav, five minutes later two terrorists stepped out from behind a tree and opened fire with AK-47 automatic rifles. The six policemen, other than Jadhav, were all killed quickly in the gunfire. The wounded Jadhav had no opportunity to render assistance. The two terrorists approached the vehicle, dumped the bodies of the three officers on the road and, leaving the constables for dead, proceeded to Metro Junction. Upon arrival, they aimed three bursts of automatic fire at police and journalist vehicles drawn up at that location, then drove off towards the government offices (Vidhan Bhawan) in South Mumbai. Here again they fired several times. While attempting to leave the area, one of the tyres of the vehicle burst, so the terrorists departed to obtain another. At this point, Jadhav was able to contact headquarters. The bodies of the dead were promptly recovered and taken to St George Hospital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35890391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35890391", "title": "Wanda Group", "text": "Wanda Group\n\nWanda Group (), or Dalian Wanda (), is a Chinese multinational conglomerate based in Beijing. It is a private property developer and owner of Wanda Cinemas and the Hoyts Group, as well as a majority shareholder of AMC Theatres.\n\nWith investments within Mainland China and globally, the Dalian Wanda group has investments across many industries including construction, entertainment, media, industrial manufacturing, financial services, high technology, hospitality, real estate, retail, healthcare, and sports. It was established in Dalian, Liaoning and is now headquartered in Beijing. It ranked 380th on the Fortune Global 500 List in 2017. In 2017, its assets amounted to 700 billion yuan and an annual revenue 227.4 billion yuan ($35.29 billion). Wanda Cultural Industry Group is one of China’s cultural enterprise, which includes movie theaters, sports and film-production assets, contributed 28% or $10.85 billion to overall revenue.\n\nThe company was founded in Dalian, Liaoning, in 1988 as a residential real estate company by businessman Wang Jianlin. Incorporated in 1992, the company was \"one of the first shareholding companies in the PRC\" after the economic reform. The company started to use the name \"Wanda\" since then. \"Wàn\" () means ten thousand, and \"Dá\" () means to reach or attain. In combination, the company's name is a slogan claiming to be able to reach everything.\n\nSince 2005, recent years Chinese property developers like Dalian Wanda and Evergrande have made forays into \"alternative, income-generating businesses away from the property market\". The \"Financial Times\" noted that Dalian Wanda was the \"most aggressive\" in pursuing this strategy, pointing to its 2012 acquisition of U.S. cinema chain AMC Theatres and 2013 purchase of British yachtmaker Sunseeker. It noted that it was also \"building theme parks across China, and has a joint venture with Tencent and Baidu to set up an e-commerce platform\".\n\nDalian Wanda acquired the U.S.-based cinema operator AMC Theatres in May 2012 for $2.6 billion, the largest Chinese acquisition of an American company to that date. The acquisition went through successfully in August 2012, making Wanda Cinemas the world’s largest cinema operator. As of 2016, Wanda owns approximately 6% of all commercial movie screens in China, and about 13% in the U.S. The company made major changes in AMC theater design and layout, including generously sized reclining seats, waiter service, and expanded food and drink offerings. Ticket sales at AMC nearly doubled in the 18 months following the acquisition, and by the end of 2014 Wanda had reaped a reported profit of about US$900 million. AMC also co-owns of Open Road Films and Fathom Events.\n\nIn June 2013, Dalian Wanda planned to invest $1.1 billion to develop a new five-star hotel in London next to the Thames River in Vauxhall, South London, as part of the Nine Elms regeneration. Mayor of London Boris Johnson welcomed this move. It is building \"Western Europe’s tallest residential building\". Plans were scrapped in 2015,\n\nIn June 2013, Dalian Wanda acquired Sunseeker International, a UK-based maker of luxury yachts used in the James Bond movies, for $500 million. This acquisition gave them a 92% stake in the company.\n\nIn January 2015, Dalian Wanda purchased an office building in Sydney, Australia, from Blackstone Group for around $327 million. The company is \"aggressively expanding overseas to move away from China's property market, which has been hit by a slowing economy\".\n\nIn June 2015, Wanda Cinemas announced that it had acquired Australian cinema chain Hoyts.\n\nIn November 2015, it was announced that a holding company, Wanda Film Holdings, will group all film-related assets.\n\nDalian Wanda plans for a skyscraper in Chicago to be called Wanda Vista, designed by Chicago architect Jeanne Gang and will become the city's third-tallest building. If completed, it will become the tallest building in the world designed by a woman, passing Chicago's Aqua Tower.\n\nOn January 11, 2016, Wanda Group acquired Legendary Entertainment for $3.5 billion. The acquisition of Legendary made Wanda Film Holdings the highest revenue-generating film company in the world.\n\nIn May 2016, Wanda Group acquired Propaganda GEM. The Entertainment Marketing and product placement agency becomes part of Wanda Group's focus on entertainment but also Hollywood content.\n\nWanda Group also owns 20% of Mtime.\n\nIn September 2016, Wanda announced a major partnership with Sony Pictures Entertainment, in which it will take minority investments in a number of upcoming releases. Sony stated that Wanda planned to \"highlight the China element in the films in which it invests\". The deal came in the wake of Wanda's failed bid to acquire a stake in Paramount Pictures.\n\nIn November 2016, Wanda announced it would buy Dick Clark Productions for around $1 billion. However, the deal fell through, with \"Bloomberg\" citing increasing regulation of Chinese investments both domestically and in the United States, and \"Deadline.com\" citing financial struggles in Wanda's real estate business.\n\nIn May 2017, Wanda announced it would invest $3.3B by 2024 in EuropaCity, a mega-project near Paris' Charles de Gaulle airport that will boast a theme park, attractions, cultural exhibitions, retail shops, outdoor sports venues and restaurants over about 200 acres. It's Wanda's biggest-ever single project in Europe. Its other offshore real estate interests include a major development on the banks of London's River Thames and plans for an industrial park in India at a $10B investment.\n\nIn July 2017, Wanda launched the grand opening of Danzhai Wanda Village, a $200 million project of Wanda's poverty alleviation.\n\nIn July 2017 it was reported that the group was selling a number of theme parks and hotels for $9.3 billion to Chinese property developer Sunac.\n\nIn August, Wanda invested $2.14 billion in healthcare industry and launched the Healthcare Group. Wanda cooperates with International Hospital Group.\n\nAugust 9, 2017, Wanda Group announced acquisitions of Wanda Culture Travel Innovation Group and Wanda Hotel Management Co. in a major restructuring. In a filing posted on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, Wanda Hotel Development said it will acquire Wanda Travel for RMB6.3 billion, paid either in cash, the issue of shares and/or convertible bonds, with share prices determined by the company’s closing price on Aug. 8 at HK$1.16 per share. Wanda Hotel Development will acquire Wanda Hotel Management for a cash price of RMB750 million.\n\nIn September 2017, Wanda launched its accelerator project. The final 15 tech startups have been selected for the first Wanda Accelerator project, in order to take full advantage of Wanda's resources, introducing imaginative technology products, and fostering innovation.\n\nIn September 28, 2017, S&P downgrades Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties to BB.\n\nIn 2017, Wanda earned around 49% of its revenue from Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties Co. 28% or $10.85 billion, of total revenue was contributed by Wanda's cultural unit, including movie theaters, sports and film-production.\n\nOn January 29, Tencent, Suning, JD.com, and Sunac signed strategic investment agreements with Wanda Commercial, with plans to invest about RMB 34 billion to acquire Wanda Commercial’s 14% equity interest.\n\nOn February 5, Wanda Group signed a strategic investment agreement with Alibaba Group and Cultural Investment Holdings. The 2 parties will invest 7.8 billion yuan for Wanda Film Holding’s 12.77% stake. Of which, Alibaba invests 4.68 billion yuan and CIS invests 3.12 billion yuan, becoming the second and third largest shareholders after the transaction. Wanda Group remains the controlling shareholder with 48.09% of shares in Wanda Film.\n\nIn 2018, on April 28, the Qingdao Movie Metropolis, a nearly RMB 50 billion industrial investment project, was completed after four years and seven months of construction. The Qingdao Movie Metropolis covers a land area of 166 hectares. According to plans, its production zone will have 52 high-tech studios, including 30 completed in the first phase and 10 under construction in the second phase, including the world’s largest studio measuring 10,000 sq. m., the world’s only integrated outdoor and indoor underwater studio, a comprehensive costumes and props workshop, and a world-leading post-production workshop, among others.\n\nIn May 2018, Wanda, Tencent and Gaopeng launch Internet technology company to build “new consumption” model. The three parties will launch an Internet technology joint venture (JV) to build a world-class new consumption model that will integrate both online and offline businesses. Among the three companies, the breakdown of the JV’s shareholdings is as follows: Wanda Group’s Wanda Commercial Management Group (51%), Tencent (42.48%), and Gaopeng (6.52%).\n\nIn December 2014, Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties, the group's property division, raised $3.7 billion in an initial public offering on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the \"most money a real estate company has raised in the public markets\". The IPO made founder Wang Jianlin worth more than $25 billion, making him one of China's richest men.\n\nIn 2016, the group sought to privatize Dalian Wanda Commercial Properties less than 18 months after the unit's listing on the stock exchange. Standard & Poor was concerned that the move would weaken Wanda Commercial's transparency.\n\nOn January 20, 2015, it was reported that Wang Jianlin was buying a 20% stake in the La Liga club Atlético Madrid. The purchase was finalised March 31, 2015, when the company Wanda Madrid Investment, a subsidiary of Dalian Wanda Group, officially become a partial owner of Atlético Madrid after gaining control of 726,707 shares, representing a 20% ownership stake. The purchase price was €44,983,163.30, or €61.90 per share. The Group sold 17% of its stake to Israeli businessman Idan Ofer on 14 February 2018 for an undisclosed amount.\n\nIn February 2015, Dalian Wanda won an auction to purchase Infront Sports & Media, a sports marketing company based in Zug, Switzerland, for $1.2 billion. Infront distributes broadcasting rights for some of the world’s biggest sporting events; for example, it has the exclusive sales rights to broadcast FIFA's events from 2015 to 2022, including the 2018 and 2022 World Cups. According to Wang Jianlin, \"the acquisition is expected to help boost sports in China and increase Wanda’s influence in global sports\". \n\nIn August 2015, Dalian Wanda has acquired World Triathlon Corporation, a US-based company promoting and licensing various triathlon competitions, for $650 million.\n\nIn November 2015, it was announced that a sports division will include all sports-related assets.\n\nIn March 2016, FIFA announced that Wanda would be a major sponsor for international events until 2030. In September of the same year, Wanda Group announced a media and sponshorship deal with Badminton World Federation through its subsidiary, Infront Sports & Media.\n\nIn June 2017 it purchased Competitor Group (operator of the Rock 'n' Roll Marathon Series).\n\nIn late February 2018, Wanda Group took control of Chinese Super League team Dalian Yifang, though the decision was not officially announced. Wanda also signed Yannick Carrasco and Nicolas Gaitan from Atlético Madrid right after selling the club's shares.\n\nWanda Group was also one the organizer/sponsor of the Tour of Guangxi.\n\nWanda Group has its headquarters in the Wanda Plaza () in Beijing's Chaoyang District, where it moved in 2009. In May 2015, Dalian Wanda Group announced that it was in the process of relocating its corporate headquarters to Shanghai, which will become the third Chinese city to host the company's headquarters.\n\nAs of December 31, 2016, Dalian Wanda owned 185 Wanda Plazas, 90 hotels, 3,947 cinema screens throughout China.\n\nIn 2013, the company’s assets totaled 380 billion yuan ($62.8 billion), its annual income reached 186.6 billion yuan ($30.8 billion) and net profits exceeded 12.5 billion yuan ($2.06 billion).\n\nIn early 2014, Wanda ought the property of One Beverly Hills, and later overcame the exit of its local development partner, as well as bitter objections and lawsuits filed by Israeli-American entrepreneur Beny Alagem, owner of the Beverly Hilton next door. After Wanda came under fire from Beijing regulators in 2017 over its aggressive overseas dealmaking, its local development partner on project One Beverly Hills walk away. Wanda sold this project in 2017.\n\nBy January 2017, Dalian Wanda Group was the largest film exhibitor in China, with Shanghai Film Group in second.\n\nIn July 2017, the Chinese Central Government introduced new measures that bar state-owned banks from providing new loans to private Chinese firms to curb their foreign expansion. According to media reports, the measures were approved directly by General Secretary Xi Jinping. Next to Wanda Group, the measures also targeted HNA Group Co., Anbang Insurance Group as well as Fosun International Ltd. Chairman Wang Jianlin responded by announcing that the company will focus on investing into the domestic market, and sold $9.4 billion worth of assets, including 77 hotels and a 91 percent stake in 13 theme parks to a smaller Chinese competitor.\n\nIn October 2018, Dalian Wanda exited the domestic Chinese theme park business by selling its parks management companies to Sunac for 6.3 billion yuan ($900 million). The deal included the film and TV studios that Wanda constructed in Qingdao.\n\nSince 2011, Dalian Wanda has been the major sponsor of the Chinese Super League football league. From 1994 to 2000, it was the primary sponsor for the Dalian Shide F.C. (then named Dalian Wanda F.C.), during which time the club won four titles in the Chinese top-tier Jia-A League.\n\nThe \"China's Future Football Stars\" project, kicked off in 2013, is being funded by the Wanda Group with an initial phase-I investment of at least 200 million yuan (approximately $32.5 million), the biggest sponsorship in domestic youth sports development since 1949. The program will see 30 young footballers sent to Spain each year for a three-year training program that will consist of football training, as well as education in Spanish language and local culture.\n\nOn March 18, 2016, Wanda signed a deal with FIFA to provide sponsorship at the next four World Cup competitions, up until 2030. Although it is still unclear as to how much money has changed hands, and also which Wanda Subsidiaries will be appearing. This deal makes Wanda the first Chinese First-Tier FIFA Sponsor.\n\nOn December 9, 2016 Wanda signed a deal with Atlético Madrid to have the new stadium named after the Wanda Group. The new stadium's name is Wanda Metropolitano. Wanda Group already owns 20% of the Spanish football club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32642995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32642995", "title": "World Universities Debating Championship in Spanish", "text": "World Universities Debating Championship in Spanish\n\nThe World Universities Debating Championship in Spanish or Campeonato Mundial Universitario de Debate en Español (CMUDE) is the world's largest and most important debating tournament in Spanish.\n\nIt is a parliamentary debating event, held using the British Parliamentary Debate format. The tournament the winners of the open competition are acknowledged as the \"World Champions\" of debating in Spanish.\n\nThe 2016 tournament was held at Universidad de Córdoba in Spain. The 2017 edition will be held at Universidad Francisco Marroquín in Guatemala.\n\nThe Championship is held in the Northern Hemisphere summer.\n\nThe competition involves nine preliminary rounds, which become \"power-paired\" as the tournament progresses, matching the strongest-performing teams against each other. Two teams form the \"government\" (\"proposition\" in the UK and North America) and two the \"opposition\" in each debate room. The process of scoring and pairing these teams is known as \"tabbing\". The scoring of teams is done by judges, most of whom are students or former students from the competing institutions, who return \"ballots\" with their scores to the adjudication team, led by a Chief Adjudicator who is assisted by one or more deputies.\n\nThe nine preliminary rounds are followed by a \"break\" at which the teams proceeding to elimination rounds are announced. In the current tournament format, 32 teams proceed to the quarter-finals, with the best 2 from each debate qualifying for the semi-finals, and the best 2 of each semi-final subsequently proceed to the Grand Final.\n\nIn addition, a public speaking competition is also open to all participants in CMUDE. Since edition held in México in 2014 a Nation's World Cup and a Spanish As a Second Language tournament were introduced.\n\nThere are some differences with the English-speaking version of the tournament. One of them is that there is no limit on the number of teams that a university may register to the tournament as long as they fulfill the \"n-1\" rule, where \"n\" represents the number of teams they bring to the tournament and \"n-1\" is the number of judges they need to provide.\n\nSince the edition in México 2014 a Nation's World Cup has been held. While in Worlds this competition is not taken on a serious manner, the debating formats change year after year and anyone can represent any country or even fictional countries, in the Spanish-speaking version just one team per nation is allowed and the debaters must represent a nation from which they are a national, with the team being formally registered by the representatives of each nation at the tournament.\n\nAnother difference is that composite teams can only exist when it is impossible that those debaters could represent their country due to lack of representation.\n\nThe \"language status\" tournament also has a key difference with Worlds. While Worlds' \"ESL\" and \"EFL\" tournaments are only for the teams that were not able to break into the main tournament, the \"Español como Segunda Lengua\" (Spanish As Second Language) competition features a break of all teams eligible due to their language condition regardless of their performance on the main break, thus crowning the outright \"Spanish As a Second Language\" world champions and not the best of the teams that didn't break.\n\nFinally, since the 2014 edition, a new focus was given to social service, where a full day was dedicated to teach debate to local students, becoming the first debate tournament in the world that includes events of direct social impact as part of its agenda.\n\nThe first criticism of Chile 2012 targeted the motions. Many debaters alleged that some motions were ridicule and hard to debate without tautological definitions, such as \"the devil knows better for devil than for old\".\n\nDuring the tournament many observers and teams suspected that the local teams from Universidad Andrés Bello already knew the motions since their arguments had specific information and facts for special cases deemed impossible to know under a 15-minute preparation without the chance to use devices. As well, in the final round many people said the motion wasn't good as a thesis for the great final, nevertheless, all teams from the hosting university, separately, gave the same approach on how they would have addressed the motion and define the concepts of the thesis given after the debate.\n\nAs well, there were some discrepancies between the rulings and the actions of certain judges, especially regarding the participation of swing teams in the absence of any team, where the judges applied different criteria in different cases, which represented an injustice to certain universities, considered those cases by the organizers as \"the margin of error\". In addition to these reviews, there was controversy over cases not covered in the rules, justified as positivised in the operating rules and procedures by the organizers, which later turned out not to be specified in the regulations manual. Moreover, the competition did not follow a \"Power matching\" format but rather randomized pairings.\n\nThe editions held in Spain and Mexico have been exempt from such controversies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45326059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45326059", "title": "Yemeni Crisis (2011–present)", "text": "Yemeni Crisis (2011–present)\n\nThe Yemeni Crisis began with the 2011–12 revolution against President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who had led Yemen for more than three decades. After Saleh left office in early 2012 as part of a mediated agreement between the Yemeni government and opposition groups, the government led by Saleh's former vice president, Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi, struggled to unite the fractious political landscape of the country and fend off threats both from Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and Houthi militants that had been waging a protracted insurgency in the north for years. In 2014, Houthi fighters swept into the capital of Sana'a and forced Hadi to negotiate a \"unity government\" with other political factions. The rebels continued to apply pressure on the weakened government until, after his presidential palace and private residence came under attack from the militant group, Hadi resigned along with his ministers in January 2015. The following month, the Houthis declared themselves in control of the government, dissolving Parliament and installing an interim Revolutionary Committee led by Mohammed Ali al-Houthi, a cousin of Houthi leader Abdul-Malik al-Houthi. However, Hadi escaped to Aden, where he declared that he remains Yemen's legitimate president, proclaimed the country's temporary capital, and called on loyal government officials and members of the military to rally to him. On 27 March 2015, BBC reported that Hadi had \"fled rebel forces in the city of Aden\" and subsequently \"arrived in Saudi Arabia's capital Riyadh\" as \"Saudi authorities began air strikes in Yemen\". Civil War subsequently erupted between Hadi's government and the Houthis. Since 2017 the separatist Southern Transitional Council (STC) has also fought against the government.\n\nThe wave of protests known as the Arab Spring did not take long to arrive in Yemen after the Tunisian Revolution. Yemen was a poor country with a government widely acknowledged to be corrupt, with a large amount of weapons in private hands. By 2011, the country was already facing challenges from al Qaeda-linked militants and separatists in the south and Zaydi Shia rebels in the north. Yemen had only been unified since 1990, and deep divisions persisted between the north and south.\n\nYemen's political instability has been compounded and partly caused by the severe ecological crisis in the country. The average Yemeni has access to only 140 cubic meters of water per year for all uses, (101 gallons per day) while the Middle Eastern average is 1000 m/yr, and the internationally defined threshold for water stress is 1700 cubic meters per year. Yemen's groundwater is the main source of water in the country but the water tables have dropped severely leaving the country without a viable source of water. For example, in Sana'a, the water table was 30 meters below surface in the 1970s but had dropped to 1200 meters below surface by 2012. The groundwater has not been regulated by Yemen's governments. Even before the revolution, Yemen's water situation had been described as increasingly dire by experts who worried that Yemen would be the \"first country to run out of water\". Agriculture in Yemen takes up about 90% of water in Yemen even though it only generates 6% of GDP - however a large portion of Yemenis are dependent on small-scale subsistence agriculture. Half of agricultural water in Yemen is used to grow khat, a narcotic that most Yemenis chew. This means that in such a water-scarce country as Yemen, where half the population is food-insecure, 45% of the water withdrawn from the ever-depleting aquifers is used to grow a crop that feeds nobody.\n\nThis water insecurity has a direct impact on political stability. Outsiders hear most about the proxy war between factions supported by other countries, but according to the Yemeni newspaper Al-Thawra, 70% to 80% of conflicts in the country's rural regions are water-related. The country's Interior Ministry has estimated that across the country, water and land related disputes kill 4,000 people a year - more than terrorism. In Al-Jawf Governorate, a dispute over a well's placement has led to a blood feud that has continued for more than 30 years In 2007, Yemen's minister of Water and Natural Resources suggested that the Sana'a might have to be evacuated if it runs out of water. Although the government was unable to move the capital in an orderly and peaceful way, the war and political crisis has rendered Sana'a and most of Yemen into a battleground that people have been forced to flee.\n\nAdditional environmental catastrophes have battered Yemen as the war has progressed. In late 2015, two historic cyclones struck the country. The first of these, Cyclone Chapala, struck the island of Socotra before hitting the port of Mukalla on Yemen's south coast, where it caused catastrophic flash flooding. This storm, combined with the following Cyclone Megh, left enough moisture in the soil for locusts to breed. These locusts can fly 100 miles in a day and destroy any crop they encounter.\n\nYemen's political crisis began in 2011, amid the Arab Spring and the ongoing Houthi insurgency.\n\nPopular protests broke out in early 2011, led by both secular and Islamist opposition groups. Longtime rebel groups like the Houthis and the Southern Movement also participated in the protests. Saleh responded with a violent crackdown, and the country nearly disintegrated into an all-out civil war as several army elements broke with the government and joined the protesters, beginning in March.\n\nSaleh was almost killed when a bomb went off in a mosque where he and other top government officials were praying on 3 June, apparently in an assassination attempt. While his condition initially appeared grave, Saleh recovered and returned to work on 23 September after several months of medical treatment in Saudi Arabia. He left Vice President Hadi in charge during his absence. As acting president, Hadi met with the opposition and reportedly expressed openness to political reforms. However, he rejected the idea of forcing Saleh from power without the president's consent.\n\nThe Gulf Co-operation Council applied no small amount of pressure on Saleh to negotiate an end to the uprising by stepping down. Weeks after returning from Saudi Arabia, Saleh finally agreed on 23 November to resign in exchange for immunity. As part of the deal, the opposition agreed to allow Hadi to stand unopposed for the presidency in 2012.\n\nMeanwhile, the insurgent Houthis in northern Yemen laid siege to a Salafi town in Saada Governorate, Dammaj. Fighting was worst in November and December. The Yemeni military was unable to restore order due to the crisis elsewhere in the country.\n\nThe Yemeni Revolution came to an apparently successful conclusion in 2012 for the opposition, as Saleh left office. However, unrest continued in both northern and southern Yemen.\n\nHadi's election on 24 February 2012 peacefully introduced a new government in Yemen, with only a small percentage of voters spoiling their ballots in the single-candidate contest. Hadi, a southerner, especially enjoyed support in former South Yemen, quieting the murmurs of separatism, although the Southern Movement boycotted the presidential election, as did the Houthis. Hadi did not give the restive Houthis any seats in his cabinet.\n\nThe conflict in Dammaj was renewed in April when fighting broke out between Houthi tribesmen and Salafi students. Both sides accused the other of breaking a truce agreement.\n\nNational reconciliation talks were held with the participation of many separatist elements, as well as the Houthis.\n\nNine years after the death of Hussein Badreddin al-Houthi, the Yemeni government turned over the remains of the Houthi patriarch to his family and he was buried in northern Yemen in June 2013, with a representative of the Hadi administration in attendance.\n\nHadi visited the United States, a key overseas ally, in July 2013. The U.S. also lifted a ban on transferring detainees from its Guantanamo Bay detention camp in Cuba to Yemen.\n\nMeanwhile, Saudi Arabia deported as many as 300,000 to 400,000 Yemeni migrant workers to their home country during 2013, causing an influx of poor, landless Yemenis into northern Yemen.\n\nThe conflict between Houthis and Salafis in Saada Governorate was renewed in October and November. Saada government officials accused Houthi fighters of attacking a Salafi mosque in Dammaj in an attempt to drive the Sunnis out, while the Houthis accused the Salafis of using the religious institute as a staging ground for foreign Sunni fighters. The government attempted to intervene to stop the fighting.\n\nSectarian fighting in Al Jawf Governorate lasted throughout the year. Dhamar Governorate also saw clashes between the Houthis and Salafis toward the end of the year.\n\nIn a dramatic turn of events, the rebel Houthis took broad control of northern Yemen, including the capital of Sana'a itself, in 2014.\n\nClashes in Dammaj spread to the Amran Governorate by January 2014. The Houthis achieved victory in Saada when the Yemeni government brokered a deal under which Salafi fighters and their families were evacuated to the neighboring Al Hudaydah Governorate. According to reports, the Houthis then blocked government troops from fully deploying throughout the territory, in spite of a signed agreement.\n\nFighting in the Amran Governorate intensified during the year, with clashes between Houthis and supporters of the Islamist Islah Party eventually leading to a Houthi takeover of the entire governorate. The conflict spread to the Sana'a Governorate by July.\n\nThe Houthis began protesting against Hadi's government to demand concessions in order to resolve a years-long insurgency they had been waging against the Yemeni state in mid-2014. The uprising escalated dramatically as Houthi fighters swept into Sana'a, the capital, and effectively seized control of the city from the Yemeni military within a couple of days in September. The forces of General Ali Mohsen al-Ahmer surrendered to the Houthis after a brief fight. Ali Abdullah Saleh, the former president, was widely suspected of aiding the Houthis behind the scenes and helping pave the way for their takeover. Prime Minister Mohammed Basindawa resigned on 21 September as part of a deal meant to end the standoff.\n\nThe Houthis and the government agreed on 21 September to form a \"unity government\" within one month. However, the Houthis rejected Hadi's original choice of prime minister, Ahmad Awad bin Mubarak, and Oil Minister Khaled Bahah was appointed instead with the armed group's approval. The Houthis and the General People's Congress led by Saleh announced abruptly on 8 November that they would not participate in the unity government, claiming it was unacceptable to them. The boycott prompted sanctions against Saleh and senior Houthi leaders from the United Nations Security Council and the United States Department of the Treasury.\n\nYemen was riven in 2015, with the Houthis establishing a new government in Sana'a and Hadi retreating with his supporters to Aden, and later Saudi Arabia. The Arab League, led by the Saudis, began a bombing campaign and mobilization of various armed forces in the region for a possible invasion.\n\nThe Houthis stepped up their pressure on Hadi's weakened government, seizing the presidential palace and strategic military installations in Sana'a and shelling the president's private residence on 20 January. The following day, they took control of Hadi's home, stationing armed guards outside to keep him under virtual house arrest. Hadi, Prime Minister Khaled Bahah, and the cabinet resigned the following day, saying they could not continue to work under the conditions the Houthis had imposed. The rebel group welcomed Hadi's resignation, but continued to keep him under house arrest. The news prompted four southern governorates to announce they would disregard all orders from Sana'a. The House of Representatives was to meet on 25 January to discuss whether to accept or reject Hadi's resignation under the Yemeni constitution, but the session was cancelled after the Houthis took control of the parliament building. The United Nations stepped in to attempt a negotiated resolution to what many in Yemen regarded as a Houthi coup.\n\nUN negotiations were fruitless, and a Houthi ultimatum to Yemen's political factions to find a solution was not met. On 6 February, the Houthis declared themselves in total control of the Yemeni government, dissolving parliament and installing a Revolutionary Committee led by Mohammed Ali al-Houthi to lead the state in an interim capacity. The announcement sparked protests in Sana'a and other cities, especially in the south.\n\nReactions to the Houthi takeover were broadly negative, with the Arab League, Gulf Cooperation Council, United Nations, and United States refusing to recognise the \"constitutional declaration\" and several governorates rejecting the Houthis' authority. With most political parties criticising the coup, Jamal Benomar, the UN envoy to Yemen, announced a resumption of national talks over the future of Yemen on 8 February. Benomar said the Houthis had agreed to participate in the talks. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called for Hadi to be reinstated as president.\n\nThe Houthis and other factions reached a tentative agreement, announced on 20 February, to keep the House of Representatives in place despite the \"constitutional declaration\" dissolving it two weeks prior. The agreement also stipulated that a \"people's transitional council\" would be established to represent southerners, women, youth, and other political minorities. The next day, Hadi traveled to Aden, where he said all Houthi-directed actions since 21 September 2014 were invalid, and condemned the coup d'état.\n\nFighting broke out over Aden International Airport on 19 March, with special forces loyal to ex-president Ali Abdullah Saleh attempting to seize the airport before they were defeated by troops and militiamen under orders from the Hadi administration. The following day, in an apparently unrelated incident, four suicide bombers detonated themselves in Sana'a mosques packed with Houthi congregants, killing at least 142. The Sunni Islamist group Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant's Yemen branch claimed responsibility.\n\nHadi declared Aden to be Yemen's temporary capital on 21 March while Sana'a remains under Houthi control. The next day, Houthi forces advanced toward Aden, capturing key parts of Yemen's third city of Taiz. They consolidated their grip on much of the south and seized much of Aden itself by early April.\n\nOn 26 March, Saudi Arabia and several other countries announced that they had begun military operations in Yemen against Houthi rebels. Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates issued a statement along with Saudi Arabia saying their goal is to \"repel Houthi aggression\" in Yemen. Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, and Sudan are also members of the coalition.\n\nIn addition to airstrikes against targets throughout Yemen, which the General People's Congress blamed for causing dozens of civilian casualties, Egyptian warships reportedly shelled a Houthi column as it advanced toward Aden on 30 March, and Saudi and Houthi forces traded artillery and rocket fire across the border between Saudi Arabia and Yemen.\n\nThe 8 October 2016 attack by the Saudi Arabian-led coalition killed at least 140 people and injured more than 600 in Sana'a. This was one of the single worst death tolls in the two-year war. Saudi Arabia and its allies accepted the internal review's finding, by the Joint Incidents Assessment Team (JIAT), that the coalition's bombardment of this funeral ceremony was based on faulty information, i.e., that this was a gathering of armed Houthi leaders.\n\nA severe cholera epidemic has begun in Yemen during the civil war. In July 2017, the United Nations Humanitarian Relief coordinator said that over 320,000 cases had been reported. He also blamed the epidemic on the war and on international forces supporting the combatants. As of October 2017, it was described as already the worst cholera outbreak in recorded history, with over 800,000 cases.\n\n\n"}
