{"id": "38564068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38564068", "title": "1847 in philosophy", "text": "1847 in philosophy\n\n1847 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "556448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=556448", "title": "Altan Khan", "text": "Altan Khan\n\nAltan Khan of the Tümed (1507–1582; ; Chinese: 阿爾坦汗), whose given name was Anda ( in Mongolian; 俺答 in Chinese), was the leader of the Tümed Mongols, Shunyi Wang (Prince of Shunyi, Chinese: 顺义王) of Ming dynasty China, and de facto ruler of the Right Wing, or western tribes, of the Mongols. He was the grandson of Dayan Khan (1464–1543), a descendant of Kublai Khan (1215–1294), who had managed to unite a tribal league between the Khalkha Mongols in the north and the Chahars (Tsakhars) to the south. His name means \"Golden Khan\" in the Mongolian language.\n\nBorjigin Barsboladiin Altan was the second son of Bars Bolud Jinong, and a grandson of Batumongke Dayan Khan who had re-unified the Mongolian nobility in an attempt to regain the glory of the Yuan dynasty. Altan Khan ruled the Tümed and belonged to the Right Wing of the Mongols along with his elder brother Gün Bilig, who ruled the Ordos. After Gün Bilig's death in 1542, Altan became the de facto leader of the whole of the Right Wing and was given the title, \"Tösheetü Sechen Khan\".\n\nWhen Bodi Alagh Khan, the Khagan of the Mongols from the Chahar, died in 1547, Altan forced Bodi Alagh's successor Darayisung Küdeng Khan to flee eastward. In 1551 Darayisung made a compromise with Altan in exchange for giving the title \"Gegeen Khan\" to him. Altan Khan, who controlled the Ordos tumen of the Huang He or Yellow River was well placed to keep pressure on the Chinese and the Oirat Mongols in Tibet while developing both agriculture and trade. In 1571, Altan Khan was granted the title Prince of Shunyi (\"Obedient and Righteous prince\") from the Longqing Emperor, the 12th emperor of Ming dynasty. He swore that he would be part of China forever and never betray.\n\nAltan Khan also founded the city of Köke Khota (Hohhot, meaning \"The Blue City\"), now the capital of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of the People's Republic of China. There is an impressive statue of him in one of the city's main squares.\n\nAltan Khan is particularly remembered for establishing ties between Mongolia and the religious leaders of the Tibetan Gelug order. Altan Khan first invited 3rd Dalai Lama to Tümed in 1569, but apparently he refused to go and sent a disciple instead, who reported back to him about the great opportunity to spread Buddhist teachings throughout Mongolia. In 1571, Altan Khan got the title Prince of Shunyi (\"Obedient and Righteous Prince\") from Longqing Emperor (March 4, 1537- July 5, 1572), the 12th emperor of China (Ming dynasty). In 1573, Altan Khan took some Tibetan Buddhist monks prisoner. Prince of Shunyi's capital was given new name Guihua meaning \"return to civilization. He became very interested in Gelukpa, and Beijing was happy to provide him with Tibetan lamas, Tibetan scriptures, and translations.\n\nSonam Gyatso accepted Altan Khan's invitation to Tümed in 1577. Altan Khan later had Thegchen Chonkhor, Mongolia's first monastery, built at the place of the meeting. Also, the ruler of the Khalkha Mongols, Abtai Sain Khan, rushed to Tümed to meet the Dalai Lama. The Erdene Zuu Monastery () was built by him in 1586, at the site of the former Mongol capital of Karakorum following his adoption of Buddhism as the state religion. This monastery is also often (wrongly) referred to as the first monastery in Mongolia and it grew into a massive establishment. In 1792, it contained 62 temples and some 10,000 lamas.\n\nSonam Gyatso publicly announced that he was a reincarnation of the Tibetan Sakya monk Drogön Chögyal Phagpa (1235–1280) who converted Kublai Khan, while Altan Khan was a reincarnation of Kublai Khan (1215–1294), the famous ruler of the Mongol Empire and Emperor of China, and that they had come together again to cooperate in propagating the Buddhist religion.\n\nAltan Khan designated Sonam Gyatso as \"Dalai\" (a translation into Mongolian of the name Gyatso, meaning \"ocean\"). As a result, Sonam Gyatso became known as the Dalai Lama which, since then, has been used as a title – frequently translated into English as \"Ocean of Wisdom\". The title was also posthumously given to Gendun Drup and Gendun Gyatso, who were considered Sonam Gyatso's previous incarnations. Thus, Sonam Gyatso was recognized as being already the 3rd Dalai Lama.\n\nSonam Gyatso never returned to Tibet but remained proselytizing among the Mongols. The Tümed Mongols and their allies were brought into the Gelug tradition, which was to become the main spiritual orientation of the Mongols in the ensuing centuries.\n\nSonam Gyatso's message was that the time had come for Mongolia to embrace Buddhism, that from that time on there should be no more animal sacrifices, there must be no taking of life, animal or human, military action must be pursued only with purpose and the immolation of women on the funeral pyres of their husbands must be abolished. He also secured an edict abolishing the Mongol custom of blood-sacrifices. \"These and many other such laws were set forth by Gyalwa Sonam Gyatso and were instituted by Altan Khan.\"\n\nA massive program of translating Tibetan (and Sanskrit) texts into Mongolian was commenced, with letters written in silver and gold and paid for by the Dalai Lama's Mongolian devotees. Within 50 years virtually all Mongols had become Buddhist, with tens of thousands of monks, who were members of the Gelug order, loyal to the Dalai Lama.\n\nWhen Sonam Gyatso died in 1588, his incarnation – and thus, the new Dalai Lama – was Altan Khan's great-grandson.\n\nAltan Khan used his military strength to threaten the Ming dynasty of China. He led raids into inland China in 1529, 1530 and 1542 returning with plunder and livestock. In 1550 he crossed the Great Wall and besieged Beijing, setting the suburbs on fire. In 1552 Altan Khan gained control of the remains of Karakorum, the old Mongol capital. The Chinese emperor was forced to grant special trading rights to the khanate, after signing a peace treaty with him in 1571, allowing it to trade horses for silks, which further strengthened it economically. The Chinese also granted him the title of Prince of Shunyi (\"Obedient and Righteous prince\"). During his reign he made several successful military campaigns to the west against rebellious Oirats, Kazakhs, and Kyrgyz, bringing them back under his rule.\n\nAltan Khan died in 1582, only four years after meeting with the Third Dalai Lama. He was 74 or 75 years old at the time.\n\nAltan Khan's title Prince of Shunyi was succeeded by his son Sengge Düüreng who was supported by the Ming court. Altan Khan's great-grandson, Yonten Gyatso, was selected as the 4th Dalai Lama.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43734743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43734743", "title": "Anita Moorjani", "text": "Anita Moorjani\n\nAnita Moorjani (born Anita Shamdasani) (born 16 March 1959) is a \"New York Times\" best selling author of the book \"Dying to be Me\", speaker, and intercultural consultant for multinational corporations. In 2006, after suffering cancer for almost four years, Anita's organs started shutting down and she slipped into a deep coma. She was in coma for 30 hours. She was rushed to the hospital where she claims to have crossed into the afterlife during what is often referred to as a Near Death Experience (NDE).\n\nMoorjani was born to Indian parents Hargobind (father) and Neelu (mother) Shamdasani in Singapore. Shortly after her birth, her family moved to Sri Lanka, and then at age two, moved to Hong Kong, where she and her older brother Anoop grew up. Anita and her brother both studied in British schools. As an ethnic minority in a majority British school, Moorjani says she was often the victim of bullying. Moorjani's parents are Indian, and because of her diverse cultural background, grew up multilingual, speaking Sindhi (an Indian language), Cantonese (a Chinese dialect) and English simultaneously.\n\nIn February 2002, while living and working in Hong Kong, Moorjani was diagnosed with lymphoma after finding a lump on her neck. Initially, Moorjani rejected conventional medicine. She had watched several people close to her die of cancer, including her brother-in-law and her best friend, despite extensive conventional treatments. Over the months that ensued, Moorjani experimented with various alternative healing practices, but to no avail. She subsequently underwent several conventional cancer treatments. However, by that point, despite these treatments, her doctors informed her and her family that it was \"too late\" to save her life. The lymphoma had spread throughout her body and had metastasized. Moorjani had large lemon sized tumors all over her upper body from her neck to her abdomen. Her body would no longer absorb nourishment, her lungs were perpetually filled with fluid that needed to be drained regularly, and she was connected to piped oxygen. On 2 February 2006, she fell into a deep coma. The doctors told her family that her body had gone into organ failure and she was in her final hours of life.\n\nMoorjani came out of the coma thirty hours later and told her family that during her NDE, she had been greeted by her deceased father and deceased best friend, who had told her that it was not her time to die. During those 30 hours, Moorjani experienced many characteristic details of a near death experience as well as details unique to her. Her account includes an out-of-body experience with observations and awareness of physical surroundings. Moorjani said she had a strong reluctance to return to her suffering and dying physical body, but was encouraged to return by her father and best friend who told her that she needed to return and to \"live her life fearlessly\".\n\nSubsequent to coming out of her coma, Moorjani experienced a spontaneous healing. Her tumors shrunk by about 70% within four days, and within five weeks, she was cancer-free and released from hospital, although she had to spend a few months in physiotherapy to regain her strength and the use of all her muscles and limbs.\n\nShortly after her full recovery, Moorjani started sharing her story and the insights she gained from her NDE on the internet. She submitted the description of her NDE and subsequent healing to the Near Death Experience Research Foundation (NDERF) website, a site owned and run by oncologist Dr. Jeffrey Long and his wife, Jody Long, a family law attorney . NDERF is a site dedicated to NDE research and within hours of submitting her story, Moorjani was contacted by Dr. Long, who questioned Moorjani further to verify her case, and subsequently posted her story on the home page of his website as he felt hers was an \"exceptional NDE\". Although NDERF has thousands of NDE stories, Moorjani's story went viral, and created enormous interest on an international scale.\n\nShortly after her recovery, The University of Hong Kong learned of Anita's spontaneous remission from her oncologist, who introduced Moorjani to the head of the Department of Behavioral Sciences. She was then invited to address the faculty and students on a regular basis, to speak about topics such as facing death, facing a prognosis of terminal illness, dealing with cancer, how to support someone with a terminal illness, fear and stress from illness, and so on.\n\nAs her story was further promulgated via the internet, people from all over the globe began contacting her through the NDERF website to ask questions about her NDE and to seek advice or counsel. She subsequently set up her own website, and soon received hundreds of emails a week from people wanting to know more about her experience or how to deal with illness and other topics germane to her experience.\n\nHer story came to the attention of American self-help author, Dr. Wayne Dyer, who contacted his publishers, Hay House, asking them to locate Moorjani and suggest that she write a book, which they would publish.\n\n\"Dying to be Me\" was published in March 2012, and hit \"The New York Times\" bestsellers list two weeks after its release. Moorjani was then invited to be on Wayne Dyer's PBS special titled \"Wishes Fulfilled\", and since then, has been interviewed on \"Fox And Friends\"; CNN's \"Anderson Cooper 360\"; National Geographic International, Karen Davila's Headstart on ANC Philippines, among many others. \"Dying to be Me\" has subsequently sold over a million copies worldwide, and has been published in more than 40 languages.\n\nAs a featured Hay House author, Anita travels the globe on behalf of her publisher speaking at conferences such as I Can Do It and gives seminars to large audiences at Conferences such as UPLIFT, and TEDx.\n\nOn 15 April 2015, Deadline reported that the New York Times best selling book \"Dying To Be Me\" has been optioned to internationally acclaimed producer Ridley Scott's company Ridley Scott Films.\n\nIn January 2016, Moorjani's case attracted the attention of Dr. Oz, who scrutinized her medical records, and subsequently invited her to be on his show, which aired on 10 March 2016.\n\nMoorjani asserts that her cancer was caused by her emotional state, and preaches the message that a person's physical health is affected by their emotional well being.\n\nSkeptics criticize the message that Anita speaks. Vicky Allen, journalist at The Herald Scotland, states \"These people are at the centre of a disturbing approach to illness, and cancer in particular, that sees it as a disease to be tackled with the mind and positive thinking. It is a movement which many within the medical establishment believe is dangerous.\" Dr Peter Allmark of Sheffield Hallam University, co-author of a 2011 paper, A Critique Of Positive Thinking In Cancer Care, denounces the approach as \"quackery\". However, Moorjani herself says that her experience cannot be reduced to positive thinking or mind control.\n\nOncologist haematologist T.K. Chan, who treated Moorjani at the critical stage of her illness, ascribed her recovery to the draining of her lungs carried out by medical specialists after she was admitted to hospital, followed by chemotherapy which she had refused for three and a half years. Chan stated \"with lymphoma, it's never too late\" and \"Hodgkin's disease is quite curable .. it can have a dramatic response to chemotherapy\". However, Peter Ko, MD, an assistant clinical professor at the University of California, heard about Moorjani's recovery and decided to investigate. He gained access, with her permission, to her medical records. He concluded: \"Her recovery was certainly remarkable. Based on my own experience and opinions of several colleagues, I am unable to attribute her dramatic recovery to her chemotherapy.\"\n\nMoorjani met her husband, Danny Moorjani in Hong Kong, and they married in December 1995. She also has an elder brother, Anoop Shamdasani. When she is not traveling and speaking at conferences all over the globe, Anita spends part of her time in Hong Kong and part of her time in California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35368667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35368667", "title": "Anna Camaiti Hostert", "text": "Anna Camaiti Hostert\n\nAnna Camaiti Hostert (born July 19, 1949, in Florence, Italy) is an Italian American philosopher and a scholar of Visual Studies. She lives and works between Italy and the United States.\n\nShe obtained her degree in Philosophy at the University of Pisa (Italy) defending a dissertation with the philosopher Nicola Badaloni. Then she received a Ph.D in Literature and Film from the University of Chicago. She has taught at Loyola University of Chicago, at the University of Illinois, Chicago, and at the University of Rome La Sapienza (Italy). She was \"Visiting Professor\" at the University of Southern California (USC) in Los Angeles and at the Florence campus of the New York University (NYU) Tisch School of Cinema. She was also \"Distinguished Visiting Professor\" at Florida Atlantic University (FAU) in Boca Raton. She was Acting Associate Dean at the Loyola University’s campus in Rome.\n\nIn 1999 she founded along the philosopher Mario Perniola the magazine \"Agalma: Magazine of Aesthetic and Cultural Studies\" of whose editorial committee she is still a member.\n\nSince 1986 she has been part of the Italian Bar Association of Journalists and for several years the press attaché to the Governor of Tuscany Region. Later, she had a TV program about cinema on RaiSat channel titled \"Metix\" from the title of one of her books. She has been a guest at numerous Film Festivals in Italy and of several TV and radio cultural programs. She has collaborated with the director Fiorella Infascelli in the movie \"Italiani\" presented at the Venice Film Festival in 1998.\n\nShe has written for the newspaper \"Il Manifesto\" .\n\nThe initial period of Camaiti Hostert’s research focused on the history of political philosophy following the methodological analysis of Nicola Badaloni, under whose tutelage she studied at the University of Pisa. In her first work, \"Giuseppe Toniolo. Alle origini del partito cattolico\" (1984; \"Giuseppe Toniolo. The origins of the Catholic Party\") – that resulted from her dissertation in Philosophy – she traced the intellectual biography of the thinker Giuseppe Toniolo, by retrieving his prominent figure in the Catholic Movement, and casting light on his role in the subsequent foundation of the first Catholic Party in its relationship with the Marxist concept of the main political subject.\n\nThe same historical-philosophical perspective defines also the second work by Camaiti Hostert titled \"Politica e diritto di resistenza. Kant ed Erhard: democrazia e libertà del soggetto\" (1987, \"The Politics and the Right of Resistance. Kant and Erhard: Democracy and Human Freedom\"). In this work Camaiti Hostert has traced the relationship between the German Jacobinism, of which Johann Benjamin Erhard is one of the most representative authors, and Kant’s theory of Public Right, Political Will and Civil Liberty. Through the concepts of «resistance» and «insurrection», she interprets Erhard’s theses as an attempt to build a theory of the antagonistic subject.\n\nBecause of her intellectual, academic and existential relation with the United States and with the socio-cultural dynamics of this country, Camaiti Hostert first developed themes related to comparative literature (see for instance her afterword to the American edition of the Dacia Maraini’s novel, \"The Silent Duchess\", Feminist Press 1998) and then has moved towards the Cultural studies with the analysis of the post-colonial theories, especially by focusing on the subaltern subject and on identity construction.\n\nThrough this research, Camaiti Hostert engages a sometimes critical confrontation with many important cultural theorists like Edward Said, Stuart Hall and Homi K. Bhabha and with political thinkers, like Antonio Gramsci. Her major work in this field of investigation is \"Passing. Dissolvere le identità, superare le differenze\" (\"Passing. A Strategy to Dissolve Identities and Remap Differences\"). Dealing with the complex theme of Alterity as it relates to the Italian women’s movement, especially to the works of Carla Lonzi and the theories of sexual difference, the analysis of \"Passing\" tackles the feminist studies, particularly the point of convergence between post-colonial and gender studies (Gayatri C. Spivak, bell hooks, Teresa de Lauretis, Rosi Braidotti) and from that point it expands its reflection to the process of formation of any ethnic and sexual identity.\n\nVisual Studies - that were born as a field of interdisciplinary research on the wake of the Anglo-American Cultural Studies – have become since the late ‘90s the focus of Camaiti Hostert’s research. In \"Metix. Cinema globale e cultura visuale\" (Meltemi 2004, \"Metix. Global Cinema and Visual Culture\") - work that collects Camaiti Hostert’s findings during those years - she has analyzed the structure of the vision, the dynamics of the gaze and the processes of images production in contemporary cinema (mainly American cinema, but not only Hollywood).\n\nVisual Studies in general and Camaiti Hostert’s work in particular, interpret images not as isolated objects, but as clusters of several practices which change use and meaning of the images themselves: if cinema represents the medium from which Camaiti Hostert’s analysis has begun, her analysis expands to all visual languages, including TV, advertisings, Internet. The pivotal passage of the text is the transition from the idea that an image is able to mean something, to the understanding that this ability is tied with the formation of the subject identity.\n\nAccording to Camaiti Hostert’s theory Visual Studies show the similarities between the analysis of the visual culture and the analysis of the construction of cultural, gender and ethnic identities and differences, with particular attention to the unmasking of visual stereotypes that have represented the various forms of marginality.\n\nThis work is linked to Camaiti Hostert’s parallel research into the field of Film Studies. Regarding this domain of studies, the two particularly relevant essays collection (both edited in 2002) are \"Sentire il cinema\" (2002; \"Feeling Cinema\") - entirely composed of Camaiti Hostert’s essays and interviews (with directors such Bernardo Bertolucci, Fiorella Infascelli, Wilma Labate and Mario Martone) – and \"Scene italoamericane. Rappresentazioni cinematografiche degli italiani d’America\" edited with the Italian American scholar Anthony Julian Tamburri (Luca Sossella editore 2002, American edition \"Screening Ethnicity. Cinematographic Representations of Italian Americans in the United States\", Bordighera Press, 2002 ), including essays by Ben Lawton, Fred Gardaphé, Alberto Abruzzese among others as well as by Camaiti Hostert and Tamburri.\n\n"}
{"id": "14702448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14702448", "title": "Anthroposophic pharmacy", "text": "Anthroposophic pharmacy\n\nAnthroposophic pharmacy is the discipline related to conceiving, developing and producing medicinal products according to the anthroposophic understanding of man, nature, substance and pharmaceutical processing.\nOne of the most characteristic features of anthroposophic medicine is the attempt to describe health and natural medicine in scientific as well as in spiritual terms. Anthroposophic pharmacy utilises vegetable, mineral and animal materials, manufactured according to particular principles and is sometimes potentised.\n\nAnthroposophic medicines should be considered as complementary to conventional medicines and are often used in combination with them.\n\nIn 2005, a health technology assessment (HTA) produced the first systematic review of the efficacy, utility, costs and safety of anthroposophic medicine as part of the Swiss Government's evaluation of complementary medicine (PEK). The report concluded that there are many studies that show positive outcomes for anthroposophic medicine, although the methodological quality of the studies is very variable. In terms of safety almost all studies emphasise the good tolerability of anthroposophic medicinal therapies.\n\nThe conclusion of the PEK process was that there was insufficient evidence to support reimbursement of any of the five therapies investigated, including both anthroposophic medicine and homeopathy.\n\nThe manufacture and use of anthroposophic medicines dates back to Rudolf Steiner (1861–1925), who together with Dr Ita Wegman (1876–1943) invented anthroposophic medicine at the beginning of the 20th century. Steiner and Wegman's ideas were extended by the chemist Dr Oskar Schmiedel (1887–1959), who manufactured anthroposophic medicines from 1920 onwards and introduced the newly conceived formulations and manufacturing processes into pharmaceutical practice. A second important pioneer of anthroposophic pharmacy was Dr Rudolf Hauschka (1891–1969).\n\nAnthroposophic medicine is now practised in over 60 countries, and for example in Germany is recognised as a special therapy system in the Medicinal Product Act (Arzneimittelgesetz) and in the Code of Social Law (Sozialgesetzbuch) V (Paragraph 34, section 3). There are approximately 15,000 doctors in 22 European countries who prescribe anthroposophic medicinal products, e.g. in Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy. It is estimated that in Germany some 6 million patients use anthroposophic medicine. According to the German Pharmaceutical Industry Association (BPI), for example, anthroposophicals reached a turnover in 2011 of 52.8 million Euro (Data March 2013).\n\nThere are about 1,700 different anthroposophic medicinal products on the market in the European Union. Within the EU there are differing rules as to whether or not an anthroposophic medicine must be prescribed by a doctor. In Germany, for example, most preparations are not prescription-only, and since 2004 must be paid for by the patient himself.\n\nAnthroposophic medicinal products rely on anthroposophical ideas of the relationship between man and nature: \"The starting materials of these products come from minerals, plants and animal substances. They are developed and manufactured in accordance with the anthroposophic perception of human beings and nature\".\n\nThe philosophy posits four levels of the human being and three systems by which they interact. The following table explains the correlation between the four different levels of the human being and the realms of nature as it is understood in anthroposophic pharmacy:\n\"Anthroposophic pharmaceutical processing\" involves specific anthroposophic and some typical homoeopathic pharmaceutical procedures. The ingredients of anthroposophic medicines are all of natural origin: used are mineral/metallic, vegetable or mineral raw materials e.g. quartz, sulphur, gold, copper, silver, arnica, chamomile or marigold. Animal testing is not used in the development of anthroposophic medicinal products.\n\nAnthroposophic medicines are manufactured principally using rhythmical processes and/or heat. Examples of typical anthroposophic pharmaceutical processes using raw materials of botanical origin are:\nThese pharmaceutical processes are specified in the European Pharmacopoeia, the Pharmacopoeia Helvetica (Ph.Helv.), the German Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia (GHP/HAB), the Anthroposophic Pharmaceutical Codex (APC), and the British Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia (B.Hom.P.).\n\nAnother pharmaceutical process often used in anthroposophic pharmacy is \"potentisation\", which is also widely used in homoeopathy. Potentised preparations are gradually diluted substances, whereby at each diluting step a rhythmic shaking and striking against a resilient surface (\"succussion\") are involved. The principle of potentisation is not supported by any significant body of scientific evidence (see \"homeopathic dilutions\").\n\n\"Anthroposophic medicinal products are produced in accordance with the modern standards of Good Manufacturing Practice GMP. Their quality is controlled by the criteria and parameters of official pharmacopoeia (e.g. European Pharmacopoeia (Ph.Eur.), German Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia (GHP/HAB), French Pharmacopoeia (Ph.fr.), Pharmacopoeia Helvetica (Ph.Helv.), and the Anthroposophic Pharmaceutical Codex (APC)\".\n\nDetailed pharmaceutical information for quality control and regulatory needs is provided in the Anthroposophic Pharmaceutical Codex that is issued by the International Association of Anthroposophic Pharmacists (IAAP), the umbrella organisation for the national professional anthroposophic pharmacists’ associations in Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18417495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18417495", "title": "Arthur Galston", "text": "Arthur Galston\n\nArthur W. Galston (April 21, 1920 – June 15, 2008) was an American botanist and bioethicist. As a plant biologist, Galston studied the effects of light on plant development. He identified riboflavin and other flavins as photoreceptors involved in phototropism, the bending of plants toward light, challenging the prevailing view that carotene was responsible.\n\nAs a graduate student in 1943, Galston studied the use of 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA) to encourage the flowering of soybeans, and noted that high levels had a defoliant effect. The British and U.S. military later developed TIBA into Agent Orange which was employed extensively in Malaya and Vietnam. Galston became a bioethicist, and spoke out against such uses of science. As chairman of Yale's botany department, Galston's ethical objections led President Nixon to end the use of Agent Orange.\n\nGalston was the youngest child of Hyman and Freda Galston. He grew up in a Jewish family in Brooklyn, impoverished during the Great Depression. Inspired by doctors like microbiologist Paul de Kruif but unable to afford medical school, Galston enrolled at Cornell's Agricultural College which was free for citizens of New York State. He played saxophone in jazz and swing bands to earn living expenses.\n\nGalston's original intention was to attend Cornell Veterinary School after his freshman year. \nHowever, under the influence of botany professor Loren C. Petry he came to love botany, turned down an acceptance to Cornell Veterinary School, and earned a B.S. in botany from Cornell instead in 1940.\n\nThe University of Illinois offered Galston a teaching assistantship for graduate work, so he went to Champaign-Urbana to study botany and biochemistry. He worked with plant physiologist Harry J. Fuller and botanist Oswald Tippo. Fuller, although nominally his advisor, was sent to South America on war-related research and was unavailable much of the time. Galston completed his M.Sc. in 1942 and his Ph.D. in 1943. It was a wartime requirement that the doctorate be completed in three years.\n\nGalston's Ph.D. dissertation was titled \"Physiology of flowering, with especial reference to floral initiation in soybeans\" (1943). His research focused on finding a chemical means to make soybeans flower and fruit earlier, so that they could mature before the end of the growing season. He discovered both that 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA) would speed up the flowering of soybeans. He also noted that in higher concentrations it would defoliate the soybeans by causing them to release ethylene.\n\nDuring World War II, the Imperial Japanese Army captured most of the world's rubber plantations in British Malaya, causing a natural rubber shortage for the Allied armies.\nNatural rubber came from the rubber tree, Hevea brasiliensis, a native of South America that was commercially grown in Southeast Asia. The United States government established a research program to develop synthetic rubber, and also encouraged research into botanical alternatives. Guayule, whose sap could be used to produce latex, was considered a possible substitute for rubber. Galston was recommended to James F. Bonner by H. E. Carter, and spent a year working with Bonner at Caltech in Pasadena, California to develop rubber tires from guayule. By the end of 1944, the U.S. had achieved success with synthetic, petroleum-based rubber, and interest in guayule research lessened.\n\nIn July 1944, Galston was drafted into the U.S. Navy as an enlisted man. He ultimately served as Natural Resources officer in Naval Military Government on Okinawa until his discharge in 1946.\n\nAfter a year as an instructor at Yale University in 1946-1947, Galston returned to the California Institute of Technology to work with James Bonner as a senior research fellow. While at Caltech, Galston made an important discovery. He identified riboflavin as a photoreceptor involved in the bending of plants toward light. This overturned a commonly held belief that carotene was the photoreceptor involved in phototropism.\n\nIn 1950 Galston accepted a Guggenheim Fellowship to spend a year working with Hugo Theorell at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden. Upon his return to Caltech in 1951, Galston became tenured as an associate professor. His supporters included Bonner and Frits Warmolt Went, both of whom were senior plant biology researchers at Caltech. He co-taught classes in biology with George Beadle, who was then chairman of the biology department.\n\nIn 1955, Galston was offered a full professorship at Yale University by Oswald Tippo, chair of the botany department. In addition to a significant increase in salary and position, it was an opportunity for leadership in an expanding department. Yale, in New Haven, Connecticut, was also closer to family members in New York City and work opportunities for Galston's wife, Dale Judith Kuntz. Galston accepted the offer, and taught at Yale from 1955 onwards.\n\nAt Yale, Galston continued to do research in the areas of auxin physiology, photobiology, plant hormones, protoplasts and polyamines. Using microspectrophotometric measurements, he was the first researcher to report that phytochromes were located in plant nuclei, a result that would be confirmed using molecular techniques over 30 years later.\n\nAt Yale, increasing amounts of Galston's time were spent in administrative roles. He served as chair of the Departments of Botany and Biology, the university-wide Course of Study Committee, and the Committee on Teaching and Learning. He was also director of the Biological Sciences Division. Following mandatory retirement from the biology department in 1990, he became the Eaton Professor Emeritus in the Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology as well as professor emeritus in the School of Forestry & Environmental Studies. He continued to lecture and write after his retirement, in his second career as a bioethicist. \nHe was president of the Botanical Society of America and of the American Society of Plant Physiologists (1962-1963).\n\nGalston supervised 24 Ph.D. and 67 postdoctoral students from around the world. He authored more than 320 papers and several books on plant physiology, as well as co-editing two books on bioethics.\n\nIn 1951, biological warfare scientists at Fort Detrick, Maryland began investigating defoliants based upon Galston's Ph.D. discoveries with TIBA. They eventually produced the toxic defoliant Agent Orange used by the British Air Force during the Malayan Emergency and the U.S. Air Force during the Vietnam War.\n\nGalston was deeply affected by this development of his research. In 1972, he described his viewpoint:\n\nWhile the United States government argued that herbicides like Agent Orange did not qualify as chemical weapons, Galston asserted that their use was a violation of the United Nations Resolution of December 5, 1966 against the wartime use of “asphyxiating, poisonous or other gases” and “analogous liquids, materials or devices”. He was clear about the devastating impact of their use on the environment, and warned of the likelihood that they were harmful to animals and humans as well as plants. Galston visited Vietnam and China, viewing the environmental damage in Vietnam first-hand.\n\nBeginning in 1965, Galston lobbied both his scientific colleagues and the government to stop using Agent Orange. \nGalston and U.S. geneticist Matthew S. Meselson appealed to the U. S. Department of Defense to investigate the human toxicology of Agent Orange. The research conducted by the Department of Defense led to the discovery that Agent Orange caused birth defects in laboratory rats. In 1971 this information led to U.S. President Richard M. Nixon banning the use of the substance. Later research showed that Agent Orange contained high levels of teratogenic dioxins.\n\nWith Ethan Signer of MIT, Galston was one of the first two American scientists invited to visit the People's Republic of China. In 1971, he met Chou En-lai, then Prime Minister, as well as King Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia, who then resided in Shanghai. The visit was reported in \"The New York Times\". Galston's experiences on visits to China led him to write \"Daily life in people's China\" (1973).\n\nGalston taught bioethics to Yale undergraduates from 1977 to 2004. In 2003-2004 his introductory bioethics course attracted 460 students, making it one of the most popular courses in Yale College. After his retirement as a biologist in 1990, he became affiliated with Yale's Institution for Social & Policy Studies, where he helped to found the Interdisciplinary Center for Bioethics.\n\nGalston also co-founded the National Senior Conservation Corps (Grey is Green), a non-profit organization dedicated to helping older Americans to create positive environmental change and lead more sustainable lives.\n\nIn 1966, Galston successfully nominated Duke Ellington to receive an honorary doctorate from Yale. The Duke received the honor in 1967, but Galston was unable to attend, and did not meet him until 1972.\n\nArthur Galston died of congestive heart failure on June 15, 2008, in Hamden, Connecticut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56998563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56998563", "title": "Asim Mujkić", "text": "Asim Mujkić\n\nAsim Mujkić (born 11 May 1968) is a Bosnian philosopher and sociologist. Educated at the University of Sarajevo, he works in the areas of ethics, phenomenology, philosophy of existence, philosophy of identity, social and political theory and theories on ethnicity. He has written particularly extensively on ethnicity and identity, ethnic phenomenology, existentialism, and on the works and thought of Richard Rorty and John Rawls. He is a professor at the University of Sarajevo.\n\nHe studied philosophy and sociology at the University of Sarajevo where he graduated in 1991. He earned his post-graduate degree from the same institution in 1998 with a thesis on the neopragmatism of Richard Rorty. In 2002 he earned his PhD with a thesis on the antiessentialist character of the philosophy of pragmatism. He was named Centennial Professor and head of the departament of philosophy at the Faculty of Political Science in Sarajevo, lecturing on the subjects of introductory philosophy, ethics and political ethics. He is the chairman of the Association of Bosnian political scientists, as well as the deputy editor-in-chief of the Odjek journal for the arts and humanities. He is one of the founders of the Open University of Sarajevo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13385217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13385217", "title": "Cartesian Meditations", "text": "Cartesian Meditations\n\nCartesian Meditations: An Introduction to Phenomenology () is a book by the philosopher Edmund Husserl, based on four lectures he gave at the Sorbonne, in the Amphithéatre Descartes on February 23 and 25, 1929. Over the next two years, he and his assistant Eugen Fink expanded and elaborated on the text of these lectures. These expanded lectures were first published in a 1931 French translation by Gabrielle Peiffer and Emmanuel Levinas with advice from Alexandre Koyré. They were published in German, along with the original \"Pariser Vortrage\", in 1950, and again in an English translation by Dorion Cairns in 1960, based on a typescript of the text (Typescript C) which Husserl had designated for Cairns in 1933.\n\nThe \"Cartesian Meditations\" were never published in German during Husserl's lifetime, a fact which has led some commentators to conclude that Husserl had become dissatisfied with the work in relation to its aim, namely an introduction to transcendental phenomenology. The text introduces the main features of Husserl's mature transcendental phenomenology, including (not exhaustively) the transcendental reduction, the epoché, static and genetic phenomenology, eidetic reduction, and eidetic phenomenology. In the Fourth Meditation, Husserl argues that transcendental phenomenology is nothing other than transcendental idealism.\nThe name \"Cartesian Meditations\" refers to René Descartes' \"Meditations on First Philosophy.\" Thus Husserl wrote:\nThe work is divided into five \"meditations\" of varying length, whose contents are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4839105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4839105", "title": "Co-operation (evolution)", "text": "Co-operation (evolution)\n\nIn evolution, co-operation is the process where groups of organisms work or act together for common or mutual benefits. It is commonly defined as any adaptation that has evolved, at least in part, to increase the reproductive success of the actor's social partners. For example, territorial choruses by male lions discourage intruders and are likely to benefit all contributors.\n\nThis process contrasts with intragroup competition where individuals work against each other for selfish reasons. Cooperation exists not only in humans but in other animals as well. The diversity of taxa that exhibits cooperation is quite large, ranging from zebra herds to pied babblers to African elephants. Many animal and plant species cooperate with both members of their own species and with members of other species.\n\nCooperation in animals appears to occur mostly for direct benefit or between relatives. Spending time and resources assisting a related individual may at first seem destructive to an organism's chances of survival but is actually beneficial over the long-term. Since relatives share part of the helper's genetic make-up, enhancing each individual's chance of survival may actually increase the likelihood that the helper's genetic traits will be passed on to future generations.\n\nHowever, some researchers, such as ecology professor Tim Clutton-Brock, assert that cooperation is a more complex process. They state that helpers may receive more direct, and less indirect, gains from assisting others than is commonly reported. These gains include protection from predation and increased reproductive fitness. Furthermore, they insist that cooperation may not solely be an interaction between two individuals but may be part of the broader goal of unifying populations.\n\nProminent biologists, such as Charles Darwin, E. O. Wilson, and W. D. Hamilton, have found the evolution of cooperation fascinating because natural selection favors those who achieve the greatest reproductive success while cooperative behavior often decreases the reproductive success of the actor (the individual performing the cooperative behavior). Hence, cooperation seemed to pose a challenging problem to the theory of natural selection, which rests on the assumption that individuals compete to survive and maximize their reproductive successes. Additionally, some species have been found to perform cooperative behaviors that may at first sight seem detrimental to their own evolutionary fitness. For example, when a ground squirrel sounds an alarm call to warn other group members of a nearby coyote, it draws attention to itself and increases its own odds of being eaten. There have been multiple hypotheses for the evolution of cooperation, all of which are rooted in Hamilton's models based on inclusive fitness. These models hypothesize that cooperation is favored by natural selection due to either direct fitness benefits (mutually beneficial cooperation) or indirect fitness benefits (altruistic cooperation). As explained below, direct benefits encompass by-product benefits and enforced reciprocity, while indirect benefits (kin selection) encompass limited dispersal, kin discrimination and the greenbeard effect.\n\nOne specific form of cooperation in animals is kin selection, which involves animals promoting the reproductive success of their kin, thereby promoting their own fitness.\n\nDifferent theories explaining kin selection have been proposed, including the \"pay-to-stay\" and \"territory inheritance\" hypotheses. The \"pay-to-stay\" theory suggests that individuals help others rear offspring in order to return the favor of the breeders allowing them to live on their land. The \"territory inheritance\" theory contends that individuals help in order to have improved access to breeding areas once the breeders depart.\n\nStudies conducted on red wolves support previous researchers' contention that helpers obtain both immediate and long-term gains from cooperative breeding. Researchers evaluated the consequences of red wolves' decisions to stay with their packs for extended periods of time after birth. While delayed dispersal helped other wolves' offspring, studies also found that it extended male helper wolves' life spans. This suggests that kin selection may not only benefit an individual in the long-term through increased fitness but also in the short-term through increased survival chances.\n\nSome research suggests that individuals provide more help to closer relatives. This phenomenon is known as kin discrimination. In their meta-analysis, researchers compiled data on kin selection as mediated by genetic relatedness in 18 species, including the western bluebird, pied kingfisher, Australian magpie, and dwarf mongoose. They found that different species exhibited varying degrees of kin discrimination, with the largest frequencies occurring among those who have the most to gain from cooperative interactions.\n\nCooperation exists not only in animals but also in plants. In a greenhouse experiment with \"Ipomoea hederacea\", a climbing plant, results show that kin groups have higher efficiency rates in growth than non-kin groups do. This is expected to rise out of reduced competition within the kin groups.\n\nThe inclusive fitness theory provides a good overview of possible solutions to the fundamental problem of cooperation. The theory is based on the hypothesis that cooperation helps in transmitting underlying genes to future generations either through increasing the reproductive successes of the individual (direct fitness) or of other individuals who carry the same genes (indirect fitness). Direct benefits can result from simple by-product of cooperation or enforcement mechanisms, while indirect benefits can result from cooperation with genetically similar individuals.\n\nThis is also called mutually beneficial cooperation as both actor and recipient depend on direct fitness benefits, which are broken down into two different types: by-product benefit and enforcement.\n\nBy-product benefit arises as a consequence of social partners having a shared interest in cooperation. For example, in meerkats, larger group size provides a benefit to all the members of that group by increasing survival rates, foraging success and conflict wins. This is because living in groups is better than living alone, and cooperation arises passively as a result of many animals doing the same thing. By-product benefit can also arise as a consequence of subordinate animals staying and helping a nest that is dominated by leaders who often suffer high mortality rates. It has been shown that cooperation would be most advantageous for the sex that is more likely to remain and breed in the natal group. This is because the subordinate will have a higher chance to become dominant in the group as time passes. Cooperation in this scenario is often seen between non-related members of the same species, such as the wasp \"Polistes dominula\".\n\nPrisoner's Delight, another term to describe by-product benefit, is a term coined by Kenneth Binmore in 2007 after he found that benefits can result as an automatic consequence of an otherwise \"self-interested\" act in cooperative hunting. He illustrated this with a scenario having two hunters, each hunter having the choice of hunting (cooperate) or not hunting (free-riding). Assuming that cooperative hunting results in greater rewards than just a one-player hunt, when hunting is not rare, both hunters and non-hunters benefit because either player is likely to be with other hunters, and thus likely to reap the rewards of a successful hunt. This situation demonstrates \"Prisoner's Delight\" because the food of a successful hunt is shared between the two players regardless of whether or not they participated.\n\nIt has been shown that free riding, or reaping the benefits without any effort, is often a problem in collective action. Examples of free riding would be if an employee in a labor union pays no dues, but still benefits from union representation. In a study published in 1995, scientists found that female lions showed individual differences in the extent to which they participated in group-territorial conflict. Some lions consistently 'cooperated' by approaching intruders, while others 'lagged' behind to avoid the risk of fighting. Although the lead female recognized the laggards, she failed to punish them, suggesting that cooperation is not maintained by reciprocity.\n\nCooperation is maintained in situations where free-riding is a problem through enforcement, which is the mechanism where the actor is rewarded for cooperating or punished for not cooperating. This happens when cooperation is favored in aiding those who have helped the actors in the past. Punishment for noncooperation has been documented in meerkats, where dominant females will attack and evict subordinate females who become pregnant. The pregnancy is seen as a failure to cooperate because only the dominant females are allowed to bear offspring. Dominant females will attack and kill the offspring of subordinate females if they evade eviction and eviction often leads to increased stress and decreased survival.\n\nEnforcement can also be mutually beneficial, and is often called reciprocal cooperation because the act of cooperation is preferentially directed at individuals who have helped the actor in the past (directly), or helped those who have helped the actor in the past (indirectly).\n\nThe second class of explanations for cooperation is indirect fitness benefits, or altruistic cooperation. There are three major mechanisms that generate this type of fitness benefit: limited dispersal, kin discrimination and the green-beard effect.\n\nHamilton originally suggested that high relatedness could arise in two ways: direct kin recognition between individuals or limited dispersal, or population viscosity, which can keep relatives together. The easiest way to generate relatedness between social partners is limited dispersal, a mechanism in which genetic similarity correlates with spatial proximity. If individuals do not move far, then kin usually surrounds them. Hence, any act of altruism would be directed primarily towards kin. This mechanism has been shown in \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" bacteria, where cooperation is disfavored when populations are well mixed, but favored when there is high local relatedness.\n\nKin discrimination also influences cooperation because the actor can give aid preferentially towards related partners. Since kin usually share common genes, it is thought that this nepotism can lead to genetic relatedness between the actor and the partner's offspring, which affects the cooperation an actor might give.\n\nThis mechanism is similar to what happens with the green-beard effect, but with the green-beard effect, the actor has to instead identify which of its social partners share the gene for cooperation. A green-beard system must always co-occur within individuals and alleles to produce a perceptible trait, recognition of this trait in others, and preferential treatment to those recognized. Examples of green-beard behavior have been found in hydrozoans, slime molds, yeast, and ants. An example is in side-blotch lizards, where blue-throated males preferentially establish territories next to each other. Results show that neighboring blue-throats are more successful at mate guarding. However, blue males next to larger, more aggressive orange males suffer a cost.\n\nMulti-level selection theory suggests that selection operates on more than one level: for example, it may operate at an atomic and molecular level in cells, at the level of cells in the body, and then again at the whole organism level, and the community level, and the species level. Any level which is not competitive with others of the same level will be eliminated, even if the level below is highly competitive. A classic example is that of genes which prevent cancer. Cancer cells divide uncontrollably, and at the cellular level, they are very successful, because they are (in the short term) reproducing very well and out competing other cells in the body. However, at the whole organism level, cancer is often fatal, and so may prevent reproduction. Therefore, changes to the genome which prevent cancer (for example, by causing damaged cells to act co-operatively by destroying themselves) are favoured. Multi-level selection theory contends that similar effects can occur, for example, to cause individuals to co-operate to avoid behaviours which favour themselves short-term, but destroy the community (and their descendants) long term.\n\nOne theory suggesting a mechanism that could lead to the evolution of co-operation is the \"market effect\" as suggested by Noe and Hammerstein. The mechanism relies on the fact that in many situations there exists a trade-off between efficiency obtaining a desired resource and the amount of resources one can actively obtain. In that case, each partner in a system could benefit from specializing in producing one specific resource and obtaining the other resource by trade. When only two partners exist, each can specialize in one resource, and trade for the other. Trading for the resource requires co-operation with the other partner and includes a process of bidding and bargaining.\n\nThis mechanism can be relied to both within a species or social group and within species systems. It can also be applied to a multi-partner system, in which the owner of a resource has the power to choose its co-operation partner. This model can be applied in natural systems (examples exist in the world of apes, cleaner fish, and more). Easy for exemplifying, though, are systems from international trading. Arabic countries control vast amounts of oil, but seek technologies from western countries. These in turn are in need of Arab oil. The solution is co-operation by trade.\n\nSymbiosis refers to two or more biological species that interact closely, often over a long period of time. Symbiosis includes three types of interactions—mutualism, commensalism, and parasitism—of which only mutualism can sometimes qualify as cooperation. Mutualism involves a close, mutually beneficial interaction between two different biological species, whereas \"cooperation\" is a more general term that can involve looser interactions and can be interspecific (between species) or intraspecific (within a species). In commensalism, one of the two participating species benefits, while the other is neither harmed nor benefitted. In parasitism, one of the two participating species benefits at the expense of the other.\n\nSymbiosis may be obligate or facultative. In obligate symbiosis, one or both species depends on the other for survival. In facultative symbiosis, the symbiotic interaction is not necessary for the survival of either species.\n\nTwo special types of symbiosis include endosymbiosis, in which one species lives inside of another, and ectosymbiosis, in which one species lives on another.\n\nMutualism is a form of symbiosis in which both participating species benefit.\n\nA classic example of mutualism is the interaction between rhizobia soil bacteria and legumes (Fabaceae). In this interaction, rhizobia bacteria induce root nodule formation in legume plants via an exchange of molecular signals. Within the root nodules, rhizobia fix atmospheric nitrogen into ammonia using the nitrogenase enzyme. The legume benefits from a new supply of usable nitrogen from the rhizobia, and the rhizobia benefits from organic acid energy sources from the plant as well as the protection provided by the root nodule. Since the rhizobia live within the legume, this is an example of endosymbiosis, and since both the bacteria and the plant can survive independently, it is also an example of facultative symbiosis.\n\nLichens are another example of mutualism. Lichens consist of a fungus (the mycobiont) and a photosynthetic partner (the photobiont), which is usually a green alga or a cyanobacteria. The mycobiont benefits from the sugar products of photosynthesis generated by the photobiont, and the photobiont benefits from the increased water retention and increased surface area to capture water and mineral nutrients conferred by the mycobiont. Many lichens are examples of obligate symbiosis. In fact, one-fifth of all known extant fungal species form obligate symbiotic associations with green algae, cyanobacteria or both.\n\nNot all examples of mutualism are also examples of cooperation. Specifically, in by-product mutualism, both participants benefit, but cooperation is not involved. For example, when an elephant defecates, this is beneficial to the elephant as a way to empty waste, and it is also beneficial to a dung beetle that uses the elephant's dung. However, neither participant's behavior yields a benefit from the other, and thus cooperation is not taking place.\n\nHidden benefits are benefits from cooperation that are not obvious because they are obscure or delayed. (For example, a hidden benefit would not involve an increase in the number of offspring or offspring viability.)\n\nOne example of a hidden benefit involves \"Malarus cyaneus\", the superb fairy-wren. In \"M. cyaneus\", the presence of helpers at the nest does not lead to an increase in chick mass. However, the presence of helpers does confer a hidden benefit: it increases the chance that a mother will survive to breed in the next year.\n\nAnother example of a hidden benefit is indirect reciprocity, in which a donor individual helps a beneficiary to increase the probability that observers will invest in the donor in the future, even when the donor will have no further interaction with the beneficiary.\n\nIn a study of 79 students, participants played a game in which they could repeatedly give money to others and receive from others. They were told that they would never interact with the same person in the reciprocal role. A player's history of donating was displayed at each anonymous interaction, and donations were significantly more frequent to receivers who had been generous to others in earlier interactions. Indirect reciprocity has only been shown to occur in humans.\n\nEven if all members of a group benefit from cooperation, individual self-interest may not favor cooperation. The prisoner's dilemma codifies this problem and has been the subject of much research, both theoretical and experimental. In its original form the prisoner's dilemma game (PDG) described two awaiting trial prisoners, A and B, each faced with the choice of betraying the other or remaining silent. The \"game\" has four possible outcomes: (a) they both betray each other, and are both sentenced to two years in prison; (b) A betrays B, which sets A free and B is sentenced to four years in prison; (c) B betrays A, with the same result as (b) except that it is B who is set free and the other spends four years in jail; (d) both remain silent, resulting in a six-month sentence each. Clearly (d) (\"cooperation\") is the best mutual strategy, but from the point of view of the individual betrayal is unbeatable (resulting in being set free, or getting only a two-year sentence). Remaining silent results in a four-year or six-month sentence. This is exemplified by a further example of the PDG: two strangers attend a restaurant together and decide to split the bill. The mutually best ploy would be for both parties to order the cheapest items on the menu (mutual cooperation). But if one member of the party exploits the situation by ordering the most expensive items, then it is best for the other member to do likewise. In fact, if the fellow diner's personality is completely unknown, and the two diners are unlikely ever to meet again, it is always in one's own best interests to eat as expensively as possible. Situations in nature that are subject to the same dynamics (rewards and penalties) as the PDG define cooperative behavior: it is never in the individual's fitness interests to cooperate, even though mutual cooperation rewards the two contestants (together) more highly than any other strategy. Cooperation cannot evolve under these circumstances.\n\nHowever, in 1981 Axelrod and Hamilton noted that if the same contestants in the PDG meet repeatedly (in the so-called iterated prisoner's dilemma game, IPD) then tit-for-tat (foreshadowed by Robert Trivers' 1971 reciprocal altruism theory) is a robust strategy which promotes altruism. In \"tit-for-tat\" both players' opening moves are cooperation. Thereafter each contestant repeats the other player's last move, resulting in a seemingly endless sequence of mutually cooperative moves. However, mistakes severely undermine tit-for-tat's effectiveness, giving rise to prolonged sequences of betrayal, which can only be rectified by another mistake. Since these initial discoveries, all the other possible IPD game strategies have been identified (16 possibilities in all, including, for instance, \"generous tit-for-tat\", which behaves like \"tit-for-tat\", except that it cooperates with a small probability when the opponent's last move was \"betray\".), but all can be outperformed by at least one of the other strategies, should one of the players switch to such a strategy. The result is that none is evolutionarily stable, and any prolonged series of the iterated prisoner's dilemma game, in which alternative strategies arise at random, gives rise to a chaotic sequence of strategy changes that never ends.\n\nResults from experimental economics show, however, that humans often act more cooperatively than strict self-interest would dictate.\n\nIn the light of the iterated prisoner's dilemma game and the reciprocal altruism theory failing to provide full answers to the evolutionary stability of cooperation, several alternative explanations have been proposed.\n\nThere are striking parallels between cooperative behavior and exaggerated sexual ornaments displayed by some animals, particularly certain birds, such as, amongst others, the peacock. Both are costly in fitness terms, and both are generally conspicuous to other members of the population or species. This led Amotz Zahavi to suggest that both might be fitness signals rendered evolutionarily stable by his handicap principle. If a signal is to remain reliable, and generally resistant to falsification, the signal has to be evolutionarily costly. Thus, if a (low fitness) liar were to use the highly costly signal, which seriously eroded its real fitness, it would find it difficult to maintain a semblance or normality. Zahavi borrowed the term \"handicap principle\" from sports handicapping systems. These systems are aimed at reducing disparities in performance, thereby making the outcome of contests less predictable. In a horse handicap race, provenly faster horses are given heavier weights to carry under their saddles than inherently slower horses. Similarly, in amateur golf, better golfers have fewer strokes subtracted from their raw scores than the less talented players. The handicap therefore correlates with unhandicapped performance, making it possible, if one knows nothing about the horses, to predict which unhandicapped horse would win an open race. It would be the one handicapped with the greatest weight in the saddle. The handicaps in nature are highly visible, and therefore a peahen, for instance, would be able to deduce the health of a potential mate by comparing its handicap (the size of the peacock's tail) with those of the other males. The loss of the male's fitness caused by the handicap is offset by his increased access to females, which is as much of a fitness concern as is his health. A cooperative act is, by definition, similarly costly (e.g. helping raise the young at the nest of an unrelated pair of birds versus producing and raising one's own offspring). It would therefore also signal fitness, and is probably as attractive to females as a physical handicap. If this is the case, cooperation is evolutionarily stabilized by sexual selection.\nThere is an alternate strategy for identifying fit mates which does not rely on one gender having exaggerated sexual ornaments or other handicaps, but is probably generally applicable to most, if not all sexual creatures. It derives from the concept that the change in appearance and functionality caused by a non-silent mutation will generally stand out in a population. This is because that altered appearance and functionality will be unusual, peculiar, and different from the norm within that population. The norm against which these unusual features are judged is made up of fit attributes that have attained their plurality through natural selection, while less well adapted attributes will be in the minority or frankly rare. Since the overwhelming majority of mutant features are maladaptive, and it is impossible to predict evolution's future direction, sexual creatures would be expected to prefer mates with the least number of unusual or minority features. This will have the effect of a sexual population rapidly shedding peripheral phenotypic features, thereby canalizing the entire outward appearance and behavior of all of its members. They will all very quickly begin to look remarkably similar to one another in every detail, as illustrated in the accompanying photograph of the African pygmy kingfisher, \"Ispidina picta\". Once a population has become as homogeneous in appearance as is typical of most species, its entire repertoire of behaviors will also be rendered evolutionarily stable, including any cooperative, altruistic and social interactions. Thus, in the example above of the selfish individual who hangs back from the rest of the hunting pack, but who nevertheless joins in the spoils, that individual will be recognized as being different from the norm, and will therefore find it difficult to attract a mate (koinophilia). Its genes will therefore have only a very small probability of being passed on to the next generation, thus evolutionarily stabilizing cooperation and social interactions at whatever level of complexity is the norm in that population.\n\nOne of the first references to animal cooperation was made by Charles Darwin, who noted it as a potential problem for his theory of natural selection. In most of the 19th century, intellectuals like Thomas Henry Huxley and Peter Kropotkin debated fervently on whether animals cooperate with one another and whether animals displayed altruistic behaviors.\n\nIn the late 1900s, some early research in animal cooperation focused on the benefits of group-living. While living in a group produces costs in the form of increased frequency of predator attacks and greater mating competition, some animals find that the benefits outweigh the costs. Animals that practice group-living often benefit from assistance in parasite removal, access to more mates, and conservation of energy in foraging. Initially, the most obvious form of animal cooperation was kin selection, but more recent studies focus on non-kin cooperation, where benefits may seem less obvious. Non-kin cooperation often involves many strategies that include manipulation and coercion, making these interactions more complicated to study. An example of manipulation is presented by the cuckoo, a brood parasite, which lays its eggs in the nest of a bird of another species. That bird then is tricked into feeding and caring for the cuckoo offspring. Although this phenomenon may look like cooperation at first glance, it only presents benefits to one recipient.\n\nIn the past, simple game theory models, such as the classic cooperative hunting and Prisoner's dilemma models, were used to determine decisions made by animals in cooperative relationships. However, complicated interactions between animals have required the use of more complex economic models such as the Nash equilibrium. The Nash equilibrium is a type of non-cooperative game theory that assumes an individual's decision is influenced by its knowledge of the strategies of other individuals. This theory was novel because it took into consideration the higher cognitive capabilities of animals. The evolutionarily stable strategy is a refined version of the Nash equilibrium in that it assumes strategies are heritable and are subject to natural selection. Economic models are useful for analyzing cooperative relationships because they provide predictions on how individuals act when cooperation is an option. Economic models are not perfect, but they provide a general idea of how cooperative relationships work.\n\n"}
{"id": "8995234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8995234", "title": "Container space", "text": "Container space\n\nThe container theory of space is a metaphysical theory according to which space is a background against which objects rest and move, with the implication that it can continue to exist in the absence of matter. Its opposite is the relational theory. Newton favoured absolute time and space and the container theory, against Leibniz who was a relationist. The subject was famously debated in the Leibniz–Clarke correspondence.\n\nAt first glance, the physical theory of relativity weighs in favour of relational space, but the general theory of relativity re-introduces some container-like features such as the possibility of completely empty universes.\n\nAn absolute approach can also be applied to time, with, for instance, the implication that there might have been vast epochs of time before the first event.\n\n"}
{"id": "9897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9897", "title": "Evil", "text": "Evil\n\nEvil, in a general sense, is the opposite or absence of good. It can be an extremely broad concept, though in everyday usage is often used more narrowly to denote profound wickedness. It is generally seen as taking multiple possible forms, such as the form of personal moral evil commonly associated with the word, or impersonal natural evil (as in the case of natural disasters or illnesses), and in religious thought, the form of the demonic or supernatural/eternal.\n\nEvil can denote profound immorality, but typically not without some basis in the understanding of the human condition, where strife and suffering (cf. Hinduism) are the true roots of evil. In certain religious contexts, evil has been described as a supernatural force. As defined in philosophy it can be the name for the psychology and instinct of individuals which selfishly but often necessarily defends the personal boundary against deadly attacks and serious threats. Definitions of evil vary, as does the analysis of its motives. Elements that are commonly associated with personal forms of evil involve unbalanced behavior involving anger, revenge, fear, hatred, psychological trauma, expediency, selfishness, ignorance, or neglect.\n\nEvil is sometimes perceived as the dualistic antagonistic binary opposite to good, in which good should prevail and evil should be defeated. In cultures with Buddhist spiritual influence, both good and evil are perceived as part of an antagonistic duality that itself must be overcome through achieving \"Nirvana\". The philosophical questions regarding good and evil are subsumed into three major areas of study: Meta-ethics concerning the nature of good and evil, Normative ethics concerning how we ought to behave, and Applied ethics concerning particular moral issues. While the term is applied to events and conditions without agency, the forms of evil addressed in this article presume an evildoer or doers.\n\nSome religions and philosophies deny evil's existence and usefulness in describing people.\n\nThe modern English word \"evil\" (Old English ) and its cognates such as the German and Dutch are widely considered to come from a Proto-Germanic reconstructed form of \"*ubilaz\", comparable to the Hittite \"huwapp-\" ultimately from the Proto-Indo-European form and suffixed zero-grade form . Other later Germanic forms include Middle English , , , Old Frisian (adjective and noun), Old Saxon , Old High German , and Gothic .\n\nThe root meaning of the word is of obscure origin though shown to be akin to modern German \"\" (although \"evil\" is normally translated as \"Das Böse\") with the basic idea of transgressing.\n\nAs with Buddhism, in Confucianism or Taoism there is no direct analogue to the way \"good and evil\" are opposed although reference to \"demonic influence\" is common in Chinese folk religion. Confucianism's primary concern is with correct social relationships and the behavior appropriate to the learned or superior man. Thus \"evil\" would correspond to wrong behavior. Still less does it map into Taoism, in spite of the centrality of dualism in that system, but the opposite of the cardinal virtues of Taoism, compassion, moderation, and humility can be inferred to be the analogue of evil in it.\n\nBenedict de Spinoza states\n\nSpinoza assumes a quasi-mathematical style and states these further propositions which he purports to prove or demonstrate from the above definitions in part IV of his \"Ethics\" :\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche, in a rejection of the Judeo-Christian morality, addresses this in two works \"Beyond Good and Evil\" and \"On the Genealogy of Morals\" where he essentially says that the natural, functional non-good has been socially transformed into the religious concept of evil by the slave mentality of the weak and oppressed masses who resent their masters (the strong).\n\nCarl Jung, in his book \"Answer to Job\" and elsewhere, depicted evil as the \"dark side of God\". People tend to believe evil is something external to them, because they project their shadow onto others. Jung interpreted the story of Jesus as an account of God facing his own shadow.\n\nEven though the book may have had a sudden birth, its gestation period in Jung's unconscious was long. The subject of God, and what Jung saw as the dark side of God, was a lifelong preoccupation. An emotional and theoretical struggle with the core nature of deity is evident in Jung's earliest fantasies and dreams, as well as in his complex relationships with his father (a traditional minister), his mother (who had a strong spiritual-mystical dimension), and the Christian church itself. Jung's account of his childhood in his quasi-autobiography, Memories, Dreams, Reflections (New York: Vintage, 1963; henceforth MDR), provides deep, personal background about his early religious roots and conflicts.\n\nIn 2007, Philip Zimbardo suggested that people may act in evil ways as a result of a collective identity. This hypothesis, based on his previous experience from the Stanford prison experiment, was published in the book \"The Lucifer Effect: Understanding How Good People Turn Evil\".\n\nMost monotheistic religions posit that the singular God is all-powerful, all-knowing, and completely good. The problem of evil asks how the apparent contradiction of these properties and the observed existence of evil in the world might be resolved. Scholars have examined the question of suffering caused by and in both humans and animals, suffering caused by nature (like storms and disease). These religions tend to attribute the source of evil to something other than God, such as demonic beings or human disobedience.\n\nPolytheistic and non-theistic religions do not have such an apparent contradiction, but many seek to explain or identify the source of evil or suffering. These include concepts of evil as a necessary balancing or enabling force, a consequence of past deeds (karma), or as an illusion, possibly produced by ignorance or failure to achieve enlightenment.\n\nNon-religious atheism generally accepts evil acts as a feature of human actions arising from intelligent brains shaped by evolution, and suffering from nature as a result of complex natural systems simply following physical laws.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith asserts that evil is non-existent and that it is a concept reflecting lack of good, just as cold is the state of no heat, darkness is the state of no light, forgetfulness the lacking of memory, ignorance the lacking of knowledge. All of these are states of lacking and have no real existence.\n\nThus, evil does not exist and is relative to man. `Abdu'l-Bahá, son of the founder of the religion, in Some Answered Questions states:\n\n\"Nevertheless a doubt occurs to the mind—that is, scorpions and serpents are poisonous. Are they good or evil, for they are existing beings? Yes, a scorpion is evil in relation to man; a serpent is evil in relation to man; but in relation to themselves they are not evil, for their poison is their weapon, and by their sting they defend themselves.\"\n\nThus, evil is more of an intellectual concept than a true reality. Since God is good, and upon creating creation he confirmed it by saying it is Good (Genesis 1:31) evil cannot have a true reality.\n\nEvil in the religion of Ancient Egypt is known as Isfet, \"disorder/violence\". It is the opposite of Maat, \"order\", and embodied by the serpent god Apep, who routinely attempts to kill the sun god Ra and is stopped by nearly every other deity. Isfet is not a primordial force, but the consequence of free will and an individual's struggle against the non-existence embodied by Apep, as evidenced by the fact that it was born from Ra's umbilical cord instead of being recorded in the religion's creation myths.\n\nThe primal duality in Buddhism is between suffering and enlightenment, so the good vs. evil splitting has no direct analogue in it. One may infer from the general teachings of the Buddha that the catalogued causes of suffering are what correspond in this belief system to 'evil.\n\nPractically this can refer to 1) the three selfish emotions—desire, hate and delusion; and 2) to their expression in physical and verbal actions. See \"ten unvirtuous actions in Buddhism\". Specifically, \"evil\" means whatever harms or obstructs the causes for happiness in this life, a better rebirth, liberation from samsara, and the true and complete enlightenment of a buddha (samyaksambodhi).\n\n\"What is evil? Killing is evil, lying is evil, slandering is evil, abuse is evil, gossip is evil: envy is evil, hatred is evil, to cling to false doctrine is evil; all these things are evil. And what is the root of evil? Desire is the root of evil, illusion is the root of evil.\" Gautama Siddhartha, the founder of Buddhism, 563–483 BC.\n\nIn Hinduism, the concept of Dharma or righteousness clearly divides the world into good and evil, and clearly explains that wars have to be waged sometimes to establish and protect Dharma, this war is called Dharmayuddha. This division of good and evil is of major importance in both the Hindu epics of Ramayana and Mahabharata. The main emphasis in Hinduism is on bad action, rather than bad people. The Hindu holy text, the Bhagavad Gita, speaks of the balance of good and evil. When this balance goes off, divine incarnations come to help to restore this balance.\n\nIn adherence to the core principle of spiritual evolution, the Sikh idea of evil changes depending on one's position on the path to liberation. At the beginning stages of spiritual growth, good and evil may seem neatly separated. Once one's spirit evolves to the point where it sees most clearly, the idea of evil vanishes and the truth is revealed. In his writings Guru Arjan explains that, because God is the source of all things, what we believe to be evil must too come from God. And because God is ultimately a source of absolute good, nothing truly evil can originate from God.\n\nNevertheless, Sikhism, like many other religions, does incorporate a list of \"vices\" from which suffering, corruption, and abject negativity arise. These are known as the Five Thieves, called such due to their propensity to cloud the mind and lead one astray from the prosecution of righteous action. These are:\nOne who gives in to the temptations of the Five Thieves is known as \"Manmukh\", or someone who lives selfishly and without virtue. Inversely, the \"Gurmukh, who thrive in their reverence toward divine knowledge, rise above vice via the practice of the high virtues of Sikhism. These are:\n\nThere is no concept of absolute evil in Islam, as a fundamental universal principle that is independent from and equal with good in a dualistic sense. Although the Quran mentions the biblical forbidden tree, it never refers to it as the 'tree of knowledge of good and evil'. Within Islam, it is considered essential to believe that all comes from God, whether it is perceived as good or bad by individuals; and things that are perceived as \"evil\" or \"bad\" are either natural events (natural disasters or illnesses) or caused by humanity's free will. Much more the behavior of beings with free will, then they disobey God's orders, harming others or putting themselves over God or others, is considered to be evil. Evil doesn't necessarily refer to evil as an ontological or moral category, but often to harm or as the intention and consequence of an action, but also to unlawfull actions.\nUnproductive actions or those who do not produce benefits are also thought of as evil. \n\nA typical understanding of evil is reflected by Al-Ash`ari founder of Asharism. Accordingly, qualifying something as evil depends on the circumstances of the observer. An event or an action itself is neutral, but it receives its qualification by God. Since God is omnipotent and nothing can exist outside of God's power, God's will determine, whether or not something is evil.\n\nIn Judaism, evil is not real, it is per se not part of God's creation, but comes into existence through man's bad actions. Human beings are responsible for their choices, and so have the free will to choose good (life in olam haba) or bad (death in heaven). (Deuteronomy 28:20) Judaism stresses obedience to God's 613 commandments of the Written Torah (see also Tanakh) and the collective body of Jewish religious laws expounded in the Oral Torah and Shulchan Aruch (see also Mishnah and the Talmud). In Judaism, there is no prejudice in one's becoming good or evil at the time of birth, since full responsibility comes with Bar and Bat Mitzvah, when Jewish boys become 13, and girls become 12 years old.\n\nEvil according to a Christian worldview is any action, thought, or attitude that is contrary to the character or will of God. This is shown through the law given in both the Old and New Testament. There is no moral action given in the Bible that is contrary to God's character or God's will. Therefore, evil in a Christian worldview is contrasted by and in conflict with God's character or God's will. This evil shows itself through deviation from the character or will of God.\n\nChristian theology draws its concept of evil from the Old and New Testaments. The Christian Bible exercises \"the dominant influence upon ideas about God and evil in the Western world.\" In the Old Testament, evil is understood to be an opposition to God as well as something unsuitable or inferior such as the leader of the fallen angels Satan In the New Testament the Greek word \"poneros\" is used to indicate unsuitability, while \"kakos\" is used to refer to opposition to God in the human realm. Officially, the Catholic Church extracts its understanding of evil from its canonical antiquity and the Dominican theologian, Thomas Aquinas, who in \"Summa Theologica\" defines evil as the absence or privation of good. French-American theologian Henri Blocher describes evil, when viewed as a theological concept, as an \"unjustifiable reality. In common parlance, evil is 'something' that occurs in the experience that \"ought not to be\".\"\n\nIn Mormonism, mortal life is viewed as a test of faith, where one's choices are central to the Plan of Salvation. See Agency (LDS Church). Evil is that which keeps one from discovering the nature of God. It is believed that one must choose not to be evil to return to God.\n\nChristian Science believes that evil arises from a misunderstanding of the goodness of nature, which is understood as being inherently perfect if viewed from the correct (spiritual) perspective. Misunderstanding God's reality leads to incorrect choices, which are termed evil. This has led to the rejection of any separate power being the source of evil, or of God as being the source of evil; instead, the appearance of evil is the result of a mistaken concept of good. Christian Scientists argue that even the most \"evil\" person does not pursue evil for its own sake, but from the mistaken viewpoint that he or she will achieve some kind of good thereby.\n\nIn the originally Persian religion of Zoroastrianism, the world is a battleground between the god Ahura Mazda (also called Ormazd) and the malignant spirit Angra Mainyu (also called Ahriman). The final resolution of the struggle between good and evil was supposed to occur on a day of Judgement, in which all beings that have lived will be led across a bridge of fire, and those who are evil will be cast down forever. In Afghan belief, angels and saints are beings sent to help us achieve the path towards goodness.\n\nA fundamental question is whether there is a universal, transcendent definition of evil, or whether evil is determined by one's social or cultural background. C. S. Lewis, in \"The Abolition of Man\", maintained that there are certain acts that are universally considered evil, such as rape and murder. The numerous instances in which rape or murder is morally affected by social context call this into question. Up until the mid-19th century, the United States—along with many other countries—practiced forms of slavery. As is often the case, those transgressing moral boundaries stood to profit from that exercise. Arguably, slavery has always been the same and objectively evil, but men with a motivation to transgress will justify that action.\nThe Nazis, during World War II, considered genocide to be acceptable, as did the Hutu Interahamwe in the Rwandan genocide. One might point out, though, that the actual perpetrators of those atrocities probably avoided calling their actions genocide, since the objective meaning of any act accurately described by that word is to wrongfully kill a selected group of people, which is an action that at least their victims will understand to be evil. Universalists consider evil independent of culture, and wholly related to acts or intents. Thus, while the ideological leaders of Nazism and the Hutu Interhamwe accepted (and considered it moral) to commit genocide, the belief in genocide as \"fundamentally\" or \"universally\" evil holds that those who instigated this genocide are actually evil. Hitler considered it a moral duty to destroy Jews because he saw them as the root of all of Germany's ills and the violence associated with communism. Osama bin Laden found it moral to kill all Christians and Jews because he saw Islam as under attack by Western and US influence, accusing the US and Israel of forming a Crusader-Zionist alliance to destroy Islam, and considering US troops in Saudi Arabia infidels in the land of Islam's two holiest sites. He therefore considered non-Muslims and Shiite Muslims evil people intent on destroying Islamic purity and therefore heretic.\n\nGiven his mixed record of efforts to give the Cuban people free-of-charge healthcare and education as well as opposing US hegemony in Latin America, while crushing all opposition and wrecking the Cuban economy, Fidel Castro saw himself as a Caribbean Robin Hood who considered the US and capitalism evil, while Cuban Americans, Cuban dissidents, and other communism-bashing people saw Castro as the personification of evil in late 20th-century Cuban and Latin American history, viewing his Castroist ideology as just as evil as any other form of communism and bashing him for locking up dissidents and killing innocents by firing squads, while creating mayhem in the developing world by working to foment violent communist revolutions in the Americas and many African countries.\n\nViews on the nature of evil belong to the branch of philosophy known as ethics - which in modern philosophy is subsumed into three major areas of study:\n\n\nOne school of thought that holds that no \"person\" is evil and that only \"acts\" may be properly considered evil. Psychologist and mediator Marshall Rosenberg claims that the root of violence is the very concept of \"evil\" or \"badness\". When we label someone as bad or evil, Rosenberg claims, it invokes the desire to punish or inflict pain. It also makes it easy for us to turn off our feelings towards the person we are harming. He cites the use of language in Nazi Germany as being a key to how the German people were able to do things to other human beings that they normally would not do. He links the concept of evil to our judicial system, which seeks to create justice via punishment—\"punitive justice\"—punishing acts that are seen as bad or wrong.He contrasts this approach with what he found in cultures where the idea of evil was non-existent. In such cultures when someone harms another person, they are believed to be out of harmony with themselves and their community, are seen as sick or ill and measures are taken to restore them to a sense of harmonious relations with themselves and others.\n\nPsychologist Albert Ellis agrees, in his school of psychology called Rational Emotive Behavioral Therapy, or REBT. He says the root of anger, and the desire to harm someone, is almost always related to variations of implicit or explicit philosophical beliefs about other human beings. He further claims that without holding variants of those covert or overt belief and assumptions, the tendency to resort to violence in most cases is less likely.\n\nAmerican psychiatrist M. Scott Peck on the other hand, describes evil as \"militant ignorance\". The original Judeo-Christian concept of \"sin\" is as a process that leads one to \"miss the mark\" and not achieve perfection. Peck argues that while most people are conscious of this at least on some level, those that are evil actively and militantly refuse this consciousness. Peck describes evil as a malignant type of self-righteousness which results in a projection of evil onto selected specific innocent victims (often children or other people in relatively powerless positions). Peck considers those he calls evil to be attempting to escape and hide from their own conscience (through self-deception) and views this as being quite distinct from the apparent absence of conscience evident in sociopaths.\nAccording to Peck, an evil person:\n\nHe also considers certain institutions may be evil, as his discussion of the My Lai Massacre and its attempted coverup illustrate. By this definition, acts of criminal and state terrorism would also be considered evil.\n\nMartin Luther argued that there are cases where a little evil is a positive good. He wrote, \"Seek out the society of your boon companions, drink, play, talk bawdy, and amuse yourself. One must sometimes commit a sin out of hate and contempt for the Devil, so as not to give him the chance to make one scrupulous over mere nothings ... \"\n\nAccording to certain schools of political philosophy, leaders should be indifferent to good or evil, taking actions based only upon practicality; this approach to politics was put forth by Niccolò Machiavelli, a 16th-century Florentine writer who advised politicians \"... it is far safer to be feared than loved.\"\n\nThe international relations theories of realism and neorealism, sometimes called \"realpolitik\" advise politicians to explicitly ban absolute moral and ethical considerations from international politics, and to focus on self-interest, political survival, and power politics, which they hold to be more accurate in explaining a world they view as explicitly amoral and dangerous. Political realists usually justify their perspectives by laying claim to a \"higher moral duty\" specific to political leaders, under which the greatest evil is seen to be the failure of the state to protect itself and its citizens. Machiavelli wrote: \"... there will be traits considered good that, if followed, will lead to ruin, while other traits, considered vices which if practiced achieve security and well being for the Prince.\"\n\nAnton LaVey, founder of the Church of Satan, was a materialist and claimed that evil is actually good. He was responding to the common practice of describing sexuality or disbelief as evil, and his claim was that when the word \"evil\" is used to describe the natural pleasures and instincts of men and women or the skepticism of an inquiring mind, the things called evil are really good.\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "2033144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2033144", "title": "Frank Cameron Jackson", "text": "Frank Cameron Jackson\n\nFrank Cameron Jackson (born 1943) is an Australian analytic philosopher, currently Emeritus Professor and former Director of the Research School of Social Sciences at Australian National University. He was also a regular visiting professor of philosophy at Princeton University from 2007 through 2014. His research focuses primarily on philosophy of mind, epistemology, metaphysics, and meta-ethics.\n\nFrank Cameron Jackson was born in 1943. His father, Allan Cameron Jackson, was also a philosopher and student of Ludwig Wittgenstein.\n\nJackson studied mathematics and philosophy at the University of Melbourne, going into residence at Trinity College in 1961. In his later years in College, he was Clarke Scholar, and a member of the 2nd XVIII football team. He then received his PhD in philosophy from La Trobe University. He taught at the University of Adelaide for a year in 1967. In 1978, he became chair of the philosophy department at Monash University. In 1986, he joined Australian National University (ANU) as Professor of Philosophy and Head of the Philosophy Program, Research School of Social Sciences. At ANU, he served as Director of the Institute of Advanced Studies from 1998 to 2001 and Deputy Vice-Chancellor in 2001. He was appointed as Distinguished Professor at ANU in 2003. He now has a half-time appointment at Princeton University as well as a half-time appointment at ANU.\n\nJackson was awarded the Order of Australia in 2006 for service to philosophy and social sciences as an academic, administrator, and researcher. Jackson delivered the John Locke lectures at the University of Oxford in 1995. His father had delivered the 1957-8 lectures, making them the first father-son pair to do so.\n\nJackson's philosophical research is broad, but focuses primarily on the areas of philosophy of mind, epistemology, metaphysics, and meta-ethics.\n\nIn philosophy of mind, Jackson is known, among other things, for the \"knowledge argument\" against physicalism—the view that the universe is entirely physical (i.e., the kinds of entities postulated in physics). Jackson motivates the knowledge argument by a thought experiment known as Mary's room. Jackson phrases the thought experiment as follows:\n\nJackson used the knowledge argument, as well as other arguments, to establish a sort of dualism, according to which certain mental states, especially qualitative ones, are non-physical. The view that Jackson urged was a modest version of epiphenomenalism—the view that certain mental states are non-physical and, although caused to come into existence by physical events, do not then cause any changes in the physical world.\n\nHowever, Jackson later rejected the knowledge argument, as well as other arguments against physicalism:\n\nJackson argues that the intuition-driven arguments against physicalism (such as the knowledge argument and the zombie argument) are ultimately misleading.\n\nJackson is also known for his defence of the centrality of conceptual analysis to philosophy; his approach, set out in his Locke Lectures and published as his 1998 book, is often referred to as the Canberra Plan for doing philosophy.\n\nJackson was elected Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities (FAHA) in 1981 and of the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia (FASSA) in 1998.\n\nHe was awarded the Centenary Medal in 2001 and appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) in 2006.\n\nIn 2003 he was appointed as Distinguished Professor at the Australian National University and Emeritus Professor in 2014. In November 2018 Jackson received the Peter Baume Award, which recognises substantial and significant achievement and merit.\n\nA \"partial\" list of publications by Frank Jackson:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24659537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24659537", "title": "François Poullain de la Barre", "text": "François Poullain de la Barre\n\nFrançois Poullain de la Barre (; born in July 1647 in Paris, France, died May 4, 1723 in Geneva, Republic of Geneva) was a writer and a Cartesian philosopher.\n\nInitially studying theology, Poullain de la Barre adopted the philosophy of Descartes. He became a priest in the Champagne area before converting to Protestantism. After the Edict of Fontainebleau revoked the Edict of Nantes, he was exiled in the Republic of Geneva, where he obtained the citizenship (bourgeoisie) in 1716.\n\nHe applied Cartesian principles to the question of women and wrote many texts of social philosophy which denounced injustice against woman and by the inequality of the female condition. Opposing the discrimination they experienced and as one of the champions of social equality between women and men, he is a precursor of the feminists.\n\nIn 1673, he published \"On the equality of the two sexes: a physical and moral discourse in which is seen the importance of undoing prejudice in oneself,\" the first of three feminist works. He argues that the inequality in the treatment that women experience does not have a natural basis, but proceeds from cultural prejudice. He recommends that women receive a true education and also says all careers should be open to them, including scientific careers.\n\nIn a second work, \"On the education of women, to guide the mind in sciences and manners\", Barre continues reflection on the education of women. Although the title of his third work may seem to suggest an opposing point of view, \"Of the excellence of the men against the equality of the sexes,\" it is a reply to some of the standard arguments against gender equality, not a reversal of his own positions. Pierre Bayle has advanced the theory that Poullain may have refuted his own thesis because he felt threatened, but the arguments antifeminists advanced are doubtful of this refutation. Opinions about Poullain de la Barre's place in the history of feminism vary considerably from one author to another.\n\nSimone de Beauvoir includes a quotation from Poullain de la Barre in an epigraph to \"The Second Sex \" in 1949: \"All that has been written about women by men should be\nsuspect, for the men are at once judge and party.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1724365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1724365", "title": "Friedrich Waismann", "text": "Friedrich Waismann\n\nFriedrich Waismann (; 21 March 1896 – 4 November 1959) was an Austrian mathematician, physicist, and philosopher. He is best known for being a member of the Vienna Circle and one of the key theorists in logical positivism.\n\nBorn to a Jewish family in Vienna, Austria-Hungary, Waismann was educated in mathematics and physics at the University of Vienna. In 1922, he began to study philosophy under the tutelage of Moritz Schlick, the founder of the Vienna Circle. He emigrated to the United Kingdom in 1938.\n\nHe was a reader in philosophy of science at the University of Cambridge from 1937 to 1939, and lecturer in philosophy of mathematics at the University of Oxford from 1939 until his death. He died in Oxford.\n\nIntermittently, from 1927 until 1936, Waismann had extensive conversations with Ludwig Wittgenstein about topics in philosophy of mathematics and philosophy of language. These conversations, recorded by Waismann, were published in \"Ludwig Wittgenstein and the Vienna Circle\" (1979, ed. B.F. McGuinness). Other members of the Circle (including Schlick, Rudolf Carnap, and Herbert Feigl) also spoke with Wittgenstein, but not to Waismann's extent.\n\nAt one point in 1934, Wittgenstein and Waismann considered collaborating on a book, but these plans fell through after their philosophical differences became apparent.\n\nWaismann later accused Wittgenstein of obscurantism because of what he considered to be his betrayal of the project of logical positivism and empirically-based explanation. Ultimately the texts for the project, written or just transcribed by Waismann, have been published by Gordon Baker in 2003.\n\nIn \"Introduction to Mathematical Thinking: The Formation of Concepts in Modern Mathematics\" (1936), Waismann argued that mathematical truths are true by convention rather than being necessarily (or verifiably) true. His collected lectures, \"The Principles of Linguistic Philosophy\" (1965), and \"How I See Philosophy\" (1968, ed. R. Harré), a collection of papers, were published posthumously.\n\nWaismann's concept of open texture, or porosity, has been found in legal philosophy through the writings of H. L. A. Hart (see Hart's \"The Concept of Law about Rule Skepticism\" and Waismann's article \"Verifiability\").\n"}
{"id": "593083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=593083", "title": "G. E. M. Anscombe", "text": "G. E. M. Anscombe\n\nGertrude Elizabeth Margaret Anscombe (; 18 March 1919 – 5 January 2001), usually cited as G. E. M. Anscombe or Elizabeth Anscombe, was a British analytic philosopher. She wrote on the philosophy of mind, philosophy of action, philosophical logic, philosophy of language, and ethics. She was a prominent figure of analytical Thomism.\n\nAnscombe was a student of Ludwig Wittgenstein and became an authority on his work and edited and translated many books drawn from his writings, above all his \"Philosophical Investigations\". Anscombe's 1958 article \"Modern Moral Philosophy\" introduced the term \"consequentialism\" into the language of analytic philosophy, and had a seminal influence on contemporary virtue ethics. Her monograph \"Intention\" is generally recognised as her greatest and most influential work, and the continuing philosophical interest in the concepts of intention, action, and practical reasoning can be said to have taken its main impetus from this work.\n\nG. E. M. Anscombe was born to Gertrude Elizabeth Anscombe and Allen Wells Anscombe, on 18 March 1919, in North Strand, Limerick, Ireland, where her British father had been posted as an officer in the Royal Welch Fusiliers during the Irish War of Independence. Both her mother and father were involved with education. Her mother was a headmistress and her father went on to head a department at Dulwich College.\n\nShe graduated from Sydenham High School in 1937 and went on to read \"Mods & Greats\" (classics, ancient history, and philosophy) at St Hugh's College, Oxford, graduating with a second class in Honour Moderations in 1939 and a first class in her degree Finals in 1941. While still at Sydenham High School, she was converted to the Roman Catholic religion, and during her first undergraduate year she was received into the church. She remained a lifelong devout Catholic. She garnered controversy when she publicly opposed Britain's entry into the Second World War, although her father had been a soldier and one of her brothers was to serve during the war.\n\nIn 1941 she married Peter Geach, like her a Roman Catholic convert. He became, like her, a student of Wittgenstein and a distinguished British academic philosopher. Together they had three sons and four daughters.\n\nAfter graduating from Oxford, Anscombe was awarded a research fellowship for postgraduate study at Newnham College, Cambridge, from 1942 to 1945. Her purpose was to attend Ludwig Wittgenstein's lectures. Her interest in Wittgenstein's philosophy arose from reading the \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\" as an undergraduate. She claimed to have conceived the idea of studying with Wittgenstein as soon as she opened the book in Blackwell's and read section 5.53, \"Identity of object I express by identity of sign, and not by using a sign for identity. Difference of objects I express by difference of signs.\" She became an enthusiastic student, feeling that Wittgenstein's therapeutic method helped to free her from philosophical difficulties in ways that her training in traditional systematic philosophy could not. As she wrote\n\nAfter her fellowship at Cambridge ended, she was awarded a research fellowship at Somerville College, Oxford, but during the academic year of 1946/47, she continued to travel to Cambridge once a week to attend tutorials with Wittgenstein on the philosophy of religion. She became one of Wittgenstein's favourite students and one of his closest friends. Wittgenstein affectionately referred to her by the pet name \"old man\" – an exception to his general dislike of academic women. His confidence in Anscombe's understanding of his perspective is shown by his choice of her as translator of his \"Philosophical Investigations\" before she had learned German, for which purpose he arranged a stay in Vienna.\n\nAnscombe visited Wittgenstein many times after he left Cambridge in 1947, and travelled to Cambridge in April 1951 to visit him on his death bed. Wittgenstein named her, along with Rush Rhees and Georg Henrik von Wright, as his literary executor, and after his death in 1951 she was responsible for editing, translating, and publishing many of Wittgenstein's manuscripts and notebooks.\n\nShe scandalised liberal colleagues with articles defending the Roman Catholic Church's opposition to contraception in the 1960s and early 1970s. Later in life, she was arrested twice while protesting outside an abortion clinic in Britain, after abortion had been legalised (albeit with restrictions).\n\nAnscombe remained at Somerville College from 1946 to 1970. She was also known for her willingness to face fierce public controversy in the name of her Catholic faith. In 1956, while a research fellow at the University of Oxford, she protested Oxford's decision to grant an honorary degree to Harry S. Truman, whom she denounced as a mass murderer for his use of atomic bombs at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. She and three others voted against awarding the honour to Truman. She would later defend her decision in a 1957 pamphlet.\n\nAnscombe was elected Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cambridge in 1970, where she served until her retirement in 1986. She was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1979.\n\nIn her later years, Anscombe suffered from heart disease, and was nearly killed in a car crash in 1996. She never fully recovered and she spent her last years in the care of her family in Cambridge. She died on 5 January 2001, aged 81, with her husband and four of their seven children at her bedside.\n\nShe had not said where she was to be buried and the family chose what is now the Ascension Parish burial ground, as it was the nearest one to their home. There was some difficulty in getting a full-size plot, where she could be buried without being cremated first. This was not possible in the new part of the cemetery, so the site finally obtained – after negotiation with Ely diocesan authorities – was that of an old grave, corner-to-corner with the plot where Wittgenstein had been buried half a century before.\n\nAs a young philosophy don, Anscombe acquired a reputation as a formidable debater. In 1948, she presented a paper at a meeting of Oxford's Socratic Club in which she disputed C. S. Lewis's argument that naturalism was self-refuting (found in the third chapter of the original publication of his book \"Miracles\"). Some associates of Lewis, primarily George Sayer and Derek Brewer, have remarked that Lewis lost the subsequent debate on her paper and that this loss was so humiliating that he abandoned theological argument and turned entirely to devotional writing and children's literature. Anscombe's impression of the effect upon Lewis is somewhat different:\n\nAs a result of the debate, Lewis substantially rewrote chapter 3 of \"Miracles\" for the 1960 paperback edition.\n\nSome of Anscombe's most frequently cited works are translations, editions, and expositions of the work of her teacher Ludwig Wittgenstein. She wrote an introduction (1959) to Wittgenstein's 1921 book, the \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\", which brought to the fore the importance of Gottlob Frege for Wittgenstein's thought and, partly on that basis, attacked \"positivist\" interpretations of the work. She co-edited his posthumous second book, \"Philosophische Untersuchungen/Philosophical Investigations\" (1953) with Rush Rhees. Her English translation of the book appeared simultaneously and remains standard. She also edited or co-edited several volumes of selections from his notebooks, translating some of them, for example the \"Remarks on the Foundations of Mathematics\" (1956).\n\nIn 1978, Anscombe was awarded the Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art, 1st class for her work on Wittgenstein.\n\nHer most important work is the monograph \"Intention\" (1957). Three volumes of collected papers were published in 1981: \"From Parmenides to Wittgenstein\"; \"Metaphysics and the Philosophy of Mind\"; and \"Ethics, Religion and Politics\". Another collection, \"Human Life, Action and Ethics\" appeared posthumously in 2005.\n\nThe aim of \"Intention\" (1957) was to make plain the character of human action and will. Anscombe approaches the matter through the concept of \"intention\", which, as she notes, has three modes of appearance in our language:\n\nShe suggests that a true account must somehow connect these three uses of the concept, though later students of intention have sometimes denied this, and disputed some of the things she presupposes under the first and third headings. It is clear though that it is the second that is crucial to her main purpose, which is to comprehend the way in which human thought and understanding and conceptualisation relate to the \"events in a man's history\", or the goings on to which he is subject.\n\nRather than attempt to define intentions in abstraction from actions, thus taking the third heading first, Anscombe begins with the concept of an intentional action. This soon connected with the second heading. She says that what is up with a human being is an intentional action if the question \"Why\", taken in a certain sense (and evidently conceived as addressed to him), has application. An agent can answer the \"why\" question by giving a reason or purpose for her action. \"To do Y\" or \"because I want to do Y\" would be typical answers to this sort of \"why?\"; though they are not the only ones, they are crucial to the constitution of the phenomenon as a typical phenomenon of human life. The agent's answer helps supply the descriptions under which the action is intentional. Anscombe was the first to clearly spell out that actions are intentional under some descriptions and not others. In her famous example, a man's action (which we might observe as consisting in moving an arm up and down while holding a handle) may be intentional under the description \"pumping water\" but not under other descriptions such as \"contracting these muscles\", \"tapping out this rhythm\", and so on. This approach to action influenced Donald Davidson's theory, despite the fact that Davidson went on to argue for a causal theory of action that Anscombe never accepted\n\n\"Intention\" (1957) is also the classic source for the idea that there is a difference in \"direction of fit\" between cognitive states like beliefs and conative states like desire. Cognitive states describe the world and are causally derived from the facts or objects they depict. Conative states do not describe the world, but aim to bring something about in the world. Anscombe used the example of a shopping list to illustrate the difference. The list can be a straightforward observational report of what is actually bought (thereby acting like a cognitive state), or it can function as a conative state such as a command or desire, dictating what the agent should buy. If the agent fails to buy what is listed, we do not say that the list is untrue or incorrect; we say that the mistake is in the action, not the desire. According to Anscombe, this difference in direction of fit is a major difference between speculative knowledge (theoretical, empirical knowledge) and practical knowledge (knowledge of actions and morals). Whereas \"speculative knowledge\" is \"derived from the objects known\", practical knowledge is – in a phrase Anscombe lifts from Aquinas – \"the cause of what it understands\".\n\nAnscombe made great contributions to ethics as well as metaphysics. She is credited with having coined the term \"consequentialism\". In her 1958 essay \"Modern Moral Philosophy\", Anscombe wrote:\n\n\"Modern Moral Philosophy\" is credited with reviving interest in and study of virtue ethics in Western academic philosophy.\n\nAnscombe also introduced the idea of a set of facts being 'brute relative to' some fact. When a set of facts xyz stands in this relation to a fact A, they are a subset out of a range some subset among which holds if A holds. Thus if A is the fact that I have paid for something, the brute facts might be that I have handed him a cheque for a sum which he has named as the price for the goods, saying that this is the payment, or that I gave him some cash at the time that he gave me the goods. There tends, according to Anscombe, to be an institutional context which gives its point to the description 'A', but of which 'A' is not itself a description: that I have given someone a shilling is not a description of the institution of money or of the currency of the country. According to her, no brute facts \"xyz\" can generally be said to entail the fact \"A\" relative to which they are 'brute' except with the proviso \"under normal circumstances\", for \"one cannot mention all the things that were not the case, which would have made a difference if they had been.\" A set facts xyz ... may be brute relative to a fact A which itself is one of a set of facts ABC ... which is brute relative to some further fact W. Thus brute facts are not a distinct class of facts, to be distinguished from another class, 'institutional facts': the essential concept to grasp here is that of a set of facts being 'brute relative to' some fact. The term 'brute facts' had a major role to play in John Searle's philosophy of speech acts and institutional reality.\n\nHer paper \"The First Person\" follows up remarks by Wittgenstein, coming to the now-notorious conclusion that the first-person pronoun, \"I\", does not refer to anything (not, e.g., to the speaker). Few people accept the conclusion – though the position was later adopted in a more radical form by David Lewis – but the paper was an important contribution to work on indexicals and self-consciousness that has been carried on by philosophers as varied as John Perry, Peter Strawson, David Kaplan, Gareth Evans, John McDowell, and Sebastian Rödl.\n\nThe philosopher Candace Vogler says that Anscombe's \"strength\" is that \"'when she is writing for [a] Catholic audience, she presumes they share certain fundamental beliefs,' but she is equally willing to write for people who do not share her assumptions.\" In 2010, philosopher Roger Scruton wrote that Anscombe was \"perhaps the last great philosopher writing in English.\" Mary Warnock described her in 2006 as \"the undoubted giant among women philosophers\" while John Haldane said she \"certainly has a good claim to be the greatest woman philosopher of whom we know.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "43579366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43579366", "title": "Glbinding", "text": "Glbinding\n\nglbinding is a generated, cross-platform C++ binding for OpenGL which is solely based on the new xml-based OpenGL API specification (). It is a fully fledged OpenGL API binding, compatible with current code based on other C bindings, e.g., GLEW. The binding is generated using Python scripts and templates, that can be easily adapted to fit custom needs. It leverages modern C++11 features like enum classes, lambdas, and variadic templates, instead of relying on macros (all OpenGL symbols are real functions and variables). It provides type-safe parameters, per feature API header, lazy function resolution, multi-context and multi-thread support, global function callbacks, meta information about the generated OpenGL binding and the OpenGL runtime, as well as multiple examples for quick-starting your projects.\n\nThe complete glbinding source code including the generated files are published under the MIT License.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1596824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1596824", "title": "Gordon A. Craig", "text": "Gordon A. Craig\n\nGordon Alexander Craig (November 13, 1913 – October 30, 2005) was a Scottish-American historian of German history and of diplomatic history.\n\nCraig was born in Glasgow. In 1925 he emigrated with his family to Toronto, Ontario, Canada, and then to Jersey City, New Jersey. Initially interested in studying the law, he switched to history after hearing the historian Walter \"Buzzer\" Hall lecture at Princeton University. In 1935, Craig visited and lived for several months in Germany, to research a thesis he was writing on the downfall of the Weimar Republic. This trip marked the beginning of lifelong interest with all things German. Craig did not enjoy the atmosphere of Nazi Germany, and throughout his life, he sought to find the answer to the question of how a people who, in his opinion, had made a disproportionately large contribution to Western civilization, allowed themselves to become entangled in what Craig saw as the corrupting embrace of Nazism.\n\nOf Adolf Hitler, Craig once wrote,\n\nAdolf Hitler was \"sui generis\", a force without a real historical past ... dedicated to the acquisition of power for his own gratification and to the destruction of a people whose existence was an offense to him and whose annihilation would be his crowning triumph. Both the grandiose barbarism of his political vision and the moral emptiness of his character make it impossible to compare him in any meaningful way with any other German leader. He stands alone.\n\nCraig graduated in history from Princeton University, was a Rhodes Scholar at Balliol College, Oxford, from 1936 to 1938, and served in the U.S. Marine Corps as a captain and in the Office of Strategic Services during World War II. In 1941, he co-edited with Edward Mead Earle and Felix Gilbert, on behalf of the American War Department, the book \"Makers of Modern Strategy: Military Thought From Machiavelli to Hitler\", which was intended to serve as a guide to strategic thinking for military leaders during the war.\n\nAfter 1945, Craig worked as a consultant to the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, the State Department, the U.S. Air Force Academy and the Historical Division of the U.S. Marine Corps. He was a professor at Princeton University from 1950–61 and at Stanford University from 1961-79. In 1956-1957, he taught at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences. In addition, he often held visiting professorships at the Free University of Berlin; in 1967, Craig was the only professor there to sign a petition asking for an investigation into charges of police brutality towards protesting students. Craig was chair of the history department at Stanford in 1972-1975 and 1978-1979. Between 1975-1985, he served as the vice-president of the Comité International des Sciences Historiques. In 1979, he became an emeritus professor and was awarded the title J. E. Wallace Sterling Professor of Humanities.\n\nDuring his time at Stanford, Craig was considered to be a popular and innovative teacher who improved both undergraduate and graduate teaching, while remaining well liked by the students. After his retirement, he worked as a book reviewer for the \"New York Review of Books\". Some of his reviews attracted controversy, most notably in April 1996, when he praised Daniel Goldhagen's book \"Hitler's Willing Executioners\" and later in September of the same year when he argued that David Irving's work was valuable because of what Craig saw as Irving's devil's advocate role. Craig argued that Irving was usually wrong, but that by promoting what Craig saw as a twisted and wrongheaded view of history with a great deal of élan, Irving forced other historians to fruitfully examine their beliefs about what is known about the Third Reich.\n\nCraig was formerly President of the American Historical Association. In 1953, together with his friend Felix Gilbert, he edited a prosopography of inter-war diplomats entitled \"The Diplomats\", an important source for diplomatic history in the interwar period. He followed this book with studies on the Prussian Army, the Battle of Königgrätz and many aspects of European and German history. Craig was particularly noted for his contribution to the \"Oxford History of Modern Europe\" series entitled \"Germany, 1866-1945\" and its companion volume, \"The Germans\". The latter was a wide-ranging cultural history that explored aspects of being German, such as attitudes towards German-Jewish relations, money, students, women, and democracy, amongst others. The book was a best-seller in both the United States and Germany and Craig was awarded the Pour le Mérite medal for this book. Increasingly interested in cultural history in his later years, Craig subsequently wrote studies of several German writers, most notably Theodor Fontane. During this time, he also emerged as a celebrity in the German-speaking world, frequently appearing as a guest on German television talk shows. By his later years, Craig was widely regarded as the doyen of American historians of Germany, and his opinions carried much weight.\n\nCraig died in 2005, and was survived by his widow Phyllis, four children and eight grandchildren.\n\nCraig saw modern German history as a struggle between the positive, as exemplified by the values of humanist intellectuals, and negative forces in German life, as exemplified by Nazism. In a broader sense, he viewed this conflict as between enlightened spirit and authoritarian power. He was highly critical of those who saw Nazism as the culmination of German national character, while at the same time criticizing those who argued that Nazi Germany was just a \"Betriebsunfall\" (industrial accident) of history. Craig felt that the particular way Otto von Bismarck created the German Empire in 1871 was a tragedy, as it entrenched the forces of authoritarianism in German life. Similarly, Craig viewed the autonomous role of the German Army as a \"State-within-the-State\" as highly adverse to the development of democracy.\n\nCraig considered history not to be a social science, but rather a \"human discipline\". He censured those historians who saw their work as social science and frequently called for historians to return to the methods of former times by seeking to \"interconnect\" history and literature. Craig was noted for his sparse, highly elegant literary style, together with a tendency to keep an ironic distance from his subjects. He was very fond of German literature, and praised the novels of Theodor Fontane as the best portrayal of 19th century Germany, which he considered superior to many works produced by historians. Craig's last project, incomplete at the time of his death, was a survey of novels set in Berlin – Craig's favorite city – in the 20th century.\n\n\n\nResearch resources\n"}
{"id": "27996236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27996236", "title": "Han Kitab", "text": "Han Kitab\n\nThe Han Kitab (; ) was a collection of Chinese Islamic texts, written by Chinese Muslims, which synthesized Islam and Confucianism. It was written in the early 18th century during the Qing dynasty. Its name is similarly synthesised: 'Han' is the Chinese word for Chinese, and 'kitab' means book in Arabic. Liu Zhi wrote his Han Kitab in Nanjing in the early 18th century. The works of Wu Sunqie, Zhang Zhong, and Wang Daiyu were also included in the Han Kitab.\n\nThe Han Kitab was widely read and approved of by later Chinese Muslims such as Ma Qixi, Ma Fuxiang, and Hu Songshan. They believed that Islam could be understood through Confucianism.\n"}
{"id": "3037057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3037057", "title": "Hans Blumenberg", "text": "Hans Blumenberg\n\nHans Blumenberg (born 13 July 1920 in Lübeck; died 28 March 1996 in Altenberge) was a German philosopher and intellectual historian.\n\nHe studied philosophy, German studies and the classics (1939–47, interrupted by World War II) and is considered to be one of the most important German philosophers of the century. He died on 28 March 1996 in Altenberge (near Münster), Germany.\n\nBlumenberg created what has come to be called 'metaphorology', which states that what lies under metaphors and language modisms, is the nearest to the truth (and the farthest from ideologies). His last works, especially \"Care Crosses the River\" (\"Die Sorge geht über den Fluss\"), are attempts to apprehend human reality through its metaphors and involuntary expressions. Digging under apparently meaningless anecdotes of the history of occidental thought and literature, Blumenberg drew a map of the expressions, examples, gestures, that flourished in the discussions of what are thought to be more important matters. Blumenberg's interpretations are extremely unpredictable and personal, all full of signs, indications and suggestions, sometimes ironic. Above all, it is a warning against the force of revealed truth, and for the beauty of a world in confusion.\n\nHans Blumenberg finished his university entrance exam in 1939 at the Katharineum zu Lübeck, as the only student receiving the grade 'Auszeichnung' ('Distinguished'). But, being labelled a \"Half-Jew\", considering that his mother was Jewish, the Catholic Blumenberg was barred from continuing his studies at any regular institution of learning in Germany. Instead, between 1939 and 1941 he was to pursue his studies of philosophy at the theological Universities in Paderborn and Frankfurt, where he was forced to leave towards the end of this period. Back in Lübeck he was enrolled in the workforce at the Drägerwerk AG. In 1944 Blumenberg was detained in a concentration camp, but was released after the intercession of Heinrich Dräger. At the end of the war he was kept hidden by the family of his future wife Ursula. Blumenberg greatly despised the years which he claimed had been stolen from him by the Nazis. His friend Odo Marquard reports that after the war, Blumenberg slept only six times a week in order to make up for lost time. Consequently, the theme of finite life and limited time as a hurdle for scholasticism recurs frequently in Part 2 of \"The Legitimacy of the Modern Age\" (). After 1945 Blumenberg continued his studies of philosophy, Germanistics and classical philology at the University of Hamburg, and graduated in 1947 with a dissertation on the origin of the ontology of the Middle Ages, at the University of Kiel. He received the postdoctoral habilitation in 1950, with a dissertation on 'Ontological Distance, an Inquiry into the Crisis of Edmund Husserl's Phenomenology ('Die ontologische Distanz: Eine Untersuchung über die Krisis der Phänomenologie Husserls'). His mentor during these years was Ludwig Landgrebe. During Blumenberg's lifetime he was a member of the Senate of the German Research Foundation, a professor at several universities in Germany and a joint founder of the research group \"Poetics and Hermeneutics\".\n\nBlumenberg's work was of a predominantly historical nature, characterized by his great philosophical and theological learning, and by the precision and pointedness of his writing style. The early text \"Paradigms for a Metaphorology\" explicates the idea of 'absolute metaphors', by way of examples from the history of ideas and philosophy. According to Blumenberg, metaphors of this kind, such as \"the naked truth\", are to be considered a fundamental aspect of philosophical discourse that cannot be replaced by concepts and reappropriated into the logicity of the 'actual'. The distinctness and meaning of these metaphors constitute the perception of reality as a whole, a necessary prerequisite for human orientation, thought and action. The founding idea of this first text was further developed in works on the metaphors of light in theories of knowledge, of being in navigation (\"Shipwreck with Spectators\", 1979) and the metaphors of books and reading. (\"The Legibility of the World\", 1979)\n\nIn Blumenberg's many inquiries into the history of philosophy the threshold of the late Middle Ages and the early Renaissance provides a focal point (\"Legitimacy of the Modern Age\" and \"The Genesis of the Copernican World\"). Inspired by (amongst others) Ernst Cassirer's functional perspective on the history of ideas and philosophy, and the concomitant view of a rearrangement within the spiritual relationships specific to an epoch, Blumenberg rejects the substantialism of historical continuity — fundamental to the so-called 'theorem of secularization'; the Modern age in his view represents an independent epoch opposed to Antiquity and the Middle Ages by a rehabilitation of human curiosity in reaction to theological absolutism. \"Hans Blumenberg targets Karl Löwith's argument that progress is the secularization of Hebrew and Christian beliefs and argues to the contrary that the modern age, including its belief in progress, grew out of a new secular self-affirmation of culture against the Christian tradition.\" Wolfhart Pannenberg, a student of Löwith, has continued the debate against Blumenberg.\n\nIn his later works (\"Work on Myth, Out of the Cave\") Blumenberg, guided by Arnold Gehlen's view of man as a frail and finite being in need of certain auxiliary ideas in order to face the \"Absolutism of Reality\" and its overwhelming power, increasingly underlined the anthropological background of his ideas: he treated myth and metaphor as a functional equivalent to the distancing, orientational and relieving value of institutions as understood by Gehlen. This context is of decisive importance for Blumenberg's idea of absolute metaphors. Whereas metaphors originally were a means of illustrating the reality of an issue, giving form to understanding, they were later to tend towards a separate existence, in the sciences as elsewhere. This phenomenon may range from the attempt to fully explicate the metaphor while losing sight of its illustrative function, to the experience of becoming immersed in metaphors influencing the seeming logicality of conclusions. The idea of 'absolute metaphors' turns out to be of decisive importance for the ideas of a culture, such as the metaphor of light as truth in Neo-Platonism, to be found in the hermeneutics of Martin Heidegger and Hans-Georg Gadamer. The critical history of concepts may thus serve the depotentiation of metaphorical power. Blumenberg did, however, also warn his readers not to confound the critical deconstruction of myth with the programmatical belief in the overcoming of any mythology. Reflecting his studies of Husserl, Blumenberg's work concludes that in the last resort our potential scientific enlightenment finds its own subjective and anthropological limit in the fact that we are constantly falling back upon the imagery of our contemplations.\n\nHans Blumenberg is the author of:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32160902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32160902", "title": "Harmony of the Gospels (Augustine)", "text": "Harmony of the Gospels (Augustine)\n\nThe Harmony of the Gospels () is a book by the 5th-century saint, Augustine of Hippo.\n\nIn the book (which has four separate parts) Augustine assumes that Matthew was the first Gospel, followed by Mark and Luke and that John was the last. He then analyzes and relates the specific passages between the Gospels, to build a Gospel harmony.\n\nIn the book Augustine views the variations in the gospel accounts in terms of the different focuses of the authors on Jesus: Matthew on royalty, Mark on humanity, Luke on priesthood and John on divinity.\n\n"}
{"id": "29087258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29087258", "title": "Howard A. Ozmon", "text": "Howard A. Ozmon\n\nHoward Augustine Ozmon, Jr. (born 1929) was a retired professor emeritus of Virginia Commonwealth University.\n\nHe lived in Portsmouth, Virginia, and received an A.A. degree from St. Bernard College in Alabama, a B.A. from the University of Virginia Alumni 1954 in Philosophy, a Master of Arts in International and Comparative Education, and an Ed.D. in Philosophy of Education from Teachers College, Columbia University. He taught in the public schools of New York and New Jersey, and at several colleges and universities, including the University of Virginia and Virginia Commonwealth University. He was also professor and chairman of the Department of Education at Chicago State University.\n\nDr. Ozmon is the author of many books and articles dealing with philosophy and education, including the eighth edition of \"Philosophical Foundations of Education\" re-published by Merrill Prentice-Hall (2008 & 2012). He is also a writer of novels, short stories, plays, and books for children including the following:\n\n\nHoward lived in Hollywood, Floridaat the time of his death.\n"}
{"id": "2144930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2144930", "title": "Hsuan Hua", "text": "Hsuan Hua\n\nHsuan Hua (; April 16, 1918 – June 7, 1995), also known as An Tzu and Tu Lun, was a monk of Chan Buddhism and a contributing figure in bringing Chinese Buddhism to the United States in the 20th century.\n\nHsuan Hua founded several institutions in the US. The Dharma Realm Buddhist Association (DRBA) is a Buddhist organization with chapters in North America, Australia and Asia. The City of Ten Thousand Buddhas (CTTB) in Ukiah, California, is one of the first Chan Buddhist monasteries in America. Venerable Master Hsuan Hua founded Dharma Realm Buddhist University at CTTB. The Buddhist Text Translation Society works on the phonetics and translation of Buddhist scriptures from Chinese into English, Vietnamese, Spanish, and many other languages.\n\nHsuan Hua, a native of Shuangcheng County of Jilin (now Wuchang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang), was born Bai Yushu (白玉書) on April 16, 1918. His parents were devout Buddhists. At an early age, Hua became a vegetarian like his mother, and decided to become a Buddhist monk.\n\nAt the age of 15, he took refuge in the Three Jewels under the Venerable Chang Zhi. That same year he began to attend school and studied texts of various Chinese schools of thought, and the fields of medicine, divination, astrology, and physiology. At 19 years of age, Hua became a monastic, under the Dharma name An Tzu. (安慈)\n\nHe made the following eighteen vows to all sentient beings:\n\n1. I vow that as long as there is a single Bodhisattva in the three periods of time throughout the ten directions of the Dharma Realm, to the very end of empty space, who has not accomplished Buddhahood, I too will not attain the right enlightenment.\n\n2. I vow that as long as there is a single Pratyekabuddha in the three periods of time throughout the ten directions of the Dharma Realm, to the very end of empty space, who has not accomplished Buddhahood, I too will not attain the right enlightenment.\n\n3. I vow that as long as there is a single Shravaka in the three periods of time throughout the ten directions of the Dharma Realm, to the very end of empty space, who has not accomplished Buddhahood, I too will not attain the right enlightenment.\n\n4. I vow that as long as there is a single god in the Triple Realm who has not accomplished Buddhahood, I too will not attain the right enlightenment.\n\n5. I vow that as long as there is a single human being in the worlds of the ten directions who has not accomplished Buddhahood, I too will not attain the right enlightenment.\n\n6. I vow that as long as there is a single asura who has not accomplished Buddhahood, I too will not attain the right enlightenment.\n\n7. I vow that as long as there is a single animal who has not accomplished Buddhahood, I too will not attain the right enlightenment.\n\n8. I vow that as long as there is a single hungry ghost who has not accomplished Buddhahood, I too will not attain the right enlightenment.\n\n9. I vow that as long as there is a single hell-dweller who has not accomplished Buddhahood, I too will not attain the right enlightenment.\n\n10. I vow that as long as there is a single god, immortal, human, asura, air-bound or water-bound creature, animate or inanimate object, or a single dragon, beast, ghost, spirit, or the like of the spiritual realm that has taken refuge with me and has not accomplished Buddhahood, I too will not attain the right enlightenment.\n\n11. I vow to fully dedicate all blessings and bliss which I myself ought to receive and enjoy to all living beings of the Dharma Realm.\n\n12. I vow to fully take upon myself all sufferings and hardships of all living beings in the Dharma Realm.\n\n13. I vow to manifest innumerable bodies as a means to gain access into the minds of living beings throughout the universe who do not believe in the Buddha-dharma, causing them to correct their faults and tend toward wholesomeness, repent of their errors and start anew, take refuge in the Triple Jewel, and ultimately accomplish Buddhahood.\n\n14. I vow that all living beings who see my face or even hear my name will fix their thoughts on Bodhi and quickly accomplish the Buddha Way.\n\n15. I vow to respectfully observe the Buddha's instructions and cultivate the practice of eating only one meal per day.\n\n16. I vow to enlighten all sentient beings, universally responding to the multitude of differing potentials.\n\n17. I vow to obtain the five eyes, six spiritual powers, and the freedom of being able to fly in this very life.\n\n18. I vow that all of my vows will certainly be fulfilled.\nAlso:\nI vow to save the innumerable living beings.\nI vow to eradicate the inexhaustible afflictions.\n\nI vow to study the illimitable Dharma-doors.\n\nI vow to accomplish the unsurpassed Buddha Way.\n\nIn 1959, Hsuan Hua sought to bring Chinese Buddhism to the West. He instructed his disciples in America to establish a Buddhist association, initially known as The Buddhist Lecture Hall, which was renamed the Sino-American Buddhist Association before taking its present name: the Dharma Realm Buddhist Association.\n\nHsuan Hua traveled to Australia in 1961 and taught there for one year, returning to Hong Kong in 1962. That same year, at the invitation of American Buddhists, he traveled to the United States; his intent was to \"come to America to create Patriarchs, to create Buddhas, to create Bodhisattvas\".\n\nHsuan Hua resided in San Francisco, where he built a lecture hall. Hsuan Hua began to attract young Americans who were interested in meditation. He conducted daily meditation sessions and frequent Sutra lectures.\n\nAt that time, the Cuban Missile Crisis occurred between the United States and the Soviet Union, and Hsuan Hua embarked on a fasting period for thirty-five days to pray for an end to the hostilities and for world peace. In 1967, Hsuan Hua moved the Buddhist Lecture Hall back to Chinatown, locating it in the Tianhou Temple.\n\nIn 1968, Hsuan Hua held a Shurangama Study and Practice Summer Session. Over thirty students from the University of Washington in Seattle came to study the Buddha’s teachings. After the session was concluded, five young Americans (Bhikṣu Heng Chyan, Heng Jing, and Heng Shou, and Bhikṣuṇīs Heng Yin and Heng Ch'ih) requested permission to take full ordination.\n\nVenerable Hsuan Hua lectured on the entire \"\" in 1968 while he was in the United States. These lectures were recorded in an eight-part series of books containing the sutra and a traditionally rigorous form of commentary that addresses each passage. It was again lectured by the original translator monks and nuns of the City of Ten Thousand Buddhas at Dharma Realm Buddhist University in the summer of 2003.\n\nWith the founding of his American Sangha, Hsuan Hua embarked on his personal vision for Buddhism in the United States:\n\nBecause of the increasing numbers of people who wished to become monks and nuns under Hsuan Hua's guidance, in 1972 he decided to hold ordination ceremonies at Gold Mountain Dhyana Monastery. Two monks and one nun received ordination. Subsequent ordination platforms have been held at the City of Ten Thousand Buddhas in 1976, 1979, 1982, 1989, 1991, and 1992, and progressively larger numbers of people have received full ordination. Over two hundred people from countries all over the world were ordained under him.\n\nHaving traveled to Thailand and Burma in his youth to investigate the Southern Tradition of Buddhism, Hsuan Hua wanted to bridge what he perceived as a rift between the Northern (Mahayana) and Southern (Theravada) traditions. In an address to Ajahn Sumedho and the monastic community at Amaravati Buddhist Monastery on October 6, 1990, Hsuan Hua stated:\n\nOn the occasion of the opening ceremony for the Dharma Realm Buddhist University, Hsuan Hua presented Venerable K. Sri Dhammananda of the Theravada tradition with an honorary Ph.D. He also donated a major piece of the land that would become Abhayagiri Buddhist Monastery, a Theravada Buddhist monastery in the Thai Forest tradition of Ajahn Chah, located in Redwood Valley, California.\n\nHsuan Hua would also invite Bhikkhus from both traditions to jointly conduct the High Ordination.\n\nFrom July 18 to the 24th of 1987, Hsuan Hua hosted the \"Water, Land, and Air Repentance Dharma Assembly\", a centuries-old ritual often seen as the \"king of dharma services\" in Chinese Buddhism, at the City of Ten Thousand Buddhas and invited over seventy Buddhists from mainland China to attend. This was the first time the service was known to have been held in North America.\n\nOn November 6, 1990, Hsuan Hua sent his disciples to Beijing to bring the Dragon Treasury () edition of the Chinese Buddhist canon back to CTTB, furthering his goal of bringing Buddhism to the US.\n\nOn June 7, 1995, Hsuan Hua died in Los Angeles at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. His sudden passing came as a shock to most of his disciples.\n\nHsuan Hua's funeral lasted from June 8 to July 29. On June 17, Hsuan Hua's body was taken from Southern to Northern California, returning to the City of Ten Thousand Buddhas. All major services during the funeral were presided over by Venerable Ming Yang, abbot of Longhua Temple in Shanghai and a longtime friend of Hsuan Hua's.\n\nOn July 28, monks from both Theravada and Mahayana traditions hosted a memorial ceremony and cremation. The two thousand and some followers from the United States, Canada, and various Asian and European countries, including many of Hsuan Hua’s American disciples, came to CTTB to take part in the funeral service. Letters of condolences from Buddhist monks and dignitaries, including from President Bush, were read during the memorial service.\n\nA day after the cremation, July 29, Hsuan Hua's remains were scattered in the air above the City of Ten Thousand Buddhas by two disciples, Heng Sure and Heng Chau, one of Master Hua's first disciples, from a hot air balloon.\n\nAfter the funeral, memorial services commemorating Hsuan Hua's life were held in various parts of the world, including Taiwan, China, and Canada. His śarīra (relics) were distributed to many of his temples, disciples and followers.\n\n"}
{"id": "26366194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26366194", "title": "Index of continental philosophy articles", "text": "Index of continental philosophy articles\n\nThis is a list of articles in continental philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "7793672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7793672", "title": "Jerusalem School of Synoptic Research", "text": "Jerusalem School of Synoptic Research\n\nThe Jerusalem School of Synoptic Research is a consortium of Jewish and Christian scholars that study the Synoptic Gospels in light of the historic, linguistic and cultural milieu of Jesus. The beginnings of the collegial relationships that formed the Jerusalem School of Synoptic Research can be traced back to a Jewish scholar and a Christian scholar, respectively David Flusser and Robert L. Lindsey in the 1960s. For the past 50 years, ‘Christian scholars fluent in Hebrew and living in the land of Israel have collaborated with Jewish scholars to examine Jesus’ sayings from a Judaic and Hebraic perspective’.\n\nThe consortium's own website states three assumptions, shared by its members, namely, \"1) the importance of Hebrew language, 2) the relevance of Jewish culture\", and 3) the significance of Semitisms underneath sections of the Synoptic Gospels that in turn often yield results to the interconnection (of dependence) between the Synoptic Gospels. (These three assumptions, and not one synoptic theory, are the shared presuppositions of Jerusalem School members.)\n\nThe first two assumptions are perhaps not shared by the majority of New Testament scholars, but are neither considered to be fringe positions. Today, the common view is that Jesus and His milieu spoke Aramaic, however that Hebrew was spoken and even important is not unique to the Jerusalem School of Synoptic Research. Many more New Testament Scholars worldwide have increasingly affirmed the importance of Jewish culture for the understanding of Jesus. John P. Meier is exemplary of this significant trend when he poignantly criticizes scholarship in the twentieth century that has paid lip service to the 'Jewish Jesus' but has not really fleshed this out, stating that if we do not have a halachic Jesus, we don't have an historical Jesus. \nThe third assumption of the Jerusalem School basically seems to be concerned with not holding to an assumed-default position of Markan priority. It is especially the third assumption in more individually pronounced forms that has invited a response of the academic community. Some scholars have perceived the Jerusalem School as a group that holds to Lukan Priority. But this perception is incomplete since it is only Robert Lindsey and David Bivin who have argued strongly for Lukan priority. The third methodological assumption of the Jerusalem School is much broader and open, without any one theory being affirmed:\n\nMany scholars affirm Semitic quality of the Synoptic Gospel material as indicative of earlier material, but how to determine Semitic quality has been hotly debated. Recently this subject of a Hebrew Gospel and Semitic material has been discussed by James R. Edwards (although with somewhat differing results than Jerusalem School members). The most extensive Jerusalem School publication on Semitic material and types of Semitic interference can be found in an extended essay and appendix (critical notes) in Jesus' Last Week (Leiden: Brill, 2006).\n\nApart from extensive individual publications of the school's members that often reflect the Jerusalem School's approach (some of which are footnoted here), some members have bundled some of their efforts in a joint effort. This combined effort from members of the Jerusalem School of Synoptic Research resulted in thus far two volumes. The first volume (2006) is \"Jesus' Last Week: Jerusalem Studies in the Synoptic Gospels — Volume One\", edited by R. Steven Notley, Marc Turnage, and Brian Becker. The second volume (2014) is \"The language environment of first century Judaea : Jerusalem studies in the Synoptic Gospels — Volume Two\", edited by Buth, R. and Notley.\n\nBoth affirmation and strong criticism has come because of a lay-oriented co-authored book \"Understanding the Difficult Words of Jesus\" by David Bivin and Roy B. Blizzard Jr. which was reviewed by Michael L. Brown. The book itself is not published by the Jerusalem School, and only one of the co-authors is of the Jerusalem School. Yet, Brown not only questioned the work of individual school member David Bivin and co-author Roy Blizzard Jr., but by association also the Jerusalem School of Synoptic Research as a whole. Yet, even in his criticism of reconstructing a Hebrew Gospel (of which many Jerusalem School members are skeptical of as well), he affirms three significant points, which dovetail with the methodology—the three assumptions—of the Jerusalem School:\nA further academic description of the Jerusalem School and its methodology and dissemination in the lay and academic field is found in \"Hebräisches Evangelium und synoptische Überlieferung: Untersuchungen zum hebräischen Hintergrund der Evangelien\".\nJesus' Last Week\n\nThe recent combined effort of Jerusalem School members in \"Jesus' Last Week: Jerusalem Studies in the Synoptic Gospels - Volume One\", a work clearly catered toward the academic community has received positive reviews, for example by Nina L. Collins in the journal \"Novum Testamentum\". She closed her review by stating that:\n\nA mixed review found the overall discussion in the volume to be \"stimulating, even provocative from the perspective of current critical Synoptic studies.\" However, the review contained also some concerns:\n\n"}
{"id": "49404905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49404905", "title": "Joseph S. O'Leary", "text": "Joseph S. O'Leary\n\nJoseph Stephen O’Leary is an Irish Roman Catholic theologian. Born in Cork, 1949, he studied literature and theology at Maynooth College (BA 1969; DD 1976). He also studied at the Gregorian University, Rome (1972-3) and in Paris (1977–79). Ordained for the Diocese of Cork and Ross in 1973, he was a chaplain at University College Cork (1980–81). He taught theology at the University of Notre Dame (1981–82) and Duquesne University (1982–83) before moving to Japan in August, 1983. He worked as a researcher at the Nanzan Institute for Religion and Culture, Nanzan University, Nagoya (1985–86), where he later held the Roche Chair for Interreligious Research (2015–16). He taught in the Faculty of Letters at Sophia University, Tokyo, from 1988 to 2015.\n\nOther assignments include teaching philosophy and theology in the Philippines in 1986–87, the Lady Donnellan Lecturership at Trinity College Dublin, in the spring of 1991, the Chaire Étienne Gilson at the Institut Catholique de Paris, March, 2011, and visiting fellowships at Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in 1997 and the Humboldt Universität, Berlin (with the Romano Guardini Stiftung) in 2012.\n\nJoseph O’Leary is editorial assistant to The Japan Mission Journal, which often publishes articles of interreligious interest, and is a regular participant in the Tokyo Buddhist Discussion Group. He frequently attends academic conferences, including the quadrennial Origenianum and Gregory of Nyssa conferences, the Oxford Patristic Conference, the biennial Enrico Castelli conference in philosophy of religion (University of Rome La Sapienza), the International James Joyce Symposium, the International Association for the Study of Irish Literatures, the International Association for Buddhist Studies, and many conferences held at Cerisy-la-Salle in Normandy.\n\nWith Richard Kearney and William Desmond, O'Leary was named one of \"three Irish Philosophers plying their trade abroad\" in Irish Times (2003).\n\nStudying English and French literature under Professors Peter Connolly and Brendan Devlin at Maynooth, O’Leary was particularly influenced by the Geneva School critics such as Georges Poulet and Jean Starobinski.\n\nReturning to academic involvement with literature in 1988 he focused in his teaching on Henry James, T. S. Eliot, Yeats. Joyce, and Beckett. Derrida, Lacan, and Blanchot became key theoretical references. In addition to English Literature he taught courses on European culture and on the Bible as literature. He remains concerned with the theological significance of modernist literature and is currently working on a book on Joyce from this perspective.\n\nIn his graduate studies in theology at Maynooth, O’Leary specialized in patristics, working on Augustine's De Trinitate (with much reference to Augustine's dialogue with Plotinus) for his doctoral thesis. In Paris he attended courses on patristics by Pierre Nautin and Charles Kannengiesser. Discussing Heidegger and theology with Jean Beaufret, François Fédier, François Vezin, Emmanuel Martineau, Jean-François Courtine, Jean-Luc Marion, Stanislas Breton, Jean Greisch, and Maria Villela-Petit, he developed a critical approach to patristic tradition drawing on the Heideggerian project of overcoming metaphysics. With Richard Kearney he organized a seminar at the Irish College, Paris, on 24 June 1979, in which Beaufret, Ricoeur, and Emmanuel Levinas participated, and which led to the publication of \"Heidegger te la question de Dieu\" (Grasset, 1980; 2nd ed., PUF 2009).\n\nThe Heideggerian approach was spelled out programmatically in his first book, \"Questioning Back: The Overcoming of Metaphysics in Christian Tradition\" (Minneapolis: Winston-Seabury 1985), which also showed the influence of Derrida and of his first encounters with Buddhist philosophy. This book sketches a strategy for rereading Christian texts in a counter-metaphysical key. Though convinced of the truth and validity of classical Christian metaphysical theology, O’Leary is also convinced of the need to ‘step back’ behind it to the ‘matter itself,’ that is, to the phenomenality of the biblical events in the horizons of contemporary understanding. Drawing on Heidegger to renew the old questions of Luther and Harnack about the patristic synthesis of the Bible and Greek thought, he advocates a deconstructive method of reading patristic texts that brings out the tensions and flaws in the Athens-Jerusalem syntheses as they show up in the texture of the writing of Origen, Gregory of Nyssa, and Augustine. He has since published a number of essays on these patristic authors, in particular a book-length study, Christianisme et philosophie chez Origène (Paris: Éditions du Cerf, ‘Philosophie & Théologie,’ 2011).\n\nThe theme of religious pluralism comes to the fore in his second book, \"La vérité chrétienne à l'âge du pluralisme religieux\" (Éditions du Cerf, ‘Cogitatio Fidei,’ 1994) and its rewritten English version, \"Religious Pluralism and Christian Truth\" (Edinburgh University Press, 1996). He attempts to tackle this theme with philosophical finesse in a critical dialogue with Derrida.\n\nConceiving theology as a play of reflective judgment in a mobile and pluralistic context, O’Leary explored the possibilities of a Buddhist-inspired theological conventionalism in \"L’art du jugement en théologie\" (Éditions du Cerf, ‘Cogitatio Fidei,’ 2011) and again in \"Conventional and Ultimate Truth: A Key for Fundamental Theology\" (University of Notre Dame Press, ‘Thresholds in Philosophy and Theology,’ ed. Jeffrey Bloechl and Kevin Hart, 2015). The latter book expounds a basic method under the rubrics of reflective judgment and conventional truth. Then it visits seven loci that challenge theological thinking today: modernist literature, metaphysics and its overcoming, Scripture, religious experience, negative theology, religious pluralism, and dogma. In each case classical paradigms are unsettled and a more modest and flexible path of reflection and articulation is limned.\n\nThese volumes on fundamental theology advance a view of doctrinal language that is increasingly influenced by the Buddhist dyad of conventional and ultimate truth. The basic thesis is that religious traditions can function as vehicles of ultimacy, but that to do so authentically and effectively they need to fully recognize their conventional status as linguistic constructions embedded in history. Warding off nominalism and relativism, O’Leary argues against Derrida and Western interpreters of Nagarjuna on the notion of truth, in order to uphold the objective reference of doctrinal statements despite their conventional fabric.\n\nFurther fruits of O’Leary's engagement with Buddhist philosophy are his Étienne Gilson lectures at the Institut Catholique de Paris, 2011 (published as Philosophie occidentale et concepts bouddhistes, PUF, 2011) and his forthcoming commentary on the Vimalakirti Sutra for the collection ‘Christian Commentaries on Non-Christian Sacred Texts’ (ed. Catherine Cornille).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23590577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23590577", "title": "Józef Gołuchowski", "text": "Józef Gołuchowski\n\nJózef Gołuchowski (1797–1858) was a Polish philosopher.\n\nGołuchowski, a professor at Vilnius University, was co-creator of the Polish Romanticist \"national philosophy.\" He preached the concept of the nation as a creation of God, with a peculiar \"national spirit,\" that realized the ideal of a hierarchical society in which each individual is a necessary fragment of the whole. He opposed 18th-century materialist philosophy from an irrationalist position. In the theory of knowledge, he preached the primacy of feeling and intuition over reason. \n\n"}
{"id": "12045081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12045081", "title": "Kaivalya", "text": "Kaivalya\n\nKaivalya (कैवल्य), is the ultimate goal of Raja yoga and means \"solitude\", \"detachment\" or \"isolation\", a \"vrddhi\"-derivation from \"kevala\" \"alone, isolated\". It is the isolation of purusha from prakṛti, and subsequent liberation from rebirth, i.e., Moksha. Kaivalya-Mukti is described in some Upanishads such as Muktika and Kaivalya as the most superior form of Moksha which can grant liberation both within this life Jivanmukti and after death Videhamukti and the essence of all Upanishads. \n\nThe 34 Yoga Sutras of Patanjali of the fourth chapter deal with impressions left by our endless cycles of birth and the rationale behind the necessity of erasing such impressions. It portrays the yogi, who has attained \"kaivalya\", as an entity who has gained independence from all bondages and achieved the absolute true consciousness or \"ritambhara prajna\" described in the Samadhi Pada.\n\n\"…Or, to look from another angle, the power of pure consciousness settles in its own pure nature.\"\n\"—Kaivalya Pada: Sutra 34.\"\n\n\"Only the minds born of meditation are free from karmic impressions.\"\n—\"Kaivalya Pada: Sutra 6.\"\n\n\"Since the desire to live is eternal, impressions are also beginningless.\nThe impressions being held together by cause, effect, basis and support, they disappear with the disappearance of these four.\"\n—\"Kaivalya Pada: Sutra 10-11.\"\n\nThe terms kevala, kaivalya, or kaivalya-mukti are encountered in the Upanishads, including the \"Śvetāśvatara\" (I and VI) \"Kaivalya\" (25), the \"Amṛtabindu\" (29) and the \"Muktikā\" (1.18, 26, 31) Upanishads .\n\nThe \"Muktika\" Upanishad (sloka 1.18-29) as explained by Rama to Hanuman, as the most superior form of Moksha being the essence of all Upanishads, and higher than the four types of Mukti namely: Salokya, Saameepya, Sarupya, & Sayujya . In section 2 of the same Upanishad, Rama mentioned that Kaivalya-Mukti is the ultimate liberation (both jivanmukti and videha-mukti) from prarabdha karma and it can be attained by everyone through studying the 108 authentic Upanishads thoroughly from a realized guru, which will destroy the three forms of bodies (gross, subtle and causal) .\n\nThe \"Yogatattva\" Upanishad (16-18) reads, \"Kaivalya is the very nature of the self, the supreme state (paramam padam). It is without parts and is stainless. It is the direct intuition of the Real-existence, intelligence and bliss. it is devoid of birth, existence, destruction, recognition, and experience. This is called knowledge.\"\n\nFollowing the rise of Hinduism with the powerful Vijayanagara Empire in the 14th century, Veerashaivism experienced growth in southern India.\nSome Veerashaiva scholars of the time such as Nijaguna Shivayogi (c. 1500) attempted to unify Veerashaivism with Shankara's Advaitism.\nHis best known work is the \"Kaivalya Paddhati\", a collection of swara cavhanas set to classical ragas.\n\nOther popular writers of this tradition are Nijaguna Shivayogi, Shadaksharadeva(Muppina Shadakshari), Mahalingaranga and Chidanandavadhuta.\nThe Kaivalya literature was entirely in the Kannada language.\n\nVijñānabhiksu was a sixteenth-century Vedāntic philosopher. He writes about kaivalya explicitly in the fourth and final chapter of his \"Yogasārasamgraha\".\n\nIn Assam, some Hindus call their sect Kaval Dharma.\nIn this sect, \"kevali\" is the highest stage at which the bhagat becomes unconscious of everything else except the one all pervading Entity.\nMoamara and Kardoiguria Satras as the principal Satras of the Keval sect.\n\nKaivalya also known as Kevala Jnana means omniscience in Jainism and is roughly translated as absolute knowledge[1] or supreme knowledge.[2]\n\nKevala jnana is believed to be an intrinsic quality of all souls. This quality is masked by karmic particles that surround the soul. Every soul has the potential to obtain omniscience by shedding off these karmic particles. Jain scriptures speak of twelve stages through which the soul achieves this goal. A soul who has attained kevala jnana is called a kevalin (केवलिन्).[3] According to the Jains, only kevalins can comprehend objects in all aspects and manifestations; others are only capable of partial knowledge.[4]\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16379853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16379853", "title": "Leonidas Donskis", "text": "Leonidas Donskis\n\nLeonidas Donskis (13 August 1962 – 21 September 2016) was a Jewish-Lithuanian philosopher, political theorist, historian of ideas, social analyst, and political commentator, professor of politics and head of \"VDU Academia Cum Laude\" at Vytautas Magnus University, Honorary Consul of Finland in Kaunas and deputy chairman of the Lithuanian Jewish Community. He was also the member of the European Parliament (MEP) from 2009 to 2014.\n\nAs a public figure in Lithuania, he acted as a defender of human rights and civil liberties. In 2004, Donskis has been awarded by the European Commission the title of the Ambassador for Tolerance and Diversity in Lithuania. A center-right politician, he has always been opposed to all extreme or exclusionary attitudes and forms of violent politics, and, instead, has been leaning to liberalism with its advocacy of individual reason and conscience, ability to coexist with democratic programs of other non-exclusive ideologies, and moderation.\n\nHe died on 21 September 2016, in Vilnius Airport of an apparent heart attack.\n\nLeonidas Donskis was born in Klaipėda in Lithuanian Jewish family. He graduated from Lithuanian State Conservatoire (now Lithuanian Academy of Music and Theater), majoring in philology and theater, and then pursued his graduate studies in philosophy at the University of Vilnius, Lithuania. Having received his first doctorate in philosophy from the University of Vilnius, he later earned his second doctorate in social and moral philosophy from the University of Helsinki, Finland.\n\nHis main scholarly interests lie in philosophy of history, philosophy of culture, philosophy of literature, philosophy of the social sciences, civilization theory, political theory, history of ideas, and studies in Central and East European thought.\n\n\nA wandering scholar, he has researched and lectured in the United States, Great Britain, and Europe. He has been involved in various public philosophical and political debates at the Institute of Art and Ideas. Donskis has been an IREX-International Research and Exchanges Board Fellow, a Fulbright Scholar, and a Visiting Professor of Philosophy at Dickinson College in Pennsylvania, USA; a Swedish Institute Guest Researcher at the University of Gothenburg and a Guest Professor of East European Studies at the University of Uppsala, Sweden; a Leverhulme Trust Visiting Research Fellow at the University of Bradford, Great Britain; Paschal P. Vacca Chair (Distinguished Visiting Professor) of Liberal Arts at the University of Montevallo in Alabama, USA; and a Fellow at the Collegium Budapest/Institute for Advanced Study, Hungary.\n\nUntil 7 June 2009, Leonidas Donskis acted as Professor of Political Science at Vytautas Magnus University in Kaunas, Lithuania. From 2005 to 2009, he served as Professor and Dean of the Faculty of Political Science and Diplomacy at Vytautas Magnus University. In addition, he acts as Docent of Social and Moral Philosophy at the University of Helsinki, and as Extraordinary Visiting Professor of Cultural Theory at Tallinn University, Estonia. From September 2014 Leonidas Donskis acts as Vice-President for research at ISM University of Management and Economics. He is also a member of the editorial board of the magazine New Eastern Europe.\n\nLeonidas Donskis was invited to campaign for the European Parliament by the Lithuanian Liberal Movement Party in 2009. He was the number one candidate on the list of the Party.\n\nAt the European Parliament (term 2009–2014) Leonidas Donskis worked as a part of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe group (ALDE), which is the third largest political group in the Parliament. He was a member of the Development Committee and member of the Subcommittee on Human Rights and also a substitute member at the committee of Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.\n\nLeonidas Donskis was the full member of the EU and Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia Parliamentary Cooperation Committee delegation, as well as, the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the EURONEST. He was also a substitute member of the EU relations with Israel, Moldova and the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly delegations.\n\nDonskis has been published widely in international refereed journals, and is the author or editor of more than fifty books, part of them in English, including:\n\n\nDonskis’s works originally written in Lithuanian and English have been translated into Danish, Estonian, Finnish, German, Hungarian, Italian, Korean, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, and Ukrainian. He edits book series for Editions Rodopi, B. V. (Amsterdam and New York), one in Baltic studies (), and another – VIBS-Value Inquiry Book Series. From 2005 to 2009, served as a Member of the Standing Committee for the Humanities (SCH) in the European Science Foundation (ESF).\n\n"}
{"id": "30967826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30967826", "title": "Lion Throne", "text": "Lion Throne\n\nThe Lion Throne is the English term used to identify the throne of the Dalai Lama of Tibet. It specifically refers to the throne historically used by Dalai Lamas at Potala Palace in Lhasa.\n\n"}
{"id": "23270949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23270949", "title": "List of philosophers of mind", "text": "List of philosophers of mind\n\nThis is a list of philosophers of mind.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIDKA\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33622470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33622470", "title": "List of valid argument forms", "text": "List of valid argument forms\n\nOf the many and varied argument forms that can possibly be constructed, only very few are valid argument forms. In order to evaluate these forms, statements are put into logical form. Logical form replaces any sentences or ideas with letters to remove any bias from content and allow one to evaluate the argument without any bias due to its subject matter.\n\nBeing a valid argument does not necessarily mean the conclusion will be true. It is valid because if the premises are true, then the conclusion has to be true. This can be proven for any valid argument form using a truth table which shows that there is no situation in which there are all true premises and a false conclusion.\n\nIn syllogistic logic, there are 256 possible ways to construct categorical syllogisms using the A, E, I, and O statement forms in the square of opposition. Of the 256, only 24 are valid forms. Of the 24 valid forms, 15 are unconditionally valid, and 9 are conditionally valid.\n\nOne valid argument form is known as modus ponens, not to be mistaken with modus tollens which is another valid argument form that has a like-sounding name and structure. Modus ponens (sometimes abbreviated as MP) says that if one thing is true, then another will be. It then states that the first is true. The conclusion is that the second thing is true. It is shown below in logical form.\n\nBefore being put into logical form the above statement could have been something like below.\n\nThe first two statements are the premises while the third is the conclusion derived from them.\n\nAnother form of argument is known as modus tollens (commonly abbreviated MT). In this form, you start with the same first premise as with modus ponens. However, the second part of the premise is denied, leading to the conclusion that the first part of the premise should be denied as well. It is shown below in logical form.\n\nWhen modus tollens is used with actual content, it looks like below.\n\nMuch like modus ponens and modus tollens, hypothetical syllogism (sometimes abbreviated as HS) contains two premises and a conclusion. It is however, slightly more complicated than the first two. In short, it states that if one thing happens, another will as well. If that second thing happens, a third will follow it. Therefore, if the first thing happens, it is inevitable that the third will too. It is shown below in logical form.\n\nWhen put into words it looks like below.\n\nDisjunctive syllogism (sometimes abbreviated DS) has one of the same characteristics as modus tollens in that it contains a premise, then in a second premise it denies a statement, leading to the conclusion. In Disjunctive Syllogism, the first premise establishes two options. The second takes one away, so the conclusion states that the remaining one must be true. It is shown below in logical form.\n\nWhen used A and B are replaced with real life examples it looks like below.\n\nDisjunctive syllogism takes two options and narrows it down to one.\n\nAnother valid form of argument is known as constructive dilemma or sometimes just 'dilemma'. It does not leave the user with one statement alone at the end of the argument, instead, it gives an option of two different statements. The first premise gives an option of two different statements. Then it states that if the first one happens, there will be a particular outcome and if the second happens, there will be a separate outcome. The conclusion is that either the first outcome or the second outcome will happen. The criticism with this form is that it does not give a definitive conclusion; just a statement of possibilities. When it is written in argument form it looks like below.\n\nWhen content is inserted in place of the letters, it looks like below.\n\nThere is a slightly different version of dilemma that uses negation rather than affirming something known as destructive dilemma. When put in argumentative form it looks like below.\n"}
{"id": "3371493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3371493", "title": "Misconduct", "text": "Misconduct\n\nIn law, misconduct is wrongful, improper, or unlawful conduct motivated by premeditated or intentional purpose or by obstinate indifference to the consequences of one's acts. Misconduct can be considered an unacceptable or improper behavior, especially for a professional person. Two categories of misconduct are sexual misconduct and official misconduct. In connection with school discipline, \"misconduct\" is generally understood to be student behavior that is unacceptable to school officials but does not violate criminal statutes, including absenteeism, tardiness, bullying, and inappropriate language. (Special Education Dictionary, 2003, LRP Publications) Misconduct in the workplace generally falls under two categories. Minor misconduct is seen as unacceptable but is not a criminal offense (e.g. being late, faking qualifications). Gross misconduct can lead to dismissal (e.g. stealing or sexual harassment).\n\n\nMisconduct refers to an action, rather than neglecting to take action, or inaction which could be referred to as poor performance.\n\n\nThe failure to understand and manage ethical risks played a significant role in the financial crisis. The difference between bad business decisions and business misconduct can be hard to determine, and there is a thin line between the ethics of using only financial incentives to gauge performance and the use of holistic measures that include ethics, transparency and responsibility of stakeholders. From CEO's to traders and brokers, all-too-tempting lucrative financial incentives existed for performance in the financial industry.\nThe past widespread financial misconduct led to a call for financial reform. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was passed in 2010 to increase accountability and transparency in the financial industry and protect consumers from deceptive financial practices. Domestic inquiry A domestic inquiry typically follows a ‘show cause’ letter, which is sent to the employee requesting an explanation for the alleged misconduct. If the response is not satisfactory, the employer will move to the more formal domestic inquiry. Domestic inquiry should be carried out as soon as possible following accusations of misconduct and all activities should be formalized and recorded in full. Legally it is important than the investigation be carried out objectively – the investigating officers, for example, should be unconnected to the incident, and the employee should be given full opportunity to state their own case and present evidence in their favor. Union representatives or colleagues should be allowed to sit in during the process if the employer requests their presence, although the employee can’t insist on legal representation. An employer may, on the grounds of misconduct inconsistent with the fulfillment of the express or implied conditions of his services, after due inquiry:\n\n"}
{"id": "4159579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4159579", "title": "Münchhausen trilemma", "text": "Münchhausen trilemma\n\nIn epistemology, the Münchhausen trilemma is a thought experiment used to demonstrate the impossibility of proving any truth, even in the fields of logic and mathematics. If it is asked how any knowledge is known to be true, proof may be provided. Yet that same question can be asked of the proof, and any subsequent proof. The Münchhausen trilemma is that there are only three options when providing proof in this situation:\n\n\nThe trilemma, then, is the decision among the three equally unsatisfying options.\n\nThe name \"Münchhausen-Trilemma\" was coined by the German philosopher Hans Albert in 1968 in reference to a \"trilemma\" of \"dogmatism versus infinite regress versus psychologism\" used by Karl Popper. It is a reference to the problem of \"bootstrapping\", based on the story of Baron Munchausen (in German, \"Münchhausen\") pulling himself and the horse on which he was sitting out of a mire by his own hair.\n\nIt is also known as Agrippa's trilemma after a similar argument by Sextus Empiricus, which was attributed to Agrippa the Skeptic by Diogenes Laërtius. Sextus' argument, however, consists of five (not three) \"modes\". Popper in his original 1935 publication mentions neither Sextus nor Agrippa, but attributes his trilemma to Jakob Fries.\n\nIn contemporary epistemology, advocates of coherentism are supposed to accept the \"circular\" horn of the trilemma; foundationalists rely on the axiomatic argument. The view that accepts infinite regress is called infinitism.\n\nThe following tropes for Greek skepticism are given by Sextus Empiricus, in his \"Outlines of Pyrrhonism\". According to Sextus, they are attributed only \"to the more recent skeptics\" and by Diogenes Laërtius attributed to Agrippa. The tropes are:\n\n\n[165] According to the mode deriving from dispute, we find that undecidable dissension about the matter proposed has come about both in ordinary life and among philosophers. Because of this we are not able to choose or to rule out anything, and we end up with suspension of judgment. [166] In the mode deriving from infinite regress, we say that what is brought forward as a source of conviction for the matter proposed itself needs another such source, which itself needs another, and so \"ad infinitum\", so that we have no point from which to begin to establish anything, and suspension of judgment follows. [167] In the mode deriving from relativity, as we said above, the existing object appears to be such-and-such relative to the subject judging and to the things observed together with it, but we suspend judgment on what it is like in its nature. [168] We have the mode from hypothesis when the Dogmatists, being thrown back \"ad infinitum\", begin from something which they do not establish but claim to assume simply and without proof in virtue of a concession. [169] The reciprocal mode occurs when what ought to be confirmatory of the object under investigation needs to be made convincing by the object under investigation; then, being unable to take either in order to establish the other, we suspend judgment about both.\n\nWith reference to these five tropes, the first and third are a short summary of the ten original grounds of doubt which were the basis of the earlier skepticism. The three additional ones show a progress in the sceptical system, and a transition from the common objections derived from the fallibility of sense and opinion, to more abstract and metaphysical grounds of doubt.\n\nAccording to Victor Brochard, \"the five tropes can be regarded as the most radical and most precise formulation of skepticism that has ever been given. In a sense, they are still irresistible today.\"\n\nJakob Friedrich Fries formulated a similar trilemma in which statements can be accepted either:\n\nThe first two possibilities are rejected by Fries as unsatisfactory, requiring his adoption the third option. Karl Popper argued that a way to avoid the trilemma was to use an intermediate approach incorporating some dogmatism, some infinite regress, and some perceptual experience.\n\nThe argument proposed by Hans Albert runs as follows: All of the only three possible attempts to get a certain justification must fail:\n\nAn English translation of a quote from the original German text by Albert is as follows:\n\nHere, one has a mere choice between:\nAlbert stressed repeatedly that there is no limitation of the Münchhausen trilemma to deductive conclusions. The verdict concerns also inductive, causal, transcendental, and all otherwise structured justifications. They all will be in vain.\n\nTherefore, certain justification is impossible to attain. Once having given up the classical idea of certain knowledge, one can stop the process of justification where one wants to stop, presupposed one is ready to start critical thinking at this point always anew if necessary.\n\nThis trilemma rounds off the classical problem of justification in the theory of knowledge.\n\nThe failure of proving exactly any truth as expressed by the Münchhausen trilemma does not have to lead to dismissal of objectivity, as with relativism. One example of an alternative is the fallibilism of Karl Popper and Hans Albert, accepting that certainty is impossible, but that it is best to get as close as possible to truth, while remembering our uncertainty.\n\nIn Albert's view, the impossibility to prove any certain truth is not in itself a certain truth. After all, one needs to assume some basic rules of logical inference to derive his result, and in doing so must either abandon the pursuit of \"certain\" justification, as above, or attempt to justify these rules, etc. He suggests that it has to be taken as true as long as nobody has come forward with a truth which is scrupulously justified as a certain truth. Several philosophers defied Albert's challenge; his responses to such criticisms can be found in his long addendum to his \"Treatise on Critical Reason\" and later articles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3346091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3346091", "title": "No Kidding!", "text": "No Kidding!\n\nNo Kidding! International is an international non-profit social club created for singles and couples who have never had children regardless of the reason. Such people are generally described as \"childless\" by society at large, but some of their members who are childless by choice prefer the term \"childfree\" in order to highlight the voluntary nature of their circumstance. The first chapter of this organization was begun by Jerry Steinberg (the \"Founding Non-Father\" of No Kidding!) in Vancouver, British Columbia, in 1984. There are numerous chapters in Canada, the United States and several other countries.\n\nThe stated purpose of No Kidding! is to give childless and childfree adults a place to share common interests not involving children, as well as to provide the opportunity to make new like-minded friends. Anyone who has never been a parent, regardless of the reason, is permitted to join. The club organizes a wide range of activities, including biking, hiking, wine and cheese parties, dinners, Sunday brunches, community theater, and concerts.\n\nThe organization has annual conventions where people from all over the U.S. and Canada gather. Conventions were held annually between 2002 and 2006. So far, conventions have been held in Las Vegas, New Orleans, Seattle, Philadelphia and Toronto. In 2010, the convention was in Houston.\n\nThe group's founder, as well as representatives of various No Kidding! chapters, have made numerous appearances in international media, as well as in local newspapers, radio shows and TV programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "39872705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39872705", "title": "On Religion", "text": "On Religion\n\nOn Religion: Speeches to its Cultured Despisers (German: \"Über die Religion: Reden an die Gebildeten unter ihren Verächtern\") is a book written by the German theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768-1834). Originally published in 1799, two further editions were released in Schleiermacher's lifetime in 1806 and 1831.\n\nSince the early age of 15, Schleiermacher had been personally grappling with the most significant issues of Christology, particularly his own doubt in regard to the problem of atonement. He entered a Moravian seminary in Barby, Germany in 1785, only to lead to his eventual expulsion for engaging in heretical philosophic discourse. He left for the University of Halle and completed his first theological examination some five years later. Following his graduation, Schleiermacher took up a teaching post in Berlin in 1793 and joined the Charity Hospital in 1796 as a regular preacher.\n\nSchleiermacher was writing around the time the Enlightenment was in full swing and arguably when the first major transition into modernity was simultaneously occurring. With the fall of the late Middle Ages and a vigorous discourse taking hold of Western European intellectuals, the fields of art and natural philosophy were flourishing. However, the discourse of theologians, arguably the primary and only discourse of intellectuals for centuries, had taken to its own now minor corner in the universities. This backdrop is evident in the first line of Schleiermacher's text, \"It may be an unexpected and even a marvelous undertaking, that any one should still venture to demand from the very class that have raised themselves above the vulgar, and are saturated with the wisdom of the centuries, attention for a subject so entirely neglected by them. ... Now especially the life of cultivated people is far from anything that might have even a resemblance to religion.\"\n\n\"On Religion\" is divided into five major sections: the Defense (\"Apologie\"), the Nature of Religion (\"Über das Wesen der Religion\"), the Cultivation of Religion (\"Über die Bildung zur Religion\"), Association in Religion (\"Über das Gesellige in der Religion, oder über Kirche und Priesterthum\"), and the Religions (\"Über die Religionen\").\n\nThe Defense (\"Apologie\") characterizes the four following speeches by Schleiermacher laying out of his anthropology of religion. He states, \"[T]here are two points of view from which everything taking place in man or proceeding from him may be regarded. Considered from the centre outwards, that is according to its inner quality, it is an expression of human nature, based in one of its necessary modes of acting or impulses ... [R]egarded from the outside, according to the definite attitude and form it assumes in particular cases, it is a product of time and history.\"\n\nSchleiermacher is perhaps best known outside of Germany for being the \"father of modern Protestant theology\", focusing his attention not on the institutional values of Christianity but on the nature of religious experience from the perspective of the individual and human nature itself, a product most of the prevalence of German Romanticism. The phrase \"cultured despisers\" has also seen reuse in scholarship since the authorship of \"On Religion\" in the late nineteenth century.\n\n"}
{"id": "40592783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40592783", "title": "Otto Pöggeler", "text": "Otto Pöggeler\n\nOtto Pöggeler (12 December 1928 in Attendorn – 10 December 2014) was a German philosopher. He specialized in phenomenology and commenting on Heidegger. In 1963 he authored the acclaimed \"Martin Heidegger’s Path of Thinking\", one of the first rigorous attempts at tracing the development of Heidegger’s thought. He also published a study of poetry of Paul Celan, and was director of the Hegel Archive at the Ruhr University in Bochum.\n\n"}
{"id": "15652031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15652031", "title": "Platonic Academy (Florence)", "text": "Platonic Academy (Florence)\n\nThe Platonic Academy (also known as the Neoplatonic Florentine Academy) was a 15th-century discussion group in Florence, Italy.\n\nThe Neoplatonic Florentine Academy was founded after Gemistus Pletho reintroduced Plato's thoughts to Western Europe during the 1438–39 Council of Florence. It was sponsored by Cosimo de' Medici, led by Marsilio Ficino and supported by Medici until death of Lorenzo Medici. It was never a formal group but the members considered themselves a modern form of Plato's Academy. Important members were Poliziano, Cristoforo Landino, Pico della Mirandola, and Gentile de' Becchi. The academy would proceed to translate into Latin all of Plato's works, the Enneads of Plotinus, and various other Neoplatonic works.\n\nPico della Mirandola became the first Christian scholar to master the Jewish mystical theology of Kabbalah. He attempted to develop a form of syncretism whereby different systems of thought could be harmonized based on shared elements of truth. Pico asserted that even though Platonism and Christianity had different views, they held some truths in common.\nAn important aspect of Pico’s philosophical thought was his defense of the dignity and liberty of the human being, set forth in On the Dignity of Man (1486). Both Ficino and Pico resurrected the humanistic views of ancient Greece. However, the humanism of the Renaissance was more individualistic than the humanism of ancient times.\n\nThe biographer John Addington Symonds speculates that Michelangelo Buonarroti spent time among the members of the Platonic Academy during Buonarroti's early years in Florence, fully absorbing its doctrines and later authoring poems and other works demonstrating agreement with their doctrines.\n\nPlatonic Academy was in fact dissolved soon after death of Lorenzo Medici in 1492. Poliziano and Mirandola died under very mysterious circumstances in 1494. In 2007, the bodies of Poliziano and Pico della Mirandola were exhumed from St. Mark's Basilica in Florence. Scientists under the supervision of Giorgio Gruppioni, a professor of anthropology from Bologna, will use current testing techniques to study the men's lives and establish the causes of their deaths. A TV documentary is being made of this research,\nand it was recently announced that these forensic tests showed that both Poliziano and Pico likely died of arsenic poisoning, probably at the order of Lorenzo's successor, Piero de' Medici.\n\n"}
{"id": "43407514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43407514", "title": "Portrait of Jeanne Kéfer", "text": "Portrait of Jeanne Kéfer\n\nPortrait of Jeanne Kéfer is a portrait by Fernand Khnopff, painted in 1885. Currently housed and exhibited in The J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles.\n\nA five-year-old Jeanne Kéfer was a daughter of the artist's friend, pianist Gustave Kéfer. The painting had been scheduled to be showcased at Les XX, 1885, in Brussels, but Khnopff had not managed to finish it, and the exhibition took place in 1886. The painting received positive critic reviews.\n\nJeanne Kéfer is depicted standing on a porch before a closed door with her thumb catching the edge of her bow as she reaches into her coat. The portrait symbolizes the child's vulnerability and uncertainty in facing the outside world. The message is emphasized by the composition itself as the Jeanne's body is framed against the adult-sized door.\n\n"}
{"id": "14026585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14026585", "title": "Publius Egnatius Celer", "text": "Publius Egnatius Celer\n\nPublius Egnatius Celer, (lived c. AD 60), was a Stoic philosopher, who as a result of being a \"delator\", or informer, in the reign of Nero, was sentenced to death in the reign of Vespasian.\n\nWhen treason charges were brought against Barea Soranus in 66, because he had incurred the hatred of Nero, Egnatius Celer, who had formerly been a client and the teacher of Barea Soranus, stood as chief witness against him. Barea Soranus was condemned to death together with his daughter Servilia.\n\nEgnatius received great rewards from Nero, but was afterwards accused by Musonius Rufus, another Stoic philosopher, under Vespasian, and fell out from favor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "667941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=667941", "title": "Racial equality", "text": "Racial equality\n\nRacial equality occurs when institutions give equal opportunity to people of all races. In other words, institutions ignore persons' racial physical traits or skin color, and give everyone legally, morally, and politically equal opportunity. In Western society today, there is more diversity and more integration among races. Initially, attaining equality has been difficult for African, Asian, and Latino people, especially in schools. However, in the United States, racial equality, has become a law that regardless of what race an individual is, they will receive equal treatment, opportunity, education, employment, and politics.\n\nSlavery was the key to the start of the bloodiest and most traumatic war in America's history. The American Civil War was fought from 1861 to 1865. By 1860 one in three persons in the Southern States belonged to another, in a population of twelve million, four million were slaves. In September 1862 Lincoln issued his Emancipation Proclamation, which avowed the aim of freeing the slaves in the Confederacy, and made abolition one of the North's central war aims. The North took the victory. Did the end of the war represent a gain or a loss for the country? The war represents a defeat for freedom simply to be let alone, for the beneficiaries of inherited wealth or those who prefer to live on the margins of society, but a victory for those, like the immigrants from Europe and the newly emancipated blacks, who needed government to provide the necessary conditions for the pursuit of happiness.\n\nFour million slaves were freed by the result of the American Civil War. In a few years later the South's elite white was in control again. Economic power was the main reason. Deprived of control over the means of earning a living, the blacks were forced into dependence on white landowners. The blacks worked as farm laborers, or as tenants under the sharecropping system. The biggest problem was the blacks were at the mercy of their white bosses, who would tell them how to vote. Segregations of schools, healthcare and housing became entrenched in the South and the black was relegated to the status of second-class citizen.\n\nThe health of many residents differed depended on areas of living. The poor inner-cities did not or lack the necessary health care that was available in outside areas. Many of the inner-city's location was the main cause for this problem. They were isolated from other parts of society which was a large contributor to the poor health of these residents. Also, the overcrowded living conditions added to the poor health of the residents by the spread of infectious diseases.\n\nMartin Luther King Jr. is better known as a civil rights leader in the United States concerning racial equality. Martin Luther King Jr. became one of the greatest leaders due to his stance concerning various mistreated African-American men and women in the South. Moreover, he played many roles in society and won an award for the movement he conducted. Martin Luther King Jr. not only took part in the Montgomery bus boycott, became a key speaker at the March on Washington, and was one of the youngest individuals to win the Nobel Peace Prize, but he also handled his opinion in a peaceful manner. King kept his anger toward the idea of segregation of race to himself; however, he did show his passion of equality in his speeches and peaceful protest.\n\nKing displayed his very first civil rights movement by voluntarily taking a stance in the Montgomery bus boycott. The bus boycott had started by Rosa Parks refusing to give up her seat for a white male after a long and tiring day at work. Thus, after Park's arrest, King gathered the black community. in hopes for boycotting against the bus, by cutting the use of transportation. This boycott continued on for 382 days. Although, King had to overcome many attacks towards him such as arrest, and violent harassment, the result was their (African-Americans) first victory: black men and women were allowed to ride the buses in Montgomery equally as the whites.\n\nRosa Parks was born on February 4, 1913 in Montgomery, Alabama. She attended the all-black Alabama State College, and soon worked at National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) as a secretary. Rosa Parks had become an activists by an event that triggered other events to occur. On December 1, 1955 Parks had taken the bus home from work, when all of a sudden she was being forced to give up her seat for a white male. Rosa Parks had been frustrated of the way black individuals were treated; thus, she refused and was arrested and fined $14.\n\nParks' refusal and arrest had caused a dilemma for white individuals, especially for the ones that owned the bus business. The Montgomery bus boycott had started to desegregate public transportation. Moreover, Martin Luther King Jr. had gotten involved to not only motivate the mistreated African-American population, but to share his passion of equality. This boycott lasted 382 days and ended on December 21, 1956. At the end of the bus boycott, both Rosa Parks and Martin Luther King Jr. had become national heroes. Furthermore, the Supreme Court passed a law which declared it unconstitutional to segregate on Montgomery buses.\n\nMartin Luther King Jr. was the founder of SCLC, by having summoned various numbers of black leaders in 1957. He became the President of this activist group and decided to improve communities by managing peaceful protests and boycotts regarding the social ethics of discrimination and segregation between races.\n\nFirst created on February 12, 1909 in Springfield, Illinois. This group was against violence that was directed towards African Americans. There objective was to eliminate racial inequality, and guarantee the political, educational, social and economic equality for citizens. Their office was located in New York. Moorfield Storey was named president, while, Du Bois, was the only African American Director of Publications.\n\nThere was a civil rights group called Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) that came together to fight corruption and segregation in a nonviolent manner. CORE grew profoundly after the 1950s, beginning with James Farmer who later became the leader of the group and a civil rights activist in 1941. He went back to his \"Native South\" and visited to a local movie theater, where he came upon the \"crow's nest\", an area that was reserved for blacks. He opposed the Jim Crow laws. He realized that his friends and himself supported those laws by what they did in their daily actions. He soon wrote a memo and summoned for the formation of a group of individuals that were powerful from mind and body to be able to take personal nonviolent actions to end discrimination.\n\nCORE was established in 1942 in Chicago. It was a branch of a \"Peace-Lover\" organization, which was called the Fellowship of Reconciliation (FOR). CORE used nonviolent actions procedures that involved sit-ins, which were done in lunch counters in Chicago. By 1947, CORE contributed with an interracial bus ride across the upper part of the South. They were testing state buses that the U.S Supreme Court ordered to be desegregated, which was the \"Morgan v. Virginia\" decision in 1946. This led to some success for the facilities that were testing out the orders they were given, but it didn't grab much attention especially in the national level, which was their main goal. By 1960, there was a new wave of nonviolent direct action protests that initiated through the student sit-in movement. CORE's national director James Farmer repeated the Journey of Reconciliation. Another Supreme Court ruling, \"Boynton v. Virginia\" (1960), ordered a stop to segregation in the interstate bus terminals. That came to be the Freedom Rides. The Freedom Riders traveled deep into the south and were attacked by segregationists along Alabama.\n\nCORE began in the North and was mainly concentrated in public areas. About two decades ago, the North had segregated spots where blacks were not allowed. Those places, for example, were restaurants, bowling alleys, skating rinks, and barber shops. More successful efforts were the work settings where there were some experiments with interracial workers and in housing co-operatives. CORE's main focus was to increase public recognition in the north. In the late 1940s and early 1950s, CORE moved to the border states of Missouri, Maryland, and Oklahoma.\n\nIn the first few weeks of April the two groups CORE and NAACP combined forces to make a change in racial equality. Both the groups protesters constructed a plan to shut down construction of the city's Municipal Services Building, by marching in front of Mayor James Tate's North Philadelphia row house. Furthermore, many protesters had engaged in various fights involving police and white unionists. Moreover, the two groups had caused many debates to open up regarding racial politics, discrimination, and employment.\n\nCORE's technique was always nonviolence as the method of fighting racial injustice. CORE was the first organization to use nonviolent actions in order to stop many issues that affected the black community. The student sit-ins started in February 1960. Within the year, 130 eating locations opened up in the southern communities. They were interested in how CORE approached the issue of segregation.\n\nCORE grew in the early 1940s, but continued to be composed of small groups. They persisted in being small because of the students who were part of the organization. The students would graduate and move away. Also, others were fighting for a specific cause and once the issue has been dealt with, they disappeared. CORE was only a voluntary organization; there was no paid staff.\n\nIn the South:\n\nIn the North:\n\nMany outsiders started to notice the efforts of the group. They supported them and started the Freedom Rides. CORE was more involved in the Black Power movement around the mid-1960s. Then things shifted to integration and nonviolent actions toward the organization of communities, the separation of the people, and Black Power. Also, as whites and blacks started to work together to fight over the dilemmas of segregation, white liberals weren't fond of the idea that they were working together. CORE's issues changed over time, so they worked on different actions that would come up.\n\nSit-ins, the oldest technique, have been used by CORE the most. CORE divided people into three different groups: one with all black individuals, one with all whites, and one that was interracial. These three different groups would go to a segregated eating area before the busiest hour and wait to be attended quietly. This was used to open up restaurants, and was later used for other locations.\n\nThis was used at cafeterias, ticket booths, and other places where one stands in a line in order to be served. If someone is refused, the CORE members who might be in line before him/her will also refuse to step out of line and interrupt service. CORE did this at movie theaters in Kentucky, and at a swimming pool at Palisades Amusement Park in New Jersey. This technique was also important for stopping segregation.\n\nSince 1942, two particular issues have evolved in racial equality. One is the handling of blacks to ensure equality, which was favored by the white community, and the other is the differences between southerners and non-southerners. These two issues were observed by the National Opinion Research Center (NORC). They made questions that plotted five main topics that targeted blacks at the time. The five points that affected racial equality and tracked during the years 1965–1980 were \"year, region, cohort, and education\". Many educational systems in the south and non-southern areas were in favor of segregated educational institutions among blacks. They also didn't want blacks near their neighborhood or interracial marriages to happen.\n\nThe abolishment of slavery in all states. \n\nAllowed citizenship to individuals that were born in the United States such as Native Americans and African Americans. It also stops any other state to pass their own law which will violate this amendment. It prohibits states from opposing any person's \"life, liberty or property, without law coming forward on the individual\" or to \"deny to any person within its authority the equal protection of the laws.\"\n\nAllowed African Americans to vote.\n\nGranted citizenship to individuals without discriminating or viewing race, color, or the previous act of being a slave. \n\nIn Southern States, a law that enforced a separation of blacks and whites from public facilities such as employment, housing, education, politics, military service, sports, and business. In other words, a separate but equal rank was given to the African Americans; also, it was not violating any laws that the government had made of the United States. \n\n"}
{"id": "51398750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51398750", "title": "Spirits of Heaven and Ways of Heaven &amp; Earth", "text": "Spirits of Heaven and Ways of Heaven &amp; Earth\n\nSpirits Of Heaven and Ways of Heaven & Earth: Shamanistic Beliefs and Origins of Chinese Traditional Thoughts is a book by a Taiwanese history professor Olga Gorodetskaya, published in 2016 in Shanghai, China. The book is a treatise on early Chinese religious and philosophical beliefs.\n"}
{"id": "24538180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24538180", "title": "Superficial charm", "text": "Superficial charm\n\nSuperficial charm (or insincere charm or glib charm) is the tendency to be smooth, engaging, charming, slick and verbally facile.\n\nThe phrase often appears in lists of attributes of psychopathic personalities, such as in Hervey M. Cleckley's \"The Mask of Sanity\", and Robert D. Hare's Hare Psychopathy Checklist.\n\nAssociated expressions are \"charm offensive\", \"turning on the charm\" and \"superficial smile\".\n\nClassical rhetoric had early singled out the critical category of the superficial charmer, whose merit was purely verbal, without underlying substance.\n\nContemporary interest in superficial charm goes back to Hervey M. Cleckley's classic study (1941) of the sociopath: since his work it has become widely accepted that the sociopath/psychopath was characterised by superficial charm and a disregard for other people's feelings. According to Hare, \"Psychopathic charm is not in the least shy, self-conscious, or afraid to say anything.\" \n\nSubsequent studies have refined, but not perhaps fundamentally altered, Cleckley's initial assessment. In the latest diagnostic review, Cleckley's mix of intelligence and superficial charm has been redefined to reflect a more deviant demeanour, talkative, slick, and insincere. A distinction can also be drawn between a subtle, self-effacing kind of sociopathic charm, and a more expansive, exhilarating spontaneity which serves to give the sociopath a sort of animal magnetism.\n\nThe authors of the book describe a five phase model of how a typical workplace psychopath climbs to and maintains power. In phase one (entry), the psychopath will use highly developed social skills and charm to obtain employment by an organisation. Corporate psychopaths within organizations may be singled out for rapid promotion because of their polish, charm, and cool decisiveness. Their superficial charm may be misinterpreted as charisma.\n\nThe term also occurs in Hotchkiss' discussion of narcissists: \"Their superficial charm can be enchanting.\" For such figures, however, there is no substance behind the romantic gestures, which only serve to feed the narcissist's own ego. \n\nNarcissists are known as manipulative in a charming way, entrapping their victims through a façade of understanding into suspending their self-protective behaviour and lowering their personal boundaries. Closely related is the way impostors are able to make people fall in love with them to satisfy their narcissistic needs, without reciprocating in any real sense or returning their feelings.\n\nSocial chameleons have been described as adept in social intelligence, able to make a charming good impression, yet at the price of their own true motivations. Their ability to manage impressions well often leads to success in areas like the theatre, salesmanship, or politics and diplomacy. But when lacking a sense of their own inner needs, such superficial extraverts may end up (despite their charm) as rootless chameleons, endlessly taking their social cues from other people.\n\nSimilarly, for the histrionic personality, the attention seeking through superficial charm may only reinforce the splitting of the real self from the public presentation in a vicious circle.\n\nSuperficial charmers, in their more benign manifestations, can produce a variety of positive results, their conversational skills providing light-hearted entertainment in social settings through their ability to please.\n\nA \"charm offensive\" is a related concept meaning a publicity campaign, usually by politicians, that attempts to attract supporters by emphasizing their charisma or trustworthiness. The first recorded use of the expression is in the California newspaper \"The Fresno Bee Republican\" in October 1956.\n\nF. Scott Fitzgerald explored the destructive consequences of excess charm in stories like \"Magnetism\", maintaining that charm, for those who had it, had a life of its own, demanding constant use to keep it in peak condition.\n\nCritics object that there are few objective criteria whereby to distinguish superficial from genuine charm; and that as part of the conventional niceties of politeness, we all regularly employ superficial charm in everyday life: conveying superficial solidarity and fictitious benevolence to all social interactions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3783189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3783189", "title": "The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere", "text": "The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\n\nThe Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere: An Inquiry into a Category of Bourgeois Society () is a 1962 book by the philosopher Jürgen Habermas. It was translated into English in 1989 by Thomas Burger and Frederick Lawrence. An important contribution to modern understanding of democracy, it is notable for \"transforming media studies into a hard-headed discipline.\"\n\nThe notion of the \"public sphere\" began evolving during the Renaissance in Western Europe. Brought on partially by merchants' need for accurate information about distant markets as well as by the growth of democracy and individual liberty and popular sovereignty, the \"public sphere\" was a place between private individuals and government authorities in which people could meet and have critical debates about public matters. Such discussions served as a counterweight to political authority and happened physically in face-to-face meetings in coffee houses and cafes and public squares as well as in the media in letters, books, drama, and art. Habermas saw a vibrant public sphere as a positive force keeping authorities within bounds lest their rulings be ridiculed. According to David Randall, \"In Habermasian theory, the bourgeois public sphere was preceded by a literary public sphere whose favored genres revealed the interiority of the self and emphasized an audience-oriented subjectivity.\"\n\n\"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\" was Habermas's first major work. It also satisfied the rigorous requirements for a professorship in Germany; in this system, independent scholarly research, usually resulting in a published book, must be submitted, and defended before an academic committee; this process is known as \"Habilitationsschrift\" or \"habilitation\". The work was overseen by the political scientist Wolfgang Abendroth, to whom Habermas dedicated it.\n\nHabermas describes the development of a bourgeois public sphere in the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries as well as its subsequent decline.\n\nThe first transition occurred in England, France, the United States, and Germany over the course of 150 years or so from the late seventeenth century. England led the way in the early eighteenth century, with Germany following in the late eighteenth century. Habermas tries to explain the growth and decline of the public sphere by relating political, social, cultural and philosophical developments to each other in a multi-disciplinary approach. Initially, there were monarchical and feudal societies which made no distinction between state and society or between public and private, and which had organized themselves politically around symbolic representation and status. These feudal societies were transformed into a bourgeois liberal constitutional order which distinguished between the public and private realms; further, within the private realm, there was a bourgeois public sphere for rational-critical political debate which formed a new phenomenon called public opinion. Spearheading this shift was the growth of a literary public sphere in which the bourgeoisie learned to critically reflect upon itself and its role in society. This first major shift occurred alongside the rise of early non-industrial capitalism and the philosophical articulation of political liberalism by such thinkers as Hobbes, Locke, Montesquieu (See: \"The Spirit of the Laws\"), Rousseau, and then Kant. The bourgeois public sphere flourished within the early laissez-faire, free-market, largely pre-industrial capitalist order of liberalism from the late eighteenth century to the mid-nineteenth century.\n\nThe second part of Habermas' account traces the transition from the liberal bourgeois public sphere to the modern mass society of the social welfare state. Starting in the 1830s, extending from the late nineteenth century to the early twentieth century, a new constellation of social, cultural, political, and philosophical developments took shape. Hegel's critique of Kant's liberal philosophy anticipated the shift, according to Habermas, and this shift came to a philosophical head in Marx's astute diagnosis of the contradictions inherent in the liberal constitutional social order. Habermas saw the modified liberalism of Mill and Tocqueville with their ambivalence toward the public sphere as emblematic manifestations of these contradictions.\n\nParalleling this philosophical progression against classical liberalism were major socio-economic transformations based on industrialization, and the result was the rise of mass societies characterized by consumer capitalism in the twentieth century. Clear demarcations between public and private and between state and society became blurred. The bourgeois public sphere was transformed by the increasing re-integration and entwining of state and society that resulted in the modern social welfare state. This shift, according to Habermas, can be seen as part of a larger dialectic in which political changes were made in an attempt to save the liberal constitutional order, but had the ultimate effect of destroying the bourgeois public sphere. He highlights the pernicious effects of commercialization and consumerization on the public sphere through the rise of mass media, public relations, and consumer culture. He delineates how these developments thwarted rational-critical political debate, including political parties functioning in a way that bypassed the public sphere, undermining parliamentary politics.\n\nHabermas drew on the cultural critiques of critical theory from the Frankfurt School, which included important thinkers such as Theodor Adorno, who was one of his teachers at the Institute for Social Research from 1956 to 1959. Habermas began his habilitation during this period, but due to intellectual tensions with the Institute's director, philosopher and sociologist Max Horkheimer, he moved to the University of Marburg, where he completed the work under Wolfgang Abendroth.\n\n The book was reprinted many times in German and other languages, and has been enormously influential, especially since its translation into English, for scholars of political science, media studies, and rhetoric. It is also an important work for historians of philosophy and scholars of intellectual history. After publication, Habermas was identified as an important philosopher of the twentieth century.\n\nSince publication, the \"Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\" has been critiqued for Habermas’s formulation of the concept of a public sphere which he claimed \"stood or fell with the principle of universal access ... A public sphere from which specific groups would be \"eo ipso\" excluded was less than merely incomplete; it was not a public sphere at all.\" (Habermas 1962:85) However, the bourgeois public sphere required as preconditions of entry an excellent education and property ownership – which correlated to membership of the upper classes. Critics have argued that the bourgeois public sphere cannot be considered an ideal form of politics, since the public sphere was limited to upper-class strata of society and did not represent most of the citizens in these emerging nation-states.\n\nSome critics claim the public sphere, as such, never existed, or existed only in the sense of excluding many important groups, such as the poor, women, slaves, migrants, and criminals. They maintain that the public sphere remains an idealized conception, little changed since Kant, since the ideal is still to a great extent what Habermas might call an unfinished project of modernity. (Cubitt 2005:93)\n\nSimilar critiques regarding the exclusivity of the bourgeois public sphere have been made by feminist and post-colonial authors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14010653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14010653", "title": "Tomonobu Imamichi", "text": "Tomonobu Imamichi\n\nImamichi taught in Europe (Paris and Germany) as well as in Japan (he was also emeritus professor of the University of Palermo). Beginning in 1979 he was the president of the \"Centre International pour l'Étude Comparée de Philosophie et d'Esthétique\" and after 1997 of the International Institute of Philosophy. In 1976 he founded the journal \"Aesthetics\".\n\nHe translated Aristotle's \"Poetics\" into Japanese (in 1972) and has written numerous books in Japanese. Imamichi was a supporter of communication between cultures. He characterizes Western philosophy as an attempt to achieve a God's eye view (\"das in-dem-Gott-sein\"; to be in the being of God) and Eastern philosophy as an attempt to be in the world (\"das in-der-Welt-sein\"). Imamichi sees in both stances two incomplete and complementary humanisms, and observes that since the publication of \"The Book of Tea\", some Western philosophers have adopted a more Eastern stance while other Eastern philosophers have attempted to reach the Absolute or the Eternal.\n\nTomonobu Imamichi was the father of guitarist and songwriter Tomotaka Imamichi, pianist Nobuko Kawaguchi, biologist Yukiko Imamichi and psychologist Tomoaki Imamichi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21778646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21778646", "title": "Vladimir Hütt", "text": "Vladimir Hütt\n\nVladimir Hütt (, Vladimir Platonivich Khyutt; 18 April 1936 in Leningrad – 4 June 1997) was an Estonian philosopher. He was born in Leningrad, Russia RFSR and move to Estonia after the annexation of Estonia by the USSR. Hütt, a physicist by education, mostly dealt with philosophy of physics, scientific world-view and the theory of cognition. His works followed the Marxist line of thought that was official in the USSR. Most of Hütt's works were published in Russian. In 1979 Hütt published a monographic overview entitled \"Philosophical Problems of Physics in Soviet Estonia in 30 Years 1948–1978\", where he expounded his philosophical ideas about the complementarity and objectivity in physical knowledge. In 1980s, he worked at the Obninsk State Technical University for Nuclear Power Engineering as the head of the chair of social sciences and philosophy. During the Perestroika era, he remained a committed communist, supporting the pro-Soviet Intermovement after its founding in the late 1980s.\n\n"}
{"id": "58556471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58556471", "title": "W. D. Hudson", "text": "W. D. Hudson\n\nWilliam Donald Hudson, who published as W. D. Hudson (1920-2003) was an English Baptist minister and philosopher. He wrote on ethics, philosophy of religion, and the philosophy of Wittgenstein.\n"}
{"id": "1904171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1904171", "title": "Walter Johannes Stein", "text": "Walter Johannes Stein\n\nWalter Johannes Stein (6 February 1891, in Vienna – 7 July 1957, in London) was an Austrian philosopher, Waldorf school teacher, Grail researcher, and one of the pioneers of anthroposophy.\n\nOf Jewish descent, Stein studied mathematics, physics, and philosophy at Vienna University, before completing a doctorate in philosophy at the end of the First World War, having continued work on it throughout his service in an artillery unit in the war. He became a personal student of Rudolf Steiner from about the age of 21, and enjoyed the unofficial supervision of Steiner while writing his dissertation. Broadly speaking, the dissertation was an attempt to write a theory of cognition for spiritual knowledge.\n\nAfter the First World War, Stein assisted Steiner in promoting Social Threefolding. When it became apparent in 1919 that these efforts were not going to succeed, Steiner asked Stein to teach history and German literature at the first Waldorf School in Stuttgart. It was as part of this work that Stein began his research on the Grail, which culminated in 1928 with his book \"The Ninth Century and the Holy Grail\". In this work, he attempted to identify historical people and events represented in the Grail epic and to interpret \"Parzival\" as an esoteric document representing the human path of inner development. Stein also wrote various articles on these themes.\n\nStein lectured extensively on anthroposophy and related themes from the early 1920s onward, giving up to 300 lectures a year. He also contributed many articles to \"The Present Age\" and similar periodicals, and wrote a number of short books including \"The Principle of Reincarnation\", \"Gold: in History and in Modern Times\", \"West-East: A Study in National Relationships\", \"Labour: in History and in Modern Times\", and \"The British: Their Psychology and Destiny\". Stein claimed to have had a spiritual breakthrough in 1924 using the meditative methods of Steiner and to have attained some insight into his own karmic background.\n\nStein moved to London in 1933, at the invitation of the theosophist-turned-anthroposophist Daniel Nicol Dunlop. Dunlop was director of the British Electrical and Allied Manufacturers' Association (BEAMA), and chairman of the executive council of the World Power Conference. Dunlop had called Stein to London to take up a post in research for the World Power Conference; he had apparently founded the World Power Conference as a precursor to a World Economic Conference, and he had called Stein to London to assist him especially with this latter, more ambitious, project. Dunlop died in 1935 before this plan could be brought to fruition, but Stein did bring about Dunlop's wish for an independent cultural journal in the form of \"The Present Age\". Stein, having taken up various studies in economics, geography, and geology for his collaborative work with Dunlop, was able to bring together the results of this work in a special issue of the journal under the title \"The Earth as a Basis of World Economy\". The publication of the journal ceased with the start of the Second World War.\n\nDuring and after the Second World War Stein made many connections in government circles in Britain, as well as with the Dutch and Belgian royal families. \n\nStein is one of the chief characters in Trevor Ravenscroft's books \"The Spear of Destiny\" and \"The Cup of Destiny\". Though Ravenscroft claimed that he had been a pupil of Stein's, investigative reporter Eric Wynants discovered the Stein/Ravenscroft connection was a complete fabrication while interviewing Ravenscroft for an article in 1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "33130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33130", "title": "Werner Heisenberg", "text": "Werner Heisenberg\n\nWerner Karl Heisenberg (; ; 5 December 1901 – 1 February 1976) was a German theoretical physicist and one of the key pioneers of quantum mechanics. He published his work in 1925 in a breakthrough paper. In the subsequent series of papers with Max Born and Pascual Jordan, during the same year, this matrix formulation of quantum mechanics was substantially elaborated. He is known for the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, which he published in 1927. Heisenberg was awarded the 1932 Nobel Prize in Physics \"for the creation of quantum mechanics\".\n\nHe also made important contributions to the theories of the hydrodynamics of turbulent flows, the atomic nucleus, ferromagnetism, cosmic rays, and subatomic particles, and he was instrumental in planning the first West German nuclear reactor at Karlsruhe, together with a research reactor in Munich, in 1957. He was a principal scientist in the Nazi German nuclear weapon project during World War II. He travelled to occupied Copenhagen where he met and discussed the German project with Niels Bohr.\n\nFollowing World War II, he was appointed director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physics, which soon thereafter was renamed the Max Planck Institute for Physics. He was director of the institute until it was moved to Munich in 1958, when it was expanded and renamed the Max Planck Institute for Physics and Astrophysics.\n\nHeisenberg was also president of the German Research Council, chairman of the Commission for Atomic Physics, chairman of the Nuclear Physics Working Group, and president of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation.\n\nWerner Karl Heisenberg was born in Würzburg, Germany, to , a secondary school teacher of classical languages who became Germany's only \"ordentlicher Professor\" (ordinarius professor) of medieval and modern Greek studies in the university system, and his wife, Annie Wecklein.\nHe studied physics and mathematics from 1920 to 1923 at the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich and the Georg-August University of Göttingen. At Munich, he studied under Arnold Sommerfeld and Wilhelm Wien. At Göttingen, he studied physics with Max Born and James Franck and mathematics with David Hilbert. He received his doctorate in 1923, at Munich under Sommerfeld. He completed his Habilitation in 1924, at Göttingen under Born.\n\nBecause Sommerfeld had a sincere interest in his students and knew of Heisenberg's interest in Niels Bohr's theories on atomic physics, Sommerfeld took Heisenberg to Göttingen to the Bohr Festival of June 1922. At the event, Bohr was a guest lecturer and gave a series of comprehensive lectures on quantum atomic physics. There, Heisenberg met Bohr for the first time, and it had a significant and continuing effect on him.\n\nHeisenberg's doctoral thesis, the topic of which was suggested by Sommerfeld, was on turbulence; the thesis discussed both the stability of laminar flow and the nature of turbulent flow. The problem of stability was investigated by the use of the Orr–Sommerfeld equation, a fourth order linear differential equation for small disturbances from laminar flow. He briefly returned to this topic after World War II.\n\nHeisenberg's paper on the anomalous Zeeman effect was accepted as his \"Habilitationsschrift\" (Habilitation thesis) under Max Born at Göttingen.\n\nIn his youth he was a member and Scoutleader of the \"Neupfadfinder\", a German Scout association and part of the German Youth Movement. In August 1923 Robert Honsell and Heisenberg organized a trip (\"Großfahrt\") to Finland with a Scout group of this association from Munich.\n\nHeisenberg arrived at Munich in 1919 as a member of Freikorps to fight the Bavarian Soviet Republic established a year earlier. Five decades later he recalled those days as youthful fun, like \"playing cops and robbers and so on; it was nothing serious at all.\"\n\nFrom 1924 to 1927, Heisenberg was a Privatdozent at Göttingen. From 17 September 1924 to 1 May 1925, under an International Education Board Rockefeller Foundation fellowship, Heisenberg went to do research with Niels Bohr, director of the Institute of Theoretical Physics at the University of Copenhagen. His seminal paper, \"Über quantentheoretischer Umdeutung\" was published in September 1925. He returned to Göttingen and with Max Born and Pascual Jordan, over a period of about six months, developed the matrix mechanics formulation of quantum mechanics. On 1 May 1926, Heisenberg began his appointment as a university lecturer and assistant to Bohr in Copenhagen. It was in Copenhagen, in 1927, that Heisenberg developed his uncertainty principle, while working on the mathematical foundations of quantum mechanics. On 23 February, Heisenberg wrote a letter to fellow physicist Wolfgang Pauli, in which he first described his new principle. In his paper on the uncertainty principle, Heisenberg used the word \"Ungenauigkeit\" (imprecision).\n\nIn 1927, Heisenberg was appointed \"ordentlicher Professor\" (professor ordinarius) of theoretical physics and head of the department of physics at the University of Leipzig; he gave his inaugural lecture there on 1 February 1928. In his first paper published from Leipzig, Heisenberg used the Pauli exclusion principle to solve the mystery of ferromagnetism.\n\nDuring Heisenberg's tenure at Leipzig, the high quality of the doctoral students and post-graduate and research associates who studied and worked with him there is clear from the acclaim many later earned. At various times they included Erich Bagge, Felix Bloch, Ugo Fano, Siegfried Flügge, William Vermillion Houston, Friedrich Hund, Robert S. Mulliken, Rudolf Peierls, George Placzek, Isidor Isaac Rabi, Fritz Sauter, John C. Slater, Edward Teller, John Hasbrouck van Vleck, Victor Frederick Weisskopf, Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker, Gregor Wentzel, and Clarence Zener.\n\nIn early 1929, Heisenberg and Pauli submitted the first of two papers laying the foundation for relativistic quantum field theory. Also in 1929, Heisenberg went on a lecture tour of China, Japan, India, and the United States. In the spring of 1929, he was a visiting lecturer at the University of Chicago, where he lectured on quantum mechanics.\n\nIn 1928, the British mathematical physicist P. A. M. Dirac had derived the relativistic wave equation of quantum mechanics, which implied the existence of positive electrons, later to be named positrons. In 1932, from a cloud chamber photograph of cosmic rays, the American physicist Carl David Anderson identified a track as having been made by a positron. In mid-1933, Heisenberg presented his theory of the positron. His thinking on Dirac's theory and further development of the theory were set forth in two papers. The first, \"Bemerkungen zur Diracschen Theorie des Positrons (Remarks on Dirac's theory of the positron)\" was published in 1934, and the second, \"Folgerungen aus der Diracschen Theorie des Positrons (Consequences of Dirac's Theory of the Positron)\", was published in 1936. In these papers Heisenberg was the first to reinterpret the Dirac equation as a \"classical\" field equation for any point particle of spin ħ/2, itself subject to quantization conditions involving anti-commutators. Thus reinterpreting it as a (quantum) field equation accurately describing electrons, Heisenberg put matter on the same footing as electromagnetism: as being described by relativistic quantum field equations which allowed the possibility of particle creation and destruction. (Hermann Weyl had already described this in a 1929 letter to Einstein.)\n\nHeisenberg's paper establishing quantum mechanics has puzzled physicists and historians. His methods assume that the reader is familiar with Kramers-Heisenberg transition probability calculations. The main new idea, noncommuting matrices, is justified only by a rejection of unobservable quantities. It introduces the non-commutative multiplication of matrices by physical reasoning, based on the correspondence principle, despite the fact that Heisenberg was not then familiar with the mathematical theory of matrices. The path leading to these results has been reconstructed in MacKinnon, 1977, and the detailed calculations are worked out in Aitchison et al.\n\nIn Copenhagen, Heisenberg and Hans Kramers collaborated on a paper on dispersion, or the scattering from atoms of radiation whose wavelength is larger than the atoms. They showed that the successful formula Kramers had developed earlier could not be based on Bohr orbits, because the transition frequencies are based on level spacings which are not constant. The frequencies which occur in the Fourier transform of sharp classical orbits, by contrast, are equally spaced. But these results could be explained by a semi-classical virtual state model: the incoming radiation excites the valence, or outer, electron to a virtual state from which it decays. In a subsequent paper Heisenberg showed that this virtual oscillator model could also explain the polarization of fluorescent radiation.\n\nThese two successes, and the continuing failure of the Bohr-Sommerfeld model to explain the outstanding problem of the anomalous Zeeman effect, led Heisenberg to use the virtual oscillator model to try to calculate spectral frequencies. The method proved too difficult to immediately apply to realistic problems, so Heisenberg turned to a simpler example, the anharmonic oscillator.\n\nThe dipole oscillator consists of a simple harmonic oscillator, which is thought of as a charged particle on a spring, perturbed by an external force, like an external charge. The motion of the oscillating charge can be expressed as a Fourier series in the frequency of the oscillator. Heisenberg solved for the quantum behavior by two different methods. First, he treated the system with the virtual oscillator method, calculating the transitions between the levels that would be produced by the external source.\n\nHe then solved the same problem by treating the anharmonic potential term as a perturbation to the harmonic oscillator and using the perturbation methods that he and Born had developed. Both methods led to the same results for the first and the very complicated second order correction terms. This suggested that behind the very complicated calculations lay a consistent scheme.\n\nSo Heisenberg set out to formulate these results without any explicit dependence on the virtual oscillator model. To do this, he replaced the Fourier expansions for the spatial coordinates by matrices, matrices which corresponded to the transition coefficients in the virtual oscillator method. He justified this replacement by an appeal to Bohr's correspondence principle and the Pauli doctrine that quantum mechanics must be limited to observables.\n\nOn 9 July, Heisenberg gave Born this paper to review and submit for publication. When Born read the paper, he recognized the formulation as one which could be transcribed and extended to the systematic language of matrices, which he had learned from his study under Jakob Rosanes at Breslau University. Born, with the help of his assistant and former student Pascual Jordan, began immediately to make the transcription and extension, and they submitted their results for publication; the paper was received for publication just 60 days after Heisenberg's paper. A follow-on paper was submitted for publication before the end of the year by all three authors.\n\nUp until this time, matrices were seldom used by physicists; they were considered to belong to the realm of pure mathematics. Gustav Mie had used them in a paper on electrodynamics in 1912 and Born had used them in his work on the lattice theory of crystals in 1921. While matrices were used in these cases, the algebra of matrices with their multiplication did not enter the picture as they did in the matrix formulation of quantum mechanics.\n\nIn 1928, Albert Einstein nominated Heisenberg, Born, and Jordan for the Nobel Prize in Physics, The announcement of the Nobel Prize in Physics for 1932 was delayed until November 1933. It was at that time that it was announced Heisenberg had won the Prize for 1932 \"for the creation of quantum mechanics, the application of which has, , led to the discovery of the allotropic forms of hydrogen\".\n\nShortly after the discovery of the neutron by James Chadwick in 1932, Heisenberg submitted the first of three papers on his neutron-proton model of the nucleus. After Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933, Heisenberg was attacked in the press as a \"White Jew\". Supporters of \"Deutsche Physik\" launched vicious attacks against leading theoretical physicists, including Arnold Sommerfeld and Heisenberg. From the early 1930s onward, the anti-Semitic and anti-theoretical physics movement \"Deutsche Physik\" had concerned itself with quantum mechanics and the theory of relativity. As applied in the university environment, political factors took priority over the historically applied concept of scholarly ability, even though its two most prominent supporters were the Nobel Laureates in Physics Philipp Lenard and Johannes Stark.\n\nThere had been many failed attempts to have Heisenberg appointed as professor at a variety of German universities. His attempt to be appointed as the successor to Arnold Sommerfeld failed because of opposition by the \"Deutsche Physik\" movement. On 1 April 1935, the eminent theoretical physicist Sommerfeld, Heisenberg's doctoral advisor at the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, achieved emeritus status. However, Sommerfeld stayed in his chair during the selection process for his successor, which took until 1 December 1939. The process was lengthy due to academic and political differences between the Munich Faculty's selection and that of the Reichserziehungsministerium (REM, Reich Education Ministry) and the supporters of \"Deutsche Physik\", which was anti-Semitic and had a bias against theoretical physics, especially quantum mechanics and the theory of relativity.\n\nIn 1935, the Munich Faculty drew up a list of candidates to replace Sommerfeld as ordinarius professor of theoretical physics and head of the Institute for Theoretical Physics at the University of Munich. The three candidates had all been former students of Sommerfeld: Heisenberg, who had received the Nobel Prize in Physics; Peter Debye, who had received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1936; and Richard Becker. The Munich Faculty was firmly behind these candidates, with Heisenberg as their first choice. However, supporters of \"Deutsche Physik\" and elements in the REM had their own list of candidates, and the battle dragged on for over four years. During this time, Heisenberg came under vicious attack by the \"Deutsche Physik\" supporters. One attack was published in \"Das Schwarze Korps\", the newspaper of the Schutzstaffel (SS), headed by Heinrich Himmler. In this, Heisenberg was called a \"White Jew\" (i.e. an Aryan who acts like a Jew) who should be made to \"disappear\". These attacks were taken seriously, as Jews were violently attacked and incarcerated. Heisenberg fought back with an editorial and a letter to Himmler, in an attempt to resolve this matter and regain his honour.\n\nAt one point, Heisenberg's mother visited Himmler's mother. The two women knew each other, as Heisenberg's maternal grandfather and Himmler's father were rectors and members of a Bavarian hiking club. Eventually, Himmler settled the Heisenberg affair by sending two letters, one to SS Gruppenführer Reinhard Heydrich and one to Heisenberg, both on 21 July 1938. In the letter to Heydrich, Himmler said Germany could not afford to lose or silence Heisenberg, as he would be useful for teaching a generation of scientists. To Heisenberg, Himmler said the letter came on recommendation of his family and he cautioned Heisenberg to make a distinction between professional physics research results and the personal and political attitudes of the involved scientists. \n\nWilhelm Müller replaced Sommerfeld at the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich. Müller was not a theoretical physicist, had not published in a physics journal, and was not a member of the Deutsche Physikalische Gesellschaft; his appointment was considered a travesty and detrimental to educating theoretical physicists.\n\nDuring the SS investigation of Heisenberg, the three investigators had training in physics. Heisenberg had participated in the doctoral examination of one of them at the Universität Leipzig. The most influential of the three was Johannes Juilfs. During their investigation, they had become supporters of Heisenberg as well as his position against the ideological policies of the \"Deutsche Physik\" movement in theoretical physics and academia.\n\nOn 29 June 1936, a Nazi Party newspaper published a column attacking Heisenberg. On 15 July 1937, he was attacked in a journal of the SS. In mid-1936, Heisenberg presented his theory of cosmic-ray showers in two papers. Four more papers appeared in the next two years. In December 1938, the German chemists Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann sent a manuscript to \"Naturwissenschaften\" reporting they had detected the element barium after bombarding uranium with neutrons and Otto Hahn concluded a \"bursting\" of the uranium nucleus; simultaneously, Hahn communicated these results to his friend Lise Meitner, who had in July of that year fled to the Netherlands and then went to Sweden. Meitner, and her nephew Otto Robert Frisch, correctly interpreted Hahn's and Strassmann's results as being nuclear fission. Frisch confirmed this experimentally on 13 January 1939.\n\nIn June 1939, Heisenberg bought a summer home for his family in Urfeld am Walchensee, in southern Germany. He also traveled to the United States in June and July, visiting Samuel Abraham Goudsmit, at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. However, Heisenberg refused an invitation to emigrate to the United States. He did not see Goudsmit again until six years later, when Goudsmit was the chief scientific advisor to the American Operation Alsos at the close of World War II.\n\nThe German nuclear weapons program, known as \"Uranverein\", was formed on 1 September 1939, the day World War II began. The \"Heereswaffenamt\" (HWA, Army Ordnance Office) had squeezed the \"Reichsforschungsrat\" (RFR, Reich Research Council) out of the \"Reichserziehungsministerium\" (REM, Reich Ministry of Education) and started the formal German nuclear energy project under military auspices. The project had its first meeting on 16 September 1939. The meeting was organized by Kurt Diebner, advisor to the HWA, and held in Berlin. The invitees included Walther Bothe, Siegfried Flügge, Hans Geiger, Otto Hahn, Paul Harteck, Gerhard Hoffmann, Josef Mattauch and Georg Stetter. A second meeting was held soon thereafter and included Heisenberg, Klaus Clusius, Robert Döpel and Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker. The \"Kaiser-Wilhelm Institut für Physik\" (KWIP, Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physics) in Berlin-Dahlem, was placed under HWA authority, with Diebner as the administrative director, and the military control of the nuclear research commenced. During the period Diebner administered the KWIP under the HWA program, considerable personal and professional animosity developed between Diebner and Heisenberg's inner circle, which included Karl Wirtz, and Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker.\nAt a scientific conference on 26-28 February 1942 at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physics, called by the Army Weapons Office, Heisenberg presented a lecture to Reichs officials on energy acquisition from nuclear fission. The lecture, entitled \"Die theoretischen Grundlagen für die Energiegewinning aus der Uranspaltung\" was, as Heisenberg confessed after the Second World War in a letter to Samuel Goudsmit, \"adapted to the intellectual level of a Reichs Minister\". Heisenberg lectured on the enormous energy potential of nuclear fission, stating that 250 million electron volts could be released through the fission of an atomic nucleus. Heisenberg stressed that pure U-235 had to be obtained to achieve a chain reaction. He explored various ways of obtaining isotope 235 U/92 in its pure from, including uranium enrichment and an alternative layered method of normal uranium and a moderator in a machine. This machine, he noted, could be used in practical ways to fuel vehicles, ships and submarines. Heisenberg stressed the importance of the Army Weapons Office's financial and material support for this scientific endevour. A second scientific conference followed. Lectures were heard on problems of modern physics with decisive importance for the national defense and economy. The conference was attended by Bernhard Rust, the Reichs Minister of Science, Education and National Culture. At the conference Reichs Minister Rust decided to take the nuclear project away from the Kaiser Wilhelm Society. The Reichs Research Council was to take on the project. In April 1942 the army returned the Physics Institute to the Kaiser Wilhelm Society, naming Heisenberg as Director at the Institute. With this appointment at the KWIP, Heisenberg obtained his first professorship. Peter Debye was still director of the institute, but had gone on leave to the United States after he had refused to become a German citizen when the HWA took administrative control of the KWIP. Heisenberg still also had his department of physics at the University of Leipzig where work had been done for the \"Uranverein\" by Robert Döpel and his wife Klara Döpel.\n\nOn 4 June 1942, Heisenberg was summoned to report to Albert Speer, Germany's Minister of Armaments, on the prospects for converting the Uranverein's research toward developing nuclear weapons. During the meeting, Heisenberg told Speer that a bomb could not be built before 1945, because it would require significant monetary resources and number of personnel. \n\nAfter the Uranverein project was placed under the leadership of the Reichs Research Council, it focused on nuclear power production and thus maintained its \"kriegswichtig\" (important for the war), funding therefore continued from the military. The nuclear power project was broken down into the following main areas: uranium and heavy water production, uranium isotope separation and the \"Uranmaschine\" (uranium machine, i.e., nuclear reactor). The project was then essentially split up between a number of institutes, where the directors dominated the research and set their own research agendas. The point in 1942, when the army relinquished its control of the German nuclear weapons program, was the zenith of the project relative to the number of personnel. About 70 scientists worked for the program, with about 40 devoting more than half their time to nuclear fission research. After 1942, the number of scientists working on applied nuclear fission diminished dramatically. Many of the scientists not working with the main institutes stopped working on nuclear fission and devoted their efforts to more pressing war related work.\n\nIn September 1942, Heisenberg submitted his first paper of a three-part series on the scattering matrix, or S-matrix, in elementary particle physics. The first two papers were published in 1943 and the third in 1944. The S-matrix described only the states of incident particles in a collision process, the states of those emerging from the collision, and stable bound states; there would be no reference to the intervening states. This was the same precedent as he followed in 1925 in what turned out to be the foundation of the matrix formulation of quantum mechanics through only the use of observables.\n\nIn February 1943, Heisenberg was appointed to the Chair for Theoretical Physics at the \"Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität\" (today, the Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin). In April, his election to the \"Preußische Akademie der Wissenschaften\" (Prussian Academy of Sciences) was approved. That same month, he moved his family to their retreat in as Allied bombing increased in Berlin. In the summer, he dispatched the first of his staff at the \"Kaiser-Wilhelm Institut für Physik\" to Hechingen and its neighboring town of Haigerloch, on the edge of the Black Forest, for the same reasons. From 18–26 October, he travelled to German-occupied Netherlands. In December 1943, Heisenberg visited German-occupied Poland.\n\nFrom 24 January to 4 February 1944, Heisenberg travelled to occupied Copenhagen, after the German army confiscated Bohr's Institute of Theoretical Physics. He made a short return trip in April. In December, Heisenberg lectured in neutral Switzerland. The United States Office of Strategic Services sent agent Moe Berg to attend the lecture carrying a pistol, with orders to shoot Heisenberg if his lecture indicated that Germany was close to completing an atomic bomb.\n\nIn January 1945, Heisenberg, with most of the rest of his staff, moved from the \"Kaiser-Wilhelm Institut für Physik\" to the facilities in the Black Forest.\n\nThe Alsos Mission was an Allied effort to determine if the Germans had an atomic bomb program and to exploit German atomic related facilities, research, materiel resources, and scientific personnel for the benefit of the US. Personnel on this operation generally swept into areas which had just come under control of the Allied military forces, but sometimes they operated in areas still under control by German forces. Berlin had been a location of many German scientific research facilities. To limit casualties and loss of equipment, many of these facilities were dispersed to other locations in the latter years of the war. The \"Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institut für Physik\" (KWIP, Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physics) had been bombed so it had mostly been moved in 1943 and 1944 to Hechingen and its neighboring town of Haigerloch, on the edge of the Black Forest, which eventually became the French occupation zone. This allowed the American task force of the Alsos Mission to take into custody a large number of German scientists associated with nuclear research.\n\nOn 30 March, the Alsos Mission reached Heidelberg, where important scientists were captured including Walther Bothe, Richard Kuhn, Philipp Lenard, and Wolfgang Gertner. Their interrogation revealed that Otto Hahn was at his laboratory in Tailfingen, while Heisenberg and Max von Laue were at Heisenberg's laboratory in Hechingen, and that the experimental natural uranium reactor that Heisenberg's team had built in Berlin had been moved to Haigerloch. Henceforth, the main focus of the Alsos Mission was on these nuclear facilities in the Württemberg area. Heisenberg was captured and arrested in Urfeld, on 3 May 1945, in an alpine operation in territory still under control by German forces. He was taken to Heidelberg, where, on 5 May, he met Goudsmit for the first time since the Ann Arbor visit in 1939. Germany surrendered just two days later. Heisenberg would not see his family again for eight months, as he was moved across France and Belgium and flown to England on 3 July 1945.\n\nNine of the prominent German scientists who published reports in \"Kernphysikalische Forschungsberichte\" as members of the \"Uranverein\" were captured by Operation Alsos and incarcerated in England under Operation Epsilon. 10 German scientists, including Heisenberg, were held at Farm Hall in England. The facility had been a safe house of the British foreign intelligence MI6. During their detention, their conversations were recorded. Conversations thought to be of intelligence value were transcribed and translated into English. The transcripts were released in 1992. On the 6th of August 1945 the scientists at Farm Hall learned from media reports that the USA had dropped an atomic bomb in Hiroshima, Japan. At first there was disbelief that a bomb had been built and dropped. In the weeks that followed, the German scientists discussed how the USA may have built the bomb. \n\nThe Farm Hall transcripts reveal that Heisenberg, along with other physicists interned at Farm Hall including Otto Hahn and Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker, were glad the Allies had won World War II. Heisenberg told scientists that he had never contemplated a bomb, only an atomic pile to produce energy. The morality of creating a bomb for the Nazis was also discussed. Only a few of the scientists expressed genuine horror at the prospect of nuclear weapons, and Heisenberg himself was cautious in discussing the matter. On the failure of the German nuclear weapons program to build an atomic bomb, Heisenberg remarked: \"We wouldn't have had the moral courage to recommend to the Government in the spring of 1942 that they should employ 120,000 men just for building the thing up.\"\n\nOn 3 January 1946, the 10 Operation Epsilon detainees were transported to Alswede in Germany, which was in the British occupation zone. Heisenberg settled in Göttingen, also in the British zone. In July, he was named director of the \"Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institut für Physik\" (KWIP, Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physics), then located in Göttingen. Shortly thereafter, it was renamed the Max Planck Institut für Physik, in honor of Max Planck and to assuage political objections to the continuation of the institute. \n\nIn 1949, the \"Deutsche Forschungsrat\" (German Research Council) was established by the \"Max-Planck Gesellschaft\" (MPG, Max Planck Society, successor organization to the \"Kaiser-Wilhelm Gesellschaft\"). Heisenberg was appointed president of the \"Deutsche Forschungsrat\". In 1951, the organization was fused with the Notgemeinschaft der Deutschen Wissenschaft (NG, Emergency Association of German Science) and that same year renamed the \"Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft\" (DFG, German Research Foundation). With the merger, Heisenberg was appointed to the presidium.\n\nIn 1952, Heisenberg served as the chairman of the Commission for Atomic Physics of the DFG. Also that year, he headed the German delegation to the European Council for Nuclear Research (CERN).\nIn 1953, Heisenberg was appointed president of the \"Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung\" by Konrad Adenauer. Heisenberg served until 1975. Also, from 1953, Heisenberg's theoretical work concentrated on the unified field theory of elementary particles.\n\nIn 1958 the Max-Planck-Institut für Physik was moved to Munich, expanded, and renamed Max-Planck-Institut für Physik und Astrophysik (MPIFA). In the interim, Heisenberg and the astrophysicist Ludwig Biermann were co-directors of MPIFA. Heisenberg also became an \"ordentlicher Professor\" (ordinarius professor) at the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München. Heisenberg was the sole director of MPIFA from 1960 to 1970. Heisenberg resigned his directorship of the MPIFA on 31 December 1970.\n\nIn 1946 the German scientist Heinz Pose, head of Laboratory V in Obninsk, wrote a letter to Heisenberg inviting him to work in the USSR. The letter lauded the working conditions in the USSR and the available resources, as well as the favorable attitude of the Soviets towards German scientists. A courier hand delivered the recruitment letter, dated 18 July 1946, to Heisenberg; Heisenberg politely declined. In 1947, Heisenberg presented lectures in Cambridge, Edinburgh and Bristol. Heisenberg contributed to the understanding of the phenomenon of superconductivity with a paper in 1947 and two papers in 1948, one of them with Max von Laue.\n\nIn the period shortly after World War II, Heisenberg briefly returned to the subject of his doctoral thesis, turbulence. Three papers were published in 1948 and one in 1950. In the post-war period Heisenberg continued his interests in cosmic-ray showers with considerations on multiple production of mesons. He published three papers in 1949, two in 1952, and one in 1955.\n\nIn late 1955 to early 1956, Heisenberg gave the Gifford Lectures at St Andrews University, in Scotland, on the intellectual history of physics. The lectures were later published as \"Physics and Philosophy: The Revolution in Modern Science\". During 1956 and 1957, Heisenberg was the chairman of the \"Arbeitskreis Kernphysik\" (Nuclear Physics Working Group) of the \"Fachkommission II \"Forschung und Nachwuchs\"\" (Commission II \"Research and Growth\") of the \"Deutschen Atomkommission\" (DAtK, German Atomic Energy Commission). Other members of the Nuclear Physics Working Group in both 1956 and 1957 were: Walther Bothe, Hans Kopfermann (vice-chairman), Fritz Bopp, Wolfgang Gentner, Otto Haxel, Willibald Jentschke, Heinz Maier-Leibnitz, Josef Mattauch, Wolfgang Riezler, Wilhelm Walcher and Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker. Wolfgang Paul was also a member of the group during 1957.\n\nIn 1957, Heisenberg was a signatory of the \"Declaration of the German Nuclear Physicists\" of the \"Göttinger Achtzehn\" (Göttingen Eighteen). From 1957, Heisenberg was interested in plasma physics and the process of nuclear fusion. He also collaborated with the International Institute of Atomic Physics in Geneva. He was a member of the Institute's Scientific Policy Committee, and for several years was the Committee's chairman. He was one of the eight signatories of the Memorandum of Tübingen which called for the recognition of the Oder-Neiße line as the official border between Germany and Poland and spoke against a possible nuclear armament of West Germany. \n\nIn 1973, Heisenberg gave a lecture at Harvard University on the historical development of the concepts of quantum theory. On 24 March 1973, Heisenberg gave a speech before the Catholic Academy of Bavaria, accepting the Romano Guardini Prize. An English translation of its title is \"Scientific and Religious Truth\". Its stated goal was \"In what follows, then, we shall first of all deal with the unassailability and value of scientific truth, and then with the much wider field of religion, of which – so far as the Christian religion is concerned – Guardini himself has so persuasively written; finally – and this will be the hardest part to formulate – we shall speak of the relationship of the two truths.\"\n\nIn January 1937 Heisenberg met Elisabeth Schumacher (1914–1998) at a private music recital. Elisabeth was the daughter of a well-known Berlin economics professor, and her brother was the economist E. F. Schumacher, author of \"Small Is Beautiful\". Heisenberg married her on 29 April. Fraternal twins Maria and Wolfgang were born in January 1938, whereupon Wolfgang Pauli congratulated Heisenberg on his \"pair creation\" – a word play on a process from elementary particle physics, pair production. They had five more children over the next 12 years: Barbara, Christine, Jochen, Martin and Verena. Martin became a neurobiologist at the University of Würzburg and Jochen a physics professor at the University of New Hampshire. Heisenberg enjoyed classical music and was an accomplished pianist.\n\nHeisenberg was raised and lived as a Lutheran Christian. His autobiography starts with the young Heisenberg in his late teenage years, reading Plato's \"Timaeus\" while hiking in the Bavarian Alps. Heisenberg recounted the philosophical conversations with his fellow students and teachers on understanding the atom while receiving his scientific training in Munich, Göttingen and Copenhagen. \n\nIn his speech Scientific and Religious Truth (1974) while accepting the Romano Guardini Prize, Heisenberg affirmed:\n\nIn his late-sixties Heisenberg penned his autobiography for the mass market. In 1969 the book was published in Germany, in early 1971 it was published in English and in the years thereafter in a string of other languages. Heisenberg had initiated the project in 1966, when his public lectures increasingly turned to the subjects of philosophy and religion. Heisenberg had sent the publishers Hirzel and Wiley the manuscript for a textbook on the unified field theory. This manuscript, he wrote to one of his publishers, was the preparatory work for his autobiography. He structured his autobiography in themes, covering: 1) The goal of exact science, 2) The problematic of language in atomic physics, 3) Abstraction in mathematics and science, 4) The divisibility of matter or Kant's antimony, 5) The basic symmetry and its substantiation, and 6) Science and religion. \n\nHeisenberg wrote his memoirs as a chain of conversations, covering the course of his life. The book became a popular success, but was regarded as troublesome by historians of science. In the preface Heisenberg wrote that he had abridged historical events, to make them more concise. At the time of publication it was reviewed by Paul Forman in the journal \"Science\" with the comment \"Now here is a memoir in the form of rationally reconstructed dialogue. And the dialogue as Galileo well knew, is itself a most insidious literary device: lively, entertaining, and especially suited for insinuating opinions while yet evading responsibility for them.\" Few scientific memoirs had been published, but Konrad Lorenz and Adolf Portmann had penned popular books that conveyed scholarship to a wide audience. Heisenberg worked on his autobiography with the publisher Piper in Munich and initially proposed the title \"Gespräche im Umkreis der Atomphysik\" (\"Conversations around atomic physics\"). He settled with his publisher on \"Der Teil und das Ganze\" (\"The part and the whole\").\n\nHeisenberg died of cancer of the kidneys and gall bladder at his home, on 1 February 1976. The next evening, his colleagues and friends walked in remembrance from the Institute of Physics to his home and each put a candle near the front door. He is buried at Munich Waldfriedhof.\n\nHeisenberg was awarded a number of honors:\n\nThe following reports were published in \"Kernphysikalische Forschungsberichte\" (\"Research Reports in Nuclear Physics\"), an internal publication of the German \"Uranverein\". The reports were classified Top Secret, they had very limited distribution, and the authors were not allowed to keep copies. The reports were confiscated under the Allied Operation Alsos and sent to the United States Atomic Energy Commission for evaluation. In 1971, the reports were declassified and returned to Germany. The reports are available at the Karlsruhe Nuclear Research Center and the American Institute of Physics.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5742518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5742518", "title": "Wissenschaft", "text": "Wissenschaft\n\nWissenschaft is the German language term for any study that involves systematic research. The term is sometimes roughly translated as \"science\", although Wissenschaft is much broader and includes every systematic academic study of any area, for example, humanities like art or religion. \"Wissenschaft\" incorporates scientific and non-scientific inquiry, learning, knowledge, scholarship and implies that knowledge is a dynamic process discoverable for oneself, rather than something that is handed down. It did not necessarily imply empirical research.\n\n\"Wissenschaft\" was the official ideology of German universities during the 19th century, and it led to the development of the modern research university. It emphasized the unity of teaching and individual research or discovery by the student, the \"Einheit von Lehre und Forschung\". It suggests that education is a process of growing and becoming.\n\nSome 19th-century Americans visiting German universities interpreted Wissenschaft as meaning \"pure science,\" untainted by social purposes and opposed to the liberal arts.\n\nSome contemporary scientists and philosophers interpret \"Wissenschaft\" as meaning any true knowledge or successful method, including philosophical, mathematical, and logical knowledge and methods.\n\nBefore Immanuel Kant published his \"Critique of Judgment\" in 1790, the \"\"schöne Wissenshaft\"\" (roughly, \"fine sciences\") were highly regarded. The \"\"schöne Wissenshaft\"\" included poetry, rhetoric, and other subjects that were meant to promote an understanding of truth, beauty, and goodness. Kant argued persuasively that aesthetic judgments were not an area of systematic knowledge, and therefore were outside the realm of Wissenschaft.\n\nAlthough \"Wissenschaft\" and \"science\" were roughly comparable words in previously centuries, the word \"science\" in English \"has narrowed its meaning incomparably, whereas Wissenschaft...has retained its broad meaning\". In modern English, the word \"science\" refers to systematically acquired, objective knowledge that is about a particular subject (the workings of the natural world, including the people in it) and produced through a particular methodology (the scientific method), in a progressive, iterative process that builds on previous knowledge. Wissenschaft, by contrast, encompasses knowledge of objects as well as truths, such as what it means to be good.\n\nThe difficulties of being precise about knowledge are one reason why English is not considered well-suited for discussions about epistemology, and terms from other languages, notably Latin and German, are commonly used.\n\nPhrases employing this term include the following:\n\n"}
