{"id": "7653590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7653590", "title": "Ammons Creek Falls", "text": "Ammons Creek Falls\n\nAmmons Creek Falls is a waterfall located in the Tallulah Ranger District of the Chattahoochee National Forest in Rabun County, Georgia that cascades for over 100 feet. There is 1.75 mile loop hiking trail that provides access to both nearby Holcomb Creek Falls and Ammons Creek Falls. There is a wooden observation deck for viewing the falls.\n\nThe falls can be accessed from Clayton by taking Warwoman Road east for 10 miles. Turn left onto Hale Ridge Road (Forest Service Road 7) for 7 miles until it intersects Overflow Road (Forest Service Road 86).\n\n"}
{"id": "55073597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55073597", "title": "Aspledon Undae", "text": "Aspledon Undae\n\nAspledon Undae is one of the named northern circumpolar dune fields in the vicinity of Planum Boreum, the Martian North pole. It is named after one of the classical albedo features on Mars. Its name was officially approved by the International Astronomical Union (IAU) on 20 March 2007. Its name is Greek, and derives from the name of a town in Boeotia, Ancient Greece, which, in turn, took its name from Aspledon (), son of Poseidon, the ancient Greek god of the sea. The dunes of Aspledon Undae extend from latitude 71.47°N to 75.14°N and from longitude 305.83°E to 315.04°E (44.96°W – 54.17°W). Its centre is located at latitude 73.06°N, longitude 309.65°E (50.35°W), and has a diameter of 215.2 km.\n\nAspledon Undae is the southernmost of the albedo-named dune fields of Planum Boreum, and lies to the south of Hyperboreae Undae and southeast of Siton Undae. It is theorised that the formation of Aspledon Undae may have occurred during early erosion incidents of the Planum Boreum cavi unit, and that Rupes Tenuis may have also been a sand source, although it is now depleted. Other dune fields sharing the same formation history include Olympia and Siton Undae. Aspledon Undae, along with Hyperboreae, Siton, Olympia, and Alalos Undae is one of the five named northern circumpolar dune fields. However, unlike the other four, it is not one of the densest. The dune field of Aspledon Undae, along with those of Siton, Hyperboreae, and Abalos Undae, overlays the lowlands of Vastitas Borealis. Aspledon Undae has been imaged by NASA's 2001 Mars Odyssey robotic spacecraft using the Thermal Emission Imaging System (THEMIS) camera on board the spacecraft.\n\nAccording to Tanaka et al., Planum Boreum lies on two major basal units: The Rupes Tenuis unit and the Planum Boreum Cavi unit. The age of the Rupes Tenuis unit is early Amazonian, while the Planum Boreum Cavi unit overlays the Rupes Tenuis unit, and its age is Middle to Late Amazonian. The Olympia Undae unit may have formed during early denudation incidents of the Planum Boreum Cavi unit in its immediate neighbourhood. More distant dune fields from the Planum Boreum Cavi unit, such as Siton, Aspledon, and a large portion of Olympia Undae may have formed during earlier erosional events of the Planum Boreum Cavi unit. Other sources to these dune fields may include Rupes Tenuis, although this source is now considered to be exhausted.\n"}
{"id": "24746598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24746598", "title": "Bajrak of Oštrozub", "text": "Bajrak of Oštrozub\n\nBajrak of Oštrozub was a bajrak which included about 43 villages in southern and central Lapušnica and southern Drenica, today's Kosovo. \"Bajrak\"s were military units and later administrative land divisions created in some provinces of historical Albania which also included what is today Kosovo during the Ottoman Empire. It was a patriarchal organization, similar to a commune or small district today.\n\nThe Bajrak of Oštrozub was one of the largest of Kosovo and Albania. It is believed that it formed as an administrative unit in the mountainous area of Lapušnica which was not controlled directly by the Ottoman government due to its location so it was given autonomy. The Bajrak of Oštrozub is believed to have been formed sometime in the mid-17th century based on Oštrozub which today is a village in the municipality of Mališevo.\n\nThe Bajrak of Oštrozub also was popularly known as Bajrak Kapakli in reference to the warfare conducted by fighters in the region against the Ottoman Empire during the Russo-Turkish war.\n\nIt included about 43 villages:\n\n"}
{"id": "50090755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50090755", "title": "Bluetooth low energy beacon", "text": "Bluetooth low energy beacon\n\nBluetooth beacons are hardware transmitters - a class of Bluetooth low energy (LE) devices that broadcast their identifier to nearby portable electronic devices. The technology enables smartphones, tablets and other devices to perform actions when in close proximity to a beacon.\n\nBluetooth beacons use Bluetooth low energy proximity sensing to transmit a universally unique identifier picked up by a compatible app or operating system. The identifier and several bytes sent with it can be used to determine the device's physical location, track customers, or trigger a location-based action on the device such as a check-in on social media or a push notification.\n\nOne application is distributing messages at a specific Point of Interest, for example a store, a bus stop, a room or a more specific location like a piece of furniture or a vending machine. This is similar to previously used geopush technology based on GPS, but with a much reduced impact on battery life and much extended precision.\n\nAnother application is an indoor positioning system, which helps smartphones determine their approximate location or context. With the help of a Bluetooth beacon, a smartphone's software can approximately find its relative location to a Bluetooth beacon in a store. Brick and mortar retail stores use the beacons for mobile commerce, offering customers special deals through mobile marketing, and can enable mobile payments through point of sale systems.\n\nBluetooth beacons differs from some other location-based technologies as the broadcasting device (beacon) is only a 1-way transmitter to the receiving smartphone or receiving device, and necessitates a specific app installed on the device to interact with the beacons. This ensures that only the installed app (not the Bluetooth beacon transmitter) can track users, potentially against their will, as they passively walk around the transmitters.\n\nBluetooth beacon transmitters come in a variety of form factors, including small coin cell devices, USB sticks, and generic Bluetooth 4.0 capable USB dongles.\n\nThe development of the \"short-link\" radio technology, later named Bluetooth, was initiated in 1989 by Dr. Nils Rydbeck CTO at Ericsson Mobile in Lund and Dr. Johan Ullman. The purpose was to develop wireless headsets, according to two inventions by Johan Ullman, SE 8902098-6, issued 1989-06-12 and SE 9202239, issued 1992-07-24. Since its creation the Bluetooth standard has gone through many generations each adding different features. Bluetooth 1.2 allowed for faster speed up to ~700 kbit/s. Bluetooth 2.0 improved on this for speeds up to 3 Mbit/s. Bluetooth 2.1 improved device pairing speed and security. Bluetooth 3.0 again improved transfer speed up to 24 Mbit/s. In 2010 Bluetooth 4.0 (Low Energy) was released with its main focus being reduced power consumption. Before Bluetooth 4.0 the majority of connections using Bluetooth were two way, both devices listen and talk to each other. Although this two way communication is still possible with Bluetooth 4.0, one way communication is also possible. This one way communication allows a bluetooth device to transmit information but not listen for it. These one way \"beacons\" do not require a paired connection like previous Bluetooth devices so they have new useful applications.\n\nBluetooth beacons operate using the Bluetooth 4.0 Low Energy standard so battery powered devices are possible. Battery life of devices varies depending on manufacturer. The Bluetooth LE protocol is significantly more power efficient than Bluetooth Classic. Several chipsets makers, including Texas Instruments and Nordic Semiconductor now supply chipsets optimized for iBeacon use. Power consumption depends on iBeacon configuration parameters of advertising interval and transmit power. Battery life can range between 1–48 months. Apple's recommended setting of 100 ms advertising interval with a coin cell battery provides for 1–3 months of life, which increases to 2–3 years as advertising interval is increased to 900 ms.\n\nBattery consumption of the phones is a factor that must be taken into account when deploying beacon enabled apps. A recent report has shown that\nolder phones tend to draw more battery power in the vicinity of iBeacons, while the newer phones can be more efficient in the same environment. In addition to the time spent by the phone scanning, number of scans and number of beacons in the vicinity are also significant factors for battery drain, as pointed out by the Aislelabs report. \nIn a follow up report, Aislelabs found a drastic improvement in battery consumption for iPhone5S, iPhone 5C versus the older model iPhone 4S.\nAt 10 surrounding iBeacons, iPhone 4S can consume up to 11% of battery per hour whereas iPhone5S consumes a little less than 5% battery per hour.\nAn energy efficient iBeacon application needs to consider these aspects in order to strike a good balance between app responsiveness and battery consumption.\n\nBluetooth beacons can also come in the form of USB dongles. These small USB beacons can be powered by a standard USB port which makes them ideal for long term permanent installations.\n\nBluetooth beacons can be used to send a packet of information that contains a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID). This UUID is used to trigger events specific to that beacon. In the case of Apple's iBeacon the UUID will be recognized by an app on the user device that will trigger an event. This event is fully customizable by the app developer but in the case of advertising the event might be a push notification with an ad. However, with a UID based system the users device must connect to an online server which is capable of understanding the beacons UUID. Once the UUID is sent to the server the appropriate message action is sent to a users device.\n\nOther methods of advertising are also possible with beacons, URIBeacon and Google's Eddystone allow for a URI transmission mode that unlike iBeacons UID doesn't require an outside server for recognition. The URI beacons transmit a URI which could be a link to a webpage and the user will see that URI directly on their phone.\n\nIndoor positioning with beacons falls into three categories. Implementations with many beacons per room, implementations with one beacon per room, and implementations with a few beacons per building. Indoor navigation with Bluetooth is still in its infancy but attempts have been made to find a working solution.\n\nBeacons can be associated with the artpieces in a museum to encourage further interaction. For example, a notification can be sent to user's mobile device when user is in the proximity to a particular artpiece. By sending user the notification, user is alerted with the artpiece in his proximity, and if user indicates their further interest, a specific app can be installed to interact with the encountered artpiece . \nIn general, a native app is needed for a mobile device to interact with the beacon if the beacon uses iBeacon protocol; whereas if Eddystone is employed, user can interact with the artpiece through a physical web URL broadcast by the Eddystone.\n\nWith multiple beacons per room trilateration can be used to estimate a users' position to within about 2 meters. Bluetooth beacons are capable of transmitting their Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) value in addition to other data. This RSSI value is calibrated by the manufacturer of the beacon to be the signal strength of the beacon at a known distance, typically one meter. Using the known output signal strength of the beacon and the signal strength observed by the receiving device an approximation can be made about the distance between the beacon and the device. However this approximation is not very reliable, so for more accurate position tracking other methods are preferred. Since its release in 2010 many studies have been connected using Bluetooth beacons for tracking. A few methods have been tested to find the best way of combining the RSSI values for tracking. Neural networks have been proposed as a good way of reducing the error in estimation. A Stigmergic approach has also been tested, this method uses an intensity map to estimate a users location.\n\nWith only one beacon per room, a user can use their known room position in conjunction with a virtual map of all the rooms in a building to navigate a building. A building with many separate rooms may need a different beacon configuration for navigation. With one beacon in each room a user can use an app to know the room they are in, and a simple shortest path algorithm can be used to give them the best route to the room they are looking for. This configuration requires a digital map of the building but attempts have been made to make this map creation easier.\n\nBeacons can be used in conjunction with pedestrian dead reckoning techniques to add checkpoints to a large open space. PDR uses a known last location in conjunction with direction and speed information provided by the user to estimate a person's location. This technique can be used to estimate a person's location as they walk through a building. Using Bluetooth beacons as checkpoints the user's location can be recalculated to reduce error. In this way a few Bluetooth beacons can be used to cover a large area like a mall.\n\nUsing the device tracking capabilities of Bluetooth beacons, in-home patient monitoring is possible. Using bluetooth beacons a person's movements and activities can be tracked in their home. Bluetooth beacons are a good alternative to in house cameras due to their increased level of privacy. Additionally bluetooth beacons can be used in hospitals or other workplaces to ensure workers meet certain standards. For example, a beacon may be placed at a hand sanitizer dispenser in a hospital, the beacons can help ensure employees are using the station regularly.\n\nIn mid-2013, Apple introduced iBeacons and experts wrote about how it is designed to help the retail industry by simplifying payments and enabling on-site offers. On December 6, 2013, Apple activated iBeacons across its 254 US retail stores. McDonald's has used the devices to give special offers to consumers in its fast-food stores. As of May 2014, different hardware iBeacons can be purchased for as little as $5 per device to more than $30 per device. Each of these different iBeacons have varying default settings for their default transmit power and iBeacon advertisement frequency. Some hardware iBeacons advertise at as low as 1 Hz while others can be as fast as 10 Hz. iBeacon technology is still in its infancy. One well reported software quirk exists on 4.2 and 4.3 Android systems whereby the system's bluetooth stack crashes when presented with many iBeacons. This was reportedly fixed in Android 4.4.4.\n\nAltBeacon is an open source alternative to iBeacon created by Radius Networks\n\nURIBeacons are different from iBeacons and AltBeacons because rather than broadcasting an identifier, they send a URL which can be understood immediately.\n\nEddystone is Google's standard for Bluetooth beacons. It supports three types of packets, Eddystone-UID, Eddystone-URL, and Eddystone-TLM. Eddystone-UID functions in a very similar way to Apple's iBeacon, however, it supports additional telemetry data with Eddystone-TLM. The telemetry information is sent along with the UID data. The beacon information available includes battery voltage, beacon temperature, number of packets sent since last startup, and beacon uptime.\n\nAlthough the Near field communication (NFC) environment is very different and has many non-overlapping applications, it is still compared with iBeacons.\n\n"}
{"id": "55474919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55474919", "title": "Boa Esperança, São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Boa Esperança, São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nBoa Esperança is a settlement in the southwestern part of the Lobata District on São Tomé Island in São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 97 (2012 census). It lies 4 km northwest of Monte Café, 5 km southwest of Agostinho Neto and 9 km east of Neves.\n"}
{"id": "3462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3462", "title": "Bolivia", "text": "Bolivia\n\nBolivia (; ; ; ; ), officially the Plurinational State of Bolivia (), is a landlocked country located in western-central South America. The capital is Sucre while the seat of government and financial center is located in La Paz. The largest city and principal industrial center is Santa Cruz de la Sierra, located on the Llanos Orientales (tropical lowlands) a mostly flat region in the east of Bolivia.\n\nThe sovereign state of Bolivia is a constitutionally unitary state, divided into nine departments. Its geography varies from the peaks of the Andes in the West, to the Eastern Lowlands, situated within the Amazon Basin. It is bordered to the north and east by Brazil, to the southeast by Paraguay, to the south by Argentina, to the southwest by Chile, and to the northwest by Peru. One-third of the country is within the Andean mountain range. With of area, Bolivia is the fifth largest country in South America and the 27th largest in the world.\n\nThe country's population, estimated at 11 million, is multiethnic, including Amerindians, Mestizos, Europeans, Asians and Africans. The racial and social segregation that arose from Spanish colonialism has continued to the modern era. Spanish is the official and predominant language, although 36 indigenous languages also have official status, of which the most commonly spoken are Guarani, Aymara and Quechua languages.\n\nBefore Spanish colonization, the Andean region of Bolivia was part of the Inca Empire, while the northern and eastern lowlands were inhabited by independent tribes. Spanish \"conquistadors\" arriving from Cuzco and Asunción took control of the region in the 16th century. During the Spanish colonial period Bolivia was administered by the Royal Audiencia of Charcas. Spain built its empire in large part upon the silver that was extracted from Bolivia's mines.\nAfter the first call for independence in 1809, 16 years of war followed before the establishment of the Republic, named for Simón Bolívar. Over the course of the 19th and early 20th century Bolivia lost control of several peripheral territories to neighboring countries including the seizure of its coastline by Chile in 1879. Bolivia remained relatively politically stable until 1971, when Hugo Banzer led a coup d'état which replaced the socialist government of Juan José Torres with a military dictatorship headed by Banzer; Torres was murdered in Buenos Aires, Argentina by a right-wing death squad in 1976. Banzer's regime cracked down on leftist and socialist opposition and other forms of dissent, resulting in the torture and deaths of a number of Bolivian citizens. Banzer was ousted in 1978 and later returned as the democratically elected president of Bolivia from 1997 to 2001.\n\nModern Bolivia is a charter member of the UN, IMF, NAM, OAS, ACTO, Bank of the South, ALBA and USAN. For over a decade Bolivia has had one of the fastest economic growths in Latin America; however, it remains the second poorest country in South America. It is a developing country, with a medium ranking in the Human Development Index, a poverty level of 38.6%, and it has one of the lowest crime rates in Latin America. Its main economic activities include agriculture, forestry, fishing, mining, and manufacturing goods such as textiles, clothing, refined metals, and refined petroleum. Bolivia is very rich in minerals, including tin, silver, and lithium.\n\nBolivia is named after Simón Bolívar, a leader in the Spanish American wars of independence. The leader of Venezuela, Antonio José de Sucre, had been given the option by Bolívar to either unite Charcas (present-day Bolivia) with the newly formed Republic of Peru, to unite with the United Provinces of Rio de la Plata, or to formally declare its independence from Spain as a wholly independent state. Sucre opted to create a brand new state and on 6 August 1825, with local support, named it in honor of Simón Bolívar.\n\nThe original name was Republic of Bolívar. Some days later, congressman Manuel Martín Cruz proposed: \"If from Romulus comes Rome, then from Bolívar comes Bolivia\" (). The name was approved by the Republic on 3 October 1825. In 2009, a new constitution changed the country's official name to \"Plurinational State of Bolivia\" in recognition of the multi-ethnic nature of the country and the enhanced position of Bolivia's indigenous peoples under the new constitution.\n\nThe region now known as Bolivia had been occupied for over 2,500 years when the Aymara arrived. However, present-day Aymara associate themselves with the ancient civilization of the Tiwanaku culture which had its capital at Tiwanaku, in Western Bolivia. The capital city of Tiwanaku dates from as early as 1500 BC when it was a small, agriculturally based village.\n\nThe community grew to urban proportions between AD 600 and AD 800, becoming an important regional power in the southern Andes. According to early estimates, the city covered approximately at its maximum extent and had between 15,000 and 30,000 inhabitants. In 1996 satellite imaging was used to map the extent of fossilized suka kollus (flooded raised fields) across the three primary valleys of Tiwanaku, arriving at population-carrying capacity estimates of anywhere between 285,000 and 1,482,000 people.\n\nAround AD 400, Tiwanaku went from being a locally dominant force to a predatory state. Tiwanaku expanded its reaches into the Yungas and brought its culture and way of life to many other cultures in Peru, Bolivia, and Chile. Tiwanaku was not a violent culture in many respects. In order to expand its reach, Tiwanaku exercised great political astuteness, creating colonies, fostering trade agreements (which made the other cultures rather dependent), and instituting state cults.\n\nThe empire continued to grow with no end in sight. William H. Isbell states \"Tiahuanaco underwent a dramatic transformation between AD 600 and 700 that established new monumental standards for civic architecture and greatly increased the resident population.\" Tiwanaku continued to absorb cultures rather than eradicate them. Archaeologists note a dramatic adoption of Tiwanaku ceramics into the cultures which became part of the Tiwanaku empire. Tiwanaku's power was further solidified through the trade it implemented among the cities within its empire.\n\nTiwanaku's elites gained their status through the surplus food they controlled, collected from outlying regions and then redistributed to the general populace. Further, this elite's control of llama herds became a powerful control mechanism as llamas were essential for carrying goods between the civic centre and the periphery. These herds also came to symbolize class distinctions between the commoners and the elites. Through this control and manipulation of surplus resources, the elite's power continued to grow until about AD 950. At this time a dramatic shift in climate occurred, causing a significant drop in precipitation in the Titicaca Basin, believed by archaeologists to have been on the scale of a major drought.\n\nAs the rainfall decreased, many of the cities farther away from Lake Titicaca began to tender fewer foodstuffs to the elites. As the surplus of food decreased, and thus the amount available to underpin their power, the control of the elites began to falter. The capital city became the last place viable for food production due to the resiliency of the raised field method of agriculture. Tiwanaku disappeared around AD 1000 because food production, the main source of the elites' power, dried up. The area remained uninhabited for centuries thereafter.\n\nBetween 1438 and 1527, the Inca empire, during its expansion from its capital at Cuzco, Peru. It gained control over much of what is now Andean Bolivia and extended its control into the fringes of the Amazon basin.\n\nThe Spanish conquest of the Inca empire began in 1524, and was mostly completed by 1533. The territory now called Bolivia was known as Charcas, and was under the authority of the Viceroy of Lima. Local government came from the Audiencia de Charcas located in Chuquisaca (La Plata—modern Sucre). Founded in 1545 as a mining town, Potosí soon produced fabulous wealth, becoming the largest city in the New World with a population exceeding 150,000 people.\n\nBy the late 16th century, Bolivian silver was an important source of revenue for the Spanish Empire. A steady stream of natives served as labor force under the brutal, slave conditions of the Spanish version of the pre-Columbian draft system called the mita. Charcas was transferred to the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata in 1776 and the people from Buenos Aires, the capital of the Viceroyalty, coined the term \"Upper Peru\" () as a popular reference to the Royal Audiencia of Charcas. Túpac Katari led the indigenous rebellion that laid siege to La Paz in March 1781, during which 20,000 people died. As Spanish royal authority weakened during the Napoleonic wars, sentiment against colonial rule grew.\n\nThe struggle for independence started in the city of Sucre on 25 May 1809 and the Chuquisaca Revolution (Chuquisaca was then the name of the city) is known as the first cry of Freedom in Latin America. That revolution was followed by the La Paz revolution on 16 July 1809. The La Paz revolution marked a complete split with the Spanish government, while the Chuquisaca Revolution established a local independent junta in the name of the Spanish King deposed by Napoleon Bonaparte. Both revolutions were short-lived and defeated by the Spanish authorities in the Viceroyalty of the Rio de La Plata, but the following year the Spanish American wars of independence raged across the continent.\n\nBolivia was captured and recaptured many times during the war by the royalists and patriots. Buenos Aires sent three military campaigns, all of which were defeated, and eventually limited itself to protecting the national borders at Salta. Bolivia was finally freed of Royalist dominion by Antonio José de Sucre, with a military campaign coming from the North in support of the campaign of Simón Bolívar. After 16 years of war the Republic was proclaimed on 6 August 1825.\n\nIn 1836, Bolivia, under the rule of Marshal Andrés de Santa Cruz, invaded Peru to reinstall the deposed president, General Luis José de Orbegoso. Peru and Bolivia formed the Peru-Bolivian Confederation, with de Santa Cruz as the \"Supreme Protector\". Following tension between the Confederation and Chile, Chile declared war on 28 December 1836. Argentina separately declared war on the Confederation on 9 May 1837. The Peruvian-Bolivian forces achieved several major victories during the War of the Confederation: the defeat of the Argentine expedition and the defeat of the first Chilean expedition on the fields of Paucarpata near the city of Arequipa.\n\nAt the outset of the war, the Chilean and Peruvian rebel army surrendered unconditionally and signed the Paucarpata Treaty. The treaty stipulated that Chile would withdraw from Peru-Bolivia, Chile would return captured Confederate ships, economic relations would be normalized, and the Confederation would pay Peruvian debt to Chile. In Chile, the government and public rejected the peace treaty. Chile organized a second attack on the Confederation and defeated it in the Battle of Yungay. After this defeat, Santa Cruz resigned and went to exile in Ecuador and then Paris, and the Peruvian-Bolivian Confederation was dissolved.\n\nFollowing the renewed independence of Peru, Peruvian president General Agustín Gamarra invaded Bolivia. The Peruvian army was decisively defeated at the Battle of Ingavi on 20 November 1841 where Gamarra was killed. The Bolivian army under General José Ballivián then mounted a counter-offensive, capturing the Peruvian port of Arica. Later, both sides signed a peace treaty in 1842, putting a final end to the war.\n\nA period of political and economic instability in the early-to-mid-19th century weakened Bolivia. In addition, during the War of the Pacific (1879–83), Chile occupied vast territories rich in natural resources south west of Bolivia, including the Bolivian coast. Chile took control of today's Chuquicamata area, the adjoining rich \"salitre\" (saltpeter) fields, and the port of Antofagasta among other Bolivian territories.\n\nThus, since independence, Bolivia has lost over half of its territory to neighboring countries. It also lost the state of Acre, in the Acre War, important because this region was known for its production of rubber. Peasants and the Bolivian army fought briefly but after a few victories, and facing the prospect of a total war against Brazil, it was forced to sign the Treaty of Petrópolis in 1903, in which Bolivia lost this rich territory. Popular myth has it that Bolivian president Mariano Melgarejo (1864–71) traded the land for what he called \"a magnificent white horse\" and Acre was subsequently flooded by Brazilians, which ultimately led to confrontation and fear of war with Brazil. In the late 19th century, an increase in the world price of silver brought Bolivia relative prosperity and political stability.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, tin replaced silver as the country's most important source of wealth. A succession of governments controlled by the economic and social elite followed laissez-faire capitalist policies through the first 30 years of the 20th century.\n\nLiving conditions of the native people, who constitute most of the population, remained deplorable. With work opportunities limited to primitive conditions in the mines and in large estates having nearly feudal status, they had no access to education, economic opportunity, and political participation. Bolivia's defeat by Paraguay in the Chaco War (1932–35), where Bolivia lost a great part of the Gran Chaco region in dispute, marked a turning-point.\n\nThe Revolutionary Nationalist Movement (MNR), the most historic political party, emerged as a broad-based party. Denied its victory in the 1951 presidential elections, the MNR led a successful revolution in 1952. Under President Víctor Paz Estenssoro, the MNR, having strong popular pressure, introduced universal suffrage into his political platform and carried out a sweeping land-reform promoting rural education and nationalization of the country's largest tin mines.\n\nTwelve years of tumultuous rule left the MNR divided. In 1964, a military junta overthrew President Estenssoro at the outset of his third term. The 1969 death of President René Barrientos Ortuño, a former member of the junta who was elected president in 1966, led to a succession of weak governments. Alarmed by the rising Popular Assembly and the increase in the popularity of President Juan José Torres, the military, the MNR, and others installed Colonel (later General) Hugo Banzer Suárez as president in 1971. He returned to the presidency in 1997 through 2001.\n\nThe United States' Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) had been active in providing finances and training to the Bolivian military dictatorship in the 1960s. The revolutionary leader Che Guevara was killed by a team of CIA officers and members of the Bolivian Army on 9 October 1967, in Bolivia. Félix Rodríguez was a CIA officer on the team with the Bolivian Army that captured and shot Guevara. Rodriguez said that after he received a Bolivian presidential execution order, he told \"the soldier who pulled the trigger to aim carefully, to remain consistent with the Bolivian government's story that Che had been killed in action during a clash with the Bolivian army.\" Rodriguez said the US government had wanted Che in Panama, and \"I could have tried to falsify the command to the troops, and got Che to Panama as the US government said they had wanted\", but that he had chosen to \"let history run its course\" as desired by Bolivia.\n\nElections in 1979 and 1981 were inconclusive and marked by fraud. There were coups d'état, counter-coups, and caretaker governments. In 1980, General Luis García Meza Tejada carried out a ruthless and violent coup d'état that did not have popular support. He pacified the people by promising to remain in power only for one year. At the end of the year, he staged a televised rally to claim popular support and announced, \"Bueno, me quedo\", or, \"All right; I'll stay [in office].\" After a military rebellion forced out Meza in 1981, three other military governments in 14 months struggled with Bolivia's growing problems. Unrest forced the military to convoke the Congress, elected in 1980, and allow it to choose a new chief executive. In October 1982, Hernán Siles Zuazo again became president, 22 years after the end of his first term of office (1956–60).\n\nGonzalo Sánchez de Lozada pursued an aggressive economic and social reform agenda. The most dramatic reform was the \"capitalization\" program, under which investors, typically foreign, acquired 50% ownership and management control of public enterprises in return for agreed upon capital investments.\n\nIn 1993, Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada ran for president in alliance with the Tupac Katari Revolutionary Liberation Movement, which inspired indigenous-sensitive and multicultural-aware policies. In 1993, Sanchez de Lozada introduced the \"Plan de Todos\", which led to the decentralization of government, introduction of intercultural bilingual education, implementation of agrarian legislation, and privatization of state owned businesses. The plan explicitly stated that Bolivian citizens would own a minimum of 51% of enterprises; under the plan, most state-owned enterprises (SOEs), though not mines, were sold. This privatization of SOEs led to a neoliberal structuring.\n\nThe Law of Popular Participation gave municipalities the responsibility of maintaining various infrastructures (and offering services): health, education, systems of irrigation, which stripped the responsibility away from the state.\n\nThe reforms and economic restructuring were strongly opposed by certain segments of society, which instigated frequent and sometimes violent protests, particularly in La Paz and the Chapare coca-growing region, from 1994 through 1996. During this time, the umbrella labor-organization of Bolivia, the Central Obrera Boliviana (COB), became increasingly unable to effectively challenge government policy. A teachers' strike in 1995 was defeated because the COB could not marshal the support of many of its members, including construction and factory workers.\n\nIn the 1997 elections, General Hugo Banzer, leader of the Nationalist Democratic Action party (ADN) and former dictator (1971–78), won 22% of the vote, while the MNR candidate won 18%. At the outset of his government, President Banzer launched a policy of using special police-units to eradicate physically the illegal coca of the Chapare region. The MIR of Jaime Paz Zamora remained a coalition-partner throughout the Banzer government, supporting this policy (called the Dignity Plan). The Banzer government basically continued the free-market and privatization-policies of its predecessor. The relatively robust economic growth of the mid-1990s continued until about the third year of its term in office. After that, regional, global and domestic factors contributed to a decline in economic growth. Financial crises in Argentina and Brazil, lower world prices for export commodities, and reduced employment in the coca sector depressed the Bolivian economy. The public also perceived a significant amount of public sector corruption. These factors contributed to increasing social protests during the second half of Banzer's term.\n\nBetween January 1999 and April 2000, large-scale protests erupted in Cochabamba, Bolivia's third largest city, in response to the privatisation of water resources by foreign companies and a subsequent doubling of water prices. On 6 August 2001, Banzer resigned from office after being diagnosed with cancer. He died less than a year later. Vice President Jorge Fernando Quiroga Ramírez completed the final year of his term.\nIn the June 2002 national elections, former President Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada (MNR) placed first with 22.5% of the vote, followed by coca-advocate and native peasant-leader Evo Morales (Movement Toward Socialism, MAS) with 20.9%. A July agreement between the MNR and the fourth-place MIR, which had again been led in the election by former President Jaime Paz Zamora, virtually ensured the election of Sánchez de Lozada in the congressional run-off, and on 6 August he was sworn in for the second time. The MNR platform featured three overarching objectives: economic reactivation (and job creation), anti-corruption, and social inclusion.\n\nIn 2003 the Bolivian gas conflict broke out. On 12 October 2003 the government imposed martial law in El Alto after 16 people were shot by the police and several dozen wounded in violent clashes. Faced with the option of resigning or more bloodshed, Sanchez de Lozada offered his resignation in a letter to an emergency session of Congress. After his resignation was accepted and his vice president, Carlos Mesa, invested, he left on a commercially scheduled flight for the United States.\n\nThe country's internal situation became unfavorable for such political action on the international stage. After a resurgence of gas protests in 2005, Carlos Mesa attempted to resign in January 2005, but his offer was refused by Congress. On 22 March 2005, after weeks of new street protests from organizations accusing Mesa of bowing to U.S. corporate interests, Mesa again offered his resignation to Congress, which was accepted on 10 June. The chief justice of the Supreme Court, Eduardo Rodríguez, was sworn as interim president to succeed the outgoing Carlos Mesa.\n\nThe indigenous population of the Andean region was not able to benefit from government reforms.\n\nEvo Morales won the 2005 presidential election with 53.7% of the votes, an absolute majority, unusual in Bolivian elections. On 1 May 2006, Morales caused controversy when he announced his intent to re-nationalize Bolivian hydrocarbon assets. Fulfilling a campaign promise, on 6 August 2006, Morales opened the Bolivian Constituent Assembly to begin writing a new constitution aimed at giving more power to the indigenous majority.\n\nIn August 2007, more conflicts arose in Sucre, as the city demanded the discussion of the seat of government inside the assembly, hoping the executive and legislative branches could return to the city, but the assembly and the government said this demand was overwhelmingly impractical and politically undesirable. In May 2008, Evo Morales was a signatory to the UNASUR Constitutive Treaty of the Union of South American Nations. In the 2009 national general elections, Evo Morales was re-elected with 64.22% of the vote. His party, Movement for Socialism, also won a two-thirds majority in both houses of the National Congress.\n\nBolivia is located in the central zone of South America, between 57°26'–69°38'W and 9°38'–22°53'S. With an area of , Bolivia is the world's 28th-largest country, and the fifth largest country in South America, extending from the Central Andes through part of the \"Gran Chaco\", Pantanal and as far as the Amazon. The geographic center of the country is the so-called \"Puerto Estrella\" (\"Star Port\") on the Río Grande, in Ñuflo de Chávez Province, Santa Cruz Department.\n\nThe geography of the country exhibits a great variety of terrain and climates. Bolivia has a high level of biodiversity, considered one of the greatest in the world, as well as several ecoregions with ecological sub-units such as the \"Altiplano\", tropical rainforests (including Amazon rainforest), dry valleys, and the \"Chiquitania\", which is a tropical savanna. These areas feature enormous variations in altitude, from an elevation of above sea level in Nevado Sajama to nearly along the Paraguay River. Although a country of great geographic diversity, Bolivia has remained a landlocked country since the War of the Pacific. Puerto Suárez, San Matías and Puerto Quijarro are located in the Bolivian Pantanal.\n\nBolivia can be divided into three physiographic regions:\n\n\nBolivia has three drainage basins:\n\n\nThe geology of Bolivia comprises a variety of different lithologies as well as tectonic and sedimentary environments. On a synoptic scale, geological units coincide with topographical units. Most elementally, the country is divided into a mountainous western area affected by the subduction processes in the Pacific and an eastern lowlands of stable platforms and shields.\n\nThe climate of Bolivia varies drastically from one eco-region to the other, from the tropics in the eastern \"llanos\" to a polar climate in the western Andes. The summers are warm, humid in the east and dry in the west, with rains that often modify temperatures, humidity, winds, atmospheric pressure and evaporation, yielding very different climates in different areas. When the climatological phenomenon known as \"El Niño\" takes place, it causes great alterations in the weather. Winters are very cold in the west, and it snows in the mountain ranges, while in the western regions, windy days are more common. The autumn is dry in the non-tropical regions.\n\nBolivia, with an enormous variety of organisms and ecosystems, is part of the \"Like-Minded Megadiverse Countries\".\n\nBolivia's variable altitudes, ranging from above sea level, allow for a vast biologic diversity. The territory of Bolivia comprises four types of biomes, 32 ecological regions, and 199 ecosystems. Within this geographic area there are several natural parks and reserves such as the Noel Kempff Mercado National Park, the Madidi National Park, the Tunari National Park, the Eduardo Avaroa Andean Fauna National Reserve, and the Kaa-Iya del Gran Chaco National Park and Integrated Management Natural Area, among others.\n\nBolivia boasts over 17,000 species of seed plants, including over 1,200 species of fern, 1,500 species of \"marchantiophyta\" and moss, and at least 800 species of fungus. In addition, there are more than 3,000 species of medicinal plants. Bolivia is considered the place of origin for such species as peppers and chili peppers, peanuts, the common beans, yucca, and several species of palm. Bolivia also naturally produces over 4,000 kinds of potatoes.\n\nBolivia has more than 2,900 animal species, including 398 mammals, over 1,400 birds (about 14% of birds known in the world, being the sixth most diverse country in terms of bird species), 204 amphibians, 277 reptiles, and 635 fish, all fresh water fish as Bolivia is a landlocked country. In addition, there are more than 3,000 types of butterfly, and more than 60 domestic animals.\n\nBolivia has gained global attention for its 'Law of the Rights of Mother Earth', which accords nature the same rights as humans.\n\nBolivia has been governed by democratically elected governments since 1982; prior to that, it was governed by various dictatorships. Presidents Hernán Siles Zuazo (1982–85) and Víctor Paz Estenssoro (1985–89) began a tradition of ceding power peacefully which has continued, although two presidents have stepped down in the face of popular protests: Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada in 2003 and Carlos Mesa in 2005.\n\nBolivia's multiparty democracy has seen a wide variety of parties in the presidency and parliament, although the Revolutionary Nationalist Movement, Nationalist Democratic Action, and the Revolutionary Left Movement predominated from 1985 to 2005. The current president is Evo Morales, the first indigenous Bolivian to serve as head of state. Morales' Movement for Socialism – Political Instrument for the Sovereignty of the Peoples party was the first to win an outright presidential majority in four decades, doing so both in 2005 and 2009.\n\nThe constitution, drafted in 2006–07 and approved in 2009, provides for balanced executive, legislative, judicial, and electoral powers, as well as several levels of autonomy. The traditionally strong executive branch tends to overshadow the Congress, whose role is generally limited to debating and approving legislation initiated by the executive. The judiciary, consisting of the Supreme Court and departmental and lower courts, has long been riddled with corruption and inefficiency. Through revisions to the constitution in 1994, and subsequent laws, the government has initiated potentially far-reaching reforms in the judicial system as well as increasing decentralizing powers to departments, municipalities, and indigenous territories.\n\nThe executive branch is headed by a president and vice president, and consists of a variable number (currently, 20) of government ministries. The president is elected to a five-year term by popular vote, and governs from the Presidential Palace (popularly called the Burnt Palace, \"Palacio Quemado\") in La Paz. In the case that no candidate receives an absolute majority of the popular vote or more than 40% of the vote with an advantage of more than 10% over the second-place finisher, a run-off is to be held among the two candidates most voted.\n\nThe \"Asamblea Legislativa Plurinacional\" (Plurinational Legislative Assembly or National Congress) has two chambers. The \"Cámara de Diputados\" (Chamber of Deputies) has 130 members elected to five-year terms, seventy from single-member districts (\"circunscripciones\"), sixty by proportional representation, and seven by the minority indigenous peoples of seven departments. The \"Cámara de Senadores\" (Chamber of Senators) has 36 members (four per department). Members of the Assembly are elected to five-year terms. The body has its headquarters on the Plaza Murillo in La Paz, but also holds honorary sessions elsewhere in Bolivia. The Vice President serves as titular head of the combined Assembly.\n\nThe judiciary consists of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Tribunal, the Judiciary Council, Agrarian and Environmental Tribunal, and District (departmental) and lower courts. In October 2011, Bolivia held its first judicial elections to choose members of the national courts by popular vote, a reform brought about by Evo Morales.\n\nThe Plurinational Electoral Organ is an independent branch of government which replaced the National Electoral Court in 2010. The branch consists of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal, the nine Departmental Electoral Tribunals, Electoral Judges, the anonymously selected Juries at Election Tables, and Electoral Notaries. Wilfredo Ovando presides over the seven-member Supreme Electoral Tribunal. Its operations are mandated by the Constitution and regulated by the Electoral Regime Law (Law 026, passed 2010). The Organ's first elections were the country's first judicial election in October 2011, and five municipal special elections held in 2011.\n\nBolivia has its constitutionally recognized capital in Sucre, while La Paz is the seat of government. La Plata (now Sucre) was proclaimed provisional capital of the newly independent Alto Perú (later, Bolivia) on 1 July 1826. On 12 July 1839, President José Miguel de Velasco proclaimed a law naming the city as the capital of Bolivia, and renaming it in honor of the revolutionary leader Antonio José de Sucre. The Bolivian seat of government moved to La Paz at the start of the twentieth century, as a consequence of Sucre's relative remoteness from economic activity after the decline of Potosí and its silver industry and of the Liberal Party in the War of 1899.\n\nThe 2009 Constitution assigns the role of national capital to Sucre, not referring to La Paz in the text. In addition to being the constitutional capital, the Supreme Court of Bolivia is located in Sucre, making it the judicial capital. Nonetheless, the Palacio Quemado (the Presidential Palace and seat of Bolivian executive power) is located in La Paz, as are the National Congress and Plurinational Electoral Organ. La Paz thus continues to be the seat of government.\n\nThere are 53 prisons in Bolivia, which incarcerate around 8,700 people . The prisons are managed by the Penitentiary Regime Directorate (). There are 17 prisons in departmental capital cities and 36 provincial prisons.\n\nDespite losing its maritime coast, the so-called Litoral Department, after the War of the Pacific, Bolivia has historically maintained, as a state policy, a maritime claim to that part of Chile; the claim asks for sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean and its maritime space. The issue has also been presented before the Organization of American States; in 1979, the OAS passed the \"426 Resolution\", which declared that the Bolivian problem is a hemispheric problem. On 4 April 1884, a truce was signed with Chile, whereby Chile gave facilities of access to Bolivian products through Antofagasta, and freed the payment of export rights in the port of Arica. In October 1904, the Treaty of Peace and Friendship was signed, and Chile agreed to build a railway between Arica and La Paz, to improve access of Bolivian products to the ports.\n\nThe \"Special Economical Zone for Bolivia in Ilo\" (ZEEBI) is a special economic area of of maritime coast, and a total extension of , called Mar Bolivia (\"Sea Bolivia\"), where Bolivia may maintain a free port near Ilo, Peru under its administration and operation for a period of 99 years starting in 1992; once that time has passed, all the construction and territory revert to the Peruvian government. Since 1964, Bolivia has had its own port facilities in the \"Bolivian Free Port\" in Rosario, Argentina. This port is located on the Paraná River, which is directly connected to the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe dispute with Chile was taken to the International Court of Justice. The court ruled in support of the Chilean position, and declared that although Chile may have held talks about a Bolivian corridor to the sea, the country was not required to actually negotiate one or to surrender its territory.\n\nThe Bolivian military comprises three branches: Ejército (Army), Naval (Navy) and Fuerza Aérea (Air Force). The legal age for voluntary admissions is 18; however, when the numbers are small the government recruits anyone as young as 14. The tour of duty is generally 12 months. The Bolivian government annually spends $130 million on defense.\n\nThe Bolivian army has around 31,500 men. There are six military regions (\"regiones militares\"—RMs) in the army. The army is organized into ten divisions.\n\nAlthough it is landlocked Bolivia keeps a navy. The Bolivian Naval Force (\"Fuerza Naval Boliviana\" in Spanish) is a naval force about 5,000 strong in 2008.\n\nThe Bolivian Air Force ('Fuerza Aérea Boliviana' or 'FAB') has nine air bases, located at La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz, Puerto Suárez, Tarija, Villamontes, Cobija, Riberalta, and Roboré.\n\nBolivia has nine departments—Pando, La Paz, Beni, Oruro, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz, Potosí, Chuquisaca, Tarija.\n\nAccording to what is established by the Bolivian Political Constitution, the Law of Autonomies and Decentralization regulates de procedure for the elaboration of Statutes of Autonomy, the transfer and distribution of direct competences between the central government and the autonomous entities.\n\nThere are four levels of decentralization: Departmental government, constituted by the \"Departmental Assembly\", with rights over the legislation of the department. The governor is chosen by universal suffrage. Municipal government, constituted by a \"Municipal Council\", with rights over the legislation of the municipality. The mayor is chosen by universal suffrage. Regional government, formed by several provinces or municipalities of geographical continuity within a department. It is constituted by a \"Regional Assembly\". Original indigenous government, self-governance of original indigenous people on the ancient territories where they live.\n\nBolivia's estimated 2012 gross domestic product (GDP) totaled $27.43 billion at official exchange rate and $56.14 billion at purchasing power parity. Despite a series of mostly political setbacks, between 2006 and 2009 the Morales administration has spurred growth higher than at any point in the preceding 30 years. The growth was accompanied by a moderate decrease in inequality. A surplus budget of 1.7% (GDP) was obtained by 2012, the government runs surpluses since Morales administration reflecting a prudent economic management.\n\nA major blow to the Bolivian economy came with a drastic fall in the price of tin during the early 1980s, which impacted one of Bolivia's main sources of income and one of its major mining industries. Since 1985, the government of Bolivia has implemented a far-reaching program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform aimed at maintaining price stability, creating conditions for sustained growth, and alleviating scarcity. A major reform of the customs service has significantly improved transparency in this area. Parallel legislative reforms have locked into place market-liberal policies, especially in the hydrocarbon and telecommunication sectors, that have encouraged private investment. Foreign investors are accorded national treatment.\n\nIn April 2000, Hugo Banzer, the former president of Bolivia, signed a contract with Aguas del Tunari, a private consortium, to operate and improve the water supply in Bolivia's third-largest city, Cochabamba. Shortly thereafter, the company tripled the water rates in that city, an action which resulted in protests and rioting among those who could no longer afford clean water. Amidst Bolivia's nationwide economic collapse and growing national unrest over the state of the economy, the Bolivian government was forced to withdraw the water contract.\n\nBolivia has the second largest natural gas reserves in South America. The government has a long-term sales agreement to sell natural gas to Brazil through 2019. The government held a binding referendum in 2005 on the Hydrocarbon Law.\n\nThe US Geological Service estimates that Bolivia has 5.4 million cubic tonnes of lithium, which represent 50%–70% of world reserves. However, to mine for it would involve disturbing the country's salt flats (called Salar de Uyuni), an important natural feature which boosts tourism in the region. The government does not want to destroy this unique natural landscape to meet the rising world demand for lithium. On the other hand, sustainable extraction of lithium is attempted by the government. This project is carried out by the public company \"Recursos Evaporíticos\" subsidiary of COMIBOL.\n\nOnce Bolivia's government depended heavily on foreign assistance to finance development projects and to pay the public staff. At the end of 2002, the government owed $4.5 billion to its foreign creditors, with $1.6 billion of this amount owed to other governments and most of the balance owed to multilateral development banks. Most payments to other governments have been rescheduled on several occasions since 1987 through the Paris Club mechanism. External creditors have been willing to do this because the Bolivian government has generally achieved the monetary and fiscal targets set by IMF programs since 1987, though economic crises have undercut Bolivia's normally good record. However, by 2013 the foreign assistance is just a fraction of the government budget thanks to tax collection mainly from the profitable exports to Brazil and Argentina of natural gas.\n\nThe income from tourism has become increasingly important. Bolivia's tourist industry has grown gradually since about 1990.\n\nThe amount in reserve currencies and gold held by Bolivia's Central Bank advanced from 1.085 billion US dollars in 2000, under Hugo Banzer Suarez's government, to 15.282 billion US dollars in 2014 under Evo Morales' government.\n\nThe General Directorate of Civil Aeronautics (Dirección General de Aeronáutica Civil—DGAC) formerly part of the FAB, administers a civil aeronautics school called the National Institute of Civil Aeronautics (Instituto Nacional de Aeronáutica Civil—INAC), and two commercial air transport services TAM and TAB.\n\nTAM – Transporte Aéreo Militar (the Bolivian Military Airline) is an airline based in La Paz, Bolivia. It is the civilian wing of the 'Fuerza Aérea Boliviana' (the Bolivian Air Force), operating passenger services to remote towns and communities in the North and Northeast of Bolivia. TAM (a.k.a. TAM Group 71) has been a part of the FAB since 1945.\n\nA similar airline serving the Beni Department with small planes is Línea Aérea Amaszonas, using smaller planes than TAM.\n\nAlthough a civil transport airline, TAB – Transportes Aéreos Bolivianos, was created as a subsidiary company of the FAB in 1977. It is subordinate to the Air Transport Management (Gerencia de Transportes Aéreos) and is headed by an FAB general. TAB, a charter heavy cargo airline, links Bolivia with most countries of the Western Hemisphere; its inventory includes a fleet of Hercules C130 aircraft. TAB is headquartered adjacent to El Alto International Airport. TAB flies to Miami and Houston, with a stop in Panama.\n\nThe three largest, and main international airports in Bolivia are El Alto International Airport in La Paz, Viru Viru International Airport in Santa Cruz, and Jorge Wilstermann International Airport in Cochabamba.\n\nBolivia possesses an extensive but aged rail system, all in 1000 mm gauge, consisting of two disconnected networks.\n\nBolivia owns a communications satellite which was offshored/outsourced and launched by China, named Túpac Katari 1. In 2015, it was announced that electrical power advancements include a planned $300 million nuclear reactor developed by the Russian nuclear company Rosatom.\n\nBolivias's drinking water and sanitation coverage has greatly improved since 1990 due to a considerable increase in sectoral investment. However, the country has the continent's lowest coverage levels and services are of low quality. Political and institutional instability have contributed to the weakening of the sector's institutions at the national and local levels.\n\nTwo concessions to foreign private companies in two of the three largest cities – Cochabamba and La Paz/El Alto – were prematurely ended in 2000 and 2006 respectively. The country's second largest city, Santa Cruz de la Sierra, manages its own water and sanitation system relatively successfully by way of cooperatives. The government of Evo Morales intends to strengthen citizen participation within the sector. Increasing coverage requires a substantial increase of investment financing.\n\nAccording to the government the main problems in the sector are low access to sanitation throughout the country; low access to water in rural areas; insufficient and ineffective investments; a low visibility of community service providers; a lack of respect of indigenous customs; \"technical and institutional difficulties in the design and implementation of projects\"; a lack of capacity to operate and maintain infrastructure; an institutional framework that is \"not consistent with the political change in the country\"; \"ambiguities in the social participation schemes\"; a reduction in the quantity and \nquality of water due to climate change; pollution and a lack of integrated water resources management; and the lack of policies and programs for the reuse of wastewater.\n\nOnly 27% of the population has access to improved sanitation, 80 to 88% has access to improved water sources. Coverage in urban areas is bigger than in rural ones.\n\nAccording to the last two censuses carried out by the Bolivian National Statistics Institute \"(Instituto Nacional de Estadística\", INE), the population increased from 8,274,325 (from which 4,123,850 were men and 4,150,475 were women) in 2001 to 10,027,254 in 2012.\n\nIn the last fifty years the Bolivian population has tripled, reaching a population growth rate of 2.25%. The growth of the population in the inter-census periods (1950–1976 and 1976–1992) was approximately 2.05%, while between the last period, 1992–2001, it reached 2.74% annually.\n\nSome 62.43% of Bolivians live in urban areas, while the remaining 37.57% in rural areas. The most part of the population (70%) is concentrated in the departments of La Paz, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba. In the Andean Altiplano region the departments of La Paz and Oruro hold the largest percentage of population, in the valley region the largest percentage is held by the departments of Cochabamba and Chuquisaca, while in the Llanos region by Santa Cruz and Beni. At national level, the population density is 8.49, with variations marked between 0.8 (Pando Department) and 26.2 (Cochabamba Department).\n\nThe largest population center is located in the so-called \"central axis\" and in the Llanos region. Bolivia has a young population. According to the 2011 census, 59% of the population is between 15 and 59 years old, 39% is less than 15 years old. Almost 60% of the population is younger than 25 years of age.\n\nAccording to a genetic study done on Bolivians, average values of Native American, European and African ancestry are 86%, 12.5%, and 1.5%, in individuals from La Paz and 76.8%, 21.4%, and 1.8% in individuals from Chuquisaca; respectively.\n\nThe vast majority of Bolivians are mestizo (with the indigenous component higher than the European one), although the government has not included culltural self-identification \"mestizo\" in the November 2012 census.\nThere are approximately three dozen native groups totaling approximately half of the Bolivian population – the largest proportion of indigenous people in Latin America. Exact numbers vary based on the wording of the ethnicity question and the available response choices. For example, the 2001 census did not provide the racial category \"mestizo\" as a response choice, resulting in a much higher proportion of respondents identifying themselves as belonging to one of the available indigenous ethnicity choices. Mestizos are distributed throughout the entire country and make up 26% of the Bolivian population. Most people assume their \"mestizo\" identity while at the same time identifying themselves with one or more indigenous cultures. A 2018 estimate of racial classification put mestizo (mixed white and Amerindian) at 68%, indigenous at 20%, white at 5%, cholo at 2%, black at 1%, other at 4%, while 2% were unspecified; 44% attributed themselves to some indigenous group, predominantly the linguistic categories of Quechuas or Aymaras. Whites comprised about 14% of the population in 2006, and are usually concentrated in the largest cities: La Paz, Santa Cruz de la Sierra and Cochabamba, but as well in some minor cities like Tarija and Sucre. The ancestry of Whites and the White ancestry of Mestizos lies within the continents of Europe and Middle East, most notably Spain, Italy, Germany, Croatia, Lebanon and Syria. In the Santa Cruz Department, there are several dozen colonies of German-speaking Mennonites from Russia totaling around 40,000 inhabitants ().\n\nAfro-Bolivians, descendants of African slaves who arrived in the time of the Spanish Empire, inhabit the department of La Paz, and are located mainly in the provinces of Nor Yungas and Sud Yungas. Slavery was abolished in Bolivia in 1831. There are also important communities of Japanese (14.000) and Lebanese (12.900).\n\nIndigenous peoples, also called \"originarios\" (\"native\" or \"original\") and less frequently, \"Amerindians\", could be categorized by geographic area, such as Andean, like the Aymaras and Quechuas (who formed the ancient Inca Empire), who are concentrated in the western departments of La Paz, Potosí, Oruro, Cochabamba and Chuquisaca. There also are ethnic populations in the east, composed of the Chiquitano, Chané, Guaraní and Moxos, among others, who inhabit the departments of Santa Cruz, Beni, Tarija and Pando.\n\nThere are small numbers of European citizens from Germany, France, Italy and Portugal, as well as from other American countries, as Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, the United States, Paraguay, Peru, Mexico and Venezuela, among others. There are important Peruvian colonies in La Paz, El Alto and Santa Cruz de la Sierra.\n\nThe Indigenous peoples of Bolivia can be divided into two categories of ethnic groups: the Andeans, who are located in the Andean Altiplano and the valley region; and the lowland groups, who inhabit the warm regions of central and eastern Bolivia, including the valleys of Cochabamba Department, the Amazon Basin areas of northern La Paz Department, and the lowland departments of Beni, Pando, Santa Cruz, and Tarija (including the Gran Chaco region in the southeast of the country). Large numbers of Andean peoples have also migrated to form Quechua, Aymara, and intercultural communities in the lowlands.\n\n\nBolivia has great linguistic diversity as a result of its multiculturalism. The Constitution of Bolivia recognizes 36 official languages besides Spanish: Aymara, Araona, Baure, Bésiro, Canichana, Cavineño, Cayubaba, Chácobo, Chimán, Ese Ejja, Guaraní, Guarasu'we, Guarayu, Itonama, Leco, Machajuyai-Kallawaya, Machineri, Maropa, Mojeño-Ignaciano, Mojeño-Trinitario, Moré, Mosetén, Movima, Pacawara, Puquina, Quechua, Sirionó, Tacana, Tapieté, Toromona, Uru-Chipaya, Weenhayek, Yaminawa, Yuki, Yuracaré, and Zamuco.\n\nSpanish is the most spoken official language in the country, according to the 2001 census; as it is spoken by two-thirds of the population. All legal and official documents issued by the State, including the Constitution, the main private and public institutions, the media, and commercial activities, are in Spanish.\n\nThe main indigenous languages are: Quechua (21.2% of the population in the 2001 census), Aymara (14.6%), Guarani (0.6%) and others (0.4%) including the Moxos in the department of Beni.\n\nPlautdietsch, a German dialect, is spoken by about 70,000 Mennonites in Santa Cruz. Portuguese is spoken mainly in the areas close to Brazil.\n\nBolivia is a constitutionally secular state that guarantees the freedom of religion and the independence of government from religion.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census conducted by the National Institute of Statistics of Bolivia, 78% of the population is Roman Catholic, followed by 19% Protestant, and small number of Bolivians that are Orthodox, and 3% non-religious.\n\nThe Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on the World Christian Database) records that in 2010, 92.5% of Bolivians identified as Christian (of any denomination), 3.1% identified with indigenous religion, 2.2% identified as Bahá'í, 1.9% identified as agnostic, and all other groups constituted 0.1% or less.\n\nMuch of the indigenous population adheres to different traditional beliefs marked by inculturation or syncretisim with Christianity. The cult of Pachamama, or \"Mother Earth\", is notable. The veneration of the Virgin of Copacabana, Virgin of Urkupiña and Virgin of Socavón, is also an important feature. There also are important Aymaran communities near Lake Titicaca that have a strong devotion to James the Apostle. Deities worshiped in Bolivia include Ekeko, the Aymaran god of abundance and prosperity, whose day is celebrated every 24 January, and Tupá, a god of the Guaraní people.\n\nApproximately 67% of Bolivians live in urban areas, among the lowest proportion in South America. Nevertheless, the rate of urbanization is growing steadily, at around 2.5% annually. According to the 2012 census, there are total of 3,158,691 households in Bolivia – an increase of 887,960 from 2001. In 2009, 75.4% of homes were classified as a house, hut, or Pahuichi; 3.3% were apartments; 21.1% were rental residences; and 0.1% were mobile homes. Most of the country's largest cities are located in the highlands of the west and central regions.\n\n<noinclude>\n\nBolivian culture has been heavily influenced by the Quechua, the Aymara, as well as the popular cultures of Latin America as a whole.\n\nThe cultural development is divided into three distinct periods: precolumbian, colonial, and republican. Important archaeological ruins, gold and silver ornaments, stone monuments, ceramics, and weavings remain from several important pre-Columbian cultures. Major ruins include Tiwanaku, El Fuerte de Samaipata, Inkallaqta and Iskanawaya. The country abounds in other sites that are difficult to reach and have seen little archaeological exploration.\n\nThe Spanish brought their own tradition of religious art which, in the hands of local native and mestizo builders and artisans, developed into a rich and distinctive style of architecture, painting, and sculpture known as \"Mestizo Baroque\". The colonial period produced not only the paintings of Pérez de Holguín, Flores, Bitti, and others but also the works of skilled but unknown stonecutters, woodcarvers, goldsmiths, and silversmiths. An important body of Native Baroque religious music of the colonial period was recovered and has been performed internationally to wide acclaim since 1994.\n\nBolivian artists of stature in the 20th century include María Luisa Pacheco, Roberto Mamani Mamani, Alejandro Mario Yllanes, Alfredo Da Silva, and Marina Núñez del Prado.\n\nBolivia has a rich folklore. Its regional folk music is distinctive and varied. The \"devil dances\" at the annual carnival of Oruro are one of the great folkloric events of South America, as is the lesser known carnival at Tarabuco.\nThe best known of the various festivals found in the country is the \"Carnaval de Oruro\", which was among the first 19 \"Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity\", as proclaimed by UNESCO in May 2001.\n\nEntertainment includes football.\n\nIn 2008, following UNESCO standards, Bolivia was declared free of illiteracy, making it the fourth country in South America to attain this status.\n\nBolivia has public and private universities. Among them: Universidad Mayor, Real y Pontificia de San Francisco Xavier de Chuquisaca USFX – Sucre, founded in 1624; Universidad Mayor de San Andrés UMSA – La Paz, founded in 1830; Universidad Mayor de San Simon UMSS – Cochabamba, founded in 1832; Universidad Autónoma Gabriel René Moreno UAGRM – Santa Cruz de la Sierra, founded in 1880; Universidad Técnica de Oruro UTO – Oruro, founded in 1892; and Universidad Autónoma Tomás Frías UATF – Potosi, founded in 1892.\n\nIn 2017, Bolivia is the first country in South America in terms of funds dedicated to public education and is the second in Latin America, after Cuba.\n\nBased on 2013 \"The World Factbook\" estimates, Bolivia is ranked 161st in life expectancy with a number of 68.2 years. Life expectancy for men is 65.4 and for women is 71.1. A study by the United Nations Development Programme and United Nations International Emergency Children's Fund reported over 230 babies died per day in Bolivia through lack of proper care. The majority of the population has no health insurance or access to healthcare. Demographic and Health Surveys has completed five surveys in Bolivia since 1989 on a wide range of topics.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2016, extreme poverty in Bolivia fell from 38.2% to 16.8%. Chronic malnutrition in children under five years of age also went down by 14% and the child mortality rate was reduced by more than 50%, according to World Health Organization.\n\nFootball (Spanish: Fútbol, US English: Soccer) is widespread. The national team is the Bolivia national football team.\n\nRacquetball is the second most popular sport in Bolivia as for the results in the Odesur 2018 Games held in Cochabamba.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41995379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41995379", "title": "Camp Goodwin", "text": "Camp Goodwin\n\nCamp Goodwin, and Fort Goodwin, a historical locale, at an elevation of 2648 feet, located in Graham County, Arizona.\n\nCamp Goodwin, then Fort Goodwin, was constructed in June 1864 by the California Volunteers, of the Union Army in Arizona Territory for a base for prosecuting the 1861-1872 Apache War and protecting settlers in the Upper Gila River region. It was named for Arizona's first territorial governor, John N. Goodwin. The adobe buildings it was constructed with began to crumble in a few years due to poor construction. Additionally the camp was plagued by malaria from mosquitoes in the cienega fed by the nearby spring from which the fort obtained its water. Called Camp Goodwin again from 1866, the camp was abandoned by the Army in March, 1871 due to the illness caused by malaria.\n\nThe camp was subsequently used as a subagency of the San Carlos Apache Indian Reservation until about 1884.\n\nToday the site is located on farmland not far from the ghost town of Geronimo. Nothing remains of the post, the only physical marker is a Bureau of Land Management survey marker which indicates the original site of its flagpole.\n\n"}
{"id": "652573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652573", "title": "Cape Point", "text": "Cape Point\n\nCape Point is a promontory at the southeast corner of the Cape Peninsula, which is a mountainous and scenic landform that runs north-south for about thirty kilometres at the extreme southwestern tip of the African continent in the Republic of South Africa. Table Mountain and the city of Cape Town are close to the northern extremity of the same peninsula. The cape is located at , about 2.3 kilometres (1.4 mi) east and a little north of the Cape of Good Hope on the southwest corner. Although these two rocky capes are very well known, neither cape is actually the southernmost point of the mainland of Africa; that is Cape Agulhas, approximately to the east-southeast. Cape point is closed on Christmas, the Day of Goodwill and New Year’s Day. Opening times are from 6:00-18:00.\n\nThe peak above Cape Point is higher than that above the Cape of Good Hope. The rugged sandstone (Table Mountain sandstone) ridge that rises from Cape Point at sea level develops into two peaks. There is a major peak that dominates the skyline locally but there is also a smaller peak about 100 m (328 ft) further south. The higher peak has the old lighthouse on the top. The Flying Dutchman Funicular runs from a car park to the north up to slightly below the level of the old lighthouse and a short flight of steps leads to a viewing platform around the base of the lighthouse. From the end of the railway a second path leads to the lower peak.\n\nThe new lighthouse is at a lower elevation (87 meters; 285.5 feet above sea level), for two reasons: the old lighthouse, located at (262 meters; 859.6 feet above sea level), could be seen 'too early' by ships rounding the point towards the east, causing them to approach too closely. Secondly, foggy conditions often prevail at the higher levels, making the older lighthouse invisible to shipping. On 18 April 1911, the Portuguese liner \"Lusitania\" was wrecked just south of Cape Point at on Bellows Rock for precisely this reason, prompting the relocation of the lighthouse. \n\nThe new lighthouse, located at , cannot be seen from the West until ships are at a safe distance to the South. The light of the new Cape Point lighthouse is the most powerful on the South African coast, with a range of and an intensity of 10 megacandelas in each flash.\n\nCape Point is situated within the Table Mountain National Park, within a section of the park referred to as Cape of Good Hope. This section covers the whole of the southern tip of the Cape Peninsula and which takes in perhaps 20% of its total area. The Cape of Good Hope section of the park is generally wild, unspoiled and undeveloped and is an important haven for seabirds. The vegetation at Cape Point consists primarily of Peninsula Sandstone Fynbos.\n\nCape Point is often mistakenly claimed to be the place where the cold Benguela Current of the Atlantic Ocean and the warm Agulhas Current of the Indian Ocean collide. In fact, the meeting point fluctuates along the southern and southwestern Cape coast, usually occurring between Cape Agulhas and Cape Point. The two intermingling currents help to create the micro-climate of Cape Town and its environs. Contrary to popular mythology, the meeting point of the currents produces no obvious visual effect; there is no \"line in the ocean\" where the sea changes colour or looks different in some way. There are, however, strong and dangerous swells, tides and localized currents around the point and in adjacent waters. These troubled seas have witnessed countless maritime disasters in the centuries since ships first sailed here. \n\nFishing is good along the coast but the unpredictable swells make angling from the rocks very dangerous. Over the years scores of fishermen have been swept to their deaths from the rocky platforms by freak waves. False Bay, which opens to the east and north of Cape Point, is the location of the well-known naval port of Simon's Town. The bay is also famous – or infamous – for its great white sharks, which hunt the Cape fur seals that live in the area.\n\nCape Point is the site of one of the Global Atmosphere Watch's atmospheric research stations. In the early years of the 20th century icebergs from Antarctica were occasionally sighted from Cape Point. There have been no authentic recent sightings of ice, which some climatologists and experts have attributed to global warming.\n"}
{"id": "1040165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1040165", "title": "Celts (modern)", "text": "Celts (modern)\n\nThe modern Celts (, see pronunciation of \"Celt\") are a related group of ethnicities who share similar Celtic languages, cultures and artistic histories, and who live in or descend from one of the regions on the western extremities of Europe populated by the Celts.\n\nA modern Celtic identity emerged in Western Europe following the identification of the native peoples of the Atlantic fringe as Celts by Edward Lhuyd in the 18th century. Lhuyd and others equated the Celts described by Greco-Roman writers with the pre-Roman peoples of France, Great Britain and Ireland. They categorised the ancient Irish and British languages as Celtic languages. The descendants of these ancient languages are the Brittonic (Breton, Cornish and Welsh variants) and Gaelic (Irish, Manx and Scottish variants) languages, and the people who speak them are considered modern Celts. \n\nThe concept of modern Celtic identity evolved during the course of the 19th century into the Celtic Revival. By the late 19th century, it often took the form of ethnic nationalism, particularly within the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, where the Irish Home Rule Movement resulted in the secession of the Irish Free State, in 1922. There were also significant Welsh, Scottish and Breton nationalist movements, giving rise to the concept of Celtic nations. After World War II, the focus of the Celtic movement shifted to linguistic revival and protectionism, e.g. with the foundation of the Celtic League in 1961, dedicated to preserving the surviving Celtic languages.\n\nThe Celtic revival also led to the emergence of musical and artistic styles identified as Celtic. Music typically drew on folk traditions within the Celtic nations. Art drew on decorative styles associated with the ancient Celts and with early medieval Celtic Christianity, along with folk-styles. Cultural events to promote \"inter-Celtic\" cultural exchange also emerged.\n\nIn the late 20th century some authors criticised the idea of modern Celtic identity, usually by downplaying the value of the linguistic component in defining culture and cultural connection, sometimes also arguing that there never was a common Celtic culture, even in ancient times. These authors usually opposed language preservation efforts. Malcolm Chapman's 1992 book \"The Celts: The Construction of a Myth\" led to what the archaeologist, Barry Cunliffe has called a \"politically correct disdain for the use of 'Celt'\"\n\nTraditionally, the essential defining criterion of Celticity is seen as \"peoples and countries that do, or once did, use Celtic languages\" and it is asserted that an index of connectedness to the Celtic languages has to be borne in mind before branching out into other cultural domains. Another approach to defining \"the Celts\" is the contemporary inclusive and associative definition used by Vincent and Ruth Megaw (1996) and Raimund Karl (2010) that a Celt is someone who uses a Celtic language or produces or uses a distinctive Celtic cultural expression (such as art or music) or has been referred to as a Celt in historical materials or has identified themselves or been identified by others as a Celt or has a demonstrated descent from the Celts (such as family history or DNA ancestry).\n\nSince the Enlightenment, the term \"Celtic\" has been applied to a wide variety of peoples and cultural traits present and past. Today, \"Celtic\" is often used to describe people of the Celtic nations (the Bretons, the Cornish, the Irish, the Manx, the Scots and the Welsh) and their respective cultures and languages. Except for the Bretons (if discounting Norman & Channel Islander connections), all groups mentioned have been subject to strong Anglicisation since the Early Modern period, and hence are also described as participating in an Anglo-Celtic macro-culture. By the same token, the Bretons have been subject to strong Frenchification since the Early Modern period, and can similarly be described as participating in a Franco-Celtic macro-culture.\n\nLess common is the assumption of \"Celticity\" for European cultures deriving from Continental Celtic roots (Gauls or Celtiberians). These were either Romanised or Germanised much earlier, before the Early Middle Ages. Nevertheless, \"Celtic\" origins are many times implied for continental groups such as the Asturians, Galicians, Portuguese, Swiss, Northern Italians, Belgians or Austrians. The names of Belgium and the Aquitaine hark back to \"Gallia Belgica\" and \"Gallia Aquitania\", respectively, in turn named for the Belgae and the Aquitani. The Latin name of the Swiss Confederacy, \"Confoederatio Helvetica\", harks back to the Helvetii, the name of Galicia to the Gallaeci and the Auvergne of France to the Averni.\n\n'Celt' has been adopted as a label of self-identification by a variety of peoples at different times. 'Celticity' can refer to the inferred links between them.\n\nDuring the 19th century, French nationalists gave a privileged significance to their descent from the Gauls. The struggles of Vercingetorix were portrayed as a forerunner of the 19th-century struggles in defence of French nationalism, including the wars of both Napoleons (Napoleon I of France and Napoleon III of France). Basic French history textbooks emphasised the ways in which Gauls (\"Nos ancêtres les Gaulois...\", 'our ancestors the Gauls') could be seen as an example of cultural assimilation. In the late Middle Ages, some French writers believed (incorrectly) that their language was primarily Celtic, rather than Latin. A similar use of \"Celticity\" for 19th-century nationalism was made in Switzerland, when the Swiss were seen to originate in the Celtic tribe of the Helvetii, a link still found in the official Latin name of Switzerland, \"Confœderatio Helvetica\", the source of the nation code CH and the name used on postage stamps (Helvetia).\n\nBefore the advance of Indo-European studies, philologists established that there was a relationship between the Goidelic and Brythonic languages, as well as a relationship between these languages and the extinct Celtic languages such as Gaulish, spoken in classical times. The terms Goidelic and Brythonic were first used to describe the two Celtic language families by Edward Lhuyd in his 1707 study and, according to the National Museum Wales, during that century \"people who spoke Celtic languages were seen as Celts.\"\n\nAt the same time, there was also a tendency to play up alternative heritages in the British Isles at certain times. For example, in the Isle of Man, in the Victorian era, the \"Viking\" heritage was emphasised, and in Scotland, both Norse and Anglo-Saxon heritage was emphasised.\n\nA romantic image of the Celt as noble savage was cultivated by the early William Butler Yeats, Lady Gregory, Lady Charlotte Guest, Lady Llanover, James Macpherson, Chateaubriand, Théodore Hersart de la Villemarqué and the many others influenced by them. This image coloured not only the English perception of their neighbours on the so-called \"Celtic fringe\" (compare the stage Irishman), but also Irish nationalism and its analogues in the other Celtic-speaking countries. Among the enduring products of this resurgence of interest in a romantic, pre-industrial, brooding, mystical Celticity are Gorseddau, the revival of the Cornish language, and the revival of the Gaelic games.\n\nThe \"modern Celtic\" groups' distinctiveness as \"national\", as opposed to regional, minorities has been periodically recognised by major British newspapers. For example, a \"Guardian\" editorial in 1990 pointed to these differences, and said that they should be constitutionally recognised:\n\"Smaller minorities also have equally proud visions of themselves as irreducibly Welsh, Irish, Manx or Cornish. These identities are \"distinctly national\" in ways which \"proud people from Yorkshire\", much less proud people from Berkshire will never know. Any new constitutional settlement \"which ignores these factors\" will be built on uneven ground.\"\n\nThe Republic of Ireland, on surpassing Britain's GDP per capita in the 1990s for the first time, was given the moniker \"Celtic tiger\". Thanks in part to campaigning on the part of Cornish regionalists, Cornwall was able to obtain Objective One funding from the European Union. Scotland and Wales obtained agencies like the Welsh Development Agency, and Scottish and Welsh Nationalists have recently supported the institution of the Scottish Parliament and National Assembly for Wales. More broadly, distinct identities in opposition to that of the metropolitan capitals have been forged and taken strong root.\n\nThese latter evolutions have proceeded hand in hand with the growth of a pan-Celtic or inter-Celtic dimension, seen in many organisations and festivals operating across various Celtic countries. Celtic studies departments at many universities in Europe and beyond, have studied the various ancient and modern Celtic languages and associated history and folklore under one roof.\n\nSome of the most vibrant aspects of modern Celtic culture are music, song and festivals. Under the \"Music\", \"Festivals\" and \"Dance\" sections below, the richness of these aspects that have captured the world's attention are outlined.\n\nSports such as Hurling, Gaelic Football and Shinty are seen as being \"Celtic\".\n\nThe USA has also taken part in discussions of modern Celticity. For example, Virginia Senator James H. Webb, in his 2004 book \"Born Fighting: How the Scots-Irish Shaped America\", controversially asserts that the early \"pioneering\" immigrants to North America were of Scots-Irish origins. He goes on to argue that their distinct \"Celtic traits\" (loyalty to kin, mistrust of governmental authority, and military readiness), in contrast to the \"Anglo-Saxon\" settlers, helped construct the modern \"American identity\". Irish Americans also played an important role in the shaping of 19th-century Irish republicanism through the Fenian movement and the development of view that the Great Hunger was a British atrocity.\n\nIn 1996, Dr Ruth Megaw and Emeritus Professor Vincent Megaw of Flinders University in the \"Antiquity\" article \"Ancient Celts and modern ethnicity\" examined \"ethnic identity\" particularly in relation to \"Celtic identity\" in arguing against critics seemingly motivated by an English nationalist agenda opposed to further integration with Europe who saw modern Celtic identity as a threat.\n\nIn 1998, Dr Simon James of the University of Leicester in the \"Antiquity\" article \"Celts, politics and motivation in archaeology\" replied to Ruth and Vincent Megaw's article questioning the suitability of the term \"Celtic\" in the historic sense. The core of his argument was that the Iron Age peoples of Britain should be considered not as generic Celts, but as a mosaic of different societies, each with their own traditions and histories.\nLater in 1998, this line of reasoning came under criticism, being labelled an intellectual extension of modern British cultural colonialism, as well as for simplifying the anthropological correlation between material culture and ethnicity. Ruth and Vincent Megaw in the Antiquity article \"The Mechanism of (Celtic) Dreams?': A Partial Response to Our Critics.\" attacked 'Celt-sceptics' for being motivated by English nationalism or anxieties about the decline of British imperial power.\n\nSimon James, in 1998, wrote a response arguing that the rejection of a Celtic past was not 'nationalist' but partly due to archaeological evidence, and usually by a post-colonial and multi-cultural agenda with recognition that Britain has always been home to multiple identities.\n\nRecently the Insular Celts have increasingly been seen as part of an Atlantic trading-networked culture speaking Celtic languages of the Atlantic Bronze Age and probably earlier.\n\nIn 2003, Professor John Collis of the University of Sheffield wrote a book titled \"The Celts: Origins, Myths and Invention\", itself criticised in 2004 by Ruth and Vincent Megaw in \"Antiquity\".\n\nSix nations tend to be most associated with a modern Celtic identity, and are considered 'the Celtic nations'.\n\nIt is these six nations that (alone) are considered Celtic by the Celtic League and the Celtic Congress amongst others. These organisations ascribe to a definition of Celticity based mainly upon language. In the aforementioned six regions, Celtic languages have survived and continue to be used to varying degrees in Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Isle of Man, Cornwall and Brittany. There are also Celtic nomads: Irish Travellers called \"Pavee\" that speak a language called Shelta that is a creole of Irish Gaelic and other languages and Indigenous Highland Scottish Travellers called \"Tinkers\" who speak a language called Beurla Reagaird that is an acrolect of Scottish Gaelic.\n\nA number of activists on behalf of other regions/nations have also sought recognition as modern Celts, reflecting the wide diffusion of ancient Celts across Europe. Of these, the most prominent are Galicia / N. Portugal, Asturias and Cantabria.\n\nA Celtic language did not survive in Galicia / Northern Portugal (together Gallaecia), Asturias nor Cantabria, and as such they fall outside of the litmus test used by the Celtic League, and the Celtic Congress. Nevertheless, many organisations organised around Celticity consider that Galicia / Northern Portugal (Douro, Minho and Tras-os-Montes) and Asturias \"can claim a Celtic cultural or historic heritage\". These claims to Celticity are rooted in the long historical existence of Celts in these regions and ethnic connections to other Atlantic Celtic peoples (see Celtiberians, Celtici and Castro culture). In 2009, the Gallaic Revival Movement, sponsored by the Liga Celtiga Galaica (the Galician Celtic League), claimed to be reconstructing the Q-Celtic Gallaic language based on the \"Atebivota Dictionary\" and \"Old Celtic Dictionary\" compiled by Vincent F. Pintado.\n\nElements of Celtic music, dance, and folklore can be found within England (e.g. Yan Tan Tethera, Well dressing, Halloween), and the Cumbric language survived until the collapse of the Kingdom of Strathclyde in about 1018. England as a whole comprises many distinct regions, and some of these regions, such as Cumbria, Lancashire, and Western Yorkshire can claim more Celtic heritage than others. In 2009, it was claimed that revival of the Cumbric language was being attempted in the Cumberland area of England, however the idea that \"Cumbric\" was separate from Old Welsh has been criticised as stemming from the difficulty that many English historians have with accepting Old Welsh as the language once spoken all over England. It was suggested by Colin Lewis in Carn magazine that revivalists in the north of England use Modern Welsh to enable use of Welsh's existing rich cultural basis rather than having to \"reinvent the wheel\" in much the same way as has been done successfully in Derbyshire, another area where elements of Celtic culture survive.\n\nSimilarly, in France outside of Brittany, in the Auvergne (province) chants are sung around bonfires remembering a Celtic god. There are also modern attempts to revive the polytheistic religion of Gauls.\n\nA profound interest in genealogy and family history is noted as a feature of the culture of the Celtic nations and regions and people with a Celtic heritage. People in traditional Celtic areas can recite their genealogy back though the generations as history, moving rhythmically from one name to another using only Christian name as illustrated by lyrics of the Runrig song Sìol Ghoraidh \"The Genealogy of Goraidh\".\n\nThe disease, hereditary Haemochromatosis, has by far its highest prevalence rate among people of Celtic ancestry. Another trait far more prevalent among people of Celtic ancestry is red hair, with 46% of Irish and at least 36% of Highland Scots being carriers of red-head variants of the MC1R gene, possibly an adaptation to the cloudy weather of the areas where they live.\n\nAlthough they are not usually considered a Celtic nation, the Faroe Islands has a population with a large Celtic heritage in genetic terms. Recent DNA analyses have revealed that Y chromosomes, tracing male descent, are 87% Scandinavian., whereas the mitochondrial DNA, tracing female descent, is 84% Celtic. The same can be said about Icelanders. The founder population of Iceland came from Ireland, Scotland, and Scandinavia: studies of mitochondrial DNA and Y-chromosomes indicate that 62% of Icelanders' matrilineal ancestry derives from Scotland and Ireland (with most of the rest being from Scandinavia), while 75% of their patrilineal ancestry derives from Scandinavia (with most of the rest being from the Irish and British Isles). In addition, there are some areas of the accepted Celtic countries whose population are mostly not of Celtic heritage: for example, the Orkney and Shetland Islands in Scotland have a population of mostly Nordic descent.\n\nA significant portion of the populations of the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand is composed of people whose ancestors were from one of the \"Celtic nations\". This concerns the Irish diaspora most significantly (see also Irish American), but to a lesser extent also the Welsh diaspora and the Cornish diaspora.\n\nThere are three areas outside Europe with communities of Celtic language speakers:\n\nThe most common mother-tongue amongst the Fathers of Confederation which saw the formation of Canada was Gaelic.\nThere is a movement in Cape Breton for a separate province in Canada, as espoused by the Cape Breton Labour Party and others.\n\nIn some former British colonies, or particular regions within them, the term Anglo-Celtic has emerged as a descriptor of an ethnic grouping. In particular, Anglo-Celtic Australian is a term comprising about 80% of the population.\n\nThe claim that distinctly Celtic styles of music exist was made during the nineteenth century, and was associated with the revival of folk traditions and pan-Celtic ideology. The Welsh anthem \"Hen Wlad Fy Nhadau\" was adopted as a pan-Celtic anthem. Though there are links between Scots Gaelic and Irish Gaelic folk musics, very different musical traditions existed in Wales and Brittany. Nevertheless, Gaelic styles were adopted as typically Celtic even by Breton revivalists such as Paul Ladmirault.\nCelticism came to be associated with the bagpipe and the harp. The harp is considered to be the national instrument of Wales and is used to accompany penillion singing (or cerdd dant) where the harpist plays a melody and the singer sings in counterpoint to it. The roots revival, applied to Celtic music, has brought much inter-Celtic cross-fertilisation, as, for instance, the revival by Welsh musicians of the use of the mediaeval Welsh bagpipe under the influence of the Breton \"binioù\", Irish \"uillean\" pipes and famous Scottish pipes, or the Scots have revived the \"bodhran\" from Irish influence. Charles le Goffic introduced the Scottish Highland pipes to Brittany.\n\nUnaccompanied or A cappella styles of singing are performed across the modern Celtic world due to the folk music revival, popularity of Celtic choirs, world music, scat singing and hip hop rapping in Celtic languages. Traditional rhythmic styles used to accompany dancing and now performed are Puirt a beul from Scotland, Ireland, and Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia, Sean-nós song from Ireland and Kan ha diskan from Brittany. Other traditional unaccompanied styles sung currently are Waulking song and Psalm singing or Lining out both from Scotland.\n\nThe emergence of folk-rock led to the creation of a popular music genre labelled Celtic music which \"frequently involves the blending of traditional and modern forms, e.g. the Celtic-punk of The Pogues, the ambient music of Enya ... the Celtic-rock of Runrig, Rawlins Cross and Horslips.\" Pan-Celtic music festivals were established, notably the Festival Interceltique de Lorient founded in 1971, which has occurred annually since.\n\nThe Scottish Mod and Irish Fleadh Cheoil (and Gaelic Céilidh) are seen as an equivalent to the Breton Fest Noz, Cornish Troyl and Welsh Eisteddfod.\n\nThe Celtic Media Festival is an annual 3 day event that promotes the languages and cultures of the Celtic Nations and Regions in media. This festival takes place in a different Celtic nation every year and has been running since 1980.\n\nThe birthdays of the most important Celtic Saints of Celtic Christianity for each Celtic nation have become the focus for festivals, feasts and marches: Ireland – Saint Patrick's Day, Wales – Saint David's Day, Scotland – Saint Andrew's Day, Cornwall – Saint Piran's Day, Isle of Man – St Maughold's Feast Day and Brittany – Fete de la St-Yves and Grand Pardon of Sainte-Anne-d'Auray Pilgrimage.\nAttitudes and customs associated with the routine of the year's work, religious beliefs and practices survived the coming of Christianity in the conservative rural areas of much of the Celtic countries. All over these lands there were sacred places which had earned their status in pre-Christian times and which had only been gingerly adopted by the Christian church and given a garnish of Christian names or dedications, hills, stones, and especially wells which can still be seen festooned with rags in observance of an old ritual.\n\nCertain days in the year were marked as festivals, and time was counted forward and backwards from them without reference to the ordinary calendar. In her fine study of the festival of the beginning of harvest, in Irish \"Lughnasa\", Máire MacNeill has demonstrated the continuity between the myth known from the early Middle Ages and the customs which survive to our own day. Lughnasa, called Calan Awst in Welsh, is a summer feast and was dedicated to the god Lug. Of great interest is the use in the Coligny calendar of the word \"Saman\", a word that is still in use in Gaelic refer to Hallowe'en (evening of the saints), an important day and night and feast among the Celts (in Welsh it is called Calan Gaeaf). In Gaelic folklore, it was considered a particularly dangerous time, when magical spirits wandered through the land, particularly at nightfall. The other important feast days that also continued to be celebrated under Christian guise, but often with a pagan spirit were Imbolc (Gŵyl Fair y Canhwyllau in Welsh), the start of lambing, now the feast day of St Brigit and Beltane, the spring feast, now May Day (Calan Mai in Welsh).\n\nIn their pilgrimages the people combined the celebration of a holy place and a holy day. Pilgrimages are still an important feature of country life, particularly in Ireland, Brittany and Galicia. The most impressive pilgrimages include Croagh Patrick on the west coast of Ireland on the last Sunday in July (the beginning of harvest) and Santiago de Compostela in Galicia. The inspiration for famous Celtic singer and harpist Loreena McKennitt's million-selling CD \"The Mask and the Mirror\" came in part from a visit to Galicia and in particular Santiago de Compostela. Some of her songs are about Celtic feast days such as \"All Souls Night\" about Samhain on \"The Visit\" CD which featured in the erotic thriller film Jade starring David Caruso and \"Huron Beltane Fire Dance\" on the Parallel Dreams CD.\n\nTo signal the coming of summer and the return of real warmth, on Beltane (\"Bel's Fire\"), the May Day festival time, dances such as the 'Obby 'Oss dance festival at Padstow in Cornwall are held with the maypole as its focus point. The celebrations are tied to the promotion of fertility and a fruitful growing season with the 'Obby 'Oss dancing to the music through streets decked out in flowers, and sycamore, ash and maple boughs. Shortly after on 8 May, the ancient rites of Spring are celebrated with the Furry Dance procession to an ancient tune made famous in the song \"The Floral Dance\" through the streets of nearby Helston together with the mystery play Hal an Tow. Fertility festivals like this used to be celebrated all over Britain.\n\nIn the early 1980s seven-time world champion step-dancer, Michael Flatley toured the world with The Chieftains and performed five solo dances (including a triple spin) at Carnegie Hall, New York, in a defining moment that led more than a decade later to a show at the Eurovision Song Contest in Dublin that soon developed into the Irish dance extravaganza the world came to know as Riverdance Jean Butler, one of the original leads, also worked with The Chieftains. Flatley later put up his own show, Lord of the Dance. The spectacular success of both shows can certainly take the credit for the revitalised Celtomania of the last half of the 1990s.\n\nRevival of Celtic art has been seen in the Celtic jewellery that revived ancient traditions based on the museum pieces that archaeologists had recovered. An example is the Claddagh ring produced in Galway since at least 1700, but popularised in the 1840s.\n\nTextile craft industries based on Celtic fisher designs such as Aran jumpers were developed in the early 1900s by enterprising island women to earn income.\n\nFollowing the authoritative publications on Celtic Art of the Hallstatt and La Tene periods by Joseph Déchelette (1908-1914) and Paul Jacobsthal (1944), Scottish artist George Bain popularized the revival of Celtic Art with his bestselling book \"Celtic Art: The Methods of Construction\" first published in 1951. Irish artist and writer Jim Fitzpatrick started to hold popular attention from the mid-1970s adopting Irish mythology in comic strip form in his series of books and posters \"Nuada of the Silver Arm\". From the 1980s, public fascination with Celtic Art spawned a small industry in Celtic art books and reinterpretations of ancient Celtic art works, such as the works of Welsh artist Courtney Davies.\n\nSimilarly, here has been a rebirth of interest in fantasy fiction based on Celtic themes inspired by history and the vast body of Celtic myths and legends.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "554861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=554861", "title": "Coastal plain", "text": "Coastal plain\n\nA coastal plain is flat, low-lying land adjacent to a sea coast. One of the largest coastal plains is located in southeastern United States. The Gulf Coastal Plain of North America extends northwards from the Gulf of Mexico along the Lower Mississippi River to the Ohio River, which is a distance of about .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3258254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3258254", "title": "Donji grad, Zagreb", "text": "Donji grad, Zagreb\n\nDonji grad (, \"Lower Town\") is one of the 17 city districts of Zagreb, the capital of Croatia. It is located in the central part of the city and has 37,024 inhabitants (as of 2011). The official name of the district is rarely used, for it is dubbed \"centar\" (center) by most Zagreb residents even though \"centar\" encompasses some southern parts of district Gornji Grad-Medveščak.\n\n"}
{"id": "27206776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27206776", "title": "Dot distribution map", "text": "Dot distribution map\n\nA dot distribution map, or dot density map, is a map type that uses a dot symbol to show the presence of a feature or a phenomenon. Dot maps rely on a visual scatter to show spatial pattern.\n\nIn a one-to-one dot map, each dot represents one single recording of a phenomenon. Because the location of the dot corresponds to only one piece of data, care must be taken to ensure that the dot is represented in its correct spatial location. Inaccuracies in the location of the dot can misrepresent the data being mapped. Various methods exist for determining the exact spatial location of a single point, including geocoding.\n\nIn a one-to-many, or dot-density map, each dot on the map represents more than one of the phenomena being mapped. The number of data represented by each dot is determined by the map author and may be the product of data availability. Some data, such as the addresses of cancer patients, may not be available for mapping due to restrictions on access to individuals' medical records.\n\nIn one-to-many dot distribution maps, the reader must be careful not to interpret the dots as actual locations, as the dots represent aggregate data and are often arbitrarily placed on a map. Methods of dot placement include by areal unit centroid, random dispersement, and uniform (evenly spaced) placement, among others.\n\nThe first dot distribution map was created by a Franciscan monk, Armand Joseph Frère de Montizon (1788 - ????). It is a relatively simple map of population by département (administrative district) in France and is one of the first known examples of a demographic map for the country. Each dot represents 10,000 individuals. The dots are spaced in even rows, the distance between which determined by the population of the department. A table in the map lists the departments by name, population, and prefectural city. The departments were numbered on the map to correspond to the table. The regular spacing of the dots in the map produces a visual display of population density, as higher population levels within an administrative border exhibit a closer, denser pattern of dots. Since the dots are evenly spaced, it is evident that they do not represent the actual locations of where people live within a department. This is an example of an ecological fallacy, where a value for an area generalizes all within that area to exhibit that value.\n\nAlthough Montizon's map was the first thematic dot map published, it did not garner the author fame. Instead, his innovation had no effect on practice for nearly 30 years until the dot distribution map was \"reinvented\" for map by a Swedish Army officer, published in 1859. This map was authored by Thure Alexander von Mentzer and shows the population distribution for the Scandinavian region. No known reproductions of this map exist.\n\nDisplay of discrete data in the form of points in a map can provide convincing evidence related to medical geography. During the mid-1850s, cholera was a major concern. When a large outbreak occurred in London in 1854, Dr. John Snow created a dot distribution map that settled a debate between two schools of thought: that cholera is transmitted not through the inhalation of infected air, but through the ingestion of contaminated water or food.\n\nSnow's map of the 1854 Broad Street cholera outbreak in London was simple and effective in its design. The base map is a simple road network, with few buildings named or depicted. Study area is outlined along the relevant road centerlines. Water pumps around the neighborhood are symbolized with points and bold, uppercase labels. Cholera deaths are depicted along the road network in their correct locations by address, with quantities measured by parallel tick marks stacked next to the road. The symbology, while simple, is effective for a study of fatal disease. The symbology of the cholera deaths is reminiscent of large Plague events, where bodies are stacked next to the roadway for disposal. However, Snow's work is derivative of Thomas Shapter's work in Exeter, Devon.\n\nThe map showed that a high number of deaths were occurring near a water pump on Broad Street at Cambridge Street. Snow petitioned the local authorities to remove the pump's handle, which caused dramatic decreases in cholera cases for the immediate area. The map helped the germ theory of disease transmission supplant miasma theory as the widely accepted view.\n\nDot maps are advantageous when mapping phenomena that change smoothly over a space, as the dot maps will visually match the phenomena.\n\nDot distribution maps also have disadvantages. One such disadvantage is that the actual dot placement may be random. That is, there may be no actual phenomenon where the dots are located. Second, the subjective nature of the dot size and spacing could give the map a biased view. Inappropriately sized or spaced dots can skew or distort the message a map attempts to communicate. If the dots are too numerous, it may be difficult for the reader to count the dots. This can cause the map to be ineffective in communicating its message.\n\nSolutions to problems in dot maps can be found through the combination of remotely sensed data. Satellite imagery showing lights at night can give good indication of population density. With such information, clustering of dots to relevant areas could possibly be applied to analyses. Data from the Oak Ridge National Laboratory's Landscan project is commonly used in this emerging technique.\n\nA large portion of the new maps appearing today are generated not through government agencies or geographical societies and associations, but by common individuals from all walks of life. Users of such virtual globe services as Google Earth constantly create new thematic maps quickly and easily. Such services offer a base platform upon which users can display layers as they choose, or even add their own data to the display.\n\nOne example was created on April 21, 2009 by Pittsburgh biochemist Harry Niman. The map shows where the 2009 H1N1 swine flu virus was spreading at the time. Despite the fact that the data shown was not backed by any official agency, the author's creation had \"gone viral\", surpassing 290,000 web views and 3,000 comments within nine days of its being published online.\n\nEmerging technology is increasingly making mapping more mobile. Dot distribution maps, through their simple and effective displays, are becoming the standard for such on-the-fly mapping services.\n\nStarting in March 2004, Seth Anthony created a project, called the Dot Project, to create red dot maps for Rambot-created Wikipedia articles.\n"}
{"id": "57695927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57695927", "title": "Geology of Zambia", "text": "Geology of Zambia\n\nThe geology of Zambia formed beginning in the Proterozoic eon of the Precambrian. The igneous and metamorphic basement rocks tend to be highly-metamorphosed and may have formed earlier in the Archean, but heat and pressure has destroyed evidence of earlier conditions. Major sedimentary and metamorphic groups formed in the mid-Proterozoic, followed by a series of glaciations in the Neoproterozoic and much of the Paleozoic which deposited glacial conglomerate as well as other sediments to form the Katanga Supergroup and rift-related Karoo Supergroup. Basalt eruptions blanketed the Karoo Supergroup in the Mesozoic and Zambia shifted to coal and sandstone formation. Geologically recent windblown sands from the Kalahari Desert and alluvial deposits near rivers play an important role in the modern surficial geology of Zambia. The country has extensive natural resources, particularly copper, but also cobalt, emeralds, other gemstones, uranium and coal.\n\nThe oldest rocks in Zambia are part of the crystalline Precambrian basement complex, outcropping in the east and as the structurally complex Lufubu System in the Copperbelt. The granite, gneiss, migmatite, schist, amphibolite, charnockite, granulite, khondalite, phyllite, limestone and metaquartzite basement rocks date to the Paleoproterozoic. Due to extensive metamorphism and deformation, they were altered from older rocks, obscuring the geologic history of the region. Additionally, the basement rocks are intruded by other granites, syenite, dolerite, gabbro, rhyolite, andesite, metavolcanic and ultrabasic rocks. Although primarily exposed in the north and east, dome outcrops of basement rock exist at other locations in the country. \n\nA one billion year Proterozoic unconformity separates the basement rock from the conglomerate, quartzite, schists, iron-rich sandstones and mudstones of the Muva Supergroup.The supergroup is intruded by carbonatite, dolerite, granite, granite porphyry, lamprophyre, norite, pegmatite and other igneous rock types. A rhyolite porphyritic belt, formed at the same time as the Muva Supergroup extends along the eastern bank of the Luapula River, between Lake Tanganyika and Lake Mweru. \n\nIn the Neoproterozoic, the Katanga Supergroup deposited conglomerate, shale, argillite, quartzite, arkose, greywacke, dolomite and aeolian sandstones unconformably atop both the Muva Supergroup and Precambrian basement rocks. \n\nThe deposition of the Katanga Supergroup continued into the Cambrian, in parallel with the rapid expansion of multi-cellular life. Geologists divide the supergroup into the Roan Group, Mwasha Group and Kundelungu Group in the Copperbelt, and simply into upper and lower units elsewhere. The Roan Group hosts much of the copper in the Copperbelt as chalcopyrite, chalcocite, bornite, malachite and azurite, in shale, sandstone, dolomite and quartzite associated with the margins of the Kafue syncline. \n\nThe Kundelungu Group dolomites, limestones and carbonaceous shales unconformably overly the Mwasha Group shale, argillite and interbedded quartzites. The lower unit of the Kundelungu Group is a conglomerate formed from glacial sediments, potentially related to the Hirnantian glaciation in the Ordovician, as Zambia, within the supercontinent Gondwana drifted close to the South Pole. \n\nIn the mid-Paleozoic, a large rift valley formed across southern Gondwana, spanning much of what is now southern Africa and southern South America. The Karoo Supergroup, the most widespread stratigraphic unit in southern Africa deposited in the rift. In Zambia, the Karoo Supergroup is represented by outcrops in major rift block valleys, in the east and south, such as the Luangwa, Lukusashi, Lunsemfwa, Rufunsa and mid-Zambezi rivers. Because glaciations continued throughout much of the Paleozoic, into the Permian, in Gondwana, the bottom sequence of Karoo Supergroup rocks is a tillite that appears to be glacially produced. Ascending units includes sandstones and the Gwembe Coal Formation, mudstones and additional sandstones. \n\nDeposition of the Karoo Supergroup continued into the Mesozoic, with the sequence capped by basalt lava flows from the Jurassic. Today, the basalt is exposed on the walls of Batoka Gorge, below Victoria Falls. \n\nThe Karoo Supergroup is overlain by Late Jurassic and Cretaceous sandstones and mudstone, and intruded by carbonatite and kimberlite.\n\nDuring the past 66 million years of the Cenozoic, the Kalahari Desert underwent a major expansion during a long lasting dry period. In the Neogene through the Pleistocene, this climate change deposited moderately consolidated sandstones and windblown sands as the Kalahari Group in the Western Province and other parts of northwest, south and central Zambia. Pleistocene and Holocene alluvial deposits line the major rivers, as well as the Bangweulu Swamps and Kafue Flats. \n\nQuaternary alluvial aquifers and the 20 to 40 meter unconsolidated sands of the Kalahari Group, in western and northeastern Zambia are recharged by rainwater, although the Kalahari Group has some issues with brackish water. \n\nSeveral units of the Katanga Supergroup form consolidated, fracture flow aquifers in the Roan dolomite, Kundelungu limestone, Roan quartzites and Muva Supergroup. Brackish water is held in the unconfined, high porosity Karoo Group sandstones. By contrast, Karoo basalts, interbedded with sandstones and recharged through fractures tend to yield high quality water. \n\nLarge parts of the country are underlain by granite and gabbro crystalline basement rock. These rocks are generally impermeable, but store water in 10 to 15 meter thick weathered regolith and fractures.\n\nZambia has extensive natural resources, most famously the copper ore of the Roan Group, which gave rise to the Copperbelt region. Until the rapid decline in copper prices in the mid-1970s, copper mining formed the backbone of the economy of Zambia. Demand has picked up for copper, along with secondary production of cobalt. The country has deposits of iron, zinc, lead and tin, as well as small scale gemstone mining from basement rock. The Ndola area has emerald, aquamarine, garnet and talc.\n\nLower Karoo rocks host coal, while Upper Karoo rocks contain uranium. \n"}
{"id": "23456904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23456904", "title": "Gulf of Chiriquí National Marine Park", "text": "Gulf of Chiriquí National Marine Park\n\nThe Gulf of Chiriquí National Marine Park is located in the Gulf of Chiriquí, on the Pacific coast of Panama. It was established in 1994 to protect of marine ecosystems, including coral reef, mangrove swamp and marine meadow, and around two dozen islands of the archipelago of Isla Parida. In total, the park has 25 islands and 19 coral reefs.\n\nThe park is known for its wildlife including: green iguanas, humpback whales (from August to October), hammerhead sharks, whitetip reef sharks, manta rays, dolphins and multiple species of sea turtle that nest on the beaches of the islands.\n\nIslands protected within the park include Santa Catalina, Pulgoso, Gámez, Tintorera, Obispo, Obispone, Los Pargos, Ahogado, Icacos, Corral de Piedra, Bolaños, Bolañitos and Berraco. These islands are covered by tropical forests including cedar, hawthorn and oak which can provide timber; threats to the area include logging.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54395427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54395427", "title": "Head of the valley", "text": "Head of the valley\n\nThe head of the valley or, less commonly, the valley head, refers to the uppermost part of a valley. \n\nThe head of a valley may take widely differing forms; for example, in highland regions the valley often ends in a broad, evenly sloping hollow. The higher the head of the valley, the more likely it is to resemble the geomorphological shape of a cirque. In glacial valleys or trough valleys, it may be referred to as the trough head or trough end.\n\nIn mountains with predominantly crystalline rock the heads of the valleys are generally very wet, sometimes boggy and often support lush alpine meadows, whilst those made of limestone are usually dry and covered in talus or gravel. Where there has been ice age glaciation, the valley bottoms are modified by moraines and mountain lakes are common.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17982", "title": "Limbo", "text": "Limbo\n\nIn Catholic theology, Limbo (Latin \"limbus\", edge or boundary, referring to the \"edge\" of Hell) is a doctrine concerning the afterlife condition of those who die in original sin without being assigned to the Hell of the Damned. Medieval theologians of western Europe described the underworld (\"hell\", \"hades\", \"infernum\") as divided into four distinct parts: Hell of the Damned, Purgatory, Limbo of the Fathers or Patriarchs, and Limbo of the Infants. However, Limbo of the Infants is not an official doctrine of the Catholic Church.\n\nThe \"Limbo of the Patriarchs\" or \"Limbo of the Fathers\" (Latin \"limbus patrum\") is seen as the temporary state of those who, despite the sins they may have committed, died in the friendship of God but could not enter Heaven until redemption by Jesus Christ made it possible. The term \"Limbo of the Fathers\" was a medieval name for the part of the underworld (Hades) where the patriarchs of the Old Testament were believed to be kept until Christ's soul descended into it by his death through crucifixion and freed them (see Harrowing of Hell). The Catechism of the Catholic Church describes Christ's descent into Hell as meaning primarily that \"the crucified one sojourned in the realm of the dead prior to his resurrection. This was the first meaning given in the apostolic preaching to Christ's descent into Hell: that Jesus, like all men, experienced death and in his soul joined the others in the realm of the dead.\" It adds: \"But he descended there as Saviour, proclaiming the Good News to the spirits imprisoned there.\" It does not use the word \"Limbo\".\n\nThis concept of Limbo affirms that admittance to Heaven is possible only through the intervention of Jesus Christ, but does not portray Moses, etc. as being punished eternally in Hell. The concept of Limbo of the Patriarchs is not spelled out in Scripture, but is seen by some as implicit in various references.\n\nJesus told the Good Thief that the two of them would be together \"this day\" in \"Paradise\" (; see also ); but on the Sunday of his resurrection he said that he had \"not yet ascended to the Father\" (). Some say that the descent of Jesus to the abode of the dead, his presence among them, turned it into a paradise. Others understand the text to mean not \"I say to you, This day you will be with me in paradise\", but \"I say to you this day, You will be with me in paradise\". Timothy Radcliffe explained the \"today\" as a reference to the \"Today of eternity\".\n\nJesus is also described as preaching to \"the spirits in prison\" (1 Pet 3:19). Medieval drama sometimes portrayed Christ leading a dramatic assault—The Harrowing of Hell—during the three days between the Crucifixion and the resurrection. In this assault, Jesus freed the souls of the just and escorted them triumphantly into heaven. This imagery is still used in the Eastern Orthodox Church's Holy Saturday liturgy (between Good Friday and Pascha) and in Eastern Orthodox icons of the Resurrection of Jesus.\n\nThe doctrine expressed by the term \"Limbo of the Fathers\" was taught, for instance, by Clement of Alexandria, who maintained: \"It is not right that these should be condemned without trial, and that those alone who lived after the coming (of Christ) should have the advantage of the divine righteousness.\"\n\nThe Limbo of Infants (Latin \"limbus infantium\" or \"limbus puerorum\") is the hypothetical permanent status of the unbaptized who die in infancy, too young to have committed actual sins, but not having been freed from original sin. Recent Catholic theological speculation tends to stress the hope, although not the certainty, that these infants may attain heaven instead of the state of Limbo.\n\nWhile the Catholic Church has a defined doctrine on original sin, it has none on the eternal fate of unbaptized infants, leaving theologians free to propose different theories, which magisterium is free to accept or reject. Limbo is one such theory.\n\nIn countering Pelagius, who denied original sin, Saint Augustine of Hippo was led to state that because of original sin, \"such infants as quit the body without being baptized will be involved in the mildest condemnation of all. That person, therefore, greatly deceives both himself and others, who teaches that they will not be involved in condemnation; whereas the apostle says: 'Judgment from one offence to condemnation' (), and again a little after: 'By the offence of one upon all persons to condemnation' ().\"\n\nThe Council of North African bishops, which included Augustine of Hippo, held at Carthage in 418 did not explicitly endorse all aspects of Augustine's stern view about the destiny of infants who die without baptism, but said in a section of one canon (not found in all manuscripts) that there is no \"intermediate or other happy dwelling place for children who have left this life without Baptism, without which they cannot enter the kingdom of heaven, that is, eternal life\". So great was Augustine's influence in the West, however, that the Latin Fathers of the 5th and 6th centuries (e.g., Jerome, Avitus of Vienne, and Gregory the Great) did adopt his position.\n\nIn the later medieval period, some theologians continued to hold Augustine's view. In the 12th century, Peter Abelard (1079–1142) said that these infants suffered no material torment or positive punishment, just the pain of loss at being denied the beatific vision. Others held that unbaptized infants suffered no pain at all: unaware of being deprived of the beatific vision, they enjoyed a state of natural, not supernatural happiness. This theory was associated with but independent of the term \"Limbo of Infants\", which was forged about the year 1300.\n\nIf Heaven is a state of supernatural happiness and union with God, and Hell is understood as a state of torture and separation from God then, in this view, the Limbo of Infants, although technically part of hell (the outermost part, \"limbo\" meaning \"outer edge\" or \"hem\") is seen as a sort of intermediate state.\n\nThe question of Limbo is not treated in the parts of the Summa Theologica written by Saint Thomas Aquinas himself, but is dealt with in an appendix to the Supplement added after his death by Fra Rainaldo da Piperino. The Limbo of Infants is there described as an eternal state of natural joy, untempered by any sense of loss at how much greater their joy might have been had they been baptized: \"Every man who has the use of free-will is adapted to obtain eternal life, because he can prepare himself for grace whereby to merit eternal life; so that if he fail in this, his grief will be very great, since he has lost what he was able to possess. But children were never adapted to possess eternal life, since neither was this due to them by virtue of their natural principles, for it surpasses the entire faculty of nature, nor could they perform acts of their own whereby to obtain so great a good. Hence they will nowise grieve for being deprived of the divine vision; nay, rather will they rejoice for that they will have a large share of God's goodness and their own natural perfections. Nor can it be said that they were adapted to obtain eternal life, not indeed by their own action, but by the actions of others around them, since they could be baptized by others, like other children of the same condition who have been baptized and obtained eternal life: for this is of superabundant grace that one should be rewarded without any act of one's own. Wherefore the lack of such a grace will not cause sorrow in children who die without Baptism, any more than the lack of many graces accorded to others of the same condition makes a wise man to grieve.\"\n\nThe natural happiness possessed in this place would consist in the perception of God mediated through creatures. As stated in the International Theological Commission's document on the question:\n\nThe Ecumenical Council of Florence (1442) spoke of baptism as necessary even for children and required that they be baptised soon after birth. This had earlier been affirmed at the local Council of Carthage (417). The Council of Florence also stated that those who die in original sin alone go to hell, but with unequal pains as those in actual mortal sin. John Wycliffe's attack on the necessity of infant baptism was condemned by another general council, the Council of Constance. The Council of Trent in 1547 explicitly stated that baptism (or desire for baptism) was the means by which one is transferred \"from that state wherein man is born a child of the first Adam, to the state of grace, and of the adoption of the sons of God, through the second Adam, Jesus Christ, our Saviour.\n\nThrough the 18th and 19th centuries, individual theologians (Bianchi in 1768, H. Klee in 1835, Caron in 1855, H. Schell in 1893) continued to formulate theories of how children who died unbaptised might still be saved. By 1952 a theologian such as Ludwig Ott could, in a widely used and well-regarded manual, openly teach the possibility that children who die unbaptised might be saved for heaven. He also told about Thomas Cajetan, a major 16th-century theologian, that suggested infants dying in the womb before birth, and so before ordinary sacramental baptism could be administered, might be saved through their mother's wish for their baptism. In its 1980 instruction on children's baptism the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith stated that \"with regard to children who die without having received baptism, the Church can only entrust them to the mercy of God, as indeed she does in the funeral rite established for them\", leaving all theories as to their fate, including Limbo, as viable possibilities. And in 1984, when Joseph Ratzinger, then Cardinal Prefect of that Congregation, stated that he rejected the claim that children who die unbaptised cannot attain salvation, he was speaking for many academic theologians of his training and background.\n\nThe Church's teaching expressed in the 1992 Catechism of the Catholic Church is that \"Baptism is necessary for salvation for those to whom the Gospel has been proclaimed and who have had the possibility of asking for this sacrament.\" It adds that \"God has bound salvation to the sacrament of Baptism, but he himself is not bound by his sacraments\". It recalls that, apart from the sacrament, \"baptism of blood\" (as in the case of the martyrs) and in the case of catechumens who die before receiving the sacrament, explicit desire for baptism, together with repentance for their sins, and charity, ensures salvation. It states that, since Christ died for all and all are called to the same divine destiny, \"every man who is ignorant of the Gospel of Christ and of his Church, but seeks the truth and does the will of God in accordance with his understanding of it, can be saved\", seeing that, if they had known of the necessity of baptism, they would have desired it explicitly.\n\nIt then states: \"As regards children who have died without Baptism, the Church can only entrust them to the mercy of God, as she does in her funeral rites for them. Indeed, the great mercy of God who desires that all men should be saved, and Jesus' tenderness toward children which caused him to say: 'Let the children come to me, do not hinder them,' allow us to hope that there is a way of salvation for children who have died without Baptism. All the more urgent is the Church's call not to prevent little children coming to Christ through the gift of holy Baptism.\" Merely stating that one can \"hope\" in a way of salvation other than baptism, the Church thus urgently reiterates its appeal to baptize infants, the only certain means to \"not prevent\" their \"coming to Christ\" for salvation.\n\nOn 20 April 2007, the advisory body known as the International Theological Commission released a document, originally commissioned by Pope John Paul II, entitled \"The Hope of Salvation for Infants Who Die without Being Baptized.\" After tracing the history of the various opinions that have been and are held on the eternal fate of unbaptized infants, including that connected with the theory of the Limbo of Infants, and after examining the theological arguments, the document stated its conclusion as follows:\n\nPope Benedict XVI authorized publication of this document, indicating that he considers it consistent with the Church's teaching, though it is not an official expression of that teaching. Media reports that by the document \"the Pope closed Limbo\" are thus without foundation. In fact, the document explicitly states that \"the theory of \"limbo\", understood as a state which includes the souls of infants who die subject to original sin and without baptism, and who, therefore, neither merit the beatific vision, nor yet are subjected to any punishment, because they are not guilty of any personal sin. This theory, elaborated by theologians beginning in the Middle Ages, never entered into the dogmatic definitions of the Magisterium. Still, that same Magisterium did at times mention the theory in its ordinary teaching up until the Second Vatican Council. It remains therefore a possible theological hypothesis\" (second preliminary paragraph); and in paragraph 41 it repeats that the theory of Limbo \"remains a possible theological opinion\". The document thus allows the hypothesis of a limbo of infants to be held as one of the existing theories about the fate of children who die without being baptised, a question on which there is \"no explicit answer\" from Scripture or tradition. The traditional theological alternative to Limbo was not Heaven, but rather some degree of suffering in Hell. At any rate, these theories are not the official teaching of the Catholic Church, but are only opinions that the Church does not condemn, permitting them to be held by its members, just as is the theory of possible salvation for infants dying without baptism.\n\nNeither the Eastern Orthodox Church nor Protestantism accepts the concept of a limbo of infants; but, while not using the expression \"Limbo of the Patriarchs\", the Eastern Orthodox Church lays much stress on the resurrected Christ's action of liberating Adam and Eve and other righteous figures of the Old Testament, such as Abraham and David, from Hades (see Harrowing of Hell).\n\nSome Protestants have a similar understanding of those who died as believers prior to the crucifixion of Jesus residing in a place that is not Heaven, but not Hell. The doctrine holds that Hades has two \"compartments\", one an unnamed place of torment, the other named Abraham's Bosom. speaks of a chasm fixed between the two which cannot be crossed. Those in the unnamed \"compartment\" have no hope, and will ultimately be consigned to hell. Those in Abraham's bosom are those of whom it is written of Jesus, \"When He ascended on high, He led captive a host of captives...\" (Eph. 4:8, quoting Psa. 68:18). These individuals, the captives, now reside with God in Heaven. Both \"Compartments\" still exist, but Abraham's Bosom is now empty, while the other chamber is not, according to this doctrine.\n\nMormons teach that \"all who have died without a knowledge of [the] gospel, who would have received it if they had been permitted to tarry, shall be heirs of the celestial kingdom of God.\" Jehovah's Witnesses, Christadelphians, and others have taught that the dead are unconscious (or even nonexistent), awaiting their destiny on Judgment Day.\n\nThe Zoroastrian concept of \"hamistagan\" is similar to limbo. Hamistagan is a neutral state in which a soul that was neither good nor evil awaits Judgment Day.\n\nIn Islam, which denies the existence of original sin in totality, the concept of Limbo exists as \"Barzakh\", the state that exists after death, prior to the day of resurrection. During this period sinners are punished and the adequately purified rest in comfort. Children however are exempt from this stage, as they are regarded as innocent and are automatically classed as Muslims (despite religious upbringing). After death they go directly to Heaven, where they are cared for by Abraham.\n\nIn Classical Greek Mythology, the section of Hades known as the Fields of Asphodel were a realm much resembling Limbo, to which the vast majority of people who were held to have deserved neither the Elysian Fields (Heaven) nor Tartarus (Hell) were consigned for eternity.\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "7186703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7186703", "title": "List of Belarus-related topics", "text": "List of Belarus-related topics\n\nThis is a list of topics related to Belarus. Those interested in the subject can monitor changes to the pages by clicking on \"Related changes\" in the sidebar.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also List of newspapers in Belarus\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40660821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40660821", "title": "List of Beşiktaş J.K. seasons", "text": "List of Beşiktaş J.K. seasons\n\nBeşiktaş Jimnastik Kulübü is a multi-purpose Turkish sports club, founded in 1903, in the Beşiktaş district of Istanbul. As of 2013, the club is active in 13 different branches. The football branch of the team was formed as the club individuals gathered and begun to train together, led by Şeref Bey in 1910. Beşiktaş did not take a part of Istanbul Friday League (1904-1915) and Istanbul Sunday League (1915-1923) campaigns and started to play at competitive level of football in Istanbul League in 1923-1924 season where they topped the season-end table. The club later joined Milli Küme Şampiyonası (1937-1950) and Istanbul Professional Football League (1950-1959) until the Milli Lig was formed in 1959 as the nationwide professional association football campaign.\n\nSince 1959, Beşiktaş has competed in each and every season of Milli Lig (1959-1962), Türkiye 1. Futbol Ligi (1962-2000) and Süper Lig (2000-present). The team has 13 Süper Ligs, 9 Turkish Cups, 8 Turkish Super Cups, 8 Chancellor Cups, 12 TSYD Cups, 3 Milli Kümes, 3 Turkish Federation Cups, and 1 Atatürk Cup as their major achievements in domestic level. In European competitions, Beşiktaş reached the quarter-finals twice at European Champion Clubs' Cup, in 1986-87, and UEFA Cup in 2002-03 seasons.\n\nBelow are the year-by-year final performances of Beşiktaş in domestic and international competitions.\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "17252047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17252047", "title": "List of Buddhist temples in Seoul", "text": "List of Buddhist temples in Seoul\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25109560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25109560", "title": "List of CDMA2000 networks", "text": "List of CDMA2000 networks\n\nA list of CDMA2000 networks worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "8707733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8707733", "title": "List of biogeographic provinces", "text": "List of biogeographic provinces\n\nBiogeographic Province is a biotic subdivision of realms.\nThe following list of biogeographic provinces was developed by Miklos Udvardy in 1975, later modified by other authors.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5486026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5486026", "title": "List of flags of Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "List of flags of Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nThis is a list of flags which have been, or are still today, used in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\n\"For more information on current and historical national flags, see Flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46926578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46926578", "title": "List of highest mountain peaks in the Arab World", "text": "List of highest mountain peaks in the Arab World\n\nThis is a list of the highest summits in the Arab world.\n"}
{"id": "11359253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11359253", "title": "List of mammals of Macau", "text": "List of mammals of Macau\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in Macau. There are8 2 mammal species in Macau.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\nSome species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of Near Threatened and Least Concern categories:\n\nSirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps, and marine wetlands. All four species are endangered.\n\n\nThe order Primates contains humans and their closest relatives: lemurs, lorisoids, monkeys, and apes.\n\n\nThe \"shrew-forms\" are insectivorous mammals. The shrews and solenodons closely resemble mice while the moles are stout-bodied burrowers.\n\n\nThe order Rodentia is a large group of mammal.They have two incisors in the upper as well as in the lower jaw which grow continuously and must be kept worn down by gnawing.\n\n\nThe bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals in the world naturally capable of flight. Bat species account for about 50% of all mammals.\n\n\nThe order Philodota comprises the eight species of pangolin. Pangolins are anteaters and have the powerful claws, elongated snout and long tongue seen in the other unrelated anteater species.\n\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\nThe order Artiodactyla in Macau are mainly herbivore which feed only on plant material, except wildboar. There are three types of herbivores (includes native and feral) in recent Hong Kong.\n\n\nThere are over 260 species of carnivorans, the majority of which eat meat as their primary dietary item. They have a characteristic skull shape and dentition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35508005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35508005", "title": "List of municipalities in Prince Edward Island", "text": "List of municipalities in Prince Edward Island\n\nPrince Edward Island is the least populous province in Canada with 142,907 residents as of the 2016 census and is the smallest in land area at . Prince Edward Island's 63 municipalities were home to of its population in 2016. These municipalities provide local government services to their residents in the form of fire protection, municipal planning services, and emergency measures planning. The remaining unincorporated areas have no local government. \n\nMunicipal statuses in Prince Edward Island include cities, towns, rural municipalities, and resort municipalities. Under Prince Edward Island's \"Municipal Government Act\" of 2016, which came into force on December 23, 2017, the formation of a municipality can be proposed by the Minister of Communities, Land and Environment (CLE), the council of an existing municipality, or a petition signed by 30% of the residents that would be the electors of the new municipality. To be eligible for city or town status, certain minimum estimated population and total property assessment value criteria must be met. If those criteria are not met, rural municipality status can be granted if it is the opinion of the Minister of CLE that it would be in the public interest. The province's lone resort municipality that was established by order in council in 1990 continues as such in the \"Municipal Government Act\" but no new resort municipalities may be created.\n\nPrince Edward Island has two cities, ten towns, fifty communities and one resort municipality, which are distributed across three counties – Kings, Prince and Queens. Approximately of residents live in the provincial capital of Charlottetown and another live within the Charlottetown census agglomeration.\n\nUnder the province's \"Municipal Government Act\", a municipality may incorporate as a city if has an estimated population that meets or exceeds 15,000 and a total property assessment value that meets or exceeds $750-million. Prince Edward Island has two cities. Charlottetown is Prince Edward Island's capital and largest city both by population with 36,094 residents and by land area with . It forms the core of a census agglomeration that encompasses the middle of the island and is home to 69,325 residents, or of the island's population. The province's second city is Summerside, which is located on the west side of the island. It has a population of 14,829 and a land area of . Starting with the municipal elections in 2018, the cities will elect a mayor and eight councillors, though this could be increased to a mayor and ten councillors if enacted by municipal bylaw.\n\nUnder the province's \"Municipal Government Act\", a municipality may incorporate as a town if has an estimated population that meets or exceeds 4,000 but is less than 15,000, and a total property assessment value that meets or exceeds $200-million, but is less than $750-million. Prince Edward Island has ten towns that are incorporated municipalities, which had a cumulative population of 24,252 in the 2016 census. The province's largest and smallest towns are Stratford and North Rustico with populations of 9,706 and 607 respectively. Cornwall is Prince Edward Island's largest town by land area with and O'Leary is the province's smallest town by land area with . The province's newest town is Three Rivers, which incorporated as a town on September 28, 2018 through the amalgamation of the towns of Georgetown and Montague, five rural municipalities (Brudenell, Cardigan, Lorne Valley, Lower Montague, and Valleyfield), and portions of three adjacent unincorporated areas. Starting with the municipal elections in 2018, the towns will elect a mayor and six councillors, though this could be increased to a mayor and eight councillors if enacted by municipal bylaw.\n\nUnder the province's \"Municipal Government Act\", municipalities that previously held community status under the previous \"Municipalities Act\" were carried forward as rural municipalities. With the amalgamation of Brackley and Winsloe South on December 15, 2017, and then the \"Municipal Government Act\" coming into force eight days later on December 23, 2017, Prince Edward Island had 58 communities that became rural municipalities. On September 28, 2018, three amalgamations reduced the total amount of rural municipalities to 50. As of the 2016 census, the province's largest and smallest communities are Belfast and Tignish Shore with populations of 1,670 and 57 respectively. Starting with the municipal elections in 2018, the rural municipalities will elect a mayor and six councillors, though this could be increased to a mayor and eight councillors if enacted by municipal bylaw.\n\nPrince Edward Island has one municipality holding resort municipality status. The Resort Municipality of Stanley Bridge, Hope River, Bayview, Cavendish and North Rustico was established as a resort municipality in 1990. The province's \"Municipal Government Act\" allows this resort municipality to continue yet prevents the establishment of additional resort municipalities in the future. Starting with the municipal elections in 2018, the province's lone resort municipality will elect a mayor and six councillors, though this could be increased to a mayor and eight councillors if enacted by municipal bylaw.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34250928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34250928", "title": "List of populated islands of the Great Lakes", "text": "List of populated islands of the Great Lakes\n\nThe following is a list of populated islands of the Great Lakes and connecting rivers. The islands listed have a specified year-round population of over 50 residents. \n\nMany islands are popular tourist destinations, and experience a sharp population increase during peak travel seasons.\n\nIn 2017, the \"Great Lakes Island Coalition\" was founded, a group dedicated to representing the interests of Great Lakes island residents. At an annual summit, related issues of discussion include environmental issues facing the Great Lakes island inhabitants, such as water levels and quality, invasive species, and even government policy topics, such as nuclear water storage and shipment in the Great Lakes region.\n\nPart of the city of Toronto, Algonquin Island is one of the Toronto Islands, an archipelago in Toronto Harbour. Unlike most of the archipelago, which is made up of parkland and amusement facilities, Algonquin Island is residential.\n\nAmherst Island is, at 70 square kilometers, the largest island wholly within Lake Ontario (Wolfe Island is larger, but the eastern end of the island is in the St. Lawrence River). Amherst Island has a year-round population of 450, which grows slightly in the summer. The island, which is served by a ferry out of Millhaven, is entirely rural, and is located in Loyalist Township, Lennox and Addington County, Ontario, Canada.\n\nBeaver Island is the largest island in Lake Michigan and part of the Beaver Island archipelago of Michigan in the United States. It lies about 32 miles (50 km) from the city of Charlevoix on the mainland, and can be reached by air or boat. St. James is the name of the unincorporated community on the island, which has a population of 551.\n\nThe municipality of Gordon/Barrie Island is a township in Manitoulin District in Lake Huron in north central Ontario, Canada. The island has a significant summer recreational population. It is connected to Manitoulin Island by Highway 540A, which crosses the water via a causeway at the narrowest part of the strait.\n\nBois Blanc Island is located in Lake Huron southeast of Mackinac Island and almost due north of the city of Cheboygan, Michigan. Plaunt Transportation is the sole provider of ferry services for the island.\n\nBois Blanc Island is located in the Detroit River. It was previously the site of the Boblo Island Amusement Park. It is accessed by private ferry from Amherstburg, Ontario and has a winter population of 50 - 60.\n\nCayuga Island is part of the city of Niagara Falls, New York, located in the Niagara River several miles upstream of the falls themselves. Part of the LaSalle neighborhood, the island contains a mix of parkland and middle-class housing.\n\nCentre Island is the largest of the Toronto Islands, an archipelago located in Toronto's harbour on Lake Ontario. Though most of the islands' residences and businesses were systematically removed beginning in 1953 in favor of parkland and other recreational facilities, a small year-round community of several dozen houses remains at the east end of the island, known as Ward's Island.\n\nCockburn Island is an island in the Canadian province of Ontario, located in the Manitoulin District. Most of the island is incorporated as the municipal township of Cockburn Island. While having a low permanent population, its population grows significantly in the summer, to about 200 residents.\n\nDrummond Island is one of the largest islands in Lake Huron, and consists of Drummond Township, Michigan. The unincorporated area had a population of 992 residents as of the 2000 Census. The island lies along the Canada–US border, and is adjacent to Manitoulin Island.\n\nGrand Island in Lake Superior has a population of 47 according to the 2010 Census. The island is in the U.S. state of Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Most of the island is a federal park.\n\nLocated in the Niagara River, Grand Island is located in Erie County, New York and is a suburb of the city of Buffalo with a population of 20,374 as of the 2010 Census. It is the most populated freshwater island in the United States.\n\nGrosse Ile lies in the Detroit River, downriver from Detroit. It is part of Wayne County, Michigan and had a population over 10,000. The largest island in the Detroit River, it is one of the most populated islands in the Great Lakes system. It is reached by two bridges or a small airport.\n\nHarsens Island is an island in the St. Clair River delta on the U.S. border opposite Canada's Walpole Island. It has a population of over 1,200 year-round residents and perhaps 5,000 in summer. It is served by Champion's Auto Ferry.\n\nKelleys Island is both a village in Erie County, Ohio, United States, and the island which it fully occupies in Lake Erie. \n\nMackinac Island is an island and tourist area covering 3.8 square miles in Lake Huron, located between the state of Michigan's Upper and Lower Peninsulas\n\nMadeline Island is located in Lake Superior and contains the town of La Pointe, with a population of 246. The island has a rich history and was once the home of a French fur trading post.\n\nManitoulin Island is a Canadian island in Lake Huron, and is the largest island in a freshwater lake in the world. It has two incorporated towns, and eight townships with a population of 13,000, thus making it the most populated island in the Great Lakes.\n\nMiddle Bass Island is an Ohio island in western Lake Erie with a year-round population of 95. It lies near Kelleys Island and South Bass Island (Put-In-Bay). The island has an airport and is a stop on the inter-island ferry.\n\nNeebish Island is an island in the U.S. state of Michigan in the St. Marys River between the United States and the Canadian province of Ontario. There is one store and one church on the island, and a car ferry service operates April 1 to January 15.\n\nPelee Island is the largest island in Lake Erie, and is the southernmost populated place in Canada. It has a year-round population of 170 with much higher numbers in summer.\n\nSouth Bass Island is located in western Lake Erie, and a part of Ottawa County, Ohio. It contains the village of Put-in-Bay, which has a population of 128 as of the 2000 Census. Ferry service connects the community with Catawba Island, Kelleys Island, Port Clinton, and Sandusky, Ohio.\n\nSt. Joseph Island is a Canadian Island in Lake Huron, and is the second largest island in Lake Huron. It has a year-round population of around 2000, and is connected to the mainland by the Bernt Gilbertson Bridge spanning the North Channel of Lake Huron along Highway 548.\n\nSugar Island is an island in the U.S. state of Michigan in the St. Marys River between the United States and the Canadian province of Ontario. The entire island constitutes Sugar Island Township in Chippewa County at the eastern tip of the Upper Peninsula. According to the 2000 census, there were 683 people living on the island.\n\nWashington Island is located about 7 miles northeast of the tip of Door Peninsula in Door County, Wisconsin. The island has a year-round population of 660 people as of the 2000 Census. The unincorporated community of Detroit Harbor is located on the island.\n\nWalpole Island (Bkejwanong) lies on the Canadian side of the St. Clair River delta. It is the main part of Walpole Island 46 Indian reserve and has a population over 2,200. It neighbors the U.S. Harsens Island. It is accessible by bridge from the Canadian mainland and ferry from the U.S.\n\nWolfe Island is an island located at the entrance to the Saint Lawrence River in Lake Ontario near Kingston, Ontario. The resident population is approximately 1400 people, but this number can double or triple during the summer months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41585219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41585219", "title": "List of tallest buildings in Amsterdam", "text": "List of tallest buildings in Amsterdam\n\nThis is a list of tallest buildings in Amsterdam.\n\n"}
{"id": "33429243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33429243", "title": "List of types of marble", "text": "List of types of marble\n\nThe following is a list of various types of marble according to location.\n\n(NB: Marble-like stone which is not true marble according to geologists is included, but is indicated by \"italics\" and an endnote).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee webpage Dekorační kameny etc. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese entries are actually \"false\" marble, near-marble, or marble mis-nomers:\n\n"}
{"id": "969955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=969955", "title": "M181 motorway", "text": "M181 motorway\n\nThe M181 is a motorway that links the town of Scunthorpe, England, to the M180 motorway. A spur of the M180, the road is virtually straight through its entire length. It was opened in December 1978, at the same time as the section of M180 from junction 3 (A15) to the east side of the River Trent (the bridge was not opened until late 1979).\n\nIt begins just outside Scunthorpe, at the junction of the A1077 and A18. There is an out-of-town retail park, known locally as Gallagher Retail Park, which offers a variety of food and retail outlets, and Glanford Park, the home of Scunthorpe United Football Club at this junction. At the other end, the road has a junction for the M180 east, while the main carriageway merges with the M180 west. It has no intermediate junctions. It is built to typical British motorway standards, being two lanes in each direction, plus a hard shoulder for its entire length.\n\nAs part of the Lincolnshire Lakes development, it is proposed to construct a new roundabout junction halfway along the M181 which would form the terminus of the motorway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35179951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35179951", "title": "Mapumental", "text": "Mapumental\n\nMapumental is a web-based application for displaying journeys in terms of how long they take, rather than by distance, a technique also known as isochrone or geospatial mapping. It is developed by British organisation mySociety.\n\nUsers input one or more postcodes and Mapumental displays a map overlaid with coloured bands, each of which represent a set increment of time. Initial work on the project was done by Chris Lightfoot, using open data from Railplanner, Transport Direct and the Transport for London Journey Planner.\n\nIt was built with support from Channel 4iP, the former public service arm of British TV broadcaster Channel 4. The software the Mapumental runs on is licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License.\n\nMapumental can be combined with other data sets, for example, property prices and ‘scenicness’ data (see ScenicorNot, below). It is now provided as a commercial service by mySociety to clients such as the Fire Protection Association.\n"}
{"id": "5184930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5184930", "title": "Mount Shimbiris", "text": "Mount Shimbiris\n\nMount Shimbiris is the highest peak in Somalia. It has an elevation of above sea level. It is located in the Al Madow mountain range in northern Somalia in the Sanaag region. SRTM data shows that its often-quoted elevation of is slightly low.\n\nThere is no vehicle access. However, visitors can stay in a tent. \n\n"}
{"id": "23057852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23057852", "title": "Niemirowski", "text": "Niemirowski\n\nNiemirowski, feminine: Niemirowska is a Polish-language toponymic surname meaning \"from Nemyriv (now Ukraine)\" or \"from Niemirów (Poland)\". \n\nAs a Polish noble surname, it, together its variant, Niemierowski, belonged to the Trzaska coat of arms heraldic clan.\n\nThe Russian-language variant is Nemirovsky / Nemirovskaya, the Ukrainian one is Nemyrivskyi / Nemyrivskaya.\n\nThe surname may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1248758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1248758", "title": "North Island Volcanic Plateau", "text": "North Island Volcanic Plateau\n\nThe North Island Volcanic Plateau (often called the Central Plateau and occasionally the Waimarino Plateau) is a volcanic plateau covering much of central North Island of New Zealand with volcanoes, lava plateaus, and crater lakes.\n\nThe plateau is approximately 100 km east–west and the north–south distance is about 130 km.\n\nExtensive ignimbrite sheets spread east and west of the Taupo Volcanic Zone centred on the huge dormant supervolcanic caldera Lake Taupo, the largest lake in New Zealand, which last erupted 2000 years ago. The volcanic area includes the three active peaks of Mount Tongariro, Mount Ngauruhoe, and Mount Ruapehu in the south, and extends beyond Rotorua in the north reaching almost to the Bay of Plenty coast. North of Tongariro is the volcanic Mount Pihanga. The western boundary of the plateau forms an escarpment beside the Mamaku and Kaimai Ranges, but further south is less distinct. In the east, the plateau runs up to the foot of the Ahimanawa, Kaweka and the fertile Kaimanawa mountain ranges. Finally, west of the plateau stands the volcano Mount Taranaki (in Egmont National Park).\n\nTwo of the country's longest rivers, the Whanganui and the Waikato have their headwaters on the plateau.\n\nThe tallest mountain, Ruapehu, is an Andesite cone that was once twice as high but has been eroded. All of the cones are composite stratovolcanoes made up of layers of lava and tephra. They are in the intermediate category, meaning that they have a moderate amount of silica in the magma. The percentage of silica is the deciding factor in the thickness or viscosity of the lava. This contrasts with ignimbrite which is a gas-rich material ejected from the ground at high speed forming a giant white hot fountain 55 kilometres high. When the ignimbrite falls it flows outwards at high speed (600–900 km/h) and can travel many kilometres, even going up and over hills and mountains before it cools, trapping air inside. Especially around Lake Taupo the eroded ignimbrite includes pieces of pumice, a lightweight rock that floats on water. The top, unwelded layer of the ignimbrite sheet is relatively soft and easily eroded by streams and rivers, which transport the pumice to the lake. The lower, welded layers of the ignimbrite sheets are more dense, though still porous. These lower compressed layers often show the glint of heated silicon specks. This stone, called Hinuera stone (after the quarry of origin), is used for building cladding. \n\nThe ring plain around the central volcanoes is formed from numerous lahars or mudflows that occur when either the crater lake water is ejected from Ruapehu or snow is melted, during an eruption. The water runs down the mountain, picking up ash, lapilli, blocks and bombs as well as previously eroded rock, forming a thick, dense mud that is capable of picking up car-sized rocks. An old lahar flow is visible from the approach road to Whakapapa ski field. In December 1953 a sudden lahar at night on Mt Ruapehu knocked out the rail bridge at Tangiwai, causing six carriages of the Wellington-Auckland express to plunge into the Whangaehu River, killing 151 people.\n\nThe last major eruption in the area was the Hatepe eruption from the Lake Taupo volcanic complex 1800 years ago, which ejected lava and especially wind-blown tephra over a wide area to the north and northeast of the North Island. About of material was ejected in the space of a few minutes, in the biggest volcanic event in the world in the last 5,000 years.\n\nThe entire area is above 300 metres, with a considerable proportion of it more than 800 metres above sea level. The plateau has a mild climate although the temperature regularly falls below freezing in winter and snow can fall between March and October. Of all North Island regions, the Volcanic Plateau is closest to having a continental climate. The period of maximum snow is July to September. Sudden blizzard conditions can be experienced on the volcanoes in winter. These blizzards have killed climbers as recently as the 1980s.The Desert Road on State Highway 1 is often closed by snow in winter for brief periods.\n\nThe natural vegetation of the area includes the podocarp conifers including rimu \"(Dacrydium cupressinum)\", miro \"(Prumnopitys ferruginea)\", matai \"(Prumnopitys taxifolia)\", totara \"(Podocarpus totara)\" and kahikatea \"(Dacrycarpus dacrydioides)\" and hardwoods that once covered this whole area before the eruption of Taupo and other volcanoes. To the west of the three large volcanoes, the land is rough forested hill country, while the north close to Lake Taupo is more fertile and undulating and much has been cleared for farming. The forest used to extend to the west coast and there are still patches of natural vegetation in wetlands including the Horowhenua floodplains.\n\nHowever to the east of Taupo the barren, ash-laden soils and harsh alpine climate leave the high land largely bare and unprofitable, capable of growing only scrubby plants. This area is known as the Rangipo Desert although it is not a true desert as the annual rainfall is over 1,000mm PA and the real reason for the low and sparse vegegation was the mass sterilization of seeds caused by the 20,000-year-old Taupo eruption, which swept white-hot ignimbrite through this valley. Prior to this cataclysmic event this area was forested and stumps of charcoalized trees can be seen where soil has eroded.\nAround Taupo itself there are geothermal areas with specialised plant life such as the prostrate kanuka \"(a subspecies of kunzea ericoides)\".\n\nFurther to the east of the plateau lies more rough hill country in the Kaimanawa Ranges, a popular hunting area for wild red and sika deer. The tops of the mountains are open and tussock covered .Helicopters and light aircraft can land on a rough air strip. Hunting range in the bush is often 50 m or less but in the open tops the range can be much further. The area to the south, around Lake Moawhango is richer in plant life. Finally there are areas of beech forest and alpine vegetation at higher elevations throughout the region.\n\nThe northern side of the plateau especially is home to wildlife including birds such as the North Island kōkako wattlebird \"(Callaeas wilsoni)\", New Zealand kaka, and large populations of brown kiwi \"(Apteryx australis)\" and blue duck \"(Hymenolaimus malacorhynchos)\". The area to the south of the plateau and down to Wellington is home to a variety of lizards including Whitaker's skink \"(Cyclodina whitakeri)\", forest gecko \"(Hoplodactylus granulatus)\" and Wellington green gecko \"(Naultinus elegens punctatus)\". Wetlands throughout the region support waterbirds and fish including the endemic brown mudfish.\n\nThe lowland areas are quite highly populated and therefore urban development, agriculture and forestry are a major threat to natural habitats there. One block of lowland forest remains in and around Whanganui National Park and large areas of the uplands are protected either by Maori tradition or in national parks of which Te Urewera is the largest. The four North Island national parks, which surround the plateau, are Te Urewera, Whanganui, Egmont and New Zealand's first national park, the World Heritage listed Tongariro National Park. Introduced species and livestock grazing are now major threats to some endemic species. Rats, cats and stoats prey on native reptiles and birds (including the kokako, blue duck and brown kiwi), while imported plants such as old man’s beard, banana passionfruit and gorse can take over from indigenous species. Finally grazing by goats and possums can eradicate others such as kamahi, kaikawaka (\"Libocedrus bidwillii\") and mountain tōtara. Therefore, smaller islands off the coast of Wellington have been used as a refuge for North Island birds and reptiles whose habitats may be threatened now or in the future.\n\nAlso the Volcanic Plateau region has the largest area of man made forest in the Southern Hemisphere. Nearly all the trees are \"Pinus radiata\" which were bought in for trials at Rotorua in 1899 from Kew Gardens, London. The tree, a native of Monterey, California, grew very fast in the poor soils. Mass planting was initially carried out by prisoners in the 1920s and then by the unemployed on a large scale during the Great Depression. After World War II scientists from Norway settled in the region and helped develop ways of treating the soft pine to prevent rotting using pressure treatment with chemicals. They also introduced selective breeding methods which was the standard way of improving the trees until tissue culture was introduced in the 1990s. Trees take 25–30 years to reach full height. Most plantations use growth factor (GF) trees to guarantee very high quality (straight and knot-free) timber, however treatment by chemical salts is still required to stop rotting. This is done by either dipping or more usually, pressure treatment. New Zealand has pioneered the use of Radiata timber and plywood in small craft boatbuilding. Untreated clear timber or plywood is used that is then encapsulated in epoxy resin after construction. The key reason is the low cost of the wood rather than any inherent properties of the wood which is of moderate weight but fractures easily when bent, when dried to 12% moisture. One of the largest ply factories in New Zealand is located on the Volcanic Plateau at Tokoroa. Although planting by hand is still done on steeper land, most seedlings are now planted with the help of machines.\n\nUrban areas in the region include the towns of Taihape in the south, Ohakune the carrot-growing capital of NZ in the west, and Taupo in the north, with Turangi a major trout fishing base at the south of Lake Taupo and by the Kaweka Ranges in the east, The majority of the population of the area lives close to the shores of Lake Taupo, with some smaller settlements to the east of the volcanoes. These make their living largely through tourism, including skiing in the winter season, trout fishing, especially on the Tongariro river or by forestry in the plateau's northeast, which includes the Kaingaroa Forest or by working on the extensive Hydro Electric power system.\n\nThe Māori population during the Archaic period was sparse. Only two moa hunter period sites have been discovered to date. The best known is the Whakamoenga cave near Taupo. The cave was in use about 600 years ago and three moa bones, obsidian flakes, hollow pumice stone ash holders, pumice floats, a fishing net, bird spears, pieces of hue (gourd) and bracken remains have been found. The other moa hunter site is at Tokoroa.\n\nThe tangata whenua are the Ngāti Tūwharetoa. Their paramount chief is Sir Tumu te Heuheu. They moved into this area after splitting away from the Arawa tribe on the east coast. The boundary between Arawa and Tuwharetoa is a small island 400 metres north of Huka Falls on the Waikato River. Their main marae is on the southern shores of Lake Taupo at Waihi near the Tokaanu geothermal area. They still retain ownership of the peaks of the mountains which are considered sacred, as well as the Ketetahi hot springs on the north slope of Mt Tongariro. The Māori people considered the volcanoes sacred and in traditional times wore woven flax eye shields to avoid looking at the peaks.\n\nThe Rangipo region is largely uninhabited. It is used by the New Zealand Army, based at Waiouru in the south, and by the Rangipo prison farm in the north and Rangipo underground HEP station to the east. During the 1960s The Tongariro power scheme redirected the flow of water from many of the streams and rivers that drain the central peaks. The water was channelled into canals, tunnels and storage lakes to provide water for 2 HEP stations at Rangipo and Tokaanu. The water then flowed into Lake Taupo increasing its input by 20%. Most of the Tongariro river flow is not included in the power scheme due to its importance as a breeding area for brown and rainbow trout. The extra water boosted the amount of water available to the 10 other HEP stations on the Waikato River which flows from the north end of the lake and is its only exit.\n\nThe productivity of pasture on the plateau was greatly improved in the 1950s once it was realised that the \"bush sickness\" suffered by local livestock was due to cobalt deficient volcanic soils. The cure for this was discovered by an Australian scientist in 1936 but the application of cobalt at the rate of 30cc per Ha was only possible after World War II making use of war surplus planes and ex WW2 pilots for aerial topdressing. The cobalt was mixed with crushed phosphate rock which was obtained cheaply from Nauru Island in the West Pacific. The resulting mix was called Super Phosphate.\n\nThe site is close to Tangiwai, the scene of New Zealand's worst railway disaster on Christmas Eve, 1953, when 151 were killed when the rail bridge was destroyed by a lahar flow from Mt Ruapehu.\nThe largest farm in the North Island was established off the Taupo-Napier road and is called Lochinver Station. The station was largely developed by construction millionaire Bill Stephenson and his family using heavy earthmoving equipment in the 1960s and 1970s. The high country sheep and cattle station has several airstrips, 21 houses and 200 km of roading. It normally carries 100,000 breeding ewes and about 8,000 cattle. It has extensive shelter belts of contorta pine, improved rye-grass pasture and grows crops of swedes and barley. The farm is open to tourist and school group bus tours.\n\nTourism is an economic mainstay of the region with a wide range of largely outdoor attractions from trout fishing, flyfishing on Tongariro River or harling on Lake Taupo, tramping, Mountain biking centred on National Park, deer or pig hunting, horse riding to snowskiing/boarding on Mt Ruapehu.\n\nThe Sir Edmund Hillary Outdoor Pursuits Centre of New Zealand is located on the site of an old Italian tunneling construction camp. Started by mountaineer Graeme Dingle in the 1970s, this centre offers valuable outdoor training experience and skills to secondary school groups and others.\n\nTrain and engineering enthusiasts will enjoy the Raurimu Spiral. The main trunk rail line spirals upwards 132m via a tunnel and 180 degree hairpin bends so the passengers near the head of the train can see the rear carriages heading in the opposite direction. At the time of construction it was considered a masterpiece of engineering. This was the last stage to be built in the main trunk railway line completed in 1900.\n\nThe Cold Kiwi Motorcycle Rally, advertised as NZ's longest running motorcycle rally, has been held on the Plateau since 1972. \nThe event is run by The Ruapehu Motorcycle Club in early Sept each year. Bikers sleep in their own tents despite the average temperature being -8C at night, but the club provides hot food and drinks, a bonfire, as well as competitions, souvenirs, live bands and toilet facilities.\n\nThe 2016 event will be held from Friday 2 September to Sunday 4 September on a new site at Horopito on the western side of Mt Ruapehu.\n\nThe one-day Tongariro Alpine Crossing from the Mangatepopo Valley across Mt Ngauruhoe and Mt Tongariro is named one of the greatest one-day walks in the world by the Department of Conservation. The 19.2 km track is well marked in summer and popular but trampers should be quite fit and well equipped as the route is exposed, especially during the winter months (April to September) when the route poles are sometimes hidden by snow or blown away. There are two well equipped huts near the ends of route. Detailed guidance is available from the Mt Ruapehu Department of Conservation Visitors Centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "6225287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6225287", "title": "Origin of the name Kven", "text": "Origin of the name Kven\n\nThe origin of the name \"Kven\" is unclear. The name appears for the first time in a 9th-century Old English version, written by King Alfred of Wessex, of a work by the Roman author Orosius, in the plural form \"Cwenas\". \n\nToday, however, the name Kven refers to Finnish speaking people who have migrated to northern Norway in relatively recent times, with no connection to the \"Cwenas/Kænir\" mentioned in the sagas.\n\nAll ancient references to Kvenland and Kvens seem to be from Old English and Icelandic sources (9th to 13th centuries). Furthermore, most of them seem to have been connected to a certain geographical area in Norway in one way or another:\n\n\nThis might indicate that the term \"Kven\" was originally used in Norwegian dialects around a rather compact area ranging from Trondheim to Hålogaland.\n\nWidely accepted is the view first presented by Jouko Vahtola that \"kven\" etymologically originates from Old Norse \"hvein,\" meaning \"swampy land\".\n\nWhatever the origin of the name \"kven\" is, it effortlessly translates to \"woman\" in Old Norse. Proto-Germanic \"*kwinōn, *kunōn; *kwēni-z, *kwēnō\" for \"woman\" had developed into \"kona; kvǟn, kvān, kvɔ̄n; kvendi; kvenna, kvinna\" in Old Norse. An example of this is that Kvenland was most likely translated to \"Terra Feminarum\" (\"Woman Land\") in a Latin text from 1075 CE. Another reference to a north-bound land of women is from an Icelandic manuscript from the 14th century that describes a \"kuenna land\" (\"Woman Land\") north of India that would only have women with both reproduction organs. \n\nSimilar sounding words to \"kainuu\" also exist in the Sami languages. In North Samic, \"Gáidnu\" is a rope made of roots for boats or fishing nets. \"Gáidnulaŝ\" refers to a clumsy person and \"Geaidnu\" stands for a road or a way. In the early saami dictionaries \"Kainolats/Kainahaljo\" had the meaning Norwegian or Swedish man while \"Kainahalja\" had the meaning Norwegian or Swedish women, it could also have the meaning peasant. Helsing-byn close Torneå was referred to as \"Cainho\".\n"}
{"id": "24499613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24499613", "title": "Ouenzé", "text": "Ouenzé\n\nOuenzé is one of the arrondissements of Brazzaville, capital of Republic of Congo. It is located in the north of the capital. Brazzaville is divided into seven arrondissements, or districts: Makélékélé (1), Bacongo (2), Poto-Poto (3), Moungali (4), Ouenzé (5), Talangaï (6) and Mfilou (7).\n\nThere are many sports like judo, karate etc. Most of them are called \"Pomba\" especially in an area called Texaco-city is the famous place. But the main common sport is football because it had five of the best clubs in Brazzaville: \"Saint Michel de Ouenzé\"; \"AS Police (Brazzaville)\"; \"Ajax de Ouenzé\" ;\"CARA Brazzaville\" and \"As Mbako\".\n\nThe population is about 1000 residents.\n\nMost of residents are educated. They use as spoken languages French, Lingala and Kituba.\n\n"}
{"id": "16278778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278778", "title": "Outline of Grenada", "text": "Outline of Grenada\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Grenada:\n\nGrenada – sovereign island nation that comprises the Island of Grenada and the southern Grenadines in the southeastern Caribbean Sea. Grenada is located north of Trinidad and Tobago and Venezuela, and south of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The national bird of Grenada is the critically endangered Grenada dove. Popularly known as the \"Spice Isle\" because of an abundance of locally grown spices and a culture of music, dance and food built into the image of \"spice of life\", Grenada is also a well-known tourist destination. It is one of the smallest independent nations in the Western Hemisphere.\n\n\nGeography of Grenada\n\n\n\nRegions of Grenada\n\nList of ecoregions in Grenada\nNone\n\n\nDemographics of Grenada\n\n\nGovernment of Grenada\n\n\n\nCourt system of Grenada\n\nForeign relations of Grenada\n\nGrenada is a member of:\n\nLaw of Grenada\n\nMilitary of Grenada\n\nLocal government in Grenada\n\nHistory of Grenada\n\nCulture of Grenada\n\n\nSports in Grenada\n\nEconomy of Grenada\n\nEducation in Grenada\n\n\nGrenada\n"}
{"id": "39628677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39628677", "title": "Planimetría General de Madrid", "text": "Planimetría General de Madrid\n\nThe Planimetría General de Madrid (sometimes referred to as the Planimetría General de la Villa or the Visita General) or the General Survey of Madrid was a cadastral survey and registering of urban land carried out in the city of Madrid in the eighteenth century, between 1749 and 1759 The cadastre collected information related to property ownership, size and other indications, in an effort to facilitate the imposition of the regalía de aposento.\n\nThe General Survey of Madrid between 1749 and 1774 was one of the most important cadastral surveys of the Old Spanish regime. The Planimetría General de Madrid resulted in the production 557 plans of blocks throughout Madrid.\n\nIn the cadastre documentary data were collected on the ownership of Madrid properties and other features such as previous owners, map showing the plots into which each manzana or block was divided, description of the configuration and structure of each building, size and quality of the building, indication of the name and number of tenants housed per room, the tax status according to the aposento charged, among other indicators. Each block was then numbered and identified with the objective of levying taxes. This identification done by the general visit resulted in a white tile being laid on every house with writing in blue letters indicating the number assigned: \"Visita G. Casa nº123\" (General Visit House # 123).\n\nThe initial intentions of the Marqués de la Ensenada was to renew the tax system in Castile. Among the constraints imposed on the inhabitants of Madrid was the regalía de aposento. The method by which taxes were imposed was based on the \"Visita General\" which identified the nature of property ownership and assessed the taxes on inhabitants accordingly.\n\nThe imprecision of the method resulted in it being eventually abandoned. It was repealed by Marqués Viudo de Pontejos who replaced it with a more logical which consisted of identifying streets with names of famous persons and historical events. The white numbered tiles that were laid by officials during the survey are still evidenced on the façade of Madridean houses especially in the historic center of Madrid.\n\n"}
{"id": "918082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=918082", "title": "Plug (horticulture)", "text": "Plug (horticulture)\n\nPlugs in horticulture are small-sized seedlings grown in trays from expanded polystyrene or polythene filled usually with a peat or compost substrate. This type of plug is used for commercially raising vegetables and bedding plants. Similarly plugs may also refer to small sections of lawn grass sod. After being planted, lawn grass may somewhat spread over an adjacent area.\n\nPlug plants are young plants raised in small, individual cells, ready to be transplanted into containers or a garden. Professionally raised vegetable/flowering plants in controlled conditions during their important formative period (the first 4–6 weeks) can help to ensure plant health and for plants to reach their maximum potential during the harvest/blooming period. Establishing a garden using plug plants is often easier than doing so starting from seed.\n\nPlanting from plugs reduces the time a crop resides in the ground, and is functional for those with limited space. Plugs can improve yields: a healthy, stocky plant will grow rapidly and symmetrically when planted out, with a potentially greater capacity to withstand pests, disease and drought. Raising some types of seedlings successfully can be difficult, so plug plants can be beneficial for less experienced gardeners. Plug plants are beneficial for gardeners who want to try a new variety or a range of varieties without purchasing numerous packets of seeds and starting the plants from seed. Plug plants are very useful if the sowing window is missed, and plugs can be purchased quickly to replace a crop which has failed.\n\nAs a garden develops, interplanting (intercropping) existing crops with plugs plants, ideally companion plants, can improve the productivity of the space and so maximise harvestsa sown crop may not be able to compete with established plants. Plug plants are much easier to weed than sown seedlings, and weeding will need to be done less frequently.\n\nHaving semi-grown plants simplifies designing a vegetable plot or container. As plants that have already started growth, the time to attain plant growth is lessened. Within days of planting signs of growth are typically visible: leaves will perk up and roots anchor into the soil. Air pruned plugs are grown in a manner to promote very rapid growth almost immediately after being transplanted to new soil.\n\nPlugs are sometimes used in hillside plasticulture applications, due to the ease in which they are transplanted.\n\nPlug plants grow more consistently, as has been noted by the commercial scale vegetable growing industry, and more rapidly; large-scale brassica field crops are planted almost exclusively from soil block plugs in some parts of Europe, a trend which is growing in the UK. This success at the commercial scale is testament to the success of plugs in the ground.\n\nIt is of note that many varieties actively benefit from being transplanted as severing the taproot encourages bushier root growth. Traditionally nearly all heading brassica are sown in a separate seed bed, thinned, and the best ones planted in a prepared bed after about 6–8 weeks. Many pests want to eat baby brassica; this in combination with its long growing season makes planting brassica from plugs a much easier option.\n\nRoot vegetables are typically, but not always, sown from seed, rather than transplanted from plugs, where they are to mature and then be thinned. The thinning action is highly beneficial in itself as it provides soil aeration at depth without disturbing adjacent roots systems. The initial concentration of seedlings also dilutes damage from pests and provided some food for the gardener or the compost in the form of thinnings. Beetroot, carrots and the root brassica family- swede, turnip- will simply not reach their full potential with any check to early root growth. In addition, these seeds are typically inexpensive, and the seedlings are delicate; hence there is little value to the gardener in buying or growing them as plugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "6667674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6667674", "title": "Podlužje", "text": "Podlužje\n\nPodlužje () is a small geographical region in Serbia. It is located in south-eastern Syrmia. The western part of Podlužje belong to the autonomous province of Vojvodina, and the eastern part belongs to the city of Belgrade. The Serbian Orthodox Fenek monastery and natural reserve Obedska Pond are situated in this region, as well as the medieval town of Kupinik (today a village named Kupinovo), the former seat of the Serbian despots in Syrmia.\n\n"}
{"id": "25652673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25652673", "title": "Shala (surname)", "text": "Shala (surname)\n\nShala is an Albanian surname. It may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6420190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6420190", "title": "Slieve Gullion", "text": "Slieve Gullion\n\nSlieve Gullion ( or \"Sliabh Cuilinn\", \"Culann's mountain\") is a mountain in the south of County Armagh, Northern Ireland. The mountain is the heart of the Ring of Gullion and is the highest point in the county, with an elevation of . At the summit is a small lake and two ancient burial cairns, one of which is the highest surviving passage grave in Ireland. Slieve Gullion appears in Irish mythology, where it is associated with the Cailleach and the heroes Fionn mac Cumhaill and Cú Chulainn. It dominates the countryside around it, offering views as far away as Antrim, Dublin Bay and Wicklow on a clear day. Slieve Gullion Forest Park is on its eastern slope.\n\nVillages around Slieve Gullion include Meigh, Drumintee, Forkhill, Mullaghbawn and Lislea. The mountain gives its name to the surrounding countryside, and is the name of an electoral area within Newry and Mourne district.\n\nSlieve Gullion is a steep-sided mountain with a flat top and a height of . It is the eroded remains of a Paleocene volcanic complex. It is surrounded by a ring dike known as the Ring of Gullion, a designated Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB). Slieve Gullion has been shaped by glaciation and exhibits a classic 'crag and tail' glacial feature. The 'tail', made up of glacial deposits, points south, ending at Drumintee. The geological formation was the first ring dike to be mapped, although its significance was not understood until similar structures had been described from Scotland. The rocks of the area are complex and have featured in international geological debate since the 1950s. The site has attracted geologists from all over the world and featured in a number of theories that have been put forward to explain the unusual rock relationships. Some of these theories have now become an accepted part of geological science.\n\nMuch of Slieve Gullion is covered with forest, heather, or raw stone, while 612 hectares of dry heath on the mountain has been designated a Special Area of Conservation, an Environmentally Sensitive Area, and an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. In July 2006, some areas of gorse were destroyed by a wildfire which may have been started deliberately.\n\nTraces of fields on the mountain's poor soil from farming in earlier times can still be seen. There is also evidence of past quarrying.\n\nThere are two burial cairns on top of the mountain, on either side of a small lake. The southern one is a large passage tomb, the highest surviving passage tomb in Ireland. In 1961, a team of archaeologists explored the site and set up a 30-person camp near the summit. The tomb's cairn is 30 m (97 ft) wide and 5 m (16 ft) high. The chamber inside is 3.6 m (12 ft) wide, with a corbelled roof up to 4.3 m (14 ft) high. It contained three large blocks of stone seemingly used as basins, and fragments of human bone. Some bits of worked flint and a barbed-end arrowhead were also found, \"the meager remnants that survived the centuries of tomb raiding\". The entrance is aligned with the setting sun on the winter solstice. Radiocarbon dating suggests it was built c.3500–2900 BCE. The smaller cairn to the north of the lake was built later, perhaps during the Bronze Age. It contains two cist burials, with one containing bits of burnt bone; likely the remains of a single adult.\n\nThe two cairns were disturbed by American soldiers training there during World War II. Irish folklore holds that it is bad luck to damage or disrespect such tombs and that doing so could bring a curse. Today they are historic monuments protected by law. In recent years, volunteers have helped to repair the burial cairns under the supervision of an archaeologist.\n\nSlieve Gullion is popular with hillwalkers, with about 20,000 people climbing the mountain every year. A road leads to a small carpark about halfway up the western side of the mountain. From there is a trail leading to the summit. There is also a waymarked trail from the northern side of the mountain. As there is no security on the mountainside, cars parked there are often broken into by thieves, and police have asked visitors not to leave valuables in cars.\n\nOn the eastern side of the mountain is Slieve Gullion Forest Park, which includes a visitors' centre, café, playground, and the Giant's Lair Story Trail.\n\nSlieve Gullion appears in Irish mythology.\n\nIn the tale known as \"The Hunt of Slieve Gullion\", Áine and her sister Milucra both seek after the legendary hero Fionn mac Cumhaill (Finn McCool). Knowing that Áine vowed never to marry a man with grey hair, Milucra secretly puts a spell on the lake atop Slieve Gullion, so that anyone who swam in it would become elderly. She tricks Fionn by asking him to fetch her golden ring from the lake, and he emerges as an old man with grey-white hair. His men, the Fianna, force her to give him a restorative potion from her cornucopia. Fionn's youth returns, but his hair does not return to its true colour. This is said to be the origin of his name, Fionn, meaning 'white'. In some versions of the tale, Milucra is revealed to be the Cailleach Bhéara (Calliagh Birra), an ancient goddess.\n\nThe names of several features on the mountain refer to the Cailleach Bhéara. The passage grave is known as Calliagh Birra's House and the small lake is called Calliagh Birra's Lough. Lower down, on a hillock called Spellick, is a rock feature called the Calliagh Birra's Chair. Locals would visit it at Lughnasadh and take turns sitting on the chair.\n\nSlieve Gullion is said to be where the legendary hero Cú Chulainn (Cuhullin) received his name and where he spent his childhood as Sétanta.\n\nAccording to myth, the mountain is named after Culann the metalsmith. Culann invites Conchobhar mac Neasa, king of Ulster, to a feast at his house on the slopes of Slieve Gullion. On his way, Conchobhar stops at the playing field to watch the boys play hurling. He is so impressed by Sétanta's performance that he asks him to join him at the feast. Sétanta promises to join him after he finishes his game. Conchobhar goes ahead, but he forgets about Sétanta, and Culann lets loose his ferocious hound to guard his house. When Sétanta arrives, the hound attacks him, but he kills it; in one version by smashing it against a standing stone, in another by driving a sliotar (hurling ball) down its throat with his hurley. Culann is devastated by the loss of his hound, so Sétanta promises to rear him a replacement, and until it was old enough to do the job, he himself would guard Culann's house. The druid Cathbhadh announces that his name henceforth would be Cú Chulainn, \"Culann's Hound\".\n\nIn the \"Táin Bó Cuailnge\", the nearby Gap of the North is where Cú Chulainn single-handedly fends-off the army of queen Méabh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45419063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45419063", "title": "Strollology", "text": "Strollology\n\nStrollology or Promenadology is the \"science of strolling\" () as a method in the field of aesthetics and cultural studies with the aim of becoming aware of the conditions of perception of the environment and enhancement of environmental perception itself.\n\nBased on traditional methods in cultural studies as well as experimental practices like taking reflective walks and aesthetically interventions.\n\nThe term and special field of studies was created in the 1980s by the Swiss sociologist Lucius Burckhardt, who, at that time, was a professor at the University of Kassel, as an alternative to the technocratic centrally planned economy.\n\nWhy is Landscape Beautiful?: The Science of Strollology\n\n"}
{"id": "8390242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8390242", "title": "Sub-districts of Botswana", "text": "Sub-districts of Botswana\n\nThe districts of Botswana are subdivided into sub-districts. The sub-districts are listed below, by district:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32888279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32888279", "title": "Telephone numbers in Kyrgyzstan", "text": "Telephone numbers in Kyrgyzstan\n\nThe NSN length is nine digits.\n"}
{"id": "32824557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32824557", "title": "Telephone numbers in the Federated States of Micronesia", "text": "Telephone numbers in the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nCountry Code: +691<br>\nInternational Call Prefix: 011\n\nNational Significant Numbers (NSN): seven-digits\n\nFormat: +691 yyy xxxx\n\nThe number ranges before 2003 were:\n\nThe new number ranges after 2003 are:\n\n"}
{"id": "3904568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3904568", "title": "Thamel", "text": "Thamel\n\nThamel () is a commercial neighbourhood located in Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal. Thamel has been the centre of the tourist industry in Kathmandu for over four decades, starting from the hippie days when many artists came to Nepal and spent weeks in Thamel. It is the hottest-spot for tourism inside the Kathmandu valley.\n\nThamel is known by its narrow alleys crowded with various shops and vendors. Commonly sold goods include food, fresh vegetables/fruits, pastries, trekking gear, walking gear, music, DVDs, handicrafts, souvenirs, woolen items and clothes. Travel agencies, small grocery stores, budget hotels, restaurants, pubs and clubs also line the streets. Cars, cycle rickshaws, two-wheelers and taxis ply these narrow streets alongside hundreds of pedestrians. Recently many roads in Thamel have been declared vehicle free zones to avoid crowd and traffic havoc.\n\nThere are many restaurants in Thamel that serve traditional and continental cuisine, although prices are significantly higher than in non-tourist areas. Thamel also acts as the pre-base camp for mountaineers. It boasts a wide range of mountaineering gear shops, foreign money exchange booths, mobile phone shops, along with the numerous travel agents and guest houses. Thamel probably is the best place to enjoy night-life when you are in Kathmandu. Thamel is home to a wide range of the Nepalese population, and serves both entertainment and employment purposes for the locals around the area.\n\nOn Wednesday, 28 September 2011, Thamel was declared a full Wi-Fi zone. It is the first Wi-Fi zone of Nepal.\n\n"}
{"id": "56880407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56880407", "title": "The Signal From Tölva", "text": "The Signal From Tölva\n\nThe Signal From Tölva is an open world first-person shooter game developed and published by Big Robot. It was released on April 10, 2017 for Windows, MacOS and Linux. Taking place in the far future, the player character is a hacker-for-hire who hijacks a surveyor robot to investigate the barren world of Tölva in search of a strange signal. The game contains walking simulator elements, with tactical engagements being broken up by large segments of slow-paced exploration.\n\nThe game received mixed reviews from critics, who praised its setting and concept art-inspired aesthetic, but criticized its slow walking speed and the simplicity of its gameplay.\n\nThe player character is a mysterious hacker who was contacted by The Broker, who hired them to infiltrate The Surveyors, a faction of robots who are probing the planet Tölva. The player can remotely commandeer drones located on the planet's surface, but is opposed by two other robotic factions, the Zealots and Bandits, who will attack on sight.\n\nThe game alternates between combat in a first-person shooter style and exploration while traversing the planet's surface in a robot chassis. Robots have access to laser-based weaponry in the form of assault rifles and beam rifles. They also have a defensive shield system, and an area-of-effect attack that can disrupt enemies or heal allies. The player gains the ability to reprogram other robots to assist them in battle. \n\nDuring exploration segments, the player can use a scanner to search for hidden messages and upgrades. The game contains a day/night cycle. \n\nThe game's visual aesthetic was inspired by the concept art of Ian McQue, who also designed the robots featured in the game.\n\n\"The Signal From Tölva\" received mixed reviews, with an aggregate score of 69/100 on Metacritic.\n\nChris Schilling of PC Gamer rated the game 80/100, calling it a \"lean, intelligent sci-fi shooter\" with a \"fascinating setting\" and a \"watchmaker's eye for detail\". He criticized the fact that the game can be \"unfair\" due to the existence of friendly fire against allies and no way to defend and fortify bases from other factions. Edwin Evans-Thirlwell of Eurogamer called the game a \"dark, frustrating work\", praising the game's artistic style, story and sound, but criticized the \"strong element of grinding\", saying the game later becomes \"tedious\". Glenn Wigmore of IGN rated the game 6.5/10, calling its concept \"promising\" and its visuals and audio \"awe-inspiring\", but calling its movement speed \"plodding\" and the plot only \"partially\" compelling.\n"}
{"id": "1572569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1572569", "title": "Travellers Club", "text": "Travellers Club\n\nThe Travellers Club is a private gentlemen's club situated at 106 Pall Mall in London, United Kingdom. It is the oldest of the surviving Pall Mall clubs and one of the most exclusive, having been established in 1819. It was described as \"the quintessential English gentleman's club\" by the \"Los Angeles Times\" in 2004.\n\nThe original concept of the club, by Lord Castlereagh and others, dates from the conclusion of the Napoleonic Wars. They envisaged a club where gentlemen who travelled abroad might meet and offer hospitality to distinguished foreign visitors. The original rules of 1819 excluded from membership anyone \"“who has not travelled out of the British islands to a distance of at least five hundred miles from London in a direct line”\".\n\nThe members of the club's first Committee included the Earl of Aberdeen (later Prime Minister), Lord Auckland (after whom Auckland, New Zealand is named), the Marquess of Lansdowne (who had already served as Chancellor of the Exchequer and later refused office as Prime Minister) and Viscount Palmerston (later Foreign Secretary and Prime Minister).\n\nSubsequent members included statesmen and travellers such as Prime Minister George Canning, the Duke of Wellington, Lord John Russell, Prime Minister Arthur Balfour, Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin, Prime Minister Alec Douglas-Home, Francis Beaufort (creator of the Beaufort scale), Robert FitzRoy of HMS \"Beagle\", Sir William Edward Parry (explorer of the Northwest Passage), Sir Roderick Murchison (after whom the Murchison crater on the Moon is named) and Sir Wilfred Thesiger. Novelist Anthony Powell was a member, and the club is featured in various guises in the work of Graham Greene, Jules Verne, William Makepeace Thackeray and John le Carré.\n\nThe club's members include members of the British and foreign royal families, the British Foreign Secretary whilst in office, and various ambassadors to London; a tradition still continued today and there is also a special category of membership for particularly distinguished travellers, explorers and travel writers. Such well-known current members include Field Marshal Lord Bramall, and Terry Waite. Its membership remains exclusive, although there are a number of connections with other clubs throughout the world whose members may use its premises from time to time.\n\nJustin Welby, the Archbishop of Canterbury, announced in 2014 that he would resign from the club, owing to its refusal to admit women.\n\nThe club's original premises were at 12 Waterloo Place. It moved to 49 Pall Mall in 1821 (a building which had once been occupied by Brooks's). However, it quickly outgrew this building and in 1826 the members decided to spend £25,000 on the construction of a purpose built club house on the present site at 106 Pall Mall, backing onto Carlton gardens.\n\nThe architect was Sir Charles Barry who was later to be the architect for the Houses of Parliament, and the Travellers Club building proved to be one of his masterpieces. It takes the form of a Renaissance palace which is said to have been inspired by Raphael's Palazzo Pandolfini in Florence. It was completed in 1832, with the tower (which had been in Barry's original design) added in 1842.\n\nThe club building includes a smoking room (a large common room which looks over Carlton Gardens), the cocktail bar and adjacent Bramall room (which gives access to Carlton Gardens), the Outer Morning Room (a large drawing room overlooking Pall Mall, and connecting to an Inner Morning Room), and the dining room (known as the Coffee Room). \"The Times\" on 10 January 2004 noted \"the wonderful dining, heavy on fish and game (partridges to potted shrimps) with echoes of public school food (bread pudding) and a superb wine cellar\".\n\nThe magnificent library is decorated with a cast of the Bassae Frieze from the 5th century BCE Greek temple of Apollo Epicurius at Bassae. The originals of this frieze were discovered by the architect Charles Robert Cockerell, who was on the first Committee of the Club in 1819, and they are now in the British Museum. The library has a large and important collection of books, from the antiquarian to the modern, mainly on travel.\n\nThere are a number of bedrooms at the club for out-of-town members. The dress code is formal at all times.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19581502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19581502", "title": "Treasure House", "text": "Treasure House\n\nThe Treasure House is a historic building located in Staten Island, New York City, New York, US. Samuel Grasset, a tanner and leather worker, built the original construction in approximately 1700. Additions were made in 1740, 1790 and 1860. Subsequent owners of the house in subsequent centuries include a cord wainer (shoemaker), innkeeper, stonemason, and coach trimmer. A number of local businesses have also occupied the structure. The house was named after a legend that a cache of American Revolutionary War era gold coins was discovered during renovation in about 1860.\n\n\n"}
