{"id": "8652281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8652281", "title": "American Woolen Company", "text": "American Woolen Company\n\nThe American Woolen Company is a designer, manufacturer and distributor of men’s and women’s worsted and woolen fabrics. Based in Stafford Springs, Connecticut, the company operates from the 160-year-old Warren Mills, which it acquired from Loro Piana SpA in June 2014.\n\nThe American Woolen Company was established in 1899 under the leadership of William M. Wood and his father-in-law Frederick Ayer through the consolidation of eight financially troubled New England woolen mills. At the company's height in the 1920s, it owned and operated 60 woolen mills across New England. It is most known for its role in the Lawrence Textile Strike of 1912.\n\nThe American Woolen Company was the product of the era of trusts. Overproduction, competition and poor management had brought the New England textile industry to its knees by the 1890s. In particular, family trusts, the main shareholders of many of the mills, insisted on receiving high dividends instead of making necessary capital improvements. Frederick Ayer, successful Lowell merchant, purchased the Washington Mills in Lawrence, Massachusetts, and hired his son-in-law, William M. Wood to run it. Wood had already successfully turned around a bankrupt mill in Fall River. With Ayer's financial backing, Wood brought together various under-performing mills in the aim of reducing competition and increasing prices. He convinced investors to permit profits to be reinvested into new plants and machinery.\nIn 1901, the company purchased the failing Burlington Mills in Winooski, Vermont, and restored their profitability. These mills closed in 1954.\n\nIn 1905, the American Woolen Company built the largest mill in the world, the Wood Mill in Lawrence, followed by the neighboring Ayer Mill in 1909. The Ayer mill's 22 foot diameter 4-sided clocktower is only a foot smaller than Big Ben and purportedly only second to it in size in the world (among chiming 4-sided clocktowers).\n\nFollowing the 1912 Lawrence Textile Strike, the AWC was forced to increase wages. The company reached its apogee in the 1920s, when it controlled 20% of the country's woolen production. Most of these mill operations had started as 100% water-powered, but added coal-fueled steampower in the late 1800s as demand exceeded what could be provided by water alone. However, even though technology was continually updated, these unionized New England mills were unable to compete with non-unionized Southern mills able to produce staple woolen products, such as blankets, more cheaply. Additionally, fashions changed with the introduction of polyester and rayon, and demand for worsted wool plummeted by the mid-1920s. The two world wars were a boon to the AWC, keeping the company prosperous into 1945. American Woolen Company ranked 51st among United States corporations in the value of World War II military production contracts.\n\nIn 1902 the Company built New Village, a neighborhood of rental units for workers at its mill Maynard, Massachusetts.\n\nShawsheen Village which was Built in Andover Massachusetts in the former Frye Village, was built to house the middle to upper management of the American Woolen Company which was headquartered in Shawsheen Village in Andover Massachusetts. The village was divided into two distinct groups. One being red brick house built for upper management and one being white colonial style houses built for middle management.\n\nFollowing the end of the Korean War, government contracts ended. Virtually bankrupt, the American Woolen Co. was purchased by Textron and incorporated into its Amerotron division in 1955.\n\nIn 1966 an Uxbridge, Massachusetts-based, wool blanket contractor purchased the American Woolen Company trademark in order to better support its business activity of the manufacturing and distribution of woolen blankets for the American domestic market. In 1987, American Woolen sold its Uxbridge blanket manufacturing facility, relocated to Miami, Florida, and focused its activity on the importing and wholesaling of woolen blankets targeting relief organizations, municipalities, aid agencies and the general hospitality sector.\n\nIn 2013 an investment group led by Jacob Harrison Long completed the purchase, carve out and realignment of American Woolen Company’s business activity with the intent to focus the company on the design and manufacture of fine American-made worsted and woolen apparel fabrics.\n\nIn June 2014, American Woolen purchased the Warren Mills complex from Italian luxury apparel group Loro Piana SpA, which had owned and operated the mill for 26 years. Recognized as being \"on par with the best mills in Europe,” Stafford Springs, Connecticut based Warren Mills is American Woolen Company's headquarters where the company produces worsted wool for men's suits and cashmere and camel hair for coats. The acquisition was made with the assistance of the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development, which provided American Woolen Company with a loan and a grant to help cover the building acquisition costs. The acquisition was made with the intent to \"reintroduce luxury worsted and woolen textile manufacturing to the United States.”\n\nAmerican Woolen Company was created by the assimilation of the following mills, March 29, 1899:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1767", "title": "Ammianus Marcellinus", "text": "Ammianus Marcellinus\n\nAmmianus Marcellinus (born , died 400) was a Roman soldier and historian who wrote the penultimate major historical account surviving from antiquity (preceding Procopius). His work, known as the Res Gestae, chronicled in Latin the history of Rome from the accession of the Emperor Nerva in 96 to the death of Valens at the Battle of Adrianople in 378, although only the sections covering the period 353–378 survive.\n\nAmmianus was born in the Greek-speaking East, possibly in Syria or Phoenicia. His native language was most likely Greek; he learned Latin as a second language, and was probably familiar with Syriac as well. The surviving books of his history cover the years 353 to 378. \n\nAmmianus served as a soldier in the army of Constantius II and Julian in Gaul and Persia. He professes to have been \"a former soldier and a Greek\" (\"miles quondam et graecus\"), and his enrollment among the elite \"protectores domestici\" (household guards) shows that he was of middle class or higher birth. Consensus is that Ammianus probably came from a curial family, but it is also possible that he was the son of a \"comes Orientis\" of the same family name. He entered the army at an early age, when Constantius II was emperor of the East, and was sent to serve under Ursicinus, governor of Nisibis in Mesopotamia, and \"magister militum\".\nHe returned with Ursicinus to Italy when Ursicinus was recalled by Constantius to begin an expedition against Claudius Silvanus. Silvanus had been forced by the allegedly false accusations of his enemies into proclaiming himself emperor in Gaul. Ammianus campaigned in the East twice under Ursicinus. On one occasion, he became separated from the officer's entourage and took refuge in Amida during the siege of the city by the Sassanids under King Shapur II; he reportedly barely escaped with his life.\n\nWhen Ursicinus was dismissed from his military post by Constantius, Ammianus too seems to have retired from the military; however, reevaluation of his participation in Julian's Persian campaigns has led modern scholarship to suggest that he continued his service but did not for some reason include the period in his history.\nHe accompanied Julian, for whom he expresses enthusiastic admiration, in his campaigns against the Alamanni and the Sassanids. \nAfter Julian's death, Ammianus accompanied the retreat of the new emperor, Jovian, as far as Antioch. \nHe was residing in Antioch in 372 when a certain Theodorus was thought to have been identified the successor to the emperor Valens by divination. \nSpeaking as an alleged eyewitness, Marcellinus recounts how Theodorus and several others were made to confess their deceit through the use of torture, and cruelly punished.\nHe eventually settled in Rome and began the \"Res Gestae\". The precise year of his death is unknown, but scholarly consensus places it somewhere between 392 and 400 at the latest.\n\nModern scholarship generally describes Ammianus as a pagan who was tolerant of Christianity. Marcellinus writes of Christianity as being a pure and simple religion that demands only what is just and mild, and when he condemns the actions of Christians, he does not do so on the basis of their Christianity as such. His lifetime was marked by lengthy outbreaks of sectarian and dogmatic strife within the new state-backed faith, often with violent consequences (especially the Arian controversy) and these conflicts sometimes appeared unworthy to him, though it was territory where he could not risk going very far in criticism, due to the growing and volatile political connections between the church and imperial power.\n\nHe was not blind to the faults of Christians or of pagans; he observed in his \"Res Gestae\" that \"no wild beasts are so deadly to humans as most Christians are to each other.\" and he condemns his hero Julian for excessive attachment to (pagan) sacrifice, and for his edict effectively barring Christians from teaching posts.\n\nWhile living in Rome in the 380s, Ammianus wrote a Latin history of the Roman empire from the accession of Nerva (96) to the death of Valens at the Battle of Adrianople (378), in effect writing a continuation of the history of Tacitus. He presumably completed the work before 391, as at 22.16.12 he praises the Serapeum in Egypt as the glory of the empire; it was in that same year the Emperor granted the temple grounds to a Christian bishop, provoking pagans into barricading themselves in the temple, plundering its contents, and torturing Christians, ultimately destroying the temple. The \"Res Gestae\" (\"Rerum gestarum Libri XXXI\") was originally composed of thirty-one books, but the first thirteen have been lost (historian T.D. Barnes argues that the original was actually thirty-six books, which if correct would mean that eighteen books have been lost). The surviving eighteen books cover the period from 353 to 378. It constitutes the foundation of modern understanding of the history of the fourth century Roman Empire. It is lauded as a clear, comprehensive, and generally impartial account of events by a contemporary; like many ancient historians, however, Ammianus was in fact not impartial, although he expresses an intention to be so, and had strong moral and religious prejudices. Although criticised as lacking literary merit by his early biographers, he was in fact quite skilled in rhetoric, which significantly has brought the veracity of some of the \"Res Gestae\" into question.\n\nHis work has suffered substantially from manuscript transmission. Aside from the loss of the first thirteen books, the remaining eighteen are in many places corrupt and lacunose. The sole surviving manuscript from which almost every other is derived is a ninth-century Carolingian text, Vatican lat. 1873 (\"V\"), produced in Fulda from an insular exemplar. The only independent textual source for Ammianus lies in Fragmenta Marbugensia (\"M\"), another ninth-century Frankish codex which was taken apart to provide covers for account-books during the fifteenth century. Only six leaves of \"M\" survive; however, before this manuscript was dismantled the Abbot of Hersfeld lent the manuscript to Sigismund Gelenius, who used it in preparing the text of the second Froben edition (\"G\"). The dates and relationship of V and M were long disputed until 1936 when R. P. Robinson demonstrated persuasively that V was copied from M. As L.D. Reynolds summarizes, \"M is thus a fragment of the archetype; symptoms of an insular pre-archetype are evident.\"\n\nHis handling from his earliest printers was little better. The \"editio princeps\" was printed in 1474 in Rome by Georg Sachsel and Bartholomaeus Golsch, which broke off at the end of Book 26. The next edition (Bologna, 1517) suffered from its editor's conjectures upon the poor text of the 1474 edition; the 1474 edition was pirated for the first Froben edition (Basle, 1518). It was not until 1533 that the last five books of Ammianus' history were put into print by Silvanus Otmar and edited by Mariangelus Accursius. The first modern edition was produced by C.U. Clark (Berlin, 1910–1913). The first English translations were by Philemon Holland in 1609, and later by C.D. Yonge in 1862.\n\nEdward Gibbon judged Ammianus \"an accurate and faithful guide, who composed the history of his own times without indulging the prejudices and passions which usually affect the mind of a contemporary.\" But he also condemned Ammianus for lack of literary flair: \"The coarse and undistinguishing pencil of Ammianus has delineated his bloody figures with tedious and disgusting accuracy.\" Austrian historian praised Ammianus as \"the greatest literary genius that the world produced between Tacitus and Dante\".\n\nAccording to Kimberly Kagan, his accounts of battles emphasize the experience of the soldiers but at the cost of ignoring the bigger picture. As a result, it is difficult for the reader to understand why the battles he describes had the outcome they did.\n\nAmmianus' work contains a detailed description of the tsunami in Alexandria which devastated the metropolis and the shores of the eastern Mediterranean on 21 July 365. His report describes accurately the characteristic sequence of earthquake, retreat of the sea and sudden giant wave.\n\nAccording to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" Eleventh Edition, \"[i]t is a striking fact that Ammianus, though a professional soldier, gives excellent pictures of social and economic problems, and in his attitude to the non-Roman peoples of the empire he is far more broad-minded than writers like Livy and Tacitus; his digressions on the various countries he had visited are peculiarly interesting. In his description of the empire—the exhaustion produced by excessive taxation, the financial ruin of the middle classes, the progressive decline in the morale of the army—we find the explanation of its fall before the Goths twenty years after his death.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6621597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6621597", "title": "Ani Pachen", "text": "Ani Pachen\n\nAni Pachen (1933–2002) was a Tibetan freedom fighter and activist. \n\nPachen Dolma was born around 1933 in Gonjo, Kham, eastern Tibet. She was the only child of Chieftain elder son Pomda Gonor of the Lemdha clan, of the Phomda Tsang line.\n\nPachen took refuge in the Dharma when she was 8 years old and was subsequently initiated into the deity practice of Dorje Phurba, a Nyingma tradition. When she was 17, she discovered her father's plans to marry her off and attempted to run away to Gyalsay Rinpoche's monastery at Tromkhog. However, she returned after a few days of traveling with her father's promise to annul the engagement.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama and the PRC officially signed the Seventeen Point Agreement in 1951. Increasing tensions led her father to train her in the use of firearms and begin organizing militant resistance.\n\nFor the next few years, Pachen sat in on her father's administrative meetings with local chieftains. In 1954, Pachen and her mother spent 6 months in Gyalsay Rinpoche's monastery, during which she completed Ngondro, or preliminary religious training. She returned at the request of her father, who wanted to officially teach her the duties involved with being the heir to a chieftain.\n\nBy the end of 1956, tens of thousands of armed Khampas had taken to the surrounding hills in armed resistance. When her father died in 1958, she assumed her role as chieftainess of the Lemdha clan. In 1959, she rode at the head of their 600 resistance fighters into the nearby hills. Her clan joined with others from Derge and Lingkha Shipa.\n\nAfter news of eminent Chinese attack, Pachen returned to Lemdha to warn her family and gather their valuables. Their group grew to thousands as families from the towns of Derge, Lingkha Shipa and Markham fled with the ultimate plan of joining Chushi Gangdruk, the principal resistance group centered in Lhasa at the time. After rejoining the earlier Lemdha resistance fighters, Pachen aided in dividing the refugees into smaller, less visible groups, organized and dispatched defensive patrols, and actively engaged in armed warfare. During this migration, her group was aided by CIA paramilitary support.\n\nTheir camp was attacked by overwhelming Chinese forces in the area around the Pelbar village in Tingri County in late 1959, shortly after they heard of Chushi Gangdruk's defeat. Pachen, her mother, aunt, and grandmother took refuge in a nearby forest. They successfully traveled towards India for the next 25 days, until they were captured by Chinese forces along with around 300 other refugees.\n\nImmediately after being captured, Pachen and her family were held in nearby abandoned houses that served as temporary prisons. Over the course of a week, Pachen was interrogated and beaten. Soon after, many of the women, children and elderly people were released (including her mother, aunt, and grandmother), and Pachen was transferred to a 'collection center' in Lhodzong, where she was held for a month. She reported being the only woman held there.\n\nAfter that, Pachen was transferred to a monastery in Chamdo that was being used as a Chinese prison. For the next 10 months, she was regularly questioned, until she was transferred to another part of the monastery known as Deyong Nang, where she was further questioned and was forced to wear leg irons for over a year. She was held there from 1961 to 1963.\n\nIn 1963, she was moved to Silthog Thang, a prison 'where those...considered guilty of the most serious crimes were sent,' located between the Mekong (known as the Zachu river in Tibet) and Ngomchu river (a tributary of the Mekong). At Silthog Thang, she was sectioned according to gender and level of devotion. She was also held in isolation for 9 months after refusing to denounce her religion and rebuking an officer.\n\nAfter hearing that her mother was living and working in Kongpo and that a number of prisoners were being sent there, Pachen convinced the prison officers to transfer her as well. She spent a year there and was transferred to Drapchi prison, one of the most notorious Chinese prisons, in 1965. She was held there for 11 years. At Drapchi, she reported that prisoners were forced to wear a Chinese uniform and were forbidden to speak Tibetan, pray, or practice Tibetan customs.\n\nAfter Mao Zedong's death, Pachen was transferred to the 5th division of Tramo Dzong in Kongpo Nyingtri. She was released in 1981, after being imprisoned for 21 years. She was 48 years old.\n\nAfter her release from prison in January 1981, Pachen went on a pilgrimage. She visited the monasteries of Sera, Drepung, and Ganden, which had all been destroyed in the Cultural Revolution, during her imprisonment. Over the course of the next year, she visited monasteries in Lhokha, Shedra, Drolma Lhakhang, Dhalakhampo, and stayed for eight months in the Samye monastery. There, she learned the Buddhist practice Chud len, or Essence Extraction, and the Chöd practice, before deciding to return to Lhasa to continue support for the cause of Tibetan independence.\n\nShe advertised and participated in three notable demonstrations before fleeing to India; the September 27 and October 1 demonstrations of 1987 and the March 5 demonstration of 1988. In 1989, she discovered that she was to be arrested again and made plans to escape to Nepal over Mount Kailash. After 25 days, she was airlifted to Dharamshala. Her dream to meet the Dalai Lama came true when she was granted a personal audience soon after her arrival. She settled in the Gaden Choeling Nunnery in Dharamsala, India.\n\nAni Pachen's autobiography, \"Sorrow Mountain: the Journey of a Tibetan Warrior Nun\", was published in 2000, and she toured the United States and Europe. In 2001, she visited the United Kingdom at the invitation of the Tibet Society, and led the annual march through central London to commemorate the Lhasa Uprising.\n\nAni Pachen died in Dharamsala on February 2, 2002 of heart failure.\n\n"}
{"id": "7775585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7775585", "title": "Architectural sculpture", "text": "Architectural sculpture\n\nArchitectural sculpture is the use of sculptural techniques by an architect and/or sculptor in the design of a building, bridge, mausoleum or other such project. The sculpture is usually integrated with the structure, but freestanding works that are part of the original design are also considered to be architectural sculpture.\n\nIt has also been defined as, \"an integral part of a building or sculpture created especially to decorate or embellish an architectural structure.\" \n\nArchitectural sculpture has been employed by builders throughout history, and in virtually every continent on earth save pre-colonial Australia.\n\nModern understanding of ancient Egyptian architecture is based mainly on the religious monuments that have survived since antiquity, which are carved stone with post-and-lintel construction. These religious monuments dedicated to the gods or pharaohs were designed with a great deal of architectural sculpture inside and out: engaged statues, carved columns and pillars, and wall surfaces carved with bas-reliefs. The classic examples of Egyptian colossal monuments (the Great Sphinx of Giza, the Abu Simbel temples, the Karnak Temple Complex, etc.) represent thoroughly integrated combinations of architecture and sculpture.\n\nObelisks, elaborately carved from a single block of stone, were usually placed in pairs to flank the entrances to temples and pyramids. Reliefs are also common in Egyptian building, depicting scenes of everyday life and often accompanied by hieroglyphics.\n\nThe Fertile Crescent architectural sculptural tradition began when Ashurnasirpal II moved his capitol to the city of Nimrud around 879 BCE. This site was located near a major deposit of gypsum (alabaster). This fairly easy to cut stone could be quarried in large blocks that allowed them to be easily carved for the palaces that were built there. The early style developed out of an already flourishing mural tradition by creating drawings that were then carved in low relief. Another contributing factor in the development of architectural sculpture were the small carved seals that had been made in the area for centuries.\n\nClassical Greek architecture, like the prototypical Parthenon, incorporate architectural sculpture in a fairly narrow set of standard, formal building elements. The names of these elements still comprise the usual vocabulary for discussion: the pediment, the metope, the frieze, the caryatid, the quadriga, acroteria, etc.\n\nGreek examples of architectural sculpture are distinguished not only by their age but their very high quality and skillful technique, with rhythmic and dynamic modeling, figural compositions in friezes that continue seamlessly over vertical joints from one block of stone to the next, and mastery of depth and legibility.\n\nThe known Greek and Roman examples have been exhaustively studied, and frequently copied or adapted into subsequent neo-classical styles: Greek Revival architecture, usually the most strict; Neoclassical architecture; Beaux-Arts architecture with its exaggerated and romantic free interpretations of the vocabulary, and even Stalinist neo-classical architecture like the Central Moscow Hippodrome adapted to a totalitarian aesthetic. These re-interpretations are sometimes dubious, for instance, there are many modern copies of the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus, like the National Diet Building in Tokyo, despite the fact that all classical descriptions of the Mausoleum are vague.\n\nNot until about 1870 did the U.S. develop the talent, the economic power, and the taste for buildings grand enough to need architectural sculpture. The Philadelphia City Hall, constructed 1871 through 1901, is recognized as the turning point, because of the approximately 250 sculptures planned for the building, the large finial of William Penn, and the practical effect of Alexander Milne Calder training many assistants there.\n\nIn the same years, H.H. Richardson began to develop his influential signature genre, which included romantic, medieval, and Romanesque stone carving. Richard Morris Hunt became the first to bring the Parisian neo-classical École des Beaux-Arts style back to the United States, a style that depended on integrated figural sculpture and a highly ornamented building fabric for its aesthetic effect. The Beaux-Arts style dominated for major public buildings between the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, through about 1912, the year of the San Francisco City Hall. The need for sculptors saw the emergence of a small industry of carvers and modelers, and a professional organization, the National Sculpture Society.\n\nThe advent of steel frames and reinforced concrete encouraged, at first, more diverse building styles into the 1910s and 1920s. The diversity of skyscraper Gothic, exotic \"revivals\" of Mayan and Egyptian, Stripped Classicism, Art Deco, etc. called for a similar diversity of sculptural approaches. The use of sculpture was still expected, particularly for public buildings such as war memorials and museums. In 1926 the pre-eminent American architectural sculptor, Lee Lawrie, with his longtime friend and collaborator architect Bertram Goodhue, developed perhaps the most sophisticated American examples at the Nebraska State Capitol and the Los Angeles Public Library.\n\nGoodhue's premature death ended that collaboration. The Depression, and the onset of World War II, decimated building activity. The old building trades disbanded. By the postwar years the aesthetic of architectural modernism had taken hold. Except for a few diehards and regional sculptors, the profession was not only dead but discredited. As of 2010 there are isolated signs of a revival of interest, for instance in the career of Raymond Kaskey.\n\n"}
{"id": "1269598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1269598", "title": "Ata-Malik Juvayni", "text": "Ata-Malik Juvayni\n\nAtâ-Malek Juvayni (1226–1283) (), in full, Ala al-Din Ata-ullah (), was a Persian historian who wrote an account of the Mongol Empire entitled \"Tarīkh-i Jahān-gushā\" (\"History of the World Conqueror\").\n\nHe was born in Juvayn, a city in Khorasan in eastern Persia. Both his grandfather and his father, Baha al-Din, had held the post of \"sahib-divan\" or Minister of Finance for Muhammad Jalal al-Din and Ögedei Khan respectively. Baha al-Din also acted as deputy c. 1246 for his immediate superior, the emir Arghun, in which role he oversaw a large area including Kingdom of Georgia.\n\nJuvayni too became an important official of the empire. He visited the Mongol capital of Karakorum twice, beginning his history of the Mongols conquests on one such visit (c. 1252-53). He was with Ilkhan Hulagu in 1256 at the taking of Alamut and was responsible for saving part of its celebrated library. He had also accompanied Hulagu during the sack of Baghdad in 1258, and the next year was appointed governor of Baghdad, Lower Mesopotamia, and Khuzistan. Around 1282, Juvayni attended a Mongol \"quriltai,\" or assembly, held in the Ala-Taq pastures northeast of Lake Van. He died the following year in Mughan or Arran in Azerbaijan.\n\nJuvayni's brother was the powerful Shams al-Din Mohammad Sahib-Divan, who had served as Minister of Finance under Hulagu and Abaqa Khan. A skillful leader in his own right, Shams al-Din also had influential in-laws: his wife Khoshak was the daughter of Avag Mkhargrdzeli, Lord High Constable of Georgia, and Gvantsa, a noblewoman who went on to become queen of Georgia.\n\nJuvayni's own position at court and his family connections made him privy to information unavailable to other historians. For unknown reasons Juvayni's history terminates in 1260, more than twenty years before his death.\n\nThe standard edition of Juvayni's history is published under the title \"Tarīkh-i Jahān-gushā\", ed. Mirza Muhammad Qazwini, 3 vol, Gibb Memorial Series 16 (Leiden and London, 1912–37). An English translation by John Andrew Boyle \"The History of the World-Conqueror\" was republished in 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20609622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20609622", "title": "Babylon", "text": "Babylon\n\nBabylon was a key kingdom in ancient Mesopotamia from the 18th to 6th centuries BC. The city was built on the Euphrates river and divided in equal parts along its left and right banks, with steep embankments to contain the river's seasonal floods. Babylon was originally a small Akkadian town dating from the period of the Akkadian Empire .\n\nThe town became part of a small independent city-state with the rise of the First Babylonian dynasty in the 19th century BC. After the Amorite king Hammurabi created a short-lived empire in the 18th century BC, he built Babylon up into a major city and declared himself its king, and southern Mesopotamia became known as Babylonia and Babylon eclipsed Nippur as its holy city. The empire waned under Hammurabi's son Samsu-iluna and Babylon spent long periods under Assyrian, Kassite and Elamite domination. After being destroyed and then rebuilt by the Assyrians, Babylon became the capital of the short lived Neo-Babylonian Empire from 609 to 539 BC. The Hanging Gardens of Babylon was one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, although a number of scholars believe these were actually in the Assyrian capital of Nineveh. After the fall of the Neo-Babylonian Empire, the city came under the rule of the Achaemenid, Seleucid, Parthian, Roman, and Sassanid empires.\n\nIt has been estimated that Babylon was the largest city in the world , and again . It was perhaps the first city to reach a population above 200,000. Estimates for the maximum extent of its area range from 890 to .\n\nThe remains of the city are in present-day Hillah, Babil Governorate, Iraq, about south of Baghdad, comprising a large tell of broken mud-brick buildings and debris.\n\nThe main sources of information about Babylon—excavation of the site itself, references in cuneiform texts found elsewhere in Mesopotamia, references in the Bible, descriptions in classical writing (especially by Herodotus), and second-hand descriptions (citing the work of Ctesias and Berossus)—present an incomplete and sometimes contradictory picture of the ancient city even at its peak in the sixth century BC.\n\nThe English \"Babylon\" comes from Greek \"Babylṓn\" (), a transliteration of the Akkadian \"\" (cuneiform: KA.DIG̃IR.RA).\n\nArchibald Sayce, writing in the 1870s, considered \"Bab-ilu\" or \"Bab-ili\" to be the translation of an earlier Sumerian (formerly thought to be in the obsolete \"Turanian\" language-family) name \"Ca-dimirra\", meaning \"gate of god\", based on the characters KAN DIĜIR.RA (corresponding to the Sumerian phrase \"kan diĝirak\" \"god's gate\") or perhaps based on other characters.\n\nAccording to Professor Dietz-Otto Edzard, the city was originally called ', but by the time of the Third Dynasty of Ur, through a process of etymological speculation, had become ' meaning \"gate of god\" or \"god's gate\" (\"Bab-Il\"). The \"gate of god\" translation is increasingly viewed as a folk etymology to explain an unknown original non-Semitic placename. Linguist I.J. Gelb suggested in 1955 that \"Babil/Babilla\" is the basis of the city name, of unknown meaning and origin, as there were other similarly-named places in Sumer, and there are no other examples of Sumerian place-names being replaced with Akkadian translations. He deduced that it later transformed into Akkadian \"\", and that the Sumerian \"Ka-dig̃irra\" was a later translation of that, rather than vice versa. Joan Oates states in her book \"Babylon\" that the rendering \"Gateway of the gods\" is no longer accepted by modern scholars.\n\nIn the Bible, the name appears as \"Babel\" ( \"Bavel\",   \"Bāḇel\"; \"Bāwēl\", \"Babel\"; in \"Bābil\"), interpreted in the Hebrew Scriptures' Book of Genesis to mean \"confusion\", from the verb \"bilbél\" (, \"to confuse\"). The modern English verb, \"\" (\"to speak meaningless words\"), is popularly thought to derive from this name, but there is no direct connection.\n\nAncient records in some situations use \"Babylon\" as a name for other cities, including cities like Borsippa within Babylon's sphere of influence, and Nineveh for a short period after the Assyrian sack of Babylon.\n\nThe remains of the city are in present-day Hillah, Babil Governorate, Iraq, about south of Baghdad, comprising a large tell of broken mud-brick buildings and debris. The site at Babylon consists of a number of mounds covering an area of about , oriented north to south, along the Euphrates to the west. Originally, the river roughly bisected the city, but the course of the river has since shifted so that most of the remains of the former western part of the city are now inundated. Some portions of the city wall to the west of the river also remain.\n\nOnly a small portion of the ancient city (3% of the area within the inner walls; 1.5% of the area within the outer walls; 0.1% at the depth of Middle and Old Babylon) has been excavated. Known remains include:\n\nArchaeologists have recovered few artifacts predating the Neo-Babylonian period. The water table in the region has risen greatly over the centuries, and artifacts from the time before the Neo-Babylonian Empire are unavailable to current standard archaeological methods. Additionally, the Neo-Babylonians conducted significant rebuilding projects in the city, which destroyed or obscured much of the earlier record. Babylon was pillaged numerous times after revolting against foreign rule, most notably by the Hittites and Elamites in the 2nd millennium, then by the Neo-Assyrian Empire and the Achaemenid Empire in the 1st millennium. Much of the western half of the city is now beneath the river, and other parts of the site have been mined for commercial building materials.\n\nOnly the Koldewey expedition recovered artifacts from the Old Babylonian period. These included 967 clay tablets, stored in private houses, with Sumerian literature and lexical documents.\n\nNearby ancient settlements are Kish, Borsippa, Dilbat, and Kutha. Marad and Sippar were 60 km in either direction along the Euphrates.\n\nHistorical knowledge of early Babylon must be pieced together from epigraphic remains found elsewhere, such as at Uruk, Nippur, and Haradum.\n\nInformation on the Neo-Babylonian city is available from archaeological excavations and from classical sources. Babylon was described, perhaps even visited, by a number of classical historians including Ctesias, Herodotus, Quintus Curtius Rufus, Strabo, and Cleitarchus. These reports are of variable accuracy and some of the content was politically motivated, but these still provide useful information.\n\nReferences to the city of Babylon can be found in Akkadian and Sumerian literature from the late third millennium BC. One of the earliest is a tablet describing the Akkadian king Šar-kali-šarri laying the foundations in Babylon of new temples for Annūnı̄tum and Ilaba. Babylon also appears in the administrative records of the Third Dynasty of Ur, which collected in-kind tax payments and appointed an \"ensi\" as local governor.\n\nThe so-called Weidner Chronicle (also known as \"ABC 19\") states that Sargon of Akkad ( in the short chronology) had built Babylon \"in front of Akkad\" (ABC 19:51). A later chronicle states that Sargon \"dug up the dirt of the pit of Babylon, and made a counterpart of Babylon next to Akkad\". (ABC 20:18–19). Van de Mieroop has suggested that those sources may refer to the much later Assyrian king Sargon II of the Neo-Assyrian Empire rather than Sargon of Akkad.\n\nCtesias, quoted by Diodorus Siculus and in George Syncellus's \"Chronographia\", claimed to have access to manuscripts from Babylonian archives, which date the founding of Babylon to 2286 BC, under the reign of its first king, Belus. A similar figure is found in the writings of Berossus, who according to Pliny, stated that astronomical observations commenced at Babylon 490 years before the Greek era of Phoroneus, indicating 2243 BC. Stephanus of Byzantium wrote that Babylon was built 1002 years before the date given by Hellanicus of Lesbos for the siege of Troy (1229 BC), which would date Babylon's foundation to 2231 BC. All of these dates place Babylon's foundation in the 23rd century BC; however, cuneiform records have not been found to correspond with these classical (post-cuneiform) accounts.\n\nBy around the 19th century BC, much of southern Mesopotamia was occupied by Amorites, nomadic tribes from the northern Levant who were Northwest Semitic speakers, unlike the native Akkadians of southern Mesopotamia and Assyria, who spoke East Semitic. The Amorites at first did not practice agriculture like more advanced Mesopotamians, preferring a semi-nomadic lifestyle, herding sheep. Over time, Amorite grain merchants rose to prominence and established their own independent dynasties in several south Mesopotamian city-states, most notably Isin, Larsa, Eshnunna, Lagash, and later, founding Babylon as a state.\n\nAccording to a Babylonian date list, Amorite rule in Babylon began () with a chieftain named Sumu-abum, who declared independence from the neighboring city-state of Kazallu. Sumu-la-El, whose dates may be concurrent with those of Sumu-abum, is usually given as the progenitor of the First Babylonian Dynasty. Both are credited with building the walls of Babylon. In any case, the records describe Sumu-la-El's military successes establishing a regional sphere of influence for Babylon.\n\nBabylon was initially a minor city-state, and controlled little surrounding territory; its first four Amorite rulers did not assume the title of king. The older and more powerful states of Assyria, Elam, Isin, and Larsa overshadowed Babylon until it became the capital of Hammurabi's short lived empire about a century later. Hammurabi (r. 1792–1750 BC) is famous for codifying the laws of Babylonia into the \"Code of Hammurabi\". He conquered all of the cities and city states of southern Mesopotamia, including Isin, Larsa, Ur, Uruk, Nippur, Lagash, Eridu, Kish, Adab, Eshnunna, Akshak, Akkad, Shuruppak, Bad-tibira, Sippar, and Girsu, coalescing them into one kingdom, ruled from Babylon. Hammurabi also invaded and conquered Elam to the east, and the kingdoms of Mari and Ebla to the northwest. After a protracted struggle with the powerful Assyrian king Ishme-Dagan of the Old Assyrian Empire, he forced his successor to pay tribute late in his reign, spreading Babylonian power to Assyria's Hattian and Hurrian colonies in Asia Minor.\n\nAfter the reign of Hammurabi, the whole of southern Mesopotamia came to be known as Babylonia, whereas the north had already coalesced centuries before into Assyria. From this time, Babylon supplanted Nippur and Eridu as the major religious centers of southern Mesopotamia. Hammurabi's empire destabilized after his death. Assyrians defeated and drove out the Babylonians and Amorites. The far south of Mesopotamia broke away, forming the native Sealand Dynasty, and the Elamites appropriated territory in eastern Mesopotamia. The Amorite dynasty remained in power in Babylon, which again became a small city state.\n\nTexts from Old Babylon often include references to Shamash, the sun-god of Sippar, treated as a supreme deity, and Marduk, considered as his son. Marduk was later elevated to a higher status and Shamash lowered, perhaps reflecting Babylon's rising political power\n\nIn 1595 BC the city was overthrown by the Hittite Empire from Asia Minor. Thereafter, Kassites from the Zagros Mountains of north western Ancient Iran captured Babylon, ushering in a dynasty that lasted for 435 years, until 1160 BC. The city was renamed Karanduniash during this period. Kassite Babylon eventually became subject to the Middle Assyrian Empire (1365–1053 BC) to the north, and Elam to the east, with both powers vying for control of the city. The Assyrian king Tukulti-Ninurta I took the throne of Babylon in 1235 BC.\n\nBy 1155 BC, after continued attacks and annexing of territory by the Assyrians and Elamites, the Kassites were deposed in Babylon. An Akkadian south Mesopotamian dynasty then ruled for the first time. However, Babylon remained weak and subject to domination by Assyria. Its ineffectual native kings were unable to prevent new waves of foreign West Semitic settlers from the deserts of the Levant, including the Arameans and Suteans in the 11th century BC, and finally the Chaldeans in the 9th century BC, entering and appropriating areas of Babylonia for themselves. The Arameans briefly ruled in Babylon during the late 11th century BC.\n\nDuring the rule of the Neo-Assyrian Empire (911–609 BC), Babylonia was under constant Assyrian domination or direct control.\nDuring the reign of Sennacherib of Assyria, Babylonia was in a constant state of revolt, led by a chieftain named Merodach-Baladan, in alliance with the Elamites, and suppressed only by the complete destruction of the city of Babylon. In 689 BC, its walls, temples and palaces were razed, and the rubble was thrown into the Arakhtu, the sea bordering the earlier Babylon on the south. Destruction of the religious center shocked many, and the subsequent murder of Sennacherib by two of his own sons while praying to the god Nisroch was considered an act of atonement. Consequently, his successor Esarhaddon hastened to rebuild the old city and make it his residence during part of the year. After his death, Babylonia was governed by his elder son, the Assyrian prince Shamash-shum-ukin, who eventually started a civil war in 652 BC against his own brother, Ashurbanipal, who ruled in Nineveh. Shamash-shum-ukin enlisted the help of other peoples subject to Assyria, including Elam, Persia, Chaldeans, and Suteans of southern Mesopotamia, and the Canaanites and Arabs dwelling in the deserts south of Mesopotamia.\n\nOnce again, Babylon was besieged by the Assyrians, starved into surrender and its allies were defeated. Ashurbanipal celebrated a \"service of reconciliation\", but did not venture to \"take the hands\" of Bel. An Assyrian governor named Kandalanu was appointed as ruler of the city. Ashurbanipal did collect texts from Babylon for inclusion in his extensive library at Ninevah.\n\nAfter the death of Ashurbanipal, the Assyrian empire destabilized due to a series of internal civil wars throughout the reigns of Assyrian kings Ashur-etil-ilani, Sin-shumu-lishir and Sinsharishkun. Eventually Babylon, like many other parts of the near east, took advantage of the anarchy within Assyria to free itself from Assyrian rule. In the subsequent overthrow of the Assyrian Empire by an alliance of peoples, the Babylonians saw another example of divine vengeance.\n\nUnder Nabopolassar, a previously unknown Chaldean chieftain, Babylon escaped Assyrian rule, and in an alliance with Cyaxares, king of the Medes and Persians together with the Scythians and Cimmerians, finally destroyed the Assyrian Empire between 612 BC and 605 BC. Babylon thus became the capital of the Neo-Babylonian (sometimes and possibly erroneously called the Chaldean) Empire.\n\nWith the recovery of Babylonian independence, a new era of architectural activity ensued, particularly during the reign of his son Nebuchadnezzar II (604–561 BC). Nebuchadnezzar ordered the complete reconstruction of the imperial grounds, including the Etemenanki ziggurat, and the construction of the Ishtar Gate—the most prominent of eight gates around Babylon. A reconstruction of the Ishtar Gate is located in the Pergamon Museum in Berlin.\n\nNebuchadnezzar is also credited with the construction of the Hanging Gardens of Babylon—one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World—said to have been built for his homesick wife Amyitis. Whether the gardens actually existed is a matter of dispute. German archaeologist Robert Koldewey speculated that he had discovered its foundations, but many historians disagree about the location. Stephanie Dalley has argued that the hanging gardens were actually located in the Assyrian capital, Nineveh.\n\nNebuchandnezzar is also notoriously associated with the Babylonian exile of the Jews, the result of an imperial technique of pacification, used also by the Assyrians, in which ethnic groups in conquered areas were deported en masse to the capital.\n\nIn 539 BC, the Neo-Babylonian Empire fell to Cyrus the Great, king of Persia, with a military engagement known as the Battle of Opis. Babylon's walls were considered impenetrable. The only way into the city was through one of its many gates or through the Euphrates River. Metal grates were installed underwater, allowing the river to flow through the city walls while preventing intrusion. The Persians devised a plan to enter the city via the river. During a Babylonian national feast, Cyrus' troops diverted the Euphrates River upstream, allowing Cyrus' soldiers to enter the city through the lowered water. The Persian army conquered the outlying areas of the city while the majority of Babylonians at the city center were unaware of the breach. The account was elaborated upon by Herodotus and is also mentioned in parts of the Hebrew Bible. (Herodotus also described a moat, an enormously tall and broad wall cemented with bitumen and with buildings on top, and a hundred gates to the city. He also writes that the Babylonians wear turbans and perfume and bury their dead in honey, that they practice ritual prostitution, and that three tribes among them eat nothing but fish. The hundred gates can be considered a reference to Homer, and following the pronouncement of Archibald Henry Sayce in 1883, Herodotus's account of Babylon has largely been considered to represent Greek folklore rather than an authentic voyage to Babylon. However, recently, Dalley and others have suggested taking Herodotus's account seriously.)\nAccording to 2 Chronicles 36 of the Hebrew Bible, Cyrus later issued a decree permitting captive people, including the Jews, to return to their own lands. Text found on the Cyrus Cylinder has traditionally been seen by biblical scholars as corroborative evidence of this policy, although the interpretation is disputed because the text only identifies Mesopotamian sanctuaries but makes no mention of Jews, Jerusalem, or Judea.\n\nUnder Cyrus and the subsequent Persian king Darius I, Babylon became the capital city of the 9th Satrapy (Babylonia in the south and Athura in the north), as well as a center of learning and scientific advancement. In Achaemenid Persia, the ancient Babylonian arts of astronomy and mathematics were revitalized, and Babylonian scholars completed maps of constellations. The city became the administrative capital of the Persian Empire and remained prominent for over two centuries. Many important archaeological discoveries have been made that can provide a better understanding of that era.\n\nThe early Persian kings had attempted to maintain the religious ceremonies of Marduk, but by the reign of Darius III, over-taxation and the strain of numerous wars led to a deterioration of Babylon's main shrines and canals, and the destabilization of the surrounding region. There were numerous attempts at rebellion and in 522 BC (Nebuchadnezzar III), 521 BC (Nebuchadnezzar IV) and 482 BC (Bel-shimani and Shamash-eriba) native Babylonian kings briefly regained independence. However these revolts were quickly repressed and Babylon remained under Persian rule for two centuries, until Alexander the Great's entry in 331 BC.\n\nIn October of 331 BC, Darius III, the last Achaemenid king of the Persian Empire, was defeated by the forces of the Ancient Macedonian Greek ruler Alexander the Great at the Battle of Gaugamela. A native account of this invasion notes a ruling by Alexander not to enter the homes of its inhabitants.\n\nUnder Alexander, Babylon again flourished as a center of learning and commerce. However, following Alexander's death in 323 BC in the palace of Nebuchadnezzar, his empire was divided amongst his generals, the Diadochi, and decades of fighting soon began. The constant turmoil virtually emptied the city of Babylon. A tablet dated 275 BC states that the inhabitants of Babylon were transported to Seleucia, where a palace and a temple (Esagila) were built. With this deportation, Babylon became insignificant as a city, although more than a century later, sacrifices were still performed in its old sanctuary.\n\nUnder the Parthian and Sassanid Empires, Babylon (like Assyria) became a province of these Persian Empires for nine centuries, until after AD 650. It maintained its own culture and people, who spoke varieties of Aramaic, and who continued to refer to their homeland as Babylon. Examples of their culture are found in the Babylonian Talmud, the Gnostic Mandaean religion, Eastern Rite Christianity and the religion of the prophet Mani. Christianity was introduced to Mesopotamia in the 1st and 2nd centuries AD, and Babylon was the seat of a Bishop of the Church of the East until well after the Arab/Islamic conquest.\n\nIn the mid-7th century, Mesopotamia was invaded and settled by the expanding Muslim Empire, and a period of Islamization followed. Babylon was dissolved as a province and Aramaic and Church of the East Christianity eventually became marginalized. Ibn Hauqal mentions a small village called Babel in the tenth century; subsequent travelers describe only ruins.\n\nBabylon is mentioned in medieval Arabic writings as a source of bricks, said to have been used in cities from Baghdad to Basra.\n\nEuropean travelers in many cases could not discover the city's location, or mistook Fallujah for it. Twelfth-century traveler Benjamin of Tudela mentions Babylon but it is not clear if he really went there. Others referred to Baghdad as Babylon or New Babylon and described various structures encountered in the region as the Tower of Babel. Pietro della Valle found the ancient site in the seventeenth century and noted the existence of both baked and dried mudbricks cemented with bitumen.\n\nThe eighteenth century saw an increasing flow of travelers to Babylon, including Carsten Niebuhr and Pierre-Joseph de Beauchamp, as well as measurements of its latitude. Beauchamp's memoir, published in English translation in 1792, provoked the British East India Company to direct its agents in Baghdad and Basra to acquire Mesopotamian relics for shipment to London.\n\nClaudius Rich, working for the East India Company in Baghdad, excavated Babylon in 1811–12 and again in 1817. Robert Mignan excavated at the site briefly in 1827. William Loftus visited there in 1849.\n\nAusten Henry Layard made some soundings during a brief visit in 1850 before abandoning the site. Fulgence Fresnel and Julius Oppert heavily excavated Babylon from 1852 to 1854. However, many of the fruits of their work were lost when a raft containing over forty crates of artifacts sank into the Tigris river.\n\nSir Henry Rawlinson, 1st Baronet and George Smith worked there briefly in 1854. The next excavation was conducted by Hormuzd Rassam on behalf of the British Museum. Work began in 1879, continuing until 1882, and was prompted by widespread looting of the site. Using industrial scale digging in search of artifacts, Rassam recovered a large quantity of cuneiform tablets and other finds. The zealous excavation methods, common at the time, caused significant damage to the archaeological context. Many tablets had appeared on the market in 1876 before Rassam's excavation began.\n\nA team from the German Oriental Society led by Robert Koldewey conducted the first scientific archaeological excavations at Babylon. The work was conducted daily from 1899 until 1917. Primary efforts of the dig involved the temple of Marduk and the processional way leading up to it, as well as the city wall. Artifacts including pieces of the Ishtar Gate and hundreds of recovered tablets were sent back to Germany, where Koldewey's colleague Walter Andrae reconstructed them into displays at Vorderasiatisches Museum Berlin., The German archaeologists fled before oncoming British troops in 1917 and again many objects went missing in the following years.\n\nFurther work by the German Archaeological Institute was conducted by Heinrich J. Lenzen in 1956 and Hansjörg Schmid in 1962. Lenzen's work dealt primarily with the Hellenistic theatre, and Schmid focused on the temple ziggurat Etemenanki.\n\nThe site was excavated in 1974 on behalf of the Turin Centre for Archaeological Research and Excavations in the Middle East and Asia and the Iraqi-Italian Institute of Archaeological Sciences. The focus was on clearing up issues raised by re-examination of the old German data. Additional work in 1987–1989 concentrated on the area surrounding the Ishara and Ninurta temples in the Shu-Anna city-quarter of Babylon.\n\nDuring the restoration efforts in Babylon, the Iraqi State Organization for Antiquities and Heritage conducted extensive research, excavation and clearing, but wider publication of these archaeological activities has been limited. Indeed, most of the known tablets from all modern excavation remain unpublished.\n\nThe site of Babylon has been a cultural asset to Iraq since the creation of the modern Iraqi government in 1920. Babylonian images periodically appear on Iraqi postcards and stamps. In the 1960s a replica of the Ishtar gate and a reconstruction of Ninmakh temple were built on site.\n\nOn 14 February 1978, the Baathist government of Iraq under Saddam Hussein began the \"Archaeological Restoration of Babylon Project\": reconstructing features of the ancient city atop its ruins. These features included the Southern Palace of Nebuchandnezzar, with 250 rooms, five courtyards, and a 30-meter entrance arch. The project also reinforced the Processional Way, the Lion of Babylon, and an amphitheater constructed in the city's Hellenistic era. In 1982 the government minted a set of seven coins displaying iconic features of Babylon. A Babylon International Festival was held in September 1987, and annually thereafter until 2002 (excepting 1990 and 1991), to showcase this work. Proposed reconstruction of the Hanging Gardens and the great ziggurat never took place.\n\nHussein installed a portrait of himself and Nebuchadnezzar at the entrance to the ruins and inscribed his name on many of the bricks, in imitation of Nebuchadnezzar. One frequent inscription reads: \"This was built by Saddam Hussein, son of Nebuchadnezzar, to glorify Iraq\". These bricks became sought after as collectors' items after Hussein's downfall. Similar projects were conducted at Nineveh, Nimrud, Assur and Hatra, to demonstrate the magnificence of Arab achievement.\n\nWhen the 1991 Gulf War ended, Hussein wanted to build a modern palace called Saddam Hill over some of the old ruins, in the pyramidal style of a ziggurat. In 2003, he intended the construction of a cable car line over Babylon, but plans were halted by the 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\nFollowing the 2003 invasion of Iraq, the area around Babylon came under the control of US troops, before being handed over to Polish forces in September 2003. US forces under the command of General James T. Conway of the I Marine Expeditionary Force were criticized for building the military base \"Camp Alpha\", with a helipad and other facilities on ancient Babylonian ruins during the Iraq War. US forces have occupied the site for some time and have caused irreparable damage to the archaeological record. In a report of the British Museum's Near East department, Dr. John Curtis described how parts of the archaeological site were levelled to create a landing area for helicopters, and parking lots for heavy vehicles. Curtis wrote of the occupation forces:\n\nA US Military spokesman claimed that engineering operations were discussed with the \"head of the Babylon museum\". The head of the Iraqi State Board for Heritage and Antiquities, Donny George, said that the \"mess will take decades to sort out\" and criticised Polish troops for causing \"terrible damage\" to the site. Poland resolved in 2004 to place the city under Iraq control, and commissioned a report titled \"Report Concerning the Condition of the Preservation of the Babylon Archaeological Site\", which it presented at a meeting on 11–13 December 2004. In 2005 the site was handed over to the Iraqi Ministry of Culture.\n\nIn April 2006, Colonel John Coleman, former Chief of Staff for the 1st Marine Expeditionary Force, offered to issue an apology for the damage done by military personnel under his command. However, he also claimed that the US presence had deterred far greater damage by other looters. An article published in April 2006 stated that UN officials and Iraqi leaders have plans to restore Babylon, making it into a cultural center.\n\nTwo museums and a library, containing replicas of artifacts and local maps and reports, were raided and destroyed.\n\nIn May 2009, the provincial government of Babil reopened the site to tourists, but not many have come. An oil pipeline runs through an outer wall of the city.\n\nBefore modern archaeological excavations in Mesopotamia, the appearance of Babylon was largely a mystery, and typically envisioned by Western artists as a hybrid between ancient Egyptian, classical Greek, and contemporary Ottoman culture.\n\nDue to Babylon's historical significance as well as references to it in the Bible, the word \"Babylon\" in various languages has acquired a generic meaning of a large, bustling diverse city. Examples include:\n\nIn , Babel (Babylon) is described as founded by Nimrod along with Uruk, Akkad and perhaps Calneh—all of them in Shinar (\"Calneh\" is now sometimes translated not as a proper name but as the phrase \"all of them\"). Another story is given in Genesis 11, which describes a united human race, speaking one language, migrating to Shinar to establish a city and tower—the Tower of Babel. God halts construction of the tower by scattering humanity across the earth and confusing their communication so they are unable to understand each other in the same language.\n\nBabylon appears throughout the Hebrew Bible, including several prophecies and in descriptions of the destruction of Jerusalem and subsequent Babylonian captivity. Consequently, in Jewish tradition, Babylon symbolizes an oppressor against which righteous believers must struggle. In Christianity, Babylon symbolizes worldliness and evil. Prophecies sometimes symbolically link the kings of Babylon with Lucifer. Nebuchadnezzar, sometimes conflated with Nabonidus, appears as the foremost ruler in this narrative.\n\nThe Book of Revelation in the Christian Bible refers to Babylon many centuries after it ceased to be a major political center. The city is personified by the \"Whore of Babylon\", riding on a scarlet beast with seven heads and ten horns, and drunk on the blood of the righteous. Some scholars of apocalyptic literature believe this New Testament \"Babylon\" to be a dysphemism for the Roman Empire.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30876804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876804", "title": "Badagry", "text": "Badagry\n\nBadagry (traditionally Gbagle) is a coastal town and local government area (LGA) in Lagos State, Nigeria. It is between the city of Lagos and the border with Benin at Seme. As of the preliminary 2006 census results, the municipality had a population of 241,093.\n\nBadagry is situated on the south-west coast of Nigeria, bordered by the Gulf of Guinea to the south, it is 43 miles southeast of Lagos and 32 miles west of Seme, a border town in Benin Republic. Like Lagos Island, it is on the bank of inland lagoons, a system of creeks, waterways that are navigable to Lagos and Porto Novo. The distance between the lagoon and the ocean varies along the coast, in Badagry, the distance is about a mile. The depth of the lagoon varies according to the season, from highs of 3 meters to lows of a meter. The lagoons have a diverse fish population that includes bonga, croaker, longfin pompano, tilapia and catfish. The lagoon consists of brackish and freshwater with seasonal variability, west of Badagry, Yewa River provides water inflow to the lagoon.\n\nThere is a traditional Yoruba narrative that the first settlement within the area was an Awori group originally from Ile-Ife who lived at a nearby settlement. Robin Law, a scholar on West African history, notes an origin that sprouted out of a resettlement for displaced peoples of varied ethnic groups mostly Ogu people and Oyo Yorubas. Another source links the people living at a settlement called Gberefu, an island along the coast. \n\nOne of the recorded notable events in the history of the town was the acquisition of land by a European trader who was locally known as Yovo Huntokonu. Many sources identify the European to be a Dutch trader called Hendrik Hertogh. Huntokonu, who came from the west, settled in the town because he was fleeing the wrath of an African chief. He reached the settlement called Apa under the Obaship of Alapa and he was given a farmland to use for trading.\n\nAround 1736, Huntokonu set up a trading post which began the growth of Badagri main town as a center of trade. Eastward migration into Badagry contributed to the growth of the town. Badagry provided waterways to Lagos and to the interior which enhanced its commercial location. However, the rise of Badagry led to hostilities with Ouidah, which sacked the town in 1784.\n\nCommercial activities of slave traders were less in Badagri than in Bonny, Angola, Ouidah, and Calabar; in 1865, slaves transported out of Badagri were 800, while at Porto Novo, the figure was 1,200, and at Ouidah, up to 5,000 slaves were transported. The peak period of the slave trade in the city state was between 1736 and 1789, but the trade continued to the early nineteenth century. The trade was dominated by Portuguese and Brazilian traders. After the British abolished the slave trade, notable trader Francisco Félix de Sousa migrated to Badagri around 1807.\n\nThe Congress of Berlin in 1884–1885, led to the displacement of the Gbe ethnolinguistic groups in the area, with especially the Badagry-Ogu ethnic group falling under the British rule, and marginalized through being removed from the rest of the ethnoliguistic group.\n\n"}
{"id": "15775269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15775269", "title": "Barry Gustafson", "text": "Barry Gustafson\n\nBarry Selwyn Gustafson (born 1938) is a New Zealand political scientist and historian, and a leading political biographer. He served for nearly four decades as Professor of Political Studies at the University of Auckland, and as Acting Director of the New Zealand Asia Institute from 2004 to 2006. He has contested various general elections, first for the Labour Party and later for the National Party, coming second each time.\n\nBarry Selwyn Gustafson was born in Auckland in 1938. He was educated at Auckland, Massey and Glasgow Universities (BA 1960, MA 1962, PhD 1974).\n\nHe was a member of the Labour Party from 1954 to 1981, and stood in two general elections as a candidate; in and in . In 1960, he contested the \"blue-ribbon\" electorate and lost by 6109 votes to National's Ronald Algie. In 1966, he contested the electorate and narrowly lost by 258 votes by National's Rona Stevenson. He wrote that National was afraid of losing the seat so poured \"thousands of dollars\" into the campaign. A hundred Waikato women canvassed every house in Tokoroa and Putaruru over two days, using the \"street lists and blue dot system\".\n\nIn 1968 he joined the staff at Auckland University, and during his long tenure at Auckland he has authored several leading books on the topic of New Zealand politics. He wrote \"Social Change and Party Reorganisation\" (1976) and \"Labour’s Path to Political Independence\" (1980) while still a Labour Party member, but after completing \"The First 50 Years: A History of the New Zealand National Party\" (1986) changed allegiance to National. In 1986 he also published \"From the Cradle to the Grave: A Biography of Michael Joseph Savage\".\n\nIn 1987 he stood as a National candidate for the Birkenhead electorate to replace the retiring Jim McLay, but was defeated by the Labour candidate, Jenny Kirk.\n\nDuring the 1990s Gustafson was given a number of international academic appointments, including visiting researcher at Stanford University and the European Union in 1990, and research at a number of American and British Universities in 1994. In 1997 Gustafson was Fulbright Visiting Professor at Georgetown University. From 1998 to 2002 Gustafson was appointed Head of the Political Studies Department, and he was also Pro Vice-Chancellor (International) of the University from 2001 to 2002. In 2000 he published \"His Way: A Biography of Robert Muldoon\".\n\nGustafson's teaching interests are predominantly the European Union, civil society, the development of New Zealand’s political culture and parties, political leadership and power, and interdisciplinary studies. For 25 years he also taught Soviet and East European Studies.\n\nIn 2004 Gustafson retired as Professor of Political Studies, and was appointed Acting Director of the New Zealand Asia Institute, a position he held until 2006. In this time he helped to establish a New Zealand Studies Centre at Peking University. In 2007 he published \"Kiwi Keith: A Biography of Keith Holyoake\".\n\nGustafson has also served as Chairman of the Council of the Auckland College of Education (1992–1997), and Associate Dean of Arts (Research 2000). He chaired the Advisory Committee to the School of European Languages and Literatures from 1999 to 2001, and was a member of the Board and Management Committee of the New Zealand Asia Institute, 2001–2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "310706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310706", "title": "Carolyn Merchant", "text": "Carolyn Merchant\n\nCarolyn Merchant (born July 12, 1936 in Rochester, New York) is an American ecofeminist philosopher and historian of science most famous for her theory (and book of the same title) on 'The Death of Nature', whereby she identifies the Enlightenment as the period when science began to atomize, objectify and dissect nature, foretelling its eventual conception as inert. Her works were important in the development of environmental history and the history of science. She is Professor of Environmental History, Philosophy, and Ethics at UC Berkeley.\n\nShe writes, \"The female earth was central to organic cosmology that was undermined by the Scientific Revolution and the rise of a market-oriented culture...for sixteenth-century Europeans the root metaphor binding together the self, society and the cosmos was that of an organism...organismic theory emphasized interdependence among the parts of the human body, subordination of individual to communal purposes in family, community, and state, and vital life permeate the cosmos to the lowliest stone.\" (Merchant, \"The Death of Nature\", 1980: 278)\n\nMerchant tells us that prior to the Enlightenment, Nature was conceived of as the benevolent mother of all things, albeit sometimes wild. This metaphor was to gradually be replaced by the 'dominion' model as the Scientific Revolution rationalized and dissected nature to show all her secrets. As nature revealed her secrets, so too she was able to be controlled. Both this intention and the metaphor of 'nature unveiled' is still prevalent in scientific language. Conceptions of the Earth as nurturing bringer of life began slowly to change to one of a resource to be exploited as science became more and more confident that human minds could know all there was about the natural world and thereby effect changes on it at will. Merchant cites Francis Bacon's use of female metaphors to describe the exploitation of nature at this time was telling: \"she is either free...or driven out of her ordinary course by the perverseness, insolence and forwardness of matter and violence of impediments...or she is put in constraint, molded and made as it were new by art and the hand of man; as in things artificial...nature takes orders from man and works under his authority\" (Bacon in Merchant 1990: 282). Nature must be \"bound into service\" and made a slave to the human ends of regaining our dominion over nature lost in the 'fall from grace' in Eden.\n\nIn combination with increasing industrialization and the rise of capitalism that simultaneously replaced women's work like weaving with machinery, and subsumed their roles as subsistence agriculturists also drove people to live in cities, further removing them from nature and the effects of industrialised production on it. The combined effects of industrialization, scientific exploration of nature and the ascendancy of the dominion/domination metaphor over the nurturing Mother Earth one, according to Merchant, can still be felt in social and political thought, as much as it was evident in the art, philosophy and science of the 16th century.\n\nCarolyn Merchant received her A.B. in Chemistry from Vassar College in 1958. She then went to the University of Wisconsin-Madison to earn an M.A. and Ph.D. in the History of Science and later received an honorary doctorate from Umea University in Umea, Sweden, where she was teaching as a Fulbright Senior Fellow. Currently, she is a professor of environmental history, philosophy, and ethics at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nIn 1954, as a high school senior, Merchant was a Top Ten Finalist for the Westinghouse Science Talent Search. She was one of the first to be awarded the E. B. Fred Fellowship, a program established at the University of Wisconsin-Madison to demonstrate that women could make significant contributions to professional fields. In 1963, Merchant, along with 13 other women out of a pool of 114 applicants, was awarded a three-year grant to fund field non-specific graduate research. In 1984 she was a Fulbright Senior Scholar at the University of Umea in Umea, Sweden, where she taught in the Department of History of Ideas.\n\nPrior to the University of California, Berkeley, where she started in 1986 and still teaches, she was a lecturer in the History of Science, Department of Physics and Natural Sciences Interdisciplinary Program at the University of San Francisco from 1969 to 1977. She was a visiting professor at Oregon State University in the History of Science Department and General Science Department in 1969.\n\nMerchant has been a member of the History of Science Society since 1962. She was chair of the Committee on Women of Science from 1973-1974 and co-chair from 1992-1994. From 1971-1972 she was co-president of the West Coast History of Science Society. She has been a member ef the American Society for Environmental History since 1980 and has held positions such as vice-president and president in addition to serving as associate Editor of the \"Environmental Review\" and as a member of the Rachel Carson Prize Committee for best dissertation.\n\nCarolyn Merchant’s \"The Death of Nature: Women, Ecology, and the Scientific Revolution\" leaves a scholarly legacy in the fields of environmental history, philosophy, and feminism. The book is considered groundbreaking due her connection between the feminization of nature and the naturalization of women. Along with this connection, she backs up her claim with historical evidence during the time of enlightenment. Merchant was not the first to present on ecofeminist ideals and theories. Françoise d'Eaubonne coined the term ecofeminisme to portray the influence of women and their ability to generate an ecological revolution in her book \"Le Feminisme ou la Morte\". Susan Griffin's book, \"Women and Nature: The Roaring Inside Her\", also talks about women ecology was written in 1978 before the \"Death of Nature\" was written. \"The Death of Nature\" is influential despite these earlier works because it is the first interpretation of an ecofeminist perspective on history ecology.\n\nCarolyn Merchant has published numerous literary works focusing on interaction between humans and their natural habitat. Merchant examined the trends and behaviors individuals develop through time. Additionally, she started concentrating on ecology and women's movements and their development in society. Merchant's passion for environmental history, philosophy and ethics is demonstrated in her publications.\n\n\nThe Death of Nature is Merchant's most well received book. In this book she emphasizes on the importance of gender in the historiography of modern science. Additionally, she focuses her book on \"the sexist assumptions that informed sixteenth-and seventeenth-century conceptions of the universe and human physiology.\" Merchant expresses the importance of gender in early modern writing on nature too, and its use of environmental, social, and literary history to have a context for the history of science.\n\n"}
{"id": "30126813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30126813", "title": "Cornelis Dirk Andriesse", "text": "Cornelis Dirk Andriesse\n\nCornelis Dirk (Cees) Andriesse (Leeuwarden, 21 December 1939) is a Dutch physicist, writer and historian of science. Internationally he is best known for his scientific biography of Christiaan Huygens.\n\nAndriesse studied applied physics at Delft University of Technology, where he specialized in radiation physics. In 1969 he received his PhD degree from the same university with a thesis on the scattering of neutrons in gaseous argon-36. After that, he initiated a research project on the force between noble gas atoms.\n\nHe then worked at the Kapteyn Observatory in Roden, part of the University of Groningen. In 1978 he was the first to calculate the radiation of interstellar dust with a fluctuating temperature. Only after the turn of the century Infrared observations from space showed the calculated spectrum to be characteristic of all galaxies. In 1979 Andriesse came up with a theory for the mass loss of stars.\n\nThere are two classic explanations for the mass loss of stars by stellar winds. For stars of high luminosity radiation pressure is the driving force; for fainter stars like the Sun the stellar wind is driven by mechanical effects such as shock waves or magnetic fields. To what level a stellar wind swells, depends on accidental features of the mechanism. The strength of the wind is not easily related to the basic properties of the star (mass, radius, and luminosity).\n\nAndriesse's fluctuation theory is a metatheory for the two mechanisms mentioned. It does not matter much which mechanism occurs in a certain star, as long as that mechanism meets certain requirements: the stellar wind must take the form of puffs that are so pronounced that they affect the equilibrium between gravitational and thermal forces of the star as a whole. Only after the equilibrium is regained, a subsequent puff may take place.\n\nThe fluctuation theory establishes a clear link between the strength of the stellar wind and the basic properties of the star, which, as mentioned above, the mechanisms by themselves cannot establish. Metatheories are not very common in astrophysics. Also fluctuations are usually ignored rather than taken as a starting point. When the fluctuation theory, which Andriesse still sees as his best work, did not gain much acceptance, Andriesse left astrophysics in disappointment in 1980.\n\nHe joined the research institute KEMA of the Dutch electricity companies in Arnhem and started a ‘source-term’ program, with the aim to determine which and how many radioactive substances would be released by nuclear reactors, when they become overheated. Tiny amounts of uranium oxide, irradiated by neutrons, and thus containing fission products, were heated above 2,000 degrees. When these experiments were under way, the nuclear reactor in Chernobyl exploded. There happened outdoors what Andriesse with his student Richard Tanke were doing inside a safe laboratory His results, presented to the International Atomic Energy Agency, showed that even at very high temperatures most fission products will stay in the reactor core He later cautioned for an explosion of the Petten nuclear reactor caused by a sudden break of the cooling circuit.\n\nIn 1989 Andriesse was appointed professor of electricity supply at the University of Utrecht. This position was paid by KEMA. Commotion arose, when he expressed opinions about the safety of nuclear power plants, which were too negative in the eyes of KEMA. Eventually the conflict was resolved by Andriesse moving to a position financed by the University of Utrecht. As professor of energy physics, he investigated why photovoltaic cells are more efficient in using solar energy than plants. Molecular transport in plant cells turned out to be the limiting factor. For the Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands he studied the Pebble Bed Reactor. In 2002 Andriesse formally retired. He remained active at the Institute for the History and Foundations of Mathematics and Natural Sciences (IGG) of the University of Utrecht for several more years.\n\nAfter age forty Andriesse started to write fiction for a general audience. In his novels, he steps back from exact science and sketches poetic, often erratic images of a disordered world. His first historical novel \"Titan kan niet slapen\" ( \"Titan cannot sleep\") got a place on the longlist of the AKO Literatuurprijs in 1994. It is about the life and works of Christiaan Huygens (1629–1695), and it has been translated in French and English. “De opstand” and “Alsnog een portret voor Heinsius” are historical novels about the physician Gadso Coopmans (1746–1810) and the politician Anthonie Heinsius (1641–1720). He also wrote books about the history of physics, nuclear energy and science publishing. \n\n"}
{"id": "5794877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5794877", "title": "Ernest George Mardon", "text": "Ernest George Mardon\n\nErnest George Mardon (1928 – 6 March 2016) was an English professor who worked at the University of Lethbridge. He has several dozen books, mostly on the history of Alberta, Canada.\n\nBorn in Houston, Texas in 1928 to Professor Austin Mardon and Marie Dickey, Dr. Ernest G. Mardon was educated at Gordonstone, Scotland, before attending Trinity College in Dublin. After that he was called up for military service in the Korean War as an officer with the Gordon Highlanders, serving with that outfit in the Suez Canal Zone, Cyprus, Libya, from 1952 to 1954. He was honorably discharged with the rank of lieutenant. He moved to Canada in 1954 as Bureau Manager for United Press International. He taught high school in Morinville, and then did Doctoral work in Medieval English at the University of Ottawa. Among the first Faculty of the University of Lethbridge, Dr. Mardon was also a visiting professor at several other Canadian universities. He is also a scholar in the area of Anglo-Saxon studies. In 2006 he was nominated for full membership in the International Astronomical Union. He died on March 8, 2016 in Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada.\n\nMardon's children include the Antarctic researcher and writer Austin Mardon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6858171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6858171", "title": "Florence O'Donoghue", "text": "Florence O'Donoghue\n\nFlorence O'Donoghue (1895–18 December 1967) was an Irish historian and head of intelligence of the Cork No. 1 Brigade of the Irish Republican Army during the Irish War of Independence.\n\nHe was born in Rathmore, County Kerry, Ireland in 1895. He moved to Cork in 1910, where he worked as an apprentice in the drapery trade.\n\nThe 1916 Easter Rising was a watershed in O'Donoghue's life. In December 1916, Florence joined the Cork branch of the Irish Volunteers. In early 1917, he was elected unanimously 1st Lieutenant of the Cyclist Company and as result devoted all his spare time to Volunteer work. He began writing weekly for two years for the \"Irish World\" newspaper. By May 1917, he was sworn into the Irish Republican Brotherhood and in October, Tomás Mac Curtain appointed O'Donoghue as communications of the Cork Brigade. He replaced Pat Higgins as Brigade Adjutant in February 1917. O'Donoghue was a key organiser in the sensational jail-break of Captain Donnchadh Mac Niallghuis on Armistice Day 1918 and took personal responsibility for his protection. Michael Collins was the last officer from Volunteers General Headquarters to visit Cork shortly after Christmas 1919, until the truce in 1921.\n\nO'Donoghue built up an intelligence network and agents which included his future wife, Josephine Marchment. She was head female clerk at the 6th Division Headquarters at Victoria Barracks, Cork and passed on secret British Army correspondence to him. Florence recruited people to open letters, tap phone lines and intercept telegrams. The Irish Republican Army had 2,000 active members in Cork which were also used for intelligence gathering. By March 1920, after killing a RIC Inspector, Florence was on the run and serving full-time in the Irish Republican Army. In November that year, the Cork Brigade killed six British Army Officers and executed five Cork civilians on suspicion of spying.\n\nAfter two and a half years of fighting, a truce was agreed on 11 July 1921. When the Dáil approved the Anglo-Irish Treaty, in January 1922, the army split into pro- and anti-treaty camps. Over the coming months and after being elected onto the army’s executive as Adjutant-General, O'Donoghue warned of the dangers of an Irish Civil War. In June 1922, he resigned from the army's national executive and a month later, on 3 July 1922, from the army. Civil war did break out on June 28, 1922 between pro and anti treaty factions, much to O'Donoghue's dismay.\n\nDuring the civil war, he remained neutral and tried to organise a truce to end the fighting. In December 1922, he formed a group called the \"Neutral IRA\", along with Sean O'Hegarty, composed of pro-truce IRA men. O'Donoghue claimed he had 20,000 members in this group. He campaigned for a month's truce between the two sides, so that a political compromise could be reached. However, his efforts came to nothing and in March 1923, he wound up the \"Neutral IRA\", judging that its objectives could not be achieved. The civil war ended in late April 1923.\n\nHe served as Major in the Irish Army from 1939-1946. He formed a Supplementary Intelligence Service that would remain behind enemy lines in the event of an invasion. He also taught guerrilla war tactics to new army recruits.\n\nFlorence married Josephine Marchment in April 1921 and had four children. The couple also adopted two children from Josephine’s first marriage, including Reggie Brown, whom Florence kidnapped from his grandparents in Wales in 1920. Florence became a rate collector and remained outside politics.\n\nIn later years he became a respected historian. While in the army he edited \"An Cosantóir\", the Irish Army’s magazine. He convinced Éamon de Valera to establish the Bureau of Military History which would record personal accounts from the Irish War of Independence. O'Donoghue was a recording officer until 1948. His most famous work is his biography on Liam Lynch, entitled \"No Other Law\".\n\nO'Donoghue died on 18 December 1967 and Tom Barry gave the graveside oration.\n"}
{"id": "7811597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7811597", "title": "Francis John Byrne", "text": "Francis John Byrne\n\nFrancis John Byrne (born 1934 - died 30 December 2017) was an Irish historian.\n\nBorn in Shanghai where his father, a Dundalk man, captained a ship on the Yellow River, Byrne was evacuated with his mother to Australia on the outbreak of World War II. After the war, his mother returned to Ireland, where his father, who had survived internment in Japanese hands, returned to take up work as a harbour master.\n\nByrne attended Blackrock College in County Dublin where he learned Latin and Greek, to add to the Chinese he had learned in his Shanghai childhood. He studied Early Irish History at University College Dublin where he excelled, graduating with first class honours. He studied Paleography and Medieval Latin in Germany, and then lectured on Celtic languages in Sweden, before returning to University College in 1964 to take up a professorship.\n\nByrne's best known work is his \"Irish Kings and High-Kings\" (1973). He was joint editor of the Royal Irish Academy's \"New History of Ireland\" (9 volumes). A festschrift in his honour was published in 1999 under the editorship of his former student Alfred P. Smyth. \n\nHe retired in 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "496354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=496354", "title": "Gandhara", "text": "Gandhara\n\nGandhāra was an ancient state, a \"mahajanapada\", in the Peshawar basin in the northwest portion of the Indian subcontinent, present-day Pakistan. The center of the region was at the confluence of the Kabul and Swat rivers, bounded by the Sulaiman Mountains on the west and the Indus River on the east. The Safed Koh mountains separated it from the Kohat region to the south. This being the core area of Gandhara, the cultural influence of \"Greater Gandhara\" extended across the Indus river to the Taxila region and westwards into the Kabul and Bamiyan valleys in Afghanistan, and northwards up to the Karakoram range. Gandhara was one of sixteen \"mahajanapadas\" (large conglomerations of urban and rural areas) of ancient India mentioned in Buddhist sources such as Anguttara Nikaya. During the Achaemenid period and Hellenistic period, its capital city was Pushkalavati (Greek: Peucelaotis), modern Charsadda. Later the capital city was moved to Peshawar by the Kushan emperor Kanishka the Great in about AD 127.\n\nGandhara existed since the time of the Rigveda (c. 1500–1200 BC), as well as the Zoroastrian Avesta, which mentions it as \"Vaēkərəta\", the sixth most beautiful place on earth, created by Ahura Mazda. Gandhara was conquered by the Achaemenid Empire in the 6th century BC. Conquered by Alexander the Great in 327 BC, it subsequently became part of the Maurya Empire and then the Indo-Greek Kingdom. The region was a major center for Greco-Buddhism under the Indo-Greeks and Gandharan Buddhism under later dynasties. It was also a central location for the spread of Buddhism to Central Asia and East Asia. It was also a center of Bactrian Zoroastrianism and Hinduism. Famed for its local tradition of Gandhara (Greco-Buddhist) Art, Gandhara attained its height from the 1st century to the 5th century under the Kushan Empire. Gandhara \"flourished at the crossroads of Asia,\" connecting trade routes and absorbing cultural influences from diverse civilizations; Buddhism thrived until 8th or 9th centuries, when Islam first began to gain sway in the region. Pockets of Buddhism persisted in Pakistan's Swat valley until the 11th century.\n\nThe Persian term \"Shahi\" is used by historian Al-Biruni to refer to the ruling dynasty that took over from the \"Kabul Shahi\" and ruled the region during the period prior to Muslim conquests of the 10th and 11th centuries. After it was conquered by Mahmud of Ghazni in 1001 AD, the name Gandhara disappeared. During the Muslim period, the area was administered from Lahore or from Kabul. During Mughal times, it was an independent district which included the Kabul province.\n\nGandhara was known in Sanskrit as ', in Avestan as ', in Old Persian as \"Gadāra\" (Old Persian cuneiform: , \"Gadāra\", also transliterated as \"Gadāra\" since the nasal \"n\" before consonants was omitted in the Old Persian script, and simplified as \"Gandara\") in Babylonian and Elamite as \"Paruparaesanna\" (\"\"), in Chinese as (\"Qiántuóluó\"), and in Greek as (\"Gandhara\").\n\nThe Gandhari people are a tribe mentioned in the Rigveda, the Atharvaveda, and later Vedic texts. They are recorded in the Avestan-language of Zoroastrianism under the name \"Vaēkərəta\". The name \"Gāndhāra\" occurs later in the classical Sanskrit of the epics. One proposed origin of the name is from the Sanskrit word \"\", meaning \"perfume\" and \"referring to the spices and aromatic herbs which they [the inhabitants] traded and with which they anointed themselves.\".\n\nA Persian form of the name, \"Gandara\", mentioned in the Behistun inscription of Emperor Darius I, was translated as \"Paruparaesanna\" (\"\", meaning \"beyond the Hindu Kush\") in Babylonian and Elamite in the same inscription. In addition to Gandhara proper, the province also encompassed the Kabul Valley, Swat and Chitral.\n\nKandahar is sometimes etymologically associated with Gandhara. However, Kandahar was not part of the main territory of Gandhara.\n\nThe boundaries of Gandhara varied throughout history. Sometimes the \"Peshawar\" Valley and \"Taxila\" were collectively referred to as Gandhara; sometimes the Swat Valley (Sanskrit: \"Suvāstu\") was also included. The heart of Gandhara, however, was always the Peshawar Valley. The kingdom was ruled from capitals at \"Kapisa\" (\"Bagram\"), \"Pushkalavati\" (\"Charsadda\"), \"Taxila\", \"Puruṣapura\" (\"Peshawar\") and in its final days from \"Udabhandapura\" (\"Hund\") on the River Indus.\n\nEvidence of the Stone Age human inhabitants of Gandhara, including stone tools and burnt bones, was discovered at Sanghao near Mardan in area caves. The artifacts are approximately 15,000 years old. More recent excavations point to 30,000 years before the present.\n\nGandhara was an ancient kingdom of the Peshawar Valley, extending between the Swat valley and Potohar plateau regions of Pakistan as well as the Jalalabad district of northeastern Afghanistan. In an archaeological context, the Vedic period in Gandhara corresponds to the Gandhara grave culture.\n\nThe name of the Gandhāris is attested in the Rigveda (RV 1.126.7). The \"Gandhāris\", along with the \"Balhikas\" (Bactrians), Mūjavants, Angas, and the Magadhas, are also mentioned in the Atharvaveda (AV 5.22.14), as distant people. Gandharas are included in the Uttarapatha division of Puranic and Buddhistic traditions. The Aitareya Brahmana refers to King Nagnajit of Gandhara who was a contemporary of Janaka, king of Videha.\n\nGandhara was one of sixteen \"mahajanapadas\" of ancient India. The primary cities of Gandhara were Puruṣapura (Peshawar), Takṣaśilā (Taxila), and Pushkalavati (Charsadda). The latter remained the capital of Gandhara down to the 2nd century AD, when the capital was moved to Peshawar. An important Buddhist shrine helped to make the city a centre of pilgrimage until the 7th century. Pushkalavati, in the Peshawar Valley, is situated at the confluence of the Swat and Kabul rivers, where three different branches of the River Kabul meet. That specific place is still called Prang (from Prayāga) and considered sacred; local people still bring their dead there for burial. Similar geographical characteristics are found at site of Prang in Kashmir and at the confluence of the Ganges and Yamuna, where the sacred city of Prayag is situated, west of Benares. There are some legends in which the two rivers are said to be joined here by the underground Sarasvati River, forming a triveṇī, a confluence of three rivers. However, Rigvedic texts, and modern research, suggest that the path of the Sarasvati River was very different. It ended in the ocean at Kachchh in modern Gujrat and not at Prayag. The Gandharan city of Taxila was an important Buddhist and Hindu centre of learning from the 5th century BC to the 2nd century.\n\nGandhara is mentioned in the Hindu epics, the Mahabharata and the Ramayana, as a western kingdom. In Treta Yuga, before Lord Rama, during the reigns of Muchukunda, the kingdom of Gandhara was founded by the Druhyu prince Gandhara who was the son of King Angara of Druhyu Dynasty. During Ramayana time King Nagnajit(1) who was a contemporary of Lord Rama was defeated and killed by Rama's brother Bharata and Bharata's 1st son Taksha established Takshasila (Taxila) in Gandhara Kingdom on the banks of river Sindhu and Pushkara established Pushkaravati or Purushapura (Pushkar) in Gandharva tribe on the banks of river Saraswati after defeating and killing its king Sailusha who was the father-in-law of Vibhishana. In Dvapara Yuga, Gandhara prince Shakuni was the root of all the conspiracies of Duryodhana against the Pandavas, which finally resulted in the Kurukshetra War. Shakuni's sister was the wife of the Kuru king Dhritarashtra and was known as Gandhari. Gandhara was in modern Pakistan. Puskalavati, \"Takshasila\" (Taxila) and \"Purushapura\" (Peshawar) were cities in this Gandhara kingdom. Takshasila was founded by Raghava Rama's brother Bharata. Bharata's descendants ruled this kingdom afterwards. During epic period it was ruled by Shakuni's father \"Suvala\", Shakuni and Shakuni's son. Arjuna defeated Shakuni's son during his post-war military campaign for Yudhishthira's Aswamedha Yagna.\n\nThe main Vedic tribes remaining in the Indus Valley by 550 BC were the \"Kamboja\", \"Sindhu\", \"Taksas\" of Gandhara, the \"Madras\" and \"Kathas\" of the River Chenab, \"Mallas\" of the River Ravi and \"Tugras\" of the River Sutlej. These several tribes and principalities fought against one another to such an extent that the Indus Valley no longer had one powerful Vedic tribal kingdom to defend against outsiders and to wield the warring tribes into one organized kingdom. The area was wealthy and fertile, yet infighting led misery and despair. King Pushkarasakti of Gandhara was engaged in power struggles against his local rivals and as such the Khyber Pass remained poorly defended. King Darius I of the Achaemenid Empire took advantage of the opportunity and planned for an invasion. The Indus Valley was fabled in Persia for its gold and fertile soil and conquering it had been a major objective of his predecessor Cyrus The Great. In 542 BC, Cyrus had led his army and conquered the Makran coast in southern Balochistan. However, he is known to have campaigned beyond Makran (in the regions of Kalat, Khuzdar, Panjgur) and lost most of his army in the \"Gedrosian Desert\" (speculated today as the Kharan Desert).\nIn 518 BC, Darius led his army through the Khyber Pass and southwards in stages, eventually reaching the Arabian Sea coast in Sindh by 516 BC. Under Persian rule, a system of centralized administration, with a bureaucratic system, was introduced into the Indus Valley for the first time. Provinces or \"satrapy\" were established with provincial capitals:\n\nGandhara satrapy, established 518 BC with its capital at Pushkalavati (Charsadda). Gandhara Satrapy was established in the general region of the old Gandhara grave culture, in what is today Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. During Achaemenid rule, the Kharosthi alphabet, derived from the one used for Aramaic (the official language of Achaemenids), developed here and remained the national script of Gandhara until 200 AD.\n\nGandhara Kingdom/Takshila in Punjab was conquered by the Achaemenid empire in 518 BC. During this time, King Pushkarasakti, a contemporary of Emperor Bimbisara (558–491 BC) of the Magadha empire of Haryanka dynasty, was the king of Gandhara. King Pushkarasakti was engaged in power struggles against his local rivals. The Achaemenids under Darius penetrated to the region in 516 BC and annexed other parts of modern-day Punjab, Pakistan west to the Indus river and Sindh.\n\nThe inscription on Darius' (521–486 BC) tomb at Naqsh-i-Rustam near Persepolis records Gadāra (Gandāra) along with Hindush (Hənduš, Sindh) in the list of \"satrapies\". By about 380 BC the Persian hold on the region had weakened. Many small kingdoms sprang up in Gandhara. In 327 BC, Alexander the Great conquered Gandhara as well as the Indian \"satrapies\" of the Persian Empire. The expeditions of Alexander were recorded by his court historians and by Arrian (around AD 175) in his \"Anabasis Alexandri\" and by other chroniclers many centuries after the event.\n\nSir Mortimer Wheeler conducted some excavations there in 1962, and identified various Achaemenid remains.\n\nIn the winter of 327 BC, Alexander invited all the chieftains in the remaining five Achaemenid satraps to submit to his authority. Ambhi, then ruler of Taxila in the former Hindush satrapy complied, but the remaining tribes and clans in the former satraps of Gandhara, Arachosia, Sattagydia and Gedrosia rejected Alexander's offer.\n\nThe first tribe they encountered were the Aspasioi tribe of the Kunar Valley, who initiated a fierce battle against Alexander, in which he himself was wounded in the shoulder by a dart. However, the Aspasioi eventually lost and 40,000 people were enslaved. Alexander then continued in a southwestern direction where he encountered the Assakenoi tribe of the Swat & Buner valleys in April 326 BC. The Assakenoi fought bravely and offered stubborn resistance to Alexander and his army in the cities of Ora, Bazira (Barikot) and Massaga. So enraged was Alexander about the resistance put up by the Assakenoi that he killed the entire population of Massaga and reduced its buildings to rubble. A similar slaughter then followed at Ora, another stronghold of the Assakenoi. The stories of these slaughters reached numerous Assakenians, who began fleeing to Aornos, a hill-fort located between Shangla and Kohistan. Alexander followed close behind their heels and besieged the strategic hill-fort, eventually capturing and destroying the fort and killing everyone inside. The remaining smaller tribes either surrendered or like the Astanenoi tribe of Pushkalavati (Charsadda) were quickly neutralized where 38,000 soldiers and 230,000 oxen were captured by Alexander. Eventually Alexander's smaller force would meet with the larger force which had come through the Khyber Pass met at Attock. With the conquest of Gandhara complete, Alexander switched to strengthening his military supply line, which by now stretched dangerously vulnerable over the Hindu Kush back to Balkh in Bactria.\n\nAfter conquering Gandhara and solidifying his supply line back to Bactria, Alexander combined his forces with the King Ambhi of Taxila and crossed the River Indus in July 326 BC to begin the Archosia (Punjab) campaign. Alexander founded several new settlements in Gandhara, Punjab and Sindh. and nominated officers as Satraps of the new provinces:\n\nIn Gandhara, Oxyartes was nominated to the position of Satrap by Alexander in 326 BC.\n\nChandragupta Maurya, the founder of the Mauryan dynasty, is said to have lived in Taxila when Alexander captured the city. According to tradition, he trained under Kautilya, who remained his chief adviser throughout his reign. Supposedly using Gandhara and Vahika as his base, Chandragupta led a rebellion against the Magadha Empire and ascended the throne at Pataliputra in 321 BC. However, there are no contemporary Indian records of Chandragupta Maurya and almost all that is known is based on the diaries of Megasthenes, the ambassador of Seleucus at Pataliputra, as recorded by Arrian in his \"Indika\". Ambhi hastened to relieve Alexander of his apprehension and met him with valuable presents, placing himself and all of his forces at his disposal. Alexander not only returned Ambhi his title, and the gifts, but he also presented him with a wardrobe of: \"Persian robes, gold and silver ornaments, 30 horses and 1000 talents in gold\". Alexander was emboldened to divide his forces, and Ambhi assisted Hephaestion and Perdiccas in constructing a bridge over the Indus where it bends at Hund (Fox 1973), supplied their troops with provisions, and received Alexander himself, and his whole army, in his capital city of Taxila, with every demonstration of friendship and the most liberal hospitality.\n\nOn the subsequent advance of the Macedonian king, Taxiles accompanied him with a force of 5000 men and took part in the battle of the Hydaspes River. After that victory he was sent by Alexander in pursuit of Porus, to whom he was charged to offer favourable terms, but narrowly escaped losing his life at the hands of his old enemy. Subsequently, however, the two rivals were reconciled by the personal mediation of Alexander; and Taxiles, after having contributed zealously to the equipment of the fleet on the Hydaspes, was entrusted by the king with the government of the whole territory between that river and the Indus. A considerable accession of power was granted him after the death of Philip (son of Machatas); and he was allowed to retain his authority at the death of Alexander himself (323 BC), as well as in the subsequent partition of the provinces at Triparadisus, 321 BC. Later Ambhi was deposed and killed by Chandragupta Maurya, emperor of the Mauryan Empire.\nGandhara was acquired from the Greeks by Chandragupta Maurya.\n\nAfter a battle with Seleucus Nicator (Alexander's successor in Asia) in 305 BC, the Mauryan Emperor extended his domain up to and including present Southern Afghanistan. With the completion of the Empire's Grand Trunk Road, the region prospered as a center of trade. Gandhara remained a part of the Mauryan Empire for about a century and a half.\n\nAshoka, the grandson of Chandragupta, was one of the greatest Indian rulers. Like his grandfather, Ashoka also started his career in Gandhara as a governor. Later he supposedly became a Buddhist and promoted this religion in his empire. He built many \"stupas\" in Gandhara. Mauryan control over the northwestern frontier, including the Yonas, Kambojas, and the Gandharas, is attested from the Rock Edicts left by Ashoka. According to one school of scholars, the Gandharas and Kambojas were cognate people. It is also contended that the Kurus, Kambojas, Gandharas and Bahlikas were cognate people and all had Iranian affinities, or that the Gandhara and Kamboja were nothing but two provinces of one empire and hence influencing each other's language. However, the local language of Gandhara is represented by Panini's conservative \"bhāṣā\" (\"language\"), which is entirely different from the Iranian (Late Avestan) language of the Kamboja that is indicated by Patanjali's quote of Kambojan śavati 'to go' (= Late Avestan šava(i)ti).\n\nThe decline of the Empire left the Indian subcontinent open to Greco-Bactrian invasions. Present-day southern Afghanistan was absorbed by Demetrius I of Bactria in 180 BC. Around about 185 BC, Demetrius invaded and conquered Gandhara and the Punjab. Later, wars between different groups of Bactrian Greeks resulted in the independence of Gandhara from Bactria and the formation of the Indo-Greek kingdom. Menander I was its most famous king. He ruled from Taxila and later from Sagala (Sialkot). He rebuilt Taxila (Sirkap) and Pushkalavati. He became a Buddhist and is remembered in Buddhist records for his discussions with the great Buddhist philosopher, Nāgasena, in the book \"Milinda Panha\".\nAround the time of Menander's death in 140 BC, the Central Asian Kushans overran Bactria and ended Greek rule there. Around 80 BC, the Sakas, diverted by their Parthian cousins from Iran, moved into Gandhara and other parts of Pakistan and Western India. The most famous king of the Sakas, Maues, established himself in Gandhara.\n\nBy 90 BC the Parthians had taken control of eastern Iran and, around 50 BC, they put an end to the last remnants of Greek rule in today's Afghanistan. Eventually an Indo-Parthian dynasty succeeded in taking control of Gandhara. The Parthians continued to support Greek artistic traditions. The start of the Gandharan Greco-Buddhist art is dated to about 75–50 BC. Links between Rome and the Indo-Parthian kingdoms existed. There is archaeological evidence that building techniques were transmitted between the two realms. Christian records claim that around AD 40 Thomas the Apostle visited the Indian subcontinent and encountered the Indo-Parthian king Gondophares.\n\nThe Parthian dynasty fell about 75 to another group from Central Asia. The Kushans, known as Yuezhi in China (argued by some to be ethnically Asii) moved from Central Asia to Bactria, where they stayed for a century. Around 75, one of their tribes, the Kushan (Kuṣāṇa), under the leadership of Kujula Kadphises gained control of Gandhara and other parts of what is now Pakistan.\n\nThe Kushan period is considered the Golden Period of Gandhara. Peshawar Valley and Taxila are littered with ruins of \"stupas\" and monasteries of this period. Gandharan art flourished and produced some of the best pieces of sculpture from the Indian subcontinent. Many monuments were created to commemorate the Jatakas.\n\nGandhara's culture peaked during the reign of the great Kushan king Kanishka the Great (128–151). The cities of Taxila (Takṣaśilā) at Sirsukh and Peshawar were built. Peshawar became the capital of a great empire stretching from Gandhara to Central Asia. Kanishka was a great patron of the Buddhist faith; Buddhism spread to Central Asia and the Far East across Bactria and Sogdia, where his empire met the Han Empire of China. Buddhist art spread from Gandhara to other parts of Asia. Under Kanishka, Gandhara became a holy land of Buddhism and attracted Chinese pilgrims eager to view the monuments associated with many Jatakas.\n\nIn Gandhara, Mahayana Buddhism flourished and Buddha was represented in human form. Under the Kushans new Buddhists \"stupas\" were built and old ones were enlarged. Huge statues of the Buddha were erected in monasteries and carved into the hillsides. Kanishka also built a great 400-foot tower at Peshawar. This tower was reported by Chinese monks Faxian, Song Yun, and Xuanzang who visited the country. This structure was destroyed and rebuilt many times until it was finally destroyed by Mahmud of Ghazni in the 11th century.\n\nThe Hephthalite Huns captured Gandhara around 451, and did not adopt Buddhism, but in fact \"perpetrated frightful massacres.\" Mihirakula became a \"terrible persecutor\" of the religion. During their rule, Hinduism revived itself and the Buddhist Gandharan civilization declined.\n\nThe travel records of many Chinese Buddhist pilgrims record that Gandhara was going through a transformation during these centuries. Buddhism was declining, and Hinduism was rising. Faxian traveled around 400, when Prakrit was the language of the people, and Buddhism was flourishing. 100 years later, when Song Yun visited in 520, a different situation was described: the area had been destroyed by the White Huns and was ruled by Lae-Lih, who did not practice the laws of the Buddha. Xuanzang visited India around 644 and found Buddhism on the wane in Gandhara and Hinduism in the ascendant. Gandhara was ruled by a king from Kabul, who respected Buddha's law, but Taxila was in ruins, and Buddhist monasteries were deserted.\n\nAfter the fall of the Sassanid Empire to the Arabs in 644, today's Afghanistan region and Gandhara came under pressure from Muslims. But they failed to extend their empire to Gandhara. Gandhara was first ruled by local kings who later expanded their kingdom onto an empire.\n\nGandhara was ruled from Kabul by Kabulshahi for next 200 years. Sometime in the 9th century the Kabul Shahi replaced the Shahi. Based on various Muslim records it is estimated this occurred in 870. According to Al-Biruni (973–1048), Kallar, a Brahmin minister of the Kabulshahi, founded the Shahi dynasty in 843. The dynasty ruled from Kabul, later moved their capital to Udabhandapura. They built great temples all over their kingdoms. Some of these buildings are still in good condition in the Salt Range of the Punjab.\n\nJayapala was the last great king of this dynasty. His empire extended from west of Kabul to the river Sutlej. However, this expansion of Gandhara kingdom coincided with the rise of the powerful Ghaznavid Empire under Sabuktigin. Defeated twice by Sabuktigin and then by Mahmud of Ghazni in the Kabul valley, Jayapala gave his life on a funeral pyre. Anandapala, a son of Jayapala, moved his capital near Nandana in the Salt Range. In 1021 the last king of this dynasty, Trilochanapala, was assassinated by his own troops which spelled the end of Gandhara. Subsequently, some Shahi princes moved to Kashmir and became active in local politics.\n\nThe city of Kandahar in Afghanistan is said to have been named after Gandhara. According to H.W. Bellow, an emigrant from Gandhara in the 5th century brought this name to modern Kandahar. Faxian reported that the Buddha's alms-bowl existed in Peshawar Valley when he visited around 400 (chapter XII). In 1872 Bellow saw this huge begging bowl (seven feet in diameter) preserved in the shrine of Sultan Wais outside Kandahar. When Olaf Caroe wrote his book in 1958 (Caroe, pp. 170–171), this relic was reported to be at Kabul Museum. The present status of this bowl is unknown.\n\nWriting c. 1030, Al Biruni reported on the devastation caused during the conquest of Gandhara and much of northwest India by Mahmud of Ghazni following his defeat of Jayapala in the Battle of Peshawar at Peshawar in 1001:\n\nBy the time Gandhara had been absorbed into the empire of Mahmud of Ghazni, Buddhist buildings were already in ruins and Gandhara art had been forgotten. After Al-Biruni, the Kashmiri writer Kalhaṇa wrote his book \"Rajatarangini\" in 1151. He recorded some events that took place in Gandhara, and provided details about its last royal dynasty and capital Udabhandapura.\n\nIn the 19th century, British soldiers and administrators started taking an interest in the ancient history of the Indian Subcontinent. In the 1830s coins of the post-Ashoka period were discovered, and in the same period Chinese travelogues were translated. Charles Masson, James Prinsep, and Alexander Cunningham deciphered the Kharosthi script in 1838. Chinese records provided locations and site plans for Buddhist shrines. Along with the discovery of coins, these records provided clues necessary to piece together the history of Gandhara. In 1848 Cunningham found Gandhara sculptures north of Peshawar. He also identified the site of Taxila in the 1860s. From then on a large number of Buddhist statues were discovered in the Peshawar valley.\n\nArchaeologist John Marshall excavated at Taxila between 1912 and 1934. He discovered separate Greek, Parthian, and Kushan cities and a large number of \"stupas\" and monasteries. These discoveries helped to piece together much more of the chronology of the history of Gandhara and its art.\n\nAfter 1947 Ahmed Hassan Dani and the Archaeology Department at the University of Peshawar made a number of discoveries in the Peshawar and Swat Valley. Excavation of many of the sites of Gandhara Civilization are being done by researchers from Peshawar and several universities around the world.\n\nSwat Valley in Pakistan has many Buddhist carvings, and \"stupas\", and Jehanabad contains a Seated Buddha statue. Kushan era Buddhist \"stupas\" and statues in Swat valley were demolished after two attempts by the Taliban and the Jehanabad Buddha's face was dynamited. Only the Buddhas of Bamiyan were larger than the carved giant Buddha statues in Swat near Manglore which the Taliban attacked. The government did nothing to safeguard the statue after the initial attempts to destroy the Buddha, which did not cause permanent harm. But when a second attack took place on the statue, the feet, shoulders, and face were demolished. Islamists such as the Taliban, and looters, destroyed many of Pakistan's Buddhist artifacts from the Buddhist Gandhara civilization especially in the Swat Valley. The Taliban deliberately targeted Gandhara Buddhist relics for destruction. The Christian Archbishop of Lahore, Lawrence John Saldanha, wrote a letter to Pakistan's government denouncing the Taliban's activities in Swat Valley including their destruction of Buddha statues and their attacks on Christians, Sikhs, and Hindus. Gandhara Buddhist artifacts were illegally looted by smugglers. A group of Italians helped repair the Buddha.\n\nThe Gandharan Buddhist texts are both the earliest Buddhist as well as Asian manuscripts discovered so far. Most are written on birch bark and were found in labelled clay pots. Panini has mentioned both the Vedic form of Sanskrit as well as what seems to be Gandhari, a later form of Sanskrit, in his Ashtadhyayi.\n\nGandhara's language was a Prakrit or \"Middle Indo-Aryan\" dialect, usually called Gāndhārī. The language used the Kharosthi script, which died out about the 4th century. However, Punjabi, Hindko, and Kohistani, are derived from the Indo-Aryan Prakrits that were spoken in Gandhara and surrounding areas. However, a language shift occurred as the ancient Gandharan culture gave way to Iranian invaders from Central Asia.\n\nMahāyāna Pure Land sūtras were brought from the Gandhāra region to China as early as AD 147, when the Kushan monk Lokakṣema began translating some of the first Buddhist sūtras into Chinese. The earliest of these translations show evidence of having been translated from the Gāndhārī language. Lokakṣema translated important Mahāyāna sūtras such as the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā Sūtra\", as well as rare, early Mahāyāna sūtras on topics such as samādhi, and meditation on the buddha Akṣobhya. Lokaksema's translations continue to provide insight into the early period of Mahāyāna Buddhism. This corpus of texts often includes and emphasizes ascetic practices and forest dwelling, and absorption in states of meditative concentration:\n\nSome scholars believe that the Mahāyāna \"Longer Sukhāvatīvyūha Sūtra\" was compiled in the age of the Kushan Empire in the 1st and 2nd centuries AD, by an order of Mahīśāsaka bhikṣus which flourished in the Gandhāra region. However, it is likely that the longer \"Sukhāvatīvyūha\" owes greatly to the Mahāsāṃghika-Lokottaravāda sect as well for its compilation, and in this sūtra there are many elements in common with the Lokottaravādin \"Mahāvastu\". There are also images of Amitābha Buddha with the bodhisattvas Avalokiteśvara and Mahāsthāmaprāpta which were made in Gandhāra during the Kushan era.\n\nThe \"Mañjuśrīmūlakalpa\" records that Kaniṣka of the Kushan Empire presided over the establishment of the Mahāyāna Prajñāpāramitā teachings in the northwest. Tāranātha wrote that in this region, 500 bodhisattvas attended the council at Jālandhra monastery during the time of Kaniṣka, suggesting some institutional strength for Mahāyāna in the northwest during this period. Edward Conze goes further to say that Prajñāpāramitā had great success in the northwest during the Kushan period, and may have been the \"fortress and hearth\" of early Mahāyāna, but not its origin, which he associates with the Mahāsāṃghika branch of Buddhism.\n\nGandharan Buddhist missionaries were active, with other monks from Central Asia, from the 2nd century AD in the Han-dynasty (202 BC – 220 AD) at China's capital of Luoyang, and particularly distinguished themselves by their translation work. They promoted scriptures from Early Buddhist schools as well as those from the Mahāyāna. These translators included:\n\nThe Chinese Buddhist monk Xuanzang visited a Lokottaravāda monastery in the 7th century, at Bamiyan, Afghanistan. The site of this monastery has since been rediscovered by archaeologists. Birchbark and palm leaf manuscripts of texts in this monastery's collection, including Mahāyāna sūtras, have been discovered at the site, and these are now located in the Schøyen Collection. Some manuscripts are in the Gāndhārī language and Kharoṣṭhī script, while others are in Sanskrit and written in forms of the Gupta script. Manuscripts and fragments that have survived from this monastery's collection include the following source texts:\n\nA Sanskrit manuscript of the \"Bhaiṣajyaguruvaiḍūryaprabhārāja Sūtra\" was among the textual finds at Gilgit, Pakistan, attesting to the popularity of the Medicine Buddha in Gandhāra. The manuscripts in this find are dated before the 7th century, and are written in the upright Gupta script.\n\nGandhāra is noted for the distinctive Gandhāra style of Buddhist art, which developed from a merger of Greek, Syrian, Persian, and local artistic influences. This development began during the Parthian Period (50 BC – AD 75). The Gandhāran style flourished and achieved its peak during the Kushan period, from the 1st to the 5th centuries. It declined and was destroyed after the invasion of the White Huns in the 5th century.\n\nStucco as well as stone was widely used by sculptors in Gandhara for the decoration of monastic and cult buildings. Stucco provided the artist with a medium of great plasticity, enabling a high degree of expressiveness to be given to the sculpture. Sculpting in stucco was popular wherever Buddhism spread from Gandhara – Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Central Asia, and China.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1078397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1078397", "title": "Geoffrey Gaimar", "text": "Geoffrey Gaimar\n\nGeoffrey Gaimar (fl. 1130s), also written Geffrei or Geoffroy Gaimar, was an Anglo-Norman chronicler. His lasting contribution to medieval literature and history was as a translator from Old English to Anglo-Norman. His \"L'Estoire des Engleis\", or \"History of the English People\", written between 1136 and 1140, was a chronicle in eight-syllable rhyming couplets, running to 6,526 lines.\n\nThe \"L'Estoire des Engleis\" opens with a brief mention of King Arthur, whose actions affect the plot of the interpolated tale of Havelok the Dane. That aside, most of the first 3,500 lines are translations out of a variant text of the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" and subsequent portions from other (Latin and French) sources that remain unidentified.\n\nGaimar claims to have also written a version of the \"Brut\" story, a translation of the chronicle of Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" into Anglo-Norman verse, which was commissioned about 1136 by Constance, wife of Ralph FitzGilbert, a Lincolnshire landowner. Constance appears to have been implicated in the writing process. Gaimar's translation, if it existed, antedated Wace's Norman \"Roman de Brut\" (c. 1155), but no copy of Gaimar's \"Brut\" (also known as \"L'Estoire des Bretuns\") has survived, being superseded by the latecomer. Ian Short argues that Gaimar's \"Estoire des Bretuns\" was no more than a short epitome of the pre-Arthurian section of Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"Historia Regum Britanniae\", which might explain why Wace's later, full translation of the text became more popular and ultimately superseded Gaimer's.\n\nGaimar did not create two separate and distinct chronicles, and the two \"estoires\" were merely the former and latter sections of a long-running history starting from the Argonauts' quest for the Golden Fleece to the reign of William II \"Rufus\" (died 1100) that Gaimar set out to write. Gaimar's scheme was greatly expanded in scope from the translation work on Geoffrey of Monmouth, the former part, which the patron had requested. Ironically, it was solely the latter part covering the Anglo-Saxon period that was transmitted by later copyists, as a continuation to Wace. The scribe of one such copy, in a late 13th-century manuscript (B.L. Royal 13 A xx i), dubbed the portion with the title \"Estoire des Engles\". The so-called \"lost \"L'Estoire des Bretuns\"\" (History of the Britons) was an expedient term coined by 19th-century commentators.\n\nA version of Havelok the Dane occurs at the beginning of \"L'Estoire des Engles\", which must have originally been interpolated in between the history of the Britons and the history of the English, serving as a bridge. Unlike the Middle English version of the legend, Gaimar's version connects Havelok to King Arthur (making Arthur responsible for destroying the Danish kingdom that Havelok was to inherit.) Added to this is a mention of the sword Calibur (Excalibur), demonstrating Gaimar's knowledge of Galfridian legendary history that predated the advent of Wace's \"Brut\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30010549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30010549", "title": "Gerald W. Wolff", "text": "Gerald W. Wolff\n\nGerald W. Wolff (born 1939) is professor emeritus at the University of South Dakota, known for his specialization in the history of Native Americans, the American West, and national politics.\n\nIn 1969, Wolff received his Ph.D. from the University of Iowa in Iowa City, Iowa, and thereafter joined the USD faculty in Vermillion in southeastern South Dakota. He remained there until his retirement in the middle 1990s.\nWolff's doctoral dissertation is a study of the Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854, pushed to passage in the United States Senate by Stephen A. Douglas of Illinois. The act gave birth to the modern Republican Party, formed to halt the spread of slavery in to the territories of the United States. In 1972, Wolf used his dissertation as the basis for his article, \"Party and Section: The Senate and the Kansas-Nebraska Bill,\" published in \"Civil War History.\" In 1977, he turned his dissertation into the book entitled \"The Kansas-Nebraska Bill: Party, Section, and the Coming of the Civil War.\"\n\nIn 1970, Wolff's \"Mark Hanna's Goal: American Harmony,\" a glimpse of Mark Hanna, the U.S. Senator and campaign manager for presidential candidate William McKinley of Ohio, was published by \"Ohio History.\"\n\nIn 1974, Wolff joined colleague Joseph H. Cash in the publication of an ethno-historical work entitled \"Three Affiliated Tribes,\" a study of the cultural relationships among the Arikaras, Hidatsas, and Mandans. The book was the first ever published by the Institute of American Indian Studies at USD. The two also collaborated on books published by the Indian Tribal Series of Phoenix, Arizona, including a study of the Ponca, a tribe always at peace with the United States but forced against its wishes to inhabit Indian Territory when its lands were given to the Sioux. The pair also completed a study of the Ottawa of Oklahoma and the Comanche of Texas, the southwest and the southern Great Plains.\n\nIn 1989, Wolff and Cash collaborated again on an article entitled \"South Dakotans Remember the Great Depression.\"\n\nIn February 1975, Wolff edited \"The Civil War Diary of Arthur Calvin Mellette\" for the South Dakota State Historical Society.Arthur Calvin Mellette fought with Company H of the Ninth Indiana Volunteers from 1864-1865. He was elected in 1885 as the last territorial governor, when the capital was placed in Huron, South Dakota. He3 was elected as a Republican in 1889 as the first governor at statehood.\n\nWolff also edited \"The Korean War Journal of Lloyd R. Moses.\" Former educator Lloyd Roosevelt Moses (1904–2000), a native of Fairfax, South Dakota, served in both World War II and the Korean War and attained the rank of major general in the United States Army. He was residing in Vermillion, South Dakota, when Wolff edited Moses's wartime diary.\n\nIn 1975, Wolff published the article entitled \"Father Sylvester Eisenman and Marty Mission\" in \"South Dakota History.\" Eisenman (1891–1948), a Jesuit priest originally from New Albany, Indiana, established in 1922 a boarding school among the Yankton Sioux tribe. This \"Marty School\" was located in Marty in Charles Mix County in southern South Dakota, and financed with assistance from the Roman Catholic Sisters of the Blessed Sacrament in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Eisenman worked to expand and promote the school through publication of \"The Little Bronzed Angel,\" which informed donors of the progress of the institution.\n\nFrom 1981-2002, Wolff was the book review editor of \"South Dakota History\", the quarterly publication founded in 1970 by the South Dakota State Historical Society Press. In 2002, Wolff received the Robinson Award, the highest honor bestowed by the historical society for his effectivenss in assigning and editing the book reviews. The prize is named for two past directors of the society.\n\nAfter Wolff retired from USD, he was from 1996-1999 an adjunct professor of history at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology in Rapid City in southwestern South Dakota. For several years after 1999, he was a professor of history at Western Iowa Tech Community College in Sioux City, Iowa. He later moved to his current residence in Omaha, Nebraska.\n"}
{"id": "22182721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22182721", "title": "GhostNet", "text": "GhostNet\n\nGhostNet () is the name given by researchers at the Information Warfare Monitor to a large-scale cyber spying operation discovered in March 2009. The operation is likely associated with an Advanced Persistent Threat. Its command and control infrastructure is based mainly in the People's Republic of China and has infiltrated high-value political, economic and media locations in 103 countries. Computer systems belonging to embassies, foreign ministries and other government offices, and the Dalai Lama's Tibetan exile centers in India, London and New York City were compromised.\n\nGhostNet was discovered and named following a 10-month investigation by the Infowar Monitor (IWM), carried out after IWM researchers approached the Dalai Lama's representative in Geneva suspecting that their computer network had been infiltrated. The IWM is composed of researchers from The SecDev Group and Canadian consultancy and the Citizen Lab, Munk Centre for International Studies at the University of Toronto; the research findings were published in the \"Infowar Monitor\", an affiliated publication. Researchers from the University of Cambridge's Computer Laboratory, supported by the Institute for Information Infrastructure Protection, also contributed to the investigation at one of the three locations in Dharamshala, where the Tibetan government-in-exile is located. The discovery of the 'GhostNet', and details of its operations, were reported by \"The New York Times\" on March 29, 2009. Investigators focused initially on allegations of Chinese cyber-espionage against the Tibetan exile community, such as instances where email correspondence and other data were extracted.\n\nCompromised systems were discovered in the embassies of India, South Korea, Indonesia, Romania, Cyprus, Malta, Thailand, Taiwan, Portugal, Germany and Pakistan and the office of the Prime Minister of Laos. The foreign ministries of Iran, Bangladesh, Latvia, Indonesia, Philippines, Brunei, Barbados and Bhutan were also targeted. No evidence was found that U.S. or UK government offices were infiltrated, although a NATO computer was monitored for half a day and the computers of the Indian embassy in Washington, D.C., were infiltrated.\n\nSince its discovery, GhostNet has attacked other government networks, for example Canadian official financial departments in early 2011, forcing them off-line. Governments commonly do not admit such attacks, which must be verified by official but anonymous sources.\n\nEmails are sent to target organizations that contain contextually relevant information. These emails contain malicious attachments, that when opened, drop a Trojan horse on to the system. This Trojan connects back to a control server, usually located in China, to receive commands. The infected computer will then execute the command specified by the control server. Occasionally, the command specified by the control server will cause the infected computer to download and install a Trojan known as Gh0st Rat that allows attackers to gain complete, real-time control of computers running Microsoft Windows. Such a computer can be controlled or inspected by attackers, and the software even has the ability to turn on camera and audio-recording functions of infected computers, enabling monitors to perform surveillance.\n\nThe researchers from the IWM stated they could not conclude that the Chinese government was responsible for the spy network. However, a report from researchers at the University of Cambridge says they believe that the Chinese government is behind the intrusions they analyzed at the Office of the Dalai Lama.\n\nResearchers have also noted the possibility that GhostNet was an operation run by private citizens in China for profit or for patriotic reasons, or created by intelligence agencies from other countries such as Russia or the United States. The Chinese government has stated that China \"strictly forbids any cyber crime.\"\n\nThe \"Ghostnet Report\" documents several unrelated infections at Tibetan-related organizations in addition to the Ghostnet infections. By using the email addresses provided by the IWM report, Scott J. Henderson had managed to trace one of the operators of one of the infections (non-Ghostnet) to Chengdu. He identifies the hacker as a 27-year-old man who had attended the University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, and currently connected with the Chinese hacker underground.\n\nDespite the lack of evidence to pinpoint the Chinese government as responsible for intrusions against Tibetan-related targets, researchers at Cambridge have found actions taken by Chinese government officials that corresponded with the information obtained via computer instrusions. One such incident involved a diplomat who was pressured by Beijing after receiving an email invitation to a visit with the Dalai Lama from his representatives.\n\nAnother incident involved a Tibetan woman who was interrogated by Chinese intelligence officers and was shown transcripts of her online conversations. However, there are other possible explanations for this event. Drelwa uses QQ and other instant messengers to communicate with Chinese Internet users. In 2008, IWM found that TOM-Skype, the Chinese version of Skype, was logging and storing text messages exchanged between users. It is possible that the Chinese authorities acquired the chat transcripts through these means.\n\nIWM researchers have also found that when detected, GhostNet is consistently controlled from IP addresses located on the island of Hainan, China, and have pointed out that Hainan is home to the Lingshui signals intelligence facility and the Third Technical Department of the People’s Liberation Army. Furthermore, one of GhostNet's four control servers has been revealed to be a government server.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24362094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24362094", "title": "Hakuhō period", "text": "Hakuhō period\n\nThe was an unofficial of Emperor Tenmu after \"Hakuchi\" and before \"Suchō\". The duration of this discrete non-\"nengō\" timespan lasted from 673 through 686.\n\nThe Hakuhō period is more often used as a general term which describes a wider range of years.\n\nHakuhō is conventionally used to identify a broad historical and artistic period of the late seventh century and early eighth century. The term is primarily used in art history and is thought to have been introduced at the 1910 Japan–British Exhibition.\n\nIn general historical contexts, the Asuka period is understood as overlapping the Hakuhō period; and the Hakuhō can be construed as having been followed by a Tempyō period in art history. The Hakuhō period was marked by the rapid expansion of Buddhism and its dissemination throughout Japan. Artistically the period was influenced directly by the Sui and Tang dynasties, and influenced indirectly by Gupta art from India.\n\nBeginning with the Taika Reforms, the period saw a shift towards more structured, more bureaucratic forms of government, based largely on Chinese models. The first \"permanent\" Imperial capital was established at Fujiwara-kyō in 694. Though the capital was moved again only sixteen years later, this represented an important step in the development of the Yamato state, the seat of power of which had been quite transitory and nomadic up until this point. The decades of the Hakuhō period also saw many other major developments in political structure and in culture, including the introduction of writing and development of calligraphy in Japan. Chinese characters had been seen and used in Japan for centuries prior, but it was during the 7th century that, as one scholar describes it, \"writing and the art of its production—or calligraphy—has a sudden and spectacular flowering\".\n\nThe term \"Hakuhō period\" is chiefly applied in discussions of architecture, sculpture, and painting.\n\nHundreds of Buddhist temples were built in the Hakuhō period, including Kawara-dera, Daikandai-ji and Yakushi-ji in Fujiwara-kyō, in styles showing considerable Tang-dynasty China influence. Wakakusa-dera, which had burnt down in 670, was also rebuilt at this time as Hōryū-ji, showing the same stylistic influences. When Baekje was ruined in 660, The refugee was naturalized in Japan. And they played a major role in designing and constructing these temples, and taught and trained their Japanese counterparts.\n\nAt the time, stone and bronze were the chief media used for Buddhist statues in Japan, and would remain so on the continent for quite some time to come; however, in Japan, the wood carved statues which would come to dominate in later centuries began to appear as early as the Hakuhō period.\n\nThe statues in Hōryū-ji serve as good examples of Hakuhō period sculpture; nearly all date to that period. Most are made of wood, with a single block used for the bodies, and separate blocks for secondary elements, such as demons upon which the deity treads, halos, and parts of the deities' skirts. All were originally painted and gilded, and bear rounder forms with a stronger impact of three-dimensionality than the Asuka period statues of earlier decades. In these aspects and others, they reflect strong stylistic influences from Three Kingdoms of Korea, Tang-dynasty China, and from the stylistic heritage of the Northern Qi and Sui Dynasties which came before. Another group of statues from the same temple show another important development, namely, the first use of lacquer not solely as a protective or decorative coating for statues, but as a material from which accessories, such as a bodhisattva's jewellery, hair ornaments, and hair, might be made, to be attached onto the wooden sculpture.\n\nA series of mural paintings on the walls of the \"kondō\" (\"Golden Hall\"; Main Hall) of Hōryū-ji, depicting various Buddhist figures, represent some of the best extant examples of Hakuhō period painting. Though a 1949 fire left most of the paintings blackened to the point of illegibility, the process can still be determined. Plaster was applied to the walls layer by layer, each layer increasingly fine. Once the plaster was dry, holes were punched in the preliminary sketches for the painting (known as a cartoon), and colored sand or powder was applied, passing through the holes and sticking to the surface of the wall, providing an outline or rough guideline for the painter to then follow. These Hōryū-ji murals represent two painting elements distinctive of this period: the use of red rather than black to outline the figures and, on other sections, a consistent line lacking calligraphic flourish and known as \"iron wire\" line.\n\nYakushi-ji was founded in the Hakuhō period in 680. \nA number of Buddhist statues at Yakushi-ji temple are counted among the finest extant examples of Hakuhō period sculpture, reflecting the influence of Tang Chinese styles more strongly than their counterparts in Hōryū-ji.\n\nA noteworthy consists of three sculptures representing the Yakushi Buddha and two bodhisattvas Nikkō and Gakkō) which are described as \"full, fleshy figures conceived in the round and treated as completely natural forms\". These three figures were cast in bronze; and they were replaced in the Edo period after their destruction in earthquake or fire. The bodhisattvas are posed in the \"hip-slung\" (Sanskrit: \"tribhanga\") pose and other Chinese motifs including grape leaves and the Symbols of the Four Directions are prevalent.\n\n"}
{"id": "58221253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58221253", "title": "History of the Basque language", "text": "History of the Basque language\n\nBasque (; ) is a pre-Indo-European language spoken in the Basque Country, extending over a strip along eastern areas of the Bay of Biscay in Spain and straddling the western Pyrenees. It is classified as a language isolate, with no other known akin language since Antiquity, when a genetic kinship is established with Aquitanian.\n\nBasque has been considered the last remnant of a wider, Western European linguistic stratum before Indo-European languages arrived in the area during the Iron Age. The Roman period bears witness to the existence of several peoples, place-names and inscriptions showing names with Basque-like morphology and lexical roots around the Pyrenees. Basque has borrowed during its history loanwords and structures from neighbouring Celtic and Latin/Romance languages (adstratum), holding a dynamic interaction with them. Basque shows a receding geographical trend overall at least since the Early Middle Ages. During the last 400 years its geographical extent has been largely confined to seven districts, the Basque Country (\"Euskal Herria\"). \n\nBasque venturers took their language overseas since the 16th century, especially into the Americas, while it came to be diluted in the larger, prevailing colonial languages, like Spanish, French, or English. Basque remained until late-20th century a language steeped in oral tradition and little use in writing, with its first written book attested in 1545, the \"Linguae Vasconum Primitiae\". Basque was never used for official documents, and came to be gradually excluded as an oral communication language from governing, educative, administrative bodies, and finally also from Church. During 20th century, scholars, writers and activists endevoured to develop a long-discussed aspiration to create an unified, formal standard, which finally crystallized in standard Basque (\"euskara batua\") as of 1968.\n\n"}
{"id": "16443898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16443898", "title": "Illusionism (art)", "text": "Illusionism (art)\n\nIllusionism in art history means either the artistic tradition in which artists create a work of art that appears to share the physical space with the viewer or more broadly the attempt to represent physical appearances precisely – also called mimesis. The term realist may be used in this sense, but that also has rather different meanings in art, as it is also used to cover the choice of ordinary everyday subject-matter, and avoiding idealizing subjects. Illusionism encompasses a long history, from the deceptions of Zeuxis and Parrhasius to the works of muralist Richard Haas in the twentieth century, that includes trompe-l'oeil, anamorphosis, Op art, Abstract Illusionism, and Illusionistic ceiling painting techniques such as \"di sotto in sù\" and \"quadratura\". Sculptural illusionism includes works, often painted, that appear real from a distance. Other forms, such as the illusionistic tradition in the theatre, and Samuel van Hoogstraten's \"peepshow\"-boxes from the seventeenth century, combine illusionistic techniques and media. \n\nThe development of increasingly accurate representation of the visual appearances of things has a long history in art. It includes elements such as the accurate depiction of the anatomy of humans and beasts, of perspective and effects of distance, and of detailed effects of light and colour. The Art of the Upper Paleolithic in Europe achieved remarkably lifelike depictions of beasts, and Ancient Egyptian art developed conventions involving both stylization and idealization that nevertheless allowed very effective depictions to be produced very widely and consistently. Ancient Greek art is commonly recognised as having made great progress in the representation of anatomy, and has remained an influential model ever since. No original works on panels or walls by the great Greek painters survive, but from literary accounts, and the surviving corpus of derivative works (mostly Graeco-Roman works in mosaic) it is clear that illusionism was highly valued in painting. Pliny the Elder's famous story of birds pecking at grapes painted by Zeuxis in the 5th century BC may well be a legend, but indicates the aspiration of Greek painting. As well as accuracy in shape, light and colour, Roman paintings show an unscientific but effective knowledge of representing distant objects smaller than closer ones, and representing regular geometric forms such as the roof and walls of a room with perspective. This progress in illusionistic effects in no way meant a rejection of idealism; statues of Greek gods and heroes attempt to represent with accuracy idealized and beautiful forms, though other works, such as heads of the famously ugly Socrates, were allowed to fall below these ideal standards of beauty. Roman portraiture, when not under too much Greek influence, shows a greater commitment to a truthful depiction of its subjects.\nThe art of Late Antiquity famously rejected illusionism for expressive force, a change already well underway by the time Christianity began to affect the art of the elite. In the West classical standards of illusionism did not begin to be reached again until the Late medieval or Early Renaissance period, and were helped by the development of new techniques of oil painting which allowed very subtle and precise effects of light to be painted using very small brushes and several layers of paint and glaze. Scientific methods of representing perspective were developed in Italy and gradually spread across Europe, and accuracy in anatomy rediscovered under the influence of classical art. As in classical times, idealism remained the norm.\n\nThe accurate depiction of landscape in painting had also been developing in Early Netherlandish and Renaissance painting, and was then brought to a very high level in 17th-century Dutch Golden Age painting, with very subtle techniques for depicting a range of weather conditions and degrees of natural light. After being another development of Early Netherlandish painting, by 1600 European portraiture could give a very good likeness in both painting and sculpture, though the subjects were often idealized by smoothing features or giving them an artificial pose. Still life paintings, and still life elements in other works, played a considerable role in developing illusionistic painting, though in the Netherlandish tradition of flower painting they long lacked \"realism\", in that flowers from all seasons were typically used, either from the habit of assembling compositions from individual drawings, or as a deliberate convention; the large displays of bouquets in vases, though close to modern displays of cut flowers that they have influenced, were entirely atypical of 17th-century habits, where flowers were displayed one at a time. Intriguingly, having led the development of illusionic painting, still life was to be equally significant in its abandonment in Cubism.\n\nIn his writings and art criticisms during the mid-1960s art critic/artist Donald Judd claimed that illusionism in painting undermined the artform itself. Judd implied that painting was dead, claiming painting was a \"lie\" because it depicted the \"illusion\" of three-dimensionality on a flat surface. Judd claimed that painting needed to recognize its objecthood in real space and reject illusion. Donald Judd wrote in “Specific Objects” in 1965:\nIn the Webster Texas Holiday Inn, close to the Houston Space Center, there is a double illusion ceiling by muralist Frank Wilson, commissioned in honor of US astronauts. Other double illusion murals exist in rooms for officials as well as the dining room, depicting a night sky under darkness and illuminated by glowing minerals. Under normal light, clouds and birds are observed.\n"}
{"id": "113595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=113595", "title": "International Council on Monuments and Sites", "text": "International Council on Monuments and Sites\n\nThe International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS; ) is a professional association that works for the conservation and protection of cultural heritage places around the world. Now headquartered in Paris, ICOMOS was founded in 1965 in Warsaw as a result of the Venice Charter of 1964, and offers advice to UNESCO on World Heritage Sites.\n\nThe idea behind ICOMOS dates to the Athens Conference on the restoration of historic buildings in 1931, organized by the International Museums Office. The Athens Charter of 1931 introduced the concept of international heritage. In 1964, the Second Congress of Architects and Specialists of Historic Buildings, meeting in Venice, adopted 13 resolutions. The first created the International Charter on the Conservation and Restoration of Monuments and Sites, better known as Venice Charter; the second, put forward by UNESCO, created ICOMOS to carry out this charter.\n\nICOMOS currently has over 9,500 individual members in 144 countries, 110 national committees and 28 international scientific committees. With rare exceptions, each member must be qualified in the field of conservation and a practicing landscape architect, architect, archaeologist, anthropologist, town planner, engineer, administrator of heritage, historian, art historian, palaeontologist or archivist.\n\nICOMOS is a partner in the International Committee of the Blue Shield (ICBS), which works to protect the world's cultural heritage threatened by wars and natural disasters.\n\nICOMOS is composed of its national committees (NCs), to which individuals and institutions apply for membership. In addition to the national committees, ICOMOS has a series of international scientific committees (ISCs), in which experts in a certain field of activity within the context of heritage conservation exchange views and debate.\n\nThe organization is headed by a president, five vice-presidents, a secretary-general and a treasurer all directly elected by the general assembly of the organization. 12 additional members are also elected by the General Assembly into the Executive Committee and five further members are co-opted into the executive board in order to represent regions of the world or areas of expertise that were not part of the executive committee following the elections. \"Ex officio\" members of the executive committee are the president of the advisory committee and the previous presidents of ICOMOS, who attend in advisory capacity. The executive committee is the executive body of ICOMOS.\n\nThe advisory committee is composed of the chairpersons of the national committees, the chairpersons of the international scientific committees and the president of ICOMOS as an \"ex officio\" member. The advisory committee was given the task to advise and make recommendations to the General Assembly and the Executive Committee on matters which concern policy and programme priorities.\n\nNational committees are subsidiary organizations created in the countries which are members of UNESCO. They bring together individual and institutional members and offer them a framework for discussion and an exchange of information. ICOMOS has national committees in 108 countries as of August 2015. Each national committee adopts its own rules of procedure and elaborates its own program according to the goals and aims of ICOMOS.\n\n\nUsually known as \"international scientific committees\" (ISCs), these entities focus on specialised areas of heritage conservation and are made up of members of the organisation drawn from those specialist areas. The scientific programmes of the organisation are coordinated by the 'scientific council\" made up of the presidents of the ISCs. The following ISCs operate within ICOMOS: \nIn the tradition of the Athens and Venice Charters, ICOMOS has in the years since its formation developed and adopted a number of other charters and doctrinal texts which provide guidance to heritage conservation professionals in their work. Most such documents are created by the international committees of the organisation and thereafter adopted by the triennial General Assembly. The texts each address a specific area of professional practice in the heritage conservation professions. Following the 17th ICOMOS General Assembly held in Paris in November 2011, the list of charters is as follows:\n\n\nIn addition to the above there are fifteen other doctrinal texts. These include the \"Nara Document\".\n\nMany of the national committees of ICOMOS have adopted their own charters which set standards for heritage conservation practice at national level.\n\nIn 1972, ICOMOS was named by the UNESCO World Heritage Convention as one of the three formal advisory bodies to the World Heritage Committee, along with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and the International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property (ICCROM). As the professional and scientific adviser to the committee on all aspects of the cultural heritage, ICOMOS is responsible for the evaluation of all nominations of cultural properties made to the World Heritage List with the criteria laid down by the World Heritage Committee. In addition to the basic criterion of “outstanding universal value,” ICOMOS evaluates nominations for aspects related to authenticity, management, and conservation as specified in the World Heritage Convention.\n\nThe evaluation of nominations involves consultation between the wide-ranging expertise represented by the organization’s membership and its national and scientific committees. Members are also sent on expert missions to carry out on-site evaluations of nominated properties. This extensive consultation results in the preparation of detailed recommendations that are submitted to the World Heritage Committee at its annual meetings.\n\nICOMOS is also involved, through its International Secretariat and its national and scientific committees, in the preparation of reports on the state of conservation of properties inscribed on the World Heritage List. It advises the UNESCO World Heritage Centre on requests for technical assistance received from states that are party to (i.e. have ratified) the World Heritage Convention. ICOMOS maintains a full archive of nominations and reports at the documentation centre at its Paris headquarters.\n\nIn November 1994, at the Nara Conference on Authenticity, ICOMOS published the Nara Document on Authenticity, which addresses the need for a broader understanding of cultural diversity and cultural heritage in conservation efforts involving cultural heritage sites.\n\nIn 1979, ICOMOS instituted its highest award, named after its first president, Piero Gazzola, to laud the life-time achievements of one of its members. The prize is awarded every three years, and comprises a commemorative medal, a diploma and 10,000 US dollars.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25677122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25677122", "title": "Italian Baroque architecture", "text": "Italian Baroque architecture\n\nItalian Baroque architecture refers to baroque architecture in Italy.\n\nThe sacred architecture of the Baroque period had its beginnings in the Italian paradigm of the basilica with crossed dome and nave. One of the first Roman structures to break with the Mannerist conventions exemplified in the Gesù, was the church of Santa Susanna, designed by Carlo Maderno in 1596. The dynamic rhythm of columns and pilasters, central massing, and the protrusion and condensed central decoration add complexity to the structure. There is an incipient playfulness with the rules of classic design, still maintaining rigor. They had domed roofs.\n\nThe same emphasis on plasticity, continuity and dramatic effects is evident in the work of Pietro da Cortona, illustrated by San Luca e Santa Martina (1635) and Santa Maria della Pace (1656). The latter building, with concave wings devised to simulate a theatrical set, presses forward to fill a tiny piazza in front of it. Other Roman ensembles of the period are likewise suffused with theatricality, dominating the surrounding cityscape as a sort of theatrical environment.\n\nProbably the best known example of such an approach is trapezoidal Saint Peter's Square, which has been praised as a masterstroke of Baroque theatre. The square is shaped by two colonnades, designed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini on an unprecedented colossal scale to suit the space and provide emotions of awe. Bernini's own favourite design was the polychromatic oval church of Sant'Andrea al Quirinale (1658), which, with its lofty altar and soaring dome, provides a concentrated sampling of the new architecture. His idea of the Baroque townhouse is typified by the Palazzo Barberini (1629) and Palazzo Chigi-Odescalchi (1664), both in Rome.\n\nBernini's chief rival in the papal capital was Francesco Borromini, whose designs deviate from the regular compositions of the ancient world and Renaissance even more dramatically. Acclaimed by later generations as a revolutionary in architecture, Borromini condemned the anthropomorphic approach of the 16th century, choosing to base his designs on complicated geometric figures (modules). Borromini's architectural space seems to expand and contract when needed, showing some affinity with the late style of Michelangelo. His iconic masterpiece is the diminutive church of San Carlo alle Quattro Fontane, distinguished by a corrugated oval plan and complex convex-concave rhythms. A later work, Sant'Ivo alla Sapienza, displays the same antipathy to the flat surface and playful inventiveness, epitomized by a corkscrew lantern dome.\n\nFollowing the death of Bernini in 1680, Carlo Fontana emerged as the most influential architect working in Rome. His early style is exemplified by the slightly concave façade of San Marcello al Corso). Fontana's academic approach, though lacking in the dazzling inventiveness of his Roman predecessors, exerted substantial influence on Baroque architecture both through his prolific writings and through a number of architects whom he trained and who would disseminate the Baroque idioms throughout 18th-century Europe.\n\nThe 18th century saw the capital of Europe's architectural world transferred from Rome to Paris. The Italian Rococo, which flourished in Rome from the 1720s onward, was profoundly influenced by the ideas of Borromini. The most talented architects active in Rome — Francesco de Sanctis (Spanish Steps, 1723) and Filippo Raguzzini (Piazza Sant'Ignazio, 1727) — had little influence outside their native country, as did numerous practitioners of the Sicilian Baroque, including Giovanni Battista Vaccarini, Andrea Palma, and Giuseppe Venanzio Marvuglia.\n\nThe last phase of Baroque architecture in Italy is exemplified by Luigi Vanvitelli's Caserta Palace, reputedly the largest building erected in Europe in the 18th century. Indebted to contemporary French and Spanish models, the palace is skillfully related to the landscape. At Naples and Caserta, Vanvitelli practiced a sober classicizing academic style, with equal attention to aesthetics and engineering, a style that would make an easy transition to Neoclassicism.\n\nSicilian Baroque is the distinctive form of Baroque architecture that took hold on the island of Sicily, off the southern coast of Italy, in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. The style is recognizable not only by its typical Baroque curves and flourishes, but also by its grinning masks and putti and a particular flamboyance that has given Sicily a unique architectural identity.\n\nThe Sicilian Baroque style came to fruition during a major surge of rebuilding following a massive earthquake in 1693. Previously, the Baroque style had been used on the island in a naïve and parochial manner, having evolved from hybrid native architecture rather than being derived from the great Baroque architects of Rome. After the earthquake, local architects, many of them trained in Rome, were given plentiful opportunities to recreate the more sophisticated Baroque architecture that had become popular in mainland Italy; the work of these local architects — and the new genre of architectural engravings that they pioneered — inspired more local architects to follow their lead. Around 1730, Sicilian architects had developed a confidence in their use of the Baroque style. Their particular interpretation led to further evolution to a personalised and highly localised art form on the island. From the 1780s onwards, the style was gradually replaced by the newly-fashionable neoclassicism.\n\nThe highly decorative Sicilian Baroque period lasted barely fifty years, and perfectly reflected the social order of the island at a time when, nominally ruled by Spain, it was in fact governed by a wealthy and often extravagant aristocracy into whose hands ownership of the primarily agricultural economy was highly concentrated. Its Baroque architecture gives the island an architectural character that has lasted into the 21st century.\n\nIn the north of Italy, notably Turin, the monarchs from the House of Savoy were particularly receptive to the new style. They employed a brilliant triad of architects—Guarino Guarini, Filippo Juvarra and Bernardo Vittone—to illustrate the grandiose political ambitions and the newly acquired royal status of their dynasty.\n\nGuarini was a peripatetic monk who combined many traditions (including that of Gothic architecture) to create irregular structures remarkable for their oval columns and unconventional façades. Building upon the findings of contemporary geometry and stereotomy, Guarini elaborated the concept of \"architectura obliqua\", which approximated Borromini's style in both theoretical and structural audacity. Guarini's Palazzo Carignano (1679) may have been the most flamboyant application of the Baroque style to the design of a private house in the 17th century.\n\nFluid forms, weightless details and airy prospects of Juvarra's architecture anticipated the art of Rococo. Although his practice ranged well beyond Turin, Juvarra's most arresting designs were created for Victor Amadeus II of Sardinia. The visual impact of his Basilica di Superga (1717) derives from its soaring roofline and masterful placement on a hill above Turin. Rustic ambience encouraged a freer articulation of architectural form at the royal hunting lodge of the Palazzina di Stupinigi (1729). Juvarra finished his short but eventful career in Madrid, where he worked on the royal palaces at La Granja and Aranjuez.\n\nAmong the many who were profoundly influenced by the brilliance and diversity of Juvarra and Guarini none was more important than Bernardo Vittone. This Piedmontese architect is remembered for an outcrop of flamboyant Rococo churches, quatrefoil in plan and delicate in detailing. His sophisticated designs often feature multiple vaults, structures within structures and domes within domes.\n\nFrancesco Maria Richini (1584-1658) was the most important Milanese architect.\n\nBetween 1607 and 1630 he built the Church of San Giuseppe, which, like Chiesa del Gesù in Rome, was meant to practice the excess over the Mannerist academic vogue until then.\nRichini introduced a combined plan, consisting of two central areas derived from Chiesa di Sant' Alessandro, also in Milan; the plastic effect is also noticeable in the façade, decorated by a series of overlapping niches.\n\nSubsequently, in 1627 he devoted himself to the façade of the Collegio Elvetico (now the seat of \"Archivio di Stato\"), where he aimed at an integration between the interior and exterior through a concave prospectus. This interesting solution, possibly the first curved façade of the Baroque period, predates certain themes later expressed by Borromini, and confirms Richini as one of the greatest architects of the early Baroque.\n\nThe Venetian Baroque, according to local practice, saw Baldassarre Longhena (1598–1682) as its principal exponent. After the pestilence of 1630, he began the construction of the Church of Santa Maria della Salute, using a central plan. In the octagonal body of the basilica, Longhena added a sanctuary bordered on either side by two apses, similar to that adopted by Andrea Palladio in the Basilica del Santissimo Redentore; this solution strengthens the longitudinal axis of the temple, which in fact became the central body in the proper nave. The baroque style of the temple is evident in the conformation of the external mass, located along the Grand Canal: the octagonal body, covered by a large dome, is flanked by the crown of the shrine and two bell towers.\n\nLonghena also worked within civic architecture: its Ca' Pesaro presents a seemingly conventional plan, but the play of light and shadows that are set on the richly ornate façade leads to a typically Baroque style.\n\nIn any case, the exasperation of Loghena's plastic art details peaked in the façade of Chiesa dell'Ospedaletto (completed in the 1670s), decorated with a fancifully and richly with atlantes, giant heads and lion masks.\n\nIn Genoa, Baroque architecture, since the end of the 16th century, saw the construction of a series of large buildings that critics have deemed among the most important of the Italian landscape. Among these was the Palazzo Doria Tursi, where the planimetric configuration of the vestibule, combined with the highest indoor garden through a wide staircase, declares the presence of a movement in depth.\n\nThis solution was taken up by Bartolomeo Bianco (1590 - 1657) in what may be considered his masterpiece: the college of the Jesuits, which later became the headquarters of the University of Genoa (1634, approximately). The building has a U-shaped plan, but compared to previous one shows greater permeability between the inside and the yard; in fact, using the conformation of the very steep terrain, Bianco created a unique urban scenery, with a porch as wide as the yard and a series of overlapping arches and stairways.\n\n"}
{"id": "25040471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25040471", "title": "Italian ballet", "text": "Italian ballet\n\nItalian ballet is the training methods and aesthetic qualities seen in classical ballet in Italy. Ballet has a long history in Italy, and it is widely believed that the earliest predecessor of modern-day ballet originated in the Italian courts of the Renaissance. Two predominant training systems are used to teach Italian ballet today: the Cecchetti method, devised by Enrico Cecchetti, and that of the La Scala Theatre Ballet School.\n\nBallet began during the Italian Renaissance court as an outgrowth of court pageantry, where aristocratic weddings were lavish celebrations. Court musicians and dancers collaborated to provide elaborate entertainment for them. Ballet was further shaped by the French \"ballet de cour\", which consisted of social dances performed by the nobility in tandem with music, speech, verse, song, pageant, decor and costume. When Catherine de' Medici, an Italian aristocrat with an interest in the arts, married the French crown heir Henry II, she brought her enthusiasm for dance to France and provided financial support. These glittering entertainments supported the aims of court politics and usually were organized around mythological themes.\n\nA ballet of the Renaissance was a far cry from the form of theatrical entertainment known to audiences today. Tutus, ballet slippers and pointe work were not yet used. The choreography was adapted from court dance steps. Performers dressed in fashions of the times. For women that meant formal gowns that covered their legs to the ankle. Early ballet was participatory, with the audience joining the dance towards the end.\n\nDomenico da Piacenza was one of the first dancing masters. Along with his students, Antonio Cornazzano and Guglielmo Ebreo, he was trained in dance and responsible for teaching nobles the art. Da Piacenza left one work: \" De arte saltandi et choreus ducendi\" (On the art of dancing and conducting dances), which was put together by his students.\n\nBallet, if not the first, produced and shown was Baldassare de Belgiojoso's balletto comico, also known as Balthasar de Beaujoyeulx's Ballet Comique de la Reine (1581) and was a ballet comique (ballet drama). In the same year, the publication of Fabritio Caroso's \"Il Ballarino\", a technical manual on court dancing, both performance and social, helped to establish Italy as a centre of technical ballet development.\n\nAt first, ballets were woven in to the midst of an opera to allow the audience a moment of relief from the dramatic intensity. By the mid-seventeenth century, Italian ballets in their entirety were performed in between the acts of an opera. Over time, Italian ballets became a more beloved and important part of theatrical life: ballet companies in Italy's major opera houses employed an average of four to twelve dancers; in 1815 many companies employed anywhere from eighty to one hundred dancers.\n"}
{"id": "32852720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32852720", "title": "Janzour Museum", "text": "Janzour Museum\n\nThe Janzur Museum (also known as the Janzour Museum) is an archaeological museum located in Janzur, Libya. The museum showcases a funerary complex that is still under excavation by the Archaeology Department in Tripoli.\n"}
{"id": "36639777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36639777", "title": "Japanese Archaeological Association", "text": "Japanese Archaeological Association\n\nThe (JAA) was established in 1948 and is a nationwide organization concerned with the archaeology of Japan and the preservation of its Cultural Properties. At the time of its establishment there were 81 members and by 1998, 3,387 members, with the majority involved in cultural property management and research in government agencies.\n\nSince 1994 the JAA has published the journal \"Nihon Kōkogaku\" (Journal of the Japanese Archaeological Association) (日本考古学).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49888477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49888477", "title": "Jose Corona Nuñez", "text": "Jose Corona Nuñez\n\nJosé Corona Núñez (July 4, 1906 – January 6, 2002) was a Mexican author, anthropologist, and history professor who discovered several important archeological sites throughout México. His main body of work revolved around his native state of Michoacán, and in particular the Tarascan or Purépecha culture.\n\nJosé Corona Núñez was born in Cuitzeo del Porvenir on July 4, 1906. His father was Marcelino Corona García and his mother was María del Pilar Núñez Berrospe. From an early age he attended the Agustino Convent of Cuitzeo and helped with the various common rituals. \nThrough his involvement with the convent Corona Núñez decided to pursuit priesthood. He would later clarify that his primary motivation was to continue to learn and given his family's limited resources private schooling was not an option. In January 1920 he began his seminary studies in the San Pablo Convent of Yuriria, Guanajuato. There he studied Latin, Greek, French, Grammar, Religion, and Mexican history, amongst other topics. He then moved to another convent in San Luis Potosí to continue his studies as a Hermit and continue his studies. On October 2, 1923, at the age of 17, he became Friar Angel in the Order of Saint Augustine. However, the following year he resigned by mailing a letter to the Prior General in Rome asking for his removal. The last religious ceremony in which he participated took place in his native convent of Cuitzeo in which he was disrobed and he removed all emblems (belt, cross, etc.) and signed a document addressed to the Vatican declaring the acknowledgement of his request, on April 5, 1926.\n\nCorona Núñez received a scholarship to attend the National School of Anthropology and History (\"Escuela Nacional de Antropología e Historia\"). As a student he worked with Donald D. Brand in his work \"Quiroga, A Mexican Municipio\". After his studies he became a rural teacher and eventually director of various primary schools throughout Michoacan. He later became Director of the Anthropology Department of the State of Nayarit, founded the Anthropology Museums of Tepic and Colima, and was in charge of the Anthropology Department of the University of Michoacan.\n\nAs an anthropologist José Corona Núnez discovered the circular pyramid of the Ixtlán del Rio archeological site.\n\nJosé Corona Núnez created more than 100 articles and published more than a dozen books throughout the 20th century. Some of the more well known are:\n"}
{"id": "15802801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15802801", "title": "Marian Zdziechowski", "text": "Marian Zdziechowski\n\nMarian Zdziechowski (30 April 1861, Nowosiółki, Minsk Governorate – 5 October 1938, Wilno) was a Polish philosopher, Slavist, publicist and cultural historian. Critic of fascist and communist totalitarianism. Representative of catastrophism and philosophical pessimism. He was a brother of Kazimierz Zdziechowski, writer.\n\nSince 1888 was a lecturer and since 1899 professor of Jagiellonian University. In 1919–1931 professor and 1925–1927 rector of Stefan Batory University. Since 1902 member of the Academy of Learning. \"Honoris causa\" in universities of Vilno, Tartu and Szeged.\n\nHis area of study was historical, literary, philosophical and religious problems. He was an initiator of Slavic Club in Kraków which was active from 1901 to 1914 and periodical \"Świat Słowiański\" (\"Slavic World\") published in the years of 1905–1914. Zdziechowski propagated idea of co-operation between all of Slavs. He was interested mainly in the problem of evil, modernism in Roman Catholic Church, ideology of Romanticism, and crisis of European culture, in which he indicated fascism and communism as a dangerous. He referred to thoughts of Vladimir Solovyov, Leo Tolstoy, Nikolai Berdyaev and Dmitry Merezhkovsky.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1850846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1850846", "title": "Matthew 1:5", "text": "Matthew 1:5\n\nMatthew 1:5 is the fifth verse of the Matthew 1 of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The verse is part of the section where the genealogy of Joseph, the legal father of Jesus, is listed.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nThis genealogy matches that given in several other places in the Bible, including . It covers the period after the Exodus to around the founding of the Kingdom of Israel. The passage carries the genealogy through Salmon, Boaz, Obed, and Jesse of which only Boaz is notable. It also mentions two women, Rahab and Ruth, both of whom are prominent Old Testament figures. \"For a full discussion of the women mentioned in Matthew's genealogy see \".\n\nWilliam F. Albright and C.S. Mann note that the author of Matthew spells Rahab's name as \"Rachab\", a departure from the Septuagint spelling Matthew usually uses. The \"Rachab\" form also appears in the works of Josephus. They speculate that this indicates a change in pronunciation during this period. Another problem, pointed out by Raymond E. Brown, is that Rahab's position in this verse does not meet other traditions. No other source has her marrying Salmon and giving birth to Boaz. Jewish tradition has her as the wife of Joshua, and thus, also in a different time period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6573614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6573614", "title": "Mesoamerican architecture", "text": "Mesoamerican architecture\n\nMesoamerican architecture is the set of architectural traditions produced by pre-Columbian cultures and civilizations of Mesoamerica, traditions which are best known in the form of public, ceremonial and urban monumental buildings and structures. The distinctive features of Mesoamerican architecture encompass a number of different regional and historical styles, which however are significantly interrelated. These styles developed throughout the different phases of Mesoamerican history as a result of the intensive cultural exchange between the different cultures of the Mesoamerican culture area through thousands of years. Mesoamerican architecture is mostly noted for its pyramids which are the largest such structures (outside of Ancient Egypt and the Chola Empire).\n\nOne interesting and widely researched topic is the relation between cosmovision, religion, geography, and architecture in Mesoamerica. Much seems to suggest that many traits of Mesoamerican architecture were governed by religious and mythological ideas. For example, the layout of most Mesoamerican cities seem to be influenced by the cardinal directions and their mythological and symbolic meanings in Mesoamerican culture.\n\nAnother part of Mesoamerican architecture is its iconography. The monumental architecture of Mesoamerica was decorated with images of religious and cultural significance, and also in many cases with writing in some of the Mesoamerican writing systems. Iconographic decorations and texts on buildings are important contributors to the overall current knowledge of pre-Columbian Mesoamerican society, history and religion.\n\nThe following tables shows the different phases of Mesoamerican Architecture and archeology and correlates them with the cultures, cities, styles and specific building that are notable from each period.\n\nAn important part of the Mesoamerican religious system was replicating their beliefs in concrete tangible forms, in effect making the world an embodiment of their beliefs. This meant that the Mesoamerican city was constructed to be a microcosm, manifesting the same division that existed in the religious, mythical geography—a division between the underworld and the human world. The underworld was represented by the direction north and many structures and buildings related to the underworld, such as tombs, are often found in the city's northern half. The southern part represented life, sustenance and rebirth and often contained structures related to the continuity and daily function of the city state, such as monuments depicting the noble lineages, or residential quarters, markets etc. Between the two halves of the north/south axis was the plaza, often containing stelae resembling the world tree the Mesoamerican axis mundi, and a ballcourt which served as a crossing point between the two worlds. \n\nSome Mesoamericanists argue that in religious symbolism the Mesoamerican monumental architecture pyramids were mountains, stelae were trees, and wells, ballcourts and cenotes were caves that provided access to the underworld.\n\nMesoamerican architecture is often designed to align to specific celestial events. Some pyramids, temples, and other structures were designed to achieve special lighting effects on particular days important in the Mesoamerican cosmovision. A famous example is the \"El Castillo\" pyramid at Chichen Itza, where a light-and-shadow effect can be observed during several weeks around the equinoxes. Contrary to a common opinion, however, there is no evidence that this phenomenon was the result of a purposeful design intended to commemorate the equinoxes. \n\nMuch Mesoamerican architecture is also aligned to roughly 15° east of north. Vincent H Malmstrom has argued that this is because of a general wish to align the pyramids to face the sunset on August 13, which was the beginning date of the Maya Long Count calendar. However, recent research has shown that the earliest orientations marking sunsets on August 13 (and April 30) occur outside of the Maya area. Their purpose must have been to record the dates separated by a period of 260 days (from August 13 to April 30), equivalent to the length of the sacred Mesoamerican calendrical count. In general, the orientations in Mesoamerican architecture tend to mark the dates separated by multiples of 13 and 20 days, i.e. of basic periods of the calendrical system. The distribution of these dates in the year suggests that the orientations allowed the use of observational calendars that facilitated the prediction of agriculturally significant dates. These conclusions are supported by the results of systematic research accomplished in various Mesoamerican regions, including central Mexico, the Maya Lowlands, Oaxaca, the Gulf Coast lowlands, and western and northern Mesoamerica. While solar orientations prevail, some prominent buildings were aligned to Venus extremes, a notable example being the Governor's Palace at Uxmal. Orientations to lunar standstill positions on the horizon have also been documented; they are particularly common along the Northeast Coast of the Yucatán peninsula, where the worship of the goddess Ixchel, associated with the Moon, is known to have had an outstanding importance during the Postclassic period.\nAt the heart of the Mesoamerican city were large plazas surrounded by the most important governmental and religious buildings, such as the royal acropolis, great pyramid temples and occasionally ballcourts.\n\nOften the most important religious temples sat atop the towering pyramids, presumably as the closest place to the heavens. While recent discoveries point toward the extensive use of pyramids as tombs, the temples themselves seem to rarely, if ever, contain burials. Residing atop the pyramids, some of over two-hundred feet, such as that at El Mirador, the temples were impressive and decorated structures themselves. Commonly topped with a roof comb, or superficial grandiose wall, these temples might have served as a type of propaganda.\n\nThe Mesoamerican ballgame ritual was a symbolic journey between the underworld and the world of the living, and many ball courts are found in the mid-part of the city functioning as a connection between the northern and southern halves of the city. All but the earliest ball courts are masonry structures. Over 1300 ball courts have been identified, and although there is a tremendous variation in size, they all have the same general shape: a long narrow alley flanked by two walls with horizontal, sloping, and sometimes vertical faces. The later vertical faces, such as those at Chichen Itza and El Tajin, are often covered with complex iconography and scenes of human sacrifice (see photo ).\n\nAlthough the alleys in early ball courts were open-ended, later ball courts had enclosed end-zones, giving the structure an -shape when viewed from above. The playing alley may be at ground level, or the ball court may be \"sunken\".\n\nBall courts were no mean feats of engineering. One of the sandstone stones on El Tajin's South Ball court is 11 m long and weighs more than 10 tons.\n\nLarge and often highly decorated, the palaces usually sat close to the center of a city and housed the population's elite. Any exceedingly large royal palace, or one consisting of many chambers on different levels might be referred to as an acropolis. However, often these were one-story and consisted of many small chambers and typically at least one interior courtyard; these structures appear to take into account the needed functionality required of a residence, as well as the decoration required for their inhabitants stature. Archaeologists seem to agree that many palaces are home to various tombs. At Copán, beneath over four-hundred years of later remodeling, a tomb for one of the ancient rulers has been discovered and the North Acropolis at Tikal appears to have been the site of numerous burials during the Terminal Pre-classic and Early Classic periods.\n\nThe most surprising aspect of the great Mesoamerican structures is their lack of many advanced technologies that would seem to be necessary for such constructions. Lacking metal tools, Mesoamerican architecture required one thing in abundance: manpower. Yet, beyond this enormous requirement, the remaining materials seem to have been readily available. They most often utilized limestone, which remained pliable enough to be worked with stone tools while being quarried, and only hardened once when removed from its bed. In addition to the structural use of limestone, much of their mortar consisted of crushed, burnt, and mixed limestone that mimicked the properties of cement and was used just as widely for stucco finishing as it was for mortar. However, later improvements in quarrying techniques reduced the necessity for this limestone-stucco as their stones began to fit quite perfectly, yet it remained a crucial element in some post and lintel roofs. A common building material in central Mexico was tezontle (a light, volcanic rock). It was common for palaces and monumental structures to be made of this rough stone and then covered with stucco or with a cantera veneer. Very large and ornate architectural ornaments were fashioned from a very enduring stucco (kalk), especially in the Mayan region, where a type of hydraulic limestone cement or concrete was also used.In the case of the common houses, wooden framing, adobe, and thatch were used to build homes over stone foundations. However, instances of what appear to be common houses of limestone have been discovered as well. Buildings were typically finished with high slanted roofs usually built of wood or thatch although stone roofs in these high slant fashions are also used rarely.\n\nAn architectural construction technique that employs large dry-laid limestone blocks (ca. 1 m x 50 cm x 30 cm) covered with a thick layer of stucco. This style was common in the northern Maya lowlands from the Preclassic until the early parts of the Early Classic.\n\nPyramids in Mesoamerican were platformed pyramids and many used a style called \"talud-tablero\", which first became common in Teotihuacan. This style consists of a platform structure, or the \"tablero,\" on top of a sloped \"talud\". Many different variants on the talud-tablero style arose throughout Mesoamerica, developing and manifesting itself differently among the various cultures.\n\nPalenque, Tikal, Copan, Tonina, the corbeled arch.\nChichén Itzá, Tula Hidalgo, chacmools, Atlantean figures, Quetzalcoatl designs.\n\nSo named after the Puuc hills in which this style developed and flourished during the latter portion of the Late Classic and throughout the Terminal Classic in the northern Maya lowlands, Puuc architecture consists of veneer facing stones applied to a concrete core. Two façades were typically built, partitioned by a ridge of stone. The blank lower façade is formed by flat cut stones and punctuated by doorways. The upper partition is richly decorated with repeating geometric patterns and iconographic elements, especially the distinctive curved-nosed Chaac masks. Carved columnettes are also common. \n\nMesoamerican cultures never invented the keystone, and so were unable to build true arches, but instead all of their architecture made use of the \"false\" or Corbelled arch. These arches are built without centering and can be built without support, by corbelling regularly the horizontal courses of the wall masonry. This type of arch supports much less weight than a true arch. \n\nHowever, recent work by engineer James O'Kon suggests the Mesoamerican \"arch\" is technically not a corbelled arch at all but a trapezium truss system. Moreover, unlike a corbelled arch, it does not rely on overlapping layers of blocks but cast-in-place concrete often supported by timber thrust beams. Computer analysis reveals this to be structurally superior to a curved arch \n\nScholars such as David Eccott and Gordon Ekholm argue that true arches were known in pre-Columbian times in Mesoamerica; they point to various examples of true arches at a Maya site in La Muneca, the facade of Temple A at Nukum, two low domes at Tajin in Veracruz, a sweat bath at Chichen Itza, and an arch at Oztuma . In 2010, a robot discovered a long arch-roofed passageway underneath the Pyramid of Quetzalcoatl, which stands in the ancient city of Teotihuacan north of Mexico City, dated to around 200 AD.\n\nA number of important archeological sites representing Mesoamerican Architecture have been categorized as \"world heritage sites\" by the UNESCO.\n\nEl Salvador\nHonduras\nGuatemala\nMexico\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10394189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10394189", "title": "Michael the Syrian", "text": "Michael the Syrian\n\nMichael the Syrian (; died 1199 AD), also known as Michael the Great ( or Michael Syrus or Michael the Elder, to distinguish him from his nephew, was a patriarch of the Syriac Orthodox Church from 1166 to 1199. He is best known today as the author of the largest medieval \"Chronicle\", which he composed in Syriac. Various other materials written in his own hand have survived.\n\nThe life of Michael is recorded by Bar Hebraeus. He was born ca. 1126 in Melitene (today Malatya), the son of the Priest Eliya (Elias), of the Qindasi family. His uncle, the monk Athanasius, became bishop of Anazarbus in Cilicia in 1136.\n\nAt that period Melitene was part of the kingdom of the Turcoman Danishmend dynasty, and, when that realm was divided in two in 1142, it became the capital of one principality. In 1178 it became part of the Sultanate of Rûm. The Jacobite monastery of Mar Bar Sauma was close to the town, and had been the patriarchal seat since the 11th century.\n\nAs a child, Michael entered the service of the monastery, and became archimandrite before the age of thirty. He made various improvements to the abbey fabric, including improving the water supply and the defences against raiders. On 18 October 1166 he was elected Patriarch of the Jacobite church, and consecrated in the presence of twenty-eight bishops.\n\nIn 1168 he made a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, and then stayed for a year at Antioch. Both towns were at the time part of the Latin crusader states, and Michael established excellent relations with the crusader lords, especially with Amaury de Nesle, Latin patriarch of Jerusalem. Returning to the monastery of Mar Bar Sauma in the summer of 1169, he held a synod and attempted to reform the church, then tainted with simony.\n\nThe Byzantine emperor Manual I Comnenos made approaches to him to negotiate a reunion of the churches. But Michael did not trust the Greeks. He refused to go to Constantinople when invited by the emperor, and even refused twice, in 1170 and 1172, to meet his envoy Theorianus, instead sending as his own representative bishop John of Kaishoum and then his disciple Theodore bar Wahbon. In three successive letters to the emperor, he replied with a simple statement of the miaphysite creed of the Jacobites.\n\nAround 1174 Michael had to contend with a revolt by a party of bishops. He himself was twice arrested at the instigation of the dissident bishops, so he says; once by the servants of the prefect of Mardin and the second time by those of the emir of Mosul. Also the monks of Bar Sauma rebelled against him in 1171 and 1176.\n\nBetween 1178 and 1180 he resided again in the crusader states, at Antioch and Jerusalem. He was invited by Pope Alexander III to attend the Third Council of the Lateran, but declined. However he did participate by letter, writing a long treatise on the Albigensians, based on the information he had been given.\n\nIn 1180 his former pupil Theodore Bar Wahbon had himself elected patriarch at Amida under the name of John by certain malcontent bishops, beginning a schism which lasted for thirteen years. Michael took energetic action, got hold of the anti-patriarch and locked him up at Bar Sauma and formally deposed him. Some of monks allowed Ibn Wahbon to escape, who fled to Damascus and tried in vain to appeal to Saladin. He then went to Jerusalem, and, after the fall of the city in 1187, went to Rumkale with the Armenian catholicos Gregory IV, who allowed him to obtain official recognition from Prince Leo II of Armenian Minor. Theodore had many supporters, and the schism did not end until the death of Theodore in the summer of 1193. According to Bar Hebraeus Theodore could write and speak in Syriac, Greek, Armenian and Arabic, and composed a statement of his case against Michael in Arabic.\n\nIn 1182, Michael received the sultan Kilij Arslan II at Melitene, and held cordial talks with him.\n\nHe died at the monastery of Bar Sauma on 7 November 1199 at the age of sixty-three, having been patriarch for thirty-three years. His nephew, Michael the Younger, known as Yeshti' Sephethana [Syriac ܝܸܫܬ݂' ܣܸܦܗܸܬܗܲܢܲ] or \"Big-lips\", became anti-patriarch at Melitene from 1199-1215, in opposition to Athanasius IX and then John XIV.\n\nMichael was a profuse author. He wrote works on the liturgy, on the doctrine of the Jacobite church, and on canon law. Numerous sermons have also survived, mostly unpublished. But he is best known for the World Chronicle that he composed, the longest and richest surviving chronicle in the Syriac language.\n\nThis Chronicle runs from Creation up to Michael's own times. It uses earlier Ecclesiastical Histories now lost; for instance, its coverage of the Late Antique period relies mainly upon Dionysius of Tel Mahre. It includes a version of the Testimonium Flavianum.\n\nThe work is extant in a single manuscript written in 1598 in Syriac in a Serto hand. This was copied from an earlier manuscript, itself copied from Michael's autograph. The manuscript is today held in a locked box in a church in Aleppo and not accessible to scholarship. However the French scholar Jean-Baptiste Chabot arranged for a copy to be made by hand in 1888 and published a photographic reproduction in four volumes (1899–1910), with a French translation. In 2009, the facsimile of Edessan-Aleppo codex was published by Gorgias Press in the first volume (edited by Mor Gregorios Yuhanna Ibrahim) of a series on the Chronicle of Michael the Great.\n\nAn abbreviated Armenian translation also exists, from which Victor Langlois published a French translation in 1868. This alone preserves the preface of the work. A shorter Armenian version also exists which has not been published.\n\nA Garshuni version is also extant in British Library ms. Orient. 4402, and an Arabic version beginning with book 5 exists in a Vatican manuscript.\n\nAs secondary witnesses: Bar Hebraeus, pseudo-Jacob, and Maribas the Chaldean all rely upon Michael's work.\n\nHis work has been used by NASA scientists because of his record of climatic changes, now known to be linked to volcano eruptions. He records that in 536 AD:\nAnd in 626 AD:\nHe is a contemporary source for the Latin crusader states, and records the tolerance and liberalism of the Catholic Franks towards the miaphysites:\nHe also praises the Templars and Hospitallers to his own people:\n\n"}
{"id": "5364231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5364231", "title": "Mohamed Haji Mukhtar", "text": "Mohamed Haji Mukhtar\n\nMohamed Haji Mukhtar (, ) (born 1947) is a Somali scholar and writer currently in the United States.\n\nMukhtar was born in the town of Koorkoor in the Bakool region of southern Somalia. He is the son of Malak Mukhtar Malak Hassan, a highly respected chief of the Digil and Mirifle (Rahanweyn) Somali clans, and belongs to the Leysan subdivision of the latter.\n\nHe is Known as an advocate of the use of Maay (the Somali-dialect of the Rahanweyn), and all other Somali dialects that exist in Somalia.\n\nDr. Mukhtar holds a Ph.D. from Al-Azhar University in Cairo, Egypt.\n\nFrom 1975-1983, he was a professor of History at the Somali National University in Mogadishu. From 1986-1990, he taught at the National University of Malaysia in Malaysia.\n\nDr. Mukhtar is a two-time Fulbright-Hays Scholar, first in 1983-1984 at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, and then between 1984-1985 at the University of South Carolina in Columbia, South Carolina. He also held fellowships from the Istituto Italiano per l'Africa and the Arab League's Education, Culture and Science Organization (ALECSO), in 1980 and 1981–1982, respectively, as well as from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) in 2002.\n\nDr. Mukhtar has long been a producer and correspondent of the BBC African Service, and is presently the Chairperson of the Somalia Committee for Peace and Reconciliation (Ergada) as well as the Inter-Riverine Studies Association (ISA).\n\nHe is currently a professor of African & Middle Eastern history at Savannah State University in Savannah, Georgia.\n\nDr. Mukhtar has written numerous scholarly works on the history and sociology of Somalia and Islam.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55580115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55580115", "title": "Museum of the history of Borovichi city and Borovichi land", "text": "Museum of the history of Borovichi city and Borovichi land\n\nThe Museum of the history of Borovichi city and Borovichi land is one of the oldest museums in the Novgorod region of Russia. In 2016, it hosted more than 22,000 visitors. The museum was founded in May 1918 by the County Board of Education. It started as a collection of Zhukovskiy and Gogol. From 1926 to 1927, the museum was closed. In 1928 the museum reopened thanks to S.N. Porshnyakov(1889-1992) who became the first director. \n\nThe exhibition space was created in 2009, comprising five halls and covering the period from the neolithic age to The Revolution in 1917. As of January 1, 2017, 27,411 storage units were available.\n\nThe museum is located in the historical part of town, in the house of an ex-mayor merchant of the 1st guild Matvey Shalgin. The building was built at the end of the 19th century, in the classical style.\n"}
{"id": "25051739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25051739", "title": "National personal autonomy", "text": "National personal autonomy\n\nThe Austromarxist principle of national personal autonomy (\"personal principle\"), developed by Otto Bauer in his 1907 book \"Die Nationalitätenfrage und die Sozialdemokratie\" (The Nationalities Question and Social Democracy) was seen by him a way of gathering the geographically divided members of the same nation to \"organize nations not in territorial bodies but in simple association of persons\", thus radically disjoining the nation from the territory and making of the nation a non-territorial association. The other ideological founders of the concept were another Austromarxist, Karl Renner, in his 1899 essay \"Staat und Nation\" (State and Nation), and the Jewish Labour Bundist Vladimir Medem, in his 1904 essay \"Di sotsial-demokratie un di natsionale frage\" (Social Democracy and the National Question).\n\nIn his 1904 text, Medem exposed his version of the concept:\n\n\"Let us consider the case of a country composed of several national groups, e.g. Poles, Lithuanians and Jews. Each national group would create a separate movement. All citizens belonging to a given national group would join a special organisation that would hold cultural assemblies in each region and a general cultural assembly for the whole country. The assemblies would be given financial powers of their own: either each national group would be entitled to raise taxes on its members, or the state would allocate a proportion of its overall budget to each of them. Every citizen of the state would belong to one of the national groups, but the question of which national movement to join would be a matter of personal choice and no authority would have any control over his decision. The national movements would be subject to the general legislation of the state, but in their own areas of responsibility they would be autonomous and none of them would have the right to interfere in the affairs of the others\".\nThis principle was later adopted by various parties, among them the Jewish Socialist Workers Party from its foundation in 1906, the Jewish Labour Bund at its August 1912 Conference (when the motion \"On National Cultural Autonomy\" became part of the Bund's program), the Armenian social democrats, the Russian Constitutional Democratic Party (\"Kadets\") at its June 1917's Ninth Congress, the first Ottoman then Greek Socialist Workers' Federation of Thessaloniki, the left-wing Zionists (Hashomer Hatzair) in favour of a binational solution in Palestine, the Jewish Folkspartei (inspired by Simon Dubnov, who had developed a concept of Jewish autonomy close to Bauer's), and the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania (DAHR) after 1989.\n\nThe whole concept was strongly opposed by the Bolsheviks. Stalin's pamphlet \"Marxism and the National Question\" (1913) was their ideological reference on the matter, along with Lenin's \"Critical Remarks on the National Question\" (December 1913), in particular in the chapter \"Cultural-National Autonomy\". (Stalin was later People's Commissar of Nationalities from 1917 - 1923.) Lenin's and Stalin's critics of the national personal autonomy concept were later joined by the Catalan Andreu Nin in his article \"The Austrian School, National Emancipation Movements\" (1935).\n\nIt was adopted as an official policy in the short-lived Ukrainian People's Republic (1917–1920) and in the interwar Estonian Republic (1925 Law on Personal Autonomy), and it was included in the Declaration Concerning the Protection of Minorities in Lithuania by the League of Nations in 1925.\n\nThe autonomous representative structure of the Palestinian Jews between 1920 and 1949, the Asefat ha-Nivharim, can also be considered as an implementation of the national personal autonomy principle.\n\nSince the fall of the Soviet Union and its satellites regimes, the national personal autonomy is the principle on which legislation applying to ethnic minorities has been enacted such as Estonia's (1993 National Minorities Cultural Autonomy Act), Hungary's Act LXXVII of 1993 on the Rights of National and Ethnic Minorities, Latvia's 1991 Law on Unrestricted Development and Right to Cultural Autonomy of Latvia's Nationalities and Ethnic Groups, Lithuania's 1989 Law on Ethnic Minorities, Russia's 1996 Law on National-Cultural Autonomies, and Ukraine's 1992 Law on National Minorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "1957819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1957819", "title": "Nićifor Dučić", "text": "Nićifor Dučić\n\nArchimandrite Nićifor Dučić (; 1832–1900), was a Herzegovinian Serb theologian, historian, philologist and writer, educated in Belgrade and Paris. He was an Orthodox monk who refused the title of a bishop, devoted lover of enlightenment and staunch patriot.\n\nIn 1848 in Žitomislić Monastery was founded the first school for education of Serbian children and school for education of Orthodox priests, which were established by monks of Žitomislić – Nićifor Dučić and Sirafin Perović. Archimandrite of Herzegovina Nićifor Dučić founded the Orthodox Seminarium in Cetinje in 1863. In 1880 Dučić was appointed as Museum Keeper of Serbian National Museum in Belgrade, and since 1883 as a Director of National Library of Serbia.\n\nDučić's monographs about monasteries (Tvrdoš, Žitomislić, Morača, Ostrog) have not lost the cultural-historical value since science must further take some studies into consideration: \"Christmas in Montenegro\" (1867); \"Boka and Zeta\" (1875); \"Slav Manuscripts in the National Library in Paris\" (1889).\n\nBetween 1891-99 Dučić himself published his collected works and managed to the ninth book. The study \"The Old Times of Hilandar and the Monograph of Hilandar\" was published in 1884 and then it was included into the fourth book of collected works in 1895.\n\nNićifor Dučić was born in the village of Lug, near Trebinje in southeastern Bosnia and Herzegovina, in 1832. He received an excellent education in Serbia, Serbian Vojvodina, and later in Paris. During the 1848 Revolution he joined the Austrians as a young volunteer, and after he returned to his native Herzegovina where at the Duži Monastery he took holy orders under the guidance of his uncle, the abbot (archimandrite). In 1858 he founded with Serafim Perović a school in Duži, and taught religion and history in Mostar. From late 1858 until 1860he oversaw the Žitomislić Monastery, situated near the River Neretva. There he wrote several series of monographs, literary histories, archaeological questions, including the history of Metox Monastery Duži and Tvrdoš, Žitomislić Monastery, Hilandar Monastery, and about the Serbian community and the Serbian Orthodox Church of Saint Spiridon in downtown Trieste. Dučić himself served in his youth in the Herzegovinian Uprising of 1852-1862, led by Luka Vukalović. Dučić's strength, daring and activity fitted him to shine in operations largely composed of night marches, surprises, escalades, and hand-to-hand combat. The main scene of his achievement was in Bosnia and Herzegovina and when those hostilities died down, and there was no amnesty forthcoming from the Ottoman Porte and Constantinople as promised, Dučić left for Montenegro. He had a relation in Cetinje where he settled in 1864. There he was elevated to the rank of archimandrite, and he also helped Serafim Perović, his old friend from Duži, start a school of higher learning. When Perović opened the first seminary at Cetinje, Dučić was named rector. He wrote and published the rules of the school. Conditions for the pupils were favourable, with particular considerations for the poorest among them. He also entered into Montenegrin service, and was immediately nominated to head a diplomatic mission as an intermediary between Cetinje and Belgrade.\n\nReturning with Serb General Milojko Lešjanin, Nićifor Dučić, now Nicholas I of Montenegro's envoy, exchanged copies of a treaty with Mihailo Obrenović III, Prince of Serbia and Prime Minister Ilija Garašanin signed October 14, 1867. Its stated purpose was to \"prepare an insurrection in Turkey and unite the entire Serbian people in a single state.\" His pamphlets and revolutionary doctrines (that came to Austrian and Turkish attention) compelled him to leave Montenegro for Italy.\nTravelling about the Serbian communities in diaspora, Dučić had an opportunity to become personally acquainted with the strong patriotic feelings of these scattered Serbs, which would eventually give his observations all the more weight. In the meantime, Garašanin was preparing a general rising of all Serb lands against Turkish rule, and in 1868 Dučić was back in Belgrade. But the execution of Garašanin's plans was frustrated by the assassination of Prince Mihailo (Obrenović) on the 10th of June 1868 (or the 28th of May 1868 O.S.). Dučić was long a warm advocate of the political union of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbian Vojvodina, Kosovo Metohija, and Serbia.\nWith the accession of Prince Milan I of Serbia and the new prime minister, Jovan Ristić, who knew Dučić's value, employed him and trusted him; and he took part in secret missions for them, negotiating with the Turks. During September 1873, as Ristić's envoy, Dučić held consultations with two Croatian politicians Matija Mrazović and Franjo Rački about the unification of all Serbian people with Serbia.\nNicifor Dučić and count Petar Vukotić had become enthusiastic partisans of friendship and alliance with Serbia and even favoured their complete unification. They and Prince Nicholas now believed Montenegro's policy must be subject to Serbia's and that Serbdom's salvation lay in complete unification with the rest of Serb lands. Furthermore, Filip Hristić arrived in Cetinje from Belgrade to assure Prince Nicholas that Serbia will back Montenegro in case of war with Turkey. Soon the war was declared in 1876 by Serbia in alliance with Montenegro in order to profit by the new insurrection in the Herzegovina which had begun in the summer of 1875 at Nevesinje. Dučić's love of adventure led him, during the First Serbo-Turkish War (1876–1878), to take the command of a brigade and enter into the fray. In this capacity he performed splendid service at Aleksinac, where he was wounded, by delaying Turkish advance on Belgrade before a conclusion of peace could be drawn up. The final result of the war which intensified the Balkan crisis culminated in the Russo-Turkish War (1877-1878). By the settlement of the conflict Serbia and Montenegro acquired their respective and total independence from the Ottoman Empire. But Bosnia-Herzegovina was not as fortunate. It was sold to the Habsburgs by the Turks, leaving a powder keg open for ignition. His achievements, however, as archimandrite, member of parliament, historiographer, academic, soldier, negotiator, polemic and translator, showed him to be also a daring, resourceful and skilful commander, worthy to be ranked among the illustrious names of Serbian heroes. With his quill and his cross and his sword he pleaded for the welfare and development of the Serbian nation, leaving us his voluminous monographs, articles, pamphlets and books. He died at Belgrade in 1900.\n\nThough one of the most remarkable of Serbian writers, historians and diplomatists, Nićifor Dučić laboured for many years in comparative obscurity. Dučić began to write early, and had, according to his own account, composed several articles when he was sixteen. As a contributor to newspapers and magazines, he came under the notice of Ilarion Ruvarac, who encouraged him to continue to produce well-researched historical monographs for learned societies and their periodicals and journals. He wrote a treatise about Serbs living in the port city of Trieste, entitled \"The Serbian Parish in Trieste\".\n\nNjegoš's poetic works remained practically unrecognized and unnoticed by our littérateurs for more than two decades, until Nićifor Dučić wrote: \"Primjetbe na \"Komentar Gorskog vijenca\"\" (Belgrade, Državna Štamparija, 1870).\n\nDučić once complained: \"The Greek metropolitans ordain as clergy even such people as can hardly read the church books.\" (\"Istorija srpske pravoslavne crkve od prvijeh desetina VII viejeka to nasih dana,\" Beograd, 1892).\n\nIn 1869 Dučić became a member of the a Serbian Learned Society, and for a time held the post of director (librarian) of the Serbian National Library, from 1880 to 1886.\n\n"}
{"id": "42711255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42711255", "title": "Peter K. Machamer", "text": "Peter K. Machamer\n\nPeter K. Machamer (born October 20, 1942) is an American philosopher and historian of science. Machamer was Professor of History and Philosophy of Science at the University of Pittsburgh. His work has been influential in philosophy of science in developing an account of mechanistic explanation which rejects standard deductive models of explanation, such as the deductive-nomological model by understanding scientific practice as the search for mechanisms. His research has also focused on 17th-century history of philosophy and science, on Galileo Galilei and René Descartes in particular, and on values and science. He was also a wine columnist for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette for fifteen years, and he has reflected on wine and beer in philosophical writing. Machamer is also the \"Philosopher in Residence\" for the Pittsburgh dance company Attack Theater.\n\nMachamer earned his BA from Columbia University in 1964, his BA (1966) and MA (1971) from Trinity College, Cambridge University, and his PhD in philosophy from the University of Chicago in 1972. His dissertation, \"Points about Observation in Science\", was supervised by Manley Thompson and Dudley Shapere. Machamer taught in the Department of Philosophy at Ohio State University from 1969 to 1976, receiving tenure, and then moved to the Department of History & Philosophy of Science at the University of Pittsburgh as associate professor in 1976, becoming professor in 1978. At the University of Pittsburgh, Machamer has served as chair (1978–1993) of History & Philosophy of Science, associate director of the Center for the Philosophy of Science (1999–present), and as a member of the Center for Neural Basis of Cognition (CNBC). He has also been affiliated with the Cultural Studies Program at the University of Pittsburgh since its inception. He has been a Fulbright fellow at the University of Athens and the National Technical University of Athens (1996) and visiting professor at Universita' degli Studi di Udine (1994), the National Technical University of Athens (1998), Bogazici University (1998), and the University of Konstanz (2007). He has also received grants from the NEH, the NSF, the Heinz Foundation, the Mellon Foundation, and the U.S. Department of Education.\n\nMachamer's work has been influential in developing an account of scientific explanation understood as the search for and filling in of mechanisms. His co-authored 2000 article (with Lindley Darden and Carl Craver) “Thinking about Mechanisms”, published in \"Philosophy of Science\", has been cited over 1,000 times. His current work explores further consequences of this view in \"Activities and Causation: The Metaphysics and Epistemology of Mechanisms,\" \"International Studies in the Philosophy of Science\" 187.1 (2004): 27–39, and in work in progress \"Explaining Mechanisms\" and \"Models as Models of Mechanisms.\"\n\nMachamer's research in history of philosophy and history and philosophy of science has focused on Descartes and Galileo, but he has also worked on Hobbes and Aristotle. Much of his focus has been upon using natural philosophy by these figures as a way of understanding their metaphysics and epistemology.\n\n\"Descartes' Changing Mind\" (Princeton University Press, 2009), with J.E. McGuire.\n\n\"Perception, Realism, and Reference\" (Cambridge University Press, 2012), edited with A. Raftopoulos.\n\n\"Blackwell Guide to Philosophy of Science\" (Blackwell, 2002), edited with Michael Silberstein.\n\n\"Theory and Method in the Neurosciences\" (University of Pittsburgh Press, 2001), edited with P. McLaughlin and R. Grush.\n\n\"Scientific Controversies\" (Oxford, 2000), edited with A. Baltas and M. Pera.\n\n\"Cambridge Companion to Galileo\" (Cambridge University Press, 1998), editor.\n\n\"Mindscapes: Philosophy, Science and the Mind\" (UVK.Universitatsverlag Konstanz/University of Pittsburgh Press, 1997), edited with Martin Carrier.\n\n\"Perception: Historical and Philosophical Studies\" (Ohio State University Press, 1978), edited with Robert Turnbull.\n\n\"Motion and Time, Space, and Matter\" (Ohio State University Press, 1976), edited with Robert Turnbull.\n\n\"Thinking About Mechanisms,\" \"Philosophy of Science\" 67 (2000): 1-25, with Lindley Darden and Carl Craver. The most cited article in \"Philosophy of Science\" from 2011 to 2014.\n\nEntry on Galileo Galilei, \"The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\".\n\n\"Good Beer, or How Properly Dispute Taste\" in Steven Hales, ed., \"Beer and Philosophy\" (Blackwell, 2007), 52–63.\n"}
{"id": "53820980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53820980", "title": "Robin Kay", "text": "Robin Kay\n\nRobin Langford Kay (23 June 1919 – 7 April 2017) was a New Zealand artist and historian.\n\nBorn in 1919 in Waipawa, Kay spent in early years in Christchurch in the care of his aunt due to his mother's poor health. In 1928, the family moved to Napier. He was educated at Gisborne Boys High School and spent a year at Christ's College in Christchurch. He also studied art part-time at Canterbury University College of Art. He then moved to the Manawatu taking up employment as a cadet journalist in Palmerston North. \n\nDuring World War II Kay served as a war artist with the 2nd New Zealand Expeditionary Force in the Middle East and Italy, was commissioned as a temporary second lieutenant in 1944, and later joined the war history staff under Major General Sir Howard Kippenberger. He graduated from Victoria University College with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1949. As well as contributing to the \"Official History of New Zealand in the Second World War 1939–45\"—writing the history of 27 (Machine Gun) Battalion and \"Italy Volume II: From Cassino to Trieste\"—Kay wrote extensively on New Zealand military history and external relations. He also co-authored, with Tony Eden, a history of the New Zealand Academy of Fine Arts (NZAFA) in 1983. \n\nKay became an artist member of the NZAFA in 1938, going on to exhibit over 450 works. He served on the Academy Council from 1960 to 1983, and in 1975 he was made a life member of the NZAFA. In 2007, Kay received the Governor General's Award from the NZAFA and became a Fellow of the New Zealand Academy of Fine Arts. Kay was a member of Watercolour New Zealand since it was founded in 1975.\n\nBetween 1962 and 1970, he won 1st prize, 2nd prize and six merit awards for watercolour in the National Bank Art Awards. \n\nHis paintings have been purchased by the National Art Gallery, Archives New Zealand, the Turnbull Library, US President Lyndon B. Johnson, Prime Minister Keith Holyoake and former Governor-Generals.\n\nIn the 2008 New Year Honours, Kay was appointed a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to art and military history.\n\nKay died on 7 April 2017.\n\nPaintings by Kay are held in public collections, including at Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa, the Alexander Turnbull Library, and the National Collection of War Art at Archives New Zealand.\n"}
{"id": "35321100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35321100", "title": "Ronald J. Mellor", "text": "Ronald J. Mellor\n\nRonald J. Mellor (born September 30, 1940) is a distinguished professor of history at the University of California, Los Angeles. His area of research has been ancient religion and Roman historiography, where he has published a number of books.\n\nMellor attended Regis High School in New York City. He received his Ph.D. in Classics from Princeton University in 1968. His previous teaching posts include Stanford University. He has been a Visiting Fellow/Scholar at University College, London, the Humanities Research Centre of the Australian National University, the American Academy in Rome, and the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1347630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1347630", "title": "Royal Ballet School", "text": "Royal Ballet School\n\nThe Royal Ballet School is one of the world's greatest centres of classical ballet training. Founded by the Anglo-Irish ballerina and choreographer Ninette de Valois, the school's aim is to train and educate outstanding classical ballet dancers for the Royal Ballet (based at the Royal Opera House in London) and Birmingham Royal Ballet.\n\nAdmission to the School is based purely on talent and potential, regardless of academic ability or personal circumstances, and 90% of current students rely on financial support to attend the school. The school is based over two sites, White Lodge, Richmond Park (for students aged 11–16) and Covent Garden (for students from 16–19 years old) based in purpose-built studios on Floral Street, adjacent to the Royal Opera House.\n\nThe Royal Ballet School has, since 1926, produced dancers and choreographers of international renown, including Dame Margot Fonteyn, Dame Beryl Grey, Sir Kenneth MacMillan, Dame Darcey Bussell, Alessandra Ferri and Viviana Durante, as well as current Director of The Royal Ballet Kevin O'Hare. Graduates of the school have also achieved employment in musical theatre, contemporary and jazz dance, television and film.\n\nIn 1926, the Irish-born dancer Ninette de Valois founded the \"Academy of Choreographic Art\", a dance school for girls and the predecessor of today's Royal Ballet School. Her intention was to form a repertory ballet company and school, leading her to collaborate with the Inglisch theatrical producer and theatre owner Lilian Baylis.\n\nBaylis owned the Old Vic theatre and acquired Sadler's Wells theatre in 1925. In 1928, she engaged de Valois to stage dance performances at both theatres and she re-opened Sadler's Wells theatre in 1931, with de Valois' school moving into studios on the site as the Sadler's Wells Ballet School, teaching both boys and girls. At the same time, the Vic-Wells Ballet Company was formed using students of the school and other notable dancers of the era. Both the school and the ballet company developed quickly and after ballet performances ceased at the Old Vic, the ballet company was renamed the Sadler's Wells Ballet.\n\nIn 1946, the company moved to become the resident ballet company at the newly re-opened Royal Opera House in Covent Garden and as a result, in 1947 the school moved from Sadler's Wells to premises in Barons Court, with academic education being introduced for younger students.\n\nFollowing rapid expansion, in 1955 the school secured the premises at White Lodge in Richmond Park, London. This was established at the time as the Royal Ballet 'Lower School', a residential boarding school for children aged 11–16, combining general education and vocational ballet training. The Royal Ballet School 'Upper School' was established at the school's existing premises in Barons Court with students studying ballet on a full-time basis between the ages of 16–19.\n\nIn October 1956, a Royal Charter was granted officially linking the ballet company and school and they became The Royal Ballet School and Royal Ballet Company. A second smaller company still performed at Sadler's Wells and toured around the UK and this became the Sadler's Wells Royal Ballet. de Valois retired as Director in 1970.\n\nIn 1990, the Sadler's Wells company moved to become the resident ballet company at the Birmingham Hippodrome, in Birmingham, where it was renamed Birmingham Royal Ballet, forming a new association with the Elmhurst School for Dance in 2002.\n\nIn January 2003, The Royal Ballet School's older students (aged 16–19) moved to a newly constructed studio complex in Floral Street, adjacent to the Royal Opera House in Covent Garden, where The Royal Ballet remains the resident ballet company. A bridge was constructed between the school and the Opera House, linking the school with the theatre and The Royal Ballet Company's own studios. The designer of the bridge received an architectural award and it is known as the \"Bridge of Aspiration\".\n\nThe Royal Ballet School's younger students moved to White Lodge, Richmond Park in Richmond, London in 1955 when the school was split for the first time. The Georgian building is a former royal residence and hunting lodge built during the reign of King George II. It is the School's permanent premises and there has been extensive redevelopment of the site to provide dance and academic facilities and accommodation for students.\n\nChildren attend the school between the ages of 11-16 and entry to the school is by audition only. The school receives over twenty thousand applications every year and holds auditions in major UK cities. Having an international reputation, the school also receives applications from other countries. As a boarding school, the majority of students live on site, although there are a small number of day-students.\n\nIn dance, students study classical ballet, character dance, contemporary, gymnastics, Irish, Morris and Scottish dancing. Later in their training, students study ballet repertoire, solos and pas de deux and boys undertake upper body conditioning. The school offers academic study at the level of a typical secondary school, both at Key Stage 3 and Key Stage 4, with all students sitting GCSE examinations.\n\nThe Royal Ballet School's Covent Garden base was established in 1955, when the younger students were moved to White Lodge. The school remained at existing studios in Barons Court, London, with academic studies introduced for the first time. Later in 2003, the school relocated to new premises, and the former Baron's Court site now houses the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art.\n\nThe school relocated to new, purpose-built premises in Covent Garden in January 2003. The complex is a four-storey building with six dance studios, including a studio theatre with retractable raked seating for an audience of 200. The building also houses changing rooms and showers for male and female students, a gym and fitness room, a pilates studio, physiotherapy suite and students common room. Facilities for academic education include four classrooms, a library with computer equipment, an art studio and audiovisual suite. All the dance studios are linked to the audiovisual suite so that classes and rehearsals can be filmed as a training tool, enabling the dancers to analyse themselves.\n\nAlongside a timetable of intensive ballet training, students also study pas de deux, solos, repertoire, character, contemporary dance, stagecraft, make-up, and body conditioning. 3rd year students get many opportunities throughout the year to train with The Royal Ballet and Birmingham Royal Ballet.\n\nEach year The Royal Ballet School presents its Summer Performances, featuring students from all age groups in a wide variety of classical and contemporary works. The highlight of the school's dance year is the annual matinée at the Royal Opera House, which showcases graduate students before they embark on their professional careers as well as featuring students from all years of the school. The programme includes new works and heritage pieces from the Royal Ballet repertory and culminates in a grand défilé, in which every student of the school appears on stage in a choreographed curtain call.\n\nThe Royal Ballet School is unique in having trained four of only a small number of dancers in history to have been recognised as Prima Ballerina Assoluta, the ultimate honorary title for a ballerina. Exclusively trained at The Royal Ballet School and dancing her entire professional career with The Royal Ballet, Margot Fonteyn was appointed Prima Ballerina Assoluta of the company by Queen Elizabeth II in 1979. Having trained at The Royal Ballet School from 1959 to 1966, Eva Evdokimova would go on to become an international guest ballerina, being recognised as a Prima Ballerina Assoluta following her performances with the Kirov Ballet in the late 1970s. The title was later recognised officially by the German Senate. Phyllis Spira began training at the Royal Ballet School in 1959, joining the Royal Ballet touring company in 1960. Choosing to shun an international ballet career, she returned to her native South Africa, where she danced the majority of her career with CAPAB ballet, today's Cape Town City Ballet. She was appointed Prima Ballerina Assoluta by the State President of South Africa in 1984. Most recently, Royal Ballet School graduate Alessandra Ferri was appointed Prima Ballerina Assoluta of La Scala Theatre Ballet in 1992. Another British ballerina, Alicia Markova, was also tutored by Royal Ballet School founder Ninette de Valois, and would go on to be a leading ballerina with the Ballets Russes, the first Prima Ballerina of The Royal Ballet, a founder ballerina with American Ballet Theatre, and co-founder of English National Ballet who now recognise her as the company's Prima Ballerina Assoluta. Although not trained at The Royal Ballet School, this direct connection with school founder Ninette de Valois brings the total up to five.\n"}
{"id": "52052111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52052111", "title": "Sami Blood", "text": "Sami Blood\n\nSami Blood () is a 2016 Swedish coming-of-age drama film written and directed by Amanda Kernell, as her feature film debut. The first 10 minutes of the film (and part of the end) comes directly from the short film \"Stoerre Vaerie\" (2015, dir. Amanda Kernell). \"Stoerre Vaerie\" is Kernell's first film with Sami themes and it was nominated for the Short Film Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival, Park City, Utah, USA.\n\nThe film is set in Sweden in the 1930s and concerns a 14-year-old girl who experiences prejudice at a nomad school for Sami children, and decides to escape her town and disavow her Sami heritage. Parts of the story are inspired by Kernell's own grandmother.\n\nThe film premiered at the 73rd edition of the Venice Film Festival in the Venice Days section, in which it was awarded the Europa Cinemas Label Award and the Fedeora Award for Best Debut Director. It won the 2017 Lux Prize and was nominated for the 2017 Nordic Council Film Prize.\n\nIn the present day, 78-year-old Elle-Marja (who calls herself Christina, these days) returns with her son, Olle, and granddaughter Sanna, to Lapland, and her childhood society, to attend her younger sister's funeral. Elle-Marja doesn't want to be there. She does not like the Sami people, calls them thieves and liars, and even though her first language is Southern Sami, refuses to speak it and pretends to not understand it. She even refuses to spend the night at her late sister's family home and would rather check into a hotel. (This part of \"Sami Blood\" is taken directly from \"Stoerre Vaerie.\")\n\nIn the 1930s, 14-year-old Elle-Marja is sent with her younger sister Njenna to the nomad school. It is a boarding school for Sami children where a blonde teacher from Småland teaches them Swedish, and to know their place. Speaking Sami, even just among themselves outside of the classroom, results in beatings. Her feeling of alienation is only intensified when scientists from \"the State Institute for Racial Biology\" in Uppsala came to the school to measure and photograph the class naked in the presence of each other, teachers and neighbourhood boys.\n\nAfter threatening a group of boys with her father's old knife because they called her racist names and slurs, they nick the edge of her ear like the Sami people do with reindeer. She changes out of her gaeptie (also called gapta, gåptoe depending on the Southern Sámi dialect) and takes one of her teacher's dresses from a clothes line.\n\nA group of young soldiers pass her on their way to a dance and asks her to come along—it is the first time anyone who is not Sami has treated her like a human being. Elle-Marja sneaks off to the dance, and for a couple of hours she gets to experience how it feels to have the respect others and be treated with decency by them without question. That is when she decides that she will leave Lapland, go to Uppsala, and study at the university.\n\nSchool staff remove her from the dance and she is given a spanking with a switch. The school refuse her request to advance her studies in Uppsala, because the curriculum for the Sami is different from that in other Swedish schools and they feel that the Sami could not cope with urban society. She runs away to town, steals some clothes and burns her gaeptie, and invites herself to stay with Niklas, whom she met at the dance. His parents ask her to leave and he will not lend her the money she needs for her school fees, forcing her to go home. Eventually, her mother gives her the money to continue her schooling.\n\nAt the end of the film, she apologises to her dead sister for leaving her culture and people.\n\n\nEvolving out of a short made by Kernell that was screened at the 2015 Sundance Film Festival, the film was shot partly in Tärnaby-Hemavan, in northern Sweden, and partly in Uppsala and Stockholm.\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 96%, based on 23 reviews with an average rating of 7.2/10.\n\n\"Sami Blood\" won the top prize at the 2017 Göteborg Film Festival, the Dragon Award Best Nordic Film. A prize of one million Swedish kronor (approximately US$114,000), it is one of the world's largest film prizes. In addition, Sophia Olsson won the Sven Nykvist Cinematography Award for the film.\n\nAt the 57th Thessaloniki International Film Festival, the film won the Human Values Award.\n\nAt the Tokyo International Film Festival, \"Sami Blood\" won second prize in the juried competition, and Lene Cecilia Sparrok won the best actress award. Sparrok (a teenage reindeer herder in real life) gave her acceptance speech in Sami.\n\nAt the Venice Film Festival, the film played in the Venice Days section and won the Fedeora Award for Best Young Director and the Europa Cinemas Label (for best European film in Venice Days).\n\nAt the Santa Barbara International Film Festival, the film won the Valhalla Award for Best Nordic Film. On 14 November 2017, it won the Lux Prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "46706985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46706985", "title": "Shinji Kawasaki", "text": "Shinji Kawasaki\n"}
{"id": "36364182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36364182", "title": "Stour Music Festival", "text": "Stour Music Festival\n\nThe Stour Music Festival is a festival of early music held in the Stour valley, Kent, England.\nIt was founded by the countertenor Alfred Deller in 1962.\nThe principal venue is a medieval church, All Saints' Church, Boughton Aluph.\n\nAfter the death of Alfred Deller in 1979, his son Mark Deller continued the festival. In 2012 it celebrated its fiftieth birthday and the centenary of its founder.\n\n"}
{"id": "31096871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31096871", "title": "Tan Tai Yong", "text": "Tan Tai Yong\n\nTan Tai Yong ()) is a Professor of Humanities (History) at Yale-NUS College, Professor of South Asian history at the National University of Singapore (NUS), and current President at Yale-NUS College. He is also Director of the Institute of South Asian Studies, an autonomous university-level research institute in NUS. He previously served as Executive Vice-President (Academic Affairs) of Yale-NUS, Vice Provost (Student Life) at NUS, and Dean of Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, NUS. Tan was also a former Nominated Member of Parliament.\n\nProfessor Tan obtained his first two degrees - BA (Hons), 1986, and MA, 1989 - from the National University of Singapore. He then went off to Cambridge University, where he earned his doctorate in South Asian history in 1992, under the supervision of Anthony Low. He has been a faculty member of the Department of History at NUS since 1992 and served the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences as Sub-Dean (1994-1999), Head of the History Department (2000-2003), Vice-Dean (2001-2003) and Dean (2004-2009).\n\nProfessor Tan's research interests are in the areas of Sikh diaspora, civil-military relations, social and political history of colonial Punjab, and the partition of South Asia. Lately, he has shifted his attention to Southeast Asia, and has been exploring issues of networks formation and the place of maritime cities in the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9474608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9474608", "title": "United We Stand: What More Can I Give", "text": "United We Stand: What More Can I Give\n\nUnited We Stand: What More Can I Give was a benefit concert led by Michael Jackson held on October 21, 2001 at RFK Stadium in Washington, D.C. The concert was the third major concert held in tribute to the victims of the September 11 attacks. The other two were held in New York City.\n\nAfter he completed his with his brothers at Madison Square Garden, Jackson was originally supposed to attend a meeting at the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001, but overslept and did not attend. He organized the benefit concert as a response.\n\nThe concert was a half-day-long spectacle beginning in the early afternoon and lasting well into the night. Performers ranged from music icons including Mariah Carey, James Brown, Al Green, Mary J. Blige, Carole King, Rod Stewart, Bette Midler, America, and Huey Lewis to starting stars of that time including Jennifer Lopez, Destiny's Child, P. Diddy, the Goo Goo Dolls, Train, Backstreet Boys, Britney Spears, Usher, Pink, and NSYNC. Each performer did a brief set usually amounting to about five songs apiece.\n\nIn order, the performances were: Backstreet Boys, Krystal Harris, Huey Lewis and the News, James Brown, Jennifer Lopez, Billy Gilman, O-Town, Usher, Christina Milian, Carole King, Al Green, Christina Aguilera, Pink, Bette Midler, CeCe Peniston, Aerosmith, America, P. Diddy (with Faith Evans singing backup in the choir), NSYNC, Janet Jackson, Destiny's Child, Rod Stewart, Goo Goo Dolls, Train, Britney Spears, Mariah Carey, Mary J. Blige and Michael Jackson, who performed \"Man in the Mirror\". Then everyone joined together, including Toni Braxton, MC Hammer and Mýa, for closing the show by performing \"What More Can I Give\".\n\nNotable appearances were given by Aerosmith, who performed at the festival as well as a scheduled concert in Indianapolis on the same night, while both Destiny's Child and the Goo Goo Dolls had performed the previous night at The Concert for New York City.\n\nThe event was plagued with problems, such as guests that did not show up (including Mick Jagger, Kiss, Ricky Martin, Aaron Carter and MC Hammer), faulty sound equipment, and concessionaires running out of food and beverages.\n\nThe event was televised, in an edited format, on ABC several days after the concert. During the telecast, there was no mention of Jackson's name and he was always filmed with the rest of the singers in the background; this was because Jackson signed a contract with CBS (the former owner of his record label) over the 30th Anniversary Special to not appear under his name in any other program; the airing of \"Man in the Mirror\" at an awards ceremony was also canceled.\n\nJohn Stamos hosted the event, and appearances were also made by celebrities including Kevin Spacey along with political figures such as the mayor of Washington, D.C..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40536216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40536216", "title": "Utilitarian genocide", "text": "Utilitarian genocide\n\nUtilitarian genocide is one of five forms of genocide categorized and defined in 1975 by genocide scholar Vahakn Dadrian.\nUtilitarian genocide is distinctly different from ideologically-motivated genocides like the Holocaust and the Cambodian genocide. This form of genocide has as its aim some form of material gain, such as the seizure of territory in order to gain control of economic resources for commercial exploitation. Two given examples of this form are the genocide of indigenous peoples in Brazil and the genocide of indigenous peoples in Paraguay.\n\nThis form of genocide was highly prominent during the European colonial expansions into the Americas, Oceania, and Africa. The colonial expansion into the Americas was markedly different in its approaches to the accumulation of wealth. The French colonization of the Americas through exploitation and the fur trade had a minor impact on the indigenous peoples. The Spanish colonization of the Americas however was devastating to the indigenous population, as was the British colonization of the Americas. Dadrian has also given as further examples of utilitarian genocide the murders of Moors and Jews during the Spanish Inquisition and the killing of Cherokee Indians during the colonial expansion of the United States.\n\nThis type of genocide has continued into the twentieth century, with the ongoing genocide of indigenous tribes in the rain forests of South America primarily due to progress and the development of resources within their territories; these regions are exploited for economic gain the indigenous peoples are considered a \"hindrance\" and are forcibly relocated or killed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19989121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19989121", "title": "Vincent Orange (historian)", "text": "Vincent Orange (historian)\n\nGeorge Vincent Orange (24 September 1935 — 26 November 2012) was a British-born New Zealand historian, best known for his military biographies of RAF commanders John Slessor, Keith Park, Arthur Coningham, and Arthur Tedder. These received positive reviews, with British historian Sebastian Ritchie, for example, describing the Tedder biography as a \"very important\" book with an \"eminently balanced narrative\".\n\nAmong Orange's many peer reviewed articles is:\"Cutting through the Political Jungle: Eisenhower and Tedder as Allies and Friends, 1942-1945.\" \"Air Power Review\" Vol. 3 No. 4 (Winter 2000), pp. 75–86.\n\nAlong with numerous articles and conference papers, Orange wrote 11 books, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7620193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7620193", "title": "W. C. Firebaugh", "text": "W. C. Firebaugh\n\nW. C. Firebaugh was the author of two works on the history of inns and taverns, and also of a fine English translation of Petronius's \"Satyricon\", the fragmentary realistic novel of low life under the Roman Empire.\n\nThe translation was published in 1922 in New York, in a very expensive ($30) limited edition, by Horace Liveright, founder of the Modern Library. Like earlier English translations, but more completely, Firebaugh's \"Satyricon\" includes the spurious supplements devised by various early scholars and forgers in an attempt to round out the fragmentary story. Firebaugh was however careful to distinguish all these supplements from the real translated text. His is still the only English translation of the supplement by José Marchena, which, because of its obscenity, had previously been printed only in the original Latin.\n\nThe 1923 publication includes a sequence of 100 etchings by the Australian artist Norman Lindsay, originally used in the even rarer 1910 \"Satyricon\" edited by Stephen Gaselee.\n\nThe original text, the etchings, and the Marchena supplement were all arguably pornographic by the strict standards of English-language publishing in the 1920s. John S. Sumner, secretary of the New York Society for the Suppression of Vice, obtained a copy before publication and accused Liveright of selling obscene material directed to the public. After a celebrated trial the case was dismissed by the New York court.\n\nFour years after the initial publication of Firebaugh's \"Satyricon\", a version adapted for a general market was published by Liveright in 1927. It was edited by Charles Whibley.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7395855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7395855", "title": "William Fraser (historian)", "text": "William Fraser (historian)\n\nFraser's family came of the stock of farmers and craftsmen in The Mearns. He was born the eldest of two sons and a daughter of James Fraser (1786 - 1834), a mason, and his spouse Ann (died 1821), daughter of James Walker, tenant of the farm of Elfhill of Fetteresso, about 5 miles from Stonehaven. The couple were settled and were feuholders at Links of Arduthie.\n\nWilliam Fraser was initially educated at a private school in Stonehaven kept by the Reverend Charles Michie, a M.A. graduate of Aberdeen's Marischal College in 1810, who spent his life teaching.\n\nOn 23 August 1830, Fraser began a five-year apprenticeship with Messrs., Brand and Burnett, solicitors in Stonehaven. He went to Edinburgh in December 1835, where he joined the firm of Hill and Tod, Writers to Her Majesty's Signet. He continued his education at Edinburgh University in Scots Law and conveyancing. In 1838 he was taking classes in French.\n\nIt was his good fortune to be subsequently concerned in various cases requiring antiquarian and, in particular, genealogical research, and he was thus early introduced to those studies in which he became such an expert, and steadily built up a remarkable body of knowledge which made possible his great series of fifty or so volumes on the histories of between twenty and thirty of the leading noble and landed families of Scotland.\n\nFraser was frequently summoned to London to give evidence before the Committee for Privileges of the House of Lords. In 1882 the University of Edinburgh conferred on him the honorary degree of LL.D. In 1885 he was created a Companion of the Order of the Bath and in 1887 he was made a Civil Knight Commander of the Bath, being invested by Queen Victoria at Osborne House on 2 August that year. The knighthood was a unique distinction for a Scottish historian at that time.\n\nAn article in the \"Dundee Advertiser\" on 1 June 1896, stated: \"There is no Scotsman living who has so much experience in deciphering ancient documents, nor one who can so skillfully extract information from faded and time-worn parchments\" as Sir William Fraser.\n\nSir William Fraser died three months after his sister Ann, who had kept house for him since 1846. They share a highly unusual and ornate grave, designed by the architect Arthur Forman Balfour Paul, in Dean Cemetery in Edinburgh just south of the northmost path in the north section of the original cemetery.\n\nThe Sir William Fraser Chair of Scottish History and Palaeography at the University of Edinburgh, founded in 1901, is the oldest chair of Scottish History. The professorship was named after and endowed by Sir William Fraser, who gave the university £25,000 for it. The chair has been held by a number of distinguished historians.\n\nIn his will he also endowed the Fraser Homes at Colinton (Edinburgh) for \"authors or artists in necessitous circumstances.\"\n\nHe also left money for \"printing works which would tend to elucidate the history and antiquities of Scotland.\" The nine-volume book series, \"The Scots Peerage\" (1904–1914), by Sir James Balfour Paul, was used for that purpose and is dedicated to him.\n\n\nFraser's writings include:\n\n"}
{"id": "40684904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40684904", "title": "William Leslie Bowles", "text": "William Leslie Bowles\n\nWilliam Leslie Bowles (26 February 1885 at Leichhardt, Sydney, Australia – 21 February 1954 at Frankston, Victoria) was an Australian sculptor and medallist.\n\nHe started at Kangaroo Point State School, Brisbane. After studying at the Brisbane Technical College Leslie-Bowles won 1910 a scholarship for studies in Great Britain. There he met other sculptors like Sir Bertram Mackennal, and he was a student at the Royal Academy.\n\nBowles was a soldier in the First World War. He lived in England until his marriage with Mary Lees of Kelso in 1924. Australia. Then they lived in Prahran, Melbourne. He was survived by his wife.\n\nHe started work in Mackennal's studio. After the war he worked and exhibited in England. Later in the Twenties in Australia, William Leslie Bowles was employed at Melbourne Exhibition Building on the Australian War Memorial. In 1926 he had become a member of the Royal Society of British Sculptors. He became mainly connected with the design of large monuments, nevertheless he was also invited to design Australian coins and medals.\n"}
{"id": "48796001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48796001", "title": "Women Who Rock: Making Scenes, Building Communities Oral History Archive", "text": "Women Who Rock: Making Scenes, Building Communities Oral History Archive\n\nWomen Who Rock was created in 2011 to establish an open dialogue about the portrayal of women and popular music by looking at the effects of society, culture and social justice. This community is brought together in the local Seattle area by University of Washington and Seattle University faculty members, students, community members, activists and academics in music history, gender, race and cultural/ social justice movements. The wide variety of individuals from this community are able to introduce and collaborate with artists, musicians, media channels, activists, scholars and students in order to research, discuss and understand the role of women and popular music throughout social scenes and movements. \n\nThis forum serves as a way to connect the music community and give light to artists who have been lost to time. This community discusses the underlying social constraints that pave the way for some artists while limiting others. They also try to outline the roots of each sound in popular music and try to give its source recognition.\nThe University of Washington Libraries Digital Initiatives has hosted the Women Who Rock Digital Oral History Archive since April 2013. The University of Washington works with the Women Who Rock collective by supporting their digital archive and instituting classes on the Seattle campus that represent their ideals. They continue to grow their digital network and data through documentation of scenes collected at their events.\nThe Women Who Rock collective hosts concerts, interviews, and conferences. They hold an annual unConference & Film Festival that includes music, dance, art and media. They have had notable performers such as Alice Bag, Medusa, Star Evelyn Harris and Christa Bell were featured at their events.\n\nThe Women Who Rock Archive is based on community outreach and involvement. Over the years the program has partnered with local Seattle communities, including students within and outside the University of Washington. The first collaborating students who helped co-found the project included graduate students from the GWSS Department of the University of Washington who were mentored by Michelle Habell-Pallan and Sonnet Retman, such as: Nicole Robert, Martha González, Rebecca Clark Mane, and Kim Carter Muñoz. . Lulu (Luzviminda) Carpenter, an experienced Seattle organizer and head of Urzuri Productions, is a main organizer of the Women Who Rock annual unConference. As a faculty member at Seattle University Mako Fitts Ward ensured that the unConference bridged with women musician, performers and activists in Seattle's hip scene. Michelle Habell-Pallan and Sonnet Retman co-teach the class known as Rock the Archive: Hip Hop, Indie Rock & New Media, which allows students to study women and African-American involvement in popular music culture. Assignments include blog posts, video critiques, and musical analysis. Each assignment is aimed at a key theme of the project: write to rock, reel rebels, making scenes and building communities. For example, students were able to gain admission to the Museum of History and Industry (MOHAI) and learn about the legacy of Seattle hip-hop. The project has successfully built communities both at the undergraduate and graduate level. Graduate Mentor Workshops are also provided to allow graduate students to present their work in front of a distinguished audience within their respective field and gain critique and feedback.\n\nWrite to Rock is a subunit of the Women Who Rock organization, focusing on the written histories of popular music. It features many music writers ranging from scholars and critics to journalists and bloggers. With music analysis also ranging across a wide spectrum of genres and music cultures, the group’s focuses are to question and criticize previous music histories through a feminist lens, and to re-write these stories in order to include the erased contributions of women and women of color. The Write to Rock archive, which also contributes to the Women Who Rock’s Digital Oral Archive, features biographies and interviews with a number of the individuals who participate with the organization as critical writers. These individuals include: Daphne Brooks, Sherrie Tucker, Maylei Blackwell, María Elena Gaitán, and Deborah Wong.\n\nThe Women Who Rock Archive also features a number of filmmakers and producers who contribute to the archival and recognition of female artists. The archive has worked with numerous filmmakers including Barni Qaasim, Sheila Jackson, and Karen Whitehead. Recently, they featured a screening of Her Aim Is True, a film biography of Jini Dellaccio, a famous rock photographer. By highlighting media featuring women, the group attempts to promote greater documentation of the achievements made by female artists. In this, they hope to avoid the systemic under-representation of women in music that is historically pervasive. Videos, in the form of oral histories, are one of several methods the Women Who Rock Archive uses to digitally chronicles the stories of female performers, activists, and community leaders. As of 2015 the Women Who Rock Archive has eleven oral histories, documenting stories by Martha Gonzalez (musician), Medusa, Onion Carillo and several others.Two Women Who Rock media-makers and UW Gender, Women, & Sexuality Studies Phd students, Angelica Macklin and Monica De La Torre worked with UW faculty Michelle Habell-Pallan and Sonnet Retman to design, curate, and produce the digital version of the Women Who Rock Archive. They partnered with UW Libraries Digital Initiative Team Ann Lally, Anne Graham, Angela Rosette-Tavares, and Rinna Rem.\n\nThe Making Scenes aspect represents the Women Who Rock organization’s outreach into the local community through events. This allows for community collaboration and dialogue about specific performers and bands. One of the main events this organization holds is an annual conference called the Women Who Rock unConference. Since 2011, this conference has been devoted to women, music, and community building. It has featured various performers including Cholo en Cello, Alice Bag, Medusa, Nobuko Miyamoto, and Quetzal Flores. The conference has been digitally documented every year. Women Who Rock has received support from many organizations such as Washington Hall, Hidmo, De Cajón Project, Seattle Fandango Project, Sistah Sinema, Open Hand Reel, 4Culture, Asian Pacific Islander Women & Family Safety Center, B-Girl Media, Central District Forum for Arts and Ideas, Green Bodies, Feest.org, Seattle Girls’ School Latina Affinity Group, Social HeARTistry Educators (S.H.E), Storygarden Seattle, Uzuri Productions, and Zenyu. The organization has also received extensive support from the University of Washington (UW) through the UW Diversity Research Institute, the UW Graduate School, Gender, Women, & Sexuality Studies (GWSS), and American Ethnic Studies.\n\nIn an article by the Stranger, a weekly alternative arts and culture newspaper, the Women Who Rock unConference in 2012 was compared to the Northwest Women’s Show held in the Centurylink's Events Center near Centurylink Field. The two events were so widely distinct in that the “unConference” promoted conversation about the politics of gender, race, class, and sexuality generated by popular music while the Northwest Women’s Show focused on dieting, Fitness, Fashion, Wine Tasting, and other aspects. The author pointed out the disparity between the two events and talked about how fulfilling the unConference was and the triviality of the Northwest Women’s Show.\n\n"}
{"id": "42230937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42230937", "title": "Zoran Lakić", "text": "Zoran Lakić\n\nZoran Lakić () (born 31 October 1933) is Montenegrin historian and member of the Montenegrin Academy of Sciences and Arts.\n\n"}
