{"id": "48898869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48898869", "title": "193rd Glider Infantry Regiment (United States)", "text": "193rd Glider Infantry Regiment (United States)\n\nThe 193rd Glider Infantry Regiment was an airborne infantry regiment of the United States Army during World War II. It was part of the 17th Airborne Division and fought during the Battle of the Bulge.\n\nThe 193rd Glider Infantry Regiment was created during World War II on 16 December 1942. It was officially formed at Camp Mackall, North Carolina on 15 April 1943 under the command of Colonel Maurice G. Stubbs. The regiment was assigned to the 17th Airborne Division and sailed to England in 1944 in preparation for fighting on the Western Front.\n\nDuring Operation Market Garden in September 1944, the 17th Airborne Division was held in reserve, and continued to train at Camp Chisleden in England. Almost three months later, on 16 December, the German Army launched a surprise attack, known as the Battle of the Bulge and the 17th Airborne Division, including the 193rd Glider Infantry Regiment, were finally sent to combat. The 17th Airborne Division was attached to General George Patton's U.S. Third Army and ordered to immediately close in at Mourmelon-le-Grand Airfield. After taking over the defense of the Meuse River sector from Givet to Verdun on 25 December, the 17th Airborne Division moved to Neufchateau, Belgium, then marched through the snow to Morhet, relieving the U.S. 28th Infantry Division on 3 January 1945 and establishing a Division Command Post.\n\nA howling blizzard with below freezing temperatures greeted the 193rd on the morning of 4 January 1945. Patton had ordered the 17th Airborne Division to seize the town of Flamierge where the 11th Armored and the 87th Infantry Divisions had encountered brutal resistance from the Germans. Two regiments, the 513th Parachute Infantry on the right and the 194th Glider Infantry on the left attacked the town of Flamierge while the 193rd GIR and the 507th Parachute Infantry Regiment were held in reserve to counter an anticipated German panzer counterattack. In the ensuing days, the 193rd GIR, as well as the rest of the 17th Airborne Division, would gain their baptism of fire that would have tested the mettle of the most experienced airborne units. The fighting was so intense that the area would forever be called \"Dead Man's Ridge\" because of the high casualty count sustained in order to take the strongly defended German emplacements.\n\nBy 11 January the German lines were crumbling and all of the 17th Airborne units regrouped except for the 193rd which drove on with American armored units to seize the town of Houffalize. On 16 January the 193rd rejoined the rest of the 17th Airborne and relieved the 11th Armored Division in pursuit of the 9th Panzer Division, the Panzer Lehr Division, and the 26th Infantry Division. This took the 17th Airborne through Flamizoulle, Gives and on to Bertogne as the Germans continued retreating toward the Siegfried Line.\n\nBeyond Bertogne, 193rd GIR split into \"Task Force Stubbs\" and \"Task Force Bell\" with the combined objective of seizing the town of Compogne and the high ground in its immediate vicinity. Turning east from that area the 193rd along with the 507th PIR led the continuing attack across Luxembourg to the Our River on the border of Germany. The German 5th Parachute Division made a vain attempt to maintain a bridgehead at the Our but the 507th managed to cross into Germany and probe the Siegfried Line.\n\nThe 17th Airborne Division was finally relieved by the 6th Armored Division and returned to camp at Chalons-sur-Marne in France on 11 February 1945. The 193rd Glider Infantry Regiment was disbanded on 1 March 1945 in Belgium in a reorganization of the XVIII Airborne Corps, of which the 17th Airborne Division formed a part. The 550th Airborne Infantry Battalion was also disbanded. Both units had suffered heavy casualties during the Ardennes Campaign and the remaining troopers were consolidated into the 3rd Battalion of the 194th Glider Infantry Regiment.\n\n1. http://www.ww2-airborne.us/units/193/193.html\n"}
{"id": "26882287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26882287", "title": "2010 GA6", "text": "2010 GA6\n\n is an Apollo asteroid. Apollo's cross the orbit of Earth and are the largest group of near-Earth objects with nearly 10 thousand known members. It orbits the Sun in the inner main-belt at a distance of 0.93–3.69 AU once every 3 years and 6 months (1,281 days; semi-major axis of 2.31 AU). Its orbit has a high eccentricity of 0.60 and an inclination of 10° with respect to the ecliptic. With an aphelion of 3.69 AU, it is also a Mars-crossing asteroid, as it crosses the orbit of the Red Planet at 1.666 AU.\n\nWith a 1-day observation arc, had a 1 in 6 million chance of impacting Earth in 2074. It was removed from the Sentry Risk Table on 8 April 2010. The asteroid has now a minimum orbital intersection distance with Earth of , which corresponds to 1.6 lunar distances, and is notably larger than the nominal distance of its 2010-flyby.\n\nOn 9 April 2010, 02:07 UT, the asteroid passed Earth at a nominal distance of or 1.1 lunar distances. A stony asteroid 22 meters in diameter can be expected to create an air burst with the equivalent of 300 kilotons of TNT at an altitude of . Generally only asteroids larger than 35 meters across pose a threat to a town or city. There are no projection of future close approaches to Earth available.\n\nAccording to NASA astronomers, measures approximately in diameter. Based on a generic magnitude-to-diameter conversion, the asteroid measures between 19 and 36 meters in diameter, for an absolute magnitude of 22.6, and an assumed albedo between 0.057 and 0.20, which represent typical values for carbonaceous and stony asteroids, respectively.\n\nThis minor planet has neither been numbered nor named.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45300625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45300625", "title": "2015 BP513", "text": "2015 BP513\n\nUntil 18 January 2015 18:00 UT the small dim asteroid either had an elongation less than 45 degrees from the Sun or was significantly fainter than apparent magnitude 23. On 18 January 2015 13:36 UT the asteroid passed from the Moon and at 17:09 UT passed from Earth. The asteroid was not discovered until 9 days later on 27 January 2015 by Pan-STARRS at an apparent magnitude of 21 using a Ritchey–Chrétien telescope. Two precovery images from 19 January 2015 when the asteroid was apparent magnitude 16 were then located.\n"}
{"id": "18482489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18482489", "title": "Absorption edge", "text": "Absorption edge\n\nAn absorption edge, absorption discontinuity or absorption limit is a sharp discontinuity in the absorption spectrum of a substance. These discontinuities occur at wavelengths where the energy of an absorbed photon corresponds to an electronic transition or ionization potential. When the quantum energy of the incident radiation becomes smaller than the work required to eject an electron from one or other quantum states in the constituent absorbing atom, the incident radiation ceases to be absorbed by that state. For example, incident radiation on an atom of a wavelength that has a corresponding energy just below the binding energy of the K-shell electron in that atom cannot eject the K-shell electron.\n\n"}
{"id": "31190988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31190988", "title": "Akshayavat", "text": "Akshayavat\n\nAkshayavat or Akshay Vat (\"the indestructible banyan tree\") is a sacred fig tree mentioned in the Hindu mythology.\n\nAccording to a legend, once the sage Markandeya asked Lord Narayana to show him a specimen of the divine power. Narayana flooded the entire world for a moment, during which only the Akshayavat could be seen above the water level.\n\nA tree in Prayag (Allahabad) has been described as Akshayavat in the \"Prayag Mahatmya\" of the \"Matsya Purana\".\n\nIn \"The Encyclopaedia Asiatica\" (1976), Edward Balfour identifies a banyan tree mentioned in Ramayana with the tree at Prayag. Rama, Lakshmana and Sita are said to have rested beneath this tree. The Chinese Buddhist pilgrim Xuanzang mentions a tree (a stump with few branches) which was said to be the home of a man-eating demon. As part of a custom, some pilgrims would offer themselves at the nearby temple. Xuanzang mentions that the tree was surrounded with the human bones. Alexander Cunningham identified this tree with the Akshayavat at Prayag. Rishabha (Jain tirthankar) is also said to have practised tapasya beneath the historical Akshayavat at Prayag.\n\nCurrently, a sacred fig tree located within the Patalpuri Temple at the Allahabad Fort is worshipped as the Akshayavat described in ancient texts. , a permission from the Commandant of Allahabad Fort's Ordnance Depot is needed to visit this tree. On one day during the Kumbh Mela, the site is open to all the pilgrims. However, a popular opinion is that the Patalpuri Temple tree is not the authentic Akshayavat: the real Akshayavat is in another underground temple inside the Fort. When the British gained control of the Allahabad Fort after the Treaty of Allahabad in 1765, they did not want general public to access the sensitive parts of the fort. So, the shrine was moved to fringes of the fort compound, that is, the present-day Patalpuri Temple. According to the Welsh travel writer Fanny Parkes, who visited both the tree sites in 1831, when the original Akshayavat chamber was closed, the local Brahmins set up the stump of a ber tree in Patalpuri. They claimed that it was a branch of the original Akshayavat that had penetrated through the walls, and made a lot of money from pilgrims visiting it during the fair. Parkes states that the local Hindus of Prayag knew about this \"trick\", and did not worship the false Akshayavat. An 18th century map of the Fort from the British Library confirms this: the location of the original temple is shown in the center of the fort; while the present-day Patalpuri Temple is on the outskirts of the Fort. In the 1950s, Shiva Nath Katju also claimed that the \"tree\" placed in the Patalpuri Temple was only a log that was replaced by the priests every 4–5 years. The commander of the fort acknowledged his claim as true.\n\nA tree at Gaya, Bihar and another tree at Varanasi are also worshipped as the Akshayavat. The Bodhi tree is said to be a manifestation of the Akashayavat at Prayag.\n\nAccording to Tibetan Buddhist tradition, Buddha is said to have planted a seed of the Prayag's Akshayavat next to Mount Kailash on a mountain known as the Palace of the Medicine Buddha.\n\n"}
{"id": "27376091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27376091", "title": "Apennine deciduous montane forest", "text": "Apennine deciduous montane forest\n\nThe Apennine deciduous montane forests, a temperate broadleaf and mixed forests biome, are an ecoregion in the mountain ranges of Italian peninsula including the Apennine Mountains. The development of these forests is ensured by the high rainfall Apennines (from 1000 mm in southern Apennine to 2500 mm in northern Apennine), combined with a temperate-cool climate. Because of climate change, the presence of Silver Fir (Abies alba), although still widespread, is dramatically reduced in favour of the beech.\n\nThe ecoregion has two major vegetation zones:<br>\n\n1. Extensive forests\n\nWith presence of deciduous Quercus ssp. and sporadic Fraxinus ssp., Acer ssp., Tilia ssp., Populus ssp., Castanea sativa, Carpinus ssp., Ostrya ssp., Ulmus ssp., Betula ssp., Sorbus ssp., Salix ssp., Prunus ssp., Taxus baccata, Malus sylvestris, Pyrus and other Central-European broadleaved and coniferous species.\n\n2. Mountain summit meadows and cushion scrubs, with the predominant species:\n\nThere are a high number of endemic species increasing at higher elevations and representing between 10 and 20% of the total flora. \n\nAlpine species include \n"}
{"id": "3522161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3522161", "title": "Askaryan radiation", "text": "Askaryan radiation\n\nThe Askaryan radiation also known as Askaryan effect is the phenomenon whereby a particle traveling faster than the phase velocity of light in a dense dielectric (such as salt, ice or the lunar regolith) produces a shower of secondary charged particles which contain a charge anisotropy and thus emits a cone of coherent radiation in the radio or microwave part of the electromagnetic spectrum. It is similar to the Cherenkov radiation. It is named after Gurgen Askaryan, a Soviet-Armenian physicist who postulated it in 1962.\n\nThe radiation was first observed experimentally in 2000, 38 years after its theoretical prediction. So far the effect has been observed in silica sand, rock salt, ice, and Earth's atmosphere.\n\nThe effect is of primary interest in using bulk matter to detect ultra-high energy neutrinos. The Antarctic Impulse Transient Antenna (ANITA) experiment uses antennas attached to a balloon flying over Antarctica to detect the Askaryan radiation produced as cosmic neutrinos travel through the ice. Several experiments have also used the Moon as a neutrino detector based on detection of the Askaryan radiation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11052882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11052882", "title": "Cap carbonate", "text": "Cap carbonate\n\nCap carbonates are layers of distinctively textured carbonate rocks which typically form the uppermost layer of sedimentary sequences reflecting major glaciations in the geological record.\n\nThe rising temperatures, and increased oceanic surface area - due to reduced ice cover and rising sea levels - at the end of a glaciation increase the rate of precipitation.\n\nHigh concentrations of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide (CO) must build up in the atmosphere to overcome the effect of the high reflectivity (albedo) of ice and allow temperatures to rise sufficiently to begin melting.\n\nIncreased precipitation dissolves carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, falling as a weak carbonic acid - acid rain.\n\nThis would weather exposed silicate and carbonate rock, including readily-attacked glacial debris, which would release large amounts of calcium. When washed into the ocean, these precipitate to form distinctively textured layers of carbonate sedimentary rock.\n\nA heavily debated cap carbonate appears at the top of the Gaskiers glaciation, believed by many to be global in extent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27868859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27868859", "title": "Cañadón Asfalto Formation", "text": "Cañadón Asfalto Formation\n\nThe Cañadón Asfalto Formation is a Early Jurassic to Middle Jurassic geologic formation, from the Jurassic period of the Mesozoic Era. It was formerly thought to be Mid to Late Jurassic in age, but Uranium-Lead dating of the volcanic tuff beds have revised the age to the mid Toarcian to sometime in the Mid Jurassic, probably the Bajocian.\n\nIt is located in the Cañadón Asfalto Basin, a rift basin in Chubut Province of northwestern Patagonia, in southern Argentina. The basin started forming in the earliest Jurassic.\n\nIt is composed of fluvial-lacustrine deposits, typically sandstones and shales with a saline paleolake carbonate evaporitic sequence of limestone in its lowest Las Chacritas Member. Interbedded with these are volcanic tuffites. It is divided into two members, the Las Chacritas Member, and the overlying Puesto Almada member, but the latter has also been assigned to the overlying Cañadón Calcáreo Formation by other authors.\n\nAccording to a palynological study the dominant pollen was produced by the conifer families Cheirolepidiaceae (\"Classopollis\") and Araucariaceae (mainly \"Araucariacites\" and \"Callialasporites\"), suggesting that warm-temperate and relatively humid conditions under highly seasonal climate prevailed during the depositional times of the unit. The abundance of \"Botryococcus\" supports the presence of a shallow lake with probably saline conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2151986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2151986", "title": "Coronado National Memorial", "text": "Coronado National Memorial\n\nThe Coronado National Memorial commemorates the first organized expedition into the Southwest by conquistador Francisco Vásquez de Coronado. The memorial is located in a natural setting on the international border on the southeast flank of the Huachuca Mountains south of Sierra Vista, Arizona. The memorial confirms the ties that bind the United States and Mexico.\n\nOfficial statements indicate that it was initially designed as a gesture of goodwill and cooperation between the United States and Mexico, through the recognition of Coronado's 1540 expedition to the area. For example, in 1939 the House Committee on Foreign Affairs noted:\n\nAnd E. K. Burlew, Acting Secretary of the Interior added in 1940:\n\nThus the site was first designated Coronado International Memorial on August 18, 1941, with the hope that a comparable adjoining area would be established in Mexico. The arrangement might have been similar to the Waterton-Glacier International Peace Park between the United States and Canada. However, despite interest by the government of Mexico, the Mexican memorial was never created, therefore Congress changed the authorized designation to a national memorial on July 9, 1952. The memorial was established by Harry S. Truman on November 5 of that year. As with all historic areas administered by the National Park Service, the national memorial was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on October 15, 1966.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51153830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51153830", "title": "Critical mineral raw materials", "text": "Critical mineral raw materials\n\nSince 2011, the European Commission assesses a 3-year list of Critical Raw Materials (CRMs) for the EU economy within its Raw Materials Initiative. To date, 14 CRMs were identifed in 2011, 20 in 2014 and 27 in 2017.\n\nThese materials are mainly used in energy transition and digital technologies.\n\nSeveral factors may combine together to make a raw material (mineral or not) a \"critical\" resource. These may include the following:\n\n\nThere are many issues about these resources and they concern a large number of people and human activities. It is possible to distinguish:\n\n\n\nAccording to the United Nations (2011, and then 2013), as the demand for rare metals will, with a rate of 3 to 9 times, quickly exceed the consumed tonnage in 2013, it is urgent and priority should be placed on recycling rare metals with a worldwide production lower than 100 000 t/year, in order to conserve natural resources and energy, but this measure will not be enough. Planned obsolescence of products which contain these metals should be limited, and all elements inside computers, mobile phones or other electronic objects found in electronic waste should be recycled. This involves looking for alternatives, eco-designed, and that the consumers and collectivities change their behavior in favor of the selective sorting aimed at an almost total recycling of these metals.\n\nIn the same time, the demand for these materials \"has to be optimized or reduced\", insist Ernst Ulrich von Weizsäcker and Ashok Khosla, co-presidents of the International Resource Panel created in 2007 by the United States, and hosted by the UNEP) to analyse the impact of resource use on the environment in 2013.\n\nEurope alone produced about 12 million tons of metallic wastes in 2012, and this amount tends to grow more than 4% a year (faster than municipal waste). However, less than 20 metals, of the 60 studied by experts of the UNEP, were recycled to more than 50% in the world. For 34 compounds, they were recycled at lower than 1% of the total thrown in the trash.\n\nAccording to the UNEP, even without new technologies, that rate could be greatly increased.\n\nThe energy efficiency of the production and recycling methods has also to be developed.\n\nPrecise and reliable information about the localization of the deposits of metals and rare minerals are very few available. According to Patrice Christmann of the BRGM, the international group could find more than 2 scientific articles about this \"natural mineral heritage\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1123434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1123434", "title": "Diffusion of innovations", "text": "Diffusion of innovations\n\nDiffusion of innovations is a theory that seeks to explain how, why, and at what rate new ideas and technology spread. Everett Rogers, a professor of communication studies, popularized the theory in his book \"Diffusion of Innovations\"; the book was first published in 1962, and is now in its fifth edition (2003). Rogers argues that diffusion is the process by which an innovation is communicated over time among the participants in a social system. The origins of the diffusion of innovations theory are varied and span multiple disciplines.\nRogers proposes that four main elements influence the spread of a new idea: the innovation itself, communication channels, time, and a social system. This process relies heavily on human capital. The innovation must be widely adopted in order to self-sustain. Within the rate of adoption, there is a point at which an innovation reaches critical mass.\n\nThe categories of adopters are innovators, early adopters, early majority, late majority, and laggards. Diffusion manifests itself in different ways and is highly subject to the type of adopters and innovation-decision process. The criterion for the adopter categorization is innovativeness, defined as the degree to which an individual adopts a new idea.\n\nThe concept of diffusion was first studied by the French sociologist Gabriel Tarde in late 19th century and by German and Austrian anthropologists and geographers such as Friedrich Ratzel and Leo Frobenius. The study of diffusion of innovations took off in the subfield of rural sociology in the midwestern United States in the 1920s and 1930s. Agriculture technology was advancing rapidly, and researchers started to examine how independent farmers were adopting hybrid seeds, equipment, and techniques. A study of the adoption of hybrid corn seed in Iowa by Ryan and Gross (1943) solidified the prior work on diffusion into a distinct paradigm that would be cited consistently in the future. Since its start in rural sociology, Diffusion of Innovations has been applied to numerous contexts, including medical sociology, communications, marketing, development studies, health promotion, organizational studies, knowledge management, conservation biology and complexity studies, with a particularly large impact on the use of medicines, medical techniques, and health communications. In organizational studies, its basic epidemiological or internal-influence form was formulated by H. Earl Pemberton, who provided examples of institutional diffusion such as postage stamps and standardized school ethics codes.\n\nIn 1962, Everett Rogers, a professor of rural sociology, published his seminal work: \"Diffusion of Innovations\". Rogers synthesized research from over 508 diffusion studies across the fields that initially influenced the theory: anthropology, early sociology, rural sociology, education, industrial sociology and medical sociology. Using his synthesis, Rogers produced a theory of the adoption of innovations among individuals and organizations. \"Diffusion of Innovations\" and Rogers' later books are among the most often cited in diffusion research. His methodologies are closely followed in recent diffusion research, even as the field has expanded into, and been influenced by, other methodological disciplines such as social network analysis and communication.\n\nThe key elements in diffusion research are:\nStudies have explored many characteristics of innovations. Meta-reviews have identified several characteristics that are common among most studies. These are in line with the characteristics that Rogers initially cited in his reviews.\n\nPotential adopters evaluate an innovation on its relative advantage (the perceived efficiencies gained by the innovation relative to current tools or procedures), its compatibility with the pre-existing system, its complexity or difficulty to learn, its trialability or testability, its potential for reinvention (using the tool for initially unintended purposes), and its observed effects. These qualities interact and are judged as a whole. For example, an innovation might be extremely complex, reducing its likelihood to be adopted and diffused, but it might be very compatible with a large advantage relative to current tools. Even with this high learning curve, potential adopters might adopt the innovation anyway.\n\nStudies also identify other characteristics of innovations, but these are not as common as the ones that Rogers lists above. The fuzziness of the boundaries of the innovation can impact its adoption. Specifically, innovations with a small core and large periphery are easier to adopt. Innovations that are less risky are easier to adopt as the potential loss from failed integration is lower. Innovations that are disruptive to routine tasks, even when they bring a large relative advantage, might not be adopted because of added instability. Likewise, innovations that make tasks easier are likely to be adopted. Closely related to relative complexity, knowledge requirements are the ability barrier to use presented by the difficulty to use the innovation. Even when there are high knowledge requirements, support from prior adopters or other sources can increase the chances for adoption.\n\nLike innovations, adopters have been determined to have traits that affect their likelihood to adopt an innovation. A bevy of individual personality traits have been explored for their impacts on adoption, but with little agreement. Ability and motivation, which vary on situation unlike personality traits, have a large impact on a potential adopter's likelihood to adopt an innovation. Unsurprisingly, potential adopters who are motivated to adopt an innovation are likely to make the adjustments needed to adopt it. Motivation can be impacted by the meaning that an innovation holds; innovations can have symbolic value that encourage (or discourage) adoption. First proposed by Ryan and Gross (1943), the overall connectedness of a potential adopter to the broad community represented by a city. Potential adopters who frequent metropolitan areas are more likely to adopt an innovation. Finally, potential adopters who have the power or agency to create change, particularly in organizations, are more likely to adopt an innovation than someone with less power over his choices.\n\nOrganizations face more complex adoption possibilities because organizations are both the aggregate of its individuals and its own system with a set of procedures and norms. Three organizational characteristics match well with the individual characteristics above: tension for change (motivation and ability), innovation-system fit (compatibility), and assessment of implications (observability). Organizations can feel pressured by a tension for change. If the organization's situation is untenable, it will be motivated to adopt an innovation to change its fortunes. This tension often plays out among its individual members. Innovations that match the organization's pre-existing system require fewer coincidental changes and are easy to assess and more likely to be adopted. The wider environment of the organization, often an industry, community, or economy, exerts pressures on the organization, too. Where an innovation is diffusing through the organization's environment for any reason, the organization is more likely to adopt it. Innovations that are intentionally spread, including by political mandate or directive, are also likely to diffuse quickly.\n\nDiffusion occurs through a five–step decision-making process. It occurs through a series of communication channels over a period of time among the members of a similar social system. Ryan and Gross first identified adoption as a process in 1943. Rogers' five stages (steps): awareness, interest, evaluation, trial, and adoption are integral to this theory. An individual might reject an innovation at any time during or after the adoption process. Abrahamson examined this process critically by posing questions such as: How do technically inefficient innovations diffuse and what impedes technically efficient innovations from catching on? Abrahamson makes suggestions for how organizational scientists can more comprehensively evaluate the spread of innovations. In later editions of \"Diffusion of Innovation\", Rogers changes his terminology of the five stages to: knowledge, persuasion, decision, implementation, and confirmation. However, the descriptions of the categories have remained similar throughout the editions.\n\nTwo factors determine what type a particular decision is:\n\n\nBased on these considerations, three types of innovation-decisions have been identified.\n\nThe rate of adoption is defined as the relative speed at which participants adopt an innovation. Rate is usually measured by the length of time required for a certain percentage of the members of a social system to adopt an innovation. The rates of adoption for innovations are determined by an individual’s adopter category. In general, individuals who first adopt an innovation require a shorter adoption period (adoption process) when compared to late adopters.\n\nWithin the adoption curve at some point the innovation reaches critical mass. This is when the number of individual adopters ensures that the innovation is self-sustaining.\n\nRogers outlines several strategies in order to help an innovation reach this stage, including when an innovation adopted by a highly respected individual within a social network and creating an instinctive desire for a specific innovation. Another strategy includes injecting an innovation into a group of individuals who would readily use said technology, as well as providing positive reactions and benefits for early adopters.\n\nAdoption is an individual process detailing the series of stages one undergoes from first hearing about a product to finally adopting it. Diffusion signifies a group phenomenon, which suggests how an innovation spreads.\n\nRogers defines an adopter category as a classification of individuals within a social system on the basis of innovativeness. In the book \"Diffusion of Innovations\", Rogers suggests a total of five categories of adopters in order to standardize the usage of adopter categories in diffusion research. The adoption of an innovation follows an S curve when plotted over a length of time. The categories of adopters are: innovators, early adopters, early majority, late majority and laggards In addition to the gatekeepers and opinion leaders who exist within a given community, change agents may come from outside the community. Change agents bring innovations to new communities– first through the gatekeepers, then through the opinion leaders, and so on through the community.\n\nFailed diffusion does not mean that the technology was adopted by no one. Rather, failed diffusion often refers to diffusion that does not reach or approach 100% adoption due to its own weaknesses, competition from other innovations, or simply a lack of awareness. From a social networks perspective, a failed diffusion might be widely adopted within certain clusters but fail to make an impact on more distantly related people. Networks that are over-connected might suffer from a rigidity that prevents the changes an innovation might bring, as well.\nSometimes, some innovations also fail as a result of lack of local involvement and community participation.\n\nFor example, Rogers discussed a situation in Peru involving the implementation of boiling drinking water to improve health and wellness levels in the village of Los Molinas. The residents had no knowledge of the link between sanitation and illness. The campaign worked with the villagers to try to teach them to boil water, burn their garbage, install latrines and report cases of illness to local health agencies. In Los Molinas, a stigma was linked to boiled water as something that only the \"unwell\" consumed, and thus, the idea of healthy residents boiling water prior to consumption was frowned upon. The two-year educational campaign was considered to be largely unsuccessful. This failure exemplified the importance of the roles of the communication channels that are involved in such a campaign for social change. An examination of diffusion in El Salvador determined that there can be more than one social network at play as innovations are communicated. One network carries information and the other carries influence. While people might hear of an innovation's uses, in Rogers' Los Molinas sanitation case, a network of influence and status prevented adoption.\n\nLazarsfeld and Merton first called attention to the principles of homophily and its opposite, heterophily. Using their definition, Rogers defines homophily as \"the degree to which pairs of individuals who interact are similar in certain attributes, such as beliefs, education, social status, and the like\". When given the choice, individuals usually choose to interact with someone similar to themselves. Homophilous individuals engage in more effective communication because their similarities lead to greater knowledge gain as well as attitude or behavior change. As a result, homophilous people tend to promote diffusion among each other. However, diffusion requires a certain degree of heterophily to introduce new ideas into a relationship; if two individuals are identical, no diffusion occurs because there is no new information to exchange. Therefore, an ideal situation would involve potential adopters who are homophilous in every way, except in knowledge of the innovation.\n\nPromotion of healthy behavior provides an example of the balance required of homophily and heterophily. People tend to be close to others of similar health status. As a result, people with unhealthy behaviors like smoking and obesity are less likely to encounter information and behaviors that encourage good health. This presents a critical challenge for health communications, as ties between heterophilous people are relatively weaker, harder to create, and harder to maintain. Developing heterophilous ties to unhealthy communities can increase the effectiveness of the diffusion of good health behaviors. Once one previously homophilous tie adopts the behavior or innovation, the other members of that group are more likely to adopt it, too.\n\nNot all individuals exert an equal amount of influence over others. In this sense opinion leaders are influential in spreading either positive or negative information about an innovation. Rogers relies on the ideas of Katz & Lazarsfeld and the two-step flow theory in developing his ideas on the influence of opinion leaders.\n\nOpinion leaders have the most influence during the evaluation stage of the innovation-decision process and on late adopters. In addition opinion leaders typically have greater exposure to the mass media, more cosmopolitan, greater contact with change agents, more social experience and exposure, higher socioeconomic status, and are more innovative than others.\n\nResearch was done in the early 1950s at the University of Chicago attempting to assess the cost-effectiveness of broadcast advertising on the diffusion of new products and services. The findings were that opinion leadership tended to be organized into a hierarchy within a society, with each level in the hierarchy having most influence over other members in the same level, and on those in the next level below it. The lowest levels were generally larger in numbers and tended to coincide with various demographic attributes that might be targeted by mass advertising. However, it found that direct word of mouth and example were far more influential than broadcast messages, which were only effective if they reinforced the direct influences. This led to the conclusion that advertising was best targeted, if possible, on those next in line to adopt, and not on those not yet reached by the chain of influence.\n\nResearch on actor-network theory (ANT) also identifies a significant overlap between the ANT concepts and the diffusion of innovation which examine the characteristics of innovation and its context among various interested parties within a social system to assemble a network or system which implements innovation.\n\nOther research relating the concept to public choice theory finds that the hierarchy of influence for innovations need not, and likely does not, coincide with hierarchies of official, political, or economic status. Elites are often not innovators, and innovations may have to be introduced by outsiders and propagated up a hierarchy to the top decision makers.\n\nPrior to the introduction of the Internet, it was argued that social networks had a crucial role in the diffusion of innovation particularly tacit knowledge in the book \"The IRG Solution – hierarchical incompetence and how to overcome it\". The book argued that the widespread adoption of computer networks of individuals would lead to much better diffusion of innovations, with greater understanding of their possible shortcomings and the identification of needed innovations that would not have otherwise occurred. The social model proposed by Ryan and Gross is expanded by Valente who uses social networks as a basis for adopter categorization instead of solely relying on the system-level analysis used by Ryan and Gross. Valente also looks at an individual's personal network, which is a different application than the organizational perspective espoused by many other scholars.\n\nRecent research by Wear shows, that particularly in regional and rural areas, significantly more innovation takes place in communities which have stronger inter-personal networks.\n\nInnovations are often adopted by organizations through two types of innovation-decisions: collective innovation decisions and authority innovation decisions. The collective decision occurs when adoption is by consensus. The authority decision occurs by adoption among very few individuals with high positions of power within an organization. Unlike the optional innovation decision process, these decision processes only occur within an organization or hierarchical group. Within an organization certain individuals are termed \"champions\" who stand behind an innovation and break through opposition. The champion plays a very similar role as the champion used within the efficiency business model Six Sigma. The process contains five stages that are slightly similar to the innovation-decision process that individuals undertake. These stages are: agenda-setting, matching, redefining/restructuring, clarifying and routinizing.\n\nDiffusion of Innovations has been applied beyond its original domains.\nIn the case of political science and administration, policy diffusion focuses on how institutional innovations are adopted by other institutions, at the local, state, or country level. An alternative term is 'policy transfer' where the focus is more on the agents of diffusion and the diffusion of policy knowledge, such as in the work of Diane Stone. Specifically, policy transfer can be defined as \"knowledge about how policies administrative arrangements, institutions, and ideas in one political setting (past or present) is used in the development of policies, administrative arrangements, institutions, and ideas in another political setting\".\n\nThe first interests with regards to policy diffusion were focused in time variation or state lottery adoption, but more recently interest has shifted towards mechanisms (emulation, learning and coercion) or in channels of diffusion where researchers find that regulatory agency creation is transmitted by country and sector channels. At the local level, examining popular city-level policies make it easy to find patterns in diffusion through measuring public awareness. At the international level, economic policies have been thought to transfer among countries according to local politicians' learning of successes and failures elsewhere and outside mandates made by global financial organizations. As a group of countries succeed with a set of policies, others follow, as exemplified by the deregulation and liberalization across the developing world after the successes of the Asian Tigers. The reintroduction of regulations in the early 2000s also shows this learning process, which would fit under the stages of knowledge and decision, can be seen as lessons learned by following China's successful growth.\n\nPeres, Muller and Mahajan suggested that diffusion is \"the process of the market penetration of new products and services that is driven by social influences, which include all interdependencies among consumers that affect various market players with or without their explicit knowledge\".\n\nEveland evaluated diffusion from a phenomenological view, stating, \"Technology is information, and exists only to the degree that people can put it into practice and use it to achieve values\".\n\nDiffusion of existing technologies has been measured using \"S curves\". These technologies include radio, television, VCR, cable, flush toilet, clothes washer, refrigerator, home ownership, air conditioning, dishwasher, electrified households, telephone, cordless phone, cellular phone, per capita airline miles, personal computer and the Internet. These data can act as a predictor for future innovations.\n\nDiffusion curves for infrastructure reveal contrasts in the diffusion process of personal technologies versus infrastructure.\n\nBoth positive and negative outcomes are possible when an individual or organization chooses to adopt a particular innovation. Rogers states that this area needs further research because of the biased positive attitude that is associated with innovation. Rogers lists three categories for consequences: desirable vs. undesirable, direct vs. indirect, and anticipated vs. unanticipated.\n\nIn contrast Wejnert details two categories: public vs. private and benefits vs. costs.\n\nPublic consequences comprise the impact of an innovation on those other than the actor, while private consequences refer to the impact on the actor. Public consequences usually involve collective actors, such as countries, states, organizations or social movements. The results are usually concerned with issues of societal well-being. Private consequences usually involve individuals or small collective entities, such as a community. The innovations are usually concerned with the improvement of quality of life or the reform of organizational or social structures.\n\nBenefits of an innovation obviously are the positive consequences, while the costs are the negative. Costs may be monetary or nonmonetary, direct or indirect. Direct costs are usually related to financial uncertainty and the economic state of the actor. Indirect costs are more difficult to identify. An example would be the need to buy a new kind of pesticide to use innovative seeds. Indirect costs may also be social, such as social conflict caused by innovation. Marketers are particularly interested in the diffusion process as it determines the success or failure of a new product. It is quite important for a marketer to understand the diffusion process so as to ensure proper management of the spread of a new product or service.\n\nThe diffusion of an innovation typically follows an S shaped curve which often resembles a logistic function. Mathematical programming models such as the S-D model apply the diffusion of innovations theory to real data problems. In addition to that, agent-based models follow a more intuitive process by designing individual-level rules to model diffusion of ideas and innovations.\n\nComplex network models can also be used to investigate the spread of innovations among individuals connected to each other by a network of peer-to-peer influences, such as in a physical community or neighborhood.\n\nSuch models represent a system of individuals as \"nodes\" in a network (or graph). The interactions that link these individuals are represented by the edges of the network and can be based on the probability or strength of social connections. In the dynamics of such models, each node is assigned a current state, indicating whether or not the individual has adopted the innovation, and model equations describe the evolution of these states over time.\n\nIn threshold models, the uptake of technologies is determined by the balance of two factors: the (perceived) usefulness (sometimes called utility) of the innovation to the individual as well as barriers to adoption, such as cost. The multiple parameters that influence decisions to adopt, both individual and socially motivated, can be represented by such models as a series of nodes and connections that represent real relationships. Borrowing from social network analysis, each node is an innovator, an adopter, or a potential adopter. Potential adopters have a threshold, which is a fraction of his neighbors who adopt the innovation that must be reached before he will adopt. Over time, each potential adopter views his neighbors and decides whether he should adopt based on the technologies they are using. When the effect of each individual node is analyzed along with its influence over the entire network, the expected level of adoption was seen to depend on the number of initial adopters and the network's structure and properties. Two factors emerge as important to successful spread of the innovation: the number of connections of nodes with their neighbors and the presence of a high degree of common connections in the network (quantified by the clustering coefficient). These models are particularly good at showing the impact of opinion leaders relative to others. Computer models are often used to investigate this balance between the social aspects of diffusion and perceived intrinsic benefit to the individuals.\n\nBecause there are more than four thousand articles across many disciplines published on Diffusion of Innovations, with a vast majority written after Rogers created a systematic theory, there have been few widely adopted changes to the theory. Although each study applies the theory in slightly different ways, this lack of cohesion has left the theory stagnant and difficult to apply with consistency to new problems.\n\nDiffusion is difficult to quantify because humans and human networks are complex. It is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to measure what exactly causes adoption of an innovation. This is important, particularly in healthcare. Those encouraging adoption of health behaviors or new medical technologies need to be aware of the many forces acting on an individual and his or her decision to adopt a new behavior or technology. Diffusion theories can never account for all variables, and therefore might miss critical predictors of adoption. This variety of variables has also led to inconsistent results in research, reducing heuristic value.\n\nRogers placed the contributions and criticisms of diffusion research into four categories: pro-innovation bias, individual-blame bias, recall problem, and issues of equality. The pro-innovation bias, in particular, implies that all innovation is positive and that all innovations should be adopted. Cultural traditions and beliefs can be consumed by another culture's through diffusion, which can impose significant costs on a group of people. The one-way information flow, from sender to receiver, is another weakness of this theory. The message sender has a goal to persuade the receiver, and there is little to no reverse flow. The person implementing the change controls the direction and outcome of the campaign. In some cases, this is the best approach, but other cases require a more participatory approach. In complex environments where the adopter is receiving information from many sources and is returning feedback to the sender, a one-way model is insufficient and multiple communication flows need to be examined.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35895879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35895879", "title": "Effects of global warming on oceans", "text": "Effects of global warming on oceans\n\nEffects of global warming on oceans provides information on the various effects that global warming has on oceans. Global warming can affect sea levels, coastlines, ocean acidification, ocean currents, seawater, sea surface temperatures, tides, the sea floor, weather, and trigger several changes in ocean bio-geochemistry; all of these affect the functioning of a society.\n\nThere are a number of factors affecting rising sea levels, including the thermal expansion of seawater, the melting of glaciers and ice sheets on land, and possibly human changes to groundwater storage.\n\nThe consensus of many studies of coastal tide gauge records is that during the past century sea level has risen worldwide at an average rate of 1–2 mm/yr reflecting a net flux of heat into the surface of the land and oceans. Corresponding studies based on satellite altimetry shows that this rate has increased to closer to 3 mm/yr during the more completely monitored past 20 years. A recent review of the literature suggests that 30% of the sea level rise since 1993 is due to thermal expansion and 55% due to continental ice melt, both resulting from warming global temperatures. In another study, results estimate the heat content of the ocean in the upper 700 meters has increased significantly from 1955–2010. Observations of the changes in heat content of the ocean are important for providing realistic estimates of how the ocean is changing with global warming. An even more recent study of the contributions to global sea level due to melting of the two large ice sheets based on satellite measurements of gravity fluctuations suggests that the melting of these alone are causing global sea level to about 1 mm/yr. In a recent modeling study, scientists used an earth system model to study several variables of the ocean, one of which was the heat content of the oceans over the past several hundred years. The earth system model incorporated the atmosphere, land surface processes, and other earth components to make it more realistic and similar to observations. Results of their model simulation showed that since 1500, the ocean heat content of the upper 500 m has increased.\n\nThe connection between sea level rise and ocean thermal expansion follows from Charles's law (also known as the law of volumes) put simply states that the volume of a given mass is proportional to its temperature. This contribution to sea level is monitored by oceanographers using a succession of temperature measuring profiling instruments, which is then compiled at national data centers such as the United States National Oceanographic Data Center. The International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fifth Assessment Report estimates that the upper ocean (surface to 750 m deep) has warmed by 0.09 to 0.13 degrees C per decade over the past 40 years. Other processes important in influencing global sea level include changes to groundwater storage including dams and reservoirs.\n\nGlobal warming also has an enormous impact with respect to melting glaciers and ice sheets. Higher global temperatures melt glaciers such as the one in Greenland, which flow into the oceans, adding to the amount of seawater. A large rise (on the order of several feet) in global sea levels poses many threats. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), “such a rise would inundate coastal wetlands and lowlands, erode beaches, increase the risk of flooding, and increase the salinity of estuaries, aquifers, and wetlands.”\n\nSuperimposed on the global rise in sea level, is strong regional and decadal variability which may cause sea level along a particular coastline to decline with time (for example along the Canadian eastern seaboard), or to rise faster than the global average. Regions that have shown a rapid rise in sea level during the past two decades include the western tropical Pacific and the United States northeastern seaboard. These regional variations in sea level are the result of many factors, such as local sedimentation rates, geomorphology, post-glacial rebound, and coastal erosion. Large storm events, such as Hurricane Sandy in the eastern Atlantic, can dramatically alter coastlines and affect sea level rise as well.\n\nCoastal regions would be most affected by rising sea levels. The increase in sea level along the coasts of continents, especially North America are much more significant than the global average. According to 2007 estimates by the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), “global average sea level will rise between 0.6 and 2 feet (0.18 to 0.59 meters) in the next century. Along the U.S. Mid-Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, however, sea level rose in the last century 5 to 6 inches more than the global average. This is due to the subsiding of coastal lands. The sea level along the U.S. Pacific coast has also increased more than the global average but less than along the Atlantic coast. This can be explained by the varying continental margins along both coasts; the Atlantic type continental margin is characterized by a wide, gently sloping continental shelf, while the Pacific type continental margin incorporates a narrow shelf and slope descending into a deep trench. Since low-sloping coastal regions should retreat faster than higher-sloping regions, the Atlantic coast is more vulnerable to sea level rise than the Pacific coast.\n\nThe rise in sea level along coastal regions carries implications for a wide range of habitats and inhabitants. Firstly, rising sea levels will have a serious impact on beaches— a place which humans love to visit recreationally and a prime location for real estate. It is ideal to live on the coast, due to a more moderate climate and pleasant scenery, but beachfront property is at risk from eroding land and rising sea levels. Since the threat posed by rising sea levels has become more prominent, property owners and local government have taken measures to prepare for the worst. For example, “Maine has enacted a policy declaring that shorefront buildings will have to be moved to enable beaches and wetlands to migrate inland to higher ground.” Additionally, many coastal states add sand to their beaches to offset shore erosion, and many property owners have elevated their structures in low-lying areas. As a result of the erosion and ruin of properties by large storms on coastal lands, governments have looked into buying land and having residents relocate further inland. The seas now absorb much of human-generated carbon dioxide, which then affects temperature change. The oceans store 93 percent of that energy which helps keep the planet livable by moderating temperatures.\n\nAnother important coastal habitat that is threatened by sea level rise is wetlands, which “occur along the margins of estuaries and other shore areas that are protected from the open ocean and include swamps, tidal flats, coastal marshes and bayous.” Wetlands are extremely vulnerable to rising sea levels, since they are within several feet of sea level. The threat posed to wetlands is serious, due to the fact that they are highly productive ecosystems, and they have an enormous impact on the economy of surrounding areas. Wetlands in the U.S. are rapidly disappearing due to an increase in housing, industry, and agriculture, and rising sea levels contribute to this dangerous trend. As a result of rising sea levels, the outer boundaries of wetlands tend to erode, forming new wetlands more inland. According to the EPA, “the amount of newly created wetlands, however, could be much smaller than the lost area of wetlands— especially in developed areas protected with bulkheads, dikes, and other structures that keep new wetlands from forming inland.” When estimating a sea level rise within the next century of 50 cm (20 inches), the U.S. would lose 38% to 61% of its existing coastal wetlands.\n\nA rise in sea level will have a negative impact not only on coastal property and economy but on our supply of fresh water. According to the EPA, “Rising sea level increases the salinity of both surface water and ground water through salt water intrusion.” Coastal estuaries and aquifers, therefore, are at a high risk of becoming too saline from rising sea levels. With respect to estuaries, an increase in salinity would threaten aquatic animals and plants that cannot tolerate high levels of salinity. Aquifers often serve as a primary water supply to surrounding areas, such as Florida’s Biscayne aquifer, which receives freshwater from the Everglades and then supplies water to the Florida Keys. Rising sea levels would submerge low-lying areas of the Everglades, and salinity would greatly increase in portions of the aquifer. The considerable rise in sea level and the decreasing amounts of freshwater along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts would make those areas rather uninhabitable. Many economists predict that global warming will be one of the main economic threats to the West Coast, specifically in California. \"Low-lying coastal areas, such as along the Gulf Coast, are particularly vulnerable to sea-level rise and stronger storms—and those risks are reflected in rising insurance rates and premiums. In Florida, for example, the average price of a homeowners’ policy increased by 77 percent between 2001 and 2006.\" \n\nSince rising sea levels present a pressing problem not only to coastal communities but to the whole global population as well, much scientific research has been performed to analyze the causes and consequences of a rise in sea level. The U.S. Geological Survey has conducted such research, addressing coastal vulnerability to sea level rise and incorporating six physical variables to analyze the changes in sea level: geomorphology; coastal slope (percent); rate of relative sea level rise (mm/yr); shoreline erosion and acceleration rates (m/yr); mean tidal range (m); and mean wave height (m). The research was conducted on the various coasts of the U.S., and the results are very useful for future reference. Along the Pacific coast, the most vulnerable areas are low-lying beaches, and “their susceptibility is primarily a function of geomorphology and coastal slope.” With regard to research performed along the Atlantic coast, the most vulnerable areas to sea level rise were found to be along the Mid-Atlantic coast (Maryland to North Carolina) and Northern Florida, since these are “typically high-energy coastlines where the regional coastal slope is low and where the major landform type is a barrier island.” For the Gulf coast, the most vulnerable areas are along the Louisiana-Texas coast. According to the results, “the highest-vulnerability areas are typically lower-lying beach and marsh areas; their susceptibility is primarily a function of geomorphology, coastal slope and rate of relative sea-level rise.”\n\nMany humanitarians and environmentalists believe that political policy needs to have a bigger role in carbon dioxide reduction. Humans have a substantial influence on the rise of sea level because we emit increasing levels of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere through automobile use and industry. A higher amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere leads to higher global temperatures, which then results in thermal expansion of seawater and melting of glaciers and ice sheets.\n\nThe currents in the world’s oceans are a result of varying temperatures associated with the changing latitudes of our planet. As the atmosphere is warmed nearest the equator, the hot air at the surface of our planet is heated, causing it to rise and draw in cooler air to take its place, creating what is known as circulation cells. This ultimately causes the air to be significantly colder near the poles than at the equator.\n\nWind patterns associated with these circulation cells drive surface currents which push the surface water to the higher latitudes where the air is colder. This cools the water down enough to where it is capable of dissolving more gasses and minerals, causing it to become very dense in relation to lower latitude waters, which in turn causes it to sink to the bottom of the ocean, forming what is known as North Atlantic Deep Water (NADW) in the north and Antarctic Bottom Water (AABW) in the south. Driven by this sinking and the upwelling that occurs in lower latitudes, as well as the driving force of the winds on surface water, the ocean currents act to circulate water throughout the entire ocean.\n\nWhen global warming is added into the equation, changes occur, especially in the regions where deep water is formed. With the warming of the oceans and subsequent melting of glaciers and the polar ice caps, more and more fresh water is released into the high latitude regions where deep water is formed. This extra water that gets thrown into the chemical mix dilutes the contents of the water arriving from lower latitudes, reducing the density of the surface water. Consequently, the water sinks more slowly than it normally would.\n\nIt is important to note that ocean currents provide the necessary nutrients for life to sustain itself in the lower latitudes. Should the currents slow down, fewer nutrients would be brought to sustain ocean life resulting in a crumbling of the food chain and irreparable damage to the marine ecosystem. Slower currents would also mean less carbon fixation. Naturally, the ocean is the largest sink within which carbon is stored. When waters become saturated with carbon, excess carbon has nowhere to go, because the currents are not bringing up enough fresh water to fix the excess. This causes a rise in atmospheric carbon which in turn causes positive feedback that can lead to a runaway greenhouse effect.\n\nAnother effect of global warming on the carbon cycle is ocean acidification. The ocean and the atmosphere constantly act to maintain a state of equilibrium, so a rise in atmospheric carbon naturally leads to a rise in oceanic carbon. When carbon dioxide is dissolved in water it forms hydrogen and bicarbonate ions, which in turn breaks down to hydrogen and carbonate ions. All these extra hydrogen ions increase the acidity of the ocean and make survival harder for planktonic organisms that depend on calcium carbonate to form their shells. A decrease in the base of the food chain will, once again, be destructive to the ecosystems to which they belong. With fewer of these photosynthetic organisms present at the surface of the ocean, less carbon dioxide will be converted to oxygen, thereby allowing the greenhouse gasses to go unchecked.\n\nThe effects of ocean acidification can already be seen and have been happening since the start of the industrial revolution, with pH levels of the ocean dropping by 0.1 since the pre-industrial revolution times. An effect called coral bleaching can be seen on the Great Barrier Reef in Australia, where ocean acidification’s effects are already taking place. Coral bleaching is when unicellular organisms that help make up the coral begin to die off and leave the coral giving it a white appearance. These unicellular organisms are important for the coral to feed and get the proper nutrition that is necessary to survive, leaving the coral weak and malnourished. This results in weaker coral that can die more easily and offer less protection to the organisms that depend on coral for shelter and protection. Increased acidity can also dissolve an organism’s shell, threatening entire groups of shellfish and zooplankton and in turn, presenting a threat to the food chain and ecosystem.\n\nWithout strong shells, surviving and growing becomes more of a challenge for marine life that depend on calcified shells. The populations of these animals becomes smaller and individual members of the species turn weaker. The fish that rely on these smaller shell constructing animals for food now have a decreased supply, and animals that need coral reefs for shelter now have less protection. The effects of ocean acidification decrease population sizes of marine life and may cause an economic disruption if enough fish die off, which can seriously harm the global economy as the fishing industry makes a lot of money worldwide.\n\nOcean acidification can also have affects on marine fish larvae. It internally affects their olfactory systems, which is a crucial part of their development, especially in the beginning stage of their life. Orange clownfish larvae mostly live on oceanic reefs that are surrounded by vegetative islands. With the use of their sense of smell, larvae are known to be able to detect the differences between reefs surrounded by vegetative islands and reefs not surrounded by vegetative islands. Clownfish larvae need to be able to distinguish between these two destinations to have the ability to locate an area that is satisfactory for their growth. Another use for marine fish olfactory systems is to help in determining the difference between their parents and other adult fish in order to avoid inbreeding.\n\nAt James Cook University’s experimental aquarium facility, clownfish were sustained in non-manipulated seawater that obtained a pH of 8.15 ± 0.07 which is similar to our current ocean’s pH. To test for effects of different pH levels, seawater was manipulated to three different pH levels, including the non-manipulated pH. The two opposing pH levels correspond with climate change models that predict future atmospheric CO2 levels. In the year 2100 the model predicts that we could potentially acquire CO2 levels at 1,000 ppm, which correlates with the pH of 7.8 ± 0.05. Continuing even further into the next century, we could have CO2 levels at 1,700 ppm, which correlates with a pH of 7.6 ± 0.05. \n\nResults of this experiment show that when larvae is exposed to a pH of 7.8 ± 0.05 their reaction to environmental cues differs drastically to larvae’s reaction to cues in a non-manipulated pH. Not only did if effect their reaction to environmental cues but their reaction to parental cues was also skewed compared to the larvae reared in a non-manipulated pH of 8.15 ± 0.07. At the pH of 7.6 ± 0.05 larvae had no reaction to any type of cue. These results display the negative outcomes that could possibly be the future for marine fish larvae.\n\nSteps are being taken to combat the potentially devastating effects of ocean acidification, and scientists worldwide are coming together to solve the problem that is known as “global warming’s evil twin”.\n\nBetween 1750 and 2000, surface-ocean pH has decreased by about 0.1, from about 8.2 to about 8.1. Surface-ocean pH has probably not been below 8.1 during the past 2 million years. Projections suggest that surface-ocean pH could decrease by an additional 0.3–0.4 units by 2100. Ocean acidification could threaten coral reefs, fisheries, protected species, and other natural resources of value to society.\n\nOcean deoxygenation is projected to increase hypoxia by 10%, and triple suboxic waters (oxygen concentrations 98% less than the mean surface concentrations), for each 1 °C of upper ocean warming.\n\nResearch indicates that increasing ocean temperatures are taking a toll on the marine ecosystem. A study on phytoplankton changes in the Indian Ocean indicates a decline of up to 20% in marine phytoplankton during the past six decades. During the summer, the western Indian Ocean is home to one of the largest concentrations of marine phytoplankton blooms in the world when compared to other oceans in the tropics. Increased warming in the Indian Ocean enhances ocean stratification, which prevents nutrient mixing in the euphotic zone where there is ample light available for photosynthesis. Thus, primary production is constrained and the region’s entire food web is disrupted. If rapid warming continues, experts predict that the Indian Ocean will transform into an ecological desert and will no longer be productive. The same study also addresses the abrupt decline of tuna catch rates in the Indian Ocean during the past half century. This decrease is mostly due to increased industrial fisheries, with ocean warming adding further stress to the fish species. These rates show a 50-90% decrease over 5 decades.\n\nA study that describes climate-driven trends in contemporary ocean productivity looked at global-ocean net primary production (NPP) changes detected from satellite measurements of ocean color from 1997 to 2006. These measurements can be used to quantify ocean productivity on a global scale and relate changes to environmental factors. They found an initial increase in NPP from 1997 to 1999 followed by a continuous decrease in productivity after 1999. These trends are propelled by the expansive stratified low-latitude oceans and are closely linked to climate variability. This relationship between the physical environment and ocean biology effects the availability of nutrients for phytoplankton growth since these factors influence variations in upper-ocean temperature and stratification. The downward trends of ocean productivity after 1999 observed in this study can give insight into how climate change can affect marine life in the future.\n\nGlobal warming also affects weather patterns as they pertain to cyclones. Scientists have found that although there have been fewer cyclones than in the past, the intensity of each cyclone has increased. A simplified definition of what global warming means for the planet is that colder regions would get warmer and warmer regions would get much warmer. However, there is also speculation that the complete opposite could be true. A warmer earth could serve to moderate temperatures worldwide. There is still much that is not understood about the earth’s climate, because it is very difficult to make climate models. As such, predicting the effects that global warming might have on our planet is still an inexact science. Global warming is also causing the amount of hazards on the ocean to increase. It has increased the amount of fog at sea level, making it harder for ships to navigate without crashing into other boats or other objects in the ocean. The warmness and dampness of the ground is causing the fog to come closer to the surface level of the ocean. As the rain falls it makes the ground wet, then the warm air rises leaving a layer of cold air that turns into fog causing an unsafe ocean for travel and for working conditions on the ocean. It is also causing the ocean to create more floods due to the fact that it is warming up and the glaciers from the ice age are now melting causing the sea levels to rise, which causes the ocean to take over part of the land and beaches. Glaciers are melting at an alarming rate which is causing the ocean to rise faster than predicted. Inside of this ice there are traces of bubbles that are filled with CO that are then released into the atomosphere when they melt causing the greenhouse effect to grow at an even faster rate.\n\nThe contents of the ocean floor vary diversely in their origin, from eroded land materials carried into the ocean by rivers or wind flow, waste and decompositions of sea animals, and precipitation of chemicals within the sea water itself, including some from outer space. There are four basic types of sediment of the sea floor: 1.) \"Terrigenous\" describes the sediment derived from the materials eroded by rain, rivers, glaciers and that which is blown into the ocean by the wind, such as volcanic ash. 2.) Biogenous material is the sediment made up of the hard parts of sea animals that accumulate on the bottom of the ocean. 3.) Hydrogenous sediment is the dissolved material that precipitates in the ocean when oceanic conditions change, and 4.) cosmogenous sediment comes from extraterrestrial sources. These are the components that make up the seafloor under their genetic classifications.\n\nTerrigenous sediment is the most abundant sediment found on the seafloor, followed by biogenous sediment. The sediment in areas of the ocean floor which is at least 30% biogenous materials is labeled as an ooze. There are two types of oozes: Calcareous oozes and Siliceous oozes. Plankton is the contributor of oozes. Calcareous oozes are predominantly composed of calcium shells found in phytoplankton such as coccolithophores and zooplankton like the foraminiferans. These calcareous oozes are never found deeper than about 4,000 to 5,000 meters because at further depths the calcium dissolves. Similarly, Siliceous oozes are dominated by the siliceous shells of phytoplankton like diatoms and zooplankton such as radiolarians. Depending on the productivity of these planktonic organisms, the shell material that collects when these organisms die may build up at a rate anywhere from 1mm to 1 cm every 1000 years.\n\nHydrogenous sediments are uncommon. They only occur with changes in oceanic conditions such as temperature and pressure. Rarer still are cosmogenous sediments. Hydrogenous sediments are formed from dissolved chemicals that precipitate from the ocean water, or along the mid-ocean ridges, they can form by metallic elements binding onto rocks that have water of more than 300 degrees Celsius circulating around them. When these elements mix with the cold sea water they precipitate from the cooling water. Known as manganese nodules, they are composed of layers of different metals like manganese, iron, nickel, cobalt, and copper, and they are always found on the surface of the ocean floor. Cosmogenous sediments are the remains of space debris such as comets and asteroids, made up of silicates and various metals that have impacted the Earth.\n\nAnother way that sediments are described is through their descriptive classification. These sediments vary in size, anywhere from 1/4096 of a mm to greater than 256 mm. The different types are: boulder, cobble, pebble, granule, sand, silt, and clay, each type becoming finer in grain. The grain size indicates the type of sediment and the environment in which it was created. Larger grains sink faster and can only be pushed by rapid flowing water (high energy environment) whereas small grains sink very slowly and can be suspended by slight water movement, accumulating in conditions where water is not moving so quickly. This means that larger grains of sediment may come together in higher energy conditions and smaller grains in lower energy conditions.\n\nVarious amounts of these sediments are deposited around the world and are distributed in three ways: by the processes of production, dilution, and destruction.\n\nIt is known that climate affects the ocean and the ocean affects the climate. Due to climate change, as the ocean gets warmer this too has an effect on the seafloor. Because of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, this warming will have an effect on the bicarbonate buffer of the ocean. The bicarbonate buffer is the concentration of bicarbonate ions that keeps the ocean's acidity balanced within a pH range of 7.5–8.4. Addition of carbon dioxide to the ocean water makes the oceans more acidic. Increased ocean acidity is not good for the planktonic organisms that depend on calcium to form their shells. Calcium dissolves with very weak acids and any increase in the ocean's acidity will be destructive for the calcareous organisms. Increased ocean acidity will lead to decreased Calcite Compensation Depth (CCD), causing calcite to dissolve in shallower waters. This will then have a great effect on the calcareous ooze in the ocean, because the sediment itself would begin to dissolve.\n\nIf ocean temperatures rise it will have an effect right beneath the ocean floor and it will allow the addition of another greenhouse gas, methane gas. Methane gas has been found under methane hydrate, frozen methane and water, beneath the ocean floor. With the ocean warming, this methane hydrate will begin to melt and release methane gas, contributing to global warming. However, recent research has found that CO2 uptake outpaces methane release in these areas of the ocean causing overall decreases in global warming. Increase of water temperature will also have a devastating effect on different oceanic ecosystems like coral reefs. The direct effect is the coral bleaching of these reefs, which live within a narrow temperature margin, so a small increase in temperature would have a drastic effects in these environments. When corals bleach it is because the coral loses 60–90% of their zooxanthellae due to various stressors, ocean temperature being one of them. If the bleaching is prolonged, the coral host would die.\n\nAlthough uncertain, another effect of climate change may be the growth, toxicity, and distribution of harmful algal blooms. These algal blooms have serious effects on not only marine ecosystems, killing sea animals and fish with their toxins, but also for humans as well. Some of these blooms deplete the oxygen around them to levels low enough to kill fish.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25340789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25340789", "title": "Geomagnetic secular variation", "text": "Geomagnetic secular variation\n\nGeomagnetic secular variation refers to changes in the Earth's magnetic field on time scales of about a year or more. These changes mostly reflect changes in the Earth's interior, while more rapid changes mostly originate in the ionosphere or magnetosphere.\n\nThe geomagnetic field changes on time scales from milliseconds to millions of years. Shorter time scales mostly arise from currents in the ionosphere and magnetosphere, and some changes can be traced to geomagnetic storms or daily variations in currents. Changes over time scales of a year or more mostly reflect changes in the Earth's interior, particularly the iron-rich core. These changes are referred to as \"secular variation\".\n\nSecular variation can be observed in measurements at magnetic observatories, some of which have been around for hundreds of years (the Kew Observatory, for example). Over such a time scale, magnetic declination is observed to vary over tens of degrees. A movie on the right shows how global declinations have changed over the last few centuries.\n\nTo analyze global patterns of change in the geomagnetic field, geophysicists fit the field data to a spherical harmonic expansion (see International Geomagnetic Reference Field). The terms in this expansion can be divided into a dipolar part, like the field around a bar magnet, and a nondipolar part. The dipolar part dominates the geomagnetic field and determines the direction of the geomagnetic poles. The direction and intensity of the dipole change over time. Over the last two centuries the dipole strength has been decreasing at a rate of about 6.3% per century. At this rate of decrease, the field would reach zero in about 1600 years. However, this strength is about average for the last 7 thousand years, and the current rate of change is not unusual.\n\nA prominent feature in the non-dipolar part of the secular variation is a \"westward drift\" at a rate of about 0.2 degrees per year. This drift is not the same everywhere and has varied over time. The globally averaged drift has been westward since about 1400 AD but eastward between about 1000 AD and 1400 AD.\n\nChanges that predate magnetic observatories are recorded in archaeological and geological materials. Such changes are referred to as \"paleomagnetic secular variation\" or \"paleosecular variation (PSV)\". The records typically include long periods of small change with occasional large changes reflecting geomagnetic excursions and geomagnetic reversals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54962", "title": "Geophysics", "text": "Geophysics\n\nGeophysics is a subject of natural science concerned with the physical processes and physical properties of the Earth and its surrounding space environment, and the use of quantitative methods for their analysis. The term \"geophysics\" sometimes refers only to the geological applications: Earth's shape; its gravitational and magnetic fields; its internal structure and composition; its dynamics and their surface expression in plate tectonics, the generation of magmas, volcanism and rock formation. However, modern geophysics organizations use a broader definition that includes the water cycle including snow and ice; fluid dynamics of the oceans and the atmosphere; electricity and magnetism in the ionosphere and magnetosphere and solar-terrestrial relations; and analogous problems associated with the Moon and other planets.\n\nAlthough geophysics was only recognized as a separate discipline in the 19th century, its origins date back to ancient times. The first magnetic compasses were made from lodestones, while more modern magnetic compasses played an important role in the history of navigation. The first seismic instrument was built in 132 AD. Isaac Newton applied his theory of mechanics to the tides and the precession of the equinox; and instruments were developed to measure the Earth's shape, density and gravity field, as well as the components of the water cycle. In the 20th century, geophysical methods were developed for remote exploration of the solid Earth and the ocean, and geophysics played an essential role in the development of the theory of plate tectonics.\n\nGeophysics is applied to societal needs, such as mineral resources, mitigation of natural hazards and environmental protection. In Exploration Geophysics, Geophysical survey data are used to analyze potential petroleum reservoirs and mineral deposits, locate groundwater, find archaeological relics, determine the thickness of glaciers and soils, and assess sites for environmental remediation.\nGeophysics is a highly interdisciplinary subject, and geophysicists contribute to every area of the Earth sciences. To provide a clearer idea of what constitutes geophysics, this section describes phenomena that are studied in physics and how they relate to the Earth and its surroundings.\n\nThe gravitational pull of the Moon and Sun give rise to two high tides and two low tides every lunar day, or every 24 hours and 50 minutes. Therefore, there is a gap of 12 hours and 25 minutes between every high tide and between every low tide.\n\nGravitational forces make rocks press down on deeper rocks, increasing their density as the depth increases. Measurements of gravitational acceleration and gravitational potential at the Earth's surface and above it can be used to look for mineral deposits (see gravity anomaly and gravimetry). The surface gravitational field provides information on the dynamics of tectonic plates. The geopotential surface called the geoid is one definition of the shape of the Earth. The geoid would be the global mean sea level if the oceans were in equilibrium and could be extended through the continents (such as with very narrow canals).\n\nThe Earth is cooling, and the resulting heat flow generates the Earth's magnetic field through the geodynamo and plate tectonics through mantle convection. The main sources of heat are the primordial heat and radioactivity, although there are also contributions from phase transitions. Heat is mostly carried to the surface by thermal convection, although there are two thermal boundary layers – the core-mantle boundary and the lithosphere – in which heat is transported by conduction. Some heat is carried up from the bottom of the mantle by mantle plumes. The heat flow at the Earth's surface is about , and it is a potential source of geothermal energy.\n\nSeismic waves are vibrations that travel through the Earth's interior or along its surface. The entire Earth can also oscillate in forms that are called normal modes or free oscillations of the Earth. Ground motions from waves or normal modes are measured using seismographs. If the waves come from a localized source such as an earthquake or explosion, measurements at more than one location can be used to locate the source. The locations of earthquakes provide information on plate tectonics and mantle convection.\n\nMeasurements of seismic waves are a source of information on the region that the waves travel through. If the density or composition of the rock changes suddenly, some waves are reflected. Reflections can provide information on near-surface structure. Changes in the travel direction, called refraction, can be used to infer the deep structure of the Earth.\n\nEarthquakes pose a risk to humans. Understanding their mechanisms, which depend on the type of earthquake (e.g., intraplate or deep focus), can lead to better estimates of earthquake risk and improvements in earthquake engineering.\n\nAlthough we mainly notice electricity during thunderstorms, there is always a downward electric field near the surface that averages 120 volts per meter. Relative to the solid Earth, the atmosphere has a net positive charge due to bombardment by cosmic rays. A current of about 1800 amperes flows in the global circuit. It flows downward from the ionosphere over most of the Earth and back upwards through thunderstorms. The flow is manifested by lightning below the clouds and sprites above.\n\nA variety of electric methods are used in geophysical survey. Some measure spontaneous potential, a potential that arises in the ground because of man-made or natural disturbances. Telluric currents flow in Earth and the oceans. They have two causes: electromagnetic induction by the time-varying, external-origin geomagnetic field and motion of conducting bodies (such as seawater) across the Earth's permanent magnetic field. The distribution of telluric current density can be used to detect variations in electrical resistivity of underground structures. Geophysicists can also provide the electric current themselves (see induced polarization and electrical resistivity tomography).\n\nElectromagnetic waves occur in the ionosphere and magnetosphere as well as the Earth's outer core. Dawn chorus is believed to be caused by high-energy electrons that get caught in the Van Allen radiation belt. Whistlers are produced by lightning strikes. Hiss may be generated by both. Electromagnetic waves may also be generated by earthquakes (see seismo-electromagnetics).\n\nIn the highly conductive liquid iron of the outer core, magnetic fields are generated by electric currents through electromagnetic induction. Alfvén waves are magnetohydrodynamic waves in the magnetosphere or the Earth's core. In the core, they probably have little observable effect on the Earth's magnetic field, but slower waves such as magnetic Rossby waves may be one source of geomagnetic secular variation.\n\nElectromagnetic methods that are used for geophysical survey include transient electromagnetics, magnetotellurics and electromagnetic seabed logging.\n\nThe Earth's magnetic field protects the Earth from the deadly solar wind and has long been used for navigation. It originates in the fluid motions of the outer core. The magnetic field in the upper atmosphere gives rise to the auroras.\nThe Earth's field is roughly like a tilted dipole, but it changes over time (a phenomenon called geomagnetic secular variation). Mostly the geomagnetic pole stays near the geographic pole, but at random intervals averaging 440,000 to a million years or so, the polarity of the Earth's field reverses. These geomagnetic reversals, analyzed within a Geomagnetic Polarity Time Scale, contain 184 polarity intervals in the last 83 million years, with change in frequency over time, with the most recent brief complete reversal of the Laschamp event occurring 41,000 years ago during the last glacial period. Geologists observed geomagnetic reversal recorded in volcanic rocks, through magnetostratigraphy correlation (see natural remanent magnetization) and their signature can be seen as parallel linear magnetic anomaly stripes on the seafloor. These stripes provide quantitative information on seafloor spreading, a part of plate tectonics. They are the basis of magnetostratigraphy, which correlates magnetic reversals with other stratigraphies to construct geologic time scales. In addition, the magnetization in rocks can be used to measure the motion of continents.\n\nRadioactive decay accounts for about of the Earth's internal heat, powering the geodynamo and plate tectonics. The main heat-producing isotopes are potassium-40, uranium-238, uranium-235, and thorium-232.\nRadioactive elements are used for radiometric dating, the primary method for establishing an absolute time scale in geochronology.\n\nUnstable isotopes decay at predictable rates, and the decay rates of different isotopes cover several orders of magnitude, so radioactive decay can be used to accurately date both recent events and events in past geologic eras. Radiometric mapping using ground and airborne gamma spectrometry can be used to map the concentration and distribution of radioisotopes near the Earth's surface, which is useful for mapping lithology and alteration.\n\nFluid motions occur in the magnetosphere, atmosphere, ocean, mantle and core. Even the mantle, though it has an enormous viscosity, flows like a fluid over long time intervals. This flow is reflected in phenomena such as isostasy, post-glacial rebound and mantle plumes. The mantle flow drives plate tectonics and the flow in the Earth's core drives the geodynamo.\n\nGeophysical fluid dynamics is a primary tool in physical oceanography and meteorology. The rotation of the Earth has profound effects on the Earth's fluid dynamics, often due to the Coriolis effect. In the atmosphere it gives rise to large-scale patterns like Rossby waves and determines the basic circulation patterns of storms. In the ocean they drive large-scale circulation patterns as well as Kelvin waves and Ekman spirals at the ocean surface. In the Earth's core, the circulation of the molten iron is structured by Taylor columns.\n\nWaves and other phenomena in the magnetosphere can be modeled using magnetohydrodynamics.\n\nThe physical properties of minerals must be understood to infer the composition of the Earth's interior from seismology, the geothermal gradient and other sources of information. Mineral physicists study the elastic properties of minerals; their high-pressure phase diagrams, melting points and equations of state at high pressure; and the rheological properties of rocks, or their ability to flow. Deformation of rocks by creep make flow possible, although over short times the rocks are brittle. The viscosity of rocks is affected by temperature and pressure, and in turn determines the rates at which tectonic plates move.\n\nWater is a very complex substance and its unique properties are essential for life. Its physical properties shape the hydrosphere and are an essential part of the water cycle and climate. Its thermodynamic properties determine evaporation and the thermal gradient in the atmosphere. The many types of precipitation involve a complex mixture of processes such as coalescence, supercooling and supersaturation. Some precipitated water becomes groundwater, and groundwater flow includes phenomena such as percolation, while the conductivity of water makes electrical and electromagnetic methods useful for tracking groundwater flow. Physical properties of water such as salinity have a large effect on its motion in the oceans.\n\nThe many phases of ice form the cryosphere and come in forms like ice sheets, glaciers, sea ice, freshwater ice, snow, and frozen ground (or permafrost).\n\nThe Earth is roughly spherical, but it bulges towards the Equator, so it is roughly in the shape of an ellipsoid (see Earth ellipsoid). This bulge is due to its rotation and is nearly consistent with an Earth in hydrostatic equilibrium. The detailed shape of the Earth, however, is also affected by the distribution of continents and ocean basins, and to some extent by the dynamics of the plates.\n\nEvidence from seismology, heat flow at the surface, and mineral physics is combined with the Earth's mass and moment of inertia to infer models of the Earth's interior – its composition, density, temperature, pressure. For example, the Earth's mean specific gravity () is far higher than the typical specific gravity of rocks at the surface (), implying that the deeper material is denser. This is also implied by its low moment of inertia (, compared to for a sphere of constant density). However, some of the density increase is compression under the enormous pressures inside the Earth. The effect of pressure can be calculated using the Adams–Williamson equation. The conclusion is that pressure alone cannot account for the increase in density. Instead, we know that the Earth's core is composed of an alloy of iron and other minerals.\n\nReconstructions of seismic waves in the deep interior of the Earth show that there are no S-waves in the outer core. This indicates that the outer core is liquid, because liquids cannot support shear. The outer core is liquid, and the motion of this highly conductive fluid generates the Earth's field. The inner core, however, is solid because of the enormous pressure.\n\nReconstruction of seismic reflections in the deep interior indicate some major discontinuities in seismic velocities that demarcate the major zones of the Earth: inner core, outer core, mantle, lithosphere and crust. The mantle itself is divided into the upper mantle, transition zone, lower mantle and \"D′′\" layer. Between the crust and the mantle is the Mohorovičić discontinuity.\n\nThe seismic model of the Earth does not by itself determine the composition of the layers. For a complete model of the Earth, mineral physics is needed to interpret seismic velocities in terms of composition. The mineral properties are temperature-dependent, so the geotherm must also be determined. This requires physical theory for thermal conduction and convection and the heat contribution of radioactive elements. The main model for the radial structure of the interior of the Earth is the preliminary reference Earth model (PREM). Some parts of this model have been updated by recent findings in mineral physics (see post-perovskite) and supplemented by seismic tomography. The mantle is mainly composed of silicates, and the boundaries between layers of the mantle are consistent with phase transitions.\n\nThe mantle acts as a solid for seismic waves, but under high pressures and temperatures it deforms so that over millions of years it acts like a liquid. This makes plate tectonics possible.\n\nIf a planet's magnetic field is strong enough, its interaction with the solar wind forms a magnetosphere. Early space probes mapped out the gross dimensions of the Earth's magnetic field, which extends about 10 Earth radii towards the Sun. The solar wind, a stream of charged particles, streams out and around the terrestrial magnetic field, and continues behind the magnetic tail, hundreds of Earth radii downstream. Inside the magnetosphere, there are relatively dense regions of solar wind particles called the Van Allen radiation belts.\n\nGeophysical measurements are generally at a particular time and place. Accurate measurements of position, along with earth deformation and gravity, are the province of geodesy. While geodesy and geophysics are separate fields, the two are so closely connected that many scientific organizations such as the American Geophysical Union, the Canadian Geophysical Union and the International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics encompass both.\n\nAbsolute positions are most frequently determined using the global positioning system (GPS). A three-dimensional position is calculated using messages from four or more visible satellites and referred to the 1980 Geodetic Reference System. An alternative, optical astronomy, combines astronomical coordinates and the local gravity vector to get geodetic coordinates. This method only provides the position in two coordinates and is more difficult to use than GPS. However, it is useful for measuring motions of the Earth such as nutation and Chandler wobble. Relative positions of two or more points can be determined using very-long-baseline interferometry.\n\nGravity measurements became part of geodesy because they were needed to related measurements at the surface of the Earth to the reference coordinate system. Gravity measurements on land can be made using gravimeters deployed either on the surface or in helicopter flyovers. Since the 1960s, the Earth's gravity field has been measured by analyzing the motion of satellites. Sea level can also be measured by satellites using radar altimetry, contributing to a more accurate geoid. In 2002, NASA launched the Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment (GRACE), wherein two twin satellites map variations in Earth's gravity field by making measurements of the distance between the two satellites using GPS and a microwave ranging system. Gravity variations detected by GRACE include those caused by changes in ocean currents; runoff and ground water depletion; melting ice sheets and glaciers.\n\nSatellites in space have made it possible to collect data from not only the visible light region, but in other areas of the electromagnetic spectrum. The planets can be characterized by their force fields: gravity and their magnetic fields, which are studied through geophysics and space physics.\n\nMeasuring the changes in acceleration experienced by spacecraft as they orbit has allowed fine details of the gravity fields of the planets to be mapped. For example, in the 1970s, the gravity field disturbances above lunar maria were measured through lunar orbiters, which led to the discovery of concentrations of mass, mascons, beneath the Imbrium, Serenitatis, Crisium, Nectaris and Humorum basins.\n\nGeophysics emerged as a separate discipline only in the 19th century, from the intersection of physical geography, geology, astronomy, meteorology, and physics. However, many geophysical phenomena – such as the Earth's magnetic field and earthquakes – have been investigated since the ancient era.\n\nThe magnetic compass existed in China back as far as the fourth century BC. It was used as much for feng shui as for navigation on land. It was not until good steel needles could be forged that compasses were used for navigation at sea; before that, they could not retain their magnetism long enough to be useful. The first mention of a compass in Europe was in 1190 AD.\n\nIn circa 240 BC, Eratosthenes of Cyrene deduced that the Earth was round and measured the circumference of the Earth, using trigonometry and the angle of the Sun at more than one latitude in Egypt. He developed a system of latitude and longitude.\n\nPerhaps the earliest contribution to seismology was the invention of a seismoscope by the prolific inventor Zhang Heng in 132 AD. This instrument was designed to drop a bronze ball from the mouth of a dragon into the mouth of a toad. By looking at which of eight toads had the ball, one could determine the direction of the earthquake. It was 1571 years before the first design for a seismoscope was published in Europe, by Jean de la Hautefeuille. It was never built.\n\nOne of the publications that marked the beginning of modern science was William Gilbert's \"De Magnete\" (1600), a report of a series of meticulous experiments in magnetism. Gilbert deduced that compasses point north because the Earth itself is magnetic.\n\nIn 1687 Isaac Newton published his \"Principia\", which not only laid the foundations for classical mechanics and gravitation but also explained a variety of geophysical phenomena such as the tides and the precession of the equinox.\n\nThe first seismometer, an instrument capable of keeping a continuous record of seismic activity, was built by James Forbes in 1844.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24769784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24769784", "title": "Ila (Hinduism)", "text": "Ila (Hinduism)\n\nIla () or Ilā () is an androgyne deity in Hindu mythology, known for their sex changes. As a man, he is known as Sudyumna and as a woman, is called Ilā. Ilā is considered the chief progenitor of the Lunar dynasty of Indian kings – also known as the Ailas (\"descendants of Ilā\").\n\nWhile many versions of the tale exist, Ila is usually described as a daughter or son of Vaivasvata Manu and thus the sibling of Ikshvaku, the founder of the Solar Dynasty. In versions in which Ila is born female, she changes into a male form by divine grace soon after her birth. After mistakenly entering a sacred grove as an adult, Ila is either cursed to change his/her gender every month or cursed to become a woman. As a woman, Ilā married Budha, the god of the planet Mercury and the son of the lunar deity Chandra (Soma), and bore him a son called Pururavas, the father of the Lunar dynasty. After the birth of Pururavas, Ilā is transformed into a man again and fathered three sons.\n\nIn the Vedas, Ilā is praised as Idā (), goddess of speech, and described as mother of Pururavas.\n\nThe tale of Ila's transformations is told in the Puranas as well as the Indian epic poems, the \"Ramayana\" and the \"Mahabharata\".\n\nAccording to the \"Linga Purana\" and the \"Mahabharata\", Ilā was born as the eldest daughter of Vaivasvata Manu, the progenitor of mankind, and his wife Shraddha. However, the parents desired a son and so prayed and performed austerities to propitiate the deities Mitra and Varuna, who changed Ilā's gender. The boy was named Sudyumma. The \"Bhagavata Purana\", the \"Devi-Bhagavata Purana\", the \"Kurma Purana\", the \"Harivamsa\", the \"Markandeya Purana\" and the \"Padma Purana\" (referred to as \"\"Bhagavata Purana\" et al. texts\" further) narrate a variant: Ila's parents could not have any children for a long time and approached the sage Agastya for a solution. The sage performed a yajna (fire sacrifice) dedicated to Mitra and Varuna to attain a son for the couple. Due to either an error in the ritual, or a failure to offer the appropriate sacrifice, Mitra and Varuna instead sent a daughter to the couple. In one version, the couple supplicated the deities, who transformed Ilā's gender. In another version, this transformation happens after the erroneous hymns are rectified and the son is called Ila. According to a variant, Shraddha wished for a daughter; Vashistha heeded her wish while performing the sacrifice and thus, a daughter was born. However, Manu desired a son so Vashistha appealed to Vishnu to change the gender of his daughter. Ilā was renamed Sudhyumna. The accounts describe Ila as either the eldest or the youngest child of Manu. As the child of Manu, Ila had nine brothers, the most notable was Ikshvaku, the founder of the Solar dynasty. As the son of Manu, Ila is the grandson of Surya. According to another account found in the \"Vayu Purana\" and the \"Brahmanda Purana\", Ilā was born female and remained female.\n\nIn the \"Ramayana\", Ila is born as a son of Kardama, the Prajapati born of the god Brahma's shadow. Ila's tale is told in the \"Uttara Kanda\" chapter of the Ramayana, while describing the greatness of the Ashvamedha – the horse sacrifice.\n\nIn the \"Ramayana\", the \"Linga Purana\" and the \"Mahabharata\", Ila grows to become the king of Bahlika. While hunting in a forest, Ila accidentally trespassed Sharavana (\"Forest of Reeds\"), the sacred grove of the goddess Parvati, the consort of the god Shiva. Upon entering Sharavana, all male beings except for Shiva, including trees and animals, are transformed into females. In the \"Ramayana\", even Shiva had assumed the form of a female to please the goddess. One legend tells that a female \"yakshini\" disguised herself as a deer and purposefully led Ila to the grove in order to save her husband from the king. The \"Linga Purana\" and the \"Mahabharata\" emphasize the sex change of Ila to be a deliberate act of Shiva to start the Lunar dynasty. The \"Bhagavata Purana\" et al. texts tell that Ila's entire entourage as well as his horse also changed their genders.\nAccording to the \"Ramayana\", when Ila approached Shiva for help, Shiva laughed with scorn but the compassionate Parvati reduced the curse and allowed Ila to switch genders every month. However, as a male he would not remember his life as a female and vice versa. While Ilā roamed the forest in her new form with her female attendants, Budha, the god of the planet Mercury and the son of the moon-god Chandra, noticed her. Although he had been practising asceticism, Ilā's beauty caused him to fall in love with her at first sight. Budha turned Ilā's attendants into \"Kimpurushas\" (hermaphrodite, lit. \"is it a man?\") and ordered them to run away, promising that they would find mates as Ilā had.\n\nIlā married Budha and spent an entire month with him and consummated the marriage. However, Ilā woke one morning as Sudyumna and remembered nothing about the past month. Budha told Ila that his retinue had been killed in a rain of stones and convinced Ila to stay with him for a year. During each month she spent as a woman, Ilā had good time with Budha. During each month as a man, Ila turned to pious ways and performed austerities under the guidance of Budha. In the ninth month, Ilā gave birth to Pururavas, who grew to become the first king of the Lunar dynasty. Then, as per the advice of Budha and Ila's father Kardama, Ila pleased Shiva with a horse sacrifice and Shiva restored Ila's masculinity permanently.\n\nAnother legend from the \"Vishnu Purana\" credits Vishnu of restoring Ilā's manhood as Sudyumma. The \"Bhagavata Purana\" et al. texts tell that after Pururavas's birth, the nine brothers of Ila – by horse sacrifice – or the sage Vasistha – the family priest of Ila – pleased Shiva to compel him to give the boon of alternate month manhood to Ila, turning him into a \"Kimpurusha\". The \"Linga Purana\" and the \"Mahabharata\" record the birth of Pururavas, but do not narrate the end of Ila's alternating gender condition. In fact, the \"Mahabharata\" describes Ilā to be the mother as well as the father of Pururavas. According to another account found in the \"Vayu Purana\" and the \"Brahmanda Purana\", Ilā was born female, married Budha, then was transformed into a male called Sudyumna. Sudyumna was then cursed by Parvati and transformed once again into a female, but became a man once again through Shiva's boon.\n\nIn almost all versions of the tale, Ila wants to live as a man, but in the \"Skanda Purana\", Ila desires to be a woman. The king Ela (Ila) entered Parvati's grove at Sahya mountain and became the woman Ilā. Ilā wished to remain a woman and serve Parvati (Gauri) and Ganga, the goddess of the Ganges river. However, the goddesses dissuaded him and told him that life as a woman was a curse and full of sorrow. Ilā bathed in a sacred pool and returned as Ela, bearded and deep-voiced.\n\nThe descendants of Ilā through Pururavas are known as Ailas after Ilā or as the Lunar Dynasty (Chandravamsa) due to their descent from Budha, the son of the moon-god Chandra. Most versions of tale call Ilā the father as well as the mother of the Ailas. The \"Linga Purana\" and the \"Mahabharata\", in which Sudyumma's curse does not end, state that as a male, Sudyumma also bore three sons named Utkala, Gaya and Vinatashva (also known as Haritashva and Vinata). The three sons ruled the kingdom for their father as Sudyumma was unable to do so himself due his alternating gender. The sons and their principalities are called the \"Saudyumna\"s. Utkala, Gaya, and Vinatashva ruled Utkala country, Gaya, and eastern regions including northern Kurus respectively. With the assistance of the family priest Vasistha, Sudyumma regained control of the entire kingdom. He was succeeded by Pururavas.\n\nIn the \"Matsya Purana\", Ila was disinherited after becoming a female or \"kimpurusha\". Ila's father passed his inheritance directly to Pururavas, ignoring the three sons Ila-Sudyumma bore as a male. Pururavas ruled from Pratishtanapura (present-day Allahabad), where Ila stayed with him. The \"Ramayana\" says that having returned to manhood, Ila ruled Pratishtana while his son Shashabindu ruled over Bahlika. The \"Devi-Bhagavata Purana\" tells that as a man Sudyumma governed the kingdom and as a woman remained indoors. His subjects were disturbed by his sex changes and did not respect him as they once had. When Pururavas attained adulthood, Sudyumma left his kingdom to Pururavas and went to the forest for penance. The sage Narada told Sudyumma a nine-syllable mantra, \"Navakshara\", which would please the Supreme Goddess. Pleased with his austerities, the Goddess emerged before Sudyumma, who was in his female form Ilā. Sudyumma praised the Goddess, who merged the king's soul with herself and thus, Ilā gained salvation.\n\nThe \"Bhagavata Purana\", the \"Devi-Bhagavata Purana\" and the \"Linga Purana\" declare that Ila ascended to heaven with both male and female anatomy. Ila is considered the chief progenitor of the Lunar Dynasty through Pururavas and of the Solar Dynasty through his brother Iksavaku and sons Utkala, Gaya, and Vinatashva. The marriage of Ilā, a descendant of the Sun, and Budha, the son of the Moon, is the first union of the solar and lunar races recorded in the scriptures.\n\nIn Vedic literature, Ilā is also known as Idā. Idā in the \"Rigveda\", signifies food and refreshment, personified as the goddess of speech. Ilā-Idā is also associated with Sarasvati, the goddess of knowledge. Ilā-Idā is mentioned a number of times in the \"Rigveda\", mostly in the hymns known as \"Āprīsūkta\"s. She is often mentioned along with Sarasvati and Bharati (or Mahi) and Pururavas is described as her son. Idā is the instructor of Manu, in performing ritual sacrifices. According to Sayana – a commentator on the Vedas – she presides over the Earth.\n\nIn the \"Shatapatha Brahmana\", Manu performed a fire-sacrifice in order to have children. Idā emerged from the sacrifice. She was claimed by Mitra-Varuna, but she lived with Manu and together they initiated the race of Manu. In this text, Idā is the goddess of the sacrificial meal. She is described as the \"Mānavi\" (daughter of Manu) and \"Ghṛtapadī\" (with the ghee-dripping foot) and she is represented by a cow, also known as Idā during a sacrifice. Pururavas is mentioned as the son of Ilā in the text.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12954780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12954780", "title": "Indian Ocean Research Group", "text": "Indian Ocean Research Group\n\nThe Indian Ocean Research Group Inc. (IORG) is an Indian Ocean Regional academic network. The key objective of IORG is to initiate a policy-oriented dialogue, in the true spirit of partnership, among governments, industries, NGOs and communities, towards realizing a shared, peaceful, stable and prosperous future for the Indian Ocean region. IORG is currently based at the University of Adelaide, and Curtin University, Australia, but members come from all across the world.\n\nThe key objective of the Indian Ocean Research Group Inc. is to initiate a policy-oriented dialogue, in the true spirit of partnership, among governments, industries, NGOs and communities, towards realizing a shared, peaceful, stable and prosperous future for the Indian Ocean region.\n\nThe Indian Ocean possesses considerable and often underrated geopolitical significance if only because of its operation as a highway. Given its relative location and the fact that it provides a relatively short and economic link between the Pacific and the Atlantic Oceans it is perhaps not surprising that, not only does the Ocean account for the transportation of the highest tonnage of commodities in the world, but that more than three-quarters of this is extra-regional trade. The uninhibited maintenance of Ocean routes and associated choke points is especially significant for the movement of commodities, especially oil, to Northeast Asia, Western Europe and North America.\n\nThe Indian Ocean is known to contain natural resources, the significance of which has yet to be fully determined. The Indian Ocean Marine Affairs Cooperation (IOMAC) grouping, for example, has already been involved for several years in issues associated with the management of the Indian Ocean tuna fishery. The exploitation of these resources, among others, in the context of the delimitation of exclusive economic zones requires careful monitoring and inter-state collaboration.\n\nMaintaining the integrity of the regional environment is one of the most important common interests of Indian Ocean states. Monitoring and managing the environmental impacts of human activity on the Ocean is essential to the maintenance of the living resources of the Ocean, for example. Environmental security issues are extremely diverse, ranging from, for example, an industrial partner's need to secure access to resources for investment purposes, to a specific community's need to secure access to healthy and sustainable sources of food, water and shelter. Fostering inter-state cooperation in order to maximize positive management to minimize environmental insecurity is an important policy goal.\n\nFor the maintenance of the peace and stability of the Indian Ocean Region, it is of the utmost importance that regional, coastal, island, and landlocked states become aware of the geopolitical orientations of one another and of Indian Ocean neighbours.\n\nThe description, collation and analysis of such orientations and their assistance in the maximization of regional transparency regarding regional state goals and intentions is among IORG's key objectives.\n\nIORG Inc. has seven principal objectives:\n\n1. To encourage research on geopolitical, economic, socio-cultural, environmental, scientific and technological issues relevant to the Indian Ocean Region.\n\n2. To promote dialogue on the peaceful uses and ecologically sustainable development of maritime resources based on the principle of Common Heritage.\n\n3. To foster interstate cooperation in the sustainable management of ocean resources and the peaceful resolution of maritime disputes.\n\n4. To ensure a holistic discourse on the human and environmental security of the Region among its states, peoples and communities.\n\n5. To contribute to an understanding of the causes as well as the effects of a wide range of non-traditional regional security threats.\n\n6. To facilitate information flow and discussion on international maritime regimes and the rights of states and local communities representing the Indian Ocean Region.\n\n7. To initiate informed policy debate among governments, NGOs, business groups, academics, and other stakeholders in the Indian Ocean Region on issues of common concern.\n\nBuilding an Indian Ocean Region (Australian Research Council funded project)\n\nARC Discovery Project, 2012 – 2015 Discovery (Project 120101166, $378,000) administered by the University of Adelaide.\n\nChief Investigators: Prof. Timothy Doyle (the University of Adelaide) ; Prof. Dennis Rumley (Curtin University); Prof. Sanjay Chaturvedi (Panjab University); Prof. Clive Schofield (the University of Wollongong); Prof. Mohamed Salih (the University of Rotterdam; and Prof. Kanishka Jayasuriya (the University of Adelaide).\n\nThe project critically analyses (re)emergent and contested regionalisms in an area of global geo-strategic political concern and one of great and increasing significance: the Indian Ocean Region. It documents current attempts at building pan and sub-regional identities and institutions – with particular reference to the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA), currently the most ambitious region-building venture. Non-traditional security approaches will be particularly investigated as means of building bridges and creating regional dialogues. Finally, the project analyses how various notions of regionalism can be used to facilitate the process of ‘building’ an Indian Ocean region.\n\nAims of the Research:\n\n• Initiate research on geopolitical, economic, socio-cultural, environmental, scientific and technological issues relevant to the Indian Ocean Region (IOR)\n\n• Promote dialogue on the peaceful uses and ecologically sustainable development of maritime resources based on the principle of common heritage\n\n• Foster inter-state cooperation on the sustainable management of ocean resources and the peaceful resolution of maritime disputes\n\n• Ensure a holistic discourse on the human and environmental security of IOR among its states, peoples and communities\n\n• Contribute to an understanding of the causes as well as the effects of a wide range of non-traditional IOR security threats, specifically including the \"Blue Economy\" agenda\n\n• Facilitate information flow and discussion on international maritime regimes and the rights of states and local communities representing the IOR\n\n• Encourage informed policy debate among governments, NGOs, business groups, academics and other stakeholders in the IOR on issues of common concern.\n\nResearch Themes:\n\n1 Constructing Indian Ocean Regionalism\n\n2 Traditional security in the Indian Ocean Region\n\n3 Human Security\n\n4 Economic and Resource Security\n\n5 Maritime Security\n\n6 Environmental Security\n\nIndian Ocean Dialogue 2015 -Perth, Australia\n\nProfessors Dennis Rumley and Tim Doyle attended the second Indian Ocean Dialogue in Perth, Australia. The Indian Ocean Dialogue is an annual meeting involving representatives from each of the twenty Indian Ocean Rim Association member states as well as the six dialogue partners. Representatives include government officials, experts from academia and research institutions, and accredited observers. The Indian Ocean Dialogue 2015 was organised by Future Directions International, and the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (Government of Australia), with support from the Indian Ocean Rim Association Secretariat and the Australian Department of Immigration and Border Protection.\n\nThe key themes of this two-day event were:\n\n• combatting transnational crime\n\n• maritime security and defence cooperation\n\n• regional cooperation in search and rescue operations\n\n• the Blue Economy as a driver of economic growth.\n\nMeeting of Indian Ocean Rim Association Academic Group (IORAG) in Jakarta, August 2015: \"Developing a Research Programme for IORAG\"\n\nProfs. Tim Doyle and Dennis Rumley were both invited to attend the National Working Committee of The Indian Ocean Rim Academic Group (IORAG) held in Jakara, Indonesia on 14 August. Tim Doyle was invited as the current Chair of IORAG and DFAT Academic Focal Point for IORA to discuss preparations and arrangements with Indonesian officials for Ministerial and Senior Officials Meetings in Padang, Indonesia in October, which he will be attending as part of the Australian Government delegation. Dennis Rumley was invited to assist in constructing the agenda for the October 2015 meeting in which the leadership of IORAG was transferred from Australia to Indonesia.\n\nTim Doyle presented: ‘Academic Diplomacy and Region-Building.’ Presentation at the National Working Committee of The Indian Ocean Rim Academic Group (IORAG), Jakarta, Indonesia, 14 August 2015.\n\nDennis Rumley presented: ‘IORAG Reform and Futures’ Presentation at the National Working Committee of The Indian Ocean Rim Academic Group (IORAG), Jakarta, Indonesia, 14 August 2015.\n\n2014\n\nIn 2014, the Australia-Asia-Pacific Institute organized a Conference on Indian Ocean Futures, attracting a wide range of scholars from around the world. The special edition, Proceedings from the Australia-Asia-Pacific Conference on Indian Ocean Futures 2014 was published in the June 2015 edition of the \"Journal of the Indian Ocean\" Region. This special edition covers a broad range of themes, including: green urbanism in the Indian Ocean Region; Sino-Chinese rivalry in the IOR; adaptation to climate change issues; maritime security off the coast of East Africa; and a cultural piece about cultural futures in the IOR.\n\nEarlier\n\n• International Conference on Indian Ocean Regionalism: Reinvigorating IOR-ARC. Jointly hosted by the Indian Council for World Affairs (ICWA) and IORG. 5–6 May 2011, New Delhi.\n\n• Fourth Annual Conference of IORG on Marine Biodiversity and Fisheries in the Indian Ocean Region: Opportunities and Threats in Oman. 18 February to 20 February 2007\n\n• Third Annual Conference of IORG in collaboration with the Maritime Institute of Malaysia (MIMA) in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 12–14 July 2005\n\n• International Conference on Energy Security in the Indian Ocean. February 15–16, 2004.\n\n• The Indian Ocean in a Globalizing World: Critical Perspectives on the 21st century. 18–22 November 2002.\n\nBooks:\n\nChaturvedi, S. and Doyle, T. (2015) \"Climate Terror: A Critical Geopolitics of Climate Change\", New Securities\n\nSeries, edited by Stuart Croft, Warwick University (Palgrave Macmillan: UK and New York).\n\nDoyle, R., McEachern, D., and MacGregor, S. (2015). \"Environment and Politics,\" fourth edition, London and New York: Routledge\n\nDoherty, B., and Doyle, T. (2014) \"Environmentalism, Resistance and Solidarity\", Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan\n\nDoyle, T. and MacGregor, S. eds. (2014) \"Environmental Movements around the World\", Santa Barbara: Praeger\n\nDoyle, T. and Riseley, eds. (2008) \"Crucible for Survival: Environmental Security and Justice in the Indian Ocean Region\", New Jersey: Rutgers University Press\n\nRumley, D., ed. (2013), \"The Indian Ocean Region: Security, Stability and Sustainability in the 21st Century\",\n\nMelbourne: Australia India Institute, 126pp.\n\nRumley, D., ed. (2015), \"The Political Economy of Indian Ocean Maritime Africa,\" New Delhi: Pentagon Press,\n\n322pp.\n\nRumley, D. and Doyle, T. (2015) \"Indian Ocean Regionalisms\", (eds) (Routledge: London).\n\nRumley, D. and Chaturvedi S. (eds.) (2015) \"Geopolitical Orientations, Regionalism and Security in the\"\n\n\"Indian Ocean, London\": Routledge (due in May 2015)\n\nRumley, D. and Chaturvedi S. (eds.) (2015) \"Energy Security and the Indian Ocean Region\", London: Routledge. (research theme 4)Rumley, D. and Chaturvedi, S., and Sakhuja, V., eds. (2009) \"Fisheries Exploitation in the Indian Ocean: Threats and Opportunities\", Singapore: Institute of Southeast Asian Studies\n\nScholarly Book Chapters:\n\nDoyle, T. and Rumley, D. (2015) 'Africa and contested constructions of the Indian Ocean Region', in Rumley, D.,\n\ned., \"The Political Economy of Indian Ocean Maritime Africa\", New Delhi: Pentagon Press, pp. 91–100.\n\nDoyle, T. and Alfonsi, A. (2014) ‘Does an open-free market economy make Australia more or less secure in a\n\nglobalised world?,’ in \"Issues in Australian Foreign Policy\", edited by Daniel Baldino et al., Oxford University Press.\n\nDoyle, T. J. (2012) ‘Building Indian Ocean Regionalisms: Research Agendas for the Future’, The Future of the\n\nIndian Ocean Rim – Association for Regional Co-operation, ed. Vijay Sakuja, Indian Council of World Affairs, and\n\nRoutledge, New Delhi.\n\nDoyle, T. And Chaturvedi, S. (2011) ‘Climate Refuges and Security: Conceptualizations, Categories and\n\nContestations,’ in Dryzek, J., Norgaard, R., and Schlosberg, D., \"Oxford Handbook of Climate Change and Society\",\n\nOxford University Press: UK.\n\nSchofield, C.H. (2014), ‘Securing the World’s most Dangerous Strait?: The Bab al-Mandeb and Gulf of Aden’,\n\npp. 268–298 in Oral, N. (ed.), \"Safety, Security and Environmental Protection in Straits Used in International\"\n\n\"Navigation: Is International Law Meeting the Challenge?\", (Leiden/Boston: Martinus Nijhoff).\n\nChaturvedi, S. “Rescaling Indian Ocean Regionalism in the Era of Climate Change: Perspectives on and\n\nfrom the Bay of Bengal”, in Vijay Sakhuja (ed.) \"Reinvigorating IOR-ARC\", New Delhi: Pentagon Press, 2011.\n\nJayasuriya K (2013) Regulatory State with Dirigiste Characteristics: Variegated Pathways of Regulatory\n\nGovernance. In N. Dubash and B. Morgan (eds), \"The Rise of the Regulatory state of the Global South\". Oxford:\n\nOxford University Press\n\nRefereed Journal Articles:\n\nDoyle, T. and Seal, G. (2015) ‘Indian Ocean Futures: New Partnerships, Alliances, and Academic Diplomacy,’\n\n\"Journal of the Indian Ocean Region\", vol. 11, no. 1, June.\n\nDoyle, T. (2014) ‘The Coming Together of Geoeconomics and Geosecurities in The Indian Ocean Region? \"Journal\"\n\n\"of the Indian Ocean Region\" Vol. 10, no. 2 December.\n\nDoyle, T. (2013) ‘Africa and the Indian Ocean Region,’ \"Journal of the Indian Ocean Region,\" vol 9, issue 2, 131-\n\n133.\n\nRumley, D, Doyle, T. J. and Chaturvedi, S (2012) ‘Securing the Indian Ocean? Competing Regional Security\n\nConstructions’, \"Journal of the Indian Ocean Region\", vol. 8, issue 1, June.\n\nRyan, B.J. (2013) ‘Zones and Routes: Securing a Western Indian Ocean,’ \"Journal of the Indian Ocean Pacific\"\n\n\"Region\", 9 (2): 173-188.\n\nRyan, B.J. (2013) ‘Reasonable Force: The Emergence of Global Policing Power,’ \"Review of International Studies\",\n\n39 (2): 435-457.\n\nSchofield, C.H. (2014) ‘Arming Merchant Vessels: Enhancing or Imperilling Maritime Safety and Security’,\n\n\"Korean Journal of International and Comparative Law\", Vol.2, no.1: 46-66.\n\nSchofield, C.H., Telesetsky, A. and Lee, S. (2013) ‘A Tribunal Navigating Complex Waters Implications of the Bay\n\nof Bengal Case’, \"Ocean Development and International Law\", Vol.44, no.4: 363-388.\n\nSchofield, C.H. and Telesetsky, A. (2012) ‘Grey Clouds or Clearer Skies Ahead? Implications of the Bay of Bengal\n\nCase’, \"American Society of International Law\", Law of the Sea Reports, Vol.III (2012), no.1.\n\nLin, S. and Schofield C.H. (2014) ‘Lessons from the Bay of Bengal ITLOS Case: Stepping Offshore for a “Deeper”\n\nMaritime Political Geography’, Commentary, \"The Geographical Journal,\" Vol.180, no.3 (September): 260-264.\n\nChaturvedi, S. and Doyle, T, “Geopolitics of Fear and the Emergence of ‘Climate Refugees’: Imaginative\n\nGeographies of Climate Change and Displacements in Bangladesh’, \"Journal of the Indian Ocean Region\", 6(2), 2011:\n\n206-222. (Co-authored with Timothy Doyle)\n\n"}
{"id": "19961882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19961882", "title": "James A. Baker Jr.", "text": "James A. Baker Jr.\n\nJames Addison Baker Jr. (3 November 1892 – 21 May 1973) was an American attorney, banker, and real estate developer in Houston, Texas. He was the third in a succession of men named James Addison Baker, all of whom were attorneys for Baker Botts or its antecedents. His son is James Addison Baker III, former President's Chief of Staff and former cabinet secretary.\n\nJames A. Baker Jr. was born on 3 November 1892 to Captain James A. Baker and Alice Graham Baker in Houston, Texas. In 1911, Baker graduated from The Hill School, and enrolled at Princeton University in the fall.\n\nBaker interrupted his law classes at the University of Texas to volunteer for World War I. He reported to Quartermaster School in San Antonio commissioned as a lieutenant, and began his tour with the 359th Infantry Division on the western front in July 1918. His company fought from the trenches during the Battle of Saint-Mihiel in the fall. After a two-week break from the front, his division took over for the 5th Division and endured the trenches for seventy-five days straight. He was the only officer in his unit to survive without being wounded, and he was promoted to Captain while being cited for valor. He joined the occupation forces in Germany after the cessation of hostilities. The Army ordered him discharged and he reached American soil on 4 April 1919.\n\nBaker and his father developed Broadacres, an exclusive subdivision sited north of Rice University. At its conception in 19221923, this tract was surrounded by non-commercial uses. In addition to the university, Hermann Park, the land for the future Museum of Fine Arts were in proximity. Two other wealthy subdivisions, Southampton and Shadyside, buffered Broadacres from commercial development. The Bakers sold seventeen large lots to investors who also advanced $150,000 to the development for capital improvements. Baker took over the management of the subdivision, while Herbert A. Kipp platted and engineered the twenty-five lot site. Rice architect William Ward Watkin laid out the landscaping and designed a new Spanish-Mediterranean home for Captain Baker. When the infrastructure for Broadacres was completed by 24 September 1924, Baker announced that the assessments to lot owners would be reduced because the final bills came in below estimated costs. Though his parents resided at Broadacres, Baker developed a lot in a neighboring subdivision on Poor Farm Road in 1926.\n\nBaker married Bonner Means on 4 August 1917. The two met while they were attending the University of Texas and they engaged on 9 May 1917. As Baker anticipated his military orders, the couple accelerated their wedding schedule and scaled down the event. After the marriage, they honeymooned at Mackinac Island, Michigan. From 1927, the Bakers resided at their house on the curve on Poor Farm Road (Bissonnet Street) in the Turner Addition. Their neighbors included relatives and friends: Browne and Adelaide Lovett Baker, Malcolm Lovett, and William Kirkland. The Bakers lived at this address for the rest of their married lives.\n\nHis father, also named James Addison Baker, was a partner of Baker, Botts and Baker and other antecedent of Baker Botts. James Addison Baker Jr. became a partner after ten years with the firm. Today, the law firm is called Baker Botts, a major United States-based international law firm of around 800 attorneys.\n\nHis son, James A. Baker III, is the political figure especially known from the Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush administrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "13361521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13361521", "title": "L-shell", "text": "L-shell\n\nThe L-shell, L-value, or McIlwain L-parameter (after Carl E. McIlwain) is a parameter describing a particular set of planetary magnetic field lines. Colloquially, L-value often describes the set of magnetic field lines which cross the Earth's magnetic equator at a number of Earth-radii equal to the L-value. For example, \"formula_1\" describes the set of the Earth's magnetic field lines which cross the Earth's magnetic equator two earth radii from the center of the Earth. L-shell parameters can also describe the magnetic fields of other planets. In such cases, the parameter is renormalized for that planet's radius and magnetic field model.\n\nAlthough L-value is formally defined in terms of the Earth's true instantaneous magnetic field (or a high-order model like IGRF), it is often used to give a general picture of magnetic phenomena near the Earth, in which case it can be approximated using the dipole model of the Earth's magnetic field.\n\nThe motions of low-energy charged particles in the Earth's magnetic field (or in any nearly-dipolar magnetic field) can be usefully described in terms of McIlwain's \"(B,L)\"  coordinates, the first of which, \"B\"  is just the magnitude (or length) of the magnetic field vector.\nThis description is most valuable when the gyroradius of the charged particle orbit is small compared to the spatial scale for changes in the field. Then a charged particle will basically follow a helical path orbiting the local field line. In a local coordinate system \"{x,y,z}\"  where \"z\"  is along the field, the transverse motion will be nearly a circle, orbiting the \"guiding center\", that is the center of the orbit or the local \"B\"  line, with the gyroradius and frequency characteristic of cyclotron motion for the field strength, while the simultaneous motion along \"z\"  will be at nearly uniform velocity, since the component of the Lorentz force along the field line is zero.\n\nAt the next level of approximation, as the particle orbits and moves along the field line, along which the field changes slowly, the radius of the orbit changes so as to keep the magnetic flux enclosed by the orbit constant. Since the Lorentz force is strictly perpendicular to the velocity, it cannot change the energy of a charged particle moving in it. Thus the particle's kinetic energy remains constant. Then so also must its speed be constant. Then it can be shown that the particle's velocity parallel to the local field must decrease if the field is increasing along its \"z\"  motion, and increase if the field decreases, while the components of the velocity transverse to the field increase or decrease so as to keep the magnitude of the total velocity constant. Conservation of energy prevents the transverse velocity from increasing without limit, and eventually the longitudinal component of the velocity becomes zero, while the pitch angle, of the particle with respect to the field line, becomes 90°. Then the longitudinal motion is stopped and reversed, and the particle is reflected back towards regions of weaker field, the guiding center now retracing its previous motion along the field line, with the particle's transverse velocity decreasing and its longitudinal velocity increasing.\n\nIn the (approximately) dipole field of the Earth, the magnitude of the field is greatest near the magnetic poles, and least near the magnetic Equator. Thus after the particle crosses the Equator, it will again encounter regions of increasing field, until it once again stops at the magnetic mirror point, on the opposite side of the Equator. The result is that, as the particle orbits its guiding center on the field line, it bounces back and forth between the north mirror point and the south mirror point, remaining approximately on the same field line. The particle is therefore endlessly trapped, and cannot escape from the region of the Earth. Particles with too-small pitch angles may strike the top of the atmosphere if they are not mirrored before their field line reaches too close to the Earth, in which case they will eventually be scattered by atoms in the air, lose energy, and be lost from the belts.\n\nHowever, for particles which mirror at safe altitudes, (in yet a further level of approximation) the fact that the field generally increases towards the center of the Earth means that the curvature on the side of the orbit nearest the Earth is somewhat greater than on the opposite side, so that the orbit has a slightly non-circular, with a (prolate) cycloidal shape, and the guiding center slowly moves perpendicular both to the field line and to the radial direction. The guiding center of the cyclotron orbit, instead of moving exactly along the field line, therefore drifts slowly east or west (depending on the sign of the charge of the particle), and the local field line connecting the two mirror points at any moment, slowly sweeps out a surface connecting them as it moves in longitude. Eventually the particle will drift entirely around the Earth, and the surface will be closed upon itself. These drift surfaces, nested like the skin of an onion, are the surfaces of constant \"L\"  in the McIlwain coordinate system. They apply not only for a perfect dipole field, but also for fields that are approximately dipolar. For a given particle, as long as only the Lorentz force is involved, \"B\"  and \"L\"  remain constant and particles can be trapped indefinitely. Use of \"(B,L)\"  coordinates provides us with a way of mapping the real, non-dipolar terrestrial or planetary field into coordinates that behave essentially like those of a perfect dipole. The \"L\"  parameter is traditionally labeled in Earth-radii, of the point where the shell crosses the magnetic Equator, of the equivalent dipole. \"B\"  is measured in gauss.\n\nIn a centered dipole magnetic field model, the path along a given L shell can be described as\n\nformula_2\n\nwhere formula_3 is the radial distance (in earth radii) to a point on the line, formula_4 is its geomagnetic latitude, and formula_5 is the L-shell of interest.\n\nFor the Earth, L-shells uniquely define regions of particular geophysical interest. Certain physical phenomena occur in the ionosphere and magnetosphere at characteristic L-shells. For instance, auroral light displays are most common around L=6, can reach L=4 during moderate disturbances, and during the most severe geomagnetic storms, may approach L=2. The Van Allen radiation belts roughly correspond to L=1.5-2.5, and L=4-6. The plasmapause is typically around L=5.\n\nThe Jovian magnetic field is the strongest planetary field in the solar system. Its magnetic field traps electrons with energies greater than 500 MeV The characteristic L-shells are L=6, where electron distribution undergoes a marked hardening (increase of energy), and L=20-50, where the electron energy decreases to the VHF regime and the magnetosphere eventually gives way to the solar wind. Because Jupiter's trapped electrons contain so much energy, they more easily diffuse across L-shells than trapped electrons in Earth's magnetic field. One consequence of this is a more continuous and smoothly-varying radio-spectrum emitted by trapped electrons in gyro-resonance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28620092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28620092", "title": "List of Newfoundland hurricanes", "text": "List of Newfoundland hurricanes\n\nThere have been 25 recorded Newfoundland hurricanes, or Atlantic hurricanes that have made a direct landfall as a tropical or subtropical cyclone on the island of Newfoundland since official records began in 1851. Significant hurricanes such as the 1775 Newfoundland hurricane are also included on this list, even though they occurred prior to the start of official record-keeping.\n\n\"Note: Hurricanes that made landfall in Newfoundland as a post-tropical cyclone are excluded from this list.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6147388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6147388", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Wigtown and Stewartry", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Wigtown and Stewartry\n\nThe following is a list of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in the Wigtown and Stewartry Area of Search. For other areas, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "42605477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42605477", "title": "List of anti-nuclear advocates in Germany", "text": "List of anti-nuclear advocates in Germany\n\nThis is a list of notable individuals who have publicly expressed reservations about nuclear power, nuclear weapons, and/or nuclear waste disposal in Germany. Many of these people have received the Nuclear-Free Future Award.\n"}
{"id": "40242230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40242230", "title": "List of extreme temperatures in Italy", "text": "List of extreme temperatures in Italy\n\nThe following table lists the highest and lowest temperatures recorded in each region in Italy, in both Celsius and Fahrenheit.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Also on earlier date or dates in that region or city.\n\n"}
{"id": "52904532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52904532", "title": "List of first ascents in the Cordillera Blanca", "text": "List of first ascents in the Cordillera Blanca\n\nThe following list summarizes notable first ascents of mountains and peaks in the Cordillera Blanca in the Andes of Ancash, Peru, in chronological order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9019705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9019705", "title": "List of fuchsia diseases", "text": "List of fuchsia diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of fuchsias (\"Fuchsia × hybrida\").\n\n"}
{"id": "31301895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31301895", "title": "List of largest seeds", "text": "List of largest seeds\n\nThe largest seed in the world is the coco de mer, the seed of a palm tree. It can reach about 12 inches (30 cm) long, and weigh up to 40 pounds (18 kg). The coco de mer, a giant, dark brown seed, has been protected by the government of the Seychelles because of its rarity. The coco de mer tree can grow up to 100 feet (31 m) tall, with leaves measuring 20 ft (6 m) long and 12 feet (3.6 m) wide.\n\nOther recorded largest seeds include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30996372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30996372", "title": "List of longest rivers of the United States (by main stem)", "text": "List of longest rivers of the United States (by main stem)\n\nThe main stems of 38 rivers in the United States are at least long. The main stem is \"the primary downstream segment of a river, as contrasted to its tributaries\". The United States Geological Survey (USGS) defines a main-stem segment by listing coordinates for its two end points, called the \"source\" and the \"mouth\". Well-known rivers like the Atchafalaya, Willamette, and Susquehanna are not included in this list because their main stems are shorter than 500 miles.\n\nSeven rivers in this list cross or form international boundaries. Two—the Yukon and Columbia rivers—begin in Canada and flow into the United States. Three—the Milk and Saint Lawrence rivers and the Red River of the North—begin in the United States and flow into Canada. Of these, only the Milk River crosses the international border twice, leaving and then re-entering the United States. Two rivers, the Colorado and the Rio Grande, begin in the United States and flow into or form a border with Mexico. In addition, the drainage basins of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers extend into Canada, and the basin of the Gila River extends into Mexico.\n\nSources report hydrological quantities with varied precision. Biologist and author Ruth Patrick, describing a table of high-discharge U.S. rivers, wrote that data on discharge, drainage area, and length varied widely among authors whose works she consulted. \"It seems,\" she said, \"that the wisest course is to regard data tables such as the present one as showing the general ranks of rivers, and not to place too much importance on minor (10–20%) differences in figures.\"\n\nThe primary source for watershed and discharge data in the table below is \"Rivers of North America\". Conflicting data from other sources, if the difference is greater than 10 percent, is reported in the notes. Discharge refers to the flow at the mouth. In the \"States, provinces, and image\" column, the superscripts \"s\" and \"m\" indicate \"source\" and \"mouth\". Non-U.S. states appear in italics. Except in the \"States, provinces, and image\" column, abbreviations are as follows: \"km\" for \"kilometer\", \"mi\" for \"mile\", \"s\" for \"second\", \"m\" for \"meter\", and \"ft\" for \"foot\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30860237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30860237", "title": "List of marine aquarium plant species", "text": "List of marine aquarium plant species\n\nAquatic plants are used to give the aquarium a natural appearance, oxygenate the water, and provide habitat for fish, especially fry (babies) and for invertebrates. Some aquarium fish and invertebrates also eat live plants. Hobby aquarists use aquatic plants for aquascaping.\n\nMarine algae are also included in this list for convenience, despite the fact that many species are technically classified as protists, not plants.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7006794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7006794", "title": "List of national parks of Chile", "text": "List of national parks of Chile\n\nThere are 36 national parks in Chile covering a total area of 9,141,200 hectares.\n\n"}
{"id": "38497573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38497573", "title": "List of nature centers in Indiana", "text": "List of nature centers in Indiana\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of Indiana.\n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2944400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2944400", "title": "List of northernmost items", "text": "List of northernmost items\n\nThis is a list of various northernmost things on earth.\n\nSee also: Northernmost settlements, Northernmost cities and towns\n\nThese lists only contain naturally occurring plants and trees, excluding individuals planted by humans.\n\n"}
{"id": "18151840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18151840", "title": "List of rivers of Panama", "text": "List of rivers of Panama\n\nThis is a list of rivers in Panama.\n\nThis list is arranged by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34588428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34588428", "title": "List of snowdrop gardens", "text": "List of snowdrop gardens\n\nSnowdrops (species of \"Galanthus\") are popular late winter or early spring flowers which are celebrated as a sign of spring and can attract large numbers of visitors to places where they are growing. The reason for their popularity is that snowdrops can form impressive carpets of white in areas where they are native or have been naturalised. Most 'Snowdrop Gardens' will have the common snowdrop, \"Galanthus nivalis\", but some have more unusual snowdrops, some which may be unique to the garden that they are growing in. The rarest may only survive in that garden due to the conditions and environment.\n\nA galanthophile is a snowdrop enthusiast. They may be authors of snowdrop books, cultivate snowdrops, collect snowdrops and have displays of them for personal and public display. Well known galanthophiles are the horticulturalist E. A. Bowles and the nurseryman James Allen. Modern day galanthophiles range from teenagers to the elderly, who continue under the same principles but also visit many of the gardens each year to see the displays of snowdrops as part of their hobby.\nThe UK-based Cottage Garden Society has a snowdrop group that visits snowdrop gardens every year.\n\nThere are a number of snowdrop gardens in England, Wales, Scotland, and Ireland. Sixty gardens took part in Scotland's first Snowdrop Festival (1 Feb–11 March 2007). Several gardens in England open during snowdrop season for the National Gardens Scheme (NGS) (see their website for up-to-date details).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1199303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1199303", "title": "Lotus tree", "text": "Lotus tree\n\nThe lotus tree () is a plant that is referred to in stories from Greek and Roman mythology.\n\nThe lotus tree is mentioned in Homer's \"Odyssey\" as bearing a fruit that caused a pleasant drowsiness, and which was said to be the only food of an island people called the Lotophagi or Lotus-eaters. When they ate of the lotus tree they would forget their friends and homes and would lose their desire to return to their native land in favor of living in idleness. Botanical candidates for the lotus tree include the date-plum (\"Diospyros lotus\"), which is a sub-evergreen tree native to Africa that grows to about 25 feet bearing yellowish green flowers, as well as \"Ziziphus lotus\", a plant with an edible fruit closely related to the jujube, native to North Africa and the islands in the Gulf of Gabes such as Jerba.\n\nIn Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\", the nymph Lotis was the beautiful daughter of Neptune, the god of water and the sea. In order to flee the violent attention of Priapus, she invoked the assistance of the gods, who answered her prayers by turning her into a lotus tree.\n\nThe Book of Job has two lines (), with the Hebrew word צֶאֱלִים (\"tse'elim\"), which appears nowhere else in the Bible. A common translation has been \"lotus trees\" since the publication of the Revised Version. However it is sometimes rendered simply as \"shady trees\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7075186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7075186", "title": "Mere (lake)", "text": "Mere (lake)\n\nMere in English refers to a lake that is broad in relation to its depth, e.g. Martin Mere. A significant effect of its shallow depth is that for all or most of the time, it has no thermocline.\n\nThe word \"mere\" is recorded in Old English as \"mere\" ″sea, lake″, corresponding to Old Saxon \"meri\", Old Low Franconian \"*meri\" (Dutch \"meer\" ″lake, pool″, Picard \"mer\" ″pool, lake″, Northern French toponymic element \"-mer\"), Old High German \"mari\" / \"meri\" (German \"Meer\" ″sea″), Goth. \"mari-\", \"marei\", Old Norse \"marr\" ″sea″ (Norwegian \"mar\" ″sea″, Shetland Norn \"mar\" ″mer, deep water fishing qarea″, Faroese \"marrur\" ″mud, sludge″, Swedish place name element \"mar-\", French \"mare\" ″pool, pond″). They derive from reconstituted Proto-Germanic \"*mari\", itself from Indo-European \"*mori\", the same root as \"marsh\" and \"moor\". The Indo-European root \"*mori\" gave also birth to similar words in the other European languages : Latin \"mare\" ″sea″ (Italian \"mare\", Spanish \"mar\", French \"mer\"), Old Celtic \"*mori\" ″sea″ (Gaulish \"mori-\", \"more\", Irish \"muir\", Welsh \"môr\", Breton \"mor\"), Old Slavic \"morje\".\n\nThe word once included the sea or an arm of the sea in its range of meaning but this marine usage is now obsolete (OED). It is a poetical or dialect word meaning a sheet of standing water, a lake or a pond (OED). The OED's fourth definition (\"A marsh, a fen.\") includes wetland such as fen amongst usages of the word which is reflected in the lexicographers' recording of it. In a quotation from the year 598, mere is contrasted against moss (bog) and field against fen. The OED quotation from 1609 does not say what a mere is, except that it looks black. In 1629 mere and marsh were becoming interchangeable but in 1876 mere was 'heard, at times, applied to ground permanently under water': in other words, a very shallow lake.\nThe online edition of the OED's quoted examples relate to:\n\nWhere land similar to that of Martin Mere, gently undulating glacial till, becomes flooded and develops fen and bog, the remnants of the original mere remain until the whole is filled with peat. This can be delayed where the mere is fed by lime-rich water from chalk or limestone upland and a significant proportion of the outflow from the mere takes the form of evaporation. In these circumstances, the lime (typically calcium carbonate) is deposited on the peaty bed and inhibits plant growth therefore peat formation. A typical feature of these meres is that they are alongside a river rather than having the river flowing through them. In this way, the mere is replenished by seepage from the bed of the lime-rich river, through the river's natural levée, or by winter floods. The water of the mere is then static through the summer, when the concentration of the calcium carbonate rises until it is precipitated on the bed of the mere.\n\nEven quite shallow lake water can develop a thermocline in the short term but where there is a moderately windy climate, the circulation caused by wind drift is sufficient to break this up. (The surface is blown down-wind in a seiche and a return current passes either near the bottom or just above the thermocline if that is present at a sufficient depth.) This means that the bed of the shallow mere is aerated and bottom-feeding fish and wildfowl can survive, providing a livelihood for people around. Expressed more technically, the mere consists entirely of the epilimnion. This is quite unlike Windermere where in summer, there is a sharp thermocline at a depth of 9 to 15 metres, well above the maximum depth of 60 metres or so. (M&W p36)\n\nAt first sight, the defining feature of a mere is its breadth in relation to its shallow depth. This means that it has a large surface in proportion to the volume of water it contains. However, there is a limiting depth beyond which a lake does not behave as a mere since the sun does not warm the deeper water and the wind does not mix it. Here, a thermocline develops but where the limiting dimensions lie is influenced by the sunniness and windiness of the site and the murkiness of the water. This last usually depends on how eutrophic (rich in plant nutrients) the water is. Nonetheless, in general, with the enlargement of the extent of a mere, the depth has to become proportionately less if it is to behave as a mere.\n\n\nThere are many examples in Cheshire, including:\n\nMany examples also occur in north Shropshire, especially around the town of Ellesmere, such as:\n\nThe Fens of eastern England, as well as fen, lowland moor (bog) and other habitats included a number of meres. As at Martin Mere in Lancashire, when the fens were being drained to convert the land to pasture and arable agriculture, the meres went too but some are easily traced owing to the characteristic soil. For the reasons given above, it is rich in both calcium carbonate and humus. On the ground, its paleness stands out against the surrounding black, humic soils and on the soil map, the former meres show as patches of the Willingham soil association, code number 372 (Soil Map).\n\nApart from those drained in the medieval period, they are shown in Saxton's map of the counties (as they were in his time) of Cambridgeshire and Huntingdonshire. The following is a list of known meres of the eastern English Fenland with their grid references.\n\nSaxton's meres are named as:\nIn Jonas Moor's 'map of the Great Levell of the Fenns' of 1720, though Trundle Mere is not named, the above are all but one, included with the addition of:\nIn the interval, Stretham Mere had gone and the main features of the modern drainage pattern had appeared.\n\nUgg, Ramsey and Benwick meres do not show in the soil map. Others which do but which appear to have been drained before Saxton's mapping in 1576, are at:\nThe last appears to be the \"mare 'Wide' vocatum\" of Robert of Swaffham's version of the Hereward story (Chapter XXVI). If it is, it will have been in existence in the 1070s, when the events of the story took place.\n\nMeres similar to those of the English Fens but more numerous and extensive, used to exist in the Netherlands, particularly in Holland. See Haarlemmermeer, for example. However, the Dutch word \"meer\" is used more generally than the English 'mere'. It means 'lake', as also seen in the name lakes containing \"meer\" in Northern Germany, e.g. Steinhuder Meer. When the Zuider Zee was enclosed and its salt water became fresh, it changed its status from a sea (\"zee\") to being known as the IJsselmeer, the lake into which the River IJssel flows.\n\n"}
{"id": "55599618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55599618", "title": "Metarauchite", "text": "Metarauchite\n\nMetarauchite is a member of the autunite group, found at the Jáchymov ore district (type locality), Czech Republic and in Schneeberg, Germany. Metarauchite is a member of the Autunite Group, which is a group of structured uranyl phosphates and arsenates, the other members of the group are Autunite, Bassetite, Heinrichite, Kahlerite, Nováčekite-I, Nováčekite-II, Rauchite, Sabugalite, Saléeite, Torbernite, Uranocircite, Uranospinite, Zeunerite. The mineral is named after Czech mineral collector Luděk Rauch, who died in the Jáchymov mines during mineral prospecting. \n\nMetarauchite occurs as a secondary mineral in strongly oxidized polymetallic vein material. Metarauchite is found primarily in two localities, the northern part of the Jáchymov ore district, northwestern Bohemia, Czech Republic and the Adam Heber mine, Neustädtel, Germany. It's commonly associated with metazeunerite, erythrite, and gypsum (Jáchymov) and Ni-bearing metanováčekite, metazeunerite, pharmacosiderite (Schneeberg). Both localities have a surface containing strongly altered aggregates of primary ore with relics of uraninite, arsenopyrite and nickelskutterudite and traces of native bismuth at the Schweitzer vein in the Eduard mine.\n\nMetarauchite exhibits yellow to light greenish-yellow crystals, up to 0.8 mm in size, these crystals are transparent to translucent and display vitreous to pearly luster. It exhibits a hardness of 2 on the Moh's Hardness Scale. Displays thick tabular crystals, with a prevalent pinacoid (011). Metarauchite is very brittle and shows perfect cleavage along the {011} plane. Metarauchite does not exhibit fluorescence either in short- and long-wavelength ultraviolet radiation. The density of metarauchite is not easily measured because of the relatively small size of most of its crystals; hence only the calculated density from the unit cell parameters and empirical formula was obtained, giving the value 3.81 g/cm<sup>3 .\n\nMetarachite is biaxial negative, it exhibits its 2V is calculated at 52°. Metarauchite is non-pleochroic and displays no observable dispersion and a Gladstone-Dale index of 0.03.\n\nMetarauchite is a Ni- and As-dominant member of the group of hydrated uranyl arsenates and phosphates with the autunite-type sheet containing divalent cations in their inter-layer. It is only isostructural with synthetic metakirchheimerite. Metarauchite displays prominent substitution for Mg with Co, but magnesium is more commonly substituted with Ni in species found at the Schneeberg locality. The empirical formula for metarauchite is (Ni0CoMg)(UO2)[(AsO4)(PO4)(SiO4)]•8.21HO (on the basis of 20 O,OH atoms). Simplified, the formula is Ni(UO)(AsO)•8HO.\n\nMetarauchite is in the triclinic crystal system, with a space group of P1 and is classed as a pinacoidal. The cell parameters are a = 7.194(2) Å, b = 9.759(5) Å, c = 13.231(7) Å, α = 75.53(3)°, β = 84.01(3)°, γ = 81.59(3)°, which shows an a:b:c ratio of 0.737:1:1.356. The unit cell volume is 887.53 Å³ (Calculated from Unit Cell). Metarauchite crystals show characteristic multiply twinned along {011}.\n\nList of minerals\n\n Plasil, et al., 2010, Metarauchite, From Jáchymov, Czech Republic, and Schneeberg, Germany: A New Member of the Autunite Group: Canadian MIneralologist, v. 48 p. 335-346.\n"}
{"id": "17474947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17474947", "title": "Meter operator", "text": "Meter operator\n\nA meter operator (MO or MOP) in the UK energy industry is an organization responsible for installing and maintaining electricity and gas meters. Since 1998 there has been full competition for meter operators, allowing the meter operator for a particular supply to be contracted with the energy supplier by either the supplier's discretion or at the customer's direction. Consumption data from the installed metering is then collected by the appointed data collector to be submitted for billing.\n\nThere is a requirement for all UK electricity meters to undergo a health, safety and security inspection and meter reading every 2 years. Electricity meters need to be replaced every 10 to 30 years, depending on the model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58107796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58107796", "title": "Missouri water resource region", "text": "Missouri water resource region\n\nThe Missouri water resource region is one of 21 major geographic areas, or regions, in the first level of classification used by the United States Geological Survey to divide and sub-divide the United States into successively smaller hydrologic units. These geographic areas contain either the drainage area of a major river, or the combined drainage areas of a series of rivers.\n\nThe Missouri region, which is listed with a 2-digit hydrologic unit code (HUC) of 10, has an approximate size of , and consists of 30 sub-regions, which are listed with the 4-digit HUCs 1001 through 1030.\n\nThis region includes the drainage within the United States of: (a) the Missouri River Basin, (b) the Saskatchewan River Basin, and (c) several small closed basins. Includes all of Nebraska and parts of Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Wyoming.\n\n"}
{"id": "18327306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18327306", "title": "Mulde event", "text": "Mulde event\n\nThe Mulde event was an anoxic event, and marked the second of three relatively minor mass extinctions (the Ireviken, Mulde, and Lau events) during the Silurian period. It coincided with a global drop in sea level, and is closely followed by an excursion in geochemical isotopes. Its onset is synchronous with the deposition of the Fröel formation in Gotland. Perceived extinction in the conodont fauna, however, likely represent a change in the depositional environment of sedimentary sequences rather than a genuine biological extinction.\n\nThe Ireviken, Mulde, and Lau events were all closely followed by isotopic excursions.\n"}
{"id": "2295015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2295015", "title": "Mycale", "text": "Mycale\n\nMycale (). also Mykale and Mykali (, \"Mykálē\"), called Samsun Dağı and Dilek Dağı (Dilek Peninsula) in modern Turkey, is a mountain on the west coast of central Anatolia in Turkey, north of the mouth of the Maeander and divided from the Greek island of Samos by the 1.6 km wide Mycale Strait. The mountain forms a ridge, terminating in what was known anciently as the Trogilium promontory (Ancient Greek Τρωγίλιον or Τρωγύλιον). There are several beaches on the north shore ranging from sand to pebbles. The south flank is mainly escarpment.\n\nIn classical Greece nearly the entire ridge was a promontory enclosed by the Aegean Sea. Geopolitically it was part of Ionia with Priene placed on the coast on the south flank of the mountain and Miletus on the coast opposite to the south across the deep embayment into which the Maeander River drained. Somewhat further north was Ephesus.\n\nThe ruins of the first two Ionian cities mentioned with their harbor facilities remain but today are several miles inland overlooking instead a rich agricultural plain and delta parkland created by deposition of sediments from the river, which continues to form the geological feature named after it, maeanders. The end of the former bay remains as a lake, Çamiçi Gölü (Lake Bafa). Samsun Daği does retain a promontory.\n\nThe entire ridge was made into a national park of , Dilek Yarimadisi Milli Parki (\"Dilek Peninsula National Park\") in 1966, which is in part accessible to the public. The remainder is a military reservation. The park's isolation has encouraged the return of the native ecology, which is 60% maquis. It is a refuge for species that used to be more abundant in the region.\n\nWestern Turkey is mainly fault-block terrain with steep-sided ridges running east-west and rivers in the rifts. The source of the faulting is the closing of Tethys Sea and the collision of the African and Arabian plates with the Eurasian plate. The smaller Turkish and Aegean plates are being pushed together, generating ridges in Turkey. This orogenic belt was in place by 1.6 mya and continues to be a hot spot of earthquakes and volcanos.\n\nMount Mycale is part of a larger ridge, which continues in Samos on the other side of the Samos Strait, and to the northeast in the Aydin Dağlari (\"Aydin Mountains\"), ancient Messogis range, on the other side of low hills and passes. The entire block of mountains around the Menderes (Maeander) River is the Menderes Massif.\n\nMycale is scored transversely by numerous ravines through which sources drain. The biggest ravine is Oluk Gorge, with cliffs high. The main permanent streams are the Bal Deresi, the Sarap Dami and the Oluk Dereleri. The ample water supply supports a verdant maquis.\n\nThe rock is primarily metamorphic: marble and limestone formed from rocks originating in the Mesozoic,crystalline schists formed from rocks originating in the Palaeozoic and conglomerates of the Cenozoic. These materials were not wasted on the renowned builders and sculptors of Ionia.\n\nThe ridge and its environs offer a number of different ecologies. The crest is a sharp divide between the xerophytic southern slopes and the forested northern slopes, with of maquis and of mixed pine.\nAround the base of the promontory is a maritime environment.\n\nThe maquis vegetation includes \"Pistacia lentiscus; Laurus nobilis; Quercus ilex, Q. frainetto\" and \"Q. ithaburensis; Phillyrea latifolia; Ceratonia siliqua; Olea europaea; Rubus fruticosus; Myrtus communis; Smilax; Jasminum fruticans; Vitex vivifera; Lathyrus grandiflorus; Erica arborea;\" and \"Juncus\" on the slopes of the north. In moister areas are to be found \"Nerium oleander, Platanus orientalis, Fraxinus ornus, Laurus nobilis, Cupressus sempervirens\" and \"Rubus fruticosus\".\n\nThe mixed pine forest goes up to . Its major plant species are Pinus brutia, Juniperus phoenicea, with broad-leaved trees and shrubs: Ulmus campestris, Acer sempervirens, Fraxinus ornus, Castanea sativa, Tilia platyphyllos, Sorbus torminalis, Viburnum tinus, Pyrus eleagrifolia and Prunus dulcis.\n\nSome mammals native to the region are Sus scrofa, Vulpes vulpes, Hystrix cristata, Canis aureus, Canis lupus, Martes martes, Lynx lynx, Felis sylvestris, Ursus arctos, Meles meles, Lepus, Erinaceus europaeus and Sciurus. Migrants are Lynx caracal and Panthera pardus.\n\nSome birds are Columba livia, Alectoris graeca, Perdix perdix, Coturnix coturnix, Scolopax rusticola, Turdus merula, Turdus pilaris, Oriolus oriolus, Merops apiaster, eagles, vultures, Corvus corax, Pica pica and Sturnus vulgaris.\n\nMonachus monachus breeds in caves around the shores of Mycale. They and other marine predators (including man) feed on Liza, Pagellus, Dentex vulgaris and Thunnus thynnus.\n\nMycale, Miletus and the Maeander appear in the Trojan Battle Order of the Iliad, where they are populated by Carians. \"The steep heights of Mycale\" and Miletus are also in the \"Hymn to Apollo\", where Leto, pregnant with Apollo, an especially Ionian god, travels about the Aegean looking for a home for her son, and settles on Delos, the major Ionian political, religious and cultural center of Classical Greece.\n\nA similar metaphor is to be found in the centuries-later \"Hymn to Delos\" of Callimachus, in which Delos, a swimming island, visits various places in the Aegean, including Parthenia, \"Maiden's Isle\" (Samos), where it is entertained by the nymphs of Mycalessos. Just as Parthenia is the previous name of Samos so the reader is to understand Mycalessos as the previous name of Mycale. On being chosen as the birthplace of Apollo, Delos becomes fixed in the sea.\n\nThere are no earlier instances of Mycale but some major Creto-Mycenan cities, later Ionian, which appear in Mycenaean Greek and Hittite records of the Late Bronze Age. In Hitti language, there were the Achaean-Greek cities Apasa (Ephesus), the capital of a state called Arzawa, in which also was Karkisha in (Caria) and Millawanda (Miletus). In the Linear B script tablets the region is called A-swi-ja (Asia). Documents at Pylos, Thebes and Knossos identify female textile workers and seamstresses (raptria)in servitude of Mi-ra-ti-ja, *Milātiai, \"Milesians.\" The regions from which they came were centers of Mycenaean civilization although the languages they spoke was an early Greek-Mycenaean language and written in Linear B, although some support that was an unknown.\nAfter the Late Bronze Age the entire Aegean region entered a historical period termed the Greek Dark Ages. Archaeologically it was known as the Proto-geometric and Geometric Periods, which did not belong to any one ethnic group. This is the time to which heavy Ionic migration from mainland Greece to the coast of Ionia and the emergence of Delos as an Ionian center is believed to apply. These events were over at the start of the brilliant renaissance of the Orientalizing Period in which Ionia played a cardinal role.\n\nDuring this rise to prominence twelve cities were settled or resettled and emerged as Ionia speaking varieties of Ionic Greek. Vitruvius, however, says there were thirteen, the extra state being Melite, which \"... as a punishment of the arrogance of its citizens was detached from the other states in a war levied pursuant to the directions of a general council (\"communi consilio\"); and in its place ... the city of Smyrna was admitted into the number of Ionian states (\"inter Ionas est recepta\").\" There is no other mention of Melite anywhere but two fragments of Hecataeus say that Melia was a city of Caria and an inscription from Priene confirms that there had been a \"Meliac War\" against a state located between Priene and Samos; i.e., on Mycale.\n\nThe inscription records the result of an arbitration between Priene and Samos by jurors from Rhodes. Both litigants claimed that Carium, the fortified settlement of Melia, and Dryussa, another settlement, had been distributed to them at the conclusion of the Meliac War, when the Carians were expelled. Being on the Samian side of the crest Melia had been resettled mainly by Samians and for this reason they had won a similar case brought before Lysimachus of Macedon a century earlier. That case is mentioned in an earlier inscription from Priene.\n\nPriene had now reopened the case arguing that their sale of plots from the land demonstrated their continuous ownership of it except for a brief period when an invasion of the Cimmerians under Lygdamus forced temporary Greek evacuation of the region (about 650 BC). The Samians used a passage from the now missing \"History\" of Maeandrius of Miletus to support their claim. The jury found that Maeandrius was not authentic and reversed the earlier decision.\n\nThe Melians had named their capital Carium, \"of Caria\" as a Greek word. Considering that it was placed in Ionia, the choice of name suggests a political statement of some sort, although the word may have had a different meaning in the Carian language, now lost except for a few dozen words. The Ionians leagued together to defeat it and continued the league, building a capital they called Panionium, \"of all the Ionians\" next to the former Carium. It rose to prominence while the Ionian confederacy was sovereign, became a memory when Ionia was incorporated into other states and empires and finally was lost altogether. The ancient writers remembered that it had been on the north side of the mountain, across the ridge from Priene.\n\nAfter a few false identifications in modern times, the ruins of Melia and the Panionium were discovered in 2004 on Dilek Daglari, a smaller peak of Mycale, to the north of Priene at an elevation of . The Carium must be the early 7th century BC town surrounded by a triangular wall in places as thick as .\n\nThe floruit was the early 7th, but sherds have been found there from as early as the Protogeometric period. Coldstream characterizes the burial structures as of \"a considerable Carian substrate.\" The culture was not entirely Carian; the Ionians continued the worship of Poseidon Heliconius there, which Strabo says came from Helike in Peloponnesian Achaea. This event must have been during the Ionian colonization. Melia therefore was a renegade Ionian state.\n\nThe temple believed to the Panionium was constructed next to the Carium about 540 BC. It took over the worship of Poseidon Heliconius, served as the meeting place of the Ionian League, and was the site of the religious festival and games (\"panegyris\") called the Panionia. The construction of this temple is a terminus post quem for the existence of the Ionian League, which as a constituted body had a name, the \"koinon Iōnōn\" (\"common thing of the Ionians\"), a \"synedrion\" (\"place to sit down together\") and a \"boulē\" (\"council\").\n\nWhether this body existed before the Meliac War is uncertain. Vitruvius' \"commune consilium\" seems to translate \"koinon.\" Some analysts have postulated an association as early as 800 BC but whether formally constituted remains unknown. There is no sign of it yet on Mycale unless Carium had in fact been it.\n\nIn 479 BC, Mycale was the site of one of the two major battles that ended the second Persian invasion of Greece, during the Greco-Persian Wars. Under the leadership of the Spartan Leotychides, the Greek fleet defeated the Persian fleet and army. According to Herodotus, the battle occurred the same day as the Greek victory at Plataea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4525066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4525066", "title": "Narmada Valley dry deciduous forests", "text": "Narmada Valley dry deciduous forests\n\nThe Narmada Valley dry deciduous forests are a tropical dry forest ecoregion of central India. The ecoregion lies mostly in Madhya Pradesh state, but extends into portions of Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, and Uttar Pradesh states.\n\nThe Narmada Valley dry deciduous forests cover an area of of the lower Narmada River Valley and the surrounding uplands of the Vindhya Range to the north and the western end of the Satpura Range to the south. The Narmada Valley is an east-west flat-bottomed valley, or graben, that separates the two plateaus. The Vindhya Range separates the valley from the Malwa plateau and Bundelkhand upland to the north. The Satpura Range reaches a height of 1,300m and encloses the valley on the south separating it from the Deccan plateau. The ecoregion includes the western portion of the Satpuras, and also extends to the southeast along the eastern flank of the Western Ghats' range. The uplands of this ecoregion are the northern limits of the Indian peninsula.\n\nRainfall in the ecoregion is highly seasonal; a seven- to eight-month dry season is followed by the June-to-September southwest monsoon, which brings 1,200-1,500 mm of rainfall in an average year. Many trees lose their leaves during the long dry season to conserve moisture.\n\nThe ecoregion lies between moister forests to the northeast, southeast, and southwest, which receive greater rainfall from the southeast monsoon, and the drier forests and scrublands of the Deccan to the south and Malwa and Gujarat to the west and northwest. The lowland Upper Gangetic Plains moist deciduous forests lie to the northeast, on the alluvial plain of the Ganges River and its tributaries below the eastern Vindhyas and the Bundelkhand upland. The Chota-Nagpur dry deciduous forests lie on the Chota Nagpur plateau to the east. The Eastern highlands moist deciduous forests, which receive more annual moisture from the Bay of Bengal, lie to the southeast. To the southwest, along the spine of the Western Ghats range, lie the wetter North Western Ghats moist deciduous forests, which receive more moisture from the southwest monsoon winds off the Arabian Sea.\n\nTo the south, the Deccan Plateau of Maharashtra lies in the rain shadow of the Western Ghats, and is home to the Central Deccan Plateau dry deciduous forests of Vidarbha and the drier Deccan thorn scrub forests of Kandesh. The Kathiarbar-Gir dry deciduous forests cover most of Malwa to the northwest and the lowlands of Gujarat to the west.\n\nThe natural vegetation of the region is a three-tiered forest adapted to the monsoon and dry season climate. The forests typically have an upper canopy at 15–25 meters, a 10-15 meter understory of smaller trees and large shrubs, and a 3-4 meter undergrowth. Teak \"(Tectona grandis)\" is the dominant canopy tree, in association with coromandel ebony \"(Diospyros melanoxylon),\" dhaora \"(Anogeissus latifolia\"), \"Lagerstroemia parviflora\", \"Terminalia tomentosa\", \"Lannea coromandelica\", \"Hardwickia binata,\" and \"Boswellia serrata\".\n\nRiparian areas along the regions rivers and streams, which receive year-round water, are home to moist evergreen forests, whose dominant tree species are \"Terminalia arjuna, Syzygium cumini, Syzygium heyneanum, Salix tetrasperma, Homonoia riparia,\" and \"Vitex negundo.\"\n\nThe ecoregion is home to 76 species of mammals, none of which are endemic, although several of which, including the Bengal tiger \"(Panthera tigris tigris)\", along with gaur \"(Bos gaurus)\", packs of dhole or Asiatic wild dog \"(Cuon alpinus)\", sloth bear \"(Melursus ursinus)\", chousingha \"(Tetracerus quadricornis)\", and blackbuck \"(Antilope cervicapra)\", are threatened.\n\nThe ecoregion is home to 276 bird species, none of which are endemic. Large threatened birds include the lesser florican \"(Eupodotis indica)\" and Indian bustard \"(Ardeotis nigriceps)\".\n\nThis area is densely populated and only about 30% of the ecoregion is covered in relatively intact vegetation, but this does include some large blocks of habitat in the amarkantak, Vindhya and Satpura ranges which are important for the preservation of the tiger.\n\nAs of 1997, about 5% of the ecoregion (7,500 km²) lies within protected areas, the largest of which are Melghat Tiger Reserve and Noradehi Sanctuary while others include Bandhavgarh, Panna, and Sanjay national parks. Plans to dam the Narmada River will impact on the wildlife of the ecoregion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18508433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18508433", "title": "North American Prairies Province", "text": "North American Prairies Province\n\nThe North American Prairies Province is a large grassland floristic province within the North American Atlantic Region, a floristic region within the Holarctic Kingdom. It lies between the Appalachian Province and the Rocky Mountains and includes the prairies of the Great Plains. It is bounded by the Canadian coniferous forests on the north and the arid semideserts to the southwest. The province itself is occupied by temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands (including such ecoregions as the Flint Hills tallgrass prairie, Sand Hills, High Plains). Endemism is rather limited in this province, and its boundaries are vague. During the Pleistocene much of the province was glaciated.\n\n"}
{"id": "90178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90178", "title": "Q'uq'umatz", "text": "Q'uq'umatz\n\nQ'uq'umatz () (alternatively Qucumatz, Gukumatz, Gucumatz, Gugumatz, Kucumatz etc.) was a deity of the Postclassic K'iche' Maya. Q'uq'umatz was the Feathered Serpent divinity of the \"Popol Vuh\" who created humanity together with the god Tepeu. Q'uq'umatz is considered to be the rough equivalent of the Aztec god Quetzalcoatl, and also of Kukulkan of the Yucatec Maya tradition. It is likely that the feathered serpent deity was borrowed from one of these two peoples and blended with other deities to provide the god Q'uq'umatz that the K'iche' worshipped. Q'uq'umatz may have had his origin in the Valley of Mexico; some scholars have equated the deity with the Aztec deity Ehecatl-Quetzalcoatl, who was also a creator god. Q'uq'umatz may originally have been the same god as Tohil, the K'iche' sun god who also had attributes of the feathered serpent, but they later diverged and each deity came to have a separate priesthood.\n\nQ'uq'umatz was one of the gods who created the world in the Popul Vuh, the K'iche' creation epic. Q'uq'umatz, god of wind and rain, was closely associated with Tepeu, god of lightning and fire. Both of these deities were considered to be the mythical ancestors of the K'iche' nobility by direct male line. Q'uq'umatz carried the sun across the sky and down into the underworld and acted as a mediator between the various powers in the Maya cosmos. The deity was particularly associated with water, clouds, the wind and the sky.\n\nKotuja', the K'iche' king who founded the city of Q'umarkaj, bore the name of the deity as a title and was likely to have been a former priest of the god. The priests of Q'uq'umatz at Q'umarkaj, the K'iche' capital, were drawn from the dominant Kaweq dynasty and acted as stewards in the city.\n\nThe name translates literally as \"Quetzal Serpent\" although it is often rendered less accurately as \"Feathered Serpent\". The name derives from the K'iche' word \"q'uq\", referring to the Resplendent quetzal \"Pharomachrus mocinno\", a brightly coloured bird of the cloud forests of southern Mesoamerica. This is combined with the word \"kumatz\" \"snake\". The male Resplendent quetzal boasts iridescent blue-green tail feathers measuring up to long that were prized by the Maya elite. The blue-green feathers symbolised vegetation and the sky, both symbols of life for the ancient Maya, while the bright red feathers of the bird's chest symbolised fire. Together, this combination gave a profound religious symbolism to the bird. The snake was a Maya symbol of rebirth due to its habit of shedding its skin to reveal a fresher one underneath. Q'uq'umatz thus combined the celestial characteristics of the Quetzal with the serpentine underworld powers of the snake, giving him power over all levels of the Maya universe. These characteristics also indicated a sexual duality between his masculine feathered serpent aspect and his feminine association with water and wind. This duality enabled the god to serve as a mediator between the masculine sun god Tohil and the feminine moon goddess Awilix, a role that was symbolised with the Mesoamerican ballgame.\n\nIn ancient Maya highland texts Q'uq'umatz is strongly associated with water, which in turn is associated with the underworld. The K'iche' are reported to have believed that Q'uq'umatz was a feathered serpent that moved in the water. In the \"Annals of the Cakchiquels\", it is related that a group of highland Maya referred to themselves as the \"Gucumatz\" because their only salvation was said to be in the water. The Kaqchikel Maya were closely linked to the K'iche' and one of their ancestors, Gagavitz, was said to have thrown himself into Lake Atitlán and transformed himself into the deity, thus raising a storm upon the water and forming a whirlpool.\n\nAmong the K'iche' Q'uq'umatz not only appeared as a feathered serpent, he was also embodied as an eagle and a jaguar, he was also known to transform himself into a pool of blood. The deity was sometimes represented by a snail or conch shell and was associated with a flute made from bones. As well as being associated with water, Q'uq'umatz was also associated with clouds and the wind.\n\nQ'uq'umatz was not directly equivalent to the Mexican Quetzalcoatl, he combined his attributes with those of the Classic Period Chontal Maya creator god Itzamna and was a two headed serpentine sky monster that carried the sun across the sky. Sculptures of a human face emerging between the jaws of a serpent were common from the end of the Classic Period through to the Late Postclassic and may represent Q'uq'umatz in the act of carrying Hunahpu, the youthful avatar of the sun god Tohil, across the sky. After midday, Q'uq'umatz continued into the west and descended towards the underworld bearing an older sun. Such sculptures were used as markers for the Mesoamerican ballgame. Since Q'uq'umatz acted as a mediator between Tohil and Awilix and their incarnations as the Maya Hero Twins Hunahpu and Ixbalanque, the positioning of such ballcourt markers on the east and west sides of north-south oriented ballcourts would represent Q'uq'umatz carrying the sun to the zenith with the east marker carrying Hunahpu/Tohil in its jaws, while the west marker would represent the descent of the sun into the underworld and would be carrying Ixbalanque/Awilix in its jaws.\n\nNo ballgame markers are known from the heart of the K'iche' kingdom and investigators such as Fox consider it significant that these images of Q'uq'umatz carrying the sun are found in the eastern periphery facing the underworld due to the use of the ballgame in mediating political conflict.\n\nThe various Feathered Serpent deities remained popular in Mesoamerican folk traditions after the Spanish Conquest but by the 20th century Q'uq'umatz appeared only rarely among the K'iche'. A tradition was recorded by Juan de León that Q'uq'umatz assisted the sun-god Tohil in his daily climb to the zenith. According to De León, who may have gathered the information from elders in Santa Cruz del Quiché, the feathered serpent gripped Tohil in his jaws to carry him safely up into the sky.\n\nIn the beginning of the Popol Vuh, Q'uq'umatz is depicted as afloat in the primordial sea with Tepeu, wrapped in quetzal feathers. Nothing yet existed, only the sea at rest under the sky. Soon Q'uq'umatz and Tepeu discussed the creation of man and it was decided between them to raise the earth and create mankind. The gods spoke the word \"Earth\" and the earth was formed as if from a mist. They then called forth the mountains from the water and the mountains rose at their command. Forests of pine and cypress then sprung up among the newly formed mountains and valleys. Q'uq'umatz was pleased with their collaborative creation of the earth and thanked the other gods that were present. The gods created animals such as the deer, the birds, pumas, jaguars and different types of snakes. They instructed each animal where it should live. The gods then commanded that the animals should give them praise and worship them. However, the animals could not speak and simply squawked, chattered and roared in their own manner. Q'uq'umatz soon realized that their first attempt at the creation of beings was a failure as they could not give them praise and so they condemned the animals to live in the forests and ravines. Their animals were ordered to live in the wild and to let their flesh be eaten by the ones who will keep the days of the gods and show them praise.\n\nThey first formed men of mud, but in this form man could neither move nor speak and quickly dissolved into nothingness. Later, they created men of sculpted wood, which Huracan destroyed as the wooden manikins were imperfect, emotionless and showed no praise to the gods. The survivors were then transformed into monkeys, and sentenced to live in the wild. Q'uq'umatz and Tepeu were finally successful in their creation by constructing men out of maize. Here the first men were formed: B'alam Agab, B'alam Quitzé, Iqi B'alam, Mahucatah. Their sight was far and they understood all.\n\nThe Popol Vuh also mentions a historic ruler of the K'iche' who bore the name or title of the deity, probably because he drew some of his power from the god. This title of \"Feathered Serpent\", was an important title used for historical figures in other parts of Mesoamerica, the personal name of this king was likely to have been Kotuja'. This individual was likely to have been an \"Aj Q'uq'umatz\", or priest of Q'uq'umatz, before he became the \"Aj pop\" (king). This king was said to have refounded the K'iche' capital at Q'umarkaj.\n\nIn the K'iche' capital city Q'umarkaj the temple of Q'uq'umatz consisted of a circular temple in honour of the deity together with a palace in honour of the Kawek lineage, the ruling dynasty of the city. The only trace of the temple now is a circular impression in the surface of the city's main plaza. The temple was located directly between the temples to the important K'iche' deities Tohil and Awilix, slightly north of the central axis of the temple of Tohil and slightly south of the axis of the temple of Awilix, replicating the role of Q'uq'umatz as mediator between the two deities. From the traces left in the plaza it is evident that the temple consisted of a circular wall measuring across, running around a circular platform, with a wide circular passage between the two. The whole structure probably once supported a roof and there were small stone platforms on the east and west sides of the temple, each about wide. The temple of Q'uq'umatz must have been completely dismantled very soon after the Spanish Conquest since it is not mentioned by any of the Colonial era visitors, and early drawings of the site show only vegetation where the temple once stood. The tradition of circular temples dedicated to the Feathered Serpent deity was an ancient one in the Mesoamerican cultural region.\n\nThe priests of Q'uq'umatz were drawn from an important lineage among the ruling Kaweq dynasty and this was likely to have been a source of power and prestige for the Kaweq. The priests were known as \"Aj Q'uq'umatz\", meaning \"he of Q'uq'umatz\". The priests of Q'uq'umatz and of Tepeu, his partner in the K'iche' creation myth (the \"Aj Q'uq'umatz\" and the \"Tepew Yaki\"), also served as stewards in Q'umarkaj and were responsible for receiving and guarding any tribute payments and plunder that were returned to the city. Although K'iche' priests were generally of lower rank than secular officials, the priests of the Kaweq lineages were an exception, and this included the priests of Q'uq'umatz, Tepeu and Tohil.\n\n"}
{"id": "43630987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43630987", "title": "Rachel Christenson", "text": "Rachel Christenson\n\nRachel Christenson (born September 24, 1983) is an American entrepreneur and author. She is the CEO and co-founder of Selling Energy, based in Burlingame, California.\n\nChristenson received her bachelor's degree from the University of Utah in Architectural Studies and her Master's from Portland State University in International Management.\n\nShe is the co-author of the Wall Street Journal best-selling book \"Selling Energy: Inspiring Ideas That Get More Projects Approved!\" with Mark Jewell, a series of essays urging sales professionals to “stop promoting and start selling.\" The book went on to win accolades from the Axiom Business Book Awards, the International Book Awards and the Reader Views Annual Literary Award.\n\nChristenson is also an active member of the Women Presidents' Organization (WPO).\n\n"}
{"id": "861928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=861928", "title": "Refractory", "text": "Refractory\n\nA refractory material or refractory is a heat-resistant material, i.e. a mineral that is resistant to decomposition by heat, pressure, or chemical attack. It most commonly refers to a mineral that retains strength and form at high temperatures.\n\nASTM C71 defines refractories as \"...non-metallic materials having those chemical and physical properties that make them applicable for structures, or as components of systems, that are exposed to environments above .\"\n\nRefractory materials are used in furnaces, kilns, incinerators, and reactors.\n\nRefractories are also used to make crucibles and moulds for casting glass and metals and for surfacing flame deflector systems for rocket launch structures. Today, the iron- and steel-industry and metal casting sectors use approximately 70% of all refractories produced.\n\nRefractory materials must be chemically and physically stable at high temperatures. Depending on the operating environment, they must be resistant to thermal shock, be chemically inert, and/or have specific ranges of thermal conductivity and of the coefficient of thermal expansion.\n\nThe oxides of aluminium (alumina), silicon (silica) and magnesium (magnesia) are the most important materials used in the manufacturing of refractories. Another oxide usually found in refractories is the oxide of calcium (lime). Fire clays are also widely used in the manufacture of refractories.\n\nRefractories must be chosen according to the conditions they face. Some applications require special refractory materials. Zirconia is used when the material must withstand extremely high temperatures. Silicon carbide and carbon (graphite) are two other refractory materials used in some very severe temperature conditions, but they cannot be used in contact with oxygen, as they would oxidize and burn.\n\nBinary compounds such as tungsten carbide or boron nitride can be very refractory. Hafnium carbide is the most refractory binary compound known, with a melting point of 3890 °C. The ternary compound tantalum hafnium carbide has one of the highest melting points of all known compounds (4215 °C).\n\n1. \"Acidic refractories\" consist of acidic materials like alumina (AlO), and silica (SiO). They are impervious to acidic materials, but easily attacked by basic materials. Important members of this group are alumina, silica, and fireclay refractories. \n\n2. \"Basic refractories\" consist of basic materials such as CaO, MgO, etc. These are impervious to basic materials, but easily attacked by acidic materials. Important members of this group are magnesite and dolomite refractories. \n\n3. Neutral refractories are made from weakly acid/basic materials such as carbon, silicon carbide (SiC), chromite (FeCrO) and zirconia (ZrO).\n\nAcidic refractories consist of mostly acidic materials like alumina (AlO) and silica (SiO). They are generally not attacked or affected by acidic materials, but easily affected by basic materials. They include substances such as silica, alumina, and fire clay brick refractories. Notable reagents that can attack both alumina and silica are hydrofluoric acid, phosphoric acid, and fluorinated gases (e.g. HF, F). At high temperatures, acidic refractories may also react with limes and basic oxides.\n\nThese are used in areas where slags and atmosphere are either acidic or basic and are chemically stable to both acids and bases. The main raw materials belong to, but are not confined to, the RO group. Common examples of these materials are alumina (AlO), chromia (CrO) and carbon.\n\nThese are used in areas where slags and atmosphere are basic. They are stable to alkaline materials but can react to acids. The main raw materials belong to the RO group, of which magnesia (MgO) is a common example. Other examples include dolomite and chrome-magnesia. For the first half of the twentieth century, the steel making process used artificial periclase (roasted magnesite) as a furnace lining material.\n\n\nThese have standard size and shapes. These may be further divided into standard shapes and special shapes. Standard shapes have dimension that are conformed by most refractory manufacturers and are generally applicable to kilns or furnaces of the same types. Standard shapes are usually bricks that have a standard dimension of 9 x 4-1/2 x 2-1/2 inches (230 x 114 x 64 mm) and this dimension is called a \"one brick equivalent\". \"Brick equivalents\" are used in estimating how many refractory bricks it takes to make an installation into an industrial furnace. There are ranges of standard shapes of different sizes manufactured to produce walls, roofs, arches, tubes and circular apertures etc. Special shapes are specifically made for specific locations within furnaces and for particular kilns or furnaces. Special shapes are usually less dense and therefore less hard wearing than standard shapes. \nPrecast refractory shape technology has become a specialized field within the refractory industry in recent years. As demands increase for greater refractory lining performance and lower maintenance costs, refractory users are finding that one effective way to achieve those goals is to incorporate a broader use of precast refractory shapes into their lining systems. Across virtually all industries – petrochemical, steel, power generation, metal casting and treatment, wood products, minerals processing and others - the applications for precast shapes are limited only by the imagination, and almost invariably their use results in better performance and lower cost. This article discusses the design and manufacture of precast refractory shapes, and the benefits to material properties and installation logistics.\n\nRealizing the benefits of precast shapes requires that designers have a thorough knowledge of how the shape system is used and installed in the field. Successful design and manufacture of a high-performance refractory shape system requires understanding refractory materials, manufacturing, anchoring systems, and construction practice. Dimensional tolerances, construction sequencing, lifting and handling capabilities at the site, anchoring facilities, and the actual service demands within the refractory lining environment are all factors that must be well known before the shape is designed.\n\nPrecast shape manufacturing requires a mold or pattern to form the shape. Several methods for mold-making are routinely used, and the type of mold construction and materials depends on the size, complexity, and dimensional tolerances the shape requires, and sometimes the quantity of shapes. Simple shapes with loose dimensional tolerances (+/- 1/16\") can use plywood or metal forms. Other shapes may involve extremely tight tolerances that require more sophisticated molds made from wood, plastic, or metal. These molds may be made by a foundry pattern maker or machine shop.\n\nAnother factor in the design of a precast shape has to do with the schedule and sequencing of the actual field installation. The shape design must take into account job accessibility, what other lining components are already in place when the shapes are installed, and how the shape can be handled physically on the job site. Weight and lifting limitations must be considered and planned for, as well as the type of access available into the furnace or vessel. If necessary, lifting lugs or other fixtures can sometimes be incorporated into the shape design.\n\nThe design of the anchoring system used in the shape is important. In addition to the normal considerations of alloy type and anchor size, the precast shape design must also consider all alternatives for attaching the shape to the structure. Numerous methods can be used, including threaded stud attachments through the wall, welded fixtures, or bolted assemblies.\n\nPerhaps most importantly, the proper refractory material must be selected to suit the demands of the application. Factors such as the desired temperature profile through the lining, expected mechanical stresses, potential chemical attack on the lining, erosion mechanisms, and expansion allowance must all be understood prior to selecting a material to use in the precast shape.\n\nA well-equipped precast manufacturing facility should include high-energy, large capacity mixers, automated mixing stations with conveyors for material delivery, vibration tables, digitally-controlled water addition, mixing time controllers, and adequate lifting capabilities for large shapes. Firing of shapes is accomplished with a digitally-controlled furnace with burners capable of firing to at least 1300 deg. F. In-house mold/pattern fabrication capabilities and CAD-generated drawings for design assistance should also be expected.\n\nRegardless of how complex or sophisticated the refractory castable is that is selected for an application, the physical properties of the material can be drastically reduced if care is not taken during the mixing, pouring, and curing processes. Particularly with the use of more complex refractory castables to solve specific wear issues, installation variables become even more critical to the performance of a lining. Unfortunately, lining quality is often compromised by field conditions during material placement. Project schedules, crew skill levels, equipment availability, job cost pressures, or other demands can sometimes influence proper refractory installation. Improper water addition, mix time variations, over- or under-vibration, and improper curing can drastically affect material quality. With precast shapes, cast in a controlled shop environment, the physical properties of a castable can be more fully optimized.\n\nInitial drying and firing of a refractory castable is a critical installation variable that can influence lining performance. Precast shapes are typically fired in a digitally-controlled furnace prior to shipment, ensuring that the refractory manufacturer's recommended bake-out schedule is closely followed. Since the shapes are fired slowly from all sides, the moisture is removed through the entire thickness of the shape in a controlled manner. Depending on the temperature to which the shape is fired, this can optimize the physical properties of the material through the entire thickness of the shape, not just the hot face surface. This results in a truly homogeneous lining. Micro-cracks within the shape, which are often introduced during field bake-out but may go unnoticed, may also be reduced since the initial firing is more controlled.\n\nIn service, linings composed of precast shapes often see less stress and cracking, due to the independent, \"floating\" nature of the lining. The performance of the lining can also be more predictable, resulting in better opportunities to plan for maintenance and repairs.\n\nOther major benefits of precast refractory shapes are related to simplified installation and repair logistics, which can reduce costs and down times. Using precast shapes eliminates forming labor, materials, equipment costs, actual placement time and expense, and associated costs during form removal, curing, and cleanup. It shifts these costs back to the manufacturer of the shape, who can absorb them much efficiently by spreading them over the overall production capacity.\n\nRefractory installation contractors have begun to consider precast refractory shapes much like they do any other pre-manufactured item such as block insulation, ceramic fiber blanket, anchors, etc. These items can be bought and then re-sold as a component of their installation projects. \nWhenever any portion of refractory repair work can be completed prior to crews being on site, costs are automatically reduced. Installation contractors have also found that the use of precast shapes can often give them a substantial advantage in competitive bid situations.\n\nWith the use of precast shapes, crew sizing can be minimized. Speed of installation is another obvious benefit to both the installer and the owner, resulting in reduced costs due to shorter job duration. Material usage is also reduced, when compared to other installation methods such as guniting, where as much as 45% of extra material is required to compensate for rebound and other job losses. Environmental hazards such as dusting and tripping hazards associated with equipment and hoses are also reduced substantially, if not eliminated. \nFuture repairs also become much more economical and quicker to accomplish. Repair areas can be isolated to just the immediate wear area within the boundaries of a shape. Anchor attachment points can typically be reused. Replacement shapes, purchased early and kept as spare parts on site, can be easily installed in a fraction of the time required for conventional repair methods. \nThe initial bake-out of a new refractory lining on site can be a very expensive and time-consuming component of a refractory repair project. The use of precast and prefired refractory shapes can sometimes reduce or even eliminate the need for an extensive initial bake-out. If an entire repair is made with a prefired system, then normal furnace start up schedules can be used, without the fear of steam spalls or other damage during the initial heating. Bake-out of multi-component linings, which may include a combination of precast shapes and other materials placed in the field, can often be reduced by the pre-firing of the castable shapes, particularly if that material would have been the critical item determining the bake out schedule. This can have a positive impact on not only job costs, but in reducing down time as well.\n\nPrecast refractory shapes will likely remain a growing specialty in the refractory industry. With improved quality through controlled manufacturing, their expanding use may play a major role in improving refractory lining performance and reduce maintenance costs across all industries.\n\nThese are without definite form and are only given shape upon application. These types are better known as monolithic refractories. The common examples are plastic masses, Ramming masses, castables, gunning masses, fettling mix, mortars etc.\n\nDry vibration linings often used in Induction furnace linings are also monolithic, and sold and transported as a dry powder, usually with a magnesia/alumina composition with additions of other chemicals for altering specific properties. They are also finding more applications in blast furnace linings, although this use is still rare.\n\nCastable refractories\n\nThese materials consist of precision graded coarse and fine refractory grains. They are gelled by means of a binder system in the materials green state. Following the heat-up of the material the binder either transforms or volatilises facilitating the formation of a ceramic bond. The most common binder used in castables is HAC (high alumina cement). Other binders that are often used include hydratable aluminas and colloidal silica. Castables are mixed with water and then installed by either pouring or pumping. Placement of the material then requires vibration.\n\nThe cement-containing castables are often classified by the amount of cement they contain. Conventional castables can contain around 15-30% cement binder. As refractory technology evolved chemical additives were included in the package to reduce the amount of cement and water the product required - the impact of this was material with improved strengths and durability. Low cement castables contain between about 3-10% cement by weight. Ultra low cement castables contain less than 3% cement.\n\nA specialised type of refractory castable is the free flow castable, which can be installed without vibration and require much less water than traditional castables. This is due to the fact that they have particle packing and dispersing agents that modify the surface chemistry of the fine particles to improve the flow of the material.\n\nCertain castable formulations may be installed via gunning techniques, which involves spraying the material through a nozzle at a high speed. At the nozzle, cement accelerators are often added to promote rapid hardening of the material. This technique helps workers line applications quickly.\n\nPlastic refractories\n\nThese are monolithic refractory materials, which are tempered with water or added with a binder. They have sufficient plasticity to be pounded or rammed into place.\n\nRamming refractories\n\nThese materials are very similar to plastic refractories though are much stiffer mixes.\n\nPatching refractories\n\nThese materials are similar to plastic refractories, but have a soft plasticity, so they can be pounded into place.\n\nCoating refractories\n\nThis type of product is used to protect refractory linings usually against chemical attack. Coating refractories are normally intended to cover just the working surface of a lining. They tend to be fairly thin layers.\n\nRefractory Mortars\n\nMortars consist of finely ground refractory materials mixed with water to form a paste. They are used for laying and bonding shaped refractory products such as bricks. They are normally applied by trowelling.\n\nInsulating castables\n\nInsulating castables are specialised monolithic refractories that are used on the cold face of applications. They are made from lightweight aggregate materials such as vermiculite, perlite, extend-o-spheres, bubble alumina and expanded clay. Their main function is to provide thermal insulation. They are typically of low density and low thermal conductivity. Insulating refractories have inferior mechanical strength to that of conventional castables.\n\nBased on fusion temperature, (melting point) refractory materials are classified into three types.\n\n\nAll refractories require anchorage systems such as wire formed anchors, formed metal (for example, hexmetal) or ceramic tiles to support the refractory linings. The anchorage used for refractories on roofs and vertical walls are more critical as they must remain able to support the weight of refractories even at the elevated temperatures and operating conditions.\n\nThe commonly used anchorages have circular or rectangular cross-sections. Circular cross-sections are used for low thickness refractory and they support less weight per unit area; whereas the rectangular cross-section is used for high thickness refractory and can support higher weight of refractory per unit area. The number of anchors depends on operating conditions and the refractory materials. The choice of an anchor's material, shape, quantity, and size has significant impact on the useful life of the refractory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5768470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5768470", "title": "Soil color", "text": "Soil color\n\nSoil color does not affect the behavior and use of soil; however, it can indicate the composition of the soil and give clues to the conditions that the soil is subjected to. Soil can exhibit a wide range of colour; gray, black, white, reds, browns, yellows and under the right conditions green. Varying horizontal bands of colour in the soil often identify a specific soil horizon. The development and distribution of color in soil results from chemical and biological weathering, especially redox reactions. As the primary minerals in soil parent material weather, the elements combine into new and colorful compounds. Soil conditions produce uniform or gradual color changes, while reducing environments result in disrupted color flow with complex, mottled patterns and points of color concentration.\n\nSoil color is produced by the minerals present and by the organic matter content. Yellow or red soil indicates the presence of oxidized ferric iron oxides. Dark brown or black color in soil indicates that the soil has a high organic matter content. Wet soil will appear darker than dry soil. However, the presence of water also affects soil color by affecting the oxidation rate. Soil that has a high water content will have less air in the soil, specifically less oxygen. In well drained (and therefore oxygen rich soils) red and brown colors caused by oxidation are more common, as opposed to in wet (low oxygen) soils where the soil usually appears grey or greenish due to the presence of reduced (ferrous) iron oxide. The presence of other minerals can also affect soil color. Manganese oxide causes a black color, glauconite makes the soil green, and calcite can make soil in arid regions appear white.\n\nOrganic matter tends to make the soil color darker. Humus, the final stage of organic matter breakdown is black. Throughout the stages of organic matter breakdown the colour imparted to the soil varies from browns to black. Sodium content influences the depth of colour of organic matter and therefore the soil. Sodium causes the organic matter (humus) to disperse more readily and spread over the soil particles, making the soil look darker (blacker).\n\nOften described by using general terms, such as dark brown, yellowish brown, etc., soil colors are also described more technically by using Munsell soil color charts, which separate color into components of hue (relation to red, yellow and blue), value (lightness or darkness) and chroma (paleness or strength).\n\n"}
{"id": "11136930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11136930", "title": "Strategic uranium reserves", "text": "Strategic uranium reserves\n\nStrategic uranium reserves refer to uranium inventories held by the government of a particular country, as well as private industry, for the purpose of providing economic and national security during an energy crisis.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the United States created a temporary strategic uranium reserve. The authorization for this reserve expired in 1998:\n\n\"There is hereby established the National Strategic Uranium Reserve under the direction and control of the Secretary. The Reserve shall consist of natural uranium and uranium equivalents contained in stockpiles or inventories currently held by the United States for defense purposes. Effective on October 24, 1992, and for 6 years thereafter, use of the Reserve shall be restricted to military purposes and government research. Use of the Department of Energy’s stockpile of enrichment tails existing on October 24, 1992, shall be restricted to military purposes for 6 years thereafter.\"\n\nRecently, due to increases in the price of uranium the Department of Energy has considered the creation of a permanent strategic uranium reserve along the lines of the U.S. strategic petroleum reserve.\n\nChina has announced the creation of a strategic uranium reserve to complement its strategic petroleum reserves.\n\nJapan has also shown interest in creating its own strategic reserve of uranium.\n\n"}
{"id": "38288783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38288783", "title": "Yamuna in Hinduism", "text": "Yamuna in Hinduism\n\nYamuna is a sacred river in Hinduism and the main tributary of the Goddess Ganga (Ganges), the holiest river of Hinduism. The river is worshipped as a Hindu goddess called Yamuna. In the Vedas, Yamuna is known as Yami, while in later literature, she is called Kalindi. She is incarnation of Saraswati?\nIn the Vedas, Yami is associated with her twin brother and partner Yama, the god of death. Later, she is associated with the god Krishna as one of Ashtabharya, his consort as well and plays an important role in his early life as a river. Bathing and drinking Yamuna's waters is regarded to remove sin.\n\nYamuna's iconographic depiction is seen on temple doorjambs, along with that of Ganga (the goddess of the Ganges), since the Gupta era. The \"Agni Purana\" describes Yamuna's iconography. She is depicted as black in complexion and stands on her mount, the tortoise, holding a water pot in her hand. In an ancient painting she is shown as a beautiful maiden standing on the banks of the river.\n\nYamuna is described as the daughter of the sun god Surya (though some say that she was the daughter of Brahma) and his wife Saranyu (Sanjna in later literature), the goddess of the clouds, and the twin sister of Yama, the god of death. Her other brothers include Vaivasvata Manu, the first man and the twin Ashvins, divine doctors. and the planet Saturn (Shani).She is described as Surya's favourite child. As the daughter of Surya, she is also called as Suryatanaya, Suryaja and Ravinandini.\n\nAs a companion of Yama, Yamuna is often called Yami in the Vedas. Yama/Yami probably originates the Sanskrit word meaning twins of both sexes. In later literature, she is known as Yamuna and Kalindi (\"the dark one\").\n\nA tale explains her name Yamuna: Sanjna was unable to bear her husband, the sun's heat and light and closed her eyes in his presence. Surya felt insulted and said that their son will be known as Yama (\"restraint\"), due to the restraint she showed. Thereafter, Sanjna tried her best to keep her eyes open, however she flickered them angering Surya again who proclaimed that her daughter would be Yamuna. Since Sanjna had tried to keep the eyes open, Yamuna was blessed that she would worshipped as a goddess and remembered throughout time.\nThe name \"Kalindi\" may be derived from her association with Yama, the Lord of death and darkness as Kala.\nAnother source suggests that she derives the name \"Kalindi\" from her \"earthly\" source, the mountain Kalinda. Some legends also explain Yamuna's darkness and thus her name \"Kalindi\". The \"Vamana Purana\" narrates the tale how the originally clear waters turned black. Distraught by the death of his wife Sati, Shiva wandered the whole universe. The god of love Kamadeva shot Shiva with the arrow \"Unmadastra\", that made Shiva restless and excited. Ever thinking of Sati, an excited Shiva jumped into Yamuna to overcome the sexual urge in his mad frenzy, turning her waters into black by his sorrow and unfulfilled desire. Another legend describes that Krishna defeated and banished the serpent Kaliya in the Yamuna. While the dark serpent entered the waters, the river became dark.\n\nYami was the first woman, along with her twin brother, Yama in Vedic beliefs. Yama and Yami are a divine pair of creator deities. While Yama is depicted as the Lord of Death, Yami is said to be the Lady of life.\n\nYami also addresses a hymn to Yama in the \"Rig Veda\", describing various drinks offered to dying sacrificers in the after-life. The Brahmana text \"Taittiriya Samhita\" says that Yama is Agni (fire) and Yami is the earth. Yami is thus further described as an association with the earth, relating her to the goddess of graveyards and sorrow, Nirriti, another partner of Yama in the Vedas. In the Brahmanas; however retains the central role of being Yama's twin sister in the Samhita texts. In the Purushamedha rite in the \"Shatapatha Brahmana\", a mother of twins is sacrificed to Yami, while twins are offered in the \"Taittiriya Brahmana\".\n\nThe Brahmana text \"Maitrayani Samhita\" narrates: As the partner of Yama, Yami grieved instantly the death of Yama, the first mortal to die. As there was continuously daytime at the start of creation, Yami was unable to understand the lapse of time since Yama's death. The gods created night separating two days so that Yami understood that time was passing and slowly recovered from her sorrow. The concept of the pair of twins with \nThe festival of Bhau-beej, celebrated by a brother and a sister, honours the divine siblings. A prayer recited by the sister to her brother requests him to enjoy her offerings of food and eat them to please Yama and Yamuna.\nThe river is called Yamuna and the goddess generally Kalindi in sources related to Krishna. She is also, according to some sources, a form of Nila Devi. \nIn an myth related to Krishna's birth, Krishna's father Vasudeva was carrying the new-born Krishna to safety was crossing the Yamuna River, he asked Yamuna to make a way for him to cross the river, which she did by creating a passage. This was the first time that she saw Krishna whom she marries in later life. Yamuna wanted to touch the feet of the baby which she did at deeper depths of the river and as a result the river became very calm.\n\nKrishna also spent most of youth in Vrindavan on the banks of Yamuna, playing the flute and playing with his lover Radha and the gopis on the banks. It is said that Kalindi fell in love with Him as she saw His Eternal love with Radha. \n\nThe \"Bhagavata Purana\" narrates: Once, an adult Krishna visited his cousins – the five Pandava brothers with their common wife Draupadi and their mother Kunti in their capital Indraprastha (modern-day Delhi), located on the banks of the Yamuna. The eldest Pandava Yudhishthira requests Krishna to stay with them for a couple of days. One day, Krishna and the middle Pandava Arjuna go for hunting in the forest. During their hunting, Arjuna was tired. He and Krishna went to the Yamuna and bathed and drank the clear water. There, a lovely girl was strolling along the river bank. Krishna who saw her and asked Arjuna to meet her to know who she was. When Arjuna inquired, the girl told him that she was Kalindi, the daughter of Surya, and that she was living in a house constructed by her father in the river where she has been was performing austerities with intent to have Vishnu as her husband and would remain there, until she finds him. Arjuna conveys Kalindi's message to Krishna, the avatar of Vishnu, who readily agreed to marry the beautiful damsel. Then they traveled to Indraprastha with Kalindi in the chariot and met Yudhishthira. After a stay of few days there, Krishna and Kalindi returned to his capital Dwarka with their entourage and duly married each other. According to \"Bhagavata Purana\" she had ten sons: Shruta, Kavi, Vrsa, Vira, Subahu, Bhadra, Santi, Darsa, Purnamasa and the youngest, Somaka. The \"Vishnu Purana\" mentions that she had many sons headed by Shruta.\n\nThe \"Bhagavata Purana\" also narrates: Krishna's elder brother Balarama was staying in Ambadi on Yamuna's banks for a few months. Once, he was frolicking with the gopis on the river banks and desired to play in the waters. Intoxicated with liquor and experiencing heat of the alcohol, Balarama felt to take a bath in the river. However, he refused to walk to the waters and called upon the river to come near him, but the chaste Yamuna refused despite repeated orders from Balarama. An angry Balarama dragged the river by his weapon – the plough and changed its course, hurting the river goddess. Terrified, the river assumed her form as a goddess and bowed to Balarama and asked his forgiveness. A calmed Balarama ordered the river to flood the forest so he could bathe and play in her waters, and the river complied.\n\nYamuna is one of the holiest rivers in Hinduism. Yamuna is only second to the Ganges (Ganga), the holiest river in Hinduism. Her confluence with the Ganges and the mythical Sarasvati rivers, Triveni Sangam, is very holy pilgrimage spot. Other pilgrimage sites along the river banks include Yamuna's source Yamunotri, Mathura and Bateshvar.\n\nThe \"Mahabharata\" mentions Yamuna being one of the 7 tributaries of the Ganges. Drinking its waters is described to absolve sin. The river is mentioned many times in the epic as backdrop for events like yajnas (sacrifices), austerities and even a suicide by a defeated minister Hamsa of Jarasandha.\n\nVarious Puranas narrate the greatness of bathing in the Yamuna. The \"Padma Purana\" narrates the story of two brothers, who lived a life of indulgence and lust and gave up the virtuous ways. They finally plunged in poverty and resorted to robbery and were killed by beasts in the forest. Both of them reached Yama's court for judgement. While the elder brother was sentenced to Naraka (hell), the younger was granted Svarga (heaven). Astonished, the younger brother asked the reason for it, as both lived similar lives. Yama explained that the younger brother had lived in the ashram of a sage on Yamuna's banks and bathed in the sacred river for two months. The first month absolved him of sins and the second one granted him place in heaven.\n\n"}
{"id": "12624979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12624979", "title": "Yemen LNG", "text": "Yemen LNG\n\nYemen LNG (also called YLNG) is the first natural gas liquefaction (LNG) project in Yemen. The LNG plant is located in Balhaf.\n\nYemen LNG Company was incorporated in 1995 to develop the LNG plant. In 1997, the development was halted because of the Asian economic crisis. The project was launched only in August 2005 after signing three LNG supply contracts. On 29 October 2007, Yemen LNG and Yemen state-owned oil and gas company Safer Exploration and Production agreed a 20-year contract, according to which Safer grants the LNG plant with supply up to 12.5 billion cubic meter (bcm) of gas per year from the Block 18 of the Marib-Jawf field. The production started on 15 October 2009.\n\nThe project comprises upstream gas processing facilities including a transfer line linking processing units, a spur-line for transporting gas to the Ma'bar area and a , pipeline connecting the gas processing facilities to the LNG plant. The plant consists of two LNG trains with the total capacity of 6.7 million tonnes per year. The contractors for the construction of LNG trains were Technip, JGC, and Kellogg Brown & Root. The project is one of the country's first big project financing with total cost of US$4 billion, involving US$3 billion in debt being raised from a syndicate of banks. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, ING Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Société Générale, and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation are the initial mandated lead arrangers and bookrunners on a loan.\n\nThe consortium is led by Total S.A. (39.62%) in cooperation with Hunt Oil Company (17.22%), Yemen Gas Company (YGC; 16.73%), SK Corp. (9.55%), Kogas (6.00%), Hyundai Corporation (5.88%), and the General Authority for Social Security & Pensions of Yemen (5.00%). On 30 June 2010, Russia's government announced that Russian gas company Gazprom may buy Hunt Oil's stake, possibly together with Saudi Arabia.\n\nYemen LNG has SPAs ('Sale and Purchase Agreement') to supply:\n\nAll SPAs last from 2009–2029.\n\nEarly November 2017, Total S.A. and Engie announced an agreement whereby Total S.A. would buy all Engie's LNG production in the world; it is assumed that this agreement covers Engie's prior SPA with Yemen LNG.\n\nDue to the civil war raging in Yemen (Yemeni Civil War (2015–present)), the Yemen LNG partners stopped gas production, liquefaction and export in April 2015. At end 2018, the production and exports had not yet resumed.\n\n"}
{"id": "55040125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55040125", "title": "Zilch (electromagnetism)", "text": "Zilch (electromagnetism)\n\nIn physics, zilch is a conserved quantity of the electromagnetic field.\n\nDaniel M. Lipkin observed that if he defined the quantities \n\nthen the Maxwell equations imply that\n\nwhich implies that the total \"zilch\" formula_3 is constant (formula_4 is the \"zilch current\"). Generalising the result, Lipkin found nine related conservation laws, all unrelated to the stress-energy tensor. He named the quantity zilch because of the apparent lack of physical significance.\n\nZilch can also be expressed using the dual electromagnetic tensor formula_5 as\nformula_6.\n\nIt was later demonstrated that zilch is part of an infinite number of zilch-like conserved quantities, a general property of free fields. \n\nZilch has occasionally been rediscovered. It has been called \"optical chirality\", since it determines the degree of chiral asymmetry in the rate of excitation of a small chiral molecule by an incident electromagnetic field. A physical interpretation of zilch was offered in 2012; zilch is to the curl or time derivative of the electromagnetic field what helicity, spin and related quantities are to the electromagnetic field itself. The conservation of zilch is not associated with duality transformations, but instead with a more subtle symmetry transformation, which has no special name.\n"}
