{"id": "58634897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58634897", "title": "108th Grey Cup", "text": "108th Grey Cup\n\nThe 108th Grey Cup will be played to decide the Canadian Football League (CFL) championship for the 2020 season. The game will be televised in Canada nationally on TSN and RDS.\n\nAs speculated with the 107th Grey Cup, the date for this game could come much earlier than in previous years. Currently, the Grey Cup is played on the fourth or fifth Sunday of November, as has been the case since 2007. During the CFL's State of the League address on November 24, 2017, League Commissioner Randy Ambrosie suggested that the league could potentially move the date to the third week of October. This would easily surpass the previous earliest date of November 16 (occurring in 1997 and 2003). Reasons in favour of this were the weather being warmer in October as well as a potential television deal with the American-based NFL Network. The league's current American broadcasting agreement expires after the 2018 CFL season and the season schedule is thought to be worked around this agreement. Reasons against would be the increased overlap of the National Hockey League's Stanley Cup playoffs in May and June (since the season would also have to start one month earlier) as well as the CFL's playoffs overlapping Major League Baseball's playoffs in October. On November 23, 2018, Commissioner Ambrosie confirmed that the league schedule would start one week earlier, making the date for this year's game November 15, 2020.\n\nAs of August 2018, three teams were interested in submitting bids as the league met with representatives of those unnamed clubs in Hamilton. Based on the location of the meeting and their previously-stated desire to host, the Hamilton Tiger-Cats were speculated to be one of the teams. The previous obstacle of the lawsuit over the construction of Tim Hortons Field was settled on May 31, 2018, which had prevented the Tiger-Cats from bidding on a Grey Cup game. The Tiger-Cats had previously expressed interest in submitting a bid for the 107th Grey Cup and with litigation cleared, they can move forward with bidding to host their first championship game since the 84th Grey Cup in 1996. \n\nThe first club to openly confirm their plans to bid were the Saskatchewan Roughriders, as stated by the club's president and CEO, Craig Reynolds, on October 1, 2018. The game would coincide with the 110th anniversary of the club and would be the fourth time the game would be hosted in Saskatchewan, if successful. The Roughriders' new facility, Mosaic Stadium, opened in 2017 and the Roughriders last hosted the Grey Cup in 2013.\n\nOn November 4, 2018, it was reported that the Montreal Alouettes were preparing a bid to see Olympic Stadium host the 2020 championship game. The Alouettes confirmed that they had representatives in Toronto on November 6, 2018 to make their presentation at the league head office to host the game.\n\nIt was confirmed on November 13, 2018 that the Tiger-Cats were indeed making a bid for the game as team representatives made their presentation to the league head office in Toronto the week prior. Their Grey Cup festival concept included a downtown-centred event at venues like the Hamilton Convention Centre and Art Gallery of Hamilton. The Tiger-Cats' president of business operations, Matt Afinec, confirmed that the club had support from Hamilton's mayor, Fred Eisenberger, and that three bids for the Grey Cup game had been made.\n\nThe CFL's Grey Cup director, Céline Séguin, had previously stated that the league would like to announce hosts sooner. With the previous year's game being announced 19 months prior, this game could be declared much earlier. As stated in the Roughriders' press release, the announcement is expected later in 2018 (at most, 23 months prior).\n\nAs part of an April Fools' Day joke in 2016, the league had announced that the 2020 Grey Cup would be hosted in a secret Arctic location on November 29, 2020. A stadium would have been airlifted in by helicopter to seat 50,000 spectators in what would have been the most northern Grey Cup in history.\n"}
{"id": "54116515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54116515", "title": "1806 Birgu polverista explosion", "text": "1806 Birgu polverista explosion\n\nThe Birgu polverista explosion was the accidental detonation of ammunition in the gunpowder magazine (polverista) of Birgu in the British Malta Protectorate on 18 July 1806. The explosion occurred due to negligence while transferring shells from the magazine, and it resulted in the detonation of of gunpowder. It killed approximately 200 people, including British and Maltese military personnel and Maltese civilians from Birgu. Parts of the city's fortifications, some naval stores, and many houses were destroyed, and the affected area became known as \"l-Imġarraf\" (Maltese for \"the destroyed\").\n\nIn the 18th and early 19th centuries, the main gunpowder store in Birgu was located in a casemate within the city walls, close to the \"Porta Marina\". This was an improvised measure; the casemate was not intended to be used as a gunpowder magazine, but such practice was common at the time. Gunpowder was also stored in casemates at other locations, such as Fort St. Angelo, Fort Ricasoli, and Mdina. The Birgu magazine was located close to civilian housing, and the residents had complained about the dangers before the explosion. Preparations had been made to find alternative sites but nothing had been done; the storerooms that were meant to store gunpowder were being used as barracks or military hospitals.\n\nThe 1806 explosion was not the first time that a gunpowder disaster occurred in Malta. On 12 September 1634, a gunpowder factory in Valletta blew up, killing 22 people and causing severe damage to the Church of the Jesuits and the nearby college. In 1662, gunpowder that was stored in an echaugette on one of Valletta's counterguards exploded after being hit by lightning, but there were no casualties.\n\nIn July 1806, British forces in Malta were preparing ammunition stocks to be sent to Sicily after ammunition there had run low, since it had been used to relieve the defending garrison of Gaeta which had been under siege by the French. On 18 July, a working party of 13 men commanded by garrison gunner Bdr. Anderson were preparing a consignment of shells from the Birgu magazine, which was filled at full capacity with 370 barrels containing of gunpowder, as well as 1,600 shells and grenades. Anderson was using a metal chisel to remove the fuses from live shells, which was contrary to instructions, and this resulted in sparks which caused a massive explosion at 06:15. \n\nAnderson and the working party were killed immediately, as were three British soldiers of the 39th (Dorsetshire) Regiment of Foot and 23 Maltese soldiers of the 2nd Provincial Battalion. Between 150 and 200 civilians from Birgu were also killed, and approximately 100 others were injured by falling debris. The explosion frightened the inhabitants of Birgu, and it was also heard in the nearby cities of Senglea and Cospicua, as well as in the surrounding villages.\n\nThe magazine was located within the city's fortifications, and a section of the walls \"went up in the air\" and left a large breach. The city gate at the Porta Marina, a small bastion, and part of a curtain wall were all destroyed and were never rebuilt. Parts of the Navy Store Houses were also damaged or destroyed during the explosion. Birgu's cityscape was also altered by the explosion, since a large number of houses were destroyed or damaged by the explosion itself and by the rocks which fell from the bastions. Four hundred ninety-three people reported property losses due to the explosion.\n\nMany Maltese people were angered at the loss of lives caused by negligence on behalf of the military. Civil Commissioner Alexander Ball reported that:\n\nVictims and their families were paid partial compensation, and Ball set up a committee overseeing aid distribution. He also urged the government to pay full compensation. This was initially denied, but eventually the poorer classes received a compensation equivalent to two thirds of their property which had been destroyed, while those of the upper classes received half of the value of their property. In 1811, £18,066.5s.10d was evenly distributed among those who had claimed damages. A wine merchant named Woodhouse lost a large amount of wine and the government provided him with extensive storehouses at the former Slaves' Prison in Valletta as a compensation.\n\nA street close to where the explosion occurred is now known as \"Triq il-Vittmi tal-Porvlista\" (Maltese for \"Polverista Victims Street\"). The Vittoriosa Historical and Cultural Society installed a plaque at the St. Lawrence Cemetery on the 200th anniversary of the disaster in 2006, where most of the victims were buried.\n\n"}
{"id": "19488498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19488498", "title": "2000 Australia Beechcraft King Air crash", "text": "2000 Australia Beechcraft King Air crash\n\nOn Monday 4 September 2000, a chartered Beechcraft 200 Super King Air departed Perth for a flight to the mining town of Leonora, Western Australia. The aircraft crashed near Burketown, Queensland, Australia resulting in the deaths of all eight occupants. During the flight, the aircraft climbed above its assigned altitude. When air traffic control (ATC) contacted the pilot, the pilot's speech had become significantly impaired and he was unable to respond to instructions. Three aircraft intercepted the Beechcraft but were unable to make radio contact. The aircraft continued flying on a straight heading for five hours before running out of fuel and crashing south-east of Burketown. The accident became known in the media as the \"Ghost Flight\".\n\nA subsequent investigation concluded that the pilot and passengers had become incapacitated and had been suffering from hypoxia, a lack of oxygen to the body, meaning the pilot would have been unable to operate the aircraft. Towards the end of the flight, the left engine began to be starved of fuel and the aircraft crashed into the ground. The accident report said that, due to extensive damage to the aircraft, investigators were unable to conclude if any of the eight aboard had used the oxygen system. The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) final report could not determine what incapacitated the occupants. A number of safety recommendations were made following the accident.\n\nThe aircraft involved in the accident was a Beechcraft 200 Super King Air, registration VH-SKC, serial number BB-47, manufactured in 1975. The aircraft had about 19,000 hours of service before the accident. The amount of air passed into the cabin is controlled by bleed air valves on the engines. The positions of the bleed air valves can be altered by the pilot. According to the accident report, \"The aircraft was not fitted with a high cabin altitude aural warning device, nor was it required to be.\" The aircraft was fitted with an emergency oxygen system—an oxygen tank which could supply oxygen to the crew through two masks located in the cockpit and to passengers through masks which drop from the ceiling of the cabin.\n\nAccident investigators concluded the aircraft was airworthy at the time the accident occurred, and a pilot who flew the aircraft earlier in the day said the aircraft functioned normally. \"The maintenance release was current and an examination of the aircraft’s maintenance records found no recurring maintenance problems that may have been factors in the accident,\" the accident report stated.\n\nOn 4 September 2000, the Beechcraft, chartered by mining company Sons of Gwalia, departed Perth, Western Australia, for the town of Leonora, Western Australia, On board were seven mine workers travelling to Gwalia Gold Mine. The aircraft took off from Perth at 6:09 pm local time (1009 Coordinated Universal Time (UTC)), and was cleared by ATC to climb to FL130 (). Five minutes later, at 1015, it was further cleared to its cruising altitude of FL250 (); with an instruction to be at FL160 by from Perth. The pilot acknowledged this transmission.\n\nFive minutes later, at 1020, as the aircraft climbed through FL156 () it was cleared to waypoint DEBRA. The pilot again acknowledged. At approximately 1033 the aircraft passed through its cleared level and at FL256 () ATC asked the pilot to confirm his altitude. “Sierra Kilo Charlie–um–standby,\" the pilot said. This was the final spoken transmission from the aircraft, and its climb continued. According to the accident report, several open-microphone transmissions followed, with the sound of background noise from the engines, a person breathing, \"one unintelligible syllable\", and \"two chime-like tones, similar to those generated by electronic devices.\" During this time ATC attempted to regain contact with the pilot. \"Sierra Kilo Charlie Sierra Kilo Charlie, Melbourne Centre, if receiving this transmission squawk ident\" the controller said at 1040. At 1041, the controller asked again, \"Sierra Kilo Charlie, only receiving open mike from you. Would you contact me on one two five decimal two.\"\nThe aircraft continued to climb and left radar coverage at 1102, passing FL325 (). Thirty-one minutes later, Australian Search and Rescue asked the crew of a business jet to approach the Beechcraft. They reported that it was in level flight at FL343 (), and they could see no movement on the flight deck or in the cabin. However, the conditions made it difficult to observe closely.\n\nTwo other aircraft which were asked to monitor the Beechcraft intercepted it over the Northern Territory, north-west of Alice Springs. The pilots reported that it was now in a steady descent, and both aircraft followed it as its airspeed increased. \"Although its external lights were on, nothing could be seen inside the cabin\" the accident report stated. \"The crews of the chase aircraft attempted to contact the pilot of the Beechcraft by radio but they did not receive a response.\" At 1510, the aircraft turned left through 90 degrees as it descended through . About south-east of Burketown, Queensland, it hit the ground and broke up. The pilot and seven passengers were killed.\n\nThe accident was investigated by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), a federal body responsible for investigating transportation accidents in Australia. The final accident report was published in March 2001. The report was unable to make a definitive conclusion as to the cause of the crash.\n\nThe report found all those aboard the aircraft, including the pilot, had likely become incapacitated and begun suffering from hypoxia.\n\nThe accident report stated, \"After the aircraft climbed above the assigned altitude of FL250, the speech and breathing patterns of the pilot, evidenced during the radio transmissions, displayed changes consistent with hypoxia.\" Investigators were, however, unable to conclusively dismiss toxic fumes as the cause. \"The incapacitation of the pilot and passengers was probably due to hypobaric hypoxia because of the high cabin altitude and their not receiving supplemental oxygen\" the report said, adding, \"The reasons for the pilot and passengers not receiving supplemental oxygen [from the oxygen tank aboard the aircraft] could not be determined.\"\n\nThe ATSB found it likely that the autopilot was engaged and this caused the aircraft to fly on a straight heading; the vertical path of the aircraft indicated climb power had been set before the occupants of the aircraft were incapacitated. \"The design of the aircraft systems were such that, with the autopilot engaged, the engines would continue to operate and the aircraft would continue to fly without human input until it was disrupted by other events, such as collision or fuel exhaustion,\" according to the accident report. It was suggested that, towards the end of the flight, the fuel tank for the left engine was almost empty. \"The near exhaustion of fuel in the left wing tanks may have produced at least one, and probably several, momentary losses of left engine power shortly before all power was lost\" the report said. \"The aircraft yawed and rolled towards the left engine, as was observed shortly before the aircraft collided with the ground.\"\n\nThe accident report said due to the damage to the aircraft upon impact with the ground, investigators were unable to conclude if any of the eight aboard used the oxygen system. However, the report stated \"The absence of a distress radio call, or an attempt to descend the aircraft, and the likelihood that the pilot did not don his oxygen mask, suggested that the pilot was unaware that the aircraft was unpressurised or depressurising.\" The passengers, the report added, were also likely not wearing their oxygen masks, as there was no noise recorded on the ATC transmissions indicating they were attempting to assist the pilot.\n\nInvestigators were not able to determine what caused the depressurisation of the aircraft, but stated likely causes included either an incorrect switch selection due to pilot error or a mechanical failure in the aircraft pressurisation system. The air traffic control recordings suggested it was unlikely a rapid decompression had occurred. \"During an explosive or rapid depressurisation of a pressurised aircraft, however, the noise, pressure changes, temperature changes and draughts within the cabin would have alerted the occupants that a substantial failure had occurred,\" the report added. The document listed the two main factors in the accident as,\n\nIn the aftermath of an incident in 1999 in which the pilot of a Beechcraft Super King Air suffered hypoxia, the ATSB published Report 199902928 and recommended an aural warning be fitted on the flight deck of all Australian Beechcraft Super King Air aircraft. The flight deck of the Beechcraft Super King Air only has visual warning of inadequate cabin pressure.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Ghost Flight, the Civil Aviation Safety Authority issued a Discussion Paper and a Notice of Proposed Rule Making (NPRM), both proposing aural warning in the Beechcraft Super King Air and other pressurised aircraft. The outcome of consultation on the NPRM was that the Civil Aviation Safety Authority did not mandate aural warning of inadequate cabin pressure and this angered the families of some of the victims. Instead, the Civil Aviation Safety Authority issued a notice to owners of pressurised aircraft registered in Australia recommending installation of an aural warning, but not making it mandatory. The notice said, \"The benefit to your pilots and passengers lies in the reduction in risk of an uncommanded depressurisation leading to an incident or fatal accident. The benefit is much greater than the cost of purchase and installation of one of these low-cost systems.\"\n\nThe West Australian Coroner, Mr. Alistair Hope, conducted an inquest into the deaths of the eight occupants of the aircraft. The inquest determined that the deaths were accidental, but was unable to determine the cause of the crash. The Coroner recommended an aural alarm system for pressurised aircraft, and a low-cost \"black box\" flight recorder.\n\nThe Coroner was critical of the poor co-ordination between the ATSB, the Queensland Police and the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA). He also criticised the ATSB for failing to take notes when interviewing witnesses, and for its poor presentation of evidence.\n\nWhen the air traffic controller responsible for the Beechcraft received the open-microphone transmissions, he alerted his supervisor that he was concerned the pilot could be suffering from hypoxia. The controller and his supervisor completed the standard checklist which, at the time, did not include a procedure to follow in the case of incapacitation or hypoxia. In the aftermath of the accident, the checklist was changed to \"incorporate procedures to be followed by air traffic controllers, when a controller suspects that a pilot has been affected by hypoxia.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22401156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22401156", "title": "2001 Turkish economic crisis", "text": "2001 Turkish economic crisis\n\nThroughout the 1980s and 1990s, Turkey relied heavily on foreign investment for economic growth, with trade above 40% of GNP. The Turkish government and banking systems lacked the financial means to support meaningful economic growth. The government was already running enormous budget deficits, and one of the ways it managed to sustain these was by selling huge quantities of high-interest bonds to Turkish banks. Continuing inflation (likely a result of the enormous flow of foreign capital into Turkey) meant that the government could avoid defaulting on the bonds in the short term. As a consequence, Turkish banks came to rely on these high-yield bonds as a primary investment.\n\nIn March 1997 a Coalition was formed between the Motherland Party's Mesut Yılmaz and the True Path Party's Tansu Çiller. The plan was for Yilmaz and Cillar to alternate the Prime Ministry. However, there was much public distraction caused by leader of the Welfare Party Necmettin Erbakan's threats to investigate Cillar for corruption. Meanwhile, Erbakan, who had been excluded from the coalition, did everything he could to rally support for an Islamic NATO, and an Islamic version of the European Union.\n\nThe Motherland Coalition collapsed in part because of Erbakan's widespread public support. Addition tensions wreaked havoc on the government. Yilmaz was forced to resign on June 6, 1996, with the government having lasted for only 90 days. Erbakan became Prime Minister on June 29 as the head of a Welfare/True Path coalition.\nThe success of the new Welfare-Path Coalition was viewed with hostility by the military. Erbakan's explicitly Islamist policies resulted in a post modern coup in which the military forced Erbakan to yield power to Demirel who yielded to Yilmaz on June 19, 1997. The political fighting between Yilmaz and Cillar on one side, and Erbakan on the other would continue, making coalitions difficult to create. In addition, corruption was rampant at this time. People were highly disillusioned with their government. This lack of faith and efficacy would cause foreign nations to carefully examine any investment in Turkey.\n\nThe International Monetary Fund (IMF) team in 1996 warned of an impending financial crisis because of the deficit, which soon came into being. Turkey's unstable political landscape led many foreign investors to divest from the country. As foreign investors observed the political turmoil and the government's attempts to eliminate the budget deficit, they withdrew $70 billion worth of capital from the country in a matter of months. This left a vacuum of capital that Turkish banks were unable to alleviate because the government was no longer able to pay off its bonds. With no capital to speak of, the Turkish economy slowed dramatically.\n\nIn November 2000, the IMF provided Turkey with $11.4 billion in loans and Turkey sold many of its state-owned industries in an effort to balance the budget. In the case of Turkish Airlines, advertisements were placed in newspapers to attract offers for a 51% stake in the company. By 2000 there was massive unemployment, a lack of medicine, tight credit, slow production to fight inflation and increasing taxes. Stabilisation efforts had yet to produce any meaningful effects, and the IMF loan was widely seen as insufficient.\n\nOn February 19, 2001, Prime Minister Ecevit emerged from a meeting with President Sezer saying, \"This is a serious crisis.\" This underscored financial and political instability and led to further panic in the markets. Stocks plummeted and the interest rate reached 3,000%. Large quantities of Turkish lira were exchanged for U.S. dollars or euro, causing the Turkish central bank to lose $5 billion of its reserves.\n\nThe crash triggered even more economic turmoil. In the first eight months of 2001, 14,875 jobs were lost, the dollar rose to 1,500,000 liras, and income inequality had risen from its already high level.\n\nThe crash was emblematic of the political and economic problems that had been wearing on Turkey for years. Confidence in the government had been eroded by corruption and the inability to form lasting coalitions. The stock market crash revealed Turkey's economic situation to be not only extremely fragile but also entirely dependent on foreign investment. Although not as significant as decreased foreign investment or the massive budget deficit, the crash highlights Turkey's recent political instability.\n\nCritical interpretations look more fundamentally at the effects of the 2001 crisis on Turkish society and its post-1980s turn to neoliberalism. According to one journal article, the 2001 Turkish crisis and state-organised rescue served to preserve, renew, and intensify \"the structurally unequal social relations of power and class characteristic of\nfinance-led neoliberal capitalism\" in ways institutionally specific to Turkish society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30914774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30914774", "title": "2011 Algerian self-immolations", "text": "2011 Algerian self-immolations\n\nIn 2011, as the widely reported protests sparked off by Mohamed Bouazizi's self-immolation in Tunisia began to have a clear impact on the Tunisian government, a wave of self-immolations swept Algeria. These individual acts of protest mostly took place in front of a government building following an unsuccessful approach to the authorities. Four self-immolators have died of their burns so far.\n\nIt began on 12 January, when 26-year-old Mohamed Aouichia set himself on fire in Bordj Menaiel in the compound of the \"daira\" building. He had been sharing a room of 30 square metres with seven other people, including his sister, since 2003; he had repeatedly approached local authorities to get on the social housing list and been rebuffed. He has so far survived.\n\nOn 13 January, Mohsen Bouterfif, a 37-year-old father of two, set himself on fire. He had gone with about twenty other youths to protest in front of the town hall of Boukhadra in Tebessa demanding jobs and houses, after the mayor refused to receive them. According to one testimony, the mayor shouted to them: \"If you have courage, do like Bouazizi did, set yourself on fire!\" His death was reported on 16 January, and about 100 youths protested his death causing the provincial governor to sack the mayor. However, hospital staff the following day claimed he was still alive, though in critical condition. Al Jazeera described the suicide as \"echoing the self-immolation that triggered the protests that toppled the leader of neighbouring Tunisia.\" He finally died on 24 January at a hospital in Annaba.\n\nThese suicides were followed by dozens more attempted or successful self-immolations across the country, so far without triggering nationwide demonstrations, most of them after the Tunisian dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled his country on 14 January; cases included:\n\nThe Ministry of Religious Affairs responded to this wave of self-immolations by devoting the Friday sermons of 21 January to admonitions of patience and reminders that suicide is forbidden in Islam. However, some cases continued to be reported over coming days:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53654189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53654189", "title": "2021 Summer Universiade", "text": "2021 Summer Universiade\n\nThe 2021 Summer Universiade, the XXXI Summer Universiade, will be organised at the second semester of 2021,in a place to be announced. It was virtually scheduled for Ashgabat, in Turkmenistan in July or August 2021.\n\nOn 1 September 2014, FISU launched of the bidding process for the 2021 Winter and Summer Universiades.. Although not officially announced, it was virtually certain that Ashgabat, the capital of Turkmenistan would host the event, but for unknown reasons the city withdrew.\n\nIn March 2015, days after the closing ceremonies of 2015 Winter Universiade FISU has been informed about the intention of Bucharest, capital of Romania to make a bid for the 2021 Summer Universiade. If Bucharest wins the bidding process this will be the second time which the city will host the Summer Universiade. The first time was in 1981.\n\nIn July 2016, FISU has been informed about the intention of the city of Santiago de Cali, Colombia interested in hosting the 2021 Summer Universiade. If Cali wins,this will be the second South American city to host the Summer Universiade the first was Porto Alegre, Brazil in 1963, the first since 1979 to be held in Latin America, and the first since 1993 to be held in the Americas.\n\nOn October 4, 2018, it was announced by the mayor of Seoul that there were joint negotiations between the city, the capital of North Korea, Pyongyang and FISU, so that both cities could host the Summer Universiade of 2021, the proposal would be that the opening ceremony would be held in Seoul, while the closure would be in Pyongyang. If the talks come to fruition, this will be the third time in history that the Summer Universiade would be held in South Korea, the first time was in 2003 in Daegu and the second was in 2015 in Gwangju.The country also hosted the 1997 Winter Universiade,in Muju County and the Jeonju city. This could be the first time in history that the two countries will host the Summer Universiade.\nThis has already happened at the 2015 Winter Universiade, when due to the extremely high risk of an environmental disaster, the Spanish city of Granada was unable to host the nordic skiing and biathlon events and they have been transferred to FISU approved to move the Nordic Skiing and Biathlon events to Štrbské Pleso and Osrblie in Slovakia.\n"}
{"id": "38243127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38243127", "title": "Abd al-Rahman ibn Muhammad ibn al-Ash'ath", "text": "Abd al-Rahman ibn Muhammad ibn al-Ash'ath\n\nʿAbd al-Raḥmān ibn Muḥammad ibn al-Ashʿath (), commonly known as Ibn al-Ashʿath after his grandfather, was a distinguished Arab nobleman and general under the early Umayyad Caliphate, most notable for leading a failed rebellion against the Umayyad viceroy of the east, al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf, in 700–703.\n\nThe scion of a distinguished family of the Kindaite tribal nobility, he played a minor role in the Second Fitna (680–692) and then served as governor of Rayy. After the appointment of al-Hajjaj as governor of Iraq and the eastern provinces of the Caliphate in 694, relations between the haughty and overbearing al-Hajjaj and the Iraqi nobility quickly became strained. Nevertheless, in 699 or 700, al-Hajjaj appointed Ibn al-Ash'ath as commander of a huge Iraqi army, the so-called \"Peacock Army\", to subdue the troublesome principality of Zabulistan, whose ruler, the \"Zunbīl\", vigorously resisted Arab expansion. During the campaign, al-Hajjaj's overbearing behaviour caused Ibn al-Ash'ath and the army to rebel. After patching up an agreement with the \"Zunbīl\", the army started on its march back to Iraq. On the way, a mutiny against al-Hajjaj developed into a full-fledged anti-Umayyad rebellion.\n\nAl-Hajjaj initially retreated before the rebels' superior numbers, but quickly defeated and drove them out of Basra. Nevertheless, the rebels seized Kufa, where supporters started flocking. The revolt gained widespread support among those who were discontented with the Umayyad regime, especially the religious scholars known as \"qurrāʾ\" (\"Quran readers\"). Caliph Abd al-Malik tried to negotiate terms, including the dismissal of al-Hajjaj, but the hardliners among the rebel leadership pressured Ibn al-Ash'ath into rejecting the Caliph's terms. In the subsequent Battle of Dayr al-Jamajim, the rebel army was decisively defeated by al-Hajjaj's Syrian troops. Al-Hajjaj pursued the survivors, who under Ibn al-Ash'ath fled to the east. Most of the rebels were captured by the governor of Khurasan, while Ibn al-Ash'ath himself fled to Zabulistan. His fate is unclear, as some accounts hold that, after long pressure from al-Hajjaj to surrender him, the \"Zunbīl\" executed him, while most sources claim that he committed suicide to avoid being handed over to his enemies.\n\nThe suppression of Ibn al-Ash'ath's revolt signalled the end of the power of the tribal nobility of Iraq, which henceforth came under the direct control of the Umayyad regime's staunchly loyal Syrian troops. Later revolts, under Yazid ibn al-Muhallab and Zayd ibn Ali, also failed, and it was not until the success of the Abbasid Revolution that the Syrian dominance of Iraq was broken.\n\nAbd al-Rahman ibn Muhammad ibn al-Ash'ath was a descendant of a noble family from the Kinda tribe in the Hadramawt. His grandfather Ma'dikarib, better known by his nickname \"al-Ash'ath\" (\"He with the dishevelled hair\"), was an important chieftain who submitted to Muhammad, but rebelled during the Ridda wars. Defeated, he was pardoned and married Caliph Abu Bakr's sister. He went on to participate in the crucial battles of the early Muslim conquests, Yarmouk and Qadisiyya, as well as in the Battle of Siffin, where he was instrumental in forcing Ali to abandon his military advantage and submit to arbitration, and later led the Kindaite quarter in Kufa, where he died in 661. His father Muhammad was far less distinguished, serving an unsuccessful tenure as governor of Tabaristan, and becoming involved in the Second Fitna as a supporter of Ibn al-Zubayr, being killed in 686/7 in the campaign that overthrew al-Mukhtar. Like his father at Siffin, he is denigrated by pro-Alid sources for his ambiguous role in the Battle of Karbala in 680, being held responsible for the arrests of Muslim ibn Aqil and Hani ibn Urwa. Ibn al-Ash'ath's mother, Umm Amr, was the daughter of Sa'id ibn Qays al-Hamdani. He had four brothers, Ishaq, Qasim, Sabbah, and Isma'il, of whom the first three also fought in the campaigns in Tabaristan.\n\nAccording to al-Tabari, the young Ibn al-Ash'ath accompanied his father and participated in his political activities: in 680 he revealed the hiding-place of Muslim ibn Aqil to the authorities, and he fought in the campaign against al-Mukhtar in which his father was killed, and reportedly executed (or persuaded Mu'sab ibn al-Zubayr to execute) al-Mukhtar's captured followers in revenge. Ibn al-Ash'ath disappears from the record during the next few years, but after Mu'sab ibn al-Zubayr was defeated and killed by the Umayyad caliph Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan in October 691, he, like other followers of Mu'sab, apparently went over to the Umayyads. In early 692, Abd al-Malik's brother Bishr put him in command of over 5,000 Kufans for a campaign against the Kharijites threatening al-Ahwaz. The Kharijites retreated before the far larger caliphal army, led by Khalid ibn Abdallah ibn Khalid ibn Asid, and Ibn al-Ash'ath went on to take up the governorship of Rayy.\n\nIn 694, Abd al-Malik appointed the trusted and capable al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf as the new governor of Iraq, a crucial post given the restiveness of the region towards Umayyad rule. In 697, his remit was expanded to cover the entirety of the eastern Caliphate, including Khurasan and Sistan.\n\nIn 695, al-Hajjaj entrusted Ibn al-Ash'ath with 6,000 horsemen and the campaign against the Kharijite rebels under Shabib ibn Yazid ibn Nu'aym al-Shaybani. Although not large, this group benefited from Shabib's tactical skill and inflicted a number of defeats on Umayyad forces. Advised by the general al-Jazl Uthman ibn Sa'id, Ibn al-Ash'ath pursued the Kharijites but displayed great caution in order to avoid falling into a trap. As a result, the governor of al-Mada'in, Uthman ibn Qatan, wrote to al-Hajjaj criticizing Ibn al-Ash'ath's leadership. Al-Hajjaj responded by giving command to Uthman, but when the latter attacked Shabib, the Umayyad army suffered a heavy defeat, losing around 900 men and fleeing to Kufa; Uthman himself was killed, while Ibn al-Ash'ath, who lost his horse, managed to escape with the help of a friend and reached Kufa after an eventful journey. There he remained in hiding until al-Hajjaj granted him pardon.\n\nDespite his setback, relations between Ibn al-Ash'ath and al-Hajjaj were friendly initially, and al-Hajjaj's son married one of Ibn al-Ash'ath's sisters. Gradually, however, the two men became estranged. The sources attribute this to Ibn al-Ash'ath's overweening pride as one of the foremost of the \"ashrāf\", the tribal nobility, and his aspirations to leadership: al-Mas'udi records that he adopted the title of \"Nāṣir al-muʾminīn\" (\"Helper of the Faithful\"), an implicit challenge to the Umayyads, who were implied to be false believers. In addition, he claimed to be the \"Qaḥṭānī\", a messianic figure in South Arab (Yamani) tribal tradition who was expected to raise them to domination. Ibn al-Ash'ath's pretensions irked al-Hajjaj, whose hostile remarks—such as \"Look how he walks! How I should like to cut off his head!\"—were conveyed to Ibn al-Ash'ath and served to deepen their hostility to outright mutual hatred. According to L. Veccia Vaglieri, however, these reports are more indicative of the Arabic sources' tendency to \"explain historical events by incidents relating to persons\", rather than the actual relationship between the two men, especially given the fact that Ibn al-Ash'ath faithfully served al-Hajjaj in a number of posts, culminating in his appointment to lead the \"Peacock Army\". Nevertheless, it is clear that al-Hajjaj quickly became unpopular among the Iraqis in general through a series of measures that, according to Hugh N. Kennedy, \"[seem] almost to have goaded the Iraqis into rebellion\", such as the introduction of Syrian troops—the mainstay of the Umayyad dynasty—into Iraq, the use of Iraqi troops in the arduous and unrewarding campaigns against the Kharijites, and the reduction of the Iraqi troops' pay to a level below that of the Syrian troops.\n\nIn 698/9, the Umayyad governor of Sistan, Ubayd Allah ibn Abi Bakra, suffered a severe defeat by the semi-independent ruler of Zabulistan, known as the \"Zunbīl\". The \"Zunbīl\" drew the Arabs deep into his country and cut them off, so that they managed to extricate themselves only with great difficulty and after suffering many losses, particularly among the Kufan contingent. In response, al-Hajjaj sent an Iraqi army to the east against the \"Zunbīl\". Whether due to the splendour of its equipment or as an allusion to the \"proud and haughty manner of the Kufan soldiers and \"ashrāf\" who composed it\" (G. R. Hawting), this army became known in history as the \"Peacock Army\". Two different generals were appointed by al-Hajjaj in succession to command it, before he appointed Ibn al-Ash'ath instead. In view of their bad relations, the sources report, the appointment came as a surprise to many; an uncle of Ibn al-Ash'ath even approached al-Hajjaj and suggested that his nephew might revolt, but al-Hajjaj did not rescind his appointment. Al-Tabari suggests that al-Hajjaj relied on the fear he inspired to keep Ibn al-Ash'ath in check; modern scholarship on the other hand holds that the portrayal of the great personal animosity between the two men is likely to be exaggerated.\n\nIt is unclear whether Ibn al-Ash'ath himself had joined the army from the outset or whether, according to an alternative tradition, he had been sent to Kirman to punish a local leader who had refused to help the governors of Sistan and Sind. After taking up the leadership of the army, Ibn al-Ash'ath led it to Sistan, where he united the local troops with the \"Peacock Army\". He rejected a peace offer from the \"Zunbīl\" and—in marked contrast to his predecessor's direct assault—began a systematic campaign to first secure the lowlands surrounding the mountainous heart of the \"Zunbīl\"s kingdom: slowly and methodically, he captured the villages and fortresses one by one, installing garrisons in them and linking them with messengers. After accomplishing this task, he withdrew to Bust to spend the winter of 699/700. Once al-Hajjaj received Ibn al-Ash'ath's messages informing him of the break in operations, however, he replied in what L. Veccia Vaglieri described as \"a series of arrogant and offensive messages ordering him to penetrate into the heart of Zabulistan and there to fight the enemy to the death\". Ibn al-Ash'ath called an assembly of the army's leadership, in which he informed them of al-Hajjaj's orders for an immediate advance and his decision to refuse to obey. He then went before the assembled troops and repeated al-Hajjaj's instructions, calling upon them to decide what should be done. The troops clearly resented \"the prospect of a long and difficult campaign so far from Iraq\" (Hawting), denounced al-Hajjaj, proclaiming him deposed, and swore allegiance to Ibn al-Ash'ath instead. Ibn al-Ash'ath's brothers, however, as well as the governor of Khurasan, al-Muhallab ibn Abi Sufra, refused to join the rebellion. Ibn al-Ash'ath hastily concluded an agreement with the \"Zunbīl\", whereby if he was victorious in the coming conflict with al-Hajjaj, he would accord the \"Zunbīl\" generous treatment, while if he was defeated, the \"Zunbīl\" would provide refuge. With his rear secure, Ibn al-Ash'ath left representatives at Bust and Zaranj, and his army set out on the return journey to Iraq, picking up more soldiers from Kufa and Basra, who were stationed as garrisons, along the way. By the time the army reached Fars, it had become clear that deposing al-Hajjaj could not be done without deposing Caliph Abd al-Malik as well, and the revolt evolved from a mutiny into a full-blown anti-Umayyad uprising, with the troops renewing their oath to Ibn al-Ash'ath.\n\nThe reasons for the rebellion have been the source of much discussion and theories among modern scholars. Moving away from the personal relationship between al-Hajjaj and Ibn al-Ash'ath, Alfred von Kremer suggested that the rebellion was linked with the efforts of the non-Arab converts to Islam (the \"mawālī\") to secure equal rights with the Arab Muslims. Julius Wellhausen rejected this view as the main source of the revolt, seeing it instead as a reaction of the Iraqis in general and the \"ashrāf\" in particular against the Syrian regime of the Umayyads as represented by the overbearing (and notably low-born) al-Hajjaj. Other scholars have seen in it a manifestation of the tribal factionalism between the northern Arab and southern Arab (\"Yamani\") tribal groups prevalent at the time. Thus a poem by a certain A'sha Hamdan in celebration of the rebellion shows not only a religious but also a tribal motivation of the rebel troops: al-Hajjaj is denounced as an apostate and a \"friend of the devil\", while Ibn al-Ash'ath is portrayed as the champion of the Yamani Qahtani and Hamdani tribes against the northern Arab Ma'addis and Thaqafis. On the other hand, as Hawting points out, this is insufficient evidence to ascribe purely tribal motivations to the revolt: if Ibn al-Ash'ath's movement was indeed led largely by Yamanis, this simply reflects the fact that they were the dominant element in Kufa, and while al-Hajjaj himself was a northerner, his main commander was a southerner. Wellhausen's analysis, furthermore, ignored the evident religious dimension of the revolt, especially the participation of the fanatical zealots known as \"qurrāʾ\" (\"Quran readers\"). While the \"religious polemic used by both sides [..] is stereotyped, unspecific and to be found in other contexts\", according to Hawting, there do appear to have been specific religious grievances, notably the accusation that the Umayyads were neglecting the ritual prayer. It seems that the revolt began as a simple mutiny against an overbearing governor who made impossible demands of the troops, but, at least by the time the army reached Fars, a religious element had emerged, represented by the \"qurrāʾ\". Given the close \"interaction of religion and politics in early Muslim society\" (Hawting), the religious element quickly became dominant, as seen by the difference between the oath of allegiance (\"bayʿa\") sworn at the beginning of the revolt and that exchanged between the army and Ibn al-Ash'ath at Istakhr in Fars. While in the first Ibn al-Ash'ath declared as his intention to \"depose al-Hajjaj, the enemy of God\", in the latter, he exhorted his men to \"[defend] the Book of God and the Sunna of His Prophet, to depose the \"imāms\" of error, to fight against those who regard [the blood of the Prophet’s kin] as licit\". Although Ibn al-Ash'ath remained as the head of the uprising, Veccia Vaglieri writes that after this point \"one has the impression that [...] the control of the revolt slipped from his hands\", or that, as Wellhausen comments, \"he was urged on in spite of himself, and even if he would, could not have banished the spirits which he had called up. It was as if an avalanche came rushing down sweeping every thing before it\".\n\nThis interpretation is corroborated by the different rhetoric and actions of Ibn al-Ash'ath and his followers, as reported in the sources: the former was ready and willing to compromise with the Umayyads, and continued to fight only because he had no alternative, while the great mass of his followers, motivated by discontent against the Umayyad regime couched in religious terms, were far more uncompromising and willing to carry on the struggle until death. Al-Hajjaj himself seems to have been aware of the distinction: in suppressing the revolt, he pardoned the Quraysh, the Syrians, and many of the other Arab clans, but executed tens of thousands among the \"mawālī\" and the Zutt of the Mesopotamian Marshes, who had sided with the rebels.\n\nInformed of the revolt, al-Hajjaj requested reinforcements from the Caliph, but was unable to stop the advance of the rebel army, which is reported to have numbered 33,000 cavalry and 120,000 infantry. On 24 or 25 January 701, Ibn al-Ash'ath overwhelmed al-Hajjaj's advance guard at Tustar. At the news of this defeat, al-Hajjaj withdrew to Basra and then, as he could not possibly hold the city, left it as well for nearby al-Zawiya. Ibn al-Ash'ath entered Basra on 13 February 701. Over the next month, a series of skirmishes were fought between the forces of Ibn al-Ash'ath and al-Hajjaj, in which the former generally held the upper hand. Finally, in early March, the two armies met for a pitched battle. Ibn al-Ash'ath initially prevailed, but in the end al-Hajjaj's Syrians, under Sufyan ibn Abrad, carried off a victory. Many rebels fell, especially among the \"qurrāʾ\", forcing Ibn al-Ash'ath to withdraw to Kufa, taking with him the Kufan troops and the élite of the Basran cavalry. At Kufa, Ibn al-Ash'ath found the citadel occupied by Matar ibn Najiya, an officer from al-Mada'in, and was forced to take it by assault.\n\nHis lieutenant at Basra, the Hashimi Abd al-Rahman ibn Abbas, tried but was unable to hold the city, as the populace opened the gates in exchange for a pardon after a few days. Abd al-Rahman too withdrew with as many Basrans as would follow him to Kufa, where Ibn al-Ash'ath's forces swelled further with the arrival of large numbers of anti-Umayyad volunteers. After taking control of Basra—and executing some 11,000 of its people, despite his pledge of pardon—al-Hajjaj marched on Kufa in April 701. His army was harassed by Ibn al-Ash'ath's cavalry, but reached the environs of the city and set up camp at Dayr Qurra, on the right bank of the Euphrates so as to secure his lines of communication with Syria. In response Ibn al-Ash'ath left Kufa and with an army reportedly 200,000 strong approached al-Hajjaj's army and set up camp at Dayr al-Jamajim. Both armies fortified their camps by digging trenches and, as before, engaged in skirmishes. Whatever the true numbers of Ibn al-Ash'ath's force, al-Hajjaj was in a difficult position: his army was considerably outnumbered by the rebels, although reinforcements from Syria were constantly arriving, and his position was difficult to resupply with provisions.\n\nIn the meantime, Ibn al-Ash'ath's progress had sufficiently alarmed the Umayyad court that they sought a negotiated settlement, despite the contrary advice of al-Hajjaj. Caliph Abd al-Malik sent his brother Muhammad and son Abdallah as envoys, proposing the dismissal of al-Hajjaj, the appointment of Ibn al-Ash'ath as governor over one of the Iraqi towns, and a raise in the Iraqis' pay so that they received the same amount as the Syrians. Ibn al-Ash'ath was inclined to accept, but the more radical of his followers, especially the \"qurrāʾ\", refused, believing that the offered terms revealed the government's weakness, and pushed for outright victory. With the negotiations failing, the two armies continued to skirmish—the sources report that the skirmishing lasted for 100 days with 48 engagements. This lasted until September, when the two armies met in battle. Again Ibn al-Ash'ath initially held the upper hand, but the Syrians prevailed in the end: shortly before the sun set, Ibn al-Ash'ath's men broke and scattered. Failing to rally his troops, Ibn al-Ash'ath with a handful of followers fled to Kufa, where he took farewell of his family. As Hawting comments, the contrast \"between the discipline and organisation of the Umayyads and their largely Syrian support and the lack of these qualities among their opponents in spite of, or perhaps rather because of, the more righteous and religious flavour of the opposition\" is a recurring pattern in the civil wars of the period.\n\nVictorious, al-Hajjaj entered Kufa, where he tried and executed many rebels, but also pardoned those who submitted after admitting that through revolt they had become infidels. In the meantime, however, one of Ibn al-Ash'ath's supporters, Ubayd Allah ibn Samura, had recaptured Basra, to where Ibn al-Ash'ath now headed; and another, Muhammad ibn Sa'd ibn Abi Waqqas, had captured al-Mada'in. Al-Hajjaj remained for a month in Kufa, before setting out to meet Ibn al-Ash'ath. The two armies met at Maskin on the river Dujayl. After two weeks of skirmishing, al-Hajjaj delivered the final blow by launching a simultaneous attack on the rebel camp from two sides: while he with the main part of his army attacked from one side, a portion of his army, guided by a shepherd, crossed the marshes and launched itself on the camp from the rear. Caught by surprise, the rebel army was nearly annihilated, with many rebels drowning in the river in their attempt to flee.\n\nFollowing this renewed defeat, Ibn al-Ash'ath fled east, towards Sistan, with a few survivors. Al-Hajjaj sent troops under Umara ibn al-Tamim al-Lakhmi to intercept them. Umara caught up with them twice, at Sus and Sabur, but Ibn al-Ash'ath and his men managed to fight through to Kirman and thence to Sistan. There he was refused entry into Zaranj by his own agent (\"ʿāmil\"), and was then arrested by the \"ʿāmil\" of Bust. The \"Zunbīl\" however, true to his word, came to Bust and forced Ibn al-Ash'ath's release, taking him with him to Zabulistan and treating him with much honour. There, Ibn al-Ash'ath assumed command of some 60,000 supporters who had assembled there in the meantime. With their support, he seized Zaranj, where he punished the \"ʿāmil\". Faced with the approach of the Umayyad troops under Umara ibn al-Tamim, however, most of Ibn al-Ash'ath's followers urged him to go to Khurasan, where they would be hopefully able to recruit more followers, and sit out the Umayyad attacks until either al-Hajjaj or Caliph Abd al-Malik died and the political situation changed. Ibn al-Ash'ath bowed to their pressure, but after a group of 2,000 men defected, he returned to Zabulistan with those who would follow him there. Most of the rebels remained in Khurasan, choosing Abd al-Rahman ibn Abbas as their leader. They were soon confronted and defeated by the local governor, Yazid ibn al-Muhallab. Yazid released those who belonged to the Yamani tribes related to his own, and sent the rest to al-Hajjaj, who executed most of them. In the meantime, Umara quickly effected the surrender of Sistan, by offering lenient terms to the garrisons if they surrendered without struggle.\n\nIbn al-Ash'ath remained safe under the protection of the \"Zunbīl\", but al-Hajjaj, fearing that he might raise another revolt, sent letters to the \"Zunbīl\", mixing threats and promises, to secure his surrender. Finally, in 704 the \"Zunbīl\" gave in, in exchange for lifting the annual tribute for 7 or 10 years. Accounts of Ibn al-Ash'ath's end differ: one version holds that he was executed by the \"Zunbīl\" himself, or that he died of illness, and that his head was cut off and sent to al-Hajjaj. The more widespread account, however, holds that he was confined to a remote castle at Rukhkhaj in anticipation of his extradition to al-Hajjaj, and chained to his warden, but that he threw himself from the top of the castle (along with his warden) to his death.\n\nThe failure of Ibn al-Ash'ath's revolt led to the tightening of Umayyad control over Iraq. Al-Hajjaj founded a permanent garrison for the Syrian troops at Wasit, situated between Basra and Kufa, and the Iraqis, regardless of social status, were deprived of any real power in the governance of the region. This was coupled with a reform of the salary (\"ʿaṭāʾ\") system by al-Hajjaj: whereas hitherto the salary had been calculated based on the role of one's ancestors in the early Muslim conquests, it now became limited to those actively participating in campaigns. As most of the army was now composed of Syrians, this measure gravely injured the interests of the Iraqis, who regarded this as another impious attack on hallowed institutions. In addition, extensive land reclamation and irrigation works were undertaken in lower Iraq (the Sawad), but this was limited mostly to around Wasit, and the proceeds went to the Umayyads and their clients, not the Iraqi nobility. As a result, the political power of the once mighty Kufan élites was soon broken.\n\nIt was not until 720 that the Iraqis rebelled once again, under Yazid ibn al-Muhallab, \"the last of the old-style Iraqi champions\" (Hugh Kennedy), and even then, support was ambivalent, and the revolt was defeated. Two of Ibn al-Ash'ath's nephews, Muhammad ibn Ishaq and Uthman ibn Ishaq, supported the rebellion, but most remained quiescent and content with their role as local dignitaries. A few held posts in Kufa under the early Abbasids. Perhaps the most famous of the family's later members is the philosopher al-Kindi. Another uprising, that of Zayd ibn Ali, broke out in 740, again promising to right injustices (restoration of the \"ʿaṭāʾ\", distribution of the revenue from the Sawad, an end to distant campaigns) and to restore rule according to the Quran and the Sunna. Once more, however, the Kufans deserted it at the critical moment, and it was defeated by the Umayyads. Discontent with the Umayyad government continued to simmer, and during the Abbasid Revolution, Iraq rose up in support of the rebellion. Kufa overthrew Umayyad rule and welcomed the Abbasid army in October 749, followed immediately by the proclamation of as-Saffah as the first Abbasid caliph there.\n\n"}
{"id": "3259162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3259162", "title": "Al-Manar (magazine)", "text": "Al-Manar (magazine)\n\nal-Manār (; ‘The Lighthouse’), was an Islamic magazine, written in Arabic, and was founded and published by Rashid Rida from 1898 until his death in 1935. His goal in establishing the magazine was to articulate and disseminate reformist ideas and preserve the unity of the Muslim nation. The magazine was based in Cairo, Egypt. It was started as a weekly, but later its frequency was switched to monthly.\n\nRashid Rida was the sole editor-in-chief of the magazine. Its content was heavily about the Quranic interpretations. However, the magazine also featured articles on politics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25314135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25314135", "title": "Alberta Fashion Week", "text": "Alberta Fashion Week\n\nAlberta Fashion Week is a fashion event in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. It was started in February, 2009 by David R. Politi in Calgary, Alberta. It is a bi-yearly Fashion Week featuring local and national, Canadian designers. Its first shows were held between October 4–10, 2009, at the Banke of Nova Scotia, on Stephen Avenue in Calgary. Most of the designers involved were women, showing a mix of ready-to-wear and haute couture. To stay competitive with other non-fashion events, and encouraging for young fashion enthusiasts, tickets prices were kept low – under $22 for standing-room.\n\nThe next shows take place May 16–21, 2011.\n"}
{"id": "262772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262772", "title": "Autoerotic fatality", "text": "Autoerotic fatality\n\nAutoerotic fatalities are accidental deaths that occur during sexual self-stimulation when an apparatus, device or prop that is being employed to enhance pleasure causes the death. Researchers only apply the term to unintentional deaths resulting from solitary sexual activity, not suicide or acts with a partner. The incidence of autoerotic fatalities in Western countries is around 0.5 per million inhabitants each year.\n\nAutoerotic asphyxia is the leading cause. 70 to 80% of autoerotic deaths are caused by hanging, while 10 to 30% are attributed to plastic bags or chemical use. Both of these lead to autoerotic asphyxia. 5 to 10% are related to electrocution, foreign body insertion, overdressing/body wrapping, or another atypical method. Specific causes include the use of chemicals such as amyl nitrite, GHB, or nitrous oxide, and props and tools such as knives, oversized dildos, ligatures or bags for asphyxiation, duct tape, electrical apparatus for shocks, water for self-immersion, fire-making equipment for self-immolation, or sharp, unhygienic or large fetishized objects. Male victims are much more likely to use a variety of devices during autoerotic behaviour than female victims.\n\nThe subject has been treated in two books, \"Autoerotic Fatalities\" by Hazelwood et al. (1983) and \"Autoerotic Asphyxiation: Forensic, Medical, and Social Aspects\" by Sheleg et al. (2006).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1184312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1184312", "title": "Battle of Cresson", "text": "Battle of Cresson\n\nThe Battle of Cresson was a small battle, fought on 1 May 1187 at the springs of Cresson, or 'Ain Gozeh, near Nazareth. It was a prelude to the decisive defeat of the Kingdom of Jerusalem at the Battle of Hattin two months later.\n\nThe political situation in Jerusalem was tense because of factional rivalries between two branches of the royal house. Raymond III of Tripoli, who had previously been regent for the kingdom, refused to accept Guy of Lusignan as king, following the death of the child king, Baldwin V (Guy's stepson) the previous year. Gerard of Ridefort, master of the Knights Templar; Roger de Moulins, master of the Knights Hospitaller; Balian of Ibelin, Joscius, Archbishop of Tyre; and Reginald Grenier, lord of Sidon, were sent to Tiberias to negotiate with Raymond and try to bring him back into the Christian fold.\n\nMeanwhile, Saladin had sent a small force towards Tiberias led by Muzaffar ad-Din Gökböri, seeking revenge for an attack on a Muslim caravan by Raynald of Châtillon. Raymond III hoped Saladin would ally with him against Guy, and allowed this force to pass through Tiberias on 30 April, although he warned the Christians in Nazareth about the army's presence. Hearing this, Gerard quickly assembled a small army, consisting of the Templar garrisons from Qaqun and al-Fulah and the royal knights stationed at Nazareth, only about 130 knights in total; Balian had stopped along the way at his fief of Nablus and Reginald was also elsewhere. A second probably larger Ayyubid force, led by Saladin's son Al Afdal, was at Al Qahwani and did not participate in the battle.\n\nGerard reached Cresson on 1 May. As the \"Itinerarium Peregrinorum et Gesta Regis Ricardi\", a chronicle of the Third Crusade, records it:\n\n\"So Saladin assembled armed forces and marched violently on Palestine. He sent the emir of Edessa, Manafaradin (al-Muzaffar- Gökböri), on ahead with 7,000 Turks to ravage the Holy Land. Now, when this Manafaradin advanced into the Tiberias region, he happened to encounter the master of the Temple, Gerard de Ridefort, and the master of the Hospital, Roger des Moulins. In the unexpected battle which followed, he put the former to flight and killed the latter.\"\n\nThe Muslims feigned a retreat, a common tactic which should not have fooled Gerard; nevertheless, he ordered a charge, against Roger's advice, and the knights were separated from the foot-soldiers. The Muslims easily repulsed a direct Christian attack, killing both the exhausted knights, and, later, the foot-soldiers. Gerard was wounded, but survived; however, almost all the others were killed. According to the \"Itinerarium\", however, Gerard did not rashly engage the enemy, but was actually caught unaware and was the victim of an attack himself. The \"Itinerarium\" also records the exploits of a certain Templar named Jakelin de Mailly, who, after all his companions had been killed, fought singlehandedly against the throng of Muslims until he too fell.\n\nBalian was still a day behind, and had also stopped at Sebastea to celebrate a feast day. After reaching the castle of La Fève, where the Templars and Hospitallers had camped, he found that the place was deserted. He sent his squire Ernoul ahead to learn what had happened, and news of the disastrous battle soon arrived from the few survivors. Raymond heard about the battle as well and met the embassy at Tiberias, and agreed to accompany them back to Jerusalem.\n\nRaymond was finally willing to acknowledge Guy as king, but the damage to the kingdom was severe, and both Gerard and Raynald considered Raymond a traitor. However Guy, knowing that Saladin's army was already forming for a renewed assault on the kingdom, could not afford to let this internecine quarrel continue and welcomed Raymond with open arms.\n\nSaladin gathered a much larger army of 20,000 men, invaded the kingdom in June, and defeated Guy at Hattin on July 4; by October he captured Jerusalem itself.\n\nThe battle is mentioned in a number of contemporary chronicles. These accounts differ considerably, and have never been fully reconciled by historians. Instead historical accounts tend to be dominated by the early interpretations of the Latin \"De expugnatione Terrae Sanctae libellus\". The aforementioned Latin \"Itinerarium\" was probably compiled in the late 1190s or early 13th century, incorporating material from a member of Richard I's army in the Third Crusade, and some other sources.\n\nThe \"Old French Continuation of William of Tyre\" (1230s in its present form) includes an account of the immediate aftermath which is attributed to Balian's squire Ernoul: Ernoul himself was travelling with his lord and was not present for the actual fighting. Gerard of Ridefort's own report of the battle was the source for a short narrative written by Pope Urban III to Baldwin of Exeter, archbishop of Canterbury. The Arabic chronicle of Baha ad-Din ibn Shaddad briefly mentions Saladin's expedition but does not refer specifically to Cresson; according to him the advance guard remained in the Hawran while Saladin was in Damascus.\n\nThere is no real secondary literature on this battle, which was a minor prelude to Hattin. However, the classic study on crusader warfare of this period is Smail. A useful additional read is Marshall, which covers the armies of the region shortly after the battle of Hattin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43639491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43639491", "title": "Brighton Half Marathon", "text": "Brighton Half Marathon\n\nThe Brighton Half Marathon is an annual half marathon road running race. The race is run primarily along Brighton seafront and passes through famous landmarks such as the Royal Pavilion, Brighton Pier, West Pier and Brighton Marina.\n\nIn 2014 the Brighton Half Marathon was named as one the eight events in the Vitality Run Series alongside the Liverpool Half Marathon, Reading Half Marathon, Oxford Half Marathon, Bath Half Marathon, North London Half Marathon, Hackney Half Marathon and British 10k London Run.\n\nOn 31 March 2017 it was announced that the course used for the 2015–2017 races was short of the full distance and that the times of the runners in the three races are likely to be expunged from official records.\n\nKey:\n"}
{"id": "1697661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1697661", "title": "Carnival Memphis", "text": "Carnival Memphis\n\nCarnival Memphis (formerly known as the Memphis Cotton Carnival), is a series of parties and festivities staged annually since 1931 in Memphis, Tennessee by the centralized Carnival Memphis Association and its member krewes (similar to that of Mardi Gras) during the month of June. Carnival salutes various aspects of Memphis and its industries, and is reigned over by the current year's secretly selected King, Queen, and Royal Court of Carnival.\n\nThe Royal Court is made up of young women from Memphis (princesses), mostly around the age of nineteen, typically having completed their first-year of study in college, and their escorts. Members of the Court not from the city of Memphis are known as \"Ladies of the Realm.\" Members of the Court sometimes carry special titles such as the \"King's Princess,\" in which she is selected by the King himself to bear this title, as is a \"Queen's Princess,\" a \"President's Princess\", and princesses representing various social clubs in Memphis, such as the \"Princess of the Memphis Country Club\" or the various krewes within Carnival. The male escort of the princess representing the various social clubs normally bears the masculine form of the title as well, making one in this instance be the \"Prince of the University Club.\" The Queen is a young woman who is at least a few years older than the court, typically being the age one would be having finished two to three years in college. The King is traditionally much older than the court, and is a prominent leader from the current year's saluted industry. \"Carnival\" is usually held during the first week of June, commencing the Friday after Memorial Day, beginning with the Crown & Sceptre Ball and ending with the Grand Carnival Ball. During this time the Grand Krewes of Carnival also hold their own events and parties celebrating their King, Queen and Court, along with the entire revelers of Carnival Memphis.\n\nCarnival Memphis is put on by the Carnival Memphis Association, which is governed by a Board of Directors, (vacancies are filled by the other members of the Board), a President (elected annually by the Board members), and an Executive Director, who manages the daily aspects of the association.\n\nThe Carnival Memphis Association organizes, plans, budgets, and promotes the King, Queen, and Royal Court, as well as many of the events staged during Carnival week. However, the Grand Krewes (once known as secret societies) also stage their own festivities throughout the year, elect their own royalty, manage their own budget, and have their own membership requirements. Most of these organizations bear Egyptian names in accordance to tradition originally set out by the Mystic Memphi, and in conjunction with Memphis being the sister city of ancient Memphis, Egypt. The twelve Grand Krewes that Carnival Memphis recognizes are the Mystic Society of the Memphi, Osiris, Sphinx, RaMet, Ennead, Phoenix, Aani, Ptolemy, Kemet Jubilee, Ptah, Luxor, Queen Bees. The Secret Order of the Boll Weevils is a support group of Carnival that is not a Grand Krewe. The Grand Krewes of Memphi, Osiris, RaMet and Sphinx are \"old-line\" Grand Krewes and were all started in the 1930s as the original secret societies of the Memphis Cotton Carnival. However, Memphi considers its history traceable to the 1870s as the original promoters of the Memphis Mardi Gras, although it became defunct during the time that span between the last Mardi Gras and its restoration as a Cotton Carnival secret society. Membership requirements and financial commitments are normally more complex when one wishes to join one of the older krewes, as compared to the newer krewes, that may have little or no membership process. Memphi and Osiris are all-male organizations, with some exceptions. Memphi allows their past queens to become members after their reign, following their belief that \"once a Queen, always a Queen!.\"\n\nEach Grand Krewe is independently governed by a Board of Directors, and elects its own executive from within its membership. The title of the executives differ from krewe to krewe, mostly known as \"General Chairman,\" or \"Chairman\". The King and Queen of Carnival Memphis are kept secret until an announcement usually in early February. A few of the old-line Grand Krewes keep their royalty a secret throughout most, if not all of Carnival. The Sublime Ouro (the King) of Memphi is not announced until the Wednesday night of Carnival Week to his own krewe members. The King of Osiris is announced on the last day of Carnival Week.\n\nIn 1872, Memphis as much of the South, was suffering from the devastation of the Civil War and Reconstruction. The city fathers thought that Memphis needed some show of civic pride that would bring the residents together for a common good and demonstrate to the outside world that the city was alive and well. They decided on a Mardi Gras celebration to help re-invigorate the spirits of the population. The city of Memphis celebrated Mardi Gras, and a Carnival season based on the traditional Christian liturgical calendar just before the season of Lent, similar to what is still practiced in cities such as New Orleans, Louisiana, Mobile, Alabama, Galveston, Texas, Venice, Italy and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This was largely staged by secret societies, or a \"krewe\" system, but mostly through the efforts of the Mystic Society of the Memphi. The societies held massive parades, elaborate balls and parties, to celebrate during this festive season. However, Memphis experienced the devastation of a yellow fever epidemic which along with cholera wiped out much of the city's population. Mardi Gras celebrations in Memphis slowly ceased to exist, and by the late 1890s, the Mystic Memphi and other societies, as well as the Mardi Gras festivals as a whole were no longer an active institution in the city.\n\nDuring the early twentieth century, great interest developed in creating a citywide event like Carnival, and re-establishing the Mystic Memphi. As more and more influential Memphians became actively interested, Memphi and the Memphis Cotton Carnival Association were established in the early 1930s. The efforts were conducted to bring a sense of excitement and life back to the city of Memphis and its people. However, rather than following the Lenten calendar and being held strictly to celebrate Mardi Gras, designers decided that this festival would promote something else, Memphis' primary asset at the time-cotton. During this time, Memphis and the Mid-South region, like the rest of the United States, were in the throes of the Great Depression. Many were out of work and the region's cotton was selling for pennies a pound. The prosperity of the Mid-South was dependent on cotton and measures had to be taken to increase the use of this precious commodity. At the same time, the Memphis Chamber of Commerce was having trouble raising money to compete with other cities in the South, such as Atlanta and New Orleans. A. Arthur Halle and a group of businessmen called on Herbert Jennings, a downtown theatre manager for a donation. Jennings agreed to contribute and shared an idea that he believed would help promote business and draw attention to cotton. To help publicize an upcoming movie, Jennings offered local retailers the opportunity to display cotton goods in his theatre and planned to encourage them to use their own store windows to promote cotton clothing. Halle was intrigued by the idea and envisioned a larger citywide promotion and called upon Everett R. Cook, who was President of the Memphis Cotton Exchange at this time. Cook was invited to come to the theatre to hear the ideas. Those ideas quickly grew into a plan for a grand celebration with a King, Queen and Royal Court that would involve people from all over the Mid-South. The idea was to promote the use and wearing of cotton products which would lead to increased demand and stimulate sales. It worked, as people began to demand more cotton products from socks to ball gowns.\n\nCook expressed his vision this way: \"Carnival is to promote business for everybody and should not be used by any one group. It is for all of the stores and all of the people, for all kinds of professions and businesses, for the city as a whole regardless of the size of the business, the social standing, wealth, prestige, family background or anything else that would tend to make anyone feel that he or she would not be invited to participate in Carnival.\"\n\nThe fanfare and excitement that centered around the Cotton Carnival climaxed throughout the mid-to-late twentieth century. During this time, the event stretched several weeks during the months of May and June, and had incorporated much more than it had originally set out to do. The Memphis Cotton Carnival Association had become a very centralized governing body, which along with the participating krewes, was becoming a festival that could not be rivaled anywhere in the South except New Orleans' Mardi Gras (in which it brought in as many numbers). While the series of street parades in downtown Memphis continued to be held, in addition to the numerous parties at many of the city's most elite social clubs continued, the event started to form a new face of entertainment that dubbed it the \"South's Greatest Party\" for all to enjoy. The Carnival and its krewes held on to the traditional aspects of Carnival, but entertained onlookers with such musicians as Elvis Presley, Waylon Jennings, and Jerry Lee Lewis, welcoming guests from all over the United States, and from all over the world. By this time it had truly become the city's most important and celebrated event, participated by Memphians and Mid-Southerners from all socioeconomic backgrounds. In addition to the Music Festival, its most intriguing and popular event was the \"Arrival of the Royal Barge\". This event was very much a \"sight to see\" in which the King, Queen, and Royal Court, along with the royal pages, guards, and other participants would all ride in on a beautifully decorated barge on the Mississippi River, docking in downtown Memphis for all onlookers to revel and awe over. With elaborately designed and well-lit backdrops, along with the night sky being lit up with an array of fireworks, this was truly a wonder for everyone present. The entire city, it seemed, gathered along the Mississippi riverbanks on a spring evening to attend the Royal Barge Landing, walk along the Carnival midway, and watch the Carnival parade. Many national publications and media covered the fanfare, and the Association even crowned a Maid of Cotton to tour the globe and promote cotton fashions.\n\nThe assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. left Memphis devastated in many different ways, one aspect being the state of its downtown. As urban sprawl began to be more and more common, with businesses and residents moving away from the city's inner core, the public events that were once staged by the Cotton Carnival became few and far between. Parades slowly became a thing of the past, as did the arrival of the Royal Barge. The city of Memphis municipal government acquired the \"float factory\" once used to manufacture the elaborately decorated floats, and mainstream Memphians and Mid-Southerners grew less and less interested in staging this event. Also, other festivals began to form that took the place of Carnival, such as the Memphis in May International Festival, and its highly anticipated Beale Street Music Festival.\n\nOver the years, however, Carnival's luster began to fade along with the declining role of cotton in the area. The national press gradually lost interest, and the Maid of Cotton Pageant was moved to Dallas, Texas, where it exists today. For various reasons, the 1980s saw the name of the Cotton Carnival be changed to the Great River Carnival, and because of even less approval changed again to Carnival Memphis. The organization sited this was done because the community had grown in such tremendous ways, and that the Memphis economy had become more diversified and no longer centered exclusively around cotton. The king was beginning to be chosen from leaders in other aspects of commerce other than the cotton industry, and was no longer referred to as \"King Cotton,\" but as simply King, or Rex Carnivali.\n\nFor years, the Cotton Carnival was, though not officially, for all intents and purposes for whites only. When a Beale Street dentist named Dr. R.Q. Venson took his nephew downtown to see a Carnival parade in 1934, complete with the marching bands and floats (which were for a few years in its existence pulled by black men), and asked him how he liked it. He didn't, his nephew replied, because \"all the negroes were horses.\" Venson enjoined other black Memphians to hold their own separate event. As a result, the Cotton Makers' Fiesta was organized in 1934. The name changed to Cotton Makers' Jubilee and, as a protest to establish dignity and respect for Negro men and women, the first celebration was held the third week of May 1936. The Jubilee enjoyed its most successful years from 1948 to 1958. There were only two occasions in the celebrations past when no activities took place. The first such time was during World War II and the second occasion in 1968 due to the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. The organization briefly merged with Carnival Memphis in 1982 when it became known as the krewe Kemet Jubilee.\n\nThe King was, and still is, an older man who had ties with the industry being saluted that year, while the Queen was, and still is, a young, unmarried woman from one of Memphis' \"better\" families. That's one tradition, at least, that hasn't changed over the years.\n\nThe elitist charge came about from all the supposedly secret activities of the Carnival royalty and especially the various Grand Krewes, whose membership — and parties, especially — were by invitation only. Year after year, many outsiders would read The Commercial Appeal (Memphis newspaper) stories of fancy-dress balls and dinners and dances held by mysterious-sounding, Egyptian-themed Krewes, and wonder, why they could not attend those parties or have their daughters debut in these certain circles; this sense of separation within the Memphis community led to charges of elitism.\n\nBy the later twentieth century Carnival Memphis had the general reputation of having dwindled down to nothing but a series of formal debutante parties at the various private social and country clubs, consisting largely of the city's elite gathering together to promote an event that \"was once, but no longer\", and it was truly living out its twilight years. Gone were the parades, the grand parties, the fireworks, the midway, and the hustle and bustle of an entire metropolitan area to promote itself and to gather together to take part in such a great event.\n\nHowever, as Carnival officials grew more and more aware about certain negative issues surrounding the event and its severely declining reputation, they began actually implementing steps over the years to bring outsiders into their realm. More and more Carnival events are now open to the public. African-American Memphians are beginning to take part, and Carnival had one black Krewe, Cotton Makers' (currently Kemet) Jubilee, from 1982-2007. Also, Carnival has begun selecting local charities and organizing special events just for Carnival krewes, with each charity receiving a monetary donation.\n\nSeventy-four years later, the mission of Carnival remains much the same as it was in 1931-to recognize and promote an industry that has a major economic impact on the Mid-South community, and to promote the City of Memphis as a great place to live and work, and to cause an annual celebration in honor of that industry and the people of the Mid-South. The general motto of Carnival Memphis is \"Convivium Cum Propositione,\" Latin for \"The Party with a Purpose!\". According to Jim Cole, who lived in Memphis from the mid-1950s to the early 1960s and attended numerous Cotton Carnivals, \"Elvis Presley was a major headline entertainer during the mid 1950's\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27179600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27179600", "title": "Chemical weapon", "text": "Chemical weapon\n\nA chemical weapon (CW) is a specialized munition that uses chemicals formulated to inflict death or harm on humans. According to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), \"the term chemical weapon may also be applied to any toxic chemical or its precursor that can cause death, injury, temporary incapacitation or sensory irritation through its chemical action. Munitions or other delivery devices designed to deliver chemical weapons, whether filled or unfilled, are also considered weapons themselves.\"\n\nChemical weapons are classified as weapons of mass destruction (WMDs), though they are distinct from nuclear weapons, biological weapons, and radiological weapons. All may be used in warfare and are known by the military acronym NBC (for nuclear, biological, and chemical warfare). Weapons of mass destruction are distinct from conventional weapons, which are primarily effective due to their explosive, kinetic, or incendiary potential. Chemical weapons can be widely dispersed in gas, liquid and solid forms, and may easily afflict others than the intended targets. Nerve gas, tear gas and pepper spray are three modern examples of chemical weapons.\n\nLethal unitary chemical agents and munitions are extremely volatile and they constitute a class of hazardous chemical weapons that have been stockpiled by many nations. Unitary agents are effective on their own and do not require mixing with other agents. The most dangerous of these are nerve agents (GA, GB, GD, and VX) and vesicant (blister) agents, which include formulations of sulfur mustard such as H, HT, and HD. They all are liquids at normal room temperature, but become gaseous when released. Widely used during the First World War, the effects of so-called mustard gas, phosgene gas and others caused lung searing, blindness, death and maiming. \n\nThe Nazi Germans during WW-II committed genocide mainly against Jews but included other targeted populations in the Holocaust, a commercial hydrogen cyanide blood agent trade named Zyklon B discharged in large gas chambers was the preferred method to efficiently murder their victims in a continuing industrial fashion, this resulted in the largest death toll to chemical weapons in history. \n\n, CS gas and pepper spray remain in common use for policing and riot control; while CS is considered a non-lethal weapon, pepper spray is known for its lethal potential. Under the Chemical Weapons Convention (1993), there is a legally binding, worldwide ban on the production, stockpiling, and use of chemical weapons and their precursors. Notwithstanding, large stockpiles of chemical weapons continue to exist, usually justified as a precaution against putative use by an aggressor.\n\nInternational law has prohibited the use of chemical weapons since 1899, under the Hague Convention: Article 23 of the Regulations Respecting the Laws and Customs of War on Land adopted by the First Hague Conference \"especially\" prohibited employing \"poison and poisoned arms\". A separate declaration stated that in any war between signatory powers, the parties would abstain from using projectiles \"the object of which is the diffusion of asphyxiating or deleterious gases\".\n\nThe Washington Naval Treaty, signed February 6, 1922, also known as the Five-Power Treaty, aimed at banning CW but did not succeed because France rejected it. The subsequent failure to include CW has contributed to the resultant increase in stockpiles.\n\nThe Geneva Protocol, officially known as the \"Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or other Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods of Warfare\", is an International treaty prohibiting the use of chemical and biological weapons. It was signed at Geneva June 17, 1925, and entered into force on February 8, 1928. 133 nations are listed as state parties to the treaty. Ukraine is the newest signatory; acceding August 7, 2003.\n\nThis treaty states that chemical and biological weapons are \"justly condemned by the general opinion of the civilised world\". And while the treaty prohibits the use of chemical and biological weapons, it does not address the production, storage, or transfer of these weapons. Treaties that followed the Geneva Protocol did address those omissions and have been enacted.\n\nThe 1993 Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) is the most recent arms control agreement with the force of International law. Its full name is the \"Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction\". That agreement outlaws the production, stockpiling and use of chemical weapons. It is administered by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), which is an independent organization based in The Hague.\n\nThe OPCW administers the terms of the CWC to 192 signatories, which represents 98% of the global population. , 66,368 of 72,525 metric tonnes, (92% of CW stockpiles), have been verified as destroyed. The OPCW has conducted 6,327 inspections at 235 chemical weapon-related sites and 2,255 industrial sites. These inspections have affected the sovereign territory of 86 States Parties since April 1997. Worldwide, 4,732 industrial facilities are subject to inspection under provisions of the CWC.\n\nChemical warfare (\"CW\") involves using the toxic properties of chemical substances as weapons. This type of warfare is distinct from nuclear warfare and biological warfare, which together make up NBC, the military initialism for Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical (warfare or weapons). None of these fall under the term conventional weapons, which are primarily effective because of their destructive potential. Chemical warfare does not depend upon explosive force to achieve an objective. It depends upon the unique properties of the chemical agent weaponized.\n\nA lethal agent is designed to injure, incapacitate, or kill an opposing force, or deny unhindered use of a particular area of terrain. Defoliants are used to quickly kill vegetation and deny its use for cover and concealment. CW can also be used against agriculture and livestock to promote hunger and starvation. Chemical payloads can be delivered by remote controlled container release, aircraft, or rocket. Protection against chemical weapons includes proper equipment, training, and decontamination measures.\n\nOf 190 signatory nations to the CWC, state parties listed below have also declared stockpiles, agreed to monitored disposal, and verification, and in some cases, used CW in conflict. Both military targets and civilian populations have been affected; affected populations were not always damaged collaterally; instead, at times: themselves the target of the attack. , only North Korea and the United States are confirmed to have remaining stockpiles of CW.\n\nIndia declared its stock of chemical weapons in June 1997. India's declaration came after the entry into force of the CWC that created the OPCW. India declared a stockpile of 1044 tonnes of sulfur mustard in its possession. On January 14, 1993, India became an original signatory to the CWC. In 2005, among the six nations that declared stockpiles of chemical weapons, India was the only one to meet its deadline for chemical weapons destruction and for inspection of its facilities by the OPCW. By the end of 2006, India had destroyed more than 75 percent of its chemical weapons/material stockpile and was granted an extension for destroying the remaining CW until April 2009. It was anticipated that India would achieve 100 percent destruction within that time frame. On May 14, 2009, India informed the United Nations that it had completely destroyed its stockpile of chemical weapons.\n\nThe Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which oversees destruction measures, has announced \"The government of Iraq has deposited its instrument of accession to the Chemical Weapons Convention with the Secretary General of the United Nations and within 30 days, on 12 February 2009, will become the 186th State Party to the Convention\". Iraq has also declared stockpiles of CW, and because of their recent accession is the only State Party exempted from the destruction time-line. On September 7, 2011, Hoshyar Zebari entered the OPCW headquarters, becoming the first Iraqi Foreign Minister to officially visit since the country joined the CWC.\n\nIraq used mustard gas in an attack against Kurdish people on March 16, 1988, Halabja chemical attack.The attack killed between 3,200 and 5,000 people and injured 7,000 to 10,000 more, most of them civilians. On June 28, 1987 in Sardasht, on two separate attacks against four residential areas, victims were estimated as 10 civilians dead and 650 civilians injured. Iraq massively used chemical weapons during Iran–Iraq war, and so far, Kurdish people are the biggest victims of chemical weapons.\n\nJapan stored chemical weapons on the territory of mainland China between 1937 and 1945. The weapons mostly contained a mustard gas-lewisite mixture. They are classified as \"abandoned chemical weapons\" under the CWC; their destruction under a joint Japan-China program started in September 2010, in Nanjing using mobile destruction facilities.\n\nLibya used chemical weapons, under Muammar Gaddafi's regime, in a war with Chad. In 2003, Gaddafi agreed to accede to the CWC in exchange for \"rapprochement\" with western nations. At the time of the Libyan uprising against Gaddafi, Libya still controlled approximately 11.25 tons of poisonous mustard gas. Because of destabilization, concerns increased regarding possibilities and likelihood that control of these agents could be lost. With terrorism at the core of concern, international bodies cooperated to ensure Libya is held to its obligations under the treaty. Libya's post-Gaddafi National Transitional Council is cooperating with the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons regarding the destruction of all legacy chemical weapons in the country. After assessing the chemical stockpiles, the Libyan government will receive a deadline from the OPCW to destroy the CW.\n\nRussia entered the CWC with the largest declared stockpile of chemical weapons. By 2010 the country had destroyed 18,241 tonnes at destruction facilities located in Gorny (Saratov Oblast) and Kambarka (Udmurt Republic), where operations have finished, and Shchuchye (Kurgan Oblast), Maradykovsky (Kirov Oblast), Leonidovka (Penza Oblast) while installations are under construction in Pochep (Bryansk Oblast) and Kizner (Udmurt Republic). By 2016, Russia destroyed around 94% of its chemical weapons, planning to completely destroy its remaining stockpile by the end of 2018. On September 27, 2017 Russia announced the destruction of the last batch of chemical weapons, completing the total destruction of its chemical arsenal, ahead of schedule.\n\nOn March 4, 2018, Russia was alleged to have conducted a chemical attack in Salisbury, UK that left 5 injured including the alleged target of the attack, Sergei Skripal.\n\nPrior to September 2013, Syria was one of the 7 states that were not party to the Chemical Weapons Convention. It is, however, party to the 1925 Geneva Protocol and therefore, prohibited from using chemical weapons in war yet unhindered from the production, storage or transfer of CW.\n\nWhen questioned about the topic, Syrian officials stated that they feel it is an appropriate deterrent against Israel's undeclared nuclear weapons program which they believe exists. On July 23, 2012, the Syrian government acknowledged, for the first time, that it had chemical weapons.\n\nIndependent assessments indicate that Syria could have produced up to a few hundred tons of chemical agent per year. Syria reportedly manufactures the unitary agents: Sarin, Tabun, VX, and mustard gas.\n\nSyrian chemical weapons production facilities have been identified by Western nonproliferation experts at the following 5 sites, plus a suspected weapons base:\n\n\nIn July 2007, a Syrian arms depot exploded, killing at least 15 Syrians. Jane's Defence Weekly, a UK magazine reporting on military and corporate affairs, believed that the explosion happened when Iranian and Syrian military personnel attempted to fit a Scud missile with a mustard gas warhead. Syria stated that the blast was accidental and not chemical related.\n\nOn July 13, 2012, the Syrian government moved its stockpile to an undisclosed location.\n\nIn September 2012, information emerged that the Syrian military had begun testing chemical weapons, and was reinforcing and resupplying a base housing these weapons located east of Aleppo in August.\n\nOn March 19, 2013, news emerged from Syria indicating the first use of chemical weapons since the beginning of the Syrian uprising.\n\nOn August 21, 2013, testimony and photographic evidence emerged from Syria indicating a large-scale chemical weapons attack on Ghouta, a populated urban center.\n\nAn agreement was reached September 14, 2013, called the Framework For Elimination of Syrian Chemical Weapons, leading to the elimination of Syria's chemical weapon stockpiles by mid-2014.\n\nOn October 14, 2013, Syria officially acceded to the Chemical Weapons Convention but there were multiple cases of chemical weapon use in Syria afterwards.\n\nThe United States has destroyed about 90% of the chemical weapons stockpile it declared in 1997; as of 2012 complete destruction was not expected until 2023.\n\nThe U.S. policy on the use of chemical weapons is to reserve the right to retaliate. First use, or preemptive use, is a violation of stated policy. Only the president of the United States can authorize the first retaliatory use. Official policy now reflects the likelihood of chemical weapons being used as a terrorist weapon.\n\nAlthough Israel has signed the CWC, it has not ratified the treaty and therefore is not officially bound by its tenets. The country is believed to have a significant stockpile of chemical weapons, likely the most abundant in the Middle-East, according to the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service. A 1983 CIA report stated that Israel, after \"finding itself surrounded by front-line Arab states with budding CW capabilities, became increasingly conscious of its vulnerability to chemical attack ... undertook a program of chemical warfare preparations in both offensive and protective areas ... In late 1982, a probable CW nerve agent production facility and a storage facility were identified at the Dimona Sensitive Storage Area in the Negev Desert. Other CW agent production is believed to exist within a well-developed Israeli chemical industry.\"\n\nIn 1992, El Al Flight 1862 crashed on its way to Tel Aviv and was found to be carrying 190 liters of dimethyl methylphosphonate, a CWC schedule 2 chemical used in the synthesis of sarin nerve gas. Israel insisted at the time that the materials were non-toxic. This shipment was coming from a US chemical plant to the IIBR under a US Department of Commerce license.\n\nIn 1993, the U.S. Congress Office of Technology Assessment WMD proliferation assessment recorded Israel as a country generally reported as having undeclared offensive chemical warfare capabilities. However, it is unclear whether Israel still keeps its alleged stockpile of chemical weapons.\n\nNorth Korea is not a signatory of the CWC and has never officially acknowledged the existence of its CW program. Nevertheless, the country is believed to possess a substantial arsenal of chemical weapons. It reportedly acquired the technology necessary to produce tabun and mustard gas as early as the 1950s. In 2009, the International Crisis Group reported that the consensus expert view was that North Korea had a stockpile of about 2,500 to 5,000 tonnes of chemical weapons, including mustard gas, sarin (GB) and other nerve agents including VX.\n\nThere are three basic configurations in which these agents are stored. The first are self-contained munitions like projectiles, cartridges, mines, and rockets; these can contain propellant and/or explosive components. The next form are aircraft-delivered munitions. This form never has an explosive component. Together they comprise the two forms that have been weaponized and are ready for their intended use. The U.S. stockpile consisted of 39% of these weapon ready munitions. The final of the three forms are raw agent housed in one-ton containers. The remaining 61% of the stockpile was in this form. Whereas these chemicals exist in liquid form at normal room temperature, the sulfur mustards H, and HD freeze in temperatures below . Mixing lewisite with distilled mustard lowers the freezing point to .\n\nHigher temperatures are a bigger concern because the possibility of an explosion increases as the temperatures rise. A fire at one of these facilities would endanger the surrounding community as well as the personnel at the installations. Perhaps more so for the community having much less access to protective equipment and specialized training. The Oak Ridge National Laboratory conducted a study to assess capabilities and costs for protecting civilian populations during related emergencies, and the effectiveness of expedient, in-place shelters.\n\nThe stockpiles, which have been maintained for more than 50 years, are now considered obsolete. Public Law 99-145, contains section 1412, which directs the Department of Defense (DOD) to dispose of the stockpiles. This directive fell upon the DOD with joint cooperation from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The Congressional directive has resulted in the present Chemical Stockpile Disposal Program.\n\nHistorically, chemical munitions have been disposed of by land burial, open burning, and ocean dumping (referred to as Operation CHASE). However, in 1969, the National Research Council (NRC) recommended that ocean dumping be discontinued. The Army then began a study of disposal technologies, including the assessment of incineration as well as chemical neutralization methods. In 1982, that study culminated in the selection of incineration technology, which is now incorporated into what is known as the \"baseline\" system. Construction of the Johnston Atoll Chemical Agent Disposal System (JACADS) began in 1985.\n\nThis was to be a full-scale prototype facility using the baseline system. The prototype was a success but there were still many concerns about CONUS operations. To address growing public concern over incineration, Congress, in 1992, directed the Army to evaluate alternative disposal approaches that might be \"significantly safer\", more cost effective, and which could be completed within the established time frame. The Army was directed to report to Congress on potential alternative technologies by the end of 1993, and to include in that report: \"any recommendations that the National Academy of Sciences makes ...\" In June 2007, the disposal program achieved the milestone of reaching 45% destruction of the chemical weapon stockpile. The Chemical Materials Agency (CMA) releases regular updates to the public regarding the status of the disposal program. By October 2010, the program had reached 80% destruction status.\n\nChemical weapons are said to \"make deliberate use of the toxic properties of chemical substances to inflict death\". At the start of World War II it was widely reported in newspapers that \"entire regions of Europe\" would be turned into \"lifeless wastelands\". However, chemical weapons were not used to the extent reported by a scaremongering press.\n\nAn unintended chemical weapon release occurred at the port of Bari. A German attack on the evening of December 2, 1943, damaged U.S. vessels in the harbour and the resultant release from their hulls of mustard gas inflicted a total of 628 casualties.\n\nThe U.S. Government was highly criticized for exposing American service members to chemical agents while testing the effects of exposure. These tests were often performed without the consent or prior knowledge of the soldiers affected. Australian service personnel were also exposed as a result of the \"Brook Island trials\" carried out by the British Government to determine the likely consequences of chemical warfare in tropical conditions; little was known of such possibilities at that time.\n\nSome chemical agents are designed to produce mind-altering changes; rendering the victim unable to perform their assigned mission. These are classified as incapacitating agents, and lethality is not a factor of their effectiveness.\n\nDuring Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation New Dawn, service members who demolished or handled older explosive ordnance may have been exposed to blister agents (mustard agent) or nerve agents (sarin). According to \"The New York Times\", \"In all, American troops secretly reported finding roughly 5,000 chemical warheads, shells or aviation bombs, according to interviews with dozens of participants, Iraqi and American officials, and heavily redacted intelligence documents obtained under the Freedom of Information Act.\" Among these, over 2,400 nerve-agent rockets were found in summer 2006 at Camp Taji, a former Republican Guard compound. \"These weapons were not part of an active arsenal\"; \"they were remnants from an Iraqi program in the 1980s during the Iran-Iraq war\".\n\nThe Department of Defense (DOD) wants to identify those who experienced symptoms following exposure to chemical warfare agent. The likelihood of long-term effects from a single exposure is related to the severity of the exposure. The severity of exposure is estimated from the onset of signs and symptoms coupled with how long it took for them to develop. DOD is interested in their symptoms and their current status. DOD wants to be sure that the exposure is documented in their medical record, that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is informed, and that they understand their future health risks. DOD can provide them with information regarding their exposure to share with their health care provider, and recommend follow-up if needed.\nWhile DOD has identified some individuals, they are conducting medical record screenings on units, and reviewing Post Deployment Health Assessment and Reassessment forms to identify other exposed individuals. Because these methods have limitations, individuals are encouraged to self-identify by using the DOD Hotline: 800-497-6261.\n\nBinary munitions contain two, unmixed and isolated chemicals that do not react to produce lethal effects until mixed. This usually happens just prior to battlefield use. In contrast, unitary weapons are lethal chemical munitions that produce a toxic result in their existing state. The majority of the chemical weapon stockpile is unitary and most of it is stored in one-ton bulk containers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30519954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30519954", "title": "Cherrycool Promotions", "text": "Cherrycool Promotions\n\nCherrycool Promotions is an events management company set up in 2006 to \"bring unique music events to Ireland\". Currently they organise and run several of their own events as well as working with clients to create theirs.\n\nCastlepalooza is one such Cherrycool event. The festival is one of the \"Little Two\" music festivals in Ireland, the other being Indiependence which is usually held on the same weekend in Mitchelstown, County Cork.\n\nThe Irish Festival Awards were set up in 2007 to honour the organisers and people behind the scenes that make every Irish summer such an eclectic celebration of music, art and performance.\n\nBest Large Festival: Electric Picnic\n\nBest Medium Festival: Galway Arts Festival\n\nBest Small Festival: Sponsored by Bavaria: Glasgowbury\n\nGreenest Festival: Sponsored by Fáilte Ireland: Electric Picnic\n\nBest One-Day Festival: Arthur's Day\n\nBest New Festival: Sponsored by Kopparberg: Arthur's Day\n\nBest Dance Festival: Sponsored by EQ Audio & Events: Life\n\nBest Traditional Festival: Sponsored by Fáilte Ireland:\nTemple Bar TradFest\n\nBest Value: Sponsored by Bavaria: Festival of World Cultures\n\nBest Street Spirit: Sponsored by Fáilte Ireland: Spraoi\n\nBest Lineup: Sponsored by Kopparberg: Glasgowbury\n\nFamily Festival Award: Glasgowbury\n\nSocial Responsibility Award: Hard Working Class Heroes\n\nBest Service: Sponsored by General Auto Repair: Glasgowbury\n\nBest Toilets: None, we want real toilets!\n\nBest Headline Act: Sponsored by entertainment.ie:\nKings of Leon\n\nBest Rock Act: Sponsored by Phantom 105.2: Kasabian\n\nBest Dance Act: Sponsored by The Star: 2 Many Dj's\n\nBest Alternative Act: Sponsored by The Star:\nFlorence and the Machine\n\nBest Irish Act: Sponsored by MUZU.tv: Bell X1\n\n"}
{"id": "30252554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30252554", "title": "December 2010 Israeli rabbi letter controversy", "text": "December 2010 Israeli rabbi letter controversy\n\nThe December 2010 Israeli rabbi letter controversy was a scandal that erupted surrounding the appearance of two open letters, signed by a number of Israeli rabbis, that were discriminatory towards non-Jews in Israel. Although the letters sparked considerable outrage, evoking condemnation from prominent Israeli and American Jews and others, a poll showed that a sizeable portion of Israeli society supported the letters' messages.\n\nThe rabbis' letter was a psak din (religious ruling) signed by an estimated 50 rabbis, that urged Israeli landowners not to rent apartments to Arabs, or any other non-Jews. The letter was initiated by the chief rabbi of Safed, Shmuel Eliyahu. On January 2, 2011, Eliyahu was summoned to an Israeli police interrogation on suspicion of incitement to racism, which is a crime in Israel, but he refused to answer the summons.\n\nMany of the rabbis who signed the letter were municipal rabbis, state employees in charge of religious services, who receive salaries paid for by the taxpayer. Among the signers were rabbis from Rishon LeZion, Ramat HaSharon, Herzliya, Kfar Saba and Holon (suburbs of Tel Aviv); from Jerusalem; and from other towns and settlements.\n\nAccording to a poll conducted by the Harry S. Truman Institute for the Advancement of Peace at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, a narrow plurality of Jewish Israelis were opposed to the rabbis' call not to rent to Arabs: 48 percent opposed the statement, and 44 percent supported it.\n\nThe second letter was released on December 28, 2010, by the Lehava organization. It was signed by at least 27 rebbetzins (rabbis' wives). It urged young Jewish women to not date Arabs, and to not work at locations where non-Jews might be present.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2811532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2811532", "title": "Employment discrimination", "text": "Employment discrimination\n\nEmployment discrimination is a form of discrimination based on race, gender, religion, national origin, physical or mental disability, age, sexual orientation, and gender identity by employers. Earnings differentials or occupational differentiation—where differences in pay come from differences in qualifications or responsibilities—should not be confused with employment discrimination. Discrimination can be intended and involve disparate treatment of a group or be unintended, yet create disparate impact for a group.\nIn neoclassical economics theory, labor market discrimination is defined as the different treatment of two equally qualified individuals on account of their gender, race, age, disability, religion, etc. Discrimination is harmful since it affects the economic outcomes of equally productive workers directly and indirectly through feedback effects. Darity and Mason [1998] summarize that the standard approach used in identifying employment discrimination is to isolate group productivity differences (education, work experience). Differences in outcomes (such as earnings, job placement) that cannot be attributed to worker qualifications are attributed to discriminatory treatment.\n\nIn the non-neoclassical view, discrimination is the main source of inequality in the labor market and is seen in the persistent gender and racial earnings disparity in the U.S. Non-neoclassical economists define discrimination more broadly than neoclassical economists. For example, the feminist economist Deborah Figart [1997] defines labor market discrimination as “a multi-dimensional interaction of economic, social, political, and cultural forces in both the workplace and the family, resulting in different outcomes involving pay, employment, and status”. That is, discrimination is not only about measurable outcomes but also about unquantifiable consequences. It is important to note that the process is as important as the outcomes. Furthermore, gender norms are embedded in labor markets and shape employer preferences as well worker preferences; therefore, it is not easy to separate discrimination from productivity-related inequality.\n\nAlthough labor market inequalities have declined after the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, the movement towards equality has slowed down after the mid-1970s, especially more in gender terms than racial terms. The key issue in the debate on employment discrimination is the persistence of discrimination, namely, why discrimination persists in a capitalist economy.\n\nGender earnings gap or the concentration of men and women workers in different occupations or industries in and of itself is not evidence of discrimination. Therefore, empirical studies seek to identify the extent to which earnings differentials are due to worker qualification differences. Many studies find that qualification differences do not explain more than a portion of the earnings differences. The portion of the earnings gap that cannot be explained by qualifications is then attributed to discrimination. One prominent formal procedure for identifying the explained and unexplained portions of the gender wage differentials or wage gap is the Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition procedure.\n\nAnother type of statistical evidence of discrimination is gathered by focusing on homogeneous groups. This approach has the advantage of studying economic outcomes of groups with very similar qualifications.\n\nA 2017 study found that minorities receive a lower boost to earnings from legal education than whites and were less likely to practice law. However, it is difficult to determine the extent to which this is the result of racial discrimination.\n\nIn a well-known longitudinal study, the University of Michigan Law School (U.S.A.) graduates were surveyed between 1987 and 1993, and later between 1994 and 2000 to measure the changes in the wage gap. The group was intentionally chosen to have very similar characteristics. Although the gap in earnings between men and women was very small immediately after graduation, it widened in 15 years to the point that women earned 60 percent of what men earned. Even after factoring in women's choice of working for fewer hours, and worker qualifications and other factors, such as grades in law school and detailed work history data, in 2000 men were ahead of women by 11 percent in their earnings, which might be attributed to discrimination.\n\nOther studies on relatively homogeneous group of college graduates produced a similar unexplained gap, even for the highly educated women, such as Harvard MBAs in the United States. One such study focused on gender wage differences in 1985 between the college graduates. The graduates were chosen from the ones who earned their degree one or two years earlier. The researchers took college major, GPA (grade point average) and the educational institution the graduates attended into consideration. Yet, even after these factors were accounted for, there remained a 10-15 percent pay gap based on gender. Another study based on a 1993 survey of all college graduates had similar results for black and white women regarding gender differences in earnings. Both black women and white women made less money compared to white, non-Hispanic men. However, the results of earnings were mixed for Hispanic and Asian women when their earnings were compared to white, non-Hispanic men. A 2006 study looked at Harvard graduates. The researchers also controlled for educational performance such as GPA, SAT scores and college major, as well as time out of work and current occupation. The results showed 30 percent of the wage gap was unexplained. Therefore, although not all of the unexplained gaps attribute to discrimination, the results of the studies signal gender discrimination, even if these women are highly educated. Human capitalists argue that measurement and data problems contribute to this unexplained gap.\n\nOne very recent example of employment discrimination is to be seen among female Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) in the US. Although 62% of accountants and auditors are women, they are only 9% when it comes to the CFO post. According to the research not only are they underrepresented in the profession, but they are also underpaid, 16% less on average.\n\nAudit (or matched pairs) studies are done to examine hiring discrimination. In order to examine racial discrimination, the Urban Institute relied on a matched pairs study. They studied the employment outcomes for Hispanic, white and black men who were between the ages 19–25 in the early 1990s. The job position was entry-level. Thus, they matched pairs of black and white men and pairs of Hispanic and non-Hispanic men as testers. The testers applied for the advertised openings for the new positions. All of the testers were given fabricated resumes where all characteristics but their race/ethnicity was nearly identical. In addition, they went through training sessions for the interviews. If both people in the pair were offered the job or if both were rejected, the conclusion was there was no discrimination. However, if one person from the pair was given the job while the other was rejected, then they concluded there was discrimination. The Institute found out that black men were three times more likely to be refused for a job compared to white men; while the Hispanic men were three times more likely to be discriminated.\n\nThe Fair Employment Council of Greater Washington, Inc. did a similar test for women via pairing testers by race. The study found that the white female testers had higher chances of call back for interviews and job offers compared to black female testers. The percentage for interviews was by 10 percent more for the white testers. Among those interviewed, 50 percent white women were offered the job, while only 11 percent of black candidates received jobs offers. The white testers were also offered higher pay for the same job in cases where the same job was also offered to the black testers. The pay difference was 15 cents per hour more for the white candidates. Furthermore, black women were \"steered\" toward lower level jobs, while white women were even given some higher-level positions that were unadvertised.\n\nA matched-pairs study of homogeneous group audit experiment was done in the restaurants in Philadelphia, United States. Pseudo candidates handed their resumes to a random worker in the restaurants for the resume to be forwarded to the manager, which removed the effect of first impression on the employer. Also, the resumes were written in a three-level scale based on the qualifications of the pseudo applicants and resumes for each qualification level were delivered in three separate weeks. The results showed that male applicants were favored significantly. Men had higher interview callbacks or job offers. In addition, men did even better in high-pay restaurants compared to low-pay ones. In the low-price restaurants, for each man who received a job offer, the woman was rejected 29 percent of the time. There were no such cases where a man did not get the job offer but a woman did. In the high-priced restaurants, when the man got an offer, the woman was rejected 43 percent of the time. The same pattern that signaled discrimination was observed for the interviews. At the high-priced restaurants, women had 40 percent less chance of being interviewed and 50 percent less chance of receiving the job. Therefore, based on this study, it is correct to conclude discrimination in the same job may lead to gender wage discrimination. Note the high-priced restaurants are more likely to offer higher wages and higher tips for its workers compared to those with low prices.\n\nAnother experiment is the study of the effect of \"blind\" symphony orchestra auditions by Goldin and Rouse. In this case, the gender of the candidate was not known by the election committee because the auditions were done behind a curtain. Thus, only the skills were considered. As a result, the number of women accepted increased after “blind” auditions from less than 5 percent in 1970 to 25 percent in 1996 in the top five symphony orchestras in the U.S. In other words, a change occurred. This study tests for discrimination directly. The finding implies there was gender discrimination against woman musicians before the adoption of the screen on identity. However, this discriminatory practice was eliminated after the adoption and only qualifications of the individuals were taken into account.\n\nDarity and Mason [1998] summarize results of discriminatory behavior observed in other countries on the basis of \"correspondence tests\". In this type of tests, the researchers design fabricated resumes that signal the ethnicity of the pseudo applicants via the names on the resumes and send these letters to the employers. However, the qualifications written in the resumes are comparable. In England, Afro-American, Indian or Pakistani names were not called back for the interviews but Anglo-Saxons were called. In Australian audits, Greek or Vietnamese names had the same result; Anglo-Saxons were favored. According to the experiment done in the University of Michigan’s study, strikingly, even the “skin shade” and physical features of the individuals had negative effects the further the skin color and physical features were from white characteristics.\n\nDarity and Mason [1998] summarize the court cases on discrimination, in which employers were found guilty and huge awards were rewarded for plaintiffs. They argue that such cases establish the existence of discrimination. The plaintiffs were women or non-whites (St. Petersburg Times, 1997; Inter Press Service, 1996; The Chicago Tribune, 1997; The New York Times, 1993; the Christian Science Monitor, 1983; Los Angeles Times, 1996). Some examples are the following: In 1997, the allegations for the Publix Super Markets were “gender biases in on the job training, promotion, tenure and layoff policies; wage discrimination; occupational segregation; hostile work environment” (St. Petersburg Times, 1997, pp. 77). In 1996, allegations for Texaco were “racially discriminatory hiring, promotion and salary policies” (Inter Press Service, 1996; The Chicago Tribune, 1997, pp. 77). The six black workers, who were the plaintiffs, gave the taped racist comments of the white corporate officials as evidence (Inter Press Service, 1996; The Chicago Tribune, 1997). In 1983, the General Motors Corporation was sued both for gender and racial discrimination (the Christian Science Monitor, 1983). In 1993, the Shoney International was accused of “racial bias in promotion, tenure, and layoff policies; wage discrimination; hostile work environment (The New York Times, 1993, pp. 77) ”. The victims were granted $105 million (The New York Times, 1993). In 1996, the plaintiffs of the Pitney Bowes, Inc. case were granted $11.1 million (Los Angeles Times, 1996).\n\nNeoclassical labor economists explain the existence and persistence of discrimination based on tastes for discrimination and statistical discrimination theories. While overcrowding model moves away from neoclassical theory, the institutional models are non-neoclassical.\n\nThe Nobel Prize-winning economist Gary Becker claimed the markets punish the companies that discriminate because it is costly. His argument is as following:\n\nThe profitability of the company that discriminates is decreased, and the loss is \"directly proportional to how much the employer's decision was based on prejudice, rather than on merit.\" Indeed, choosing a worker with lower performance (in comparison to salary) causes losses proportional to the difference in performance. Similarly, the customers who discriminate against certain kinds of workers in favor of less effective have to pay more for their services, in the average.\n\nIf a company discriminates, it typically loses profitability and market share to the companies that do not discriminate, unless the state limits free competition protecting the discriminators.\n\nHowever, there is a counter-argument against Becker's claim. As Becker conceptualized, discrimination is the personal prejudice or a \"taste\" associated with a specific group, originally formulated to explain employment discrimination based on race. The theory is based on the idea that markets punish the discriminator in the long run as discrimination is costly in the long run for the discriminator. There are three types of discrimination, namely: employer, employee and customer.\n\nIn the first one, the employer has a taste for discriminating against women and is willing to pay the higher cost of hiring men instead of women. Thus, the non-pecuniary cost brings an additional cost of discrimination in dollar terms; the full cost of employing women is the wage paid plus this additional cost of discrimination. For the total cost of men and women to be equal, women are paid less than men. In the second type, the male employees have a distaste for working with women employees. Because of the non-pecuniary cost, they must be paid more than women. In the third type, the customers or clients have a distaste for being served by woman employees. Therefore, the customers are willing to pay higher prices for a good or a service in order not to be served by women. The as-if non-pecuniary cost is associated with purchasing goods or services from women.\n\nBecker's theory states that discrimination cannot exist in the long run because it is costly. However, discrimination seems to persist in the long run; it declined only after the Civil Rights Act, as it was seen in the economic history. Regardless, it is argued that Becker's theory holds for occupational segregation. For instance, men are more likely to work as truck drivers, or the female customers are more likely to choose to be served by women lingerie salespersons because of preferences. However, this segregation cannot explain the wage differentials. In other words, occupational segregation is an outcome of group-typing of employment between different groups but consumer discrimination does not cause wage differentials. Thus, customer discrimination theory fails to explain the combination of employment segregation and the wage differentials. However, the data points out the jobs associated with women suffer from lower pay.\n\nEdmund Phelps [1972] introduced the assumption of uncertainty in hiring decisions. When employers make a hiring decision, although they can scrutinize the qualifications of the applicants, they cannot know for sure which applicant would perform better or would be more stable. Thus, they are more likely to hire the male applicants over the females, if they believe on \"average\" men are more productive and more stable. This general view affects the decision of the employer about the individual on the basis of information on the group averages.\n\nBlau et al. [2010] point out the harmful consequences of discrimination via feedback effects regardless of the initial cause of discrimination. The non-neoclassical insight that is not part of the statistical discrimination sheds light onto uncertainty. If a woman is given less firm-specific training and is assigned to lower-paid jobs where the cost of her resigning is low based on the general view of women, then this woman is more likely to quit her job, fulfilling the expectations, thus to reinforce group averages held by employers. However, if the employer invests a lot on her, the chance that she will stay is higher.\n\nThis non-neoclassical model was first developed by Bergmann. According to the model, outcome of the occupational segregation is wage differentials between two genders. The reasons for segregation may be socialization, individual decisions, or labor market discrimination. Wage differentials occur when the job opportunities or demand for the female-dominated sector is less than the supply of women. According to the evidence, in general female dominated jobs pay less than male dominated jobs. The pay is low because of the high number of women who choose female dominated jobs or they do not have other opportunities.\n\nWhen there is no discrimination in the market and both female and male workers are equally productive, wages are the same regardless of type of the job, F or M jobs. Assume the equilibrium wages in job F is higher than that of the M jobs. Intuitively, the workers in the less paying job will transfer to the other sector. This movement ceases only when the wages in two sectors are equal. Therefore, when the market is free of discrimination, wages are the same for different types of jobs, provided that there is sufficient time for adjustment and attractiveness of each job is the same.\n\nWhen there is discrimination in the M jobs against women workers, or when women prefer the F jobs, economic outcomes change. When there is a limit of available M jobs, its supply decreases; thus, wages of the M jobs increase. Because women cannot enter to the M jobs or they choose the F jobs, they “crowd” into F jobs. Consequently, higher supply of F jobs decreases its wage rates. Briefly, segregation causes the gender wage differentials regardless of the equal skills.\n\nAnother striking point of overcrowding model is productivity. Since women in the F jobs cost less it is rational to substitute labor for capital. On the contrary, it is rational to substitute capital for labor in the M jobs. Therefore, overcrowding causes wage differentials and it makes women less productive although they were \"potentially\" equally productive initially.\n\nThe question of why women prefer working in female-dominated sectors is an important one. Some advocate this choice stems from inherently different talents or preferences; some insist it is due to the differences in socialization and division of labor in the household; some believe it is because of discrimination in some occupations.\n\nInstitutional models of discrimination indicate labor markets are not as flexible as it is explained in the competitive models. Rigidities are seen in the institutional arrangements, or in the monopoly power. Race and gender differences overlap with labor market institutions. Women occupy certain jobs as versus men. However, institutional models do not explain discrimination but describe how labor markets work to disadvantage women and blacks. Thus, institutional models do not subscribe to the neoclassical definition of discrimination.\n\nThe firms hire workers outside or use internal workforce based on worker progress, which plays a role in climbing the promotion ladder. Big firms usually put the workers into groups in order to have similarity within the groups. When employers think certain groups have different characteristics related to their productivity, statistical discrimination may occur. Consequently, workers might be segregated based on gender and race.\n\nPeter Doeringer and Michael Piore [1971] established the dual labor market model. In this model, primary jobs are the ones with high firm-specific skills, high wages, good promotion opportunities and long-term attachment. On the contrary, secondary jobs are the ones with less skill requirement, lower wages, less promotion opportunities and higher labor turnover. The dual labor market model combined with the gender discrimination suggests that men dominate the primary jobs and that women are over-represented in the secondary jobs.\n\nThe difference between primary and secondary jobs also creates productivity differences, such as different level of on-the-job training. Moreover, women have lower incentives for stability since benefits of secondary jobs are less.\n\nMoreover, lack of informal networking from male colleagues, visualizing women in the female dominated jobs and lack of encouragement do affect the economic outcomes for women. They are subject to unintentional institutional discrimination, which alters their productivity, promotion, and earnings negatively.\n\nThe under-representation of women in top-level management might be explained by the “pipeline” argument which states that women are newcomers and it takes time to move toward the upper levels. The other argument is about barriers that prevent women from advance positions. However, some of these barriers are non-discriminatory. Work and family conflicts is an example of why there are fewer females in the top corporate positions.\n\nYet, both the pipeline and work-family conflict together cannot explain the very low representation of women in the corporations. Discrimination and subtle barriers still count as a factor for preventing women from exploring opportunities. Moreover, it was found out that when the chairman or CEO of the corporation was a woman, the number of women working in the high level positions and their earnings increased around 10-20 percent. The effect of female under-representation on earnings is seen in the 1500 S&P firms studied. The findings indicate women executives earn 45 percent less than male executives based on the 2.5 percent of executives in the sample. Some of the gap is due to seniority, yet mostly it was because of the under-representation of women in CEO, chair or president positions and the fact that women managed smaller companies.\n\nNon-neoclassical economists point out subtle barriers play a huge role in women's disadvantage. These barriers are difficult to document and to remove. For instance, women are left out of male's network. Moreover, the general perception is men are better at managing others, which is seen in the Catalyst's Fortune 1000 survey. The 40 percent of women executives said that they believed man had difficulty when they were managed by women. A separate study found out majority believed in “women, more than men, manifest leadership styles associated with effective performance as leaders,… more people prefer male than female bosses”. In another study in the U.S. about origins of gender division of labor, people were asked these two questions “When jobs are scarce, men should have more right to a job than women?” and “On the whole, men make better political leaders than women do?” Some answers indicated discriminatory act.\n\nNeoclassical economics ignores logical explanations of how self-fulfilling prophecy by the employers affect the motivation and psychology of women and minority groups and thus it alters the decision making of individuals regarding human capital. This is the feedback explanation that correlates with the drop in human capital investment (such as more schooling or training) attainment by women and minorities.\n\nMoreover, power and social relationships link discrimination to sexism and racism, which is ignored in the neoclassical theory. Furthermore, along with the classical and Marxist theory of competition, racial-gender structure of the job is related to the bargaining power and thus wage differential. Therefore, discrimination persists since racial and gender characteristics shape who gets the higher paying jobs, both within and between occupations. In short, the power relationships are embedded in the labor market, which are neglected in the neoclassical approach.\n\nIn addition, critics have argued that the neoclassical measurement of discrimination is flawed. As Figart [1997] points out, conventional methods do not put gender or race into the heart of the analysis and they measure discrimination as the unexplained residual. As a result, we are not informed about the causes and nature of discrimination. She argues that gender and race should not be marginal to the analysis but at the center and suggests a more dynamic analysis for discrimination. Figart argues gender is more than a dummy variable since gender is fundamental to the economy. Moreover, the segmentation in the labor market, institutional variables and non-market factors affect wage differentials and women dominate low-paid occupations. Again, none of these is because of productivity differentials nor are they the outcome of voluntary choices. Figart also indicates how women's jobs are associated with unskilled work. For that reason, men don't like association of “their” jobs with women or femininity, skills are engendered.\n\nAlthough empirical evidence is a tool to use to prove discrimination, it is important to pay attention to the biases involved in using this tool. The biases might cause under or over-estimation of labor market discrimination. There is lack of information on some individual qualifications which indeed affect their potential productivity. The factors such as motivation or work effort, which affects incomes, are difficult to be scaled. Moreover, information regarding the type of college degree may not be available. In short, all the job qualification related factors are not included to study gender wage gap.\n\nAn example for underestimation is the feedback effect of labor market discrimination. That is, women may choose to invest less in human capital such as pursuing a college degree based on the current wage gap, which is also a result of discrimination against women. Another reason may be the childbearing responsibilities of women standing as a negative impact on women's careers since some women may choose to withdraw from the labor market with their own will. By doing so, they give up opportunities, such as the firm-specific training that would have potentially helped with their job promotion or reduction in the wage gap. An example of over-estimation of gender discrimination is men might have been more motivated at work. Therefore, it is wrong to equate unexplained wage gap with discrimination, although most of the gap is a result of discrimination, but \"not all\".\nFurthermore, empirical evidence can also be twisted to show that discrimination does not exist or it is so trivial that it can be ignored. This was seen in the results and interpretation of the results of Armed Forces Qualifying Test, (AFQT). Neal and Johnson [1996] claimed the economic differences in the black and white labor markets were due to the \"pre-market factors,\" not to discrimination. Darity and Mason's [1998] study of the same case disagrees with the findings of Neal and Johnson's [1996]. They take into account factors such as age family background, school quality and psychology into consideration to make the adjustments.\n\nThere are legal and structural theories forming the basis of employment discrimination.\n\nThe pinnacle of anti-employment discrimination law is Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, and national origin. In this section, two theories are laid out: disparate treatment and disparate impact.\n\nDisparate treatment is what most people commonly think of discrimination- intentional. Under this theory, the employee must belong to a protected class, apply and be qualified for a job where the employer was seeking applicants, and get rejected from the job. The job position must then still be open post-rejection for a discrimination case to be made.\n\nIn many cases, the courts found it difficult to prove intentional discrimination, thus the disparate impact legal theory was added. It covers the more complicated side of discrimination where \"some work criterion was fair in form but discriminatory in practice\". Employees must prove that the employment practices used by an employer causes disparate impact on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, and national origin. To help with cases, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission established a four-fifths rule where federal enforcement agencies takes a \"selection rate for any race, sex, or ethnic group which is less than four-fifths\" as evidence for disparate impact.\n\nIn a concept called \"token dynamics\", there are three noticeable occurrences in discrimination: \"visibility that leads to performance pressures, contrast effects that lead to social isolation of the token, and role encapsulation or stereotyping of the token\". In the first occurrence, the token is noticeable because of his or her race, age, sex, or physical disability which is different from the majority of workers. This visibility directs more attention to the token and he or she is subjected to more pressure from superiors when compared to other employees. Not only is this token scrutinized more, but there is an unspoken expectation that his or her performance is a representation of all members of his or her group. A common example is a solo female engineer. Her work is examined under a more judgmental gaze than her male coworkers because of her minority status. If she were to underperform, her failures speak on behalf of all female engineers; thus their ability to be seen as successful engineers is threatened. In the second occurrence of contrast, differences between tokens and the majority are emphasized which isolates the token group and increases unity among the majority. Going along with the previous example, male engineers \"may start to identify themselves as men, instead of simply as engineers, once a token woman engineer shows up. Moreover, they may notice characteristics they may have in common that the token lacks, such as experience in the military or team sports\". The third occurrence, stereotyping, is its own theory discussed below.\n\nBehavioral scientists classify stereotyping into prescriptive and descriptive. \"Prescriptive stereotypes specify how men and women, \"should\" behave, whereas descriptive stereotypes specify how men and women, \"do\" behave\". In the field of employment, descriptive stereotyping is more applicable and occurs more often. One common example is when superiors assume a woman will be upset if criticized, so they might not provide the accurate feedback the woman needs to improve. This then hinders her chances of promotion, especially when superiors have given men, who they believe will \"take it like a man\", the information they need to improve their performance. This kind of stereotyping can also affect what jobs employers give to their male and female applicants. Men and women are frequently \"matched\" with jobs that are themselves stereotyped according to the different characteristics and duties associated with the job. The most significant example is the top position of CEO or manager which has been associated with male traits for over twenty years.\n\nEmployment discrimination can have individual, group, and organizational consequences.\n\nPerceived discrimination in the workplace has been found to have negative effects on an individual's body and mind- mainly blood pressure, heart disease, psychological distress, and self-reported health. In a study from 1977 to 1982, women who perceived they were experiencing discrimination were 50% more likely to have a physical limitation in 1989 compared to those who did not perceive discriminatory experiences.\n\nThere have been two common ways of reacting to discrimination: emotion-focused coping and problem-focused coping. In the former, individuals protect their self-esteem by attributing any discrepancies in hiring or promotion to discrimination instead of reflecting on their own potential shortcomings. In the latter, individuals attempt to change aspects of themselves that caused them to be discriminated against to prevent themselves from future discrimination. Some common examples are obese people losing weight or mentally ill people seeking therapy. This approach can only be sought out when the point of discrimination is not unchangeable like race or age.\n\nUnlike the individual level, discrimination at the group level can induce feelings of fear and mistrust within the group discriminated which often results in inhibited performance. The effects are most commonly seen with age, disability, and race and ethnicity.\n\nAge discrimination is prevalent because companies have to consider how long older works will stay and the costs of their health insurance accordingly. When companies let these insecurities affect their treatment of older workers- hostile work environment, demotions, lower employment rates-, these older workers who perceive this discrimination are 59% more likely to leave their current job.\n\nThough there are currently anti-discrimination laws on disability, namely the Americans with Disabilities Act, discrimination against weight is still prevalent. What makes the issue complicated is the fact that obesity only counts as a disability when someone is \"morbidly obese\" (100% over their ideal body weight) or obese (20% over their ideal body weight) as a result of psychological conditions. Considering that only 0.5% of people in the United States are morbidly obese, 99.5% of obese individuals have the burden to prove their excess weight comes from psychological causes if they are to be protected from anti-discrimination law.\n\nAnother body of people that face widespread group discrimination are racial minorities, mainly Blacks and Hispanics. They are rated as less favorable than White applicants and this kind of prejudice makes them \"suffer from increased role ambiguity, role conflict, and work tension, as well as decreased organizational commitment and job satisfaction\". Further analysis and statistics of the discrimination they face are discussed below by region.\n\nCompanies hurt from their own discriminatory practices on a legal, economic, and reputational risk basis. In 2005 alone, 146,000 charges of discrimination were filed. Discrimination litigation can be very expensive when taking into account the time spent in court and the outcome of the ruling where the possibility of settlement money comes in to play as well as \"hiring, promotion, backpay, or reinstatement\" for the prosecutor. Public cases of discrimination, regardless of being taken to court, has a negative effect on a company's reputation which typically decreases sales.\n\nAnother viewpoint on discrimination affecting profit is that companies may not be using their employees they discriminate to the best of their ability. Some see these employees as an \"untapped niche\" (a small, specialist field or group that has not been used to its full potential) especially since diversity management is positively correlated with corporate financial performance.\n\nBlau et al. [2010] sum up the argument for government intervention to address discrimination. First, discrimination prevents equity or fairness, when an equally qualified person does not receive equal treatment as another on account of race or gender. Second, discrimination results in inefficient allocation of resources because workers are not hired, promoted or rewarded based on their skills or productivity.\n\nBecker claimed discrimination in the labor market is costly to employers. His theory is based on the assumption that in order to survive in the existence of competitive markets, employers cannot discriminate in the long run. Strongly believing in the perfect functioning of markets without government or trade union intervention, it was claimed that employer discrimination declines in the long run without political intervention. On the contrary, intervention of human capital investment and regulation of racial interactions make it worse for the disadvantaged groups. Moreover, it was claimed discrimination could only persist due to the \"taste\" for discrimination and lower education level of blacks explained the labor-market discrimination.\n\nHowever, based on the empirical study, either human capital theory or Becker's tastes theory does not fully explain racial occupational segregation. That is seen with the increase in black work force in the South as an effect of Civil Rights laws in the 1960s. Therefore, human-capital and \"taste-for-discrimination\" are not sufficient explanations and government intervention is effective. Becker's claim about employers would not discriminate as it is costly in the competitive markets is weakened by the evidence from real life facts. Sundstrom [1994] points out, it was also costly to violate the social norms since customers could stop buying the employer's goods or services; or the workers could quit working or drop their work effort. Moreover, even if the workers or the customers did not participate in such behaviors, the employer would not take the risk of experimenting by going against the social norms. This was seen from the historical data that compares the economic outcomes for the white and black races.\n\nWomen worked in the U.S. industrial sector during the World War II. However, after the war most women quit jobs and returned home for domestic production or traditional jobs. The departure of women from industrial jobs is argued to represent a case of discrimination.\n\nThe supply theory claims voluntary movement because women worked due to extraordinary situation and they chose to quit. Their involvement was based on patriotic feelings and their exit depended on personal preferences and it was a response to feminist ideology. On the contrary, demand theory claims working class women changed occupations due to high industrial wages. Tobias and Anderson [1974] present the counter argument for supply theory. Furthermore, there were both housewives and working class women, who had been working prior to the war in different occupations. According to Women's Bureau's interviews, majority of women who had been working wanted to continue to work after the war. Despite their will, they were laid off more than men. Most of them possibly had to choose lower-paying jobs.\n\nThe exit pattern shows their quit was not voluntarily. There were pressures women faced, such as change in position to janitorial job, more or new responsibilities at work, and additional or changed shifts that would not fit their schedules, which were all known by the management. Women lay-off rates were higher than men. Briefly, women were treated unequally postwar period at the job market although productivity of women was equal to that of men and women's wage cost was lower.\n\nSupply and demand theories do not provide sufficient explanation regarding women's absence in industrial firms after the war. It is wrong to associate patriotism with the war-time women workers since some housewives quit their jobs at early periods of the war when the country needed their help the most. Some of the housewives were forced to quit as the second highest lay-off rate belonged to them. If their only concern was the well-being of their country at the war time, less persistence to exit would have been observed.\n\nThe demand theory partially holds as there were women who worked pre-war time for occupational and wage mobility opportunities. However, these experienced women workers voluntarily quit working more than housewives did. The reason is work-experienced women had many opportunities. However, women with fewer options of where to work, such as African-Americans, older married women, housewives and the ones working in lowest paying jobs, wanted to keep their jobs as long as possible. Thus, their leave was involuntarily.\n\nAlthough women's job performance at least as good as men's, instead of trying to equalize pays, women's wages were kept below than men's. Women had higher lay-off rates but also they were not rehired despite the boom in the auto industry. Some argue this was due to the lack of a civil rights movement protecting the rights of women as it did for black men. This explanation is unsatisfactory since it does not explain anti-women worker behavior of the management or lack of protection from unions. Kossoudji et al. [1992] believe it was due to the need for two separate wage and benefits packages for men and women. Women had child care responsibilities such as day care arrangements and maternity leave.\n\nSee Employment discrimination law in the United States.\n\nBefore the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in the U.S., employment discrimination was legal and widely practiced. The newspaper ads for various jobs indicated racial and gender discrimination explicitly and implicitly. These behaviors were all built on the assumption that women and blacks were inferior. At the turn of the 21st century, discrimination is still practiced but to a lesser degree and less overtly. The progress on the evident discrimination problem is visible. However, the effect of past is persistent on the economic outcomes, such as historical wage settings that influence current wages. Women are not only under-represented in the high-rank and high-paid jobs, but they are also over-represented in the secondary and lower-paid jobs. The interviews, personal law, wage data and confidential employment records with salaries along with other evidence show gender segregation and its effects on the labor market.\n\nAlthough there is some inevitable occupational segregation based people's preferences, discrimination does exist. Moreover, persistence of discrimination remains even after government intervention. There is a decline in the wage gap due to three reasons: male wages decreased and women's wages increased; secondly, the human capital gap between the two genders and experience gap have been closing; thirdly, legal pressures decreased discrimination but there is still inequality in the national economy of the U.S.\n\nThe correlation of Civil Rights Act and decrease in discrimination suggests the Act served its purpose. Therefore, it is correct to say leaving discrimination to diminish to the competitive markets is wrong, as Becker had claimed. In 1961, Kennedy issued an executive order calling for a presidential commission on the status of women. In 1963, Equal Pay Act, which required the employers to pay the wages to men and women for the same work qualifications, was passed. In 1964, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act with the exception \"bona fide\" occupational qualifications (BFOQ) was accepted while the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) responsible to check whether the Equal Pay Act and Title VII were followed. The Title VII of the Civil Rights Act was first written to forbid employment discrimination. Initially it prohibited discrimination on the basis of race, religion and national origin. However, inclusion of the sex accepted last minute. The Title VII addresses both the disparate impact and disparate treatment. In 1965, Executive Order 11246 was passed and in 1967, it was changed to include sex, which prohibited employment discrimination by all employers with federal contracts and subcontracts. In addition, it makes sure affirmative action takes place. In 1986, sexual harassment was accepted as illegal with Supreme Court’s decision. In 1998, the largest sexual harassment settlement was negotiated with $34 million to be paid to female workers of Mitsubishi.\n\nAs a result of these government policies occupational segregation decreased. The gender wage gap started to get smaller after the 1980s, most likely due to indirect feedback effects which took time, but an immediate increase in the earnings of blacks was observed in 1964. However, the laws still do not control discrimination fully in terms of hiring, promotion and training programs etc.\n\nExecutive Order 11246, which is enforced by the Office of Federal Contract Compliance, is an attempt to eliminate the gap between the advantaged and disadvantaged groups on account of gender and race. It requires contractors to observe their employment patterns. If there is under-representation of women and minorities, “goals and timetables” are created to employ more of the disadvantaged groups on account of gender and race. The pros and cons of affirmative action have been discussed. Some believe discrimination does not exist at all or even it does, prohibiting it is enough, and affirmative action is not needed. Some agree that some affirmative action is needed but they have considerations regarding the use of goals and timetables as they might be too strict. Some think strong affirmative action is needed but they are worried if there would be really sincere effort to hire the qualified individuals from the vulnerable groups.\n\nRodgers et al. [2003] state minimum wage can be used as a tool to combat discrimination, as well and to promote equality. Since discrimination is embedded in the labor market and affects its functioning, and discrimination creates a basis for labor market segregation and for occupational segregation, labor markets institutions and policies can be used to reduce the inequalities. Minimum wage is one of these policies that could be used.\n\nThe minimum wage has benefits because it alters the external market wage for women, provides a mechanism for regular increases in the wages and arranges social security. It affects women in the informal sector, which is highly dominated by women partly as an outcome of discrimination, by being a reference point. However, disadvantages include: first, the wage might be very low when skills and sector aren’t taken into consideration, secondly, adjustment may take time, thirdly, enforcement may not be feasible and finally when there are public spending cuts, the real value of the wage may decline due to social security.\n\nOthers have argued that minimum wage simply shifts wage discrimination to employment discrimination. The logic is that if market wages are lower for minorities, then employers have an economic incentive to prefer hiring equally qualified minority candidates, whereas if all workers must be paid the same amount then employers will instead discriminate by not hiring minorities. Minimum wage laws could be responsible for the very high unemployment rate of black teenagers compared to white teenagers.\n\nOne approach that mitigates discrimination by emphasizing skills is workforce development programs. Federally funded job training caters to the unemployed and minority groups by focusing on providing opportunities for them including those who have been discriminated against. The Department of Labor has several employment training programs and resources targeted to support dislocated workers, Native Americans, people with disabilities, seniors, veterans, at risk youth, and other minorities.\nEmployers should evaluate their workplace environment, structure, and activities to ensure that discrimination is minimized. Through organizing heterogenous work groups, interdependence, recognizing the influence of salience, creating formalized evaluation systems, and taking accountability of actions, companies can improve current discriminatory practices that may be occurring.\n\nTo promote unity throughout the workplace environment and discourage exclusion and isolation of certain minorities, work groups should rarely ever be created based on ascriptive characteristics. This way, employees are well integrated regardless of their race, sex, ethnicity, or age.\n\nWorking together in these heterogenous groups will reduce bias among those who are stereotyping by \"encouraging them to notice counter-stereotypic information and form more individuated and accurate impressions\". Collaboration among coworkers with different ascriptive characteristics works to break stereotyping and let members evaluate their coworkers on a more personal level and make more accurate judgments based on experience, not stereotypes.\n\nThough most do not realize it, people are highly susceptible to stereotyping after focusing on a stereotyped category. For example, \"men who were primed with stereotypic statements about women were more likely to ask a female job applicant 'sexist' questions and exhibit sexualized behavior (and it took them longer than nonprimed men to recognize non sexist words). Thus, a comment about pregnancy, a sex discrimination lawsuit, or diversity immediately before a committee evaluates a female job candidate is likely to exacerbate sex stereotyping in the evaluation.\" Employers can learn from this by making an effort to not bring up a minority-related comment before evaluating an employee in that group.\n\nThe more informal and unstructured employee observations and evaluations are, the more vulnerable superiors will be to bias. With a formalized evaluation system that includes objective, reliable, specific, and timely performance data, employers can put their best foot forward in managing a fair, non-discriminatory workplace.\n\nAs with any problem, being accountable for one's actions greatly reduces the behavior associated with that problem. \"Accountability not only reduces the expression of biases, it also reduces bias in non-conscious cognitive processes, such as the encoding of information\".\n\nSome employers have made efforts to reduce the impact of unconscious or unintentional systematic bias. After a study found a substantial increase in hiring equity, some musical organizations have adopted the blind audition; in other fields like software engineering, communications, and design, this has taken the form of an anonymized response to an job application or interview challenge.\n\nThe language of job listings has been scrutinized; some phrases or wording are believed to resonate with particular demographics, or stereotypes about particular demographics, and lead to some women and minorities not applying because they can less easily visualized themselves in the position. Examples cited include \"rockstar\" (which may imply a male) and nurturing vs. dominant language. For example: \"Superior ability to satisfy customers and manage company’s association with them\" vs. \"Sensitive to clients' needs, can develop warm client relationships\".\n\nEmployers concerned about gender and ethnic representation have adopted practices such as measuring demographics over time, setting diversity goals, intentionally recruiting in places beyond those familiar to existing staff, targeting additional recruiting to forums and social circles which are rich in female and minority candidates Pinterest has made its statistics and goals public, while increasing efforts at mentorship, identifying minority candidates early, recruiting more minority interns, and adopting a \"Rooney Rule\" where at least one minority or female candidate must be interviewed for each leadership position, even if they are not in the end hired.\n\nStatistics have found that women typically earn lower salaries than men for the same work, and some of this is due to differences in negotiations - either women do not ask for more money, or their requests are not granted at the same rate as men. The resulting differences can be compounded if future employers use previous salary as a benchmark for the next negotiation. To solve both of these problems, some companies have simply banned salary negotiations and use some other method (such as industry average) to peg the salary for a particular role. Others have made salary information for all employees public within the company, which allows any disparities between employees in the same roles to be detected and corrected. Some research has suggested greater representation of women in the economic modeling of the labor force.\n\nLaws often prohibit discrimination on the basis of:\n\n\nEmployees who complain may be protected against workplace or employment retaliation.\n\nMany countries have laws prohibiting employment discrimination including:\n\nSometimes these are part of broader anti-discrimination laws which cover housing or other issues.\n\nDuring the past decade, hiring discrimination was measured by means of the golden standard to measure unequal treatment in the labour market, i.e. correspondence experiments. Within these experiments, fictitious job applications that only differ in one characteristic, are sent to real vacancies. By monitoring the subsequent call-back from employers, unequal treatment based on this characteristic can be measured and can be given a causal interpretation.\n\nPervasive levels of ethnic labour market discrimination are found in Belgium, Greece, Ireland, Sweden and the UK. Job candidates with foreign names are found to get 24% to 52% less job interview invitations compared to equal candidates with native names. Ethnic discrimination is lower among the high-educated and in larger firms. In addition, unequal treatment is found to be heterogeneous by the labour market tightness in the occupation: compared to natives, candidates with a foreign-sounding name are equally often invited to a job interview if they apply for occupations for which vacancies are difficult to fill, but they have to send twice as many applications for occupations for which labor market tightness is low. Recent research shows that ethnic discrimination is nowadays driven by employers' concern that co-workers and customers prefer collaborating with natives. In addition, volunteering has found to be a way out of ethnic discrimination in the labour market.\n\nIn 2014, a large correspondence experiment was conducted in Belgium. Two applications of graduates, identical except that one revealed a disability (blindness, deafness or autism), were both sent out to 768 vacancies for which the disabled candidates could be expected to be as productive as their non-disabled counterparts, based on the vacancy information. In addition, the researcher randomly disclosed the entitlement to a substantial wage subsidy in the applications of the disabled candidates. Disabled candidates had a 48% lower chance to receive a positive reaction from the employer side compared with the non-disabled candidates. Potentially due to the fear of the red tape, disclosing a wage subsidy did not affect the employment opportunities of disabled candidates.\n\nWhile overall no severe levels of discrimination based on female gender is found, unequal treatment is still measured in particular situations, for instance when candidates apply for positions at a higher functional level in Belgium, when they apply at their fertiles ages in France, and when they apply for male-dominated occupations in Austria.\n\nDiscrimination based on sexual orientation varies by country. Revealing a lesbian sexual orientation (by means of mentioning an engagement in a rainbow organisation or by mentioning one's partner name) lowers employment opportunities in Cyprus and Greece but has, overall, no negative effect in Sweden and Belgium. In the latter country, even a positive effect of revealing a lesbian sexual orientation is found for women at their fertile ages.\n\nPervasive levels of age discrimination are found in Belgium, England, France, Spain and Sweden. Job candidates revealing older age are found to get 39% (in Belgium) to 72% (in France) less job interview invitations compared to equal candidates revealing a younger name. Discrimination is heterogeneous by the activity older candidates undertook during their additional post-educational years. In Belgium, they are only discriminated if they have more years of inactivity or irrelevant employment.\n\nFurthermore, European studies provide evidence for hiring discrimination based on former unemployment, trade union membership, beauty, HIV, religion, youth delinquency, former underemployment, and former depression. Employment at the army is found to have no causal effect on employment opportunities.\nResearch conducted in 2010 by University of Toronto researchers Philip Oreopoulos and Diane Dechief has found that resumes featuring English-sounding names sent to Canadian employers were more than 35% more likely to receive an interview call-back as compared to resumes featuring Chinese, Indian or Greek-sounding names. The study, supported by Metropolis BC., a federally funded diversity-research agency, was conducted to investigate why recent immigrants are struggling much more in the Canadian job markets than immigrants in the 1970s. In order to test this hypothesis, dozens of identical resumes, with only the name of the applicant changed, was sent to employers in Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal. Of the three cities surveyed, Metro Vancouver employers, both large and small, were the least swayed by the ethnicity of an applicants' name. Resumes submitted to employers here were just 20% more likely to get a callback than those with Chinese or Indian names. Through interviews with Canadian employers, the researchers found that name-based discrimination on application forms were a result of time-pressed employers being concerned that individuals with foreign backgrounds would have inadequate English-language and social skills for the Canadian marketplace.\n\nIn 2006, just over one-half (51%) of persons with disabilities were employed, compared to three in four persons without disabilities.\n\nEmployment rates are lower (under 40%) for persons with developmental and communication disabilities, whereas employment rates are closer to average for persons with a hearing impairment or for those who have problems with pain, mobility, and agility.\n\nData from Statistics Canada's Participation and Activity Limitation Survey (PALS) show that, in 2006, one in four unemployed persons with a disability and one in eight persons with a disability who are not in the workforce believe that, in the past five years, they've been refused a job because of their disability. One in twelve employed persons with a disability also reported that they experienced discrimination, with the proportion of discrimination \"increasing with the severity of activity limitations\".\n\nAccording to 2011 Statistics Canada data, the gender wage gap in Ontario is 26% for full-time, full-year workers. For every $1.00 earned by a male worker, a female worker earns 74 cents. In 1987, when the Pay Equity Act was passed, the gender wage gap was 36%. It is estimated that as much as 10 to 15% of the gender wage gap is due to discrimination.\n\nBy means of their seminal correspondence experiment, Marianne Bertrand and Sendhil Mullainathan, showed that applications from job candidates with white-sounding names got 50 percent more callbacks for interviews than those with African-American-sounding names in the United States at the start of this millennium. Similarly, a 2009 study found that black applicants for low-wage jobs in New York City were half as likely as whites to get callbacks with equivalent resumes, interpersonal skills, and demographic characteristics. A Current Population Survey in 2006 noted that African-Americans were twice as likely to be unemployed than whites. \"Black men spend significantly more time searching for work\"; and even when they are working, they have less stable employment, diminishing their work experience\".\n\nDiscrimination goes beyond the hiring process. \"Controlling for parental background, education, work experience, tenure, and training, white men earn roughly 15% more than comparable blacks.\"\n\nWithin each race, darker complexion is also discriminated against. Multiple studies have found that lighter skin blacks \"tend to have superior incomes and life chances\". \"Chicanos with lighter skin color and more european features had higher socioeconomic status\" and \"black Hispanics suffer close to ten times the proportionate income loss due to differential treatment of given characteristics than white Hispanics\".\n\n\"Main Article: Occupational Sexism and Motherhood Penalty.\"\n\nWomen have had a long history of discrimination in the workplace. Feminist theory points to the concept of a family wage- a rate substantial enough to support a man and his family- as the explanation to why women's labor is cheap, claiming it preserves \"male dominance and women's dependence in the family\". Though there has been legislation such as the Equal Pay Act that combat gender discrimination, the implications of the act are limited. \"As an amendment to the Fair Labor Standard Act, it exempted employers in agriculture, hotels, motels, restaurants, and laundries, as well as professional, managerial, and administrative personnel, outside salesworkers, and private household workers\". Because high concentrations of women work in these fields (34.8% of employed women of color and 5.1% of white women as private household workers, 21.6% and 13.8% working in service jobs, 9.3% and 3.7% as agricultural workers, and 8.1% and 17.2% as administrative workers), \"nearly 45% of all employed women, then, appear to have been exempt from the Equal Pay Act\".\n\nThe hourly wage rate for women is 65% of that of men, and annual earnings of full-time employed women is 71% of that of men. Among the male wage distribution, the average woman lies at the 33rd percentile.\n\nWithin women, another level of discrimination takes place among mothers. Historically, this inequality stems from the belief that mothers are less productive at work. Visibly pregnant women are often judged as less committed to their jobs, less dependable, and more emotional compared to women who aren't visibly pregnant. A study conducted in 1998 showed that the wage rates of women without children were 81.3% of men's pay, but 73.4% of men's pay for women with children. An audit study in 2007 found that, childless women receive 2.1 times as many callbacks than equally qualified mothers. Though it doesn't receive as much attention as the gender gap, motherhood is a significant quality that is discriminated against. In fact, the pay gap between mothers and non-mothers is larger than the pay gap between men and women.\nThe Williams Institute, a national think tank at UCLA School of Law, released a 2011 report that has identified sexual orientation and gender identification discrimination in the workplace. According to the report, between 15-43% of lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender workers have experienced being fired, denied promotions, or harassed due to their sexual orientation or gender identification. Additionally, only 20 states in the United States of America prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in the workplace. Wisconsin and New Hampshire prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation but not gender identity. On October 4, 2017 Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that the United States Department of Justice will no longer provide employment protection to transgender individuals under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, reversing the position of former Attorney General Eric Holder, during the Obama administration.\n\nMost age discrimination occurs among the older workers when employers hold negative stereotypes about them. Though evidence on declines in productivity is inconsistent, \"other evidence points to declines in acuteness of vision or hearing, ease of memorization, computational speed, etc.\". Another factor employers take into consideration is the higher cost of health or life insurance for older workers.\n\nA 2013 report was completed by the AARP to identify the impact of age discrimination in the workplace. Of those 1500 individuals who responded to AARP's 2013 Staying Ahead of the Curve survey, almost 64% of those over 45–74 said they have seen or have experienced age discrimination in the workplace. Of those, 92% say it was somewhat or very common in their workplace. \"In 1963 the unemployment rate for men over age 55 was a full percentage point higher (4.5 percent) than for men aged 35-54 (3.5%).\" Average durations of unemployment are higher for older workers as well- 21 weeks for men over age 45 as opposed to 14 weeks for men under 45.\n\nLaws restricting employment discrimination for persons who have been convicted of criminal offenses vary significantly by state. The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has issued guidelines for employers, intended to prevent criminal record discrimination from being used as a proxy to effect unlawful racial discrimination.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52548243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52548243", "title": "Fake news websites in the United States", "text": "Fake news websites in the United States\n\nFake news websites in the United States are fake news websites that deliberately publish fake news, but specifically target American audiences by creating or inflaming controversial topics such as the 2016 election. Most fake news websites target readers by impersonating or pretending to be real news organizations, such as the NBCNews.com.co, which can lead to legitimate news organizations further spreading their message. Most notable in the media are the many websites that made completely false claims about political candidates usually focusing on Hillary Clinton and President Donald Trump, as part of a larger campaign to gain viewers and ad revenue or spread disinformation. Additionally, satire websites have received criticism for not properly notifying readers that they are publishing false or satirical content, since many readers have been duped by seemingly legitimate articles.\n\nFake news websites deliberately publish hoaxes, propaganda, and disinformation to drive web traffic inflamed by social media. These sites are distinguished from news satire as fake news articles are usually fabricated to deliberately mislead readers, either for profit or more ambiguous reasons, such as disinformation campaigns. Many sites originate in or are promoted by Russia, Macedonia, Romania, and the United States. Many sites directly targeted the United States both because the U.S. is a high-value ad consumer and extraordinary claims to be more likely to be believed during a political crisis.\n\n\"The New York Times\" noted in a December 2016 article that fake news had previously maintained a presence on the Internet and within tabloid journalism in years prior to the 2016 U.S. election. However, prior to the election between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, fake news had not impacted the election process to such a high degree. Subsequent to that election, the issue of fake news turned into a political weapon between supporters of Clinton and Trump; due to these back-and-forth complaints, the definition of fake news as used for such argumentation became vaguer.\n\nFake news websites use a variety of methods to fool their readers into believing their content, either by attempting to persuade the readers that they are legitimate or by distracting readers with incredible news. \n\nFake news websites often have article titles that are incredulous, prompting the user to click on it and read more. This method of enticing readers to view content on their website often leads to exaggerated or even fake titles. When linked to from other sites, usually social media, having an extraordinary story title played a large part in tricking users who cannot tell if the article is real or not. This became especially relevant in the 2016 election. Additionally, out-of-context or manipulated images can cause readers to incorrectly assume an article's legitimacy, often due to their inflammatory image choice.\n\nAnother method of gaining readers is impersonating a legitimate news organization. This can come in two forms, either by copying a popular news organization's website formatting and pretending to be a lesser known publication or by completely copying an existing website down to its name and authors. Exact copies can trick viewers into believing the website is an official organization such as the Bloomberg.ma, or cnn-trending.com.\n\nMany popular fake news websites attempted to impersonate legitimate U.S. news publication by using a method known as Typosquatting, where fake websites get as close as possible to the original URL, only differing by a letter or two. A clear example is ABCnews.com.co. Typosquatting relies on readers not actually checking the address they typed or clicked on, since often these websites target common misspellings, slight misphrasings and abuse of top-level domains by used .com.co as opposed to .com. This also gets many viewers from social media who believe they are going to an actual news publication's website.\n\nSince the authors of these websites are not actual reporters, many fake news sites either pretend to have the identity of a reporter or simply do not include an 'About Us' page. These websites almost never have any other publications that reference them or information about themselves on tertiary sources like Wikipedia. When these sites get publicized by actual organizations, it gives them a bit of legitimacy, which helps them get viewers.\n\nFake news campaigns are when multiple fake news websites are published with similar topics in hopes of convincing a broader audience, either by quantity or by reference.\n\nFake news websites played a large part in the online news community during the election, reinforced by extreme exposure on Facebook and Google. Approximately 115 pro-Trump fake stories were shared on Facebook a total of 30 million times, and 41 pro-Clinton fake stories shared a total of 7.6 million times. There were two main reasons for creating fake news, economical and ideological. The teenagers in Veles, for example, produced stories favoring both Trump and Clinton that earned them tens of thousands of dollars. Some fake news providers seek to advance candidates they favor. The Romanian man who ran \"endingthefed.com\", for example, claims that he started the site mainly to help Donald Trump’s campaign.\n\n\nProfessor Philip N. Howard of the University of Oxford found that about one half of all news on Twitter directed at Michigan prior to the election was junk or fake. The other half came from real news sources. Criticized for failing to stop fake news from spreading on its platform during the 2016 election, Facebook thought that the problem could be solved by engineering, until May 2017 when it announced plans to hire 3,000 content reviewers. Fraudulent stories during the 2016 U.S. presidential election popularized on Facebook included a viral post that Pope Francis and actor Denzel Washington had endorsed Donald Trump. Alternet reported that Trump himself had been the source of some of the related misinformation.\n\nBuzzFeed News found that on Facebook during the last three months of the election, fake news stories received more attention than real news stories. It was discovered that the top twenty fake news stories had 8,711,000 shares, reactions, and comments, while the top twenty real news stories were only shared, commented on, and reacted to 7,367,000 times. One prominent fraudulent news story released after the election—that protesters at anti-Trump rallies in Austin, Texas, were \"bused in\"—started as a tweet by one individual with 40 Twitter followers. Over the next three days, the tweet was shared at least 16,000 times on Twitter and 350,000 times on Facebook, and promoted in the conservative blogosphere, before the individual stated that he had fabricated his assertions.\n\nPresident Barack Obama commented on the significant problem of fraudulent information on social networks impacting elections in a speech the day before Election Day in 2016, saying lies repeated on social media created a \"dust cloud of nonsense\". Shortly after the election, Obama again commented on the problem, saying in an appearance with German Chancellor Angela Merkel: \"if we can't discriminate between serious arguments and propaganda, then we have problems\". President Trump has also commented significantly on fake news, creating the Fake News Awards to highlight real news outlets that publicly misrepresented him.\n\nIn early November 2016, fake news sites and Internet forums falsely implicated the restaurant Comet Ping Pong and Democratic Party figures as part of a fictitious child trafficking ring, which was dubbed \"Pizzagate\". The conspiracy theory was debunked by the fact-checking website Snopes.com, \"The New York Times\", and Fox News. The restaurant's owners and staff were harassed and threatened on social media. After threats, Comet Ping Pong increased security for concerts held inside its premises.\n\nDays after the attack, Hillary Clinton spoke out on the dangers of fake news in a tribute speech to retiring Senator Harry Reid at the U.S. Capitol. Clinton called the spread of fraudulent news and fabricated propaganda an epidemic that flowed through social media. She said it posed a danger to citizens of the U.S. and to the country's political process. Clinton said in her speech she supported bills before the U.S. Congress to deal with fake news.\n\nMany of these websites are categorized as fake news because they have a satirical take on the news, but ultimately fail to convince their readers that their content is actually fake.\n\nMarco Chacon created the fake news site \"RealTrueNews\" to show his alt-right friends their alleged gullibility. Chacon wrote a fake transcript for Clinton's leaked speeches in which Clinton explains bronies to Goldman Sachs bankers. Chacon was shocked when his fiction was reported as factual by Fox News and he heard his writings on Megyn Kelly's \"The Kelly File\". Trace Gallagher repeated Chacon's fiction and falsely reported Clinton had called Bernie Sanders supporters a \"bucket of losers\" — a phrase made up by Chacon. After denials from Clinton staff, Megyn Kelly apologized with a public retraction.\n\nChacon later told Brent Bambury of CBC Radio One program \"Day 6\" that he was so shocked at readers' ignorance he felt it was like an episode from \"The Twilight Zone\". In an interview with ABC News, Chacon defended his site, saying it was an over-the-top parody of fake sites to teach his friends how ridiculous they were. The Daily Beast reported on the popularity of Chacon's fictions being reported as if it were factual and noted pro-Trump message boards and YouTube videos routinely believed them. In a follow-up piece Chacon wrote as a contributor for The Daily Beast after the 2016 U.S. election, he concluded those most susceptible to fake news were consumers who limited themselves to partisan media outlets.\n\nMediaFetcher.com is a fake news website generator. It has various templates for creating false articles about celebrities of a user's choice. Often users miss the disclaimer at the bottom of the page, before re-sharing This website has prompted many readers to speculate about the deaths of various celebrities.\n\nSimilar to Global Associated News, many readers have been tricked into believing the satire website Huzlers. Snopes has over 30 separate fact checks on their articles, each one correcting the fake news from Huzlers. According to the owners Pablo Reyes, Huzlers swear they’re not trying to fool anyone.\n\n70news was another WordPress-based blog site, which produced fake news during 2016; in particular, one story falsely stating that Donald Trump had earned the most popular votes in the 2016 U.S. election, fooled search engine algorithms and ranked very highly in results the day after the election.\n\nIn addition to sites run on a shoestring budget, there are sites with more of an infrastructure behind them: from Los Angeles founded Disinfomedia, a company that owns many fake news sites. He gave interviews under a pseudonym, Allen Montgomery. With the help of tech-company engineer John Jansen, journalists from NPR found Coler's identity. Coler explained how his intent for his project backfired; he wanted to expose alt-right echo chambers, and point out their gullibility. He stated his company wrote fake articles for the left-wing that were not shared as much as those from a right-wing point of view.\n\nBoth of these fake news websites heavily profited through the use of clickbait headlines, which were usually false. Paul Horner, a lead writer at both of these websites, focused significantly on the election, since it drew strong ad revenue. He told \"The Washington Post\" he made $10,000 per month through ads linked to fake news. After the election, Horner said that he felt his efforts helped Trump. In a follow-up interview with \"Rolling Stone\", Horner revealed \"The Washington Post\" profile piece on him spurred increased interest with over 60 interview requests from media including ABC News, CBS News, and CBS's \"Inside Edition\". Horner explained his writing style: articles that appeared legitimate at the top and became increasingly absurd as the reader progressed. These two websites often referenced each other.\n\nIn an interview with \"The New York Times\", Cameron Harris of Annapolis, Maryland, explains how he profited from creating fake news on his website, ChristianTimesNewspaper.com, that included a false story claiming that premarked ballots for Mrs. Clinton were being held in boxes at a warehouse in Ohio. Within a few days, the story had earned him around $5,000.\n\nDuring the summer of 2016, \"KMT 11 News\" published a series of fake news stories regarding celebrity appearances and filming locations in random local towns. These towns included Brentwood, Tennessee, Chandler, Arizona, and Atlantic City, New Jersey.\n\n44 percent of all US adults get their news from Facebook. Investigations conducted in 2017 showed nearly 40 percent of content by far-right Facebook pages and 19 percent of extreme left-leaning pages were false or misleading. In the 10 months leading up to the 2016 presidential election, 20 fake news articles shared on Facebook dramatically increased from 3 million \"shares, reactions, and comments\" to nearly 9 million. Mainstream media articles, on the other hand, declined from 12 million \"shares, reactions, and comments\" in February to only 7.3 million by Election Day.\n\nA study conducted by the Stanford Graduate School of Education from January 2015 revealed difficulties that middle, high school, and college students experienced in differentiating between advertisements and news articles, or identifying where information originated. One concern noted by researchers of the study is that democracy is at risk of devolving due to the ways in which falsehoods about civic issues can quickly spread with a growing ease of access. In one assessment, high school students were asked to evaluate two Facebook posts mentioning Donald Trump's candidacy for president; one was from an actual Fox News account and the other was from a fake account. Over 30 percent of students stated that the fake account was more reliable because of its graphic elements and only a quarter recognized the significance of the blue checkmark on Twitter and Facebook, which indicates that an account was marked as legitimate.\n\nElementary school teachers have decided to challenge results from the Stanford study by showing children the importance of not being deceived by what is fake. Fifth grade teacher Scott Bedley in California created his own version of \"Simon Says\", in which students are given three minutes to read an article and decide whether a news story is true or false. Those who think it's false are told to stand up while those who think it's true remain in their seats. Bedley worked with another teacher in Kansas, Todd Flory, to devise a \"fake news challenge\" via Skype whereby Flory's class picked two real articles and wrote a fake one, to be presented to Bedly's class in California. Teachers are promoting these learning techniques with the hope that such strategies and skills will stay with their students' for the rest of their adolescent and adult lives.\n\nAndreas Schleicher, the lead of Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, announced in 2017 that his organization was initiating \"global competencies” tests will be taken by 15-year-olds around the world alongside the OECD’s current reading, maths and science assessments, which are conducted every three years. This will test how well students can discern fake news outside of their sociopolitical bubble.\n\nJennifer Coogan, editor in chief of education startup Newsela, has partnered with the American Press Institute to help combat fake news consumption in addition to its regular literacy boosting skill classes. She believes its is now the teacher's responsibility to help teach their students about which media to believe since it is near impossible for a parent to monitor every source that a child will read.\n\nAfter receiving heavy criticism for not stopping the extreme number of fake news articles on its platform, Facebook announced in December 2016 that it would begin to flag fake news. If enough users flagged a story, the story would be sent to a 3rd party organization to check its veracity. If it failed, it would lose news feed priority as well as have \"disputed by 3rd party fact-checkers\" as a caption. Facebook is also attempting to reduce their financial incentives in an attempt to decrease the amount of fake news. The fact checking organizations involved are ABC News, Associated Press, FactCheck.org, PolitiFact and Snopes.\n\nIn 2018, Facebook has admitted that it 'fell short' in stopping outside meddling in the U.S. presidential election. This admission comes after increased scrutiny from lawmakers in a broader backlash against Silicon Valley as well as a Senate hearing for social media company executives.\n\nIn the aftermath of the election, many fact-checking websites teamed up with Facebook in order to check on the veracity of linked articles. Many of these organization have also posted lists of fake news websites and guides on how to identify them.\n\nMembers of the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee traveled to Ukraine and Poland in March 2016 and heard from officials in both countries on Russian operations to influence their affairs. U.S. Senator Angus King told the \"Portland Press Herald\" that tactics used by Russia during the 2016 U.S. election were analogous to those used against other countries. King recalled the legislators were informed by officials from both Ukraine and Poland about Russian tactics of \"planting fake news stories\" during elections. On November 20, 2016, King joined a letter in which seven members of the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee asked President Obama to publicize more information from the intelligence community on Russia's role in the U.S. election. In an interview with CNN, Senator King warned against ignoring the problem, saying it was a bipartisan issue.\n\nAmid worries about fake news and disinformation being spread by Russia, representatives in the U.S. Congress called for more action to track and counter alleged propaganda emanating from overseas. On November 20, 2016, legislators approved a measure within the National Defense Authorization Act to ask the U.S. State Department act against propaganda with an inter-agency panel. The legislation authorized funding of $160 million over a two-year-period. The initiative was developed through a bipartisan bill, the Countering Foreign Propaganda and Disinformation Act, written by U.S. Senators Republican Rob Portman and Democrat Chris Murphy. Portman urged more U.S. government action to counter propaganda. Murphy said after the election it was apparent the U.S. needed additional tactics to fight Russian propaganda. U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee member Ron Wyden said frustration over covert Russian propaganda was bipartisan.\n\nRepublican U.S. Senators stated they planned to hold hearings and investigate Russian influence on the 2016 U.S. elections. By doing so they went against the preference of incoming Republican President-elect Donald Trump, who downplayed any potential Russian meddling in the election. U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain and U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr discussed plans for collaboration on investigations of Russian cyberwarfare during the election. U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker planned a 2017 investigation. Senator Lindsey Graham indicated he would conduct a sweeping investigation in the 115th U.S. Congress session.\n\nIn 2013, the FTC as part of a campaign to crackdown on bogus health claims charged over $1.6 million to Beony International and owner Mario Milanovic, and Beony International employee Cody Adams. They conspired to promote their own weight loss products with fake news websites. These websites pretended to be legitimate news organizations and promoted their acai berry weight-loss products heavily.\n\nThe United States Department of State planned to use a unit called the Counter-Disinformation Team, formed with the intention of combating disinformation from the Russian government, and that it was disbanded in September 2015 after department heads missed the scope of propaganda before the 2016 U.S. election. The U.S. State Department put eight months into developing the unit before scrapping it. It would have been a reboot of the Active Measures Working Group set up by President Reagan. The Counter-Disinformation Team was set up under the Bureau of International Information Programs. Work began in 2014, with the intention to combat propaganda from Russian sources such as \"Russia Today.\" U.S. Intelligence officials explained to former National Security Agency analyst and counterintelligence officer John R. Schindler that the Obama Administration decided to cancel the unit as they were afraid of antagonizing Russia. U.S. Undersecretary of State for Public Diplomacy Richard Stengel was point person for the unit before it was canceled. Stengel previously wrote about disinformation by \"Russia Today.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32970823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32970823", "title": "Forgery Act 1913", "text": "Forgery Act 1913\n\nThe Forgery Act 1913 (3 & 4 Geo 5 c 27) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nThis Act was repealed for England and Wales and Northern Ireland by section 30 of, and Part I of the Schedule to, the Forgery and Counterfeiting Act 1981. It was repealed for the Republic of Ireland by section 3(1) of, and Schedule 1 to, the Criminal Justice (Theft and Fraud Offences) Act, 2001.\n\nSection 1 - Definition of forgery\n\nThis section provided a definition of forgery.\n\nSection 2 - Forgery of certain documents with intent to defraud\n\nAs to the mode of trial of offences under section 2(2)(a) in England and Wales, see sections 16(1) and (3) of, and paragraph 13(a) of Schedule 2 to, and paragraph 15(a) of Schedule 3 to, the Criminal Law Act 1977.\n\nSection 3 - Forgery of certain documents with intent to defraud or deceive\n\nSection 4 - Forgery of other documents with intent to defraud or to deceive a misdemeanour\n\nAs to the mode of trial of offences under this section in England and Wales, see section 16(3) of, and paragraph 15(b) of Schedule 3 to, the Criminal Law Act 1977.\n\nSection 5 - Forgery of seals and dies\n\nSection 6 - Uttering\n\nSection 7 - Demanding property on forged documents etc.\n\nAs to the mode of trial of offences under section 7(a) in England and Wales, see sections 16(1) and (3) of, and paragraph 13(b) of Schedule 2 to, and paragraph 15(c) of Schedule 3 to, the Criminal Law Act 1977.\n\nSection 8 - Possession of forged documents, seals and dies\n\nSection 9 - Making or having in possession paper or implements for forgery\n\nSection 10 - Purchasing or having in possession certain paper before it has been duly stamped and issued\n\nSection 11 - Accessories and abettors\n\nSection 12 - Punishments\n\nSection 13 - Jurisdiction of quarter sessions in England\n\nSection 14 - Venue\n\nSection 15 - Criminal possession\n\nSection 16 - Search warrants\n\nSection 17 - Form of indictment and proof of intent\n\nSection 18 - Interpretation\n\nSection 19 - Savings\n\nSection 20 - Repeals\n\nSection 21 - Extent\n\nSection 22 - Short title and commencement\n\nSchedule\n\nIndictments for ss. 2 and 6\n\nThe following specimen counts were formerly contained in paragraph 18 of the Second Schedule to the Indictments Act 1915 before it was repealed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3253893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3253893", "title": "Grand illumination", "text": "Grand illumination\n\nA Grand illumination is an outdoor ceremony involving the simultaneous activation of lights. The most common form of the ceremony involves turning on Christmas lights.\n\nOne of the older of such community events began at Colonial Williamsburg, the restored Historic District of the former Virginia capital city of Williamsburg in 1935. It is held there each year on the Sunday of the first full weekend in December. (That is, if December begins on a Sunday, the event is held the following Sunday.) Williamsburg's Grand Illumination, which also involves fireworks, is based loosely on the colonial (and English) tradition of placing lighted candles in the windows of homes and public buildings to celebrate a special event. The winning of a war and the birthday of the reigning monarch are examples of such national events. Many candles appeared in darkened windows in New York after the September 11, 2001 attacks. \n\nIn recent times, in many cities much larger than Williamsburg, such as Richmond, Virginia, multiple skyscrapers and other buildings are decorated with long mostly vertical strings of lights of a common theme, and are activated simultaneously in \"Grand Illumination\" ceremonies. Some communities, such as Norfolk, Virginia and Asheville, North Carolina, have Grand Illumination parades. In Chattanooga, Tennessee, a similar event is called the \"Grand Illumination On The River.\" In Oak Bluffs, Massachusetts, on Martha's Vineyard, Grand Illumination is one of the most significant events each summer, immediately preceded by a Community Sing. In the United Kingdom, the \"Grand Illumination\" ceremony is generally referred to as \"Turning On The Lights\", and occurs in virtually all towns and cities throughout the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13511652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13511652", "title": "Green Festivals", "text": "Green Festivals\n\nGreen Festivals was the largest and longest-running sustainability event in the United States. Green Festivals brings together the world’s most trusted companies, innovative brands, national and local businesses, pioneering thinkers and consumers, in one dynamic marketplace to share solutions for living healthier, more sustainable lives. Founded in 2002, Green Festivals is a zero-waste event, with over one million attendees.\n\nOriginally, conceived by Dr. Kevin Danaher of Global Exchange and executives as sustainable event producers Seven-Star including Alan van de Kamp Grau, Georgia Malki and Joseph Malki the event series started in 2003 launching in San Francisco. Greg Roberts was also seminal in the event's creation.\n\nGreen Festival offers the widest selection of products and services to work green, play green and live green – from food, fashion and health, to energy, home renovation, garden and design. Each Green Festival also features hands-on demos, educational activities for kids and families, panels featuring inspirational speakers, and live music and entertainment. Past speakers have included founder of RawYouth.org, Charles Chen; fashion designer Jeff Garner; vegan chef and healthy living educator Leslie Durso; Seth Goldman, president and CEO of Honest Tea; Amy Goodman, investigative journalist and syndicated columnist at Democracy Now!; and Katrina vanden Heuvel, Editor and Publisher of The Nation; among many others.\n\nGreen Festival is a marketplace of more than 250 eco-friendly businesses-everything from all-natural body care products and organic cotton clothing to Fair Trade gifts and home renovations from renewable resources, and vegan-vegetarian offerings based on organic, non-GMO or local artisanal foods. \n\nGreen Festival events are taking place in five cities in 2017, including New York City, Washington, D.C., San Francisco and Los Angeles, and Ft. Lauderdale. Past festival locations include Austin, Seattle, Chicago and Denver. \n\nSeven-Star, Inc. produced of 65 iterations of the event across the United States over its 13 year production history. In 2009, Seven-Star, Inc. won the E.P.A. Waste Wise Award for a 98.8 waste diversion effort. Seven-Star, Inc. sold its operation of the event series and passed of its assets and employees to Messe Stuttgart. In 2013, Green America and Global Exchange, two long-term partners of Green Festivals, joined forces with Messe Stuttgart, a leading international tradeshow organizer producing Europe’s largest consumer show on sustainability, green products and Fair Trade. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5458304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5458304", "title": "Heritage Days", "text": "Heritage Days\n\nHeritage Days is a three-day arts, crafts, and entertainment street festival held in downtown Rogersville, Tennessee during the second, full weekend of October each year. Organized around a harvest and history theme, the festival began in 1978. \n\nHawkins County Heritage Days began in October 1978 when a small crowd gathered despite a downpour on the Courthouse Square in downtown Rogersville to help raise funds for the nascent Rogersville Heritage Association.\n\nThe organization, whose purpose is to \"preserve, protect, promote, and celebrate heritage of Rogersville, Tennessee,\" envisioned an annual event to commemorate the historic town and to emulate the nineteenth century harvest festivals that Rogersville had seen after the American Civil War.\n\nSince its beginnings, Heritage Days has grown to an annual estimated crowd of almost 40,000 persons, more than six times the population of Rogersville. \n\nThe event is still sponsored by the Rogersville Heritage Association, and it still gathers artisans, craftsmen and women, and entertainers to perpetuate the mountain arts and way of life that have slowly vanished from the hills of East Tennessee.\n\nThe Southeast Tourism Society, a regional promoter of tourism and excellence in tourism programming, recognized Heritage Days as a \"Top Twenty Event in the Southeast for October\". The festival has been a multiple winner at Tennessee Festivals and Events.\nIn 2014 Oliver Pelle performed on Main Street for Heritage Days.\n\n"}
{"id": "35318437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35318437", "title": "Illustrators for Gender Equality", "text": "Illustrators for Gender Equality\n\nIllustrators for Gender Equality (Dibujantes por la Igualdad de Género) is an international art exhibition conceived in 2007 with the aim of encouraging gender equality through opinion cartoons.\n\nThe exhibition comprises artworks of 30 graphic artists from 20 countries, and the cartoons do not include any words in order to reach out to all audiences, regardless of language.\n\nTill present, Illustrators for Gender Equality has been shown in Spain, Mexico, Sweden, Cuba and Singapore; supported by organizations for the rights of women, cultural associations, governmental organizations and universities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBlasberg (Argentina); Tsocho Peev (Bulgaria); Menekse Cam (Turkey); Huang Kun,Yu Liang, Ni Rong (China); Elena Ospina, Vladdo (Colombia); Oki (Costa Rica); Falco, Ares, Adán (Cuba); Kilia (Dominican Republic); Pancho Cajas (Ecuador); Kimberly Gloria Choi (Hong Kong); Victor Ndula (Kenya), Boligan, Dario, Rocko (Mexico); Derkaoui (Morocco); Tayo Fatunla (Nigeria),Firuz Kutal (Norway); Florian-Doru Crihana (Romania); Omar Zevallos (Peru); Doris (Poland); Node, JRmora, Sex, Enio (Spain); Miel (Singapore); Enos (USA).\n\n"}
{"id": "14957549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14957549", "title": "Innishannon Steam and Vintage Rally", "text": "Innishannon Steam and Vintage Rally\n\nInnishannon Steam and Vintage Rally is held between Crossbarry and Innishannon (Irish: Inis Eonáin), a village on the main Cork–Bandon road (N71) in County Cork, Province of Munster, Ireland. The show takes place in a 38-acre site.\n\nThe rally has been running successfully since June 1998 and was awarded charitable status in 1999. All proceeds from the event go to the Irish Cancer Society. The rally takes place every June Bank Holiday weekend in Innishannon, Cork. The founding of the event was led by well known steam preservationist Tim Nagle of Kinsale.\n\nOver the years the event has gained significant support. In the first year IR£5000 was handed over to the Irish Cancer Society. The second year saw IR£13,500 was donated; in 2000 the amount more than doubled to IR£27,500. Unfortunately due to the foot-and-mouth disease outbreak in 2001 no rally was held, but in 2002 €35,500 went to the Irish Cancer Society. In 2003 the event raised €60,000, and in 2005 €65,000.\n\nOver the past 14 years, the rally has raised over €970,000 for the ICS. The rally has broken the €1 million mark in 2012.\n\nThe Innishannon Steam and Vintage replaced the nearby Upton Steam Rally started in 1967/68 by Ned Foley of Youghal (Steam Roller Engine), Thos (Thomas) Scanlan of Ballyhooley (Overtime Tractor x2) and Brendan O Connell of Ballincollig (Army Truck) to fund / support Upton Brothers of Charity, the rally which ceased in 1997, due to insurance concerns and costs.\n\nThis rally was originally created to promote heritage machinery of all classes at work and to provide a suitable venue for vintage enthusiasts to display their machines, as well as allowing the general public to view rare agricultural and mechanical treasures from the past. The exhibits include huge tractors, threshers, unique cars, motorbikes, oil and steam engines as well as experiencing a working forge. There is also a pet's corner, always popular with children, a cake sale, numerous stands and stalls with art and craft displays, a dog show, sheep dog trials, road rolling, stone crushing, line dancing and a non-stop disco. This is a fun-day out for collectors, enthusiasts and visitors alike with car parking and camping facilities set up in the village. Innishannon itself dates back to the sixth century and is surrounded by an ancient woodland and castle ruins.\n\nThe rally seeks to promote steam vintage and other items of heritage and also provide a venue suitable to the enthusiast to show items of yesteryear. It also allows the public to view such rare treasures. It also seeks raise funds for a needy and deserving cause, The Irish Cancer Society.\n\nSteam Engines / Cars / Tractors / Fire Engine Display / Motorcycles / Working Area / Cake Sale / \nVintage Club Displays / Sheep Dog Trials / Stackmaking / Slow Tractor Race / Slow Steam Engine Race / Queen of Steam Competition / Oil Engines / Vintage Farm Machinery / Threshing / Wood Sawing / Stone Crushing / Road Rolling / Rural Crafts / Disco Dancing / Slow Steam Engine Race with Barrels / Musical Chairs with Tractors and Steam Engines / Dog Show for all Classes / Line Dancing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "443525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=443525", "title": "John F. Hartranft", "text": "John F. Hartranft\n\nJohn Frederick Hartranft (December 16, 1830 – October 17, 1889) was the United States military officer who read the death warrant to the individuals who were executed on July 7, 1865 for conspiring to assassinate American President Abraham Lincoln. Previously having achieved the rank of major general of the Union Army during the American Civil War, he had also been awarded the U.S. Medal of Honor for his actions in the First Battle of Bull Run.\n\nPost-war, he served as the 17th Governor of Pennsylvania from 1873 to 1879. \n\nHartranft was born in Fagleysville, a village in New Hanover Township, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, near Pottstown, the son of ethnic German Americans Mary Lydia (Bucher) and Samuel Engle Hartranft. \n\nHartranft had some local schooling in Norristown, where his family moved when he was a boy. He attended Marshall College in Mercersburg—a forerunner of Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster. He moved to New York, where he completed his degree in civil engineering in 1853 from Union College in Schenectady.\n\nHe briefly worked for two railroads in eastern Pennsylvania before returning home to Norristown to assist his father in the real estate and stage line businesses. In 1854, the young man was appointed deputy sheriff of Montgomery County, Pennsylvania. That same year, he married Sallie Douglas Sebring. They had six children, but three died in infancy.\n\nHartranft was active in the Norristown fire company and the local Freemason lodge. After \"reading the law\" as an apprentice with an established firm, Hartranft was admitted to the bar in 1860. He entered the Pennsylvania Militia, being promoted to the rank of colonel.\n\nIn April 1861, Hartranft raised a Montgomery County regiment of 90-day volunteers in Norristown, serving as colonel of the 4th Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry. When their term of enlistment was up, the regiment returned to Pennsylvania, although it was the eve of the First Battle of Bull Run, and firing had already begun. Hartranft was humiliated by his men's decision to go home.\n\nHe stayed to fight with the Army on July 21, 1861. This act earned him the Medal of Honor on August 21, 1886, for volunteering his services to fellow Pennsylvanian Col. William B. Franklin. His citation reads: \"Voluntarily served as an aide and participated in the battle after expiration of his term of service, distinguishing himself in rallying several regiments which had been thrown into confusion.\"\n\nHartranft raised a three-year regiment, the 51st Pennsylvania Infantry, and became its colonel. They first served on the North Carolina coast in the Burnside Expedition. Hartranft led them in battle at Roanoke Island and New Bern. In July 1862, Hartranft's men proceeded to Newport News, Virginia, to become part of Burnside's IX Corps, with whom they fought in the Second Battle of Bull Run and at South Mountain. They also fought at the Battle of Antietam, where Hartranft led the famous charge across Burnside's Bridge, suffering 120 casualties. They also participated in the Battle of Fredericksburg. The 51st Pennsylvania was transferred to the Western Theater, where Hartranft saw action at the battles of Vicksburg, Campbell's Station, and Knoxville; in the latter two actions, he served as commander of the 2nd Division of the IX Corps while still a colonel.\n\nHe commanded the 1st Brigade, 3rd Division, of the IX Corps in the 1864 Overland Campaign, participating in the fighting at the Wilderness and Spotsylvania. He was promoted to brigadier general as of May 12, 1864. He continued in operations against Richmond and Petersburg. His brigade distinguished itself in the Battle of Peebles' Farm.\n\nWhen the IX Corps was reorganized, Hartranft was given command of a new 3rd Division, consisting of newly raised Pennsylvania regiments. Hartranft was brevetted major general by Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant for defeating Confederate General Robert E. Lee's last offensive at the Battle of Fort Stedman. He brought his untested division from its reserve position and counterattacked to recover the captured fort.\n\nIn the aftermath of the assassination of United States President Abraham Lincoln, Hartranft was appointed both commanding officer of the Old Capitol Prison in Washington, D.C. and as a special provost marshal during the trial of those accused in the Lincoln assassination: George Atzerodt, David Herold, Lewis Paine (also known as Lewis Powell), and Mary Surratt, who would become the first woman to be executed by the U.S. government. The trial lasted from May 9, 1865 until the conviction of the Atzerodt, Herold, Paine, and Surratt in late June. At 1:15 p.m. on July 7, 1865, Hartranft led the four to the gallows in what is now called Fort Lesley McNair. When asked if the convicted had any final statements, the spiritual advisors of Atzerodt and Payne stated that both men wished to thank Hartranft and the officers and soldiers serving under him for the kindness they displayed during their incarceration. Following prayers for each of the prisoners, \"Gen. Hartranft read the order of the War Department, embracing the President's Executive Order, for the execution,\" according to \"The New York Times\". The prisoners were then simultaneously executed by hanging at 1:25 p.m.\n\nFollowing the war Hartranft switched party allegiances and became a Republican. He was appointed to serve in former general John W. Geary's Pennsylvania administration as Auditor General from 1867 to 1873.\n\nHartranft was elected as governor in 1872. He was a strong advocate of education, municipal reform, regulation of banking, improved industry and commerce, and the reorganization of the National Guard. He supported suffrage for African Americans, fought the corrupt Simon Cameron political machine, and championed the rights of the workingman.\nDuring his administration, the revision of the Commonwealth's constitution was completed and ratified as the Constitution of 1873. It prohibited special and local legislation; and increased the terms for state legislators: House terms were increased to two years instead of one, and Senate terms to four years from three.\n\nHe was the 5th commander-in-chief of the Union veterans' organization, the Grand Army of the Republic, serving from 1875 to 1877. He was also a member of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States.\n\nThe United States celebrated its centennial as a nation in 1876. Hartranft saw that Pennsylvania led the way in the celebration that was centered in Philadelphia's Fairmount Park.\n\nAt the Republican National Convention in June 1876, he was a contender for the presidential nomination, but Rutherford B. Hayes of Ohio was eventually selected. He had served with Hartranft during the Civil War in the same army corps.\n\nDuring his second term, economic depression, low wages in industry and unemployment, following the industrial boom of the early 1870s, resulted in national labor unrest and strikes culminating in the Great Railroad Strike of 1877. Serious civil disturbances included riots associated with the railroad and general strikes of 1877 in several industrial cities: including Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Reading and Scranton. There were other incidents with the Molly Maguires in the anthracite coal regions. Hartranft called out the state militia and then Regular Army troops to maintain order. In Philadelphia, Reading, and Pittsburgh, fires were set and extensive railroad facilities and equipment burned, especially in Pittsburgh. Eleven people died along the Schuylkill River before Federal troops restored the peace. Hartranft later proposed recognition of labor unions and arbitration of claims.\n\nConcerned with the governor's precedent in calling out the militia to battle civilians in Pittsburgh, the District Attorney of Allegheny County tried to force Hartranft to appear before a grand jury to explain his rationale. The courts backed Hartranft when he refused to appear. Their ruling became known as the \"Hartranft Decision.\"\n\nHartranft returned to his home in Montgomery County in 1879, where he accepted the position of US Postmaster. He was subsequently appointed as Port Collector for Philadelphia (1881-1885). He was also reappointed to command the Pennsylvania National Guard, which he had helped develop.\n\nOn August 26, 1886 Hartranft was awarded the Medal of Honor for valor during the First Battle of Bull Run in 1861.\n\nJohn Hartranft died in Norristown and was buried in Montgomery Cemetery in West Norriton Township, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, near Norristown. The Pennsylvania National Guard later provided an obelisk for his grave.\n\nHe was succeeded as commander of the Pennsylvania National Guard Division by George R. Snowden.\n\nAn equestrian statue was installed next to the Pennsylvania Capitol Building in Harrisburg honors Hartranft. Camp No. 15 of the Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War is named in his honor. Marble monuments at Petersburg and Vicksburg honor his Civil War service. An elementary school in Norristown is named for the governor as well as another elementary school in Philadelphia.\n\nThe Hartranft section of North Philadelphia, and a street in the Packer Park section of South Philadelphia near the sports complex, both in Philadelphia, were also named in his honor. A residence hall at the University Park campus of Pennsylvania State University is named after him. Three avenues in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania are named in his honor: the first is in Norristown, Pennsylvania and is the avenue leading to the cemetery in which he is buried. The other avenues are located in nearby East Norriton Township and in Fort Washington, Upper Dublin Township. A street in the Brookline section of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania is also named after him.\n\nRank and organization: Colonel, 4th Pennsylvania Militia. Place and date: At Bull Run, Va., July 21, 1861. Entered service at: Norristown, Pa. Born: December 16, 1830, New Hanover Township, Montgomery County, Pa. Date of issue: August 26, 1886.\n\nCitation:\n\nVoluntarily served as an aide and participated in the battle after expiration of his term of service, distinguishing himself in rallying several regiments which had been thrown into confusion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3736842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3736842", "title": "List of conflicts in the Americas", "text": "List of conflicts in the Americas\n\nFollowing are lists of conflicts in the Americas:\n"}
{"id": "43232150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43232150", "title": "List of events at Soldier Field", "text": "List of events at Soldier Field\n\nSoldier Field is a stadium that opened in 1924. It has primarily served as the home field of the Chicago Bears professional football club for over four decades, but it also hosted numerous other events in its more than 90 years of existence (and was not made the home to the Chicago Bears until 1971, as prior to that season the Bears played at Wrigley Field). The Bears' intent was originally to move from Wrigley Field to Northwestern's Dyche Stadium, but that move was blocked by Evanston as well as the Big Ten Conference, so they later took the City of Chicago up on their offer to move into Soldier Field where they have since played. Soldier Field has hosted a great variety and quantity of events since it opened.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNumerous celebrities were in attendance for the World Cup matches at Soldier, including Plácido Domingo during the match on June 21, as well as such dignitaries as US President Bill Clinton, German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, and Bolivian President Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada at the opening match.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNo events took place due to Soldier Field's renovation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe first day (the 12th) featured Zedd, Eric Prydz, Martin Garrix, Duke Dumont, Paul van Dyk, Andrew Rayel, Borgore, Cosmic Gate, DJ Slink, Ilan Bluestone, Mija, Myon & Shane 54, Seven Lions, Shiba San, Slander the Floozies, Thomas Jack, Tommy Trash, A Guy Called Amir, Dani Deahl, Freak Island, Jake Terra, Kite!, Louis the Child, Mario Florek, M.O.B., Peter Kontor, PT & PT, Skyler Shores, Sleepy Pilch, and The Trap House.\n\nThe second day (the 13th) featured Hardwell, Flosstradamus, Dada Life, Zomboy, Diplo (performing both solo and alongside Skrillex as they made their midwest debut as \"Jack Ü\"), Adventure Club, Brillz, Bro Safari, Dusky, Eats Everything, Figure, Grandtheft, Headhunterz, Lane 8, Morgan Page, Nicole Moudaber, Oliver Heldens, Pegboard Nerds, Sander van Doorn, Savoy, Skream, Ummet Ozcan, Alfonz Delamota, Attak, Bucky Fargo, DJ White Owl, Fatboy, Inphinity, Kalendr, Jack Trash, Porn and Chicken, RJ Pickens, Ryan B, Stratus, Teknicolor, Xonic, and Zander.\n\nThe final day (the 14th) featured Tiesto, Afrojack, Zeds Dead, Excision, Jamie Jones, Aero Chord, Audien, Boombox, Branchez, Curtis Jones (as 'Cajmere'), Derrick Carter, DVBBS, Eva Shaw, Hucci, Justin Martin, Keys N Krates, MK, Party Favor, TJR, W&W, Yellow Claw, Antics, Delusive, DJ Nurotic, Funky Mack, Goodsex, Howie Doin, Juno Moss, Light.Em.Up, Mikho, Nathan Scott, Soultech (performing alongside Gene Ferris and Dustin Sheridan), The Pool House, Xposur, and Zerogravity.\n\n\n\n\n\nList of events at Wrigley Field\n"}
{"id": "32210456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32210456", "title": "List of missing aircraft", "text": "List of missing aircraft\n\nThis is a list of missing aircraft that disappeared in flight for reasons that have never been definitely determined. According to \"Annex 13\" of the International Civil Aviation Organization, an aircraft is considered to be missing \"when the official search has been terminated and the wreckage has not been located\". This list does not include every aviator, or air passenger that has ever gone missing (See: and for extended lists on that matter).\n\n"}
{"id": "49716655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49716655", "title": "Madonna: Tears of a Clown", "text": "Madonna: Tears of a Clown\n\nMadonna: Tears of a Clown is a show by American singer Madonna, first held at the Forum Theatre in Melbourne, Australia on March 10, 2016. The singer had not included Australia during her previous five concert tours, until the Rebel Heart Tour (2015–2016), so she created the show for her Australian fans since they had waited so long for her to perform there. Madonna explained that the idea behind Tears of a Clown was to combine music and storytelling, being influenced by clowns. Tickets for the first show were made available to members of Madonna's official fan club, Icon, and were non-transferable, with the person's name printed on them.\n\nThe first show of Tears of a Clown started four hours late, with the delay being caused by Madonna rehearsing. It consisted of Madonna singing acoustic versions of her songs while dressed as a clown, interspersed with the singer telling jokes and anecdotes. Tears of a Clown received positive reviews from critics who appreciated the stripped down, confessional nature of the singer's performance and the choice of the songs and the comedy. Madonna refuted reports of her being drunk on stage, calling them false and sexist. She revived the show on December 2, 2016, performing at Miami's Faena Forum as a benefit gala, to auction memorabilia and raise money for her Raising Malawi charitable foundation. Tickets were expensive, and the auctioned items included Madonna's tour dress and wedding photographs, as well as paintings that she owned.\n\nMadonna had last toured in Australia in 1993 with The Girlie Show World Tour, her fourth concert tour. The country was skipped for the next five tours until the singer released her thirteenth studio album, \"Rebel Heart\" (2015). To promote the album, Madonna announced the Rebel Heart Tour, and confirmed that she would be coming to Australia with the concert, as well as visit New Zealand for the first time. Before arriving in Australia, Madonna announced an extra show on March 10, 2016, at Melbourne's Forum Theatre. The show was billed as an intimate gig, and was described by the singer as a fusion of music, art and comedy. It was titled as Madonna: Tears of a Clown show and was created for the singer's Australian fans, who had waited for her to perform there for the last 23 years. During her promotional appearance at \"The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon\" in April 2015, Madonna confessed that she is a \"kind of closet comedian\" and did a skit on the show; she added, \"I always do extravaganzas, they always cost a billion dollars to make ... nobody makes any money ... and sometimes I dream about simplicity.\" During the show, the singer explained her decision to do Tears of a Clown:\n\nI've had this idea in my head for this show Tears of a Clown which is a combination of music and storytelling. Because at the end of the day I do think of myself as a story teller. But it's rough as f---, so bear with me and give me all the support you can. It's from the heart. I chose to debut this work in progress, this rough rehearsal, here in Australia because I feel so bad about cancelling on you guys the last time. I'm sorry. You've been so patient, you waited for so long, I feel like I owe you a present, so this is your present... I want to make a disclaimer... If anyone thinks they came here to see a finished final show, there's the door. This is some brand spanking new shit. I don't know if you like it raw.\n\nTickets were made available to members of Madonna's official fan club, Icon, and winners with details announced at Madonna.com and through concert promoter Telstra's promotional webpage. According to newspaper reports, the tickets were non-transferable, and had the person's name printed on them. However, all of them were in the general admission category at Forum Theatre, which holds a maximum capacity of 1,500. With the production design and addition of catwalk, the space allocated became smaller than that. Prior to the show \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" reported that fans started queuing up in front of the venue, while Madonna rehearsed inside, as well as at Hisense Arena. Images and songs rehearsed were leaked to fan website Drownedmadonna.com, along with Madonna's manager Guy Oseary uploading pictures on Instagram. Madonna made several references to clowns on her own Instagram account, including uploading a short video of her riding a small tricycle. The show was confirmed to be recorded and released along with the DVD for the Rebel Heart Tour.\n\nOn the day of the show, the doors at Forum Theatre were supposed to open at 8:30pm, but since Madonna rehearsed well into the night, the show started later at midnight. The show started with Madonna appearing onstage, in a clown's costume consisting of a billowing dress, pink and yellow stalkings, riding a tricycle and circled round it. She finally reached the front of the stage and fell down from the cycle. After conversing with the audience and throwing candy at them. Madonna started singing Stephen Sondheim's \"Send in the Clowns\", written originally for the 1973 musical, \"A Little Night Music\", with images from Charlie Chaplin films displayed on the backdrop. She continued with \"Drowned World/Substitute for Love\" while standing in the center. Three songs followed with Madonna joining the band and sitting down with her guitar, including \"X-Static Process\", a cover of Elliott Smith's \"Between the Bars\", \"Nobody's Perfect\" and \"Easy Ride\". All the songs had displays showing circus themed videos; following this Madonna started singing the song \"Intervention\", while displaying an image of her son Rocco; the singer referred to her custody battle with ex-husband Guy Ritchie about Rocco.\n\nOther acoustic versions of songs followed, including \"I'm So Stupid\", \"Paradise (Not for Me)\", \"Joan of Arc\" and \"Don't Tell Me\". Before performing the next song, \"Mer Girl\", Madonna explained that once she was at her father's house and she visited the place where her mother was buried; the place, overgrown with weed, became an inspiration behind the song. Then Madonna sang an acoustic version of \"Borderline\" followed by \"Take a Bow\". The encore was an acoustic version of \"Holiday\" featuring Madonna playing the ukulele accompanied by her band and her dancers dressed as clowns.\n\nCameron Adams from News.com.au wrote: \"[Madonna] poured much of her sadness into her intimate two-hour Tears of a Clown show, peppering emotional renditions of her hits with cheeky jokes and banter.\" In another article reviewing the show, Adams noted that Tears of a Clown was \"the sort of thing you never thought you'd see a superstar do\". He complimented Madonna's jokes, chatting about her life in-between songs, for being \"raw and vulnerable\" and confessed that it was \"fascinating — and difficult — to watch. We're not used to Madonna on stage doing anything less than a fully rehearsed, slick stage show.\" Concluding the review, Adams believed that Tears of a Clown professed Madonna's touring direction into the future. Writing for \"The Independent\" Nick Levine noticed that the singer \"tested out her stand-up comedy skills with a series of risqué jokes and took the opportunity to defend her controversial fashion sense.\" Debbie Cuthbertson from \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" gave a positive review of the show, saying \"For the queen of self-control, it was an open, at times even vulnerable insight into her persona. She seemed relaxed, drinking Cosmopolitans as she spoke at length between songs.\" Cuthbertson also commended the choice of Forum Theatre as a venue believing it to be \"inspired, and her crew lit up the grand old dame in a way that showcased all her delicate charms in a way I can't recall any other act having ever done.\"\n\nLachlan Kanoniuk, music critic for \"The Guardian\", noted the \"bawdy\" jokes and anecdotes shared onstage by Madonna. He went on to describe the show as \"a weird mix of old vaudevillian-style, M15+, smut humour and bad wordplay; some jokes about clowns, sex jokes that were really quite bad but she had such great comedic delivery\". Kanoniuk also compared the show to Prince's Piano & A Microphone Tour, and complimented her singing during \"Between the Bars\", describing it as \"no costume changes, no highly synchronised dance moves, just Madonna playing an acoustic guitar and baring her soul on stage.\" Francis Gibb from \"The Times\" found Madonna's performance during \"Intervention\" as an intimate and \"naked\" moment for the singer due to the legal battle. Jon Lisi from \"PopMatters\" observed that unlike the Rebel Heart Tour, Madonna had \"something to say\" with Tears of a Clown show. However he was confused whether Madonna was being vulnerable as a clown or it was a case of the singer \"trolling us\". Citing the instance of singing \"Intervention\" for Rocco, Lisi explained that \"Of course she loves her son, but maybe this was less about her pain and more about the press’ exploitation of her pain. As the show got more intimate with each song and personal anecdote, a disturbing thought crept into my mind: what if it was meant to be a joke?\" Lisi concluded that the show had the ability \"represent a transitional point in [Madonna's] career\", although the purpose was still unclear.\n\nAfter the show ended, several media outlets reported that Madonna may have been drunk during the performance; however, Madonna blasted these reports, by responding: \"Thanks for supporting me. Too bad people don't know the art of acting and playing a character. I could never do any of my shows high or drunk. And yes underlying all of this is sexism and mysongony which proves that not only do we not get equal pay but we are still treated like heretics if we step out of line and think outside the box! Sexism is alive and kicking but i am #livingforlove.\"\n\nIn October 2016, Madonna announced plans of collaborating with Art Basel to revive the Tears of a Clown show, at a benefit gala on December 2, 2016 at Miami Beach's Faena Forum. The location was developed by Argentine hotelier and real estate developer, Alan Faena, and the show would coincide with the opening of the Forum. The concert was held along with an accompanying art auction and dinner, to benefit Madonna's Raising Malawi foundation to support their projects like Mercy James Pediatric Surgery Hospital in Malawi, as well as art and education initiatives for impoverished children in the country. Madonna herself auctioned some of her art collection, as well as never-before-seen pictures from her marriage to actor Sean Penn, photographed by Herb Ritts. Tickets were highly priced, at general admission of $5,000 with VIP meet-and-greet packages coming at $150,000. She also auctioned the flapper dress from Rebel Heart Tour, modelled by singer Ariana Grande during the show. Penn was present in the audience and bid on several items, and at one point handcuffed Madonna and crawled through her legs for generating a higher bid.\n\nMadonna was aided by her son David Banda, who was adopted by the singer from Malawi; Banda introduced Madonna and told the audience who bought the tickets about how \"lucky\" he was. The Tears of a Clown show was over an hour long, with Madonna giving her opinions on the 2016 United States Presidential Election, panning President elect Donald Trump. One of the new songs included in the set list was Britney Spears' \"Toxic\" (2004), which Madonna sang slowly, as images of Trump were displayed in video backdrops. The singer also spoke about the turmoils of the Native Americans and the Dakota Access Pipeline protests, and then sang \"American Life\" (2003). Other songs performed included \"Express Yourself\" (1989), \"Beautiful Stranger\" (1999) and \"Don't Tell Me\" (2000). During \"Holiday\", one fan got the chance to hold Madonna's microphone as she played the ukulele and sang, as well as another fan donating $150,000 in exchange for kissing the singer. In total, Madonna raised about US$7.3 million from her own items. The Associated Press reported that \"[the] night was punctuated by [Madonna's] sardonic humor, corny clown jokes, controversial political statements and heartfelt moments about how much the hospital project means to her.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "44877846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44877846", "title": "Miss Chad", "text": "Miss Chad\n\nMiss Chad (or \"Miss TCHAD\") is a national beauty pageant in Chad. The pageant runs to select its winner to the Miss World. The Miss Tchad is sponsored by Ministry of Culture, Chad since 2014.\n"}
{"id": "40712418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40712418", "title": "NEWS (Austrian magazine)", "text": "NEWS (Austrian magazine)\n\nNEWS is an Austrian weekly news magazine published in German and based in Vienna, Austria. The weekly is the major news magazine in the country.\n\n\"NEWS\" magazine was established by Helmut and Wolfgang Fellner and was first published in October 1992. The Verlagsgruppe NEWS was the publisher of the magazine which is published weekly. The Fellner brothers sold the magazine to Gruner + Jahr, a subsidiary of Bertelsmann.\n\n\"NEWS\" covers entertainment and life style topics as well as news on current affairs, politics and culture.\n\nIn the 1990s Senta Ziegler served as the editor-in-chief of the magazine. Until 2008 Andreas Weber was the editor-in-chief of the weekly. Then Atha Athanasiadis served as the editor-in-chief of the \"NEWS\" magazine from 2008 to February 2010. The editor-in-chief of the magazine is Peter Pelinka who was appointed to the post in February 2010. Corinna Milborn and Silvia Meister are the deputy editors of the weekly.\n\nThe 1993 circulation of \"NEWS\" was more than 200,000 copies. The market share of the magazine was 19.3% in 2000. The magazine had a circulation of 254,000 copies in 2003. Its readership in 2005 was about 14%, making it the first in its category. In 2007 the magazine had a circulation of 285,000 copies.\n\nFor the first half of 2008 the magazine had a circulation of 125,710 copies. It was the third best-selling magazine in the country in 2008. The circulation of the magazine was 215,000 copies in 2010. The 2012 circulation of the magazine was 125.751 copies and it was 135,875 copies in the first half of 2013.\n\nIn June 2005, \"NEWS\" was fined by an Austrian court following its publication of then Finance Minister Karl Heinz Grasser's photos kissing Fiona Swarovski, an heiress of the Swarovski crystal dynasty.\n\nList of magazines in Austria\n\n"}
{"id": "16993237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16993237", "title": "National Air Race Museum", "text": "National Air Race Museum\n\nThe National Air Race Museum (NARM) was a short-lived (1993-1994) aviation museum featuring the Golden Age of Racing and the Reno Air Races, located in Sparks, Nevada. Aircraft exhibited included an original, non-flying replica of Hughes H-1 Racer.\n\n\nArtifacts on display included a pair of leather gloves left behind by Charles Lindbergh in 1927 when he flew into Blanchard Field, Reno's Original Airport.\n\nThe National Automobile Museum would rotate vintage vehicles through to complement antique hot air balloon display.\n\nNARM Visitors were beneficiaries of exchange programs with a number of Museums including the National Air and Space Museum.\n\nThe museum included an Aviation Art Gallery, Gift Shop and \"Fuselage Theater\" built with commercial airliner interior for screening of movies.\n\nMany of the air racers and the Bf 109G were on loan from the Air Museum in Chino, California. The Bf 109G was last seen, a few years ago, in the Planes of Fame satellite museum near the Grand Canyon at Valle Airport in Valle-Williams, Arizona, along with a letter from General Jimmy Doolittle's son informing NARM that Jimmy had become ill and was unable to attend NARM's Grand Opening.\n\nAs of May 10, 2008 many of the other racers and replicas are in a hangar at the Main Planes of Fame Museum in Chino. Ed Maloney, President of the Air Museum, says the air racers will soon be featured in an air racing display. The non-flying replica of the Hughes H-1 Racer is currently in storage.\n\nOpened in May 1993, NARM closed in February, 1994. Over 20,000 visitors came through in less than a year of operation. A learning center including Flight School for Kids at Risk and any other children who wanted to learn more about flying was under development at time of closure.\n\nThe Planes of Fame Museum briefly reopened NARM in September, 1994, before removing all contents of NARM which have been relocated to Chino and Valle-Williams.\n"}
{"id": "58889539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58889539", "title": "October Revolution Day", "text": "October Revolution Day\n\nOctober Revolution Day (officially Day of the Great October Socialist Revolution, ) was a public holiday in the Soviet Union, officially observed on November 7 from 1927 to 1990.\n\nFor Soviet families, it was a holiday tradition to partake in a shared morning meal, and to watch the October Revolution Parade broadcast on television.\n\nA holiday canon was established during the Stalinist period, and included a workers' demonstration, the appearance of leaders on the podium of the Mausoleum, and, finally, the military parade on Red Square, which was held unfailingly every year, most famously in 1941, as the Axis forces were advancing on Moscow.\n\nOctober Revolution Day, which had been the main holiday of the year during the Stalinist period, gradually lost importance in the 1970s, falling behind the Victory Day and New Year celebrations.\n\nIn Kyrgyzstan, the holiday was observed until 2017, when it was replaced by the 'Days of Ancestral History and Memory' on November 7 and 8.\n\nAs of 2018, October Revolution Day remains an official holiday in Belarus, though the original significance has faded and it is simply regarded as a day off. Similarly, in the unrecognized Transnistrian Republic, the day is officially a public holiday, but it is regarded by locals as devoid of its original meaning.\n\nIn Russia, the holiday was repurposed several times. In 1995, President Yeltsin reestablished a November 7 holiday to commemorate the liberation of Moscow from the Polish army in 1612. The next year, it was renamed 'Day of Accord and Reconciliation'. From 2004, November 7 became one of several Days of Military Honour and ceased to be a day off.\n\n"}
{"id": "18288918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18288918", "title": "Palmer R. Chitester Fund", "text": "Palmer R. Chitester Fund\n\nThe Palmer R. Chitester Fund is now Free To Choose Network, a libertarian-leaning Pennsylvania nonprofit corporation based in Erie, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Network has three main initiatives:\nThe Palmer R. Chitester Fund ( Free To Choose Network) was founded by Bob Chitester, using start-up money provided by a number of charitable sources and named in honor of his father. At the time, Bob Chitester was the general manager of two public broadcasters in Erie, Pennsylvania: the PBS channel WQLN-TV and the NPR station WQLN-FM.\n\nThe origins of the foundation lay in PBS's broadcast of \"The Age of Uncertainty\" (1975), a 13-part BBC series produced by liberal economist John Kenneth Galbraith. The chairman of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting was a classical liberal economist, W. Allen Wallis, who had met Chitester in 1975 when he participated in a symposium on \"Technology and Society\" arranged by Chitester in Erie and learned that Chitester shared his classical liberal economic views. Wallis and Chitester both believed that PBS should produce a classical liberal response to \"The Age of Uncertainty\". Wallis therefore introduced Chitester to his old friend Milton Friedman in early 1977 (shortly after Friedman won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences). As a result, Chitester raised the necessary funding and Executive Produced a 10-part PBS series entitled \"Free to Choose\", which first aired in early 1980. Friedman also co-authored a book with his wife Rose Friedman that was based on the television series. This book spent 5 weeks at the top of the \"New York Times\" Non-Fiction Best Sellers List in 1980.\n\nIt was in the context of producing the \"Free to Choose\" series that Chitester first organized Amagin, Inc., which became the Palmer R. Chitester Fund, which became Free To Choose Network. Under the trademark Free To Choose Media it continues to produce media describing classical liberal economic ideas to a mass audience. Beginning in 1999, the Palmer R. Chitester Fund, was licensed by ABC News to distribute John Stossel TV specials under the brand \"Stossel in the Classroom\". The license was cancelled in 2004.\n\nFree To Choose Media has produced a number of programs for public TV including: a biography of Milton Friedman, entitled \"The Power of Choice -\" \"The Ultimate Resource\" (named after the 1981 book \"The Ultimate Resource\" by Julian Lincoln Simon) -\"Turmoil and Triumph\" a biography of George Shultz - \"The Power of the Poor,\" hosted by Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto - \"India Rising\", hosted by Swedish scholar Johan Norberg - \"The Real Adam Smith, hosted by Johan Norberg.\" \n\nThe organization currently known as izzit.org was initially called In the Classroom Media. Izzit.org provides teachers with materials on current events and other topics for in-classroom use. Izzit.org has used celebrities (e.g. Drew Carey) in some of its productions.\n\nThe Idea Channel no longer markets the documentaries produced by Free To Choose Media. Much of the Palmer R. Chitester Fund archival footage now appears on YouTube.\n\n"}
{"id": "12483441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12483441", "title": "Romanian occupation of Pokuttya", "text": "Romanian occupation of Pokuttya\n\nThe Romanian occupation of Pokuttya took place in early 1919, when, as a result of alliances concluded between Romania and Poland, the former entered the southeastern corner of the former Austro-Hungarian ruled province of Galicia. During the interwar period, Romania was Poland's main ally in Eastern Europe (\"see Polish-Romanian Alliance\"). Both nations were bound by several treaties and history of this alliance dates back to the end of World War I and the Treaty of Versailles. However, to actively cooperate, governments in Bucharest and Warsaw emphasized the necessity of a shared border. Discussions about the border started in Paris some time at the beginning of 1919 and continued during the following months.\n\nThe proposal for occupation was first advanced by the Romanian government of Ion I. C. Brătianu on May 8, 1919. Brătianu suggested this as a means to separate both Czechoslovakia and Hungary from Soviet influences, thus consolidating the position of both Greater Romania and the Second Polish Republic, as well as help the Poles get in touch with their Romanian ally.\n\nThe proposal was accepted by the Polish leader, Marshal Józef Piłsudski and on May 24, 1919, the Romanian Army 7. Infantry Division, led by General Iacob Zadik, entered Pokuttya. After three days, the Romanians met the Poles in the area of Kalusz. As Polish Army was involved in other conflicts (chiefly with the Soviets), the Romanians stayed in Pokuttya until late August 1919. Their units were stationed in such towns as Ivano-Frankivsk, and Kolomyia. In late summer of 1919 Polish troops entered Pokuttya (\"see Polish-Ukrainian War\") and the Romanians withdrew to their country.\n\nAlso, the mutual cooperation resulted in Romanian permit for the free passage of the 4th Riflemen Division (under General Lucjan Żeligowski). This unit was kept in Romanian province of Bukovina for political purposes, and on June 17, 1919 the Romanians allowed it to enter Poland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37781785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37781785", "title": "Samyak", "text": "Samyak\n\nSamyak (Devanagari: सम्यक) is an almsgiving Buddhist festival celebrated in the Kathmandu Valley in Nepal. During the ceremony which is held on a large open ground, hundreds of images of Dīpankara Buddha are assembled, and gifts of different types of food are made to the deities and the Buddhist community. \n\nSamyak is the most spectacular Newar Buddhist celebration. It is observed at different intervals in the three cities of the valley -- every 12 years in Kathmandu, every five years in Lalitpur and annually in Bhaktapur. The first documented Samyak festival in Kathmandu took place in 1015 AD (135 Nepal Era).\n\nThe festival brings together a wide cross-section of Newar society, including priests, artisans, traders, musicians and farmers. Each group has a defined role designed to highlight social harmony. The ceremony celebrates the practice of giving to the Buddhas and monks in the Newar Buddhist tradition. The Samyak festival in Kathmandu is held at Kathmandu Durbar Square and the field of Bhuikhel at the foot of Swayambhu hill.\n\nOn the first day, large images of Dipankar Buddha are brought out of sacred courtyards and private homes and displayed at Durbar Square in a row to receive offerings from devotees. \n\nOn the second day, the statues are carried in procession to Bhuikhel and assembled on the field. Priests receive alms consisting of different kinds of sacred foods in a ceremony held in the presence of the king.\n\nThe offerings are made by members of the Uray caste group. Each subgroup performs a task that has been assigned by tradition. \n\n\nMisā Samyak, which means Women's Samyak, is held on the third day. The image of Goddess Ajimā Dyah is brought down from her shrine at Swayambhu for the ceremony.\n\nThe regular Samyak ceremony is held at intervals of 12 years. However, a special one can be called between the scheduled occurrences by a sponsor. The most recent one took place in 2005. \n\nIn Lalitpur, the Samyak festival is held at Nagbahal. The latest one occurred in 2012.\n\nIn Bhaktapur, Samyak is celebrated annually on the feast day of Ghyah Chāku Sanlhu (Maghe Sankranti) which usually falls on January 15. \n"}
{"id": "57508574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57508574", "title": "Sankat Mochan Sangeet Samaroh", "text": "Sankat Mochan Sangeet Samaroh\n\nSankat Mochan Sangeet Samaroh is an annual music festival held at the Sankat Mochan Hanuman Temple in Varanasi, India. It features performances in Indian classical music and dance. The festival is noted for allowing free entry to audiences, and for performers not charging any fees. It is scheduled every year to coincide with the Hindu religious festival of Hanuman Jayanti that celebrates the birth of Hanuman, the presiding deity at the temple.\n"}
{"id": "5930936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5930936", "title": "Shabash Bangladesh", "text": "Shabash Bangladesh\n\nShabash Bangladesh (Bravo Bangladesh) () is a sculpture in Bangladesh. It is located at Rajshahi University premises. Shabash Bangladesh is another state of the art sculpture created to pay tribute to those killed in the Liberation War of Bangladesh.\n\nNitun Kundu is the sculptor of Shabash Bangladesh. The name of the sculpture comes from a poem named \"Durmor\" by Sukanta Bhattacharya. The last four lines of which is engraved under the structure:\nTranslation : \n"}
{"id": "13767180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13767180", "title": "Skimming (casinos)", "text": "Skimming (casinos)\n\nSkimming refers to the illegal transfer of funds from casinos to outside personnel without official documentation. Skimmed money is usually transferred in cash to evade taxes and to fund organized crime anonymously. The quantities of money skimmed are usually small portions of the casino's total profit so as not to arouse suspicion from regulators or law enforcement.\n\n\"In May of 1963...the FBI turned over to the Justice Department a two-volume document called \"The Skimming Report,\" which detailed the illegal siphoning off of gambling profits by Las Vegas casinos to avoid taxes.\" The report documented how pre-tax profits from casinos were being routed to various organized crime syndicates across the nation. No one could be prosecuted as the FBI obtained its information by illegally bugging casino money rooms. The money rooms are where the cash from the betting floor is counted and recorded on the casino's books.\n\nSkimming by diverting pre-tax profits is just one of many possible methods. In casinos the patron is betting against the house, so the house has an incentive to fix the games (cards, roulette, slots, etc.). In pari-mutuels (horse and dog track, jai alai) the house instead gets a fixed percentage of the total amount bet, so is theoretically less likely to fix the games. However, pari-mutuels use sophisticated computer systems to handle customer bets and a major scandal involving Autotote, a major supplier of these systems, has been exposed.\n\nOther methods of skimming, such as arranging for particular employees of organized crime to be allowed to win in rigged games, were sometimes used.\n"}
{"id": "43730972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43730972", "title": "Sons of Liberty (miniseries)", "text": "Sons of Liberty (miniseries)\n\nSons of Liberty is an American television miniseries dramatizing the early American Revolution events in Boston, Massachusetts, the start of the Revolutionary War, and the negotiations of the Second Continental Congress which resulted in the drafting and signing of the 1776 United States Declaration of Independence in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Directed by Kari Skogland, the three-part miniseries premiered on History on January 25, 2015. The series' theme music was composed by Hans Zimmer.\n\nThe miniseries centers primarily on the years (1765-1776) prior to start of the American Revolutionary War, and focuses on historical figures and pivotal events between the (then) British Colonies and the mother country of Great Britain to whom then British America owed its allegiance, particularly the events that led to resistance to the crown and creation of the Sons of Liberty, a group that coalesced to resist & disrupt attempts by the British Parliament and crown to tax and govern the colonies.\n\nThe actions of the Sons of Liberty were the first beginnings of what would eventually become the American or Continental Army. These take place mostly in and around Boston & the then colony of Massachusetts.\n\nVarious American Revolutionary figures such as Samuel Adams, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Hancock, Paul Revere, George Washington and British General Thomas Gage are central characters in various episodes.\n\nAdditionally, creation of the Colonial Congress, the Declaration of Independence and the eventual outbreak of the Revolutionary War are depicted.\n\nTagline: (during the teaser trailer) \n\n\nAccording to \"The Hollywood Reporter\", production on \"Sons of Liberty\" began in the summer of 2014. The miniseries was also going to feature the minor story lines of Benedict Arnold and Patrick Henry.\n\nThe first teaser trailer was released on September 1, 2014, during \"Houdini\", which incorrectly revealed a December 2014 release date and featured The Rolling Stones' \"Paint It Black\".\n\nIn Australia, \"Sons of Liberty\" aired on SBS One from February 5, 2015 as a six-part series.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Sons of Liberty\" aired on History Channel from June 2, 2015, also as a six-part series.\n\n\"Sons of Liberty\" was released on DVD and Blu-ray on May 26, 2015.\n\nThe History Channel billed the series as a \"dramatic interpretation of events\" and a work of \"historical fiction\", arguing the goal of the miniseries was \"to capture the spirit of the time, convey the personalities of the main characters, and focus on real events that have shaped our past\". Nevertheless, the series has attracted criticism for its historical inaccuracies.\n\n"}
{"id": "39112292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39112292", "title": "Speed Energy Formula Off-Road", "text": "Speed Energy Formula Off-Road\n\nThe Speed Energy Formula Off-Road presented by Traxxas (popularly known as the Stadium Super Trucks) is an American off-road racing series. The series was formed by former IndyCar and NASCAR driver Robby Gordon in 2013. Sanctioned by the United States Auto Club (USAC), the Trucks originally competed primarily in American football stadiums, but in 2014 began racing mostly on street circuits.\n\nBy 2011, there was speculation that after his NASCAR career was over, Robby Gordon would bring back the concept of stadium off-road racing that Mickey Thompson had invented. Gordon announced the formation of the Stadium Super Trucks (SST) in 2012, modeling the series after Thompson's MTEG stadium series; early in his career, Gordon had won the 1989 MTEG championship as a 20-year-old. The Stadium Super Trucks held an exhibition race at Crandon International Off-Road Raceway after the conclusion of the World Championship races on September 2, 2012.\n\nThe Stadium Super Trucks began with a twelve-race season in 2013. The series held their first official race at the University of Phoenix Stadium on April 6, 2013. The race was won by Rob MacCachren, Justin Matney finished second, and Gordon passed the flipped-over truck of P. J. Jones on the final lap for third. Gordon and MacCachren battled throughout the 2013 season, and Gordon won the championship by seven points. As support events, the series scheduled monster trucks, quad bikes and Side by Side UTVs.\nOn December 11, 2013, Gordon announced that the series will be among the events held at the X Games Austin in 2014. On March 4, 2014, the series was rebranded as the \"Speed Energy Formula Off-Road Presented By Traxxas\". The series' X Games final was held at Circuit of the Americas on June 8. Apdaly Lopez won the gold medal; Sheldon Creed and Gordon earned silver and bronze, respectively.\n\nOn September 23, 2014, sponsorship marketing company Elevation Group purchased a 40 percent stake in the series. In 2015, the series entered a partnership with all-terrain vehicle manufacturer Arctic Cat, which led to the creation of the Arctic Cat Stadium Side-by-Side (SXS) Racing Series as a support series to the SST.\n\nIn late 2014 and into 2015, the series expanded outside the United States and Canada, starting with the 2014 Race of Champions in Barbados. With the support of driver Craig Dontas and former Adelaide 500 general manager Nathan Cayzer, Formula Off-Road expanded into Australia for the 2015 season. In May, the trucks were invited to the Goodwood Festival of Speed in England.\n\nFormula Off-Road returned to stadiums in December 2017 with the inaugural Stadium Super Trucks World Championship Finals in California's Lake Elsinore Diamond baseball park. Although he did not compete for the weekend, Paul Morris clinched the 2017 championship with Jerret Brooks driving his No. 67 truck.\n\nIn May 2018, Gordon formed a three-year partnership with Boost Mobile to keep the series in Australia beyond the 2019. As part of the agreement, the series' Australian operations were handled by Cayzer and Morris' Paul Morris Motorsport. However, in September, the Confederation of Australian Motor Sport (CAMS) revoked their licence over safety concerns, a decision particularly spurned by an incident in the May race at Barbagallo Raceway in which Matt Nolan's truck's wheel came off during a wreck and hit a spectator bridge.\n\nA court hearing overseen by the Supreme Court of Victoria took place a month later. The series' defense, led by Queen's Counsel barrister Stewart Anderson, said new wheels would be built with forged billet aluminium that makes them heavier and less likely to detach than the current cast alloy. Retired Supercar driver Larry Perkins also gave his support after inspecting them earlier in the year, comparing the trucks' safety to the Supercars. Anderson further stated CAMS and SST had formed an agreement in February in which the former expressed satisfaction at the series, yet CAMS made the decision to suspend the series in May and did not inform SST officials until July, which Gordon stated was a breach of contract. On October 11, judge John Digby ruled in favor of CAMS.\n\nSix days after the ruling, the series aligned with the Australian Auto Sport Alliance's Australian Motor Racing Series (AMRS) to remain in the country. The AASA, which is not affiliated with CAMS, and the NSW Sport and Recreation approved Formula Off-Road for competition in AMRS events following a risk assessment. The trucks' first race weekend under the AMRS banner took place nine days later at the Sydney Motorsport Park.\n\nTo close out the 2018 season, the series organized the Robby Gordon Off-Road World Championships at Glen Helen Raceway from November 30 to December 2.\n\nThe series typically featured racers who have competed in off-road events; in the inaugural race, off-road racers included Robby Gordon, Championship Off-Road Racing driver Rob MacCachren, driver Sheldon Creed and motocross rider Jeff Ward. The 2013 season also featured drivers from other disciplines, like Arie Luyendyk Jr. and Paul Tracy (IndyCar), Nick Baumgartner (Olympic snowboarding) and Traxxas owner Mike Jenkins. Other drivers who have competed in the series include Moto X biker Jeremy Stenberg and four-time AMA Supercross Championship winner Ryan Villopoto.\n\nLike Gordon, other NASCAR drivers have competed in the series. At X Games Austin 2015, among the NASCAR competitors were 1989 NASCAR Winston Cup Series champion Rusty Wallace, road course ringer Boris Said and former Nationwide Series driver and eleven-time X Games medalist Travis Pastrana. P. J. Jones also made starts for Gordon's Robby Gordon Motorsports team in NASCAR, while Justin Lofton raced in NASCAR with Speed Energy sponsorship. In December 2017, Xfinity Series driver Casey Mears, the son of off-road and stadium truck racer Roger Mears, made his Formula Off-Road debut at Lake Elsinore.\n\nIn 2016, Sara Price became the first female driver in series history when she made her debut at Toronto.\n\nDuring its inaugural season, the series raced predominantly in stadiums filled with dirt like the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, while also running on street circuits as a supporting event for the IndyCar Series. Eventually, the series focused almost exclusively on street courses. \"Before you know it, we're doing 10 street races instead of stadiums and dirt races, which brings it to a completely different fan audience,\" Gordon stated. On the street courses, aluminum ramps are placed on the track; the ramps are 17 feet, 6 inches long and 2'8\" high, and trucks enter them at speeds of .\n\nThe series eventually began an expansion into Australia, which began in 2015 with races at the Adelaide Street Circuit in Australia as a support event for the V8 Supercars' Adelaide 500. Further Australian events were held at the Surfers Paradise Street Circuit as a support race for the Gold Coast 600, at the Valvoline Raceway for the Ultimate Sprintcar Championship and at the Homebush Street Circuit for the Sydney 500.\n\nIn 2017, Formula Off-Road ran at Barbagallo Raceway as an undercard for the Perth SuperSprint, marking the first time the series raced on a permanent circuit. In June, the series made its debut on an oval track at the Texas Motor Speedway, running as a support event for IndyCar's Rainguard Water Sealers 600. Later in the month, the series raced at the Hidden Valley Raceway in Australia's Darwin as part of the Supercars' Darwin Triple Crown weekend. On July 29, the series partnered with Monster Jam to race at Beijing National Stadium in China, the first Chinese-based event for Formula Off-Road. Two months later, the series raced at Watkins Glen International as a support event for IndyCar's Grand Prix at The Glen; instead of the layout used by IndyCar, the trucks raced on the course. The Glen was removed for the 2018 IndyCar Series season, and Formula Off-Road instead announced plans to join the series at Road America; for the event, the trucks raced on a shortened course that bypasses turns 6 to 12. For the final laps of the Road America race, however, the drivers raced through the entire course.\n\nPowered by a 600-hp Chevrolet LS V8 engine, the trucks weigh and are built with a steel-tube frame and fiberglass body. The trucks are 13'5\" long and 5'2\" high, feature a three-speed transmission and can reach speeds as high as . A portion of the frame protects the driver from rolls. The truck's high center of mass and soft suspension makes the vehicle prone to rolling. Next to the driver is a jug that catches fluids which may have spilled from damage that the truck sustains. Each truck has Department of Transportation-approved Toyo Tires.\n\nIn 2012, Gordon ended his NASCAR career, believing the top teams had a large advantage over the smaller teams due to the amount of money spent. As a result, Gordon wanted the Stadium Super Trucks to be a \"drivers' series\"; with this philosophy, all trucks are identical to each other, though drivers are allowed to change some aspects of their trucks, such as the spring rates, ride heights and camber.\n\nThe 2013 SST events were televised tape-delayed on NBC and NBC Sports Network; seven were televised on NBC and five on NBC Sports Network. Most of the twelve races in 2013 were televised on Sunday afternoons. In 2014, NBCSN returned to broadcast the season's races, but was later replaced by CBS Sports Network in September. The X Games events were aired nationally on ABC.\n\nAs of the 2017 season, races are streamed live on the series' website and Facebook page. When the series raced in Australia, viewers in the country and New Zealand were prohibited from watching online and instead watched on Fox Sports.\n\n\"Source:\" \n\n Jerret Brooks drove the No. 67 truck at Lake Elsinore, with all points going to Morris\n\n"}
{"id": "41787889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41787889", "title": "Stimulus-triggered acquisition of pluripotency", "text": "Stimulus-triggered acquisition of pluripotency\n\nStimulus-triggered acquisition of pluripotency (also known as STAP) was a proposed method of generating pluripotent stem cells by subjecting ordinary cells to certain types of stress, such as the application of a bacterial toxin, submersion in a weak acid, or physical trauma. The technique gained prominence in January 2014 when research by Haruko Obokata et al. was published in \"Nature\". Over the following months, all scientists who tried to duplicate her results failed, and suspicion arose that Obokata's results were due to error or fraud. An investigation by her employer, RIKEN, was launched. On 1 April 2014, RIKEN concluded that Obokata had falsified data to obtain her results. On 4 June 2014, Obokata agreed to retract the papers. On August 5, 2014, Yoshiki Sasai—Obokata's supervisor at RIKEN and one of the coauthors on the STAP cell papers—was found dead at a RIKEN facility after an apparent suicide by hanging.\n\nSTAP would have been a radically simpler method of stem cell generation than previously researched methods as it requires neither nuclear transfer nor the introduction of transcription factors.\n\nHaruko Obokata claimed that STAP cells were produced by exposing CD45 murine spleen cells to certain stresses including an acidic medium with a pH of 5.7 for half an hour. Following this treatment, the cells were verified to be pluripotent by observing increasing levels of Oct-4 (a transcription factor expressed in embryonic stem cells) over the following week using an Oct4-GFP transgene. On average only 25% of cells survived the acid treatment, but over 50% of those that survived converted to Oct4-GFPCD45 pluripotent cells. The researchers also claimed that treatment with bacterial toxins or physical stress were conducive to the acquisition of pluripotent markers. STAP cells injected into mouse embryos grew into a variety of tissues and organs found throughout the body. According to the researchers, the chimaeric mice \"[appeared] to be healthy, fertile, and normal\" after one-to-two years of observation. Additionally, these mice produced healthy offspring, thereby demonstrating germline transmission which is \"a strict criterion for pluripotency as well as genetic and epigenetic normality.\"\n\nSTAP cells were supposedly able to differentiate into placental cells, meaning they would be more potent than embryonic stem cells or induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS). It was not clear why ordinary cells do not convert into stem cells when subjected to similar stimuli under ordinary conditions, such as acidity in the body; Obokata et al. suggested that \"in vivo\" inhibitory mechanisms may block conversion to pluripotency. Research is underway to generate stimulus-triggered acquisition of pluripotency (STAP) cells using human tissue: in February 2014, Charles Vacanti and Koji Kojima (Harvard researchers originally involved in the discovery and publication of STAP) claimed to have preliminary results of STAP cells generated from human fibroblasts, but concomitantly cautioned that these preliminary results require further analysis and validation.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Charles Vacanti and Martin Vacanti conducted studies that led them to the idea that stem cells - spore-like cells - could be spontaneously recovered from ordinary tissues that are stressed via mechanical injury or increased acidity.\n\nThe technique for producing STAP cells was subsequently studied by Obokata at the Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH), while she was studying as a post doc under Charles Vacanti, and then at the RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology in Japan. In 2008, while working at Harvard Medical School, she verified at the request of Charles Vacanti that some of the cultured cells she was working with shrank to the size of stem cells after being mechanically injured in a capillary tube. She went on as directed, to test the effects of various stimuli on cells. After modifying the technique, Obokata was able to show that white blood cells from newborn mice could be transformed into cells that behaved much like stem cells. She repeated the experiment with other cell types including brain, skin, and muscle cells with the same result.\n\nInitially Obokata's findings were met with skepticism, even among her coworkers. \"Everyone said it was an artefact – there were some really hard days\", she recalled. The manuscript describing the work was rejected multiple times before its eventual publication as an article (together with a shorter jointly-written \"letter\") within the journal \"Nature\". A series of experiments, first turning a mouse embryo green by fluorescently tagging STAP cells, then videotaping the transformation of T-cells into pluripotent cells, finally convinced skeptics that the results were real.\n\nIn the months after the two \"Nature\" papers were released, all scientists who tried to duplicate Obokata's results failed and suspicion arose that her results were due to error or fraud. An investigation into alleged irregularities was launched by RIKEN on 15 February 2014. The allegations questioned the use of seemingly duplicated images in the papers, and reported failure to reproduce her results in other prominent stem-cell laboratories. \"Nature\" also announced that they were investigating. Several stem-cell scientists defended Obokata or reserved their opinion while the investigation was ongoing. To address the problem of reproducibility in other laboratories, Obokata published some technical 'tips' on the protocols on 5 March while promising that the detailed procedure would be published in due course.\n\nOn 11 March, Teruhiko Wakayama, one of Obokata's coauthors, urged all the researchers involved to withdraw the articles, citing many \"questionable points\". Charles Vacanti said he opposed their retraction and posted a \"revised protocol\" for creating STAP cells on his own website, which was taken down after he resigned his BWH post.\n\nOn 14 March, RIKEN released an interim report of the investigation. Out of the six items being investigated, the committee concluded that there was inappropriate handling of data on two items, but did not judge the mishandling as research misconduct. On 1 April, RIKEN concluded that Obokata had engaged in \"research misconduct\", falsifying data on two occasions. The co-authors were cleared of misconduct, but bore \"grave responsibility\" for not verifying the data themselves. RIKEN also announced that an internal group had been established to verify whether the ‘stimulus-triggered acquisition of pluripotency’ is reproducible. Obokata maintained her innocence and said she would appeal the decision. On 4 June 2014, Obokata agreed to retract both the article and the \"letter\". The article was officially retracted on 2 July 2014. An article analyzing the controversy concluded that while issues of image manipulation, duplication and plagiarism were potentially detectable, the reviewers could not have concluded that the article was the product of academic misconduct prior to acceptance.\n\nIn the wake of the controversy, observers, journalists, and former members of RIKEN have stated that the organization is riddled with unprofessional and inadequate scientific rigor and consistency, and that this is reflective of serious issues with scientific research in Japan in general.\n\nRIKEN commissioned a team of scientists to attempt to verify Obokata's original results and asked Obokata to participate in the effort. On 5 August 2014, Obokata's supervisor and co-author of the original paper, Yoshiki Sasai, was discovered dead by apparent suicide by hanging in a building at the RIKEN facility in Kobe, Japan. On 24 September 2015, the RIKEN scientists reported that Obokata's STAP cells came from embryonic stem cell contamination, while on the same day, research groups who had attempted to reproduce the STAP protocol jointly reported that they had found it irreproducible.\n\nIf the findings had proven to be valid, stimulus-triggered pluripotency cells could have been generated more easily and efficiently than by existing iPS techniques. And adapted to human tissue, the technique could have led to cheap and simple procedures to create patient-specific stem cells. Stem-cell researcher Dusko Ilic of King's College London called STAP cells \"a major scientific discovery that will be opening a new era in stem-cell biology\". Shinya Yamanaka, a pioneer of iPS research, called the findings \"important to understand nuclear reprogramming ... [and] a new approach to generate iPS-like cells\". The idea that STAP cells can form placental tissue meant they could have made cloning considerably easier by bypassing the need for a donor egg and \"in vitro\" cultivation.\n\nOne previous way of creating stem cells has been via genetic manipulation of adult cells into iPS cells. Progress on iPS-based therapies has been slow due to regulatory hurdles surrounding genetic manipulation. Additionally, iPS techniques have an observed efficiency of around 1%, significantly lower than the claimed efficiency of STAP.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5492051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5492051", "title": "Tea dance", "text": "Tea dance\n\nA tea dance, also called a thé dansant (French for \"dancing tea\"), was historically a dance held on a summer or autumn afternoon or early evening, from 4 to 7 p.m. In the English countryside, a garden party sometimes preceded the dance. The function evolved from the concept of the afternoon tea, and J. Pettigrew traces its origin to the French colonization of Morocco.\n\nBooks on Victorian-era etiquette, such as \"Party-giving on Every Scale\" (London, n.d. [1880]), included detailed instructions for hosting such gatherings. By 1880, it was noted that \"[a]fternoon dances are seldom given in London, but are a popular form of entertainment in the suburbs, in garrison-towns, watering-places, etc.\" Tea dances were given by Royal Navy officers aboard ships at various naval stations, the expenses shared by the captain and officers, as they were shared by colonels and officers at barrack dances in mess rooms ashore.\n\nThe usual refreshments in 1880 were tea and coffee, ices, champagne-cup and claret-cup, fruit, sandwiches, cake and biscuits. Even after the introduction of the phonograph, the expected feature was a live orchestra – often referred to as a palm court orchestra – or a small band playing light classical music. The types of dances performed during tea dances included waltzes, tangos and, by the late 1920s, the Charleston.\n\nThe expenses of a seated supper, wine, and candles associated with a ball were obviated by the tea dance. A stiff waxed canvas dancing cloth strained over the drawing-room carpet was considered sufficient, rather than taking up the carpet and waxing the floor in preparation for dancing. The dining room served as the tea-room, with the dining-tables arranged at one end as a buffet. For the older generation, a tea dance was a reception akin to an \"at home\". Floral decorations were modest.\n\nFour World Record Tea Dances have been held in the early 21st century. In Glasgow in December 2008, some 408 dancers gained the record during the city's Winterfest celebrations. The programme of music for the event was provided by the Scottish swing dance band That Swing Sensation, with dance hosts the Fly Right Dance Company. The previous record was set in 2005 by a total of 195 couples, who danced in London's Trafalgar Square.\n\nSubsequently, the Royal Opera House in London held a World Record attempt on 8 July 2010 in Trafalgar Square, with the unofficial total being 507 dancers.\n\nHot on the heels of the London event, Glasgow's George Square was the venue for the current official record, set on 12 September 2010, with 4,000 dancers.\n\nTea dances are a common cultural reference in early 20th-century British and American fiction as a staple of genteel society, where people normally attend these receptions while visiting resort towns, especially coastal ones such as Brighton, the Hamptons, Provincetown, or Ogunquit. The 1925 hit Broadway musical, \"No, No, Nanette,\" features a tea dance as the occasion for the plot's climax: the main characters travel to Atlantic City (the same musical also features the famous song \"Tea for Two,\" which is sung prior to this scene).\n\nIn the United States, since the late 20th century, the term has been broadened to refer to any casual afternoon dance event. During an afternoon dance in 1981, the Hyatt Regency walkway in Kansas City, Missouri collapsed, killing 114 people and injuring 200.\n\n"}
{"id": "27944730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27944730", "title": "Teatro delle Quattro Fontane", "text": "Teatro delle Quattro Fontane\n\nThe Teatro delle Quattro Fontane (Theatre of the Four Fountains) is an opera house in Rome, Italy, designed (in part) by Gian Lorenzo Bernini and built in 1632 by the Barberini family. It was located in \"Via delle Quattro Fontane\", near the Piazza Barberini and the Quattro Fontane or \"Four Fountains\".\n\nThe theatre opened in 1632 with the opera, \"Sant' Alessio\" (\"Saint Alexis\"; first performed in 1631), composed by Stefano Landi to a libretto by Giulio Rospigliosi, a protégé of the Barberini Pope Urban VIII, later himself elected Pope Clement IX. The theatre could seat 3000.\n\nThe theatre closed temporarily in 1642 at the height of the Barberini Wars of Castro with the Farnese Dukes of Parma which became incredibly expensive for the family and the Holy See. The theatre had not yet reopened before when its patrons, the three Barberini nephews of Pope Urban (Francesco Barberini, Antonio Barberini (Antonio the Younger), and Taddeo Barberini), were sent into exile by the newly elected Pope Innocent X.\n\nFinally in 1653, after more than 10 years with its doors closed, Taddeo's son Maffeo Barberini returned to Rome and married Olimpia Giustiniani; finally reconciling the Barberini with the papacy. As the new Prince of Palestrina he reopened the theatre and recommenced performances.\n\nIn 1632, the theatre was rebuilt and was particularly active during the late 1940s, after World War II.\n\nThe building was converted into a modern cinema in the 1960s and now houses the \"Multisala Barberini\" (\"Multiplex Barberini\") which shows a full range of modern films.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5088486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5088486", "title": "The Puerto Rican Day", "text": "The Puerto Rican Day\n\n\"The Puerto Rican Day\" is the 176th episode of the NBC sitcom \"Seinfeld\". It aired on May 7, 1998, and was the 20th episode of the ninth and final season. It was the show's second-highest-rated episode of all time, with 38.8 million viewers, only behind the series finale. The episode aired one week before the two-part clip show and the two-part series finale aired. Because of controversy surrounding a scene in which Cosmo Kramer accidentally burns and then stomps on the Puerto Rican flag, NBC was forced to apologize and had it banned from airing on the network again. Also, it was not initially part of the syndicated package. In the summer of 2002, the episode started to appear with the flag-burning sequence intact. \n\nThis episode of \"Seinfeld\" has more writer credits (ten) than any other episode. As co-creator Larry David was returning to write the finale, this was the final episode for the active \"after Larry David\" writing staff and thus was a group effort.\n\n\"The Puerto Rican Day\" was a rare late-series return to a \"plot about nothing\" style, filmed in real-time, more commonly seen in early seasons (such as \"The Chinese Restaurant\").\n\nThe gang are heading back to Manhattan after leaving a Mets game early in order to beat the traffic, but run into trouble with a driver in a maroon Volkswagen Golf. In the car, George boasts about the clever comment (\"That's gotta hurt!\") he recently made during a pivotal moment in a new film about the \"Hindenburg\" disaster titled \"Blimp\".\n\nAs they approach Fifth Avenue, traffic is blocked by the annual Puerto Rican Day Parade. They almost find a way out, headed the wrong way down a one-way side street, but are blocked by their nemesis in the maroon Golf, whose driver refuses to let them cross over.\n\nElaine gets out of the car, worried about not being able to arrive home for her Sunday night \"weekend wind-down\" routine, which includes watching \"60 Minutes\". She starts walking only to find the traffic move again. She gets into a taxi (where she is oddly irritated by the sight of a dog with its ear flipped inside out), only to find the traffic immediately stop. Then, she leaves the taxi, only to find the traffic immediately moving again. She jumps back into the taxi.\n\nGeorge also leaves the car when he sees that the film \"Blimp\" is playing in a nearby theater, and he wants to repeat his funny comment for a new audience. But his attempt to be funny is undermined by a man with a laser pointer. When George makes the comment, nobody laughs because they are instead laughing at the laser. George berates the man, who then promptly shines the laser upon him.\n\nJerry and Kramer are finally allowed to take their shortcut when Jerry is forced to make an apologetic wave to the maroon Golf driver. As they pass by the Golf, Jerry calls the driver a \"jackass\", only to find himself blocked by oncoming traffic, including the taxi Elaine is in. The maroon Golf driver laughs and won't let him back up again.\n\nA frustrated George then returns to the car, only to find the red dot of the laser pointer appearing all over parts of his body. A panicked George can't see the man holding the laser and worries he will go blind if it touches his eye.\n\nSeeking an alternative way home, Elaine tries to find a way out by walking underneath the viewing stands. In a send up of \"The Poseidon Adventure\", Elaine becomes the leader of a group of similarly distressed people trying to find their way out. She ultimately, however, leads them to a dead end where they have to scream for help to the people above.\n\nKramer, meanwhile, becomes desperate for a restroom and spots an apartment for sale across the street. To gain access to its restroom, he poses as H.E. Pennypacker, a wealthy industrialist, philanthropist, and bicyclist interested in the property. While there he sees the Mets game (they had left early) on the apartment's television. He excitedly tells Jerry, who also leaves the car and enters the apartment to watch, posing under his alias Kel Varnsen.\n\nGeorge thinks he spots the laser guy and plans a sneak attack, grabbing and breaking what he thinks is the laser pointer only to discover it is a pen. Back outside, Kramer accidentally sets the Puerto Rican flag on fire with a sparkler (\"Dios mio!\") and a mob of people, led by Bob and Cedric (in their third and final appearance), attacks him. He runs back into the apartment.\n\nGeorge also enters the apartment, as Art Vandelay, to wash the ink from his hands. Jerry then realizes that all three of them are in the apartment and nobody is watching the car. They look out the window to find it getting attacked by the angry mob. George then tells Jerry that the Mets lost, with Jerry sarcastically quipping \"I love a parade!\"\n\nLater that night, when the parade's finally over, Jerry, George and Kramer see the car having been, somehow, stuck into a stairwell. Elaine arrives, her clothes and hair filthy with food. Then the maroon Golf driver passes by and calls Jerry a \"jackass\". Defeated, the gang starts walking home and Jerry says \"remember where we parked\", making reference to the season three episode \"The Parking Garage\". While they're shown walking from behind, it is seen that George (unbeknownst to him) still has the laser dot on his lower backside.\n\n\"The Puerto Rican Day\" was criticized not only for the flag-burning incident, but also for the negative portrayal of Puerto Ricans, such as the scene where an angry mob of parade-goers damages Jerry's car, and Kramer later utters, \"It's like this every day in Puerto Rico. Puerto Ricans do not understand the meaning of the word \"joke\"!\" The episode sparked angry letters, protests outside NBC's Rockefeller Center in New York, and complaints from Puerto Rican activists. NBC formally apologized for the episode, and later pulled it from summer repeats, and was also omitted from the syndicated rerun package. However, the episode was added to the syndication package in August 2002, as Sony Pictures Television, which distributes the series, said that enough time had passed since the initial furor of the original airing.\n\n"}
{"id": "6226444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6226444", "title": "Théâtre de la Ville", "text": "Théâtre de la Ville\n\nIncluded among its many previous names are Théâtre Lyrique, Théâtre des Nations, and Théâtre Sarah-Bernhardt.\n\nThe theatre, which until the fall of Napoleon III in 1870 was officially known as the Théâtre Lyrique Impérial, was designed by the architect Gabriel Davioud for Baron Haussmann between 1860 and 1862 for the opera company more commonly known simply as the Théâtre Lyrique. That company's earlier theatre, the Théâtre Historique on the Boulevard du Temple, where it had performed since 1851, was slated for demolition as part of Haussmann's renovation of Paris. During the company's initial period on the Place du Châtelet, it was under the direction of Léon Carvalho and gave the premieres of Bizet's \"Les pêcheurs de perles\" (1863), Berlioz's \"Les Troyens à Carthage\" (1863), Gounod's \"Mireille\" (1864), Bizet's \"La jolie fille de Perth\" (1867), and Gounod's \"Roméo et Juliette\" (1867). Carvalho also presented the first performance of Verdi's revised and expanded version of \"Macbeth\" (in French) in 1865. Jules Pasdeloup took over as director in 1868 and gave the first Paris performances of Wagner's \"Rienzi\" in 1869. The Théâtre Lyrique on the Place du Châtelet was nearly completely destroyed by fire on 21 May 1871 during the recapturing of Paris by the forces of the Adolphe Thiers at the end of Paris Commune, and the Théâtre Lyrique opera company went bankrupt not long after.\n\nThe theatre was rebuilt in 1874 on the same plans and was at first called the Théâtre Lyrique-Dramatique, but was soon renamed to Théâtre Historique, which it retained until 1879, when it became Théâtre des Nations. Victor Maurel produced a season of Italian opera at the Théâtre des Nations in 1884. It included on 1 February 1884 the first Paris performance of Massenet's \"Hérodiade\", in the Italian version entitled \"Erodiade\". The cast included Fidès Devriès as Salomé, Guglielmina Tremelli as Hérodiade, Jean de Reszke as Jean, Maurel as Hérode, Édouard de Reszke as Phanuel, and Giuseppe Villani as Vitellius. In the tenth and final performance of \"Erodiade\" on 13 March three De Reszkes could be heard, as Josephine sang Salomé.\n\nIn 1887 the Opéra-Comique moved into the theatre after its previous home, the second Salle Favart, had been destroyed by fire. The name Théâtre Lyrique was restored, and the Opéra-Comique continued to perform in the theatre until 1898, when it returned to the newly built, third Salle Favart. During the company's sojourn on the Place du Châtelet, it presented several operas by Massenet, including the premieres of \"Esclarmonde\" (1889) and \"Sapho\" (1897), as well as the first Paris performances of \"Werther\" (6 January 1893) and \"La Navarraise\" (3 October 1895).\n\nIn 1899 the theatre was renamed Théâtre Sarah-Bernhardt after the renowned actress Sarah Bernhardt, who produced there from 1899 for nearly two decades. She opened with a revival of one of her great roles, Victorien Sardou's \"La Tosca\". Other productions included a revival of Edmond Rostand's \"La Samaritaine\" and the premiere of his \"L'Aiglon\" in which she played Napoleon's son (the Duke of Reichstadt). Another well known breeches part was the title role of Marcel Schwob's adaptation of \"Hamlet\". After her death in 1923 the theatre continued under her son Maurice for several years. After his death in 1928 the theatre kept the name Sarah Bernhardt until the Occupation of France by the Germans in World War II, when the name was changed to Théâtre de la Cité because of Bernhardt's Jewish ancestry.\n\nDiaghilev's Ballets Russes presented several premieres at the Théâtre Sarah-Bernhardt, including Stravinsky's \"Apollon musagète\" (12 June 1928) and the revised \"Renard\" (21 May 1929; with choreography by Serge Lifar), and two ballets by Prokoviev, \"Le pas d'acier\" (27 May 1927) and \"Le Fils prodigue\" (21 May 1929).\n\nThe theatre first acquired the name Théâtre de la Ville in 1968. Since the late 1970s the institution, under the direction of Jean Mercure (1968–1985) then of Gérard Violette (1985–2008), has been internationally recognised for its contemporary dance productions and has showcased major choreographers such as Pina Bausch, Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker, Jan Fabre, Sankai Juku, Sidi Larbi Cherkaoui, Merce Cunningham and Carolyn Carlson.\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "11194886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11194886", "title": "Vasanthotsavam", "text": "Vasanthotsavam\n\nVasanthotsavam is an annual Seva celebrated in Tirumala to celebrate the arrival of spring season. \n\nVasantotsavam is the combination of 2 words - \"Vasantha\" (Spring season in Sanskrit) and \"Utsavam\" (festival in Sanskrit). The festival is celebrated on the three days of \"tryodasi\", \"chaturdasi\" and \"pournami\" in the month of Chaitra In the Gregorian calendar, the festival occurs between the end of March through mid-April.\n\nThe start of the festival celebration in Tirumala is recorded during the period of Achyutaraya (Saka 1460). The festival was started with the fund of 3000 narpanam contributed by Periya Solai, the son of the accountant in the temple.\n\nThe festival starts with \"ankurarpanam\" (sowing the nine kind of seeds) ceremony conducted on the day of Uttarabhadra star in Hindu calendar month of phalguna. One day before the start of the Vasanthotsavam festival, \"punya vachanam\" (purificatory rites), \"vaasthu santhi\" (worship of deity and lord of nature and their elements and natural forces as well as lord and deity of directions and environment) and \"samprokshanam\" rituals are performed by the temple priests(sacred consecration). Access to these rituals are not open to public.\n\n\"Abhishekam\" - specifically called \"Snapana Thirumanjanam\" (Holy bathing), is performed to the \"utsava murthy\" and his consorts on all the three days in the Vasanthotsavam hall outside the temple premises. On the third day, abhishekam is performed to the idols of Rama, Sita, Lakshmana and Hanuman along with Krishna and Rukmini.Procession of the consecrated idols are taken in a procession in the evening on all the three days. \n\nThe Vasanthotsavam hall was demolished as part of the revamping of the temple surroundings in 2006 and since then the Vaibhavotsava Mandapam situated in front of the main temple is used for the festival.\n\nVasonthotsavam is a \"arjitha seva\" - paid service where pilgrims pay to view the ceremony. Each ticket costs Rs 300 ($7) and allows 1 person. Apart from entry to the abhishekam hall, the ticket holder receives one silk \"angavastram\" for men, a blouse piece for the women, 2 dosas, 1 vadas and temple \"annaprasadams\" (rice based blessed food).\n"}
{"id": "58255843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58255843", "title": "Voice Piece for Soprano", "text": "Voice Piece for Soprano\n\nVoice Piece for Soprano is a 1961 vocal composition by the Japanese artist and musician Yoko Ono.\n\nThe score for the piece consists of the word 'scream' with three options for screaming given to the performer; to scream 'against the wind', 'against the wall' and 'against the sky'.\n\nThe theorist G Douglas Barrett in his 2016 book \"After Sound: Toward a Critical Music\" described the repetition of the word 'against' in the score for \"Vocal Piece for Soprano\" as redoubling \"the screams singularly confrontational, antagonistic, and contrarian quality\".\n\nThe piece was part of Ono's 2015 retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. Ono performed the piece herself several times during the duration of the exhibition, and visitors were encouraged via an \"instruction piece\" to scream into an amplified microphone. The sound of visitors screaming could be heard throughout the atrium of the museum for he duration of the exhibition from July to November, with the screams being heard as high as the museum's fifth floor.\n"}
{"id": "3345456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3345456", "title": "William P. Lawrence", "text": "William P. Lawrence\n\nWilliam Porter \"Bill\" Lawrence (January 13, 1930December 2, 2005), was a decorated United States Navy vice admiral and Naval Aviator who served as Superintendent of the U.S. Naval Academy from 1978 to 1981.\n\nLawrence was a noted pilot, the first Naval Aviator to fly twice the speed of sound in a naval aircraft, and one of the final candidates for the Mercury space program. During the Vietnam War, Lawrence was shot down while on a combat mission and spent six years as a prisoner of war, from 1967 to 1973. During this time, he became noted for his resistance to his captors.\n\nLawrence's parents and grandparents were from Tennessee. His father Robert Landy \"Fatty\" Lawrence (1903–1976) attended Vanderbilt University, where he was a noted student-athlete who graduated in 1924. He was born in Nashville, and attended local schools. Lawrence distinguished himself as a student athlete at Nashville's West High School, and in 1947 turned down a scholarship for Yale University to attend the United States Naval Academy.\n\nLawrence stood out as a varsity athlete in three sports at the Naval Academy: football, basketball, and baseball. During his time at the Academy, he held several high-ranking midshipman offices, including Commander of the Brigade of Midshipmen, President of the Class of 1951, while also graduating 8th academically out of a class of 725. His other major accomplishments included helping to establish the honor concept governing midshipman's conduct. He graduated from the Naval Academy in 1951. Ensign Lawrence continued on at the Naval Academy as Aide to the Commandant of Midshipmen until September 1951, when he reported to flight training.\n\nLawrence received his \"Wings of Gold\" as a Naval Aviator in 1952 and became a test pilot. After completing advanced flight training, All Weather Flight School, and Jet Training, then-Lieutenant Lawrence served as an F2H Banshee pilot with VF-193 at NAS Moffett Field from March 1953 to October 1955. During this time, he deployed to Korea aboard the aircraft carrier from March to April 1953. He attended the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School at the Naval Air Test Center, Naval Air Station Patuxent River, Maryland, where he received the Outstanding Student Award with the Test Pilot School Class 16. When the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) established the manned spaceflight program, Lawrence became part of Project Mercury and made it to the final round of candidates. He was released from the program only because of a small heart murmur discovered during flight training.\n\nIn 1967, then-Commander Lawrence was serving as commanding officer of Fighter Squadron 143 (VF-143), aboard the aircraft carrier . On 28 June 1967, Lawrence and his radar intercept officer, Lieutenant, junior grade James W. Bailey, were flying an F-4B Phantom II aircraft, Bureau Number 152242, while leading an anti-aircraft suppression section during a raid northwest of Nam Dinh, North Vietnam. Their aircraft was struck by an 85 mm round while rolling in on target. Despite failing hydraulics, Lawrence and Bailey released their bombs, but part of the aircrafts tail section separated while attempting to pull out of a dive. Both officers were forced to eject, were captured, and were held as prisoners of war at the Hỏa Lò Prison – which the prisoners nicknamed the \"Hanoi Hilton\" – until 1973, during which time they suffered repeated torture and beatings. Along with fellow prisoner, Naval Aviator and Commander (later Vice Admiral) James Stockdale, Lawrence became noted for his resistance to his captors. Additionally, he memorized every POW by name and rank while in captivity. He developed a code by tapping on the prison walls to communicate with other prisoners. Bailey was released on 18 February 1973 and Lawrence on 4 March 1973. Another fellow inmate was future presidential candidate and Senator John McCain, who was also a Navy commander and Naval Aviator at the time. In Lawrence's obituary in the \"Los Angeles Times\", Senator McCain stated, \"He's probably the greatest man I've ever known in my life,\" and that it was the former's \"...constant, steadfast, inspirational, yet very rational leadership that guided many of us through some very difficult times.\" He was among the 591 Americans released as part of \"Operation Homecoming.\" Lawrence tells of his POW's experience in Al Santoli's \"Everything We Had\".\n\nAfter promotion to rear admiral in July 1974, Lawrence served as Commander, Light Attack Wing, U.S. Pacific Fleet at Naval Air Station Lemoore, California. Subsequently, he served as the Director, Aviation Programs Division and Assistant Deputy Chief of Naval Operations (Air Warfare) in the Pentagon. He was promoted to vice admiral on August 1, 1980. Lawrence assumed command of the U.S. Third Fleet in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, in September 1981. In 1983, he won the Hawaii Armed Forces singles tennis championship in the seniors division (over 45).\n\nAdmiral Lawrence served as Superintendent of the U.S. Naval Academy from August 1978 to August 1981. The Naval Academy was opened to women starting with the Class of 1980 (inducted July 1976). His daughter Wendy Lawrence was part of the Class of 1981, the second USNA class to include female graduates.\n\nHe retired in 1986.\n\nWhile a prisoner of war, Lawrence mentally composed poetry to help keep up his spirits. During a 60-day period of solitary confinement, he composed, by memory, the poem \"Oh Tennessee, My Tennessee,\" in honor of his native state. In 1973, the Tennessee State Legislature adopted the poem as Tennessee's official state poem.\n\n\nWhen Lawrence returned from captivity in Vietnam in 1973, he found that his wife had remarried. The following year, he married Diane Wilcox Rauch.\n\nLawrence died at home at the age of 75. He was survived by his second wife, daughters Wendy and Laurie, son William Jr. and stepson Frederick.\n\nWendy B. Lawrence followed her father into the Navy and attained the rank of captain. Like her father, she became a Naval Aviator. She later become a NASA astronaut and flew multiple Space Shuttle missions. Her sister, Dr. Laurie Lawrence, attended Vanderbilt University and is a physician at the Vanderbilt University Medical Center.\n\n\n\n"}
