{"id": "8628964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8628964", "title": "Abolition of Poindings and Warrant Sales Act 2001", "text": "Abolition of Poindings and Warrant Sales Act 2001\n\nThe Abolition of Poindings and Warrant Sales Act 2001 was an Act of the Scottish Parliament to abolish the previous practice in which a debtor’s goods are priced (poinding) in preparation for the enforced sale of the debtor’s possessions (warrant sale). The legislation was introduced in 1999 as a member's bill by Tommy Sheridan MSP, the sole member of the Scottish Socialist Party in the Parliament.\n\nThe original draft of the bill proposed that it would have immediate effect, but this was subsequently amended to delay implementation of the bill until 2002, so that alternative means of debt recovery could be devised. The Scottish Executive eventually proposed the Debt Arrangement and Attachment Bill, which became the Debt Arrangement and Attachment Bill Act 2002 and repealed the Abolition of Poindings and Warrant Sales Act.\n\nThe Debt Arrangement and Attachment Act was criticised by Sheridan for introducing \"a new form of warrant sales\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8083063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8083063", "title": "Accelerated depreciation", "text": "Accelerated depreciation\n\nAccelerated depreciation refers to any one of several methods by which a company, for 'financial accounting' or tax purposes, depreciates a fixed asset in such a way that the amount of depreciation taken each year is higher during the earlier years of an asset’s life. For financial accounting purposes, accelerated depreciation is expected to be much more productive during its early years, so that depreciation expense will more accurately represent how much of an asset’s usefulness is being used up each year. For tax purposes, accelerated depreciation provides a way of deferring corporate income taxes by reducing taxable income in current years, in exchange for increased taxable income in future years. This is a valuable tax incentive that encourages businesses to purchase new assets. \n\nFor financial reporting purposes, the two most popular methods of accelerated depreciation are the double declining balance method and the sum-of-the-years’ digits method. For tax purposes, the allowable methods of accelerated depreciation depend on the tax law that the taxpayer is subject to. In the United States, the two currently allowable depreciation methods for tax purposes are both accelerated depreciation methods (ACRS and MACRS).\n\nCompanies in many countries pay taxes on profits: revenues minus expenses. There are various types of expenses, including salaries paid to workers, cost of inputs, and amortization and depreciation. Profits for tax purposes will, in most countries, differ from accounting profits or earnings.\n\nUnder both financial accounting and tax accounting, companies are not allowed to claim the entire cost of a capital asset (any asset which can be used for many years) as an expense immediately. They must amortize the cost of the asset over some period, usually an approximation of the useful life of the asset. The depreciation basis is the cost incurred by the company in acquiring the asset. The useful life of the asset is determined by looking at Section 168(e)(3) of the United States Tax Code, and is known as the class life of the property. An example would be that a railroad track has a useful life of 7 years. This is not the end of the analysis however, because then it becomes necessary to look at the applicable recovery period of the property. The applicable recovery period determines the number of years over which the property should be depreciated. Section 168(e)(1) provides a table for determining the applicable recovery period. Following our 7 year railroad track, the table states that property with a useful life of more than 4 years but less than 10 years will be treated as 5 year property. Finally, it is important to determine the applicable convention for depreciation. Section 168(d)(4) of the U.S. Tax Code gives three different types: half year convention, the mid-month convention, and the midquarter convention. Conventions determine how much of the depreciation deduction the taxpayer may take the first year. This prevents taxpayers from claiming a full year's deduction when the asset has only been in service for part of the year. \n\nGovernments generally provide opportunities to defer taxes where there are specific policy reasons to encourage an industry. For example, accelerated depreciation is used in some countries to encourage investment in renewable energy. Further, governments have increased accelerated depreciation methods in time of economic stress (in particular, the US government passed laws after 9-11 to further accelerate depreciation on capital assets).\n\nAs a simple example, a company buys a generator that costs $1,000 that is expected to last for 10 years. Under the most simple form of depreciation, the company might allocate $100 of the cost of the generator to its expenses every year, until the $1000 capital expense has been \"used up.\" Under accelerated depreciation, the company may be allowed to allocate $200 of the cost of the generator for five years.\n\nIf the company has $200 in profits per year (before consideration of the cost of the generator or any effects of debt or other factors), and the tax rate is 20%:\n\na) Normal depreciation: the company claims $100 in depreciation every year and has a tax profit of $100; it must pay tax of $20 on the $100 gain. Over ten years, $200 in taxes are paid.\n\nb) Accelerated depreciation: the company claims $200 in depreciation for the first five years, and nothing for the last five years. For the first five years, it has no taxable profit and pays no gains tax. For the last five years, the company has a gain of $200, and pays $40 per year in tax, for a total of $200.\n\nTo compare these two (simplified) cases, the company pays $200 in taxes in both instances. In the second case, it has deferred taxes to a much later period. The deferral of taxes to a later period is favorable according to the time value of money principle.\n\n(This example has been simplified for a basic demonstration of how accelerated depreciation works. It does not factor in an accurate class life, recovery period or account for convention.) \n\n\nSection 168(e)(3) United States Tax Code\nSection 168(e)(1) United States Tax Code\nSection 168(d)(4) United States Tax Code\n"}
{"id": "36972576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36972576", "title": "Aquatic Warbler Memorandum of Understanding", "text": "Aquatic Warbler Memorandum of Understanding\n\nThe Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) concerning Conservation Measures for the Aquatic Warbler is a multilateral environmental memorandum of understanding concluded in 2003 under the auspices of the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS), also known as the Bonn Convention. This MoU provides the basis for governments, NGO’s and scientists to work together to save the aquatic warbler, Europe’s rarest songbird. The MoU covers 22 range states (Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, France, Germany, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Russian Federation, Senegal, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Ukraine and United Kingdom). As of August 2012, 16 range states have signed the MoU as well as two cooperating organizations.\n\nA meeting of the range states of the aquatic warbler was held in Minsk, Belarus, from 29 to 30 April 2003, to negotiate and adopt a MoU and action plan for the conservation of the species. The meeting was co-organized by the CMS Secretariat in cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection of Belarus, BirdLife International, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) and APB-BirdLife Belarus. Representatives from 12 range states were present and the MoU was adopted and entered into effect on 30 April 2003.\n\nSignatories to the Aquatic Warbler MoU: \n\nIn addition, two organizations signed the MoU:\n\nThe MoU aims to safeguard the aquatic warbler \"(Acrocephalus paludicola)\" a small migratory waterbird that is estimated to have declined sharply at a rate equivalent to 40 per cent in the last 10 years. It reflects the common concern over this dramatic decline and calls for cooperation among national authorities to promote the conservation of the species.\n\nThe MoU protects the population of aquatic warblers in all range states. The aquatic warbler is the rarest and the only internationally threatened passerine bird found in mainland Europe. Apart from a very small remnant population in Western Siberia, its breeding grounds are completely confined to Europe. As of May 2010, its global population of only 10,200-13,800 males is confined to less than 40 sites in only six countries, with four sites supporting over 80% of the global population. The main threat the aquatic warbler is facing is the loss of habitat due to the decline of traditional, extensive agriculture and overgrowing of the species’ habitat with reeds and bushes or trees.\n\nAll signatories decide to work closely together to improve the conservation status of the aquatic warbler throughout its breeding, migrating and wintering range. To that end they will, individually or collectively:\n\nThe MoU took effect following the fifth signature (30 April 2003) and will remain in effect indefinitely subject to the right of any signatory to terminate its participation by providing one year’s written notice to all to the other signatories.\n\nMeetings of signatories are organized regularly to review the conservation status of the aquatic warbler and the implementation of the MoU and Action Plan. National reports from the signatories and an overview report prepared by the secretariat are also submitted.\n\nThe First Meeting of Signatories took place in Nationalpark Unteres Odertal, Criewen, Germany, 25–27 June 2006. During this meeting the geographical scope of the MoU was expanded to include Mauritania and Morocco, since these countries seem to be important stop-over sites for the aquatic warbler. Furthermore, the signatories endorsed working further with competent authorities of three countries originally identified as range states – France, the Netherlands and the Russian Federation. The signatories represented at the meeting were Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Germany, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Senegal, Ukraine and the United Kingdom. France and the Russian Federation, as range states, were also present as well as BirdLife International.\n\nThe Second Meeting of Signatories took place in Biebrza National Park, Poland, 13–15 May 2010. At the meeting France and Mali added their signatures and became signatories to the MoU. France is especially important, because the entire world population passes through France once or twice a year, when the birds depend on intact refueling stations. Furthermore, the signatories decided to extend the geographical coverage of the MoU to include an additional seven new countries in Europe and Africa (Luxembourg, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Portugal, Slovakia and Switzerland), bringing the range state total to 22. Finally, a new International Species Action Plan for the Aquatic Warbler, prepared by CMS’s partner BirdLife International on behalf of the European Union, was adopted. This plan helps to protect the species throughout its range and its breeding populations expand to other sites that had been lost in the past. In addition to giving a detailed account of distribution, biology and conservation status of the bird species, it envisages concrete actions to be taken by the countries. Future project implementation priorities were also discussed, and high among these is the continued search for confirmed wintering sites in sub-Sahelian Africa.\n\nThe CMS Secretariat – located in Bonn, Germany – acts as the secretariat to the MoU. Funding for coordination services for the MoU for 2010-2012 has been secured from the government of Switzerland and the RSPB (BirdLife International’s partner organization in the UK), with coordination provided by BirdLife through the RSPB and the Belarus BirdLife partner BSPB.\n\nA detailed Action Plan is annexed to the MoU. It summarizes the distribution, biology and conservation status of the species, and describes precise actions to be taken by relevant countries. The main objective of the Action Plan is to maintain the aquatic warbler throughout its range and, in medium to long term, promote the expansion of the breeding population to other suitable areas. Actions to be taken by the signatories can be summarized in four categories:\n\nIn 2007, a BirdLife International team discovered a key site within the aquatic warbler’s wintering grounds in West Africa, which was completely unknown until then. The Djoudj National Park in northwest Senegal and its surroundings are believed to hold up to a third of the world population.\n\nThe Polish BirdLife partner led a major project from 2005-2011, funded largely by the European Union’s LIFE Nature programme, to restore 42,000 ha of the aquatic warbler’s peatland habitat in Poland and Germany. The project’s main objective is to establish the population of aquatic warbler in key areas of its range and aims to improve and increase the habitats at the most important sites of the species in Biebrza, Poland and to prevent the extinction of the genetically distinct remnant population in Pomerania, Germany. Its aim is to raise awareness of authorities, key stakeholders and the local public of the conservation needs of the species and its specific habitat requirements. The project wanted to create 1,500 ha of new potential habitat in Pomerania and Biebrza and implement restoration actions on another 1,500 ha with the aim of obtaining an increase of 15 per cent in the species population. Measures to be implemented include hydrological management, removal of shrubs and overgrowth from wet meadows and mires and initiation of extensive grazing and considerate mowing of aquatic warbler habitats. The project ended in November 2011 and a report with the major achievements was published. These achievements were:\n\nAt the beginning of 2012 some disturbing news about the aquatic warbler population was reported. In 2012 the population was severely affected by the breeding sites in Europe rapidly overgrowing with reeds and the wintering grounds in Africa affected by droughts, therefore causing an unprecedented crash. The latest monitoring results, conducted by The BirdLife International Aquatic Warbler Conservation Team (AWCT), showed decrease of approximately 1/3 in each of the countries where the species breed (Lithuania, Poland, Belarus and Ukraine). One exception was the sustainably managed areas in the Biebrza National Park in Poland where the population remained stable.\n\n"}
{"id": "55516962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55516962", "title": "Association for Law, Property and Society", "text": "Association for Law, Property and Society\n\nThe Association for Law, Property and Society is a scholarly organization for researching engaging in the study of property law and social issues. The association hosts an annual conference, the first of which occurred at Georgetown Law in 2010, and is also the publisher of the journal \"Law, Property and Society\". The current president of the association is Douglas Harris of the Peter A. Allard School of Law.\n"}
{"id": "41109403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41109403", "title": "Attacks on parachutists", "text": "Attacks on parachutists\n\nAttacks on parachutists, as defined by the law of war, is when pilots, aircrews, and passengers are attacked while descending by parachute from disabled aircraft during wartime. This practice is considered by most militaries around the world to be inhumane, barbaric, and unchivalrous, that it is unnecessary killing (the attacked personnel would eventually become POWs if parachuted over enemy territory), and that it is contrary to fair play. Attacking parachutists from aircraft in distress is a war crime under the Protocol I addition to the 1949 Geneva Conventions. Firing on airborne forces who are descending by parachute is not prohibited.\n\nAfter World War I, a series of meetings were held at The Hague in 1922–1923. Based on the testimony of First World War pilots, a commission of jurists attempted to codify this practice with the Hague Rules of Air Warfare. Article 20 prescribed that: \n\nWhen an aircraft has been disabled, the occupants when endeavoring to escape by means of parachute must not be attacked in the course of their descent. \nThe Hague Rules of Air Warfare never came into force. There was no legal prohibition of targeting parachuting enemy airmen before or during World War II. In 1949, as a result of widespread practices and abuses committed during the Second World War, the newly modified and updated versions of the Geneva Conventions came into force providing greater protections to protected persons, but there was still no explicit prohibition on the shooting of parachuting enemy combatants. However, despite this, military manuals around the world issued prohibitions on attacking enemy personnel parachuting from aircraft in distress. Paragraph 30 of the United States Army's Field Manual published by the Department of the Army, on July 18, 1956 (last modified on July 15, 1976), under the title \"The Law of Land Warfare\", states:\n\n30. Persons Descending by Parachute\nThe law of war does not prohibit firing upon paratroops or other persons who are or appear to be bound upon hostile missions while such persons are descending by parachute. Persons other than those mentioned in the preceding sentence who are descending by parachute from disabled aircraft may not be fired upon. \nIn 1977, this practice was finally codified in Protocol I in addition to the 1949 Geneva Conventions:\nArticle 42 – Occupants of aircraft\n\nTargeting parachutists became an issue during the First World War when fighter pilots targeted manned enemy observation balloons. After shooting down a balloon, most pilots refrained from firing at the balloon observers as they escaped by parachute, because they felt it was inhumane and unchivalrous. The extension of this courtesy to enemy pilots began towards the end of the First World War when parachutes were provided for pilots of fixed-wing aircraft, but it was again widely perceived that once aircrew were forced to bail out of a damaged aircraft, presuming they did not offer any further resistance, they were considered to have been honorably defeated in battle and should not be \"finished off\".\n\nBy July 1918, German and Austro-Hungarian Air Force parachute escapes had become routine. The Heinecke chutes that German and Austro-Hungarian pilots received were not perfect and sometimes failed to operate safely. Some were destroyed by fire before they could open, and occasionally pilots faced the peril of being shot at by Allied fighters. British flying ace James Ira T. Jones had no compunction in doing this. \"My habit of attacking Huns dangling from parachutes led to many arguments in the mess,\" he said. \"Some officers of the Eton and Sandhurst type, thought it 'unsportsmanlike'. Never having been to a public school, I was unhampered by such considerations of 'form'. I just pointed out that there was a bloody war on, and that I intended to avenge my pals.\"\n\nAt the beginning of World War II, there was a strong sense of chivalry between the British RAF and German Luftwaffe pilots. They regarded themselves as \"knights of the air\" and shooting parachuting enemy aircrew was contrary to their code of honour. The question of shooting an enemy pilot parachuting over his own territory aroused bitter debate on both sides. On August 31, 1940, during the Battle of Britain, RAF Air Chief Marshal Hugh Dowding dined with Prime Minister Winston Churchill at Chequers. After dinner, they discussed the morality of shooting parachuting Luftwaffe pilots. Dowding suggested that German pilots were perfectly entitled to shoot RAF pilots parachuting over Britain as they were still potential combatants (i.e., piloting new aircraft to conduct another military mission) while RAF pilots should refrain from firing at German pilots as they were out of combat and would eventually become prisoners of war once they landed on British soil. Churchill was appalled by this suggestion, arguing that shooting a parachuting pilot \"was like drowning a sailor\". On the German side, Luftwaffe commander-in-chief Hermann Göring asked Luftwaffe fighter ace Adolf Galland about what he thought about shooting enemy pilots while in their parachutes, even over their own territory. Galland replied that, \"I should regard it as murder, Herr Reichsmarschall. I should do everything in my power to disobey such an order\". Goering—who had been a fighter ace himself during World War I—said, \"That is just the reply I had expected from you, Galland\".\n\nDespite such sentiments, there were a number of incidents where the shooting of parachuting enemy aviators occurred. On September 1, 1939, in the Modlin area, during the German invasion of Poland, pilots of the Polish Pursuit Brigade encountered a group of 40 German bombers escorted by 20 Bf 109 and Bf 110 fighters. During combat, Lt. Aleksander Gabszewicz was forced to bail out of his aircraft. While in his parachute, Gabszewicz was strafed by a Bf 110. Second Lt. Tadeusz Sawicz, flying nearby, attacked the German plane and another Polish pilot, Wladyslaw Kiedrzynski, spiraled around the defenseless Gabszewicz until he reached the ground. On September 2, Sec. Lt. Jan Dzwonek, along with eight other Polish pilots, attacked a couple of German fighters approaching their direction. In the battle, Dzwonek's plane was shot down and he was forced to bail out. Hanging in his parachute, he was attacked twice by a Bf 110. Apparently, the Luftwaffe pilot was so busy attacking the defenseless Dzwonek that Corporal Jan Malinowski, flying an obsolete P.7 fighter, downed the German plane. Dzwonek later recounted the story:\n\nDuring the Battle of Britain, Polish and Czech pilots serving in the RAF sometimes shot at Luftwaffe pilots parachuting over Britain. Many Germans charged that this was regular practice by the Poles and the Czechs, but there was little hard evidence of it. The leading historian of the Polish Air Force, Adam Zamoyski, conceded that \"it is true that some pilots still finished off parachuting Germans by flying directly over them; the slipstream would cause the parachute to cannon and the man would fall into the ground like a stone.\"\n\nIn mid-1942, the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) arrived in Britain and carried out air raids over German-occupied Europe. There are verified accounts of German fighter pilots stopping their attacks to allow bomber crews to parachute from mortally stricken bombers. Nevertheless, the air war was bloody business and the objective of both sides was to wipe out the other. Some USAAF fighter pilots claimed they received unwritten orders from their officers to shoot enemy airmen parachuting over their own territory as they would rejoin their own units upon landing and fly in the air again to kill more Americans. Virgil Meroney of the 487th Fighter Squadron never shot a German pilot in his parachute, although on the other hand, he understood the mean realities of warfare and had no problem about killing an enemy aviator, regardless of whether or not he was helpless.\n\nOn March 8, 1944, Meroney and his Blue Flight were at the rear of 352d Fighter Group as it reached the end of its escort leg. The group turned to leave as they crossed the Dutch border into Germany near Meppen. \"Three Me 109s came out of the sun with a lot of speed and made a 90-degree attack on the rear bombers, breaking away in rolls,\" Meroney recalled. \"I called them in and went after the lead two as they stayed together, the third having broken in a different direction.\" Meroney drove his P-47 along with his squadron to attack the Germans who were trying to shoot down the USAAF B-17 heavy bombers and fired at the German planes. When the German pilot realized that his Bf 109 was badly in flames, he jumped out of his plane and pulled out his parachute. Amazingly, Meroney and his squadron didn't fire at the German pilot who was parachuting safely back to earth. This might have been because he and his flight were low on fuel and there was no knowing if there were other enemy aircraft in the area. Indeed, that more pilots and aircrew were not shot in their parachutes was probably due at least in part to the nature of aerial combat. The fights were a confusing whirl and a pilot who concentrated too long and hard on killing a man in a parachute could easily fall prey himself and end up, ironically, in the position of being shot up while in his parachute. Not molesting enemy pilots in their parachutes was a practical matter as well as a chivalrous one.\n\nOn December 20, 1943, a B-17 bomber piloted by 2nd Lt. Charles 'Charlie' Brown, after a successful bombing run on the German city of Bremen, was attacked by dozens of German fighters. Brown's bomber was seriously damaged, most of his crewmen were wounded, and his tail gunner was killed. Luftwaffe pilot and ace Franz Stigler then approached the crippled bomber. He was able to see the injured and incapacitated crew. To the American pilot's surprise, Stigler did not open fire on the crippled bomber. Remembering the words of one of his commanding officers from the Jagdgeschwader 27, Gustav Rödel, during his time fighting in North Africa, \"You are fighter pilots first, last, always. If I ever hear of any of you shooting at someone in a parachute, I'll shoot you myself.\" Stigler later commented, \"To me, it was just like they were in a parachute. I saw them and I couldn't shoot them down.\" Twice, Stigler tried to get Brown to land his plane at a German airfield and surrender, or divert to nearby neutral Sweden, where he and his crew would receive medical treatment but be interned and sit out the remainder of the war. Brown refused and flew on. Stigler then flew near Brown's plane, escorting it until they reached the North Sea and departed with a salute.\n\nStill, both German and American pilots did shoot enemy airmen in their parachutes, albeit infrequently. Richard \"Bud\" Peterson, a P-51 pilot with the 357th Fighter Group based out of Leiston, agreed that \"normally, \"nobody\", including the Germans, would be shooting anybody in a parachute. It just wasn't done. I mean, there's no challenge with shooting a guy in a parachute, for God's sake.\" However, on one mission he saw an Bf 109 systematically firing at American B-17 bomber crews as they descended in their parachutes. After Peterson forced the offending German pilot to bail out, he killed him as he was descending. He recalled that some of his unit were nervous that this would invite a retaliatory response from the Luftwaffe. \"But they had to be there to know what I was seeing,\" Peterson said. \"Those guys were helpless, the bomber crews going down\".\n\nSeveral German sources (examples below) claim that American pilots frequently practised shooting at parachutes, especially closer to the end of the war when Germany had more planes than pilots:\n\nThaen Kwock Lee was a B-17 waist gunner with the 483rd Bomb Group, a 15th Air Force unit, when his aircraft was shot down by German Me 262s on March 22, 1945. He recalled that he and his crew bailed out in their parachutes and while descending back to earth, they were attacked by German Me 262s:\n\nWhile some American aviators shot enemy airmen in parachutes, the vast majority of USAAF fighter pilots detested the practice as they could not reconcile themselves to the notion of killing helpless enemy airmen. They insisted that they were trying to destroy aircraft rather than pilots. If an enemy airman perished with his aircraft, it was simply the brutal nature of war. But shooting him while he was in his parachute was quite another matter that few of them could stomach, even if he stood a good chance of flying in the air again. USAAF pilot Stanley Miles shared his experience on May 13, 1944, when the 352nd encountered a massive formation of enemy fighters. After getting involved in a dogfight with one of the German planes for a while, Miles shot down the plane, which caused the German pilot to bail out in his parachute. \"I had my gun camera running,\" he recalled, \"so I got some good shots of the tracers hitting the plane and the pilot jumping out. My wing-man was still with me, so I eased around, came back and got some nice film footage of the German pilot in his chute.\" Miles considered shooting the enemy pilot as he drifted helplessly back to earth. It was a topic that he and his squadron units had considered in earnest. \"One school of thought was that if you didn't shoot the guy, he'd land and be right back up fighting you the next day. I couldn't do it, however, and just took the film footage of him.\" Most American pilots used gun cameras to ensure they had adequate proof of their victories. Robert O' Nan of the 487th Fighter Squadron did this on April 10, 1944, after forcing an Focke-Wulf Fw 190 pilot to abandon his aircraft: \"I followed the plane down where it crashed, exploded, and burned up, in the middle of a plowed field. I took pictures of this. I also got pictures of the pilot dangling in his chute.\" None of them were considering shooting German pilots hanging in their parachutes.\n\nU.S. General Dwight D. Eisenhower, Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Europe, felt compelled to specifically forbid the practice. In the directive issued to U.S. Major General Carl Spaatz, commander of the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe, and British Air Chief Marshal Arthur Tedder (or Sir Arthur Harris according to \"D-Day Bombers: The Veterans' Story: RAF Bomber Command and the US Eighth Air Force Support to the Normandy Invasion 1944\" by Stephen Darlow) on June 2, 1944, in a preparation for Operation Overlord, he wrote:\n\nThere were episodes of shooting parachuting aircrew in the Mediterranean theater: on October 2, 1942, Captain Livio Ceccotti of the Regia Aeronautica was engaged by five Allied fighters, reportedly Spitfires, and after a dogfight in which two Spitfires were reportedly downed by him he was hit and forced to bail out from his Macchi C.202 fighter; as he was descending, he was reportedly strafed and killed by the surviving three fighters.\n\nThe Japanese gained a bad reputation among the Allies in the Pacific War for shooting enemy airmen dangling in their parachutes. This was because the Japanese viewed surrender as dishonorable and to them, bailed-out enemy pilots were considered to have surrendered. The first confirmed case was over the Chinese city of Nanking on September 19, 1937, during the Second Sino-Japanese War, when a Chinese pilot of the Boeing 281 (export version of the P-26) bailed out in his parachute after being targeted by IJNAS aircraft. Hanging in his parachute, he was killed after being shot by Japanese pilots. Pilots from both the IJNAS and IJAAS did this routinely throughout the war. As a result, Chinese and Russian volunteer pilots delayed opening their parachutes to avoid being strafed. Even after a safe parachute descent, the Japanese would still go after them. In July 1938, one Russian volunteer, Valentin Dudonov, bailed out in his parachute and landed on a sand bank in Lake Poyang after a collision with an IJNAS A5M aircraft. Another A5M aircraft came and strafed him on the sand bank. Dudonov had to jump and hide under water in the lake to avoid being attacked.\n\nOn December 23, 1941, 12 P-40 pilots of the American Volunteer Group (AVG) Flying Tigers intercepted 54 Japanese bombers escorted by 20 pursuit planes, who were bombing the city of Rangoon in Burma. During the battle, the AVG downed only five Japanese bombers with the loss of two P-40 pilots. P-40 pilot Paul J. Greene's plane was badly damaged which forced him to bail out in his parachute. He was strafed by Japanese fighters while descending to earth but managed to survive. \"You want to see my 'chute,\" he told Daily Express war correspondent O.D. Gallagher. \"It's got more holes in it than the nose of a watering-can.\"\n\nOn January 23, 1942, the AVG attacked Japanese bombers and fighters who resumed carrying out bombing raids on Rangoon. The AVG shot down 21, suffering only a single loss of a pilot named Bert Christman. During the dogfight, Christman's plane was damaged and he was forced to bail out. While parachuting over the rice paddies south of Rangoon, he was killed after being attacked by three IJAAS Nakajima aircraft. Bert Christman was buried the next day at the church of Edward The Martyr in Rangoon. Christman's remains were returned to his birthplace of Fort Collins, Colorado, after the war, where he was buried on February 4, 1950.\n\nIn June 1942, as part of the Japanese Midway operation, the Japanese attacked the Aleutian islands, off the south coast of Alaska. Tadayoshi Koga, a 19-year-old flight petty officer first class, was launched from the Japanese aircraft carrier \"Ryūjō\" as part of the June 4 raid. Koga was part of a three-plane section. His wingmen were Chief Petty Officer Makoto Endo and Petty Officer Tsuguo Shikada. Koga and his comrades attacked Dutch Harbor, shooting down an American PBY-5A Catalina flying boat piloted by Bud Mitchell and strafing its survivors in the water. Three successive attacks killed the PBY's crew. Koga was then killed when his damaged aircraft crash-landed on the island of Akutan.\n\nDuring the Malayan Campaign in 1942, Japanese pilots often shot British, Commonwealth, and Dutch airmen hanging in their parachutes. Australian pilot Herb Plenty witnessed a Dutch Brewster aircraft being shot down by Japanese fighters and the pilot bailed out in his parachute on January 17, 1942, near Bilton Island, some miles of Singapore. He also said that while most Japanese fighters were heading back to their own bases, two of them, however, came back and shot the parachuting Dutch pilot:\n\nOn March 31, 1943, a squadron of USAAF B-24 bombers sent to destroy a bridge at Pyinmana, Burma, were attacked by Japanese Zero fighters. One B-24 aircraft was shot down and its occupants, including 2nd Lt Owen J. Baggett, bailed out. While the downed B-24 crew members were descending, they were machine gunned by Japanese fighters. Two of the crewmen were killed and Baggett was wounded in the arm. He then played dead in his harness, hoping the Japanese would leave him alone. One Japanese plane, however, circled and approached very close to Baggett to make sure he was dead. Baggett raised his M1911 pistol and fired four shots into the cockpit, hitting the pilot; the Zero stalled and crashed. Baggett became legendary as the only person to down a Japanese aircraft with a M1911 pistol.\n\nOn September 15, 1943, seven B-24s of the 308's 373rd Squadron based at Yangkai Airfield were dispatched to attack a Vichy French cement plant in Haiphong, a major port on the Gulf of Tonkin, that had just been turned over to the Japanese though not without resistance from Governor-General of French Indochina, Jean Decoux. Two B-24s, however, broke down while attempting to take off from Yangkai Airfield so the five remaining planes continued the mission. When the five B-24s reached Haiphong, they were attacked by Japanese fighters. One plane went down, forcing the other planes to abandon the mission as they were continuously attacked. Two more planes went down and forced the aircrews to bail out. The Japanese pilots then went after one of the B-24 plane's parachutists and fired at them while they were descending to the ground, killing three and wounding three others. The other two B-24 planes escaped severe damage and returned to Yangkai Airfield (one plane, however, crashed at the airfield, killing the entire crew).\n\nOn May 5, 1945, an American B-29 bomber was flying with a dozen other aircraft after bombing Tachiaral Air Base in southwestern Japan, beginning the return flight to Guam. Kinzou Kasuya, a 19-year-old Japanese pilot flying one of the Japanese fighters in pursuit of the Americans, rammed his aircraft into the fuselage of the B-29, destroying both planes. No one knows for certain how many Americans were in the B-29 as its crew had been hastily assembled on Guam. Villagers in Japan who witnessed the collision in the air saw about a dozen parachutes blossom. One of the Americans died when the cords of his parachute were severed by another Japanese plane. A second was alive when he reached the ground. He shot all but his last bullet at the villagers coming toward him, then used the last on himself. The other nine B-29 airmen who were captured by the Japanese after landing were subjected to vivisection at the Kyushu Imperial University. Professor Ishiyama Fukujirō and other doctors conducted four such sessions throughout May and early-June. The Western Military Command assisted in arranging these operations. Many of the Japanese personnel responsible for the deaths of Allied airmen were prosecuted in the Yokohama War Crimes Trials following World War II. Several of those found guilty were executed and the remainder were imprisoned.\n\nIn September 2015, Russia conducted military operations within Syria in support of the Syrian government, bombing areas held by rebel groups, including the Syrian Turkmen Brigades, which operate close to the Syria–Turkey border. On November 24, 2015, a Russian Su-24 attack jet was shot down by a Turkish F-16C, and the two pilots ejected within Syrian territory controlled by Turkmen rebels. A commander of the Syrian Turkmen Brigades told Reuters that his forces opened fire on a pilot parachuting from the downed aircraft while attempting to land in non-rebel territory, and the group uploaded an image of rebel soldiers holding flaps of a NPP Zvezda K-36 ejection seat. Russian RIA later reported after retrieval that one of the pilots was killed by gunfire.\n"}
{"id": "31771499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31771499", "title": "Bank of Canada Act", "text": "Bank of Canada Act\n\nThe Bank of Canada Act is a statute that sets out the governance structure and powers of the Bank of Canada, which was created in 1934 as Canada's central bank.\n\nPrior to 1934, Canada had no central bank and fragmented control of the banking system.\n\nThe Canadian Bankers Association took the role of regulating the bank system since 1891 and the Bank of Montreal was the government's banker.\n\nIt was initially a private bank and became a government-owned corporation in 1938.\n\nAmendments to the act allowed the Bank of Canada to divide the capital of the bank into one hundred thousand shares of a value of fifty dollars each, which were issued to the Minister of Finance to be held on behalf of Her Majesty in right of Canada. .\n\nThe Bank of Canada is given considerable independence in the conduct of its business through provisions in the Act which set out its powers as permissive (\"may\") rather than instructive (\"shall\"), and through a provision that makes it extremely difficult to remove its governor during his or her seven-year term.\n\nThe Act requires all banknotes of the Canadian dollar to be approved by the Minister of Finance for \"form and material\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29153039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29153039", "title": "Centre for European Policy", "text": "Centre for European Policy\n\nThe Centre for European Policy (German: \"cep | Centrum für Europäische Politik\" ) (cep) is a German think tank whose task it is to evaluate the European Union’s draft laws and legislation on the basis of ordoliberal free market criteria. Established in 2006 under the umbrella of the Stiftung Ordnungspolitik foundation, the cep is based in Freiburg. It is headed by , chairman of the executive board of the Stiftung Ordnungspolitik and the Friedrich-August-von-Hayek Foundation. Members of the board of trustees include Roman Herzog, Leszek Balcerowicz, Frits Bolkestein, Udo Di Fabio, Jürgen Stark, Holger Steltzner and Hans Tietmeyer.\n\ncep works at the interface between science, politics and the public, and its aim is to consolidate, at EU level, policy which orients itself towards freedom and a free market economy while reducing regulation and red-tape to a minimum. As a centre of expertise, cep builds a bridge between EU politics and public awareness of EU politics in Germany. Through dialogue with academics, political decision-makers, the media and the public, cep develops strategies and concepts for the economic policy of the EU, monitors the EU’s most current political projects in a constructive and independent manner, and creates transparency and awareness for European policy and its impact on Germany.\n\ncep endeavours to inform the public about developments at EU level and the impact of EU policy, at the same time proposing concrete options for action. In addition, cep produces expert reports and analyses and advises politicians from all parties on EU economic policies. The academic foundation of the work are ordoliberal free market principles.\n\nThe foundation strives to maintain and further develop the ordoliberal tradition of the Freiburg School of Economics. This school of thought was founded by Walter Eucken, substantially refined by Friedrich August von Hayek and put into political practice by Ludwig Erhard, the Minister for Economic Affairs who helped ignite the economic miracle in post-war Germany.\n\nThe foundation drafts realizable policy options and advocates public discussion of ordoliberal concepts and ideas. To this end, it regularly organises lectures and panel discussion with well-known politicians, scientists and economists such as Angela Merkel, Günter Oettinger, Wolfgang Schäuble, Jürgen Stark and Jens Weidmann.\n\n"}
{"id": "6976469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6976469", "title": "Commission (remuneration)", "text": "Commission (remuneration)\n\nThe payment of commission as remuneration for services rendered or products sold is a common way to reward sales people. Payments often are calculated on the basis of a percentage of the goods sold, a way for firms to solve the principal–agent problem by attempting to realign employees' interests with those of the firm. Sales personnel are thus paid, in part or entirely, on the basis of products or services successfully sold rather than being paid by the hour, by attempted sales, or by any other measure. \n\nAlthough many types of commission systems exist, a common form is known as on-target earnings in which commission rates are based on the achievement of specific targets that have been agreed upon between management and the salesperson. Commissions are intended to create a strong incentive for employees to invest maximum effort into their work. \n\nOne of the most common means of attempting to align principal and agent interests is to design a contract with incentives that track agent performance. The principal-agent theory provides an explanation for the dissimilarities across the marketing firms in the types of compensation plans used by them, such as fixed salary, straight commission or a combination of\nboth.\n\nOften, a firm embracing a commission structure may not involve employees, but may solely establish themselves using independent contractors. An example in the US could be a real estate agent.\n\nA commission is not offered at most entities that receive donations or gifts. This is likely against the will of most donors. However, it is commonly argued that this would increase the motivation and efficiency of those requesting donations.\n\nIndustries, where a commission is commonly paid include car sales, property sales, insurance broking, and many other sales jobs. In the United States, a real estate broker who successfully sells property might collect a commission of 6% of the sale price, but one who makes no sales will collect no compensation whatsoever. \n\nIn 2011, California Governor Jerry Brown signed into law AB 1396 amending the California Labor Code requiring all employers who pay commissions to enter into written contracts with their employees regarding how commissions will be earned, computed and paid. The new law, effective on 1 January 2013, further states that commission excludes \"short-term productivity bonuses such as those paid to retail clerks\" and \"bonus and profit-sharing plans, unless there has been an offer by the employer to pay a fixed percentage of sales or profits as compensation for work to be performed.\"\n\nIn the financial services industry in the UK, rules set out in the Retail Distribution Review of December 31, 2012 mean that an Independent Financial Adviser can not take commission in the management of their client's wealth. As set out by the Financial Conduct Authority, advisers must now agree an upfront charging structure in advance to a client before advice is given.\n\nFor customers who do not want to pay a separate upfront fee, there is an option to have payment of the charges deducted from the investment held by the product provider. These new measures have been applauded by many, particularly in the financial services industry. This has led to changes in the direct to consumer, non-advised sector, with some companies now charging upfront fees to customers for financial products rather than taking commission on policies and investments.\n\n"}
{"id": "22283252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22283252", "title": "Conscience Fund", "text": "Conscience Fund\n\nThe Conscience Fund is one of three gift funds maintained by the United States Department of the Treasury and is used for voluntary contributions from people who have stolen from or defrauded the United States Government. The fund was created in 1811 and received US$5 during its first year and over US$5.7million during its first 175 years. The fund's name comes from a letter sent with a US$1500 check for previously misappropriated funds saying, \"Suppose we call this a contribution to the conscience fund and get it announced in the newspapers, and perhaps we will get some more\".\n\nDonations given to the Conscience Fund vary in size and reason. A 9 cent donation was made by a person from Massachusetts who had reused a 3 cent postage stamp, while a person from Jersey City sent US$40,000 in several installments for US$8,000 he had previously taken.\nAnother donor sent handmade quilts in an effort to settle her tax bill.\nMost gifts to the Conscience Fund are from anonymous donors. Others are forwarded by clergy who have received deathbed confessions. The sincerity of some donors' repentance can be uncertain, as demonstrated by a received letter reading,\n\"Dear Internal Revenue Service, I have not been able to sleep at night because I cheated on last year's income tax. Enclosed find a cashier's check for $1,000. If I still can't sleep, I'll send you the balance.\"\n\nDue to the fund's association with ill-gotten monies, some people object to having the funds they return associated with the fund. An example of this is when then-President Herbert Hoover and his Cabinet volunteered to reduce their pay in 1932 and instructed the Treasury to place the returned salary in the General Fund instead of the Conscience Fund.\n\nDonations to the Conscience Fund are not tax deductible, although gifts to the U.S. Treasury through the U.S. Fund are.\n\nThe Conscience Fund was the subject of a 2017 episode of the Futility Closet Podcast.\n"}
{"id": "51542285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51542285", "title": "Constitutional Court of Seychelles", "text": "Constitutional Court of Seychelles\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Seychelles is a specialized and independent court in Seychelles. The court's primary role is to protect the civil rights of the people of Seychelles. It is precided by any three judges of the Supreme Court.\n"}
{"id": "12626329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12626329", "title": "Copyzero", "text": "Copyzero\n\nCopyzero is a mechanism of protection of works by means of a qualified digital signature and a time mark. This mechanism lies in converting the work into digital format and appending the digital signature (which characterizes the author of the work) and a time mark (which indicates the existence of the work since given time) to the file.\n\nIn the Italian legal system, the digital signature has the same probative value as a certificate of SIAE (\"Società Italiana degli Autori ed Editori\", Italian society of authors and publishers) but a cost much smaller (0,36 Euro, cost of one time mark, rather than corresponding 110 euro for renewal of the certificate every 5 years).\n\nThe duration of a time mark is 4 years: in order to extend the period of validity it is sufficient to append a new time mark to the marked file before the old time mark expires. However, the expired mark can be rightfully used in a court ruling up to 10 years from the date it was appended.\n\nThe instruments used by Copyzero are the device of a qualified digital signature (a smart card obtainable at certification authorities like e.g. the Chamber of Commerce) and the corresponding reader (for sale at computer stores).\n\nTranslation of the article at the Italian Wikipedia.\n\n"}
{"id": "301789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301789", "title": "Death march", "text": "Death march\n\nA death march is a forced march of prisoners of war or other captives or deportees in which individuals are left to die along the way. It is distinguished in this way from simple prisoner transport via foot march. Death marches usually feature harsh physical labor and abuse, neglect of prisoner injury and illness, deliberate starvation and dehydration, humiliation and torture, and execution of those unable to keep up the marching pace. The march may end at a prisoner-of-war camp or internment camp, or it may continue until all the prisoners are dead (a form of \"execution by labor\", as seen in the Armenian genocide among other examples).\n\nThe signing of the Fourth Geneva Convention declared death marches a form of war crime.\n\n\nDuring WWII, death marches of POWs occurred in both Nazi-Occupied Europe and the Japanese Empire. Death marches of Jews were common in the later stages of The Holocaust as the Allies closed in on concentration camps in occupied Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17987479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17987479", "title": "Dhandhuka (Lok Sabha constituency)", "text": "Dhandhuka (Lok Sabha constituency)\n\nDhandhuka was a Lok Sabha parliamentary constituency in Ahmedabad district of Gujarat, India. With the implementation of the delimitation of parliamentary constituencies in 2008, it ceased to exist.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1707190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1707190", "title": "European Public Prosecutor", "text": "European Public Prosecutor\n\nThe European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO) is an independent body of the European Union (EU) to be established under the Treaty of Lisbon between 22 of the 28 members of the EU following the method of enhanced cooperation.. It will be based in Luxembourg alongside the European Court of Justice (ECJ) and the European Court of Auditors (ECA).\n\nThe role of the EPPO is to investigate and prosecute fraud against the EU budget and other crimes against the EU's financial interests including fraud concerning EU funds of over €10,000 and cross-border VAT fraud cases involving damages above €10 million. Previously only national authorities could investigate and prosecute these crimes and could not act beyond their borders. OLAF, Eurojust and Europol similarly had no ability to act. The body is intended to be decentralized, based around European Delegated Prosecutors located in each Member State. The central office will have a European Chief Prosecutor supported by 20 European Prosecutors, technical and investigatory staff. The EPPO may request a suspect's arrest, but this must be confirmed by the relevant national authority.\n\nThe European Commission proposed a regulation on the establishment of a Public Procecutor's Office on 17 July 2013, based on a mandate in the Treaty of Lisbon to set up such an office. However, on 7 February 2017 the Council concluded that no consensus existed among the member states on the proposed regulation. As a result, 17 EU member states (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain) requested on 14 February 2017 that the proposal be referred to the European Council for their consideration. After no agreement was reached at the by the European Council on 9 March 2017, 16 members states (the prior 17 less Austria, Estonia and Latvia, plus Cyprus and Portugal) notified the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on 3 April 2017 that they would proceed with establishing the EPPO by the use of enhanced cooperation. This was done under , which allows for a simplified enhanced cooperation procedure which does not require authorization from the Council to proceed. The participating member states agreed on the legislative text to establish the EPPO on 8 June. By this point, Latvia and Estonia had begun participating in the enhanced cooperation procedure. The proposal was approved by the European Parliament on 5 October 2017, and on 12 October 2017 the regulation was given final approval by the 20 participating states, which had grown to include Austria and Italy. The EPPO will not have authority to begin investigating or prosecuting crimes until a decision of Commission approves this, which per the terms of the Regulation cannot take place until 3 years after the entry into force of the Regulation in November 2017.\n\n22 EU members participate in the enhanced cooperation. The original regulation was joined by 20 member states. Other EU members, apart from Denmark which has an opt-out from the area of freedom, security and justice (AFSJ), are permitted to join subsequently.\n\nFollowing the Rutte III Cabinet taking office the Netherlands officially requested to join EPPO on 14 May 2018. Their participation was approved by the Commission on 1 August 2018. Malta requested to join on 14 June 2018, and their participation was approved on 7 August 2018.\n\n\n\nThe Public Prosecutor was inserted as article 86 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union by the Treaty of Lisbon. The article states the following:\n\n\n\nIt was strongly backed by the former Commissioner for Justice, Freedom and Security, Franco Frattini as part of plans to strengthen the Eurojust agency. Frattini stated in August 2007 that he is \"convinced that Europe will have its general prosecutor in the future\" and suggested that the Commission was just waiting for the treaty to come into force. He stated that a prosecutor \"could prove useful\" in areas \"where important European interests are at stake\", namely in dealing with financial crime, fraud and counterfeiting at European level.\n\nThe firm, in late 2007, the Lisbon Treaty by all Member States of the European Union, which refers explicitly to the idea of creating a European Public Prosecutor to combat crimes affecting the financial interests of the Union and, where appropriate, to combat serious crime with cross-border dimension, resulted in the conclusion of an International Seminar in Madrid to study the new institution and the possibilities of its implementation. The Seminar was called by the Spanish Attorney General Cándido Conde-Pumpido, and led by Prosecutors Jorge Espina and Isabel Vicente Carbajosa. The presentations, discussions and conclusions of the meeting were collected in a book, \"The future European Public Prosecutor's Office\", in English and Spanish, and have served to date guide to the proposals and jobs that have been carried out on the implementation of this Institution. \n\nFollowing the short selling of certain euro-zone financial products in 2009 and 10, Spain proposed the EU enact the European Public Prosecutor provision so the post could co-ordinate legal action in retaliation. \"Spain wants the European Union to use a planned public prosecutor's office for the region to protect the euro currency against speculators\", Spanish attorney general Cándido Conde-Pumpido said in March 2010.\nIn March 2010 Eurojust cited the European Public Prosecutor's Office as a potential solution to the problem of cross border crime in the EU. Despite opposition from some member states seeing it as impinging on their sovereignty (partly due to the necessary harmonisation of legal codes) Eurojust set up a working group to study the idea.\n\nThe Spanish Attorney General Cándido Conde-Pumpido, officially launched in Brussels, in March 2010, on Spanish Presidency draft for the implementation of the European Prosecutor, pursuant to the provision of Article 86 of the Treaty of Lisbon. Conde-Pumpido, speaking with the President of the Commission of Justice and Home Affairs of the European Parliament, Juan Fernando López Aguilar, and the Spanish State Secretary for the European Union (EU), Diego Lopez Garrido, presented a technical project, developed from the conclusions of the International Conference convened by the Spanish Prosecutor in 2008 and 2009, which would be discussed later in the Luxembourg Council.\n\nThe creation of this institution was subsequently discussed, according to the Spanish proposal, by the meeting of Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs held in Luxembourg on 27 April 2010, but its implementation was suspended until a new discussion in 2013.\n\nOn 21 and 22 September 2010, Eurojust, in co-operation with the Belgian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, held a strategic seminar, \"Eurojust and the Lisbon Treaty: towards more effective action\", \"Establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office from Eurojust?\", at the College of Europe in Bruges, Belgium.\n\nThe goals of the seminar were the development of Eurojust in light of the Lisbon Treaty and the possible establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office from Eurojust under Article 86 TFEU.\n\nThe European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said on 12 September 2012 in his speech to the European Parliament on the state of the Union, the next presentation of a proposal for the creation of a European Public Prosecutor, based on \"commitment to uphold the rule of law \".\n\nOn 17 July 2013 the European Commission, at the initiative of Vice-President Viviane Reding and Commissioner Algirdas Semeta, proposed a regulation for the establishment of a, European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO).\n\nThe proposal will now be discussed by the representatives of the EU Member States' experts under the specific procedure set by Article 86 of the Treaty. The following 3 main options may be considered within the range of options concerning the scope of the initiative to tackle offences against PIF (protection of financial interests):\nBesides these 3 options regarding scope, the Commission will need to consider a series of significant legal, institutional and organisational matters (relationship with Eurojust, OLAF, national authorities, judicial review) which could be formulated as sub-options. Moreover, particular procedural issues (EP involvement, legislative process, what if unanimity requirements are not met, enhanced co-operation with which member States, etc.) should be considered in these options. In accordance with Article 86 the proposal could include one or more regulations covering different aspects of the setting up of an EPPO. Soft law instruments are not relevant as legislative measures are needed to address criminal offences and law enforcement.\n\nLikely impacts will include a more effective, dissuasive and equivalent criminal law protection of the Union's financial interests. Irregularities affecting the European budget may reach or exceed 1 Billion Euro per year, from which around 280 Million Euro could be suspected EU fraud cases to be investigated within the EPPO's competence. This amount could be significantly reduced if the EPPO were to direct investigations and prosecutions throughout the EU, acting on all cases of PIF offences. Moreover, economies of scale might be achieved for the benefit of justice budgets of Member States, due to a streamlining of the judicial procedures involving EU financial interests across the EU.\n\nDepending on how the relationship between the EPPO and the national authorities will be defined, the impact will be primarily on national police and judicial authorities, which will certainly have to cope with the new framework for investigations and prosecutions ordered by the EPPO. The administrative burden depends on the new relations established between the EPPO and the national authorities and whether the initiative will impose new information obligations on Member States.\n\nPreparatory work, in particular the 2001 Green paper on the establishment of a European Prosecutor, will be taken into consideration. Existing studies and evaluations, in particular the Criminal Justice Systems Study, the Euroneeds Study, the Pretrial investigative model rules, the Spanish Presidency Report, officially launched in Brussels in March 2010, etc. and studies regarding Eurojust, will provide valuable input.\n\nIn November 2013 the Commission indicated its intention to go ahead with the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor, despite the opposition of 14 EU national parliaments. The European Parliament has subsequently voted in favour of the Commission's proposal to set up the office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "822035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=822035", "title": "Extended warranty", "text": "Extended warranty\n\nAn extended warranty, sometimes called a service agreement, a service contract, or a maintenance agreement, is a prolonged warranty offered to consumers in addition to the standard warranty on new items. The extended warranty may be offered by the warranty administrator, the retailer or the manufacturer. Extended warranties cost extra and for a percentage of the item's retail price. Occasionally, some extended warranties that are purchased for multiple years state in writing that during the first year, the consumer must still deal with the manufacturer in the occurrence of malfunction. Thus, what is often promoted as a five-year extended guarantee, for example, is actually only a four-year guarantee.\n\nExtended warranties have terms and conditions which may not match the original terms and conditions. For example, these may not cover anything other than mechanical failure from normal usage. Exclusions may include commercial use, \"acts of God\", owner abuse, and malicious destruction. They may also exclude parts that normally wear out such as tires and lubrication on a vehicle.\n\nThese types of warranties are provided for various products, but automobiles and electronics are common examples. Warranties which are sold through retailers such as Best Buy may include significant commission for the retailer as a result of reverse competition. For instance, an auto warranty from a car dealership may be subcontracted and vehicle repairs may be at a lower rate which could compromise the quality of service. At the time of repair, out-of-pocket expenses may be charged for unexpected services provided outside of the warranty terms or uncovered parts.\n\nAn extended warranty is coverage for electrical or mechanical breakdown. It may or may not cover peripheral items, wear and tear, damage by computer viruses, re-gassing, normal maintenance, accidental damage, or any consequential loss. Most state insurance regulators have approved the inclusion of normal wear and tear, accidental damage from handling, rental car and towing, power surge and other coverages in addition to the standard coverage for defects in materials and workmanship. The indemnity is to cover the cost of repair and may include replacement if deemed uneconomic to repair. It is important for consumers to read and understand the terms and conditions offered at the point of sale. In retail consumer electronics, extended warranties cost 20% to 30% of the price, and give sales associates up to 15% commission at some retailers.\n\nConsumer advocate groups, such as the non-profit Consumers Union, advise against purchasing extended warranties unless they can be purchased at manufacturers cost. David Butler of the Consumers Union says, \"The extended warranty is definitely in the best interest of the company because if the product breaks down they want you to be satisfied with it and buy another one when the time comes, but isn't often in the best interest of the consumer unless it can be purchased at cost with no or very little markup.\" Consumers Union says only two products deserve extended warranty consideration: projection TVs and digital cameras, as both are expensive to repair and require frequent repairs.\n\nAn extended auto warranty is a service contract between the owner of a vehicle and an auto warranty provider, the latter which may be either the original manufacturer or a third party. All new cars come with a warranty that cover repairs for a certain period of time and a certain number of miles, such as 3 years and 36,000 miles. Auto warranties do not generally cover vandalism or theft, dings or dents, road salt damage, environmental or natural disaster-related damage. car wash damage, or normal routine maintenance.\n\nAt the time of sale, auto dealers may sell car buyers an extended warranty offered by the manufacturer. When that time period runs out, consumers have the option to purchase an extended auto warranty from a third-party, which is not an extension of the terms and coverages provided in the original car manufacturer’s warranty, rather it is a new contract provided a third-party provider. According to the Automobile Protection Association (APA), which publishes the \"Lemon-Aid Car Buyer’s Guides\", extended warranties are a good idea if they cover items likely to break down within the warranty period. Extended auto warranties often offer other perks not included in a general factory warranty, such as trip interruption insurance and roadside assistance.\n\nBased upon the Québec civil code and the \"Loi sur la protection du consommateur\" every merchant is responsible to uphold the legal guarantee of a product. This legal guarantee protects the consumer from: purposefully hidden malfunctions, defaults that could not be readily identified at the moment of purchase, the guarantee that the item purchased can be used for its stated uses and finally guarantees a reasonable life expectancy based on the price paid. This guarantee survives even when the initial purchaser sells his goods to another person. A merchant cannot ask a consumer to pay any fees or shipping charges in order to be eligible to receive their legal guarantee. The office for the protection of consumers does not take a particular stance towards extended warranties. However, they recommend that consumers should be vigilant and question themselves whether the warranty really adds anything to the already applicable legal warranty. Finally they point out that the number of consumers who go to court against merchants in order for them to apply the legal warranty is almost proportional to the number of consumers who take legal means against a merchant for failing to respect extended warranties they have sold.\n\nIn the United States, extended warranties are regulated by many state insurance commissioners as \"service contracts.\" Service contracts can cover automobiles, consumer goods (such as appliances, electronics, lawn equipment, etc...) and homes. The regulatory structure requires licensure or registration of the warranty providers, financial solvency regulation, and service contract consumer disclosures. Service warranty \"providers\" apply for licensure or registration, and then may sell their products, usually at the point of sale of the product, for example at the car dealership, or at the retail consumer electronics store, but some companies such as After, Inc, SquareTrade, Warranty Direct and MotorEasy also sell directly to consumers. In the United States, a type of extended warranty called vehicle service contracts are typically regulated by the states as insurance. In July 2010, California issued a cease and desist letter to several corporations which were selling the insurance illegally in the state; the corporations contended that it was not insurance because the contracts required that certain additives be used.\n\nThe Service Contract Industry Council was founded by Fredrick D. Schaufeld in 1988 and is a trade association of members of the industry.\n\nThe extended warranty market has been subject to several investigations. In 2002 the Office of Fair Trading decided that self-regulation of the industry had failed and passed the case onto the Competition Commission. This concluded that the market was not acting in the interests of consumers. The Citizens Advice Bureau have expressed concerns about extended warranties being mis-sold. The Office of Fair trading investigated the extended warranty market again and published a market review in 2012. They said that the UK market is worth an estimated £1billion a year. Out of this £1billion they estimate 75% of people do not compare prices before buying an extended warranty. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4820943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4820943", "title": "Glossary of patent law terms", "text": "Glossary of patent law terms\n\nThis is a list of legal terms relating to patents. A patent is not a right to practice or use the invention, but a territorial right to exclude others from commercially exploiting the invention, granted to an inventor or his successor in rights in exchange to a public disclosure of the invention.\n\nThe reply of an applicant to an office action must be made within a prescribed time limit. If no reply is received within the time period, the application may be considered, depending on the jurisdiction, as abandoned or deemed to be withdrawn, and, therefore, no longer pending.\n\nA fee to be paid to maintain a patent or a patent application in force. Also called \"maintenance fee\" or \"renewal fee\".\n\nAn application for a patent, or patent application, is a request by a person or company to the competent authority (usually a patent office) to grant him a patent. By extension, a patent application also refers to the content of the document which that person or company filed to initiate the application process. This document usually contains a description of the invention and at least one claim used to define the sought scope of protection.\n\nIn United States patent law, an equitable estoppel barring a patent's seller (assignor) from attacking the patent's validity if he/she is found to have infringed that patent later.\n\nIn outdated German patent law, the second reading, or publication, of a patent application.\n\nA form of inventor's recognition formerly available in the Soviet Union and a number of Socialist countries. Also called \"inventor's certificate\".\n\nU.K. law concept according to which, if \"the extent of the monopoly claimed [in a patent] exceeds the technical contribution to the art made by the invention as described in the specification\", the patent may be revoked on the ground of insufficiency of disclosure. The concept stems from the decision \"Biogen v. Medeva\", issued by the House of Lords on 31 October 1996.\n\nSee research exemption.\n\nUnder German patent law, a procedure consisting in deriving a utility model (German: \"Gebrauchsmuster\") from a pending patent application. Also called \"derivation\". The corresponding German term is \"\".\n\nThe practice of a patent holding company buying a patent, offering a license to its members and then selling or donating the patent after a certain period of time.\n\nIn the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), \"Chapter I\" refers to the prosecution procedure when no demand under is made. The states selected under Chapter I by the applicant are called \"designated States\".\n\nIn the PCT, \"Chapter II\" refers to the prosecution procedure when a demand under is made. An international preliminary examination is conducted in this case. The demand indicates the Contracting State or States in which the applicant intends to use the results of the international preliminary examination (\"elected States\").\n\nA noun phrase defining the extent of the protection conferred by a patent, or the extent of protection sought in a patent application.\n\nA search done on issued patents or on pending patent applications to determine if a product or process infringes any of the claims of the issued patents or pending patent applications. These searches and opinions are also called freedom-to-operate searches and opinions. See Patent infringement.\n\nA legal concept used notably when assessing whether an invention involves an inventive step and whether the disclosure of the invention is sufficiently clear and complete for a skilled person in the art to be able to carry out the invention. The common general knowledge \"is the common knowledge in the field to which the invention relates.\" The information \"must be generally known and generally regarded as a good basis for further action by the bulk of those engaged in that art before it becomes part of their common stock of knowledge relating to the art, and so part of the common general knowledge.\"\n\nRegarding the inventive step assessment, \"[if] information is part of the common general knowledge then it forms part of the stock of knowledge which will inform and guide the skilled person's approach to the problem from the outset. It may, for example, affect the steps it will be obvious for him to take, including the nature and extent of any literature search.\"\n\nUnder European practice, \"the common general knowledge of the person skilled in the art is, as a general rule, established on the basis of encyclopaedias, textbooks and the like\". Exceptionally however, common general knowledge may also be established on the basis of the content of patent specifications \"and in particular when a series of patent specifications provides a consistent picture that a particular technical procedure was generally known and belonged to the common general knowledge in the art at the relevant date\".\n\nUsing compulsory licenses, a government may force a patent proprietor to grant use to the state or others. Usually, the holder does receive some royalties, either set by law or determined through some form of arbitration.\n\nUnder United States law, a type of continuing application in which the applicant adds subject-matter not disclosed in the parent application, but repeats substantial portion of the parent's specification, and shares at least one inventor with the parent application. See continuing patent application.\n\nIn United States law, an active patent application, prior to final action, may give rise to additional applications for additional claims carrying the priority date of the original application. With the move to published applications, this has become a common way of producing submarine patents.\n\nUnder European patent practice, a legal approach, now abandoned by the European Patent Office (EPO), for assessing whether an invention was patentable. The approach consisted in establishing whether the \"contribution to the art\" made by the invention was only in a field excluded from patentability by and, if so, the application could be refused. The EPO now applies the sometimes named \"any hardware\" or \"any technical means\" approach, notably formulated in EPO Board of Appeal decisions T 258/03 (Auction Method/Hitachi) and T 424/03 (Microsoft).\n\nA form of indirect infringement.\n\nA declaration obtained from a court that one's actions do not infringe a particular patent. An action for a declaration of non-infringement may be brought before a court as a preventive measure prior to being sued by a patent proprietor, for example if an infringement suit is believed to be imminent.\n\nA practice consisting in \"obtaining patents to stake [one's] claim to an area of technology in hopes of preventing other companies from suing them.\" See also defensive patent aggregation.\n\nA publication intended to prevent the grant of a patent to a competitor by placing information in the public domain.\n\nAn implicit cross license where the licensor can terminate a patent license if the licensee turns around and sues the licensor for infringing a patent.\n\nA letter sent to a company \"seeking royalties and threatening legal action for patent infringement.\" Also called a \"threat letter\".\n\nA request to subject an international application to an international preliminary examination under Chapter II of the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT).\n\nA claim comprising all the features of another claim.\n\nThe act of developing an alternative apparatus or method (which may in itself also be a patentable invention), that does not infringe upon an issued patent. Also used as a noun.\n\nUnder the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), a national patent office of or acting for a State designated by the applicant under Chapter I of the PCT. See also \"Chapter I\" above.\n\nIn a claim, words identifying subject-matter that is not claimed or, by extension, an amendment consisting in limiting a claim by introducing therein a negative technical feature.\n\nIn U.S. patent law, a form of patent infringement liability that occurs when multiple actors are involved in carrying out the claimed infringement of a method patent and no single accused infringer has performed all of the steps of the method.\n\nA type of patent application which contains matter from a previously-filed application. Also referred to simply as \"divisional application\".\n\nA legal rule that allows a court to hold a party liable for patent infringement even though the infringing device or process does not fall within the literal scope of a patent claim, but nevertheless is equivalent to the claimed invention.\n\nThe protection of one single invention by two patents usually owned by the same proprietor.\n\nAt the European Patent Office, the application documents serving as the basis for the publication of the granted patent.\n\nUnder the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), a national patent office of or acting for a State elected by the applicant under Chapter II of the PCT. See also \"Chapter II\" above.\n\nIn a patent or patent application, \"a specific combination of features or a specific mode of carrying out the invention, by contrast to a more abstract definition of features which can be carried out in more than one way.\"\n\nA patent claiming an invention that is required to implement a given industry standard.\n\nVarious legal, business and technological strategies by which patentees extend or attempt to extend the patent protection for their products.\n\nA legal concept according to which intellectual property (IP) rights, such as patent rights, in a product are exhausted by its sale. The concept of national exhaustion (exhaustion by sale in the domestic market), which is recognized in most countries around the world, is distinguished from the concept of regional or international exhaustion (exhaustion by sale in the domestic market), which is recognized in some countries but not in others.\n\nAccording to USPTO patent rules, the examination support document (ESD) is a document submitted by an applicant that lists prior art and identifies how the prior art applies to the claims in a pending patent application.\n\nA type of licensing typically used during standardisation processes. Also abbreviated \"FRAND\".\n\nA provision in a patent license that limits the scope of what the patent owner authorizes a manufacturing licensee (that is, a licensee that manufactures a patented product or performs a patented process) to do in relation to the patent, by specifying a defined field of permissible operation or specifying fields from which the licensee is excluded.\n\nThe special folder type holding a U.S. patent application. The \"file wrapper\" was a large three section binder that interlineated to close into one large \"wrapper.\" These paper File wrappers were fully digitized as of June 3, 2003 and are now called Image File Wrappers (IFW).\n\nThe filing date of a patent application is the date the patent application was filed in one or more patent offices, i.e. the date on which that application is legally accepted at the patent office. That date is typically the date on which the documents are deposited at the office, but may be later if there are defects in the documents. See also Priority right.\n\nIn the United States, if a patent application is mailed to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) by Express Mail, Post Office to Addressee, then the date the application was deposited in the post office is the filing date.\n\nSee Exhaustion of rights.\n\nA legal concept in which the right to a patent for an invention is determined by the first person to file for a patent to protect that invention, \"cf. First to invent.\n\nA legal concept in which the right to a patent for an invention is determined by the first person to make that invention, \"cf. First to file.\n\nA test for patentability formerly used by the United States Federal Courts.\n\nAn authorization granted by a governmental authority to an applicant to apply for a patent in a country outside its own country. See also Patent application#Security issues.\n\nA freedom-to-operate search is a search aimed at establishing whether a product or process is covered by patent rights, including patent and patent applications. If it does, commercially exploiting the product or process may lead to patent infringement. Freedom-to-operate analyses and opinions are aimed at determining the risk of patent infringement in that respect. These searches and opinions are also called clearance searches and opinions.\n\nSee Second medical use.\n\nA utility model in German and Austrian laws.\n\nA claim that does not comprise the features of any other claim.\n\nWhen a patent is infringed by some party other than the one actually directly engaged in the infringement of the invention, but the original party is the cause of the infringement. For instance, when a third party supplies a product which is intended to be used, or can only be reasonably used or worked upon to make the device claimed in a patent. In some jurisdictions, forms of indirect infringements include \"contributory infringement\" and \"induced infringement\".\n\nA form of indirect infringement.\n\nA requirement of many patent systems, requiring that an invention be capable of industrial applicability in order for a patent to be granted for that invention.\n\nIn United States patent law, a submission of relevant background art or information to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) by an applicant for a patent during patent prosecution.\n\nA type of patent in some countries used for inventions that have a short commercial life or that offers a comparatively small advance over existing technology. It often has a shorter term of protection, for example 8 years instead of 20 in Australia. See also utility model and petty patent.\n\nUnder U.S. patent law, proceedings to decide who is entitled to the grant of a patent for an invention.\n\nUnder European practice, an amendment to a claim resulting in \"an undisclosed combination of selected features lying somewhere between an originally broad disclosure and a more limited specific disclosure\".\n\nA patent application filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT). Also called \"PCT application\".\n\nAn examination report prepared under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT).\n\nAn invalidity opinion, also called \"validity opinion\", is a legal opinion provided by an attorney on how a court might rule on the validity of an issued patent. Invalidity opinions are often sought prior to patent litigation. See Patent infringement.\n\nA confidential document written by a scientist or engineer for use by a company's patent department, or by an external patent attorney, to determine whether patent protection should be sought for the described invention.\n\nA firm providing services to inventors to help them develop or market their inventions.\n\nA patentability requirement according to which an invention should be sufficiently inventive, i.e. non-obvious, in order to be patented.\n\nThe actual devisor of an invention that is the subject of a patent. The inventor's employer is not the inventor. More than one inventor can be named on a patent.\n\nSee author’s certificate.\n\nA published, unexamined Japanese patent application.\n\nAn examined and approved Japanese patent application.\n\nIn United States patent law, one of the available applicant's status, along with the \"small entity\" status and the \"micro entity\" status.\n\nAn old term for a patent, sometimes used in reference to a bound formal copy of a patent provided by the USPTO to the inventor upon a patent's issue.\n\nA contract wherein a party (the \"licensor\") grants to another party (the \"licensee\") the authorization to use an invention which is subject to a patent, generally in exchange of a financial compensation, the royalties.\n\nA criterion in United States patent law, according to which a claimed process is patent-eligible (under § 101) if: (1) it is tied to a particular machine or apparatus, or (2) it transforms a particular article into a different state or thing. See also: \"in re Bilski\".\n\nA fee to be paid to maintain a patent or a patent application in force. Also called \"annuity fee\" or \"renewal fee\".\n\nA pre-trial hearing in the United States court system during which a judge hears testimony from both parties on the appropriate meanings of the relevant key words used in the claims of a patent, the infringement of which is alleged by the plaintiff.\n\nIn United States patent law, an Information Disclosure Statement (IDS) reference to a communication with a patenting authority (e.g. office action response, or notice of allowance) in a related patent application. Based on the McKesson v. Bridge Medical decision where inequitable conduct was found where the applicant failed to notify the USPTO of such references. See also Inequitable conduct.\n\nIn United States patent law, an IDS reference to a court document (e.g. memorandum opinion, or a court order) pertaining to a litigation involving an application or a related patent/application. Based on the Marlow Industries, Inc. v. Igloo Products Corp. decision where the court found that the applicant had a duty to notify the USPTO of such references. See also Inequitable conduct.\n\nIn United States patent law, a patent may notably claim a process or method. The claim gives right to exclude performance of the process or method, regardless of the equipment or technology used to do so.\n\nSee \"Small entity status\" below.\n\nThe prosecution phase wherein an international application filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) becomes subject to examination at a national level. In the United States, the term \"national stage\" is used instead—see .\n\nA patentability requirement according to which an invention should not be obvious to a \"person having ordinary skill in the art\", in order to be patented.\n\nAny technical document that is neither a patent nor a patent application and that is submitted by a party—such as an applicant, an opponent, or a third party—or cited by an examiner during patent prosecution. The non-patent literature includes especially scientific papers used as prior art to show that an invention claimed in a patent or patent application was known or obvious before the filing of the application. Also abbreviated \"NPL\".\n\nA United States patent application that is not a provisional application. The term arose in 1995 to distinguish what were at the time \"normal\" patent applications from the newly established provisional applications. A complete non-provisional application differs from a provisional in that a non-provisional must contain at least one claim and is to be examined. A non-provisional application may also claim priority to a prior filed application, which is not permitted with provisional applications.\n\nA patentability requirement according to which an invention is not patentable if it was already known before the date of filing.\n\nLawsuit initiated by a party requesting a patent to be declared invalid, i.e. to be revoked. Also called \"revocation action\".\n\nIn the so-called \"problem-solution approach\" applied by the European Patent Office (EPO) to assess whether a claimed invention involves an inventive step (), the problem that the notional skilled person is tasked with solving. If the skilled person, starting from the closest prior art and faced with the objective technical problem, would have arrived, without exercising any inventive skill, at the claimed invention, then the claimed invention is regarded as being obvious, i.e. the claimed invention does not involve an inventive step.\n\nA formal report from a Patent Office examiner to an inventor or attorney detailing which claims in a patent application were allowed for later issue (publication) in a patent and which claims were rejected. The examiner gives reasons for allowance or rejection.\n\nA concept of U.S. law in which the grant of a patent is prevented if the invention that is the subject of the patent application was on sale more than one year prior to the priority date.\n\nProceedings in which a third party opposes the grant of a patent in an attempt to prevent that grant, or have the patent revoked. Opposition proceedings may be pre- or post-grant.\n\nA territorial right to prevent others from commercially exploiting an invention, granted to an inventor or his successor in rights in exchange for the public disclosure of the invention. A patent is regarded as a specific type of intellectual property right, and is granted for a limited period of time, the term of the patent.\n\nA patent ambush occurs when a member of a standard-setting organization withholds information, during participation in development and setting a standard, about a patent that the member or the member's company owns, has pending, or intends to file, which is relevant to the standard, and subsequently the company asserts that a patent is infringed by use of the standard as adopted.\n\nThe Patent Application Locating and Monitoring System (PALM) is used to support the Reexamination process inside the USPTO. Reexamination is the examination of a \"granted\" patent, which can result in the revocation of that patent. The PALM system is used with both Image File Wrappers and paper File Wrappers. See Manual of Patent Examination and Procedure, Section 2235.\n\nFormerly, in United States patent law, a legal document filed with the United States Patent Office. Caveats were discontinued in 1909. A caveat was like a patent application with a description of an invention and drawings, but without claims. It was an official notice of intention to file a patent application at a later date.\n\nClassification of patents in technological areas for convenient retrieval during prior art searches.\n\nTechnical drawing in a patent application, that illustrates the invention. It may be required by law to be in a particular form.\n\nA group of patents related by a common priority claim.\n\nPatenting every possible way of doing something.\n\nCommercially exploiting an invention claimed in a patent without permission of the patentee.\n\nIn United States patent law, an affirmative defense used in patent litigation after the defendant has been found to have infringed a patent.\n\nA miniature model that shows how an invention works.\n\nThe generation of revenue or the attempt to generate revenue by a person or company by selling or licensing the patents it owns.\n\nA warning that a patent application has been filed for an invention integrated in a product. The warning indicates that the applicant(s) may be entitled to some rights even if a patent has not been granted yet, or that the applicant(s) will be entitled to some rights once a patent is granted.\n\nA consortium of at least two companies agreeing to cross-license patents and other IP rights relating to a particular technology.\n\nA collection of patents owned by a single entity, such as an individual or corporation.\n\nA dense web of overlapping intellectual property rights that a company must navigate through in order to commercialize new technology.\n\nA person or company who enforces patent rights against accused infringers in an attempt to collect licensing fees, but does not manufacture products or supply services based upon the patents in question. Also called a patent assertion entity (PAE) or non practicing entity (NPE).\n\nA process for monitoring newly issued patents on a periodic basis to see if any of these patents might be of interest.\n\nA set of substantive requirements for a patent to be granted. An invention satisfying these requirements is said to be patentable.\n\nAn opinion as to whether an invention might be patentable. Such an opinion may be established by a patent attorney to assist an inventor or company into deciding whether to file a patent application.\n\nPatent systems exclude certain areas from the grant of patents. Material not so excluded is known as patentable subject matter.\n\nOne to whom a patent was granted. Also called \"patent holder\" or \"patent proprietor\".\n\nA deal under which a company holding a patent on a drug pays a generic manufacturer to delay its launch of a cheap copy of the drug.\n\nA patent application filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT). Also called \"international application\".\n\nA procedural scheme launched in 2014 by the European Patent Office (EPO). The scheme consists in allowing an applicant filing a PCT application claiming priority from an earlier application already searched by the EPO to reply –at the time of filing the PCT application– to any objections raised in the search opinion drawn up for the priority application.\n\nA notional person having typical knowledge of a particular field or art, used such as to assess whether an invention is nonobvious or whether the specification of the patent enables one to practice what is claimed.\n\nA United States patent law procedure that requests the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to accelerate a patent's prosecution, based on a showing that certain conditions are met. For example, if the inventor is old or sick, or the field of invention is a favored area of science that significantly enriches people's lives, The U.S. PTO may allow such a petition.\n\nPhrase sometimes used to refer to utility models and \"Gebrauchsmuster\", which are specific forms of patents for inventions usually granted for a shorter term, i.e. mostly 6 or 10 years instead of 20 years. In some jurisdictions, the patentability criteria applicable to petty patents are less stringent than those applicable to 20-year patents. See also innovation patent.\n\nIn the United States, an abbreviation for \"person having ordinary skill in the art\".\n\nPejorative term. Generally refers to the willful infringement of a patent. May also be applied to the vigorous enforcement of a patent.\n\nPre-grant Publication (PGpub) is the procedure under 35 U.S.C. Section 122(b) requiring the publication of most United States patent applications 18 months after their filing dates. This procedure was first enacted in the 1999 American Inventors Protection Act.\n\nMaterial publicly available prior to the priority date of an application which may anticipate the subject of and prevent the grant of a patent.\n\nThe priority right is a right to claim priority from an earlier application. Claiming priority gives the later filed application a priority date of the filing date of the earlier application.\n\nUnder the case law and practice of the European Patent Office (EPO), a systematic approach to assess whether an invention involves an inventive step. See Inventive step under the European Patent Convention (EPC).\n\nIn certain states, most notably the United States, actions during prosecution can estop a party from certain later actions or assertions.\n\nIn United States patent law, a legal document filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) that establishes an early filing date, but which does not mature into an issued patent unless the applicant files a regular patent application within one year. See also Non-provisional patent application.\n\nThe rights conferred to a published patent application, i.e. the rights conferred before the patent is granted. See also U.S. patent law, 35 USC 154(d). Under the European Patent Convention,\n\nThe process of establishing patent infringement involves \"reading\" a claim onto the technology of interest. If all of the claim's elements are found in the technology, the claim is said to \"read on\" the technology; if a single element from the claim is missing from the technology, the claim does not literally read on the technology and the technology does not infringe the patent with respect to that claim. Also, the process of contesting or invalidating a patent can involve showing that the claim reads on prior art, i.e., the claim's elements are found in the prior art.\n\nA type of licensing typically used during standardisation processes. Also abbreviated \"RAND\".\n\nIn United States patent law, making or performing an invention (actual reduction to practice) or filing a patent application describing how to make and use an invention (constructive reduction to practice). Important for determining which party is \"first to invent\".\n\nThe examination of a granted patent, which can result in the revocation of that patent.\n\nA single patent covering a set of countries. As of 2012, the only true regional patent covering more than two countries appears to be the OAPI patent. The European patent, the Eurasian patent, and the ARIPO patent each effectively lead, once granted, to a bundle of national patents for which there might be separate translation requirements (for example in the European Patent Convention), maintenance fees, durations of protection (for example with ARIPO) and separate jurisdiction exist (a patent invalidated in one country might still be valid in others). The unitary patent for Switzerland and Liechtenstein can also be regarded as a regional patent with a truly unitary effect. See also unitary patent.\n\nThe prosecution phase wherein an international application filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) becomes subject to examination at a regional level. There are four regional patent treaties: the European Patent Convention, the Eurasian Patent Convention, the Bangui Agreement (see African Intellectual Property Organization or OAPI), and the Harare Protocol (see African Regional Intellectual Property Organization or ARIPO). See also National phase.\n\nA type of patent that takes effect, even if the substantial requirements (e.g. regarding novelty) have not been fulfilled. The Belgian, Dutch and French patents are examples of registration patents.\n\nIn the United States, to have patent claims \"rejected\" in a patent application means that the subject matter as claimed is considered by the patent examiner to be unpatentable. A final Office action based on rejection of claims is subject to review by the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences (BPAI). cf Objections, supra.\n\nIn some legislations, an exemption to the rights conferred by patents, pursuant to which performing research and tests for preparing regulatory approval does not constitute infringement for a limited term before the end of patent term.\n\nIn the European Patent Convention, a means of redress following a loss of right due to the non-observance of a time limit in spite of all due care.\n\nLawsuit initiated by a party requesting a patent to be declared invalid, i.e. to be revoked. Also called \"nullity action\".\n\nIn United States patent law, an obviousness rejection based on a single reference. Generally a case for an obviousness rejection requires the examiner to rely on 2 or more references. Sandor Obviousness stems from Ex Parte Sandor Nagy where the examiner relied on only a single reference to reject the claims at issue. Ultimately the case was remanded on appeal back to the examiner.\n\nA report established by a patent office, which mentions documents which may be taken into consideration in deciding whether the invention to which a patent application relates is patentable.\n\nThe patenting of a particular medical use of a molecule (or more generally product or composition), wherein a first particular use of a molecule is already known and, therefore, wherein the novel and inventive aspect lies solely in the second use of the molecule. Also known as further medical use.\n\nAn invention consisting in the selection of individual elements, sub-sets, or sub-ranges, within a larger, known set or range. A selection patent is a patent granted on a selection invention.\n\nSee selection invention.\n\nSee person having ordinary skill in the art.\n\nIn United States patent law, a status allowing small businesses, independent inventors, and nonprofit organizations to file a patent application and maintain an issued patent for a reduced fee. An entity that does not qualify for small entity status is charged double the fees charged small entities.\n\nChanges to US patent law in December 2012 created a sub-category of Small Entity Status called \"Micro Entity Status\" for inventors who qualify for Small Entity Status, but also have a gross income less than a certain amount, and have assigned their patent(s) to their employer which is an institution of higher education.\n\nA patent in the field of computer software. Some types of inventions in the field of software are legally considered non-patentable subject-matter, depending on the jurisdiction. See also software patents under the European Patent Convention, under TRIPs Agreement, under United Kingdom patent law, under United States patent law, computer programs and the Patent Cooperation Treaty, software patent debate.\n\nA synonym for prior art.\n\nA procedure governed by MPEP Sections 1100 et al. in which a patent applicant could request a public filing of their application. Usually, this was used when the applicant felt a patent was no longer possible during the application period. It may now be obsolete due to the 1999 America Inventors Protection Act which required publication of U.S. applications in 18 months unless an exception applied.\n\nA patent first published and granted long after the original application was filed.\n\nAn important requirement to be met by a patent in order to be validly granted. According to this requirement, an invention must be described in the application or patent in a sufficiently clear and complete manner to enable the person skilled in the art to carry out the invention.\n\nA \"sui generis\" right notably available for medicinal and plant protection products. The right comes into force after the corresponding patent expires and, for medicinal and plant protection products, has a maximum term (i.e., lifetime) of 5 years.\n\nA procedure under U.S. patent law whereby an inventor can get a patent even if the invention has become public before the patent application was filed. Also \"Swear behind a reference\" or \"Antedate\" a reference. See 35 USC Section 102.\n\nA condition for an invention to be considered patentable under the case law and practice of the European Patent Office (EPO). Namely, an invention must notably have a technical character to be patentable. See for example Software patents under the European Patent Convention.\n\nThe maximum period during which it can be maintained in force.\n\nAn operation by which ownership of a patent or patent application changes (for instance as a result of a financial transaction).\n\nIn United States patent law, a phrase that links the preamble of a patent claim to the specific elements set forth in the claim which define what the invention itself actually is. The transitional phrase acts as a limitation on the claim, indicating whether a similar device, method, or composition infringes the patent if it contains more or fewer elements than the claim in the patent.\n\nA patent having a unitary effect throughout the territories of more than one country. The proposed unitary patent in the European Union, also called \"European patent with unitary effect\", is the most well-known unitary patent. Other unitary patents are the unitary patent in Switzerland and Liechtenstein and the OAPI patent. See also regional patent.\n\nA requirement that a patent application can relate only to one invention (or to a group of inventions so linked as to form a single general inventive concept, see for instance Unity of invention under the European Patent Convention).\n\nA patentability requirement mainly used to prevent the patenting of inoperative devices such as perpetual motion machines.\n\nAn intellectual property right which is very similar to the patent, but usually has a shorter term (often 6 or 10 years) and may have less stringent patentability requirements. See also petty patent and innovation patent.\n\nA validity opinion, also called \"invalidity opinion\", is a legal opinion provided by an attorney on how a court might rule on the validity of an issued patent. Validity opinions are often sought prior to patent litigation. See Patent infringement.\n\nPatent issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office between July 1790 (when the first U.S. patent was issued) and July 1836.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1268820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1268820", "title": "Harriet E. Wilson", "text": "Harriet E. Wilson\n\nHarriet E. Wilson (June 28, 1825 – March 15, 1900) is considered the first female African-American novelist, as well as the first African American of any gender to publish a novel on the North American continent. Her novel \"Our Nig, or Sketches from the Life of a Free Black\" was published anonymously in 1859 in Boston, Massachusetts, and was not widely known. The novel was discovered in 1982 by the scholar Henry Louis Gates, Jr., who documented it as the first African-American novel published in the United States. However, the novel \"The Bondwoman's Narrative\" by Hannah Crafts, published for the first time in 2002, may have been written before Wilson's book.\n\nBorn a free person of color (free Negro) in New Hampshire, Wilson was orphaned when young and bound until the age of 18 as an indentured servant. She struggled to make a living after that, marrying twice; her only son George died at the age of seven in the poor house, where she had placed him while trying to survive as a widow. She wrote one novel. Wilson later was associated with the Spiritualist church, was paid on the public lecture circuit for her lectures about her life, and worked as a housekeeper in a boarding house.\n\nBorn Harriet E. \"Hattie\" Adams in Milford, New Hampshire, she was the mixed-race daughter of Margaret Ann (or Adams) Smith, a washerwoman of Irish ancestry, and Joshua Green, an African-American \"hooper of barrels.\" After her father died when Hattie was young, her mother abandoned Hattie at the farm of Nehemiah Hayward Jr., a well-to-do Milford farmer \"connected to the Hutchinson Family Singers\". As an orphan, Adams was bound by the courts as an indentured servant to the Hayward family, a customary way for society at the time to arrange support and education for orphans. The intention was that, in exchange for labor, the orphan child would be given room, board and training in life skills, so that she could later make her way in society.\n\nFrom their documentary research, the scholars P. Gabrielle Foreman and Reginald H. Pitts believe that the Hayward family were the basis of the \"Bellmont\" family depicted in \"Our Nig\". (This was the family who held the young \"Frado\" in indentured servitude, abusing her physically and mentally from the age of six to eighteen. Foreman and Pitts' material was incorporated in supporting sections of the 2004 edition of \"Our Nig\".)\n\nAfter the end of her indenture at the age of eighteen, Hattie Adams (as she was then known), worked as a house servant and a seamstress in households in southern New Hampshire...\n\nAdams married Thomas Wilson in Milford on October 6, 1851. An escaped slave, Wilson had been traveling around New England giving lectures based on his life. Although he continued to lecture periodically in churches and town squares, he told Hattie that he had never been a slave and that he had created the story to gain support from abolitionists.\n\nWilson abandoned Harriet soon after they married. Pregnant and ill, Harriet Wilson was sent to the Hillsborough County, New Hampshire Poor Farm in Goffstown, where her only son, George Mason Wilson, was born. His probable birth date was June 15, 1852. Soon after George's birth, Wilson reappeared and took the two away from the Poor Farm. He returned to sea, where he served as a sailor, and died soon after.\n\nAs a widow, Harriet Wilson returned her son George to the care of the Poor Farm, where he died at the age of seven on February 16, 1860. She could not make enough money to support them both and provide for his care while she worked.\n\nAfter that, Wilson moved to Boston, hoping for more work opportunities. On September 29, 1870, Wilson married again, to John Gallatin Robinson in Boston. An apothecary, he was a native of Canada born in Sherbrooke, Quebec. Robinson was of English and German ancestry; he was nearly 18 years younger than Wilson. From 1870-1877, they resided at 46 Carver Street, after which they appear to have separated. After that date, city directories list Wilson and Robinson in separate lodgings in Boston's South End. No record has been found of a divorce, but divorces were infrequent at the time.\n\nWhile living in Boston, Wilson wrote \"Our Nig\". On August 18, 1859, she copyrighted it, and deposited a copy of the novel in the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts. On September 5, 1859, the novel was published anonymously by George C. Rand and Avery, a publishing firm in Boston. Wilson said that she wrote the novel in order to raise money to help care for her sick child, George.\n\nIn 1863, Harriet Wilson appeared on the \"Report of the Overseers of the Poor\" for the town of Milford, New Hampshire. After 1863, she disappeared from records until 1867, when she was listed in the Boston Spiritualist newspaper, \"Banner of Light,\" as living in East Cambridge, Massachusetts. She subsequently moved across the Charles River to the city of Boston, where she became known in Spiritualist circles as \"the colored medium.\"\n\nFrom 1867 to 1897, \"Mrs. Hattie E. Wilson\" was listed in the \"Banner of Light\" as a trance reader and lecturer. She was active in the local Spiritualist community, and she would give \"lectures\", either while entranced, or speaking normally, wherever she was wanted. She spoke at camp meetings, in theaters, and in private homes throughout New England; she shared the podium with speakers such as Victoria Woodhull and Andrew Jackson Davis. In 1870 Wilson traveled as far as Chicago as a delegate to the American Association of Spiritualists convention. Wilson delivered lectures on labor reform, and children's education. Although the texts of her talks have not survived, newspaper reports imply that she often spoke about her life experiences, providing sometimes trenchant and often humorous commentary.\n\nCloser to home, Wilson was active in the organization and maintenance of Children's Progressive Lyceums, the Spiritualist church equivalent to Sunday Schools; she organized Christmas celebrations; she participated in skits and playlets; and at meetings she sometime sang as part of a quartet. She was also known for her floral centerpieces, and the candies she would make for the children were long remembered. Wilson worked as a Spiritualist nurse and healer (\"clairvoyant physician\").\n\nIn addition, for nearly 20 years from 1879 to 1897, she was the housekeeper of a boardinghouse in a two-story dwelling at 15 Village Street (near the present corner of Dover [now East Berkeley Street] and Tremont Streets in the South End.) She rented out rooms, collected rents and provided basic maintenance.\n\nIn Wilson's active and fruitful life after \"Our Nig,\" there is no evidence that she wrote anything else for publication.\n\nOn June 28, 1900, Hattie E. Wilson died in the Quincy Hospital in Quincy, Massachusetts. She was buried in the Cobb family plot in that town's Mount Wollaston Cemetery. Her plot number is listed as 1337, \"old section.\"\n\nAt Wilson's death, her estranged husband Robinson, describing himself as a \"capitalist\", was living in the town of Pembroke, Massachusetts with a 24-year-old woman named Izah Nellie Moore. Two years later they married.\n\nThe scholar Henry Louis Gates, Jr. rediscovered \"Our Nig\" in 1982 and documented it as the first novel by an African American to be published in the United States. His discovery and the novel gained national attention.\n\nIn 2006, William L. Andrews, an English literature professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and Mitch Kachun, a history professor at Western Michigan University, brought to light Julia C. Collins' \"The Curse of Caste; or The Slave Bride\" (1865), first published in serial form in the \"Christian Recorder,\" the newspaper of the AME Church. Publishing it in book form in 2006, they maintained that \"The Curse of Caste\" should be considered the first \"truly imagined\" novel by an African American to be published in the U.S. They argued that \"Our Nig\" was more autobiography than fiction. \nGates responded that numerous other novels and other works of fiction of the period were in some part based on real-life events and were in that sense autobiographical, but they were still considered novels. Examples include Fanny Fern's \"\"; Louisa May Alcott's \"Little Women\"; and Hannah Webster Foster's \"The Coquette\" (1797).\n\nThe first known novel by an African American is William Wells Brown's \"Clotel; or, The President's Daughter\" (1853), published in the United Kingdom, where he was living at the time. The critic Sven Birkerts argued that the unfinished state of \"The Curse of Caste\" (Collins died before completing it) and its poor literary quality should disqualify it as the first building block of African-American literature. He contended the works by Wilson and Brown were more fully realized.\n\nEric Gardner thought that \"Our Nig\" did not receive critical acclaim from abolitionists when first published because it did not conform to the contemporary genre of slave narratives. He thinks the abolitionists may have refrained from promoting \"Our Nig\" because the novel recounts \"slavery's shadow\" in the North, where free blacks suffered as indentured servants and from racism. It fails to offer the promise of freedom, and it features a protagonist who is assertive toward a white woman.\n\nIn her article \"Dwelling in the House of Oppression: The Spatial, Racial, and Textual Dynamics of Harriet Wilson's Our Nig\", Lois Leveen argues that, although the novel is about a free black in the north, the \"free black\" is still oppressed. The \"white house\" of the novel represents, as Leveen puts it: \"The model home for American society is built according to the spatial imperatives of slavery.\" Frado is a \"free black\", but she is treated as a lower-class person and is often abused as a slave would be. Leveen argues that Wilson was expressing her view that even the \"free blacks\" were not really free in a racist society.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52283832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52283832", "title": "Hawker v Vickers", "text": "Hawker v Vickers\n\nHawker v Vickers [1991] 1 NZLR 399 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding property law.\n"}
{"id": "25122460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25122460", "title": "Herrenchiemsee convention", "text": "Herrenchiemsee convention\n\nThe Constitutional Convention at Herrenchiemsee () was a meeting of constitutional experts nominated by the minister-presidents of the Western States of Germany, held in August 1948 at former Herrenchiemsee Abbey in Bavaria. It was part of the process of drafting and adopting the current German constitution, the Basic Law (\"Grundgesetz\"). The draft document prepared by the Herrenchiemsee convention served as a starting point for the deliberations of the \"Parlamentarischer Rat\" in Bonn during 1948 and 1949.\n\nOn 1 July 1948 the Western Allies had officially recommended the implementation of a West German state by handing out the \"Frankfurt Documents\" to the minister-presidents and governing mayors of the Western occupation zones. From 8 to 10 July the minister-presidents met at Koblenz and proclaimed the establishment of a Federal Republic of Germany, which should only be a provisional arrangement but not a successor state of the German Reich.\n\nChaired by the representative of the Bavarian State Chancellery, the convention was inaugurated on August 10 at the Herrenchiemsee \"Old Palace\", a former residence of King Ludwig II. The assembly did not adopt an official name, it was later called Herrenchiemsee Convention by the members of the \"Parlamentarischer Rat\". Every West German state was represented by an expert, the West Berlin deputy Otto Suhr due to Allied reservations attended the meeting as a non-voting \"guest\". Three committees were established, which until August 23 drafted a nearly complete concept of a new German constitution, whereby the basic principles of the Basic Law were fixed:\nThe federal character of the Herrenchiemsee draft corresponded with the assignment of the convention by the German States. It was adopted by a minister-presidents' conference before it was forwarded to the \"Parlamentarischer Rat\". The council in Bonn could rely on a highly qualified conception with several contentious points resolved in advance, though many Social Democratic and Communist deputies originally objected against a too strong exertion of influence by the States' governments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "176999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176999", "title": "Intellectual rights", "text": "Intellectual rights\n\nIntellectual rights (from \"\") is a term sometimes used to refer to the legal protection afforded to owners of intellectual capital. This notion is more commonly referred to as \"intellectual property\", though \"intellectual rights\" more aptly describes the nature of the protections afforded by most nations.\n\nBoth terms were used in Europe during the 19th century as a means of distinguishing between two different views of intellectual protection. \"Intellectual property\" was generally used to advocate a belief that copyrights and patents should provide rights similar to physical property rights. The term \"intellectual rights\" was used by those who felt that such protection should take the form of temporary, limited grants.\n\nAlthough most modern copyright systems do not treat copyrighted or patented materials in the same way as real property, the term \"intellectual property\" has gained prominence. For more on this subject, see \"intellectual property\".\n\nAlso, at least three different kinds of capital and rights are involved:\n\nAll three capital terms predate the term intellectual capital, which appears to be a 19th-century artifact of early, now-discredited, economic theory.\n\nIn 20th-century Europe also originated another more modern approach, intended to sweep away the differences between the historical \"Intellectual Property\" and \"Intellectual Rights\" camps, allowing every creator both perpetual and temporary rights:\n\nNote that this is one of the chief differences between U.S. and EU approach towards Intellectual property rights up till the early 21st century, in that the crystallisation of this modern approach (the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works) is still only partially put in practice in the U.S., and, where applied, this is done largely outside the legislation regarding IP.\n"}
{"id": "144854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144854", "title": "International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture", "text": "International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture\n\nThe International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (IT PGRFA), popularly known as the International Seed Treaty, is a comprehensive international agreement in harmony with the Convention on Biological Diversity, which aims at guaranteeing food security through the conservation, exchange and sustainable use of the world's plant genetic resources for food and agriculture (PGRFA), as well as the fair and equitable benefit sharing arising from its use. It also recognises farmers' rights, subject to national laws to: a) the protection of traditional knowledge relevant to plant genetic resources for food and agriculture; b) the right to equitably participate in sharing benefits arising from the utilisation of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture; and c) the right to participate in making decisions, at the national level, on matters related to the conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture. The Treaty establishes the Multilateral System of Access and Benefit-sharing to facilitate plant germplasm exchanges and benefit sharing through Standard Material Transfer Agreement (SMTA).\n\nHowever, as Regine Andersen of the farmers' rights project, among others, including Olivier De Schutter, the UN Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food, argue, the interpretation and realisation of farmers' rights is weak and is not the same across all countries. Without a consistent, strong international focus on the realising the rights of farmers who conserve and sustainably use PGRFA to save, use, exchange and sell seeds saved on-farm, genetic variety of crops and related agricultural biodiversity will suffer. India, for example, includes an interpretation of farmers' rights in its Plant Variety Protection and Farmers' Rights Act, allowing farmers a restricted right to save and sell seed they have produced on-farm as they always have, even if it contains genes from a protected variety.,\n\nThe treaty has implemented a Multilateral System (MLS) of access and benefit sharing, among those countries that ratify the treaty, for a list of 64 of some of the most important food and forage crops essential for food security and interdependence. The genera and species are listed in Annex 1 to the treaty.\n\nThe treaty was negotiated by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Commission on Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (CGRFA) and since 2006 has its own Governing Body under the aegis of the FAO. The Governing Body is the highest organ of the Treaty as established in Article 19. Composed of representatives of all Contracting Parties, its basic function is to promote the full implementation of the Treaty, including the provision of policy guidance on the implementation of the Treaty. The Governing Body elects its Chairperson and Vice-Chairpersons, in conformity with its Rules of Procedure. They are collectively referred to as \"the Bureau\".\n\nSome believe the treaty could be an example of responsible global governance for ensuring that plant genetic resources essential for present and future food security can be kept accessible to all farmers and in the public domain. Chapter 7 of the Second Report on the State of the World's Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (SoWPGR-2) entitled \"Access to Plant Genetic Resources, the sharing of benefits arising out of their utilization and the realization of Farmers' Rights\" is mainly dedicated to the International Treaty.\n\n\nThe treaty was under negotiation for 7 years. A previous voluntary agreement, the International Undertaking on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (IU), was adopted in 1983. However, the IU was reliant on the principle of genetic resources being the common heritage of humanity. The Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) (1993) brought genetic resources under the jurisdiction and sovereignty of national governments. However, the CBD recognised the special and distinctive nature of agricultural genetic resources: they were international - crossing countries and continents - their conservation and sustainable use requires distinctive solutions and they were important internationally for food security. Subsequently, the IU was renegotiated, to bring it in harmony with the CBD, and was renamed as a treaty. An account of the long process to achieve the treaty called \"Negotiating the Seed Treaty\" can be found at .\n\nThe treaty was approved during the FAO Conference (31st Session resolution 3/2001) on 3 November 2001, with 116 votes and 2 abstentions (USA and Japan). In accordance with its Article 25, it was opened for signatures until 4 November 2002 by all members of FAO or any state member of the United Nations or of the International Atomic Energy Agency. It was subject to ratification, acceptance or approval (Article 26), by all members.\n\nThe International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture was open to accession a year after adoption and once closed to signatures (Article 27), i.e., on 4 November 2002. 77 countries and the European Union had signed the treaty by that date.\n\nIn accordance with Article 28, the treaty entered into force on the ninetieth day after the deposit of the fortieth instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, provided that at least twenty instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession have been deposited by Members of FAO. Having reached the required number of instruments in order for the treaty to enter into force (40) on 31 March 2004, on which date 13 instruments (including the European Union) were deposited with the Director-General of FAO, the date of entry into force was on 29 June 2004.\n\nPlant genetic resources are essential to a sustainable agriculture and food security. FAO estimates humans have used some 10 000 species for food throughout history. However, only about 120 cultivated species provide around 90% of food requirements and 4 species (Maize, Wheat, Rice and Potatoes) provide about 60% of human dietary energy for the world's population. Of the myriad of varieties of these crops developed by farmers over millennia, which form an important part of agricultural biodiversity, more than 75% have been lost in the past 100 years.\n\nSome fear that corporate financial interests might prevent safeguarding of livelihoods, promotion of food security, biodiversity-rich farming under control of local communities, and implementation of Farmers' Rights.\n\nCritics say many of the central issues are unresolved or open to interpretation. Some of the points raised are:\n\n\nThe treaty came into force on 29 June 2004 at which time there were more than 54 ratifications by countries. An article prepared on the occasion of the treaty becoming law is posted at . From the entry into force, countries that previously signed are allowed to ratify the treaty, while countries that did not sign the treaty before it came into force can also accede to it. The instrument of ratification has to be deposited with the Director-General of FAO.\n\nThere are 144 contracting parties to the Treaty (143 states and the European Union) as of September 2018.\n\nEven foods that have been part of a culture for centuries often are indigenous to a region on the other side of the world. This global dispersal shows the generosity with which farmers and farming communities have always shared seeds and genetic materials with neighbors or through trade. As people ventured forth, looking for new lands, their seeds were part of their diasporas. As a result, we now live in a world in which not one country can be considered self-sufficient in terms of being able to survive solely on crops indigenous within its borders. The Treaty facilitates the continued open exchange of food crops and their genetic materials.\n\nThe list of plant genetic material included in the Multilateral System of the Treaty is made of major food crops and forages. The Forages are also divided in legume forages and grass forages. They were selected taking into account the criteria of food security and country interdependence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38906372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38906372", "title": "Jonas Öberg", "text": "Jonas Öberg\n\nJonas Öberg (born 22 November 1977 in Sweden) is a free and open-source software activist, describing himself as an instigator in the world of free, having worked with the Free Software Foundation Europe, GNU Project, FSCONS, Creative Commons and the Shuttleworth Foundation. He started to develop software in 1991 and installed his first GNU/Linux operating system in 1993 after which he eventually joined as a webmaster for the GNU Project. In the late 1990s, he spent some time at the MIT AI Labs where he met with Richard Stallman and others from the Free Software Foundation, joining them for The Bazaar conference in New York. Since 2002, he has been on the award committee for the Free Software Foundation's Free Software Awards.\n\nIn 2001, he was a founding member of the Free Software Foundation Europe and took up a role as vice president on 22 November 2001 when former vice president Loïc Dachary took a step back to focus on GNU Savannah\n\nHaving worked with Creative Commons for several years, including running a course of fundraising at the Peer to Peer University, he became the first Regional Coordinator for Europe in 2011. His work for the organisation eventually led him to a position as a Fellow of the Shuttleworth Foundation where his work focus on creating tools and prototypes for the embedding of metadata for licensing and attribution requirements in digital works. His company Commons Machinery was featured as one of the 12 winners of Tech All Stars 2014, a competition of the European Commission's and Neelie Kroes's Digital Agenda.\n\nHe has a 19th-century wooden house in the North of Sweden which he is continuously renovating and lives outside of Stockholm in Gnesta, Sweden. He married Julia Velkova - a media researcher, and a member of Internet Society Bulgaria. Their marriage took place at the Ice hotel in Sweden on 8 March 2013.\n"}
{"id": "25180527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25180527", "title": "Kemp Little", "text": "Kemp Little\n\nKemp Little LLP is a boutique technology-focused law firm based in London. It specializes in TMT, but also has expanded into other practice areas such as corporate, litigation and employment. It was listed among the Financial Times Most Innovative Law Firms list for 2009.\n\nKemp Little was founded in 1997 by Richard Kemp after he left a law firm under the now defunct firm Andersen Legal, called Garretts. Originally launched as Kemp & Co., Kemp spent the first few weeks of the company’s inception practising on his own before his colleague Ashley Winton joined him, before he moved on to White & Case.\n\nWith its focus on technology, the law firm was able to ride the Dotcom boom, growing rapidly and even avoiding damage when the ‘bubble’ burst. However, when the boom did end, growth did slow down notably. Jonathan Little joined the company in 1999 and Kemp & Co. became Kemp Little two years later in 2001. At the same time, Kemp Little became the first law firm ever to transfer to LLP status.\n\nJonathan Little quit in 2005 to join Simmons & Simmons but Kemp kept his surname in the brand as it was by now well established.\n\nIn May 2014, Richard Kemp left the law firm to establish his own IT boutique, Kemp IT Law.\n\n\nOn 17 October 2013, Kemp Little Consulting was launched by the law firm, creating a consultancy for matters relating to technology and law. The consultancy is headed by Chris Wray and Jim Odell.\n\nSome of Kemp Little's clients include: Activision, Deloitte, Expedia, London Stock Exchange, Microsoft, T-Mobile, Toshiba and Thomson Reuters. Clients in the past have included the London Stock Exchange, Standard Chartered Bank, FTSE and Ticketmaster.\n\nIn its latest financial results, the firm announced it was working for over 10 percent of the FTSE 100, in addition to over 15 Fortune 500 companies and numerous technology businesses.\n"}
{"id": "576225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=576225", "title": "Law Officers of the Crown", "text": "Law Officers of the Crown\n\nThe Law Officers of the Commonwealth are the chief legal advisers to the Crown, and advise and represent the central and devolved governments in the United Kingdom and national and sub-national governments in other Commonwealth realms.\n\nIn England and Wales, Northern Ireland and most Commonwealth and colonial governments, the chief law officer of the Crown is the Attorney General. In England and Wales the Attorney General is supported by the Solicitor General. Following devolution of justice to the Scottish Parliament a new position of Advocate General for Scotland was created to advise the UK Government on matters of Scots law. So there are three UK Government Law Officers: the Attorney General, the Solicitor General and the Advocate General for Scotland. \n\nThere are also two Scottish Government Law Officers. In Scotland, the chief law officer to the Scottish Government and the Crown in Scotland is the Lord Advocate. The Lord Advocate is supported by the Solicitor General for Scotland.\n\nThe Attorney General for England and Wales, a member of the UK Government, is similarly the chief law officer of the Crown in England and Wales and advises and represents the Crown and government departments in court. By convention, and unlike the papers of other ministers, this legal advice is available to subsequent governments. In the second half of the 20th century it became unusual for the Attorney General to be formally a member of the Cabinet. Rather he/she would attend only when the Cabinet required legal advice.\n\nThe Attorney General oversees the small Attorney General's Office and also has responsibility for the Government Legal Department, which is headed by the Treasury Solicitor. In practice, the Treasury Solicitor (who also has the title of Procurator General) normally provides the lawyers or briefs Treasury Counsel to appear in court, although the Attorney General may appear in person. The person appointed to this role provides legal advice to the Government, acts as the representative of the public interest and resolves issues between government departments. The Government Legal Department provides advice to Government Departments, instructing independent counsel where necessary. The Attorney General is a barrister and can appear in court in person, though in practice he/she rarely does so, and then only in cases of outstanding national importance. In those cases the Government Legal Department provides his back-up. When appearing in court in person he/she is addressed by the judge as \"Mr Attorney\".\n\nThe Attorney General also has supervisory powers over prosecutions, including those mounted by the Crown Prosecution Service, headed by the Director of Public Prosecutions; the Serious Fraud Office; and the Revenue and Customs Prosecutions Office. While the Attorney General is not personally involved with prosecutions, some prosecutions (e.g. riot) cannot be commenced without their consent, and they have the power to halt prosecutions generally. Criminal prosecutions are the responsibility of the Crown Prosecution Service, headed by the Director of Public Prosecutions. The Attorney General may appeal cases to the higher courts where, although the particular case is settled, there may be a point of law of public importance at issue.\n\nThe Attorney General has public interest functions, being, for example, the trustee of default where a sole trustee has died, and can also take cases to the Supreme Court where points of general legal importance need to be settled.\n\nThe Attorney General's deputy is the Solicitor General for England and Wales, currently Robert Buckland. Under the Law Officers Act 1997, the Solicitor General may do anything on behalf of, or in the place of, the Attorney General, and vice versa.\n\nUnder the Government of Wales Act 2006, the Counsel General for Wales is the chief legal adviser to, and a member of, the Welsh Government.\n\nUnder the recent constitutional reforms, the Lord Advocate has become an officer of the Scottish Government, while the United Kingdom Government is advised on Scots law by the Advocate General for Scotland. The Lord Advocate, currently James Wolffe, heads the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service and is the chief public prosecutor in Scotland. The Lord Advocate is assisted by the Solicitor General for Scotland, currently Alison Di Rollo. \nSince the prorogation of the Parliament of Northern Ireland in 1972, the Attorney General for England and Wales was also Attorney General for Northern Ireland. The separate office of Attorney General for Northern Ireland was re-created alongside the new office of Advocate General for Northern Ireland upon the devolution of policing and justice powers to the Northern Ireland Assembly on 12 April 2010. As a result, these functions were split between: \n\n\nMost Commonwealth and colonial governments also have their own attorneys general. Sometimes the legal advisers of subnational governments are given the title advocate general. In Hong Kong, apart from the Solicitor General and the Crown Prosecutor (the Director of Public Prosecutions before 1997), there are also the Law Officer (Civil), the Law Officer (International) and the Law Draftsman. All these five offices are \"Law Officers\" reporting to the Attorney General (known since 1997 as the Secretary for Justice).\n\nIn Canada the term law officers are not used, but the title holders with similar roles are:\n\nSome subjects are entitled to have an attorney general: these include a queen consort and the Prince of Wales, who has an Attorney General for the Duchy of Cornwall. There is also an Attorney General for the Duchy of Lancaster, which is a mostly landed inheritance that is held by the Crown (in trust for the monarch) and administered independently of the monarch under the supervision of a government minister, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.\n\nBefore the establishment of the Irish Free State in 1922, the legal advisers to the Crown in the Courts of Ireland were the Attorney-General for Ireland and the Solicitor-General for Ireland. These offices became redundant in 1921. \n\nThe Crown also had a legal adviser for the High Court of Admiralty, known as the Admiralty Advocate, but this office lapsed in 1875 when the Admiralty Court became part of the Probate, Divorce and Admiralty Division of the High Court of Justice.\n\nThe Crown's representative in the ecclesiastical courts of England was the King's Advocate (or Queen's Advocate when the monarch was female). This office has been vacant since the resignation of its last holder in 1872.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17118207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17118207", "title": "Li livres de jostice et de plet", "text": "Li livres de jostice et de plet\n\n\"Li livres de jostice et de plet(z)\" (\"The Book of Justice and of Pleas\") is an Old French legal treatise compiled by the postglossators of the school of Orléans in the mid-thirteenth century (c. 1260). It was influenced by canon law (especially the decretals of Gregory IX), Roman law (especially the \"Digest\"), the customary law of the Orléanais, and the legislation of the Capetian Kings of France. It does not have the sense of a finished work, possesses \"lacunae\", and is somewhat disorganised, being possibly the work of a student of the University of Orléans. \n\nThe first book of the \"Livres\" is a free translation of the first three paragraphs of the \"Digest\". It is not a \"coutoumier\" (compilation of customary law) and most of the customary law it cites is limited to Orléans. Among the royal acts it reproduces is one of Saint Louis from 1254, in which the king depicted as judge declares himself the guardian of the peace and rest of his subjects: \"nos deserrens de la dete de la real poesté la pez et le respous de nos sojeiz\". The \"Livres\" may have influenced the later legislation of Philip the Fair. \n\nWith regards to the law of fiefs, the \"Livres\" states that dukes, counts, viscounts, and barons could all hold their land from one another. The \"Livres\" also states that \"la bone devise de droit des persones, des gens, est tele que tot homes ou il sont franc ou serf\": \"the good division of the law of persons is that all men are either free or servile.\" This law is based on the \"Digest\" but the meaning of the word \"servi\" that the medieval author translates \"serf\" meant \"slave\". \n\nThe \"Livres\", by defining treason (\"traïson\") as \"férir, et l'en ne voie pas le cop venir\" (to wound [someone], and when the blow could not be seen coming), declared all crossbowmen to be traitors, since nobody could see their blows coming. \n\nThe \"Livres\" has provided scholars with unique insight into medieval legal attitudes to sexual crimes. It does not lay out punishment for prostitutes, preferring to reintegrate them into society in accordance with canon law. It does, however, prescribe the banishment and confiscation of property of the \"maquerel des femmes\" (procurer) and the owner of a brothel (\"bordelerie\"). It also describes penalties for male homosexuality and is the first known work to describe penalties for lesbianism as well. On the first offence the male sodomite was to be castrated, on the second dismembered, and on the third burned alive. The lesbian offender was to be dismembered on the first two offences (although exactly what two \"members\" were to be cut off is uncertain) and burned alive on the third. All their goods accrued to the crown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43450009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43450009", "title": "List of fictional judges", "text": "List of fictional judges\n\nThis is a list of judges in fiction. The list also include real people portrayed as judges in works of fiction.\n\n"}
{"id": "1722373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1722373", "title": "Locard's exchange principle", "text": "Locard's exchange principle\n\nIn forensic science, Locard's exchange principle holds that the perpetrator of a crime will bring something into the crime scene and leave with something from it, and that both can be used as forensic evidence. Dr. Edmond Locard (13 December 1877 – 4 May 1966) was a pioneer in forensic science who became known as the Sherlock Holmes of France. He formulated the basic principle of forensic science as: \"Every contact leaves a trace\". Paul L. Kirk expressed the principle as follows:\n\nFragmentary or trace evidence is any type of material left at (or taken from) a crime scene, or the result of contact between two surfaces, such as shoes and the floor covering or soil, or fibers from where someone sat on an upholstered chair.\n\nWhen a crime is committed, fragmentary (or trace) evidence needs to be collected from the scene. A team of specialized police technicians goes to the scene of the crime and seals it off. They record video and take photographs of the crime scene, victim/s (if there are any) and items of evidence. If necessary, they undertake ballistics examinations. They check for foot, shoe, and tire mark impressions, plus hair as well as examine any vehicles and check for fingerprints - whole or partial.\n\nThe case studies below show how prevalent Locard's Exchange Principle is in each and every crime. The examples using Locard's Principle show not only how the transfer of trace evidence can tell the tale of what happened, but also how much care is required when collecting and evaluating trace evidence.\n\nKarola and Melanie Weimar, aged 5 and 7, lived with their parents, Reinhard and Monika, in Germany. They were reported missing on 4 August 1986. Their bodies were found on 7 August. They had been murdered.\n\nMonika first said the children had breakfast, then went to a playground. Three weeks later she said they were already dead when she returned home the previous night: Reinhard was sitting on the edge of Karola's bed, weeping and confused; he then disposed of the bodies.\n\nBoth parents were suspected, but Monika was having an affair, and was seen where Melanie's body was later found. She was convicted, but after serving her sentence, was released in 2006.\n\nInvestigators determined what clothes Monika was wearing on 3 and 4 August, but not Reinhard's clothes, so only fibers from her clothing were identified on the children's bodies, yet they were also constantly in contact with him.\n\nThe bedding contained 14 fibers from Karola's T-shirt. Frictionless tests, simulating a dead child, matched that figure better than the friction tests, simulating a live child, so Karola could have lain lifelessly in bed wearing her T-shirt, as stated by her mother.\n\n35 fibers from Monika's blouse were found on the back of Melanie's T-shirt, but only one on her bed sheet. In tests, between 6 and 10 fibers remained on the sheet. These higher numbers were thought to disprove Monika's claim that she gave her child a goodbye hug the previous day. However, there are several likely explanations. For example, the bedding was put in one bag, so fibers from the sheet could have been transferred to the cover and pillow. Only the central area of the top of the sheet was taped: it might have originally contained more than one blouse fiber, the others could have been transferred to the back or sides while in the bag.\n\nThe blouse fibers on Melanie's clothing were distributed evenly, not the clusters expected from carrying the body.\n\n265 fibers from the family car’s rear seat covers were found on Melanie's panties and the inside of her trousers, but only a small number of fibers from the front seats was found on the children. This helped disprove the theory that they were killed on the front seats.\n\nMelanie's clothes and hair were covered in 375 clinging fruits of goosegrass. As some of these itchy things were on the inside of her trousers and on her panties, the trousers must have been put on her after death.\n\nNo sand was found on the bodies or clothing (including socks and sandals) of either child, making the morning playground story unlikely.\n\nDanielle van Dam, aged 7, lived with her parents and brothers in San Diego, California. She was reported missing on 2 February 2002; her body was discovered on 27 February. Neighbor David Westerfield was almost immediately suspected, as he had gone camping in his RV, and he was convicted of her kidnapping and murder.\n\nHairs consistent with the van Dams’ dog were found in his RV, also carpet fibers consistent with Danielle's bedroom carpet. Danielle's nightly ritual was to wrestle with the dog after getting into her pajamas. The prosecution argued that those hairs and fibers got onto her pajamas through that contact, and were then carried on the pajamas to first Westerfield's house and then to his RV, when he kidnapped her from her bed. The alternative scenario is that they got onto her daytime clothes, and those of her mother and younger brother, and were carried to his house when they visited him earlier that week selling cookies. He said his laundry was out during that visit, so trace evidence from them could have got on it, and then been transferred to his bedroom and his RV (secondary Locard transfer). Also, his RV was often parked, sometimes unlocked, in the neighborhood streets, so Danielle could have sneaked inside, leaving behind that evidence.\n\nNo trace of Westerfield was found in the van Dam house.\n\n14 hairs consistent with Danielle's were found in his environment. All but one were compared on only mitochondrial DNA, so they might have come from her mother or a sibling. Most (21) of the hairs were in a dryer lint ball in his trash can, so they might have got in his laundry before the kidnapping.\n\nThere were 5 carpet fibers in his RV, but none in his house, suggesting those were deposited by someone going directly from her house to his RV, or they may have come from another house in that development.\n\nNo Danielle pajama or bedding fibers were reported in his environment. There was no trace evidence in his SUV (which casts doubt on the belief that she was transported from his house to his RV in his SUV). He vacuumed his RV after the kidnapping, but no trace evidence was in the vacuum cleaner.\n\nOne orange fiber with her body was consistent with about 200 in his house and 20 in his SUV (none in his RV), while 21 blue fibers with her body were consistent with 10 in his house and 46 in his RV (none in his SUV). Contrary to media reports, only a few items from her house were tested so that can’t be excluded as the source. In particular, the clothes of Danielle and her family during the cookie sale were not determined and eliminated. There were apparently two different types of the orange fibers, dull and very bright (so the number which matched might have been much less than 200). There were red fibers with her fingernails, and many other fibers with her body, which could not be matched to his environment. The only non-Danielle hair found with her body wasn’t his, nor was any desert sand reported with the body, and no soil or vegetation from the dump site was reported on his shoes, laundry, shovel or RV.\n\nTo explain why so much expected evidence was missing, the prosecution argued that he went on a cleaning frenzy, and tossed out evidence.\n\nIt is also mentioned in an episode of \"Hawaii Five-O\"\n\n"}
{"id": "550187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=550187", "title": "Lower house", "text": "Lower house\n\nA lower house is one of two chambers of a bicameral legislature, the other chamber being the upper house.\n\nDespite its official position \"below\" the upper house, in many legislatures worldwide, the lower house has come to wield more power. The lower house typically is the more numerous of the two chambers. A legislature composed of only one house is described as unicameral.\n\nIn comparison with the upper house, lower houses frequently display certain characteristics.\n\nMany lower houses are named in the following manner: House/Chamber of Representatives/the People/Commons/Deputies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35812511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35812511", "title": "Lèse majesté in Norway", "text": "Lèse majesté in Norway\n\nLèse majesté in Norway (Norwegian: \"majestetsfornærmelse\", \"majestetsforbrytelse\", \"crimen (læsæ) majestatis\", etc.) was judicially based and defined in Norway's 1902 Penal Code, which provided fines or prison for this crime. Often related to political conflicts, accusations of lèse majesté were frequent in the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, and many cases resulted in execution. Virtually no legal actions have been taken after 1905. The last to be charged for lèse majesté was a man who attacked Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom with a tomato during her state visit in 1981. As of 2015, lèse majesté is no longer a criminal offence in Norway.\n\nOn 1 October 2015, the 2005 Penal Code entered into effect, after which lèse majesté is no longer a criminal offence.\n\nThe 1814 Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway states in article 5 that the King's person is holy and that he may not be blamed or accused.\n\nAccording to the 1902 Penal Code, article 100, a person should be punished with 21 years of prison if he causes, attempts to cause or contributes to the death of the King or of the Regent.\n\nArticle 101 said: \"If any defamation is exercised against the King or the Regent, the guilty is punished with a fine or up to five years of prison.\"\n\nArticle 102 provided similar protection to other members of the Royal House.\n\nArticle 103 stated that prosecutions demand either the command or the acceptance of the King.\n\nAccording to article 96, foreign heads of state enjoyed, on certain conditions and when visiting or staying in the Kingdom, protection against lèse majesté.\n\nArticles 100-102 were amended in 1981. Article 103 has remained the same since 1902. The 1902 penal code was gradually replaced by the 2005 penal code.\n\nThe 1842 Penal Code contained provisions concerning \"violations of the body or the health\" of (article 9–13) the King, (article 9–17) the Queen consort, the Queen dowager, and the Royal Princes and Princesses. The punishment was lifetime slavery or capital punishment.\n\nKing Christian V's Norwegian Law of 1687, article 6–4–1, stated:\n\n\nIn the end of the 1650s, Danish nobleman Kai Lykke wrote a letter to Corfitz Ulfeld in which he accused Queen Sophie Amalie of Denmark and Norway of sleeping together with her servants. The letter's content was presented to King Frederick III of Denmark and Norway, and Lykke confessed it. Few months later, he went into exile. The King initiated a trial in which Lykke was found guilty, and he was sentenced to forfeit honour, life, and estate. As Lykke had escaped and could not be executed, an imitational doll was made for and used in a ceremony where it got its right hand cut off and thereafter was beheaded. Also Lykke's coat of arms was destroyed. His large estates were confiscated by the Crown.\n\nIn 1676, Danish and Norwegian count Peder Schumacher Griffenfeld was accused of and sentenced for lèse majesté and other crimes. Bearing his destroyed coat of arms, Griffenfeld was transported to the place of execution. However, just seconds before the sword was to behead Griffenfeld, an officer acting on behalf of King Christian V of Denmark and Norway shouted \"Stop, it is pardon!\", whereafter his sentence was changed to lifetime prison.\n\nIn 1723, Povel Juel was executed at the New Square in Copenhagen after having been sentenced on King Christian V's Danish Law of 1683, articles 6-4-1 and 6-4-2. His alleged contribution to possible occupation of Denmark and Norway was considered an attack on the King rather than on the two countries.\n\nA famous case of lèse majesté is that of Count Johann Friedrich Struensee and Count Enevold Brandt, who in 1772 were accused of and sentenced for this and several other crimes, whereafter they were executed by beheading and placed on the breaking wheel.\n\nIn 1799, the Danish Chancery initiated a process against Dano-Norwegian man Peter Andreas Heiberg, whom they accused of lèse majesté and whom Crown Prince Frederick of Denmark and Norway—the real initiator of the process—considered a troublesome political opponent. The Crown Prince wrote in a letter of 24 July that he considered Heiberg's magazine \"exceedingly shameless\". In a letter of 21 August, the Crown Prince wrote in general that \"no mercy\" was to be shown and that \"fear has to be chased into these humans\". He suggested that the Chancery initiate a trial and subsequently execute them. However, the Chancery considered that popular opinion in Denmark and Norway made an execution of Heiberg too dangerous. Instead, he was banished from the Kingdoms. Heiberg settled in Paris, where he lived until his death in 1841.\n\nIn 1803, having led a group of Lærdal farmers who claimed to be exempt from compulsory military service, farmer Anders Olsen Lysne was executed by beheading. Refusing to obey the King's commands was considered treason against the country: in an absolute monarchy, this was in practise equal to treason against the King himself, i.e. lèse majesté.\n\n\"Det norske Nationalblad\" (1815–1822; English: \"The Norwegian National Magazine\") was an oppositional magazine in Oslo. Through its publishers, the magazine was involved in a case of lèse majesté, after which it lost its postage reduction, forcing it to shut down. In 1825, one of the said publishers, Jonas Anton Hielm, was sentenced to pay a fine of 500 speciedaler.\n\nIn 1878, Member of Parliament Hjalmar Løberg was sentenced for lèse majesté because of an article, published in the magazine \"Hardangeren\", where he claimed that King Oscar II of Sweden and Norway had political motivations for giving a medal to a specific member of parliament.\n\nIn 1884, Jon Gundersen Hol was arrested, accused of lèse majesté in his pamphlet \"Rifleringen\" (English: \"The Ring of Rifles\"). The pamphlet, published on 6 February, called upon semi-military personnel and other civilians possessing weapons to encircle and protect the Parliament in the case a coup d'état, thereby indirectly accusing King Oscar II of having such plans. On 8 February, samples of the pamphlet were confiscated by the police, and at the same time, the printer Nikolai Olsen was arrested. The apprehension of Jon Hol followed on 10 February. He remained in custody until 26 February, and on 11 May, he was charged for lèse majesté. Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson and Lars Holst faced the same charge. However, proceedings were stayed after the fall of the conservative government of Christian Selmer.\n\nIn 1981, a protesting punk was charged with lèse majesté for throwing a tomato at, but failing to hit Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom, who was in Oslo on her second state visit to Norway.\n\n"}
{"id": "29636913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29636913", "title": "Malian constitutional referendum, 1974", "text": "Malian constitutional referendum, 1974\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Mali on 2 June 1974, following the 1968 military coup. The new constitution would allow for a directly elected president (previously the post had been elected by the National Assembly who would serve five-year terms, together with a unicameral National Assembly. It also proposed that the country be run for the next five years by the Military Committee for National Liberation.\n\nThe new constitution was reportedly approved by 99.66% of voters with a 92.2% turnout.\n"}
{"id": "4928364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4928364", "title": "Maples and Calder", "text": "Maples and Calder\n\nMaples and Calder is a multi–jurisdictional law firm headquartered in the Cayman Islands, with offices in traditional tax havens and corporate tax havens. It is a member of the offshore magic circle. The firm specialises in advising on the laws of the Cayman Islands, Ireland and the British Virgin Islands, across a range of legal services including commercial litigation, intellectual property, sport, and finance, in which the firm has a focus on the structuring of tax efficient legal structures (or vehicles), and executing base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") type transactions for corporations.\n\nMacDonald and Maples was founded by Jim MacDonald and John Maples. MacDonald later retired and Douglas Calder joined as a partner, resulting in the name of the firm being changed to Maples and Calder. Today it is often referred to simply as Maples and is headquartered in Ugland House in the Cayman Islands.\n\nThe Cayman Islands office was opened in the early 1960s, followed by the Hong Kong office in 1995. Three years later, the London office opened its doors, with the British Virgin Islands and Dubai office establishing a presence in 2004 and 2005 respectively. Maples and Calder opened a Dublin office in 2006. \n2012 saw the opening of a second office in Asia, when their Singapore office opened in September 2012.\n\nAlasdair Robertson is the firm's global managing partner and is based in the Cayman Islands office.\n\nThe principal focus is on tax management (e.g. structuring and domiciling of tax vehicles, corporate transactions for IP–based and Debt–based based erosion and profit shifting (or BEPS) actions). Maples and Calder also offers a range of other tax focused legal services, including providing advice on major infrastructure and property development projects (domiciled in offshore tax havens or corporate tax havens), and the establishment and structuring of a \"physical presence\" in tax havens such as the Cayman Islands and Dublin, including business licensing, real estate, immigration and employment law.\n\nIn 2009, U.S. President Barack Obama, described Ugland House, the then legal home of 12,000 U.S. corporations as: \"That's either the biggest building in the world or the biggest tax scam in the world\".\n\nMaples and Calder has maintained its position as the largest Cayman Islands law firm, holding top rankings for finance, corporate, investment funds and litigation in legal directories such as Chambers and Partners, Legal 500, and Practical Law Company (PLC), and is the only offshore magic circle law firm to ever achieve Tier 1 in every category of the International Financial Law Review (IFLR).\n\nMaples and Calder maintains a multi–jurisdictional network of offices in leading Caribbean and Channel Islands offshore tax havens such as the Cayman Islands, British Virgin Islands, Dubai, and Jersey. As with other offshore magic circle law firms, Maples and Calder have also opened up offices in the major corporate tax havens, and particularly Dublin and Singapore (see Conduit and Sink OFCs).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15112160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15112160", "title": "MicroInsurance Centre", "text": "MicroInsurance Centre\n\nThe Microinsurance Centre was created in 2000 by Michael J. McCord. It is as an independent institution dedicated to promoting responsible microinsurance, with their focus on the partner-agent model. The partner-agent model links microinsurance schemes (hosted primarily by MFIs) to established commercial insurance companies. This link allows the risk of the schemes to remain with the insurer, and thereby can enable greater sustainability and long-term viability.\n\nThe Microinsurance Centre works on two fronts, helping to establish proper dialogue on micro-insurance policies and helping to set up proper microinsurance schemes. They have a wide range of partners that they work with, including insurers, regulators, donors, MFIs, and NGOs. They have played a role in projects in numerous countries that include Uganda, Kenya, Ghana, India, Nepal, Jordan, Peru, Laos, and Indonesia. They are also actively involved in disseminating information on micro-insurance through their periodic Briefing Notes, web site, and speaking engagements. In addition, they have conducted several country case studies and held trainings in Italy, Uganda, and Pakistan. \n"}
{"id": "26153031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26153031", "title": "National Association of Enrolled Agents", "text": "National Association of Enrolled Agents\n\nThe National Association of Enrolled Agents (NAEA) is an organization of enrolled agents (EAs) in the United States. Founded in 1972, it claims a membership of 11,000 EAs. \n\nWhile its mission statement presents itself publicly as an advocate of taxpayer rights, its primary functions are educating tax professionals in best practices for representing taxpayers to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), protecting the interests of the profession, and expanding the role of enrolled agents in both the public and private sectors.\n\nEnrolled Agent status is required for NAEA membership, although EA status does not need to be \"active\". Inactive/retired EA's may retain their membership. NAEA members have slightly higher Continuing Professional Education requirements than is normally required by the IRS to retain EA status.\n\nNAEA offers continuing professional education (CPE) webinars and seminars for EAs and presents a professional conference, the NTPI annually. The NTPI (National Tax Practice Institute) is a fellowship of NAEA members that meet very specific educational standards.\n\nIn addition to the CE Webinars, NAEA offers continuing education for tax professionals through the EA Journal. \n\nEach year the NAEA offers scholarships through the National Association of Enrolled Agents Education Foundation (NAEA-EF). The exact number and nature of these scholarships varies slightly from year to year but they are available to both practicing Enrolled Agents and tax professionals aspiring to the position. \n\nThe NAEA is led by a board comprising two officers and twelve directors. In addition there are twelve independently chaired committees.\n\n\nNAEA is recognized and approved by the Internal Revenue Service Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR) as a qualified sponsor of continuing professional education programs (Sponsor #16).\n\n"}
{"id": "1540915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1540915", "title": "Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information", "text": "Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information\n\nNaval Nuclear Propulsion Information (NNPI) is a category of intellectual capital defined by the United States Navy to be \"classified or unclassified information concerning the design, arrangement, development, manufacture, testing, operation, administration, training, maintenance, and repair of the propulsion plants of naval nuclear-powered ships and prototypes, including the associated shipboard and shore-based nuclear support facilities..\" \n\nNot all NNPI is classified information. While most NNPI is sensitive, the Navy recognizes that the public has an interest in environmental, safety, and health information, and that the basic research carried out by the Navy can be useful to industry. Unclassified information is therefore marked with the acronym \"U-NNPI\", but is still restricted as NOFORN.\n\nNNPI is explicitly protected information and is not released to the general public without authority. Those who release even NNPI-U without authority may be administratively punished, and even criminally in the case of NNPI-C. NNPI is restricted from disclosure under the Arms Export Control Act, 22 USC §§2778 and 2794(7); such information is listed in the US Munitions List, 22 CFR §121.1, Category VI, paragraph (g). \n\nIn some instances, small events that would normally be reported as \"Events\" or LOC (Loss of Control) to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission from other licensees can be classified as NNPI-C. This designation differs for similar \"events\" that occur on a secret network, which are referred to as \"spillage\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7492018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7492018", "title": "Neo-medievalism", "text": "Neo-medievalism\n\nNeo-medievalism (or neomedievalism, new medievalism) is a term with a long history that has acquired specific technical senses in two branches of scholarship. In political theory about modern international relations, where the term is originally associated with Hedley Bull, it sees the political order of a globalized world as analogous to high-medieval Europe, where neither states nor the Church, nor other territorial powers, exercised full sovereignty, but instead participated in complex, overlapping and incomplete sovereignties. In literary theory about the use and abuse of texts and tropes from the Middle Ages in postmodernity. The use of \"neomedieval\" in this sense was popularized by the Italian medievalist Umberto Eco in his 1986 essay \"Dreaming of the Middle Ages\".\n\nThe idea of neomedievalism in political theory was first discussed in 1977 by theorist Hedley Bull in \"The Anarchical Society: A Study of Order in World Politics\" to describe the erosion of state sovereignty in the contemporary globalized world:It is also conceivable that sovereign states might disappear and be replaced not by a world government but by a modern and secular equivalent of the kind of universal political organisation that existed in Western Christendom in the Middle Ages. In that system no ruler or state was sovereign in the sense of being supreme over a given territory and a given segment of the Christian population; each had to share authority with vassals beneath, and with the Pope and (in Germany and Italy) the Holy Roman Emperor above. The universal political order of Western Christendom represents an alternative to the system of states which does not yet embody universal government.Thus Bull suggested society might move towards \"a new mediaevalism\" or a \"neo-mediaeval form of universal political order\", in which individual notions of rights and a growing sense of a \"world common good\" were undermining national sovereignty. He proposed that such a system might help \"avoid the classic dangers of the system of sovereign states by a structure of overlapping structures and cross-cutting loyalties that hold all peoples together in a universal society while at the same time avoiding the concentration inherent in a world government\", though \"if it were anything like the precedent of Western Christendom, it would contain more ubiquitous and continuous violence and insecurity than does the modern states system\".\n\nIn this reading, globalization has resulted in an international system which resembles the medieval one, where political authority was exercised by a range of non-territorial and overlapping agents, such as religious bodies, principalities, empires and city-states, instead of by a single political authority in the form of a state which has complete sovereignty over its territory. Comparable processes characterising Bull's \"new medievalism\" include the increasing powers held by regional organisations such as the European Union, as well as the spread of sub-national and devolved governments, such as those of Scotland and Catalonia. These challenge the exclusive authority of the state. Private military companies, multinational corporations and the resurgence of worldwide religious movements (e.g. political Islam) similarly indicate a reduction in the role of the state and a decentralisation of power and authority.\n\nStephen J. Kobrin in 1998 added the forces of the digital world economy to the picture of neomedievalism. In an article entitled \"Back to the Future: Neomedievalism and the Postmodern Digital World Economy\" in the \"Journal of International Affairs\", he argued that the sovereign state as we know itdefined within certain territorial bordersis about to change profoundly, if not to wither away, due in part to the digital world economy created by the Internet, suggesting that cyberspace is a trans-territorial domain operating outside of the jurisdiction of national law.\n\nAnthony Clark Arend also argued in his 1999 book \"Legal Rules and International Society\" that the international system is moving toward a \"neo-medieval\" system. He claimed that the trends that Bull noted in 1977 had become even more pronounced by the end of the twentieth century. Arend argues that the emergence of a \"neo-medieval\" system would have profound implications for the creation and operation of international law.\n\nAlthough Bull originally envisioned neomedievalism as a positive trend, it has its critics. Bruce Holsinger in \"Neomedievalism, Neoconservatism, and the War on Terror\" argues that neoconservatives \"have exploited neomedievalism's conceptual slipperiness for their own tactical ends.\" Similarly, Philip G. Cerny's \"Neomedievalism, Civil War and the New Security Dilemma\" (1998) also sees neomedievalism as a negative development and claims that the forces of globalization increasingly undermine nation-states and interstate forms of governance \"by cross-cutting linkages among different economic sectors and social bonds,\" calling globalization a \"durable disorder\" which eventually leads to the emergence of the new security dilemmas that had analogies in the Middle Ages. Cerny identifies six characteristics of a neomedieval world that contribute to this disorder: multiple competing institutions; lack of exogenous territorializing pressures both on sub-national and international levels; uneven consolidation of new spaces, cleavages, conflicts and inequalities; fragmented loyalties and identities; extensive entrenchment of property rights; and spread of the \"grey zones\" outside the law as well as black economy.\n\nAn early use of the term \"neo-medievalism\" in a sense like Umberto Eco's was in Isaiah Berlin's 1953 \"The Hedgehog and the Fox\": There is no kinship between him [Joseph de Maistre] and those who really did believe in the possibility of some kind of return neo-medievalists from Wackenroder and Görres and Cobbett to G. K. Chesterton, and Slavophils and Distributists and Pre-Raphaelites and other nostalgic romantics; for he believed, as Tolstoy also did, in the exact opposite: in the \"inexorable\" power of the present moment: in our inability to do away with the sum of conditions which cumulatively determine our basic categories, an order which we can never fully describe or, otherwise than by some immediate awareness of it, come to know. Then, in 1986, Umberto Eco said \"we are at present witnessing, both in Europe and America, a period of renewed interest in the Middle Ages, with a curious oscillation between fantastic neomedievalism and responsible philological examination\". Recently, the term has been used by various writers such as medieval historians who see it as the intersection between popular fantasy and medieval history as a term describing the post-modern study of medieval history.\n\nThe widespread interest in medieval themes in popular culture, especially computer games such as MMORPGs, films and television, neo-medieval music, and popular literature, has been called \"neomedieval\". Critics have discussed why medieval themes continue to fascinate audiences in a modern, heavily technological world. A possible explanation is the need for a romanticized historical narrative to clarify the confusing panorama of current political and cultural events.\n\nAcademics have paid increasing attention to neomedievalism, in what some see as a burgeoning field of study. Important works include Carol L. Robinson and Pamela Clements 2009 paper “Living with Neomedievalism,” in \"Studies in Medievalism\", Robinson and Clements’ anthology \"The Medieval in Motion: Neomedievalism in Film, Television and Electronic Games\" (forthcoming), a collection of papers from MEMS (Medieval Electronic Multimedia Organization), the academic journal \"Studies in Medievalism: Defining Neomedievalism(s)\", panels at the 2009 Annual International Congress on Medieval Studies in Kalamazoo, Michigan included “Neomedievalist Communities” and “Gaming Neomedievally”, and it was the official focus of the entire 22nd Annual International Conference on Medievalism, “Neomedievalisms” (2007).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32946771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32946771", "title": "Ong Ah Chuan v Public Prosecutor", "text": "Ong Ah Chuan v Public Prosecutor\n\nOng Ah Chuan v. Public Prosecutor is a landmark decision delivered in 1980 by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council on appeal from Singapore which deals with the constitutionality of section 15 of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973 (No. 5 of 1973) (now section 17 of the ) (\"MDA\"), and the mandatory death penalty by the Act for certain offences. The appellants contended that the presumption of trafficking under section 15 of the MDA violated Article 9(1) of the (now the ) and that the mandatory death penalty was arbitrary and violated Article 12(1) of the Constitution.\n\nDismissing the appeal, the Privy Council clarified several issues of Singapore law. It explained that the word \"law\" in Article 9(1) includes fundamental rules of natural justice. The court also held that Article 12(1) does not prohibit differentiation between classes of people, but requires that like should be compared with like. It also laid out the \"reasonable relation\" test to determine if legislation is in breach of Article 12(1).\n\n\"Ong Ah Chuan\" has been referred to in subsequent cases. In some of them, attempts have been made to argue that certain legal principles are fundamental rules of natural justice, and thus constitutionally protected by Article 9(1). There has also been academic discussion concerning whether fundamental rules of natural justice enable the courts to examine the substantive fairness or reasonableness of laws. The ruling in \"Ong Ah Chuan\" that the mandatory death penalty is constitutional has not been followed in later Privy Council decisions. These cases were distinguished by the Singapore Court of Appeal in \"Yong Vui Kong v. Public Prosecutor\" (2010) on the basis that the constitutions involved in those cases contained express prohibitions against inhuman or degrading punishment or treatment, which the Singapore Constitution lacks.\n\nThe reasonable relation test applied to Article 12(1) by the Privy Council has been applied in a number of local and foreign cases. It was reformulated into a three-stage test by the Court of Appeal in \"Public Prosecutor v. Taw Cheng Kong\" (1998). The Court applied a modified version of the test to situations involving the discriminatory application of neutral laws in \"Eng Foong Ho v. Attorney-General\" (2009), and expressed the view that Article 12(1) would only be infringed in such cases where there was intentional and arbitrary discrimination, or inequalities due to inadvertence or inefficiency on a very substantial scale. The element of arbitrariness was also mentioned by the Court in \"Chng Suan Tze v. Minister for Home Affairs\" (1988) – it said a law that allows a public authority to exercise arbitrary discretionary power is in violation of Article 12(1).\n\nThe case involved an appeal by two appellants, Ong Ah Chuan and Koh Chai Cheng, to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council – then Singapore's final appellate court – against their separate convictions under section 3 of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973 (\"MDA\"). by the High Court of Singapore, which were upheld by the Court of Criminal Appeal.\n\nOng Ah Chuan was charged for trafficking of heroin. Two narcotics officers witnessed the appellant putting a plastic bag into his car and followed him. The appellant drove to Bukit Timah Road, where he was arrested by the officers. The officers searched the appellant's car and found the heroin in his car. Koh Chai Cheng was charged for trafficking of heroin. The appellant brought the heroin into Singapore from Malaysia in order to sell it to a buyer, who was actually a police informer. The appellant was arrested when he was about to drive away from the meeting place and the heroin was discovered in the boot of his car.\n\nBefore the High Court, counsel for Ong submitted that since the accused had been carrying the drugs for personal purposes and not for the purposes of delivery or sale, the actions did not amount to trafficking within the meaning of the MDA. The accused also claimed that he had purchased the large quantity of heroin because it was cheaper and more convenient to buy it in bulk. The trial judges dismissed the defence and found that the accused had invented the story \"to escape the consequences of his criminal act\". Having found that the accused had been transporting the drugs, his act fell under the definition of \"traffic\" in the Act. He was convicted for trafficking heroin and sentenced to death.\n\nIn Koh Chai Cheng's case, he denied knowledge of the drugs and contended that they had been planted in the boot of his car by police informers after he had arrived in Singapore. The trial judges rejected the argument, and the accused was accordingly convicted.\n\nBoth Ong Ah Chuan and Koh Chai Cheng appealed to the Court of Criminal Appeal, which upheld the convictions and sentences. They sought and obtained leave to appeal to the Privy Council against the constitutionality of sections 15 and 29 of the MDA. Section 15 created a rebuttable presumption that if a person was in possession of an amount of drugs exceeding the minimum quantities specified in the section, the possession was for trafficking purposes. The effect of section 29 and the Second Schedule of the Act was to impose the mandatory death penalty for trafficking above a certain quantity of drugs.\n\nThree issues were raised by counsel for the appellants when the case went before the Privy Council:\n\n\nThe appellants' first submission was that the Court of Criminal Appeal had erred in deciding that the drugs found in the possession of the accused persons had been for trafficking purposes under section 15 of the MDA. This argument was rejected by the Privy Council.\n\nThe Privy Council's decision was delivered by Lord Diplock on 15 October 1980. His Lordship held that in Singapore, the offences of drug \"possession\" and drug \"trafficking\" are distinct from each other. Drug trafficking was an offence under section 3 of the MDA. Drug possession, on the other hand, was an offence under section 6 of the MDA. The cases of \"Poon Soh Har v. Public Prosecutor\" (1977) and \"Seow Koon Guan v. Public Prosecutor\" (1978) were cited as evidence of Singapore courts upholding this distinction. Where the accused was found to be \"transporting\" controlled drugs, it was held that the transporter's purpose would determine whether the offence was one of drug possession or drug trafficking. Trafficking entailed the moving of drugs for the purpose of transferring possession from the mover to some other person, whether this purpose was achieved or not.\n\nIt was observed by the Privy Council that section 15 of the MDA assigned various quantity levels to certain controlled drugs, such as for heroin. On securing proof that an accused possessed more than 2 grams of heroin, the courts could adopt a rebuttable presumption that such possession was for trafficking purposes, pursuant to section 3 of the MDA. It would be for the accused to rebut the presumption by proving that the possession of drugs above the limits set out under section 15 was not for trafficking purposes. Acquittal from the offence of drug trafficking could be secured if the accused could prove that the conveying of the drugs from one place to another was for the purpose of personal consumption.\n\nLord Diplock explained that the rationale for the section 15 presumption was the difficulty in proving the purpose of trafficking. In drug trafficking cases, the strongest attainable evidence was likely to be the act of transporting the drugs. Regardless of this, his Lordship held that even in the absence of section 15, it could be inferred that the transportation of a large quantity of drugs was for trafficking purposes. As a matter of common sense, the larger the quantity, the more likely it is for trafficking. Therefore, the appellants' argument that the Court of Criminal Appeal had erred in construing the presumption created by section 15(2) of the MDA was rejected.\n\nThe second argument of the counsel for the appellants was that even if the Court of Criminal Appeal had not erred in construing the presumption in section 15 of the MDA, the presumption was inconsistent with Article 9(1) of the Constitution.\n\nIn addressing this argument, Lord Diplock first clarified how the Constitution should be interpreted. Referring to the judgment by Lord Wilberforce in \"Minister of Home Affairs v. Fisher\" (1979), he affirmed that a constitution on the Westminster model should be interpreted not as an Act of Parliament, but as \"\"sui generis\", calling for principles of interpretation of its own, suitable to its character\". He also held that fundamental liberties in Part IV of the Constitution should be given a \"generous interpretation\" so as to give individuals the full measure of the liberties referred to.\n\nArticle 9(1) of the Constitution states: \"No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty save in accordance with law.\" Counsel for the Public Prosecutor argued that the word \"law\" in Article 9(1) included written law. Since Article 2(1) defined \"written law\" included all Acts in force in Singapore, all Acts which were validly passed by Parliament would be consistent with Article 9(1) even if they deprived a person of life or personal liberty. Being Acts in force in Singapore, they were \"in accordance with the law\".\n\nThe Privy Council rejected such an approach to interpreting the term \"in accordance with law\". Citing Article 4, which declares the Constitution to be the supreme law of Singapore and states that laws enacted by the Legislature which are inconsistent with the Constitution are void, the court maintained it had the duty to determine whether any Act of Parliament was inconsistent with the Constitution and thus void. A law that is void will not be in force in Singapore, and consequently, will not be grounds for depriving a person of his life or personal liberty under Article 9(1).\n\nIn line with the generous approach that should be taken when engaging in constitutional interpretation, the Privy Council interpreted the meaning of \"law\" in contexts such as the term \"in accordance with law\" as in Article 9(1) to refer to a system of law incorporating fundamental rules of natural justice. This interpretation was, in the court's view, justified, as \"[i]t would have been taken for granted by the makers of the Constitution that the 'law' to which citizens could have recourse for the protection of fundamental liberties assured to them by the Constitution would be a system of law that did not flout those fundamental rules\".\n\nElaborating, Lord Diplock stated that one of the fundamental rules of natural justice in the field of criminal law is that a person should not be punished for an offence unless it has been established to the satisfaction of an independent and unbiased tribunal that he committed it. This requires that there be material before the court logically probative of facts sufficient to constitute the offence.\n\nThe Privy Council then considered whether the presumption of trafficking under section 15 of the MDA was inconsistent with the Constitution. The appellants had argued that the presumption was inconsistent with the presumption of innocence, which was part of Singapore law by virtue of Article 9(1) of the Constitution.\n\nLord Diplock rejected this argument, and instead upheld the validity of a presumption of trafficking where possession of a quantity of prohibited drugs higher than the minimum specified in section 15 of the MDA has been proved. Where the difference between an offence and some lesser offence was the particular purpose with which that unlawful act was committed, there was nothing unfair about requiring the accused to prove his actual purpose. This was because the accused alone is armed with the knowledge of the purpose of the illegal act.\nThe section 15 presumption of trafficking was also held to be in accordance with law for the following reasons:\n\n\nSince the presumption in section 15 was rebuttable, it did not conflict with any fundamental rule of natural justice, and was logically probative of facts sufficient to constitute the offence. The presumption of trafficking was thus held to be consistent with Article 9(1) of the Constitution.\n\nThe appellants' contention concerning the mandatory death penalty, as understood by the Privy Council, was that the punishment was not in accordance with law within the meaning of Article 9(1) because the offence was so broadly drawn that it prevented the court from punishing offenders according to their individual blameworthiness.\n\nThe Privy Council clarified that it was for the Legislature of Singapore to decide whether there should be capital punishment in Singapore, and what offences should warrant capital punishment. It added that there was nothing unusual in a capital sentence being mandatory as its efficacy as a deterrent may diminish to some extent if it is not mandatory. At common law all capital sentences were mandatory, and this is still so for murder and offences against the President's person under the Penal Code.\n\nThe court also mentioned in passing that contending the constitutionality of capital punishment was foreclosed by the recognition in Article 9(1) that a person may be deprived of life in accordance with law.\n\nCounsel for the appellants contended that the mandatory nature of capital punishment imposed by the MDA forbids the court from imposing punishment on offenders according to their \"individual blameworthiness\". This contravened the principle of equality before the law stated in Article 12(1) of the Constitution because it forced the court to prescribe the highest penalty of death to an addict who supplies to a friend of heroin, and to mete out a less severe punishment for a drug dealer who sells to others a total of of heroin.\n\nArticle 12(1) states: \"All persons are equal before the law and entitled to the equal protection of the law.\" The Privy Council explained that the Article provides for all like persons to be treated alike, and prohibits laws that impose different punishments for individuals within the same class. However, the equality provision does not forbid discrimination in prescribing different punishments for different classes of individuals. These classes are differentiated by the circumstances of the offence committed. Such differentiation is consistent with Article 12(1) as long as the element that the Legislature adopts as the differentiating factor is not entirely arbitrary but bears a \"reasonable relation to the social object of the law\".\n\nApplying this reasonable relation test to the case, the Privy Council held that the mandatory death penalty was consistent with Article 12(1). This was because a reasonable relation exists between the social objective of the MDA and the differentiating factor – the quantity of drug involved in the offence. The objective of the MDA is to control the illicit drug trade, especially with regard to drugs that are highly addictive. This creates a social evil – one that the MDA seeks to prevent – which is said to be \"broadly proportional to the quantity of addictive drugs\" brought into the market. This accordingly justifies the severe punishment of the mandatory death penalty as it serves as a form of deterrence. In addition, Lord Diplock expressed the opinion that the appropriate boundary to be drawn between varying classes of persons is a question best left to the Legislature. He declined to comment on whether differences in circumstances justified the imposition of different punishments. Rather, the doctrine of separation of powers indicated that such \"questions of social policy\" are not within the purview of the judiciary. Since the appellants could not show that the differentiation amongst offenders on the basis of the quantity of the drug was arbitrary, the appeal on this ground was dismissed.\n\nIn the Privy Council case \"Haw Tua Tau v. Public Prosecutor\" (1981), the appellants criticized amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code (\"CPC\") that removed an accused person's right to make an unsworn statement not subject to cross-examination, and replaced it with a power exercisable by the court to draw an adverse inference if the accused person opts to remain silent after being warned about the possible consequences of doing so. They submitted that the changes violated the privilege against self-incrimination which was a fundamental rule of natural justice. Lord Diplock, speaking for the court, questioned if the right to silence is a fundamental rule of natural justice but found it unnecessary to decide this point as he held that the new CPC provisions provided an accused person with an inducement to testify but did not compel him or her to do so. In reaching this conclusion, the judge noted that \"[i]n considering whether a particular practice adopted by a court of law offends against a fundamental rule of natural justice, that practice must not be looked at in isolation but in light of the part which it plays in the complete judicial process\", and that \"what may properly be regarded by lawyers as rules of natural justice change with the times\".\n\nIn \"Public Prosecutor v. Mazlan bin Maidun\" (1992), the Court of Appeal held that the right to silence is related largely to the giving of evidence, and that there is no constitutional or statutory provision in Singapore protecting it. As such, to say it is a constitutional right in the form of a fundamental rule of natural justice would be to \"elevate an evidential rule to constitutional status\" despite the lack of \"explicit provision\" in the Constitution. This, in the opinion of the Court, required \"a degree of adventurous extrapolation\" in the interpretation of Article 9(1) which the Court did not consider justified.\n\nVictor V. Ramraj has suggested that there are four models of due process: the formal model, procedural model, procedural-privacy model, and full substantive model. Substantive due process, represented by the full substantive model, is concerned with the content or subject matter of a law. Procedural due process, its extreme form represented by the formal model, deals with the manner which a law, administrative justice or judicial task is carried out.\n\nNatural justice principles originated from the procedural elements of due process, but it is uncertain if substantive elements of due process are accepted in local law yet. \"Ong Ah Chuan\" is said to adopt the idea of procedural fairness. In the procedural model, courts go beyond a mere assessment of formal validity and inquire into the procedural fairness of legal processes. In Singapore, the current legal position is somewhere between the formal model as evidenced by the case of \"Jabar bin Kadermastan v. Public Prosecutor\" (1995), and the procedural model evidenced by \"Ong Ah Chuan\". In \"Jabar\", the Court of Appeal held that a law is valid and binding as long as it has been validly passed by Parliament. Consequently, whether the law is fair, just and reasonable does not matter.\n\nLim Chin Leng has opined that to accord principles of natural justice an elevated constitutional status may cause it to override statutes, which might contradict the Constitution which vests the law making power in the legislature. Similarly, Andrew J. Harding disagrees with the idea of \"substantive natural justice\" because, in his view, it cannot be shown that it was the Privy Council's intent to apply natural justice in a substantive sense, since this would mean that the court can strike down a provision for inconsistency with natural justice even if it satisfies the rational nexus test under Article 12(1) of the Constitution. It will also be hard to ascertain the limits of judicial power. However, the view has been expressed that such judicial activism would merely be the judiciary exercising its proper role. Furthermore, a judicial inquiry arguably involves both substantive and procedural aspects, so both concepts require no differentiation.\n\nDespite these academic opinions, at present the Singapore courts are still deferential to the exercise of Parliament's legislative powers and adopt a respectful attitude towards its pronouncements. In \"Lo Pui Sang v. Mamata Kapildev Dave\" (2008), it was held that the words \"save in accordance with law\" in Article 9(1) of the Constitution \"incline liberally in favour of legislative power, but the clear words cannot be altered by the court\". On the facts, assuming that the appellants had been deprived of personal liberty pursuant to certain statutory provisions, this had been carried out in accordance with law and thus was not unconstitutional.\n\nIn \"Ong Ah Chuan\", the Privy Council held that the argument that capital punishment is unconstitutional is foreclosed by Article 9(1) of the Constitution itself because it clearly states that a person can be deprived of his life \"in accordance with law\". The court further noted that \"[t]here is nothing unusual in a capital sentence being mandatory\" since at common law all capital sentences were mandatory, and that if a capital sentence was discretionary this might reduce its deterrent effect. Also, the prerogative of mercy is available to Good Samaritans who find themselves involved in drug trafficking cases. The court's ruling that the mandatory death penalty is constitutional was applied by the Federal Court of Malaysia in \"Public Prosecutor v. Lau Kee Hoo\" (1982).\n\nHowever, in the subsequent case \"Reyes v. The Queen\" (2002), the Privy Council found \"Ong Ah Chuan\" of limited assistance as it felt that at the time it was decided the jurisprudence on international human rights was \"rudimentary\". The appellant in \"Reyes\", who had been convicted of a double murder, appealed as to the constitutionality of the mandatory death sentence imposed on him. The Privy Council held that this penalty contravened the prohibition against inhuman or degrading punishment or treatment in section 7 of the Constitution of Belize. While recognizing that the Constitution provides for the prerogative of mercy by vesting power to alter punishments in the Governor-General acting on the advice of an Advisory Council. However, this power was executive and not judicial in nature, and its existence could not remedy the constitutional defect in the sentencing process. The Privy Council reached a similar conclusion in \"R. v. Hughes\" (2002) and \"Fox v. The Queen\" (2002). In \"Watson v. The Queen\" (2004), the court stated that \"[i]t is no\nlonger acceptable, nor is it any longer possible to say, as Lord Diplock did on behalf of the Board in \"Ong Ah Chuan v Public Prosecutor\" [1981] AC 648, 674, that there is nothing unusual in a death sentence being mandatory. ... [T]he mandatory penalty of death on conviction of murder long predated any international arrangements for the protection of\nhuman rights.\"\n\nK.S. Rajah has noted that Singapore, having been a United Nations member state since 21 September 1965, is deemed to have accepted the obligations in the United Nations Charter, which entails acceptance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 5 of the Universal Declaration states: \"No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.\" Furthermore, the European Convention on Human Rights applied to Singapore from October 1953 when it entered into force until 1963 when Singapore ceased to be part of the British Empire by becoming a state of Malaysia. Article 3 of the Convention prohibits torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. He said:\n\nRajah proposed that, in the light of the \"Reyes\", \"Hughes\" and \"Fox\" cases, the holding in \"Ong Ah Chuan\" that the mandatory death penalty is constitutional should no longer be relied on by the Singapore courts. Thus, provisions such as section 302 of the Penal Code, which imposes the penalty for the offence of murder, should be construed such that the death penalty is not mandatory in order to bring it into conformity with the Constitution pursuant to Article 162.\n\nHowever, in \"Yong Vui Kong v. Public Prosecutor\" (2010), the Court of Appeal distinguished Privy Council cases such as \"Reyes\", \"Hughes\", \"Fox\" and \"Watson\" on the ground that were decided in different textual contexts, as inhuman punishment was expressly prohibited by the constitutions of the respective jurisdictions from which the cases originated. Hence, those cases were strictly based on the issue of what kind of punishment would be considered inhuman and not directly related to the issue on appeal in \"Yong Vui Kong\", which was the meaning of the word \"law\" in Article 9(1) of the Constitution.\n\nSeveral local and foreign cases have adopted the Privy Council's approach in \"Ong Ah Chuan\" to interpreting Article 12(1) of the Constitution. In \"Nguyen Tuong Van v. Public Prosecutor\" (2005), the Court of Appeal reiterated Lord Diplock's statements and applied the reasonable relation test. Similarly, in \"Kok Hoong Tan Dennis v. Public Prosecutor\" (1996) \"Johari bin Kanadi v. Public Prosecutor\" (2008), \"Yong Vui Kong\", and \"Mohammad Faizal bin Sabtu v. Public Prosecutor\" (2012), the courts reaffirmed the position in \"Ong Ah Chuan\" that the differentia used to define a class of persons in a statute has to bear a reasonable relation to the social object of the statute.\n\n\"Ong Ah Chuan\" was found not to be applicable by the Court of Appeal in \"Ramalingam Ravinthran v. Attorney-General\" (2012). The case involved a constitutional challenge by the appellant against the Public Prosecutor for charging him with a capital offence when another accused person involved in the same drug trafficking incident was not. While the Court said that the Public Prosecutor was required to compare like with like when deciding what charge to levy on accused persons, the present case differed from the factual situation in \"Ong Ah Chuan\". In that case, the Privy Council was examining the constitutionality of a criminal offence, and held that an offence does not violate Article 12(1) so long as provides \"equal punitive treatment for similar legal guilt\". It is not necessary for an offence to distinguish between degrees of moral blameworthiness. On the other hand, the present case concerned the constitutionality of prosecutorial discretion. When making a charging decision, the Public Prosecutor:\n\nIn the Malaysian case \"Datuk Yong Teck Lee v. Public Prosecutor\" (1992), the plaintiff claimed that section 27(8) of the Police Act 1967 violated Article 8(1) of the Constitution of Malaysia, which provides that all persons are equal before the law and are entitled to the equal protection of the law. It was argued that this provision was violated because parliamentarians who participated in illegal demonstrations were subject to a higher mandatory fine as compared to non-parliamentarians who had committed similar offences. The High Court of Malaya applied the doctrine of reasonable classification and identified a rational relation between the differentia and the object of the statute.\n\nSimilarly, in the Indian case \"D.C. Bhatia v. Union of India\" (1995), the appellant challenged the constitutional validity of an amendment to the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958, that sought to limit the protection of rent-control legislation to areas where the monthly rent was less than 3,500 rupees. In evaluating the challenge, the Supreme Court of India applied \"Ong Ah Chuan\" and identified \"a rational connection between the legislative classifications and the object of the law\".\n\nThe current test applied to Article 12(1) of the Constitution is a three-stage test that was reformulated by the Court of Appeal in \"Public Prosecutor v. Taw Cheng Kong\" (1998). In determining whether section 37 of the Prevention of Corruption Act is discriminatory against Singaporean citizens, the Court cited \"Ong Ah Chuan\" for the proposition that equality simply ensures like treatment for individuals in like situations, and not that all persons should be treated equally. On this basis, and drawing on cases from foreign jurisdictions, the court set out the three-stage test as follows:\n\n\nThe Court of Appeal held that a law that is over- or under-inclusive can still bear a rational relation to the object of the legislation. The Court was of the view that it is impractical to expect the enactment of a piece of legislation to be \"seamless and perfect to cover every contingency\".\n\nThe reasonable relation test has since been applied in cases decided following \"Taw Cheng Kong\" such as \"Nguyen Tuong Van\". However, it has attracted academic criticism. Tan Yock Lin has commented that the Privy Council's approach in \"Ong Ah Chuan\" was a mere tautology as it provides a \"glib answer\" to any allegations of inequality. He argues that in determining a reasonable differentia, an ideal approach should extend beyond \"mere demonstration of rationality\".\n\nYap Po-Jen has argued that the test does not allow the court to take into consideration the \"wisdom or propriety of the legislative policy\". As long as the court can identify a rational nexus between a classification and the object of a statute, it will uphold the legislative policy even if it is \"invidiously discriminatory, unreasonable, irrational or unjust\".\n\nA legislative provision that does not employ a form of classification inconsistent with the Constitution may nevertheless be applied in a way that violates Article 12(1). The reasonable relation test has been developed and broadened to serve as a legal test for the constitutionality of such administrative decisions. This modified reasonable relation test considers the arbitrariness of the administrative decision. The notion of arbitrariness with regard to an equality clause was elucidated in the Indian case \"Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India\" (1978). Here, in reference to Article 14 of the Constitution of India (the equivalent of Article 12 of the Singapore Constitution), the Indian Supreme Court stated that along with the notion of reasonable classification, there must also be a consideration of arbitrariness in an equality clause. It highlighted:\n\n\"Tan Tek Seng v. Suruhanjaya Perkhidmatan Pendidikan\" (1996) applied the principle in \"Maneka Gandhi\". In discussing Article 8(1) of the Constitution of Malaysia, the court held that failure to adopt such a principle would result in an \"archaic and arcane approach\" to the interpretation of Article 8(1).\n\nSingapore courts have integrated the notion of arbitrariness into the reasonable relation test. In \"Chng Suan Tze v. Minister for Home Affairs\" (1988), the appellants contested the validity of sections 8 and 10 of the Internal Security Act (\"ISA\"), The judgment dealt with whether the exercise of discretionary powers by the Minister for Home Affairs under the ISA is objective or subjective, and thus whether it is subject to judicial review. The Court of Appeal held that sections 8 and 10 were not arbitrary as \"they provide for the exercise of the power to detain only for specific purposes\" and therefore \"bore a reasonable relation to the object of the law\". Further, the Court held that if the discretion is not subject to review by a court of law, the decision is also rendered arbitrary and contrary to Article 12(1).\n\nIn \"Eng Foong Ho v. Attorney-General\" (2009), the Court of Appeal was concerned with whether the decision by the Collector of Land Revenue to compulsorily acquire the piece of land on which the Jin Long Si Temple stood was contrary to Article 12(1) of the Constitution. Next to the temple was the Ramakrishna Mission and the Bartley Christian Church, but land belonging to these properties was not acquired. The appellants, who were the trustees of the temple land, argued, among other things, that the acquisition of that piece of land was against the equal protection clause as the State had discriminated against them in acquiring only their property and not the other two properties. The Court applied a modified reasonable relation test in determining the constitutionality of the land acquisition decision. It stated that to determine if it violated Article 12(1), \"[t]he question is whether there is a reasonable nexus between the state action and the objective to be achieved by the law\". The administration of a law \"may be unconstitutional if it amounts to intentional and arbitrary discrimination\". The mere existence of inequalities \"due to inadvertence or inefficiency\" is insufficient, unless it is on a \"very substantial scale\".\n\nApproaches differing from the \"Ong Ah Chuan\" reasonable relation test have been applied to guarantees of equal protection in other jurisdictions. The Supreme Court of the United States has adopted a framework that serves as an alternative to the reasonable relation test adopted in \"Ong Ah Chuan\". American jurisprudence on the Equal Protection Clause is based on a \"suspect classification\" model. Unlike the \"Ong Ah Chuan\" approach, this model encompasses three tiers of scrutiny. The level of scrutiny to be applied in each case is dependent upon the particular facts involved.\n\nIt has been suggested that a proportionality analysis safeguards equality better than the American three-tiered scrutiny approach. The test of proportionality in English law, which is applied to determine whether a fundamental right is appropriately restricted by legislation, has three limbs:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "37383506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37383506", "title": "Peruvian constitutional referendum, 1993", "text": "Peruvian constitutional referendum, 1993\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Peru on 31 October 1993. It followed the Alberto Fujimori's presidential coup on 5 April 1992. A new constitution was published on 4 September 1993, limiting the President to two terms of four years, creating a unicameral Congress. Constitutional amendments would be possible with either a referendum or a two-thirds majority in two successive Congresses. Referendums would also be possible if a petition had 0.3% of voters' signatures. After being approved by 52% of voters, the new constitution came into force on 29 December 1993.\n"}
{"id": "4404017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4404017", "title": "Prevention of Major Industrial Accidents Convention, 1993", "text": "Prevention of Major Industrial Accidents Convention, 1993\n\nPrevention of Major Industrial Accidents Convention, 1993 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1993, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the prevention of major industrial accidents...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 18 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "42821416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42821416", "title": "Radio Justice", "text": "Radio Justice\n\nRadio Justice is one of three programs directed by the Justice Report Agency, under the Balkan Investigative Reporting Network. Radio Justice is one component of the organization’s aims to increase the understanding of and support for the work of war crimes trials in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY).\n\nRadio Justice is a sub-program of BIRN BiH’s Justice Series Programme. Justice Series, launched in 2005, produces daily courtside reports and investigative reports and analyses of local and regional transitional justice. In 2007 Justice Series expanded to radio, due to the high demand for reportage on war crimes trials in audio format.\n\nInitially, BIRN BiH produced daily audio reports about war crimes trials held before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since then, the scope of Radio Justice has expanded. In 2010 the organization started to produce a weekly magazine about the most important trials conducted before the War Crimes Chamber of the Court of BiH. In 2011, Radio Justice expanded its reporting to the war crimes trials held before the Cantonal and District courts of BiH in order to support local courts.\n\nRadio Justice's three different programs are distributed to over 140 radio stations in BiH. They include daily audio reports, a Justice Report Weekly Magazine, and a monthly show entitled: Local Justice Under Spotlight.\n\nThe Weekly Magazine focuses exclusively on what it considers to be the most important trials before the Court of BiH today. Each trial discussed in the magazine is selected in accordance to the level of public interest and available quality of content. The magazine, which airs every Friday, consists of four trial reporting segments and a central topic titled 'In Focus'.\n\n'Local Justice Under Spotlight' is a 10-minute monthly radio edition of BIRN BiH realized in cooperation with the local contributor journalists. Each episode of 'Local Justice Under Spotlight' consists of up to 10 high quality reports from trials in different local Cantonal and District courts in BiH, as well as an 'In Focus' segment. It is aired on the first Monday of every month.\n\nAll radio content is available on BIRN BiH’s signature web site 'Justice Report', the Sound Cloud social network, and is also aired by the vast number of local radio outlets in the country.\n\nRadio outlets in BiH rely on BIRN BiH radio editions since due to the lack of human and financial resources, as well as specialised expertise on transitional justice, they are not able to put correspondents in war crime chambers in BiH or in the Hague. Thus BIRN BiH holds an important position in bringing the work of the judiciary of BiH and especially the ICTY, closer to the audience.\n\nAll of the radio editions are done in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian and are exclusively for the domestic and diaspora based audience. They are also available for download and/or streaming on the organization’s website.\n\nThe Radio Justice team produces approximately 650 daily radio reports, over 80 weekly radio magazines, and 12 monthly specials each year. So far over 2,500 radio reports have been aired on various stations within the country and region.\n\n"}
{"id": "48585165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48585165", "title": "SALt lamp", "text": "SALt lamp\n\nA SALt lamp is an LED lamp powered by the galvanic reaction of an anode with saline water. It also has a USB port to charge low-power mobile devices such as cellphones, smartphones, and mp3 players. The anode must be replaced approximately every six months and the saline water daily; sea water is usable. The SALt lamp was invented and is marketed by Aisa Mijeno, a Filipino inventor and entrepreneur. She is also a faculty member of Engineering at De La Salle University — Lipa, and a member of Greenpeace Philippines. The product concept was formed after living with the natives of the Butbut tribe for days relying only on kerosene lamps and moonlight to do evening chores.\n\n"}
{"id": "4185087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4185087", "title": "Sickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927", "text": "Sickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927\n\nSickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1927:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to sickness insurance for agricultural workers...\n\nThe principles contained in this convention were subsequently revised and included in ILO Convention C130.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 21 states. One state that has ratified, Uruguay, has subsequently denounced the treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "16997710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16997710", "title": "Statutory instrument", "text": "Statutory instrument\n\nIn many countries, a statutory instrument is a form of delegated legislation.\n\nStatutory instruments are the principal form of delegated or secondary legislation in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn England and Wales, statutory instruments (or \"regulations\") are primarily governed by the Statutory Instruments Act 1946, which replaced the system of statutory rules and orders governed by the Rules Publication Act 1893. Wales Statutory Instruments are published as a subseries of the UK statutory instrument series—for example, the Environment (Wales) Act 2016 (Commencement No. 3) Order 2017 is numbered \"2017No.714(W.171)\", meaning it is the 714th statutory instrument in the UK series and 171st in the Wales subseries.\n\nFollowing the 2016 EU membership referendum and the subsequent publication of the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill, there has been concern that its powers enabling ministers to issue statutory instruments under the bill may enable the government to bypass Parliament. Although this has been criticised by some as being undemocratic, draft regulations must be \"laid before\" Parliament, which may always demand a full debate on contentious issues.\n\nIn Scotland, statutory instruments were governed by the Statutory Instruments Act 1946 following devolution until the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010 came into force. Unlike Wales Statutory Instruments, Scottish Statutory Instruments are not published as a subseries of the UK series—instead, they are published separately by the Queen's Printer for Scotland. However, any UK statutory instruments dealing with reserved matters and applying only to Scotland are published in a UK subseries, such as the Insolvent Companies (Reports on Conduct of Directors) (Scotland) Rules 2016 numbered \"2016No.185(S.1)\".\n\nIn Northern Ireland, delegated legislation is organised into statutory rules, rather than statutory instruments.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland the term \"statutory instrument\" is given a much broader meaning than under the UK legislation. Under the Statutory Instruments Act 1947 a statutory instrument is defined as being \"an order, regulation, rule, scheme or bye-law made in exercise of a power conferred by statute.\"\n\nHowever, only certain statutory instrument are published and numbered by the Stationery Office, this being mostly where the statute enabling the enactment of delegated legislation required that any such legislation be laid before the Houses of the Oireachtas.\n\nTwo close equivalents of similar operation are \n\nSimilarly to the United Kingdom, national and state/provincial governments in Australia and Canada also call their delegated legislation statutory instruments.\nCanada uses statutory instruments for proclamations by the Queen of Canada. For example, the Proclamation of the Queen of Canada on April 17, 1982 brought into force the Constitution Act 1982, the UK parts of which are known as the Canada Act 1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "14052567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14052567", "title": "Thomas v. Review Board of the Indiana Employment Security Division", "text": "Thomas v. Review Board of the Indiana Employment Security Division\n\nThomas v. Review Board of the Indiana Employment Security Division, 450 U.S. 707 (1981), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that Indiana's denial of unemployment compensation benefits to petitioner violated his First Amendment right to free exercise of religion, under \"Sherbert v. Verner\".\n\nThomas, a Jehovah's Witness, was initially hired to work in his employer's roll foundry, which fabricated sheet steel for a variety of industrial uses, but when the foundry was closed, he was transferred to a department that fabricated turrets for military tanks. Since all of the employer's remaining departments were engaged directly in the production of weapons, petitioner asked to be laid off. When that request was denied, he quit, asserting that his religious beliefs prevented him from participating in the production of weapons. He was denied unemployment compensation benefits under the Indiana Employment Security Act.\n\nAt an administrative hearing, Thomas testified that he believed that contributing to the production of arms violated his religion, but he could, in good conscience, engage indirectly in the production of materials that might be used ultimately to fabricate arms. The hearing referee found that petitioner had terminated his employment because of his religious convictions but held that petitioner was not entitled to benefits because his voluntary termination was not based upon a \"good cause [arising] in connection with [his] work,\" as required by the Indiana statute.\n\nThe Review Board of the Indiana Employment Security Division affirmed, but the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the Indiana statute, as applied, improperly burdened petitioner's right to the free exercise of his religion. The Indiana Supreme Court vacated on petitioner's free exercise right, the burden justified by legitimate state interests.\n\nThe majority held that Indiana's denial of unemployment compensation violated Thomas' right to free exercise of religion.\n\nChief Justice Burger delivered the opinion of the Court and was joined by Justices Brennan, Stewart, White, Marshall, and Stevens. Justice Blackmun filed a statement concurring in part and in the result.\n\nJustice Rehnquist filed a dissenting opinion.\n\n"}
{"id": "46341991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46341991", "title": "Tolerance Act (Sweden)", "text": "Tolerance Act (Sweden)\n\nThe Tolerance Act () was a Swedish law, enacted by Gustav III of Sweden 24 January 1781. It guaranteed freedom of religion and full citizen rights for all Christian immigrants and residents in Sweden. \n\nSince the Uppsala Synod of 1593, Lutheranism had officially been the only religion allowed in Sweden, though the foreign embassies were given dispensation. The Tolerance Act was introduced in line with the ideals of the Age of Enlightenment. There were also an economical aspect, as it would make it easier for foreigners to work in Sweden. By the Act, all Christian immigrants were granted full freedom of religion and guaranteed their right to bring up their children in their faith as well. This act was followed in 1782 by the \"Judereglementet\" (The Jew's Law), which guaranteed the freedom of religion for Jewish immigrants. This Act was a step toward full freedom of religion in Sweden. However, they only applied to immigrants and foreigners, while the Lutheran Swedish citizens were still prohibited their freedom of religion through the \"konventikelplakatet\". \n\nThe Tolerance Act was replaced by the Dissenter Acts (Sweden) from the 1850s, which guaranteed freedom of religion to all Swedish citizens. \n\nThe final act was the law of 1951, which allowed for complete freedom of conscience by allowing citizens from leaving their religion without replacing it with another one, thereby formally also allowing atheism. \n\n"}
{"id": "5927556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5927556", "title": "Trade Disputes Act 1906", "text": "Trade Disputes Act 1906\n\nThe Trade Disputes Act 1906 (6 Edw. 7 c. 47) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom passed under the Liberal government of Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman. The Act declared that unions could not be sued for damages incurred during a strike.\n\nIts key reform was to add the famous words, now found in the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992, section 219, to the Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act 1875 that, \"An act done in pursuance of an agreement or combination by two or more persons shall, if done in contemplation or furtherance of a trade dispute, not be actionable unless the act, if done without any such agreement or combination, would be actionable.\"\n\nThe immediate cause for the Act was a trio of cases in the House of Lords, which had for the first time imposed damages in tort on trade unions for going on strike. Previously, the legal status of trade unions as an \"unincorporated association\", was accepted to mean that they did not have legal standing to sue, or be sued, in court.\n\nBefore the change, the two important cases were \"Lumley v Gye\" (1857) and \"Allen v Flood\" (1897). \"Lumley\" did not concern trade unions, but invented a new legal principle. An actress, Miss Wagner, had been engaged by Mr. Lumley to sing at Her Majesty's Theatre. Mr. Gye, who ran Covent Garden Theatre, procured her to break her contract with Mr. Lumley by promising to pay her more. He was held liable to Mr. Lumley for inducing a breach of contract. This is a principle readily applicable to union situations. In the case of a strike, a union effectively persuades or decides for workers to go on strike, in breach of their contracts with employers. But in \"Allen\", the House of Lords held that a trade union could not be sued by a non-union worker for pressuring the employer into not hiring them. They said that even though the union's motive was malicious, the employer not hiring the non-union worker was lawful.\n\nBut then, \"Taff Vale Railway Co v Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants\" (1901) surprised everyone by saying that trade unions could be held liable for damages caused by industrial action. The Lords said if unions can harm people, they are bodies capable of being sued. The Labour movement was so incensed that it met at Farringdon Town Hall and resolved to form a Labour Party to get the decision reversed in Parliament. Two further cases followed worsening the possibility to collectively bargain. \"Quinn v Leatham\" ended all possibilities of a closed shop and \"South Wales Miners' Federation v Glamorgan Coal Co\" held that a union which induced a breach of contract had no defence of an \"honest motive\" (for instance, wanting to improve working conditions and get fair pay for employees).\n\nThe Liberal Party was returned with a large majority in the House of Commons in the general election of 1906. A minority in the new Cabinet, including Campbell-Bannerman and John Burns, wanted to introduce a Bill stating that trade unions could not be liable for damages. However the majority opinion in the Cabinet, led by H. H. Asquith and other members with legal experience, argued that this would make unions too powerful and instead proposed to limit the application of the law of agency in respect to union activities. The latter faction prevailed and a Bill was introduced on 28 March 1906 by the Solicitor General for England and Wales, William Robson. Many of the radical MPs did not understand the complicated legal wording of the Bill and so trade union MPs, led by W. Hudson, introduced their own Bill.\n\nThe Private Members' Bill was severely criticised by the Attorney General for England and Wales, John Lawson Walton, \"who tore it to pieces in his best forensic style\". Without warning his colleagues Campbell-Bannerman spoke in favour of the trade unionists' Bill:\n\nI have never been, and I do not profess to be now, very intimately acquainted with the technicalities of the question, or with the legal points involved in it. The great object then was, and still is, to place the two rival powers of capital and labour on an equality so that the fight between them, so far as fight is necessary, should be at least a fair one. ...I always vote on the second reading of a Bill with the understood reservation of details, which are to be considered afterwards. That is the universal practice. Shall I repeat that vote today? [Cries of \"Yes\".] I do not see any reason under the sun why I should not.\n\nThe Conservative MP George Wyndham said he had heard Campbell-Bannerman's peroration with blank amazement as it was incredible that he should on Friday request that MPs vote for a Bill which his Attorney-General had strongly denounced on Wednesday. Asquith and the rest of the Government opposition to the trade unionists' Bill argued against it inside the Cabinet but the outcome of the Committee dealing with the Bill in August was to favour the trade unions' alternative.\n\nDuring the Second Reading of the Trade Disputes Bill, Sir William Robson noted that the Bill was intended to prevent \"industrial conflict being the subject of litigation\".\n\nGeorge Dangerfield wrote in his \"The Strange Death of Liberal England\":\n\nIt gave the Unions an astounding, indeed an unlimited immunity. Labour was jubilant. The most powerful Government in history had been compelled, by scarcely more than a single show of power, to yield to the just demands of organized workers.\n\nThe English constitutional theorist A. V. Dicey argued that the Act conferred\n\nupon a trade union a freedom from civil liability for the commission of even the most heinous wrong by the union or its servant, and in short confer[red] upon every trade union a privilege and protection not possessed by any other person or body of persons, whether corporate or incorporate... [this Act] makes a trade union a privileged body exempted from the ordinary law of the land. No such privileged body has ever before been deliberately created by an English Parliament.\n\nThe economist Joseph Schumpeter in his book \"Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy\" said of the Act:\n\nIt is difficult, at the present time, to realize how this measure must have struck people who still believed in a state and in a legal system that centered in the institution of private property. For in relaxing the law of conspiracy in respect to peaceful picketing—which practically amounted to legalization of trade-union action implying the threat of force—and in exempting trade-union funds from liability in action for damages \"for torts\"—which practically amounted to enacting that trade unions could do no wrong—this measure in fact resigned to the trade unions part of the authority of the state and granted to them a position of privilege which the formal extension of the exemption to employers' unions was powerless to affect.\n\nIt remained in force until 1971. For the centenary of the Act, the Trades Union Congress campaigned for a Trade Union Freedom Bill.\n\nThe Act was one of the most significant pieces of legislation for the 20th century, and was the cornerstone of the whole country's system of collective bargaining. It was also heavily influential abroad. The right to strike is now a \"fundamental human right\". In \"London Underground Ltd v NUR\", Millett LJ said,\n\"a right which was first conferred by Parliament in 1906, which has been enjoyed by trade unions ever since and which is today recognised as encompassing a fundamental human right\".\n"}
{"id": "2666688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2666688", "title": "Treaty of Warsaw (1970)", "text": "Treaty of Warsaw (1970)\n\nThe Treaty of Warsaw (, Polish: Układ PRL-RFN) was a treaty between West Germany and the People's Republic of Poland. It was signed by Chancellor Willy Brandt and Prime Minister Józef Cyrankiewicz at the Presidential Palace on 7 December 1970, and it was ratified by the German Bundestag on 17 May 1972.\n\nIn the treaty, both sides committed themselves to nonviolence and accepted the existing border—the Oder-Neisse line, imposed on Germany by the Allied powers at the 1945 Potsdam Conference following the end of World War II. This had been a quite sensitive topic since then, as Poland was concerned that a German government might seek to reclaim some of the former eastern territories. From the Polish perspective, the transfer of these regions was considered to be a compensation for the former Polish territory east of the Curzon Line (\"Kresy\"), which had been annexed by the Soviet Union in 1939.\n\nIn West Germany, Brandt was heavily criticised by the conservative CDU/CSU opposition, who marked his policy as a betrayal of national interests. At the time the treaty was signed, it was not seen as the last word on the Polish border in West Germany, because Article IV of this treaty stated that previous treaties like the Potsdam Agreement were not superseded by this latest agreement, so the provisions of this treaty could be changed by a final peace treaty between Germany and the Allies of World War II—as provided for in the Potsdam Agreement.\n\nThe Treaty of Warsaw was an important element of the \"Ostpolitik\", put forward by Chancellor Brandt and supported by his ruling Social Democratic Party of Germany. In the aftermath of the 1990 Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany, the Oder-Neisse line was reaffirmed without any reservation with the German-Polish Border Treaty, signed on 14 November 1990 by re-united Germany and Poland.\n\n\n"}
