{"id": "20278369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20278369", "title": "Afrocentric education", "text": "Afrocentric education\n\nAfrocentric education is designed to empower peoples of the African diaspora. A central premise behind it is that many Africans have been subjugated by limiting their awareness of themselves and indoctrinating them with ideas that work against them. Like educational leaders of other cultures, proponents assert that what educates one group of people does not necessarily educate and empower another group, so they assert educational priorities distinctly for the \"Africans\" in a given context.\n\nAfrocentric education has, as one of its tenets, the decolonization of the African mind. The central objective in decolonizing the African mind is to overthrow the authority that alien traditions may exercise.\n\nEducation was understood to be a process of harnessing the inner potential, and thus it is imperative to equip the youth with an awareness of their identity. The term \"miseducation\" was coined by Dr. Carter G. Woodson to describe the process of systematically depriving African Americans of their knowledge of self. Dr. Woodson believed that miseducation was the root of the problems of the masses of the African-American community and that if the masses of the African-American community were given the correct knowledge and education from the beginning, they would not be in the situation that they find themselves in today. Dr. Woodson argues in his book \"The Mis-Education of the Negro\" that African Americans often valorize European culture to the detriment of their own culture.\n\nThe problem concerning formal education is seen by Afrocentrists to be that African students are taught to perceive the world through the eyes of another culture, and unconsciously learn to see themselves as an insignificant part of their world. An Afrocentric education does not necessarily wish to isolate Africans from a Eurocentric education system but wishes to assert the autonomy of Africans and encompass the cultural uniqueness of all learners.\n\nA school based on African values, it is believed, would eliminate the patterns of rejection and alienation that engulf so many African-American school children, especially males. The movement for African-centered education is based on the assumption that a school immersed in African traditions, rituals, values, and symbols will provide a learning environment that is more congruent with the lifestyles and values of African-American families.\n\nThis has been an active area of Afrocentrism for many decades.\n\nEdward Wilmot Blyden, an Americo-Liberian educator and diplomat active in the pan-Africa movement, perceived a change in perception taking place among Europeans towards Africans in his 1908 book \"African Life and Customs\", which originated as a series of articles in the Sierra Leone \"Weekly News\". In it, he proposed that Africans were beginning to be seen simply as different and not as inferior, in part because of the work of English writers such as Mary Kingsley and Lady Lugard, who traveled and studied in Africa. Such an enlightened view was fundamental to refute prevailing ideas among Western peoples about African cultures and Africans.\n\nBlyden used that standpoint to show how the traditional social, industrial, and economic life of Africans untouched by \"either European or Asiatic influence\", was different and complete in itself, with its own organic wholeness. In a letter responding to Blyden's original series of articles, Fante journalist and politician J. E. Casely Hayford commented, \"It is easy to see the men and women who walked the banks of the Nile\" passing him on the streets of Kumasi. Hayford suggested building a university to preserve African identity and instincts. In that university, the history chair would teach\n\nThe exchange of ideas between Blyden and Hayford embodied the fundamental concepts of Afrocentrism.\n\nIn the United States, during the early 20th century and the Harlem Renaissance, many writers and historians gathered in major cities, where they began to work on documenting achievements of Africans throughout history, in United States and Western life. They began to set up institutions to support scholarly work in African-American history and literature, such as the American Negro Academy (now the Black Academy of Letters and Arts), founded in Washington, DC, in 1874. Some men were self-taught; others rose through the academic system. Creative writers and artists claimed space for African-American perspectives.\n\nLeaders included bibliophile Arthur Schomburg, who devoted his life to collecting literature, art, slave narratives, and other artifacts of the African diaspora. In 1911, along with John Edward Bruce, he founded the Negro Society for Historical Research in Yonkers, New York. The value of Schomburg's personal collection was recognized, and it was purchased by the New York Public Library in 1926 with the aid of a Carnegie Corporation grant. It became the basis of what is now called the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, based in Harlem, New York. Schomburg used the money from the sale of his collection for more travel and acquisition of materials.\n\nHubert Henry Harrison used his intellectual gifts in street lectures and political activism, influencing early generations of Black Socialists and Black Nationalists. Dr. Carter G. Woodson co-founded the Association for the Study of African American Life and History (as it is now called) in 1915, as well as \"The Journal of Negro History\", so that scholars of black history could be supported and find venues for their work.\n\nAmong their topics, editors of publications such as NAACP's \"The Crisis\" and \"Journal of Negro History\" sought to include articles that countered the prevailing view that Sub-Saharan Africa had contributed little of value to human history that was not the result of incursions by Europeans and Arabs. Historians began to theorize that Ancient Egyptian civilization was the culmination of events arising from the origin of the human race in Africa. They investigated the history of Africa from that perspective.\n\nIn March 1925, Schomburg published an essay \"The Negro Digs Up His Past\" in an issue of the \"Survey Graphic\" devoted to Harlem's intellectual life. The article had widespread distribution and influence, as he detailed the achievements of people of African descent. Alain Locke included the essay in his collection \"The New Negro\".\n\nAfrocentrists claimed \"The Mis-Education of the Negro\" (1933) by Carter G. Woodson, an African-American historian, as one of their foundational texts. Woodson critiqued education of African Americans as \"mis-education\" because he held that it denigrated the black while glorifying the white. For these early Afrocentrists, the goal was to break what they saw as a vicious cycle of the reproduction of black self-abnegation. In the words of \"The Crisis\" editor W. E. B. Du Bois, the world left African Americans with a \"double consciousness,\" and a sense of \"always looking at one's self through the eyes of others, of measuring one's soul by the tape of a world that looks on in amused contempt and pity.\"\n\nIn his early years, W. E. B. Du Bois, researched West African cultures and attempted to construct a pan-Africanist value system based on West African traditions. In the 1950s Du Bois envisioned and received funding from Ghanaian president Kwame Nkrumah to produce an \"Encyclopedia Africana\" to chronicle the history and cultures of Africa. Du Bois died before being able to complete his work. Some aspects of Du Bois's approach are evident in work by Cheikh Anta Diop in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nDu Bois inspired a number of authors, including Drusilla Dunjee Houston. After reading his work \"The Negro\" (1915), Houston embarked upon writing her \"Wonderful Ethiopians of the Ancient Cushite Empire\" (1926). The book was a compilation of evidence related to the historic origins of Cush and Ethiopia, and assessed their influences on Greece.\n\nThe 1960s and 1970s were times of social and political ferment. In the U.S. were born new forms of Black Nationalism, Black Power and the Black Arts Movements, all began to be driven, to a degree, driven to some degree by an identification with \"Mother Africa.\" Afrocentric scholars and Black youth also challenged Eurocentric ideas in academia.\n\nThe work of Cheikh Anta Diop became very influential. In the following decades, histories related to Africa and the diaspora gradually incorporated a more African perspective. Since that time, Afrocentrists have increasingly seen African peoples as the makers and shapers of their own histories.\n\n\"You have all heard of the African Personality; of African democracy, of the African way to socialism, of negritude, and so on. They are all props we have fashioned at different times to help us get on our feet again. Once we are up we shan't need any of them any more. But for the moment it is in the nature of things that we may need to counter racism with what Jean-Paul Sartre has called an anti-racist racism, to announce not just that we are as good as the next man but that we are much better.\"\n—Chinua Achebe, 1965\n\nIn this context, ethnocentric Afrocentrism was not intended to be essential or permanent, but was a consciously fashioned strategy of resistance to the Eurocentrism of the time. Afrocentric scholars adopted two approaches: a deconstructive rebuttal of what they called \"the whole archive of European ideological racism\" and a reconstructive act of writing new self-constructed histories.\n\nAt a 1974 UNESCO symposium in Cairo titled \"The Peopling of Ancient Egypt and the Decipherment of Meroitic Script\", Cheikh Anta Diop brought together scholars of Egypt from around the world.\n\nKey texts from this period include:\n\n\nSome Afrocentric writers focused on study of indigenous African civilizations and peoples, to emphasize African history separate from European or Arab influence. Primary among them was Chancellor Williams, whose book \"The Destruction of Black Civilization: Great Issues of a Race from 4500 B.C. to 2000 A.D.\" set out to determine a \"purely African body of principles, value systems (and) philosophy of life\".\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, Afrocentrism increasingly became seen as a tool for addressing social ills and a means of grounding community efforts toward self-determination and political and economic empowerment.\n\nIn his (1992) article \"Eurocentrism vs. Afrocentrism\", US anthropologist Linus A. Hoskins wrote:\n\nThe vital necessity for African people to use the weapons of education and history to extricate themselves from this psychological dependency complex/syndrome as a necessary precondition for liberation. [...] If African peoples (the global majority) were to become Afrocentric (Afrocentrized), ... that would spell the ineluctable end of European global power and dominance. This is indeed the fear of Europeans. ... Afrocentrism is a state of mind, a particular subconscious mind-set that is rooted in the ancestral heritage and communal value system.\nAmerican educator Jawanza Kunjufu made the case that hip hop culture, rather than being creative expression of the culture, was the root of many social ills. For some Afrocentrists, the contemporary problems of the ghetto stemmed not from race and class inequality, but rather from a failure to inculcate Black youth with Afrocentric values.\n\nIn the West and elsewhere, the European, in the midst of other peoples, has often propounded an exclusive view of reality; the exclusivity of this view creates a fundamental human crisis. In some cases, it has created cultures arrayed against each other or even against themselves. Afrocentricity’s response certainly is not to impose its own particularity as a universal, as Eurocentricity has often done. But hearing the voice of African American culture with all of its attendant parts is one way of creating a more sane society and one model for a more humane world. –Asante, M. K. (1988)\n\nIn 1997, US cultural historian Nathan Glazer described Afrocentricity as a form of multiculturalism. He wrote that its influence ranged from sensible proposals about inclusion of more African material in school curricula to what he called senseless claims about African primacy in all major technological achievements. Glazer argued that Afrocentricity had become more important due to the failure of mainstream society to assimilate all African Americans. Anger and frustration at their continuing separation gave black Americans the impetus to reject traditions that excluded them.\n\nToday, Afrocentricity takes many forms, including striving for a more multicultural and balanced approach to the study of history and sociology. Afrocentrists contend that race still exists as a social and political construct. They argue that for centuries in academia, Eurocentric ideas about history were dominant: ideas such as blacks having no civilizations, no written languages, no cultures, and no histories of any note before coming into contact with Europeans. Further, according to the views of some Afrocentrists, European history has commonly received more attention within the academic community than the history of sub-Saharan African cultures or those of the many Pacific Island peoples. Afrocentrists contend it is important to divorce the historical record from past racism. Molefi Kete Asante's book \"Afrocentricity\" (1988) argues that African-Americans should look to African cultures \"\"as a critical corrective to a displaced agency among Africans\".\" Some Afrocentrists believe that the burden of Afrocentricity is to define and develop African agency in the midst of the cultural wars debate. By doing so, Afrocentricity can support all forms of multiculturalism.\n\nAfrocentrists argue that Afrocentricity is important for people of all ethnicities who want to understand African history and the African diaspora. For example, the Afrocentric method can be used to research African indigenous culture. Queeneth Mkabela writes in 2005 that the Afrocentric perspective provides new insights for understanding African indigenous culture, in a multicultural context. According to Mkabela and others, the Afrocentric method is a necessary part of complete scholarship and without it, the picture is incomplete, less accurate, and less objective.\n\nStudies of African and African-diaspora cultures have shifted understanding and created a more positive acceptance of influence by African religious, linguistic and other traditions, both among scholars and the general public. For example, religious movements such as Vodou are now less likely to be characterized as \"mere superstition\", but understood in terms of links to African traditions.\n\nIn recent years Africana Studies or Africology departments at many major universities have grown out of the Afrocentric \"Black Studies\" departments formed in the 1970s. Rather than focusing on black topics in the African diaspora (often exclusively African American topics), these reformed departments aim to expand the field to encompass all of the African diaspora. They also seek to better align themselves with other University departments and find continuity and compromise between the radical Afrocentricity of the past decades and the multicultural scholarship found in many fields today.\n\nAfrican Centered Leadership-Fellowship (ACL-F)\n2000\n\nDr. Uhuru Hotep, co-director of the Kwame Ture Leadership Institute, established an ethnocentric approach to leadership specifically based on the four principles of restoration of sovereignty, Sankofa, Maat restoration, and Johari Sita installation.\n\nRestoration of sovereignty is a concept that surrounds cultural, political and economic entities of society. Sovereignty is synyonmous with self-determination. In the tradition of a self-sufficient creation of communities, seshemet (leadership) was developed to restore the Moroon tradition of kilombo construction.\n\nSankofa is a leadership technique of Ghana that emphasizes living in the present to learn from the past. This concept requires its followers to learn about the contributions of their ancestral leaders and to continue with their struggles. It mandates that African centered leaders reconnect with their ancestors.\n\nMaat restoration is a collaboration of the central themes of truth, justice, order, harmony, balance, reciprocity and propriety. which is based on the teachings of ancient Kemet. This concept is characterized by the restoring of public confidence and the promotion of psychological and fiscal prosperity among the leaders and their followers.\n\nJohari Sita is a multifaceted Afrocentric approach to leadership-followership development. It can best be described as the processes, procedures and practices of ACL-F. This model of leadership is the foundation for nationwide workshops called \"Preparing African Youth for 21st Century Leadership and Service.\"\n\nThe internal loci of control for Africa centered leaders and followers are contrary to the political and financial dependency of followers of external loci of control of many mainstream middle class Black American leadership practices.\n\nFreedom Home Academy (Chicago, Illinois)\n\nImhotep Academy (Atlanta, Georgia)\n\nKamali Academy (New Orleans, Louisiana)\n\nLittle Sun People (Brooklyn, New York)\n\nMarcus Garvey School (Los Angeles, California)\n\nNationHouse (Washington, D.C.)\n\nPaige Academy (Boston, Massachusetts)\n\nRoots Activity Learning Center (Washington, D.C.)\n\nSankofa Academy (Houston, Texas)\n\nSeneca Village Montessori School (Brooklyn, New York)\n\nUjaama School (Washington, D.C.)\n\nBetty Shabazz International Charter School (Chicago, Illinois)\n\nImhotep Institute Charter High School (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)\n\nRoots Public Charter School (Washington, D.C.)\n\nSankofa Freedom Academy Charter School (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)\n\nTimbuktu Academy of Science and Technology (Detroit, Michigan)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10037361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10037361", "title": "Agency for the Performing Arts", "text": "Agency for the Performing Arts\n\nAPA (also known as Agency for the Performing Arts) is one of the largest diversified talent agencies in Los Angeles with headquarters in Beverly Hills, New York, Nashville and London. Founded in 1962 in New York by a group of former MCA agents, the company represents actors, writers, producers, showrunners, directors, performers, physical production services, film studios, and luxury and lifestyle brands across all media platforms worldwide. The agency also packages feature films, as well as television series such as \"24\", \"\", \"Ash vs Evil Dead\", \"Hell on Wheels\", \"Grimm\", \"The Librarians\", \"Scream\", \"Houdini & Doyle\", \"Home Improvement\" and \"Roseanne\".\n\nAPA was founded in New York in 1962 by former MCA executives David Baumgarten (c. 1917–1995), Roger Vorce (1929–2018) and Harvey Litwin (born c. 1931). Early clients included Rowan & Martin, Victor Borge, Johnny Cash, Tina Turner, Rosemary Clooney, Liberace, The Doors and Harry Belafonte.\n\nThe agency’s divisions include Talent, Feature and Television Literary, Alternative & Factual Programming, Intellectual Property, Physical Production, Comedy Touring, Concert Touring, Branding + Digital, and Speakers & Lecturers. APA is the 7th largest talent agency in the United States after William Morris Endeavor, Creative Artists Agency, International Creative Management, United Talent Agency, Paradigm Talent Agency, and The Gersh Agency; they are larger in size than Innovative Artists, Abrams Artists Agency, and Don Buchwald & Associates.\n\n"}
{"id": "42706228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42706228", "title": "Axeman (film)", "text": "Axeman (film)\n\nAxeman (originally released as Axeman at Cutter's Creek) is a 2013 horror film written and directed by Joston Theney. The film had a limited theatrical release beginning February 14, 2013, and was released to DVD on May 6, 2014. It stars Chantelle Albers as a young woman that finds herself being terrorized by an axe-wielding killer.\n\nIn a cabin by Cutter's Creek, three bank robbers are murdered by an axe-wielding mountain man. Later, a group of friends, led by Brian, are brought to the same cabin by a guide, who is apprehensive about being in the area. After settling in, Brian mentions that the reason he got the cabin for such a low price is because it supposedly once belonged to a family that was massacred by the Axeman, an unidentified serial killer whose reign of terror ended as mysteriously as it started. When the discussion concludes, Randy goes off to spy on Vivian, and is murdered by the Axeman, who rips his head off.\n\nThe next morning, Doug gets into an argument with his girlfriend, Cassidy, accusing her of still having feelings for her ex, Brian, who is now dating Cassidy's best friend, Stacy. Doug storms off into the woods, where he stumbles onto the money that the bank robbers stole. While looking for somewhere to hide the cash, Doug is impaled and dismembered by the Axeman, his death going unnoticed by his friends, who are searching for Randy. Everyone soon regroups at the cabin, and Cassidy, unsatisfied with every explanation that they can come up with for why Randy, and now Doug, are gone, leaves to continue searching for them alone.\n\nTammy enters the garage, where she uncovers the robbers' money, and is forced to hide when the Axeman enters with her girlfriend, Liz, who he has fatally wounded. Before he can finish Liz off, the Axeman is distracted by a knock on the door, and answers it to reveal it is the sheriff, who he identifies himself to as \"Bill\". Annoyed by the sheriff's abrasive attitude and persistent questioning, Bill twists her head around, and returns to the garage, just as Tammy exits it with Liz. Liz succumbs to her injuries, and Tammy is strangled by Bill, who also bites off and eats her cheeks.\n\nReturning to the cabin, Bill rips Brian's brain out, knifes Vivian in the eye, beats Darren nearly to death, and chases Stacy through the property, catching and stabbing her when she trips over Cassidy's body. In the morning, the hungover Deputy Whitfield ventures to the cabin in search of the sheriff, and finds Darren, who begs her for help. Before Darren can elaborate on what happened, Bill attacks him and Whitfield.\n\n\n\"Bloody Disgusting\" panned the film overall, criticizing the script for not delving into the reasons that the titular Axeman was killing people, as this would give the film more depth and differentiate it from multiple similarly plotted films. Theron Moore of Horror News praised the film's villain and kills, but criticized the glacial pace, uninteresting subplots, stiff acting, and two-dimensional dialogue and writing. \"Ain't It Cool News\" gave a mostly favorable review for \"Axeman\", commenting that while the movie was not \"reinventing the slasher genre\" it \"does feel like a throwback to a time when the slashers weren't so passé.\"\n\nA sequel is currently underway, titled \"Axeman 2: Overkill\". Principal photography was scheduled to begin in September 2014 and the film had a tentative release date of 2015. Wrestler Bryan Clark will replace Scot Pollard as the titular character and the film will be directed by Joston Theney. \"Axeman 2: Overkill\" was completed in 2014 and was released straight-to-DVD and online retailers on October 17, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "7440205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7440205", "title": "Caledonian Antisyzygy", "text": "Caledonian Antisyzygy\n\nThe term Caledonian Antisyzygy refers to the \"idea of dueling polarities within one entity\", thought of as typical for the Scottish psyche and literature. It was first coined by G. Gregory Smith in his 1919 book \"Scottish Literature: Character and Influence\" in which he wrote:\nthe literature [of Scotland] is the literature of a small country... it runs a shorter course than others... in this shortness and cohesion the most favourable conditions seem to be offered for a making of a general estimate. But on the other hand, we find at closer scanning that the cohesion at least in formal expression and in choice of material is only apparent, that the literature is remarkably varied, and that it becomes, under the stress of foreign influence, almost a zigzag of contradictions. The antithesis need not, however, disconcert us. Perhaps in the very combination of opposites—what either of the two Thomases, of Norwich and Cromarty, might have been willing to call \"the Caledonian antisyzygy\"—we have a reflection of the contrasts which the Scot shows at every turn, in his political and ecclesiastical history, in his polemical restlessness, in his adaptability, which is another way of saying that he has made allowance for new conditions, in his practical judgement, which is the admission that two sides of the matter have been considered. If therefore, Scottish history and life are, as an old northern writer said of something else, 'varied with a clean contrair spirit', we need not be surprised to find that in his literature the Scot presents two aspects which appear contradictory. Oxymoron was ever the bravest figure, and we must not forget that disorderly order is order after all.\n\nThe poet Hugh MacDiarmid elaborated on the concept in his essay, \"The Caledonian Antisyzygy and the Gaelic Idea\", published in two parts in \"The Modern Scot\" 1931–1932. The notion is most frequently cited in reference to the seemingly morally contradictory quality of the works of Robert Louis Stevenson (\"Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\") and James Hogg (\"The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner\"), but is also applied to contrasts between the Highlands and the Lowlands, Protestantism and Catholicism, Britishness and Scottishness, and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "3298492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3298492", "title": "Cultural rights", "text": "Cultural rights\n\nThe cultural rights movement has provoked attention to protect the rights of groups of people, or their culture, in similar fashion to the manner in which the human rights movement has brought attention to the needs of individuals throughout the world.\n\nCultural Rights are rights related to art and culture, both understood in a large sense. The objective of these rights is to guarantee that people and communities have an access to culture and can participate in the culture of their selection. Cultural rights are human rights that aim at assuring the enjoyment of culture and its components in conditions of equality, human dignity and non-discrimination. They are rights related to themes such as language; cultural and artistic production; participation in cultural life; cultural heritage; intellectual property rights; author’s rights; minorities and access to culture, among others. Focusing less on the preservation of cultures as an end in itself and more on the realization of \"ecological\" relations between cultural groups as a condition for equitable interactions and the potential for organic cultural change, Meyjes proposes the interchangeable terms cultural justice and ethno-cultural justice and intercultural justice — which he defines as the principle of maximally accommodating the culturally-specific values and practices of minority groups and their members, in the form of rights, within the overall legal, regulatory, or policy limits of the institution, community, or society concerned (also see universalization).\n\nCultural rights of groups focus on such things as religious and ethnic minorities and indigenous societies that are in danger of disappearing. Cultural rights include a group’s ability to preserve its way of life, such as child rearing, continuation of language, and security of its economic base in the nation, which it is located. The related notion of indigenous intellectual property rights (IPR) has arisen in attempt to conserve each society’s culture base and essentially prevent ethnocide.\n\nThe cultural rights movement has been popularized because much traditional cultural knowledge has commercial value, like ethno-medicine, cosmetics, cultivated plants, foods, folklore, arts, crafts, songs, dances, costumes, and rituals. Studying ancient cultures may reveal evidence about the history of the human race and shed more light on our origin and successive cultural development. However, the study, sharing and commercialization of such cultural aspects can be hard to achieve without infringing upon the cultural rights of those who are a part of that culture.\n\nCultural rights should be taken into consideration also by local policies. In that sense, the Agenda 21 for culture, the first document with worldwide mission that advocates establishing the groundwork of an undertaking by cities and local governments for cultural development, includes as cultural rights as one of the principles and states: “\"Local governments recognize that cultural rights are an integral part of human rights, taking as their reference the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948)\"”.\n\n\"Cultural rights are vested not in individuals but in groups, such as religious and ethnic minorities and indigenous societies.\" All cultures are brought up differently, therefore cultural rights include a group's ability to preserve its culture, to raise its children in the ways it forebears, to continue its language, and to not be deprived of its economic base by the nation in which it is located.\" Anthropologists sometimes choose not to study some cultures beliefs and rights, because they believe that it may cause misbehavior, and they choose not to turn against different diversities of cultures. Although anthropologists sometimes do turn away from studying different cultures they still depend a lot on what they study at different archaeological sites.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20568894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20568894", "title": "Danish art", "text": "Danish art\n\nDanish art is the visual arts produced in Denmark or by Danish artists. It goes back thousands of years with significant artifacts from the 2nd millennium BC, such as the Trundholm sun chariot. For many early periods, it is usually considered as part of the wider Nordic art of Scandinavia. Art from what is today Denmark forms part of the art of the Nordic Bronze Age, and then Norse and Viking art. Danish medieval painting is almost entirely known from church frescos such as those from the 16th-century artist known as the Elmelunde Master.\n\nThe Reformation greatly disrupted Danish artistic traditions, and left the existing body of painters and sculptors without large markets. The requirements of the court and aristocracy were mainly for portraits, usually by imported artists, and it was not until the 18th century that large numbers of Danes were trained in contemporary styles. For an extended period of time thereafter art in Denmark either was imported from Germany and the Netherlands or Danish artists studied abroad and produced work that was seldom inspired by Denmark itself. From the late 18th century on, the situation changed radically. Beginning with the Danish Golden Age, a distinct tradition of Danish art began and has continued to flourish until today. Due to generous art subsidies, contemporary Danish art has a big production per capita.\n\nThough usually not especially a major centre for art production or exporter of art, Denmark has been relatively successful in keeping its art; in particular, the relatively mild nature of the Danish Reformation, and the lack of subsequent extensive rebuilding and redecoration of churches, has meant that with other Scandinavian countries, Denmark has unusually rich survivals of medieval church paintings and fittings. One period when Nordic art exerted a strong influence over the rest of northern Europe was in Viking art, and there are many survivals, both in stone monuments left untouched around the countryside, and objects excavated in modern times.\n\nLurs are a distinctive type of giant curving Bronze Age horn, of which 35 of the 53 known examples have been found in bogs in Denmark, very often in pairs. They are normally made of bronze, and often decorated.\n\nA possibly alien find in Denmark is the Gundestrup cauldron, a richly decorated silver vessel, thought to date to the 1st century BC. It was found in 1891 in a peat bog near the hamlet of Gundestrup in north-eastern Jutland. The silversmithing of the plates is very skilled. The bowl, 70 cm across, was beaten from a single ingot. Now in the National Museum of Denmark, it is the largest known example of European silver work from the period. The style and workmanship suggest Thracian origin, while the imagery seems Celtic, so it may not reflect local styles.\n\nThe Germanic Iron Age period of about 400-800 AD is represented by the Golden Horns of Gallehus, now known only from drawings since they were stolen and melted down in 1802, and significant deposits from weapons sacrifice such as that at Illerup Ådal, where 15,000 items were found, deposited during the period 200-500.\n\nDanish sites have given their names to two of the six main styles of Viking or Norse art, Jelling style (10th century) and its successor Mammen style (10-11th centuries), though the other styles are also represented in Denmark. Only one Danish ship burial is known, from Ladbyskibet. The images on the runestones at Jelling are probably the best known Danish works of the period. Although little of their original paint remains today, copies of the largest stone in the National Museum of Denmark and in the museum at Jelling have been redecorated in vivid colours based on the fragments of paint which remained on the original.\n\nChurch wall paintings (Danish: \"kalkmalerier\") are to be found in some 600 churches across Denmark, probably representing the highest concentration of surviving church murals anywhere in the world. Most of them date back to the Middle Ages. They lay hidden for centuries as after the Reformation in Denmark, they were covered with limewash (Danish: \"kalk\") only to be revealed and restored during the course of the 19th and 20th centuries. Of most interest to Danish art are the Gothic paintings from the 15th and 16th centuries as they were painted in a style typical of native Danish painters. Adopting the Biblia pauperum approach, they present many of the most popular stories from the Old and New Testaments in typological juxtapositions.\n\nDanish panel painting and painted wood-carving of the late Middle Ages was mostly by, or heavily influenced by, the prevailing North German styles, especially those of Hamburg and other Hanseatic cities. At the Protestant Reformation religious painting virtually ceased, and for a long period the most notable portraits of the royal family were made by foreign artists, such as Hans Holbein the Younger's portrait of Christina of Denmark. Albrecht Dürer's portrait of her father Christian II of Denmark, painted in Brussels in 1521, has not survived, though portraits of him by other foreign artists have.\n\nThe establishment of the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in 1754 followed the general European pattern, and was intended to develop a national school and reduce the need to import artists from other countries. After a period of development its pupils were indeed to lead the creation of a distinct Danish style. After an architect, the third and fifth Director was Johannes Wiedewelt (1772–1777) and from (1780-1789), a Neoclassical sculptor trained in Italy and France, who had followed his father as court sculptor, and is remembered for his memorials and garden decorations including the monument of King Frederick V in Roskilde Cathedral and the Naval Monument in Holmens Cemetery. The first painter to lead it was the Swedish-born Carl Gustaf Pilo (c. 1711 – 1793), a portraitist and history painter in the grand style, and the next Nikolaj Abraham Abildgaard (1743–1809), himself an ex-student, who developed a Neo-Classical style. Leading Danish artists teaching at the Academy included Christian August Lorentzen and Jens Juel, also later Director. Unlike in England, for example, most leading Danish artists for at least the next century trained at the Academy and often returned to teach there, and the tension between academic art and other styles is much less a feature of Danish art history than that of France, England or other countries.\nA student of Abildgaard's period at the Academy was Bertel Thorvaldsen (1770–1844), by far the most famous Danish sculptor, who along with the Italian Canova was recognised across Europe as the leading Neoclassical sculptor. Among his works are the colossal series of statues of Christ and the twelve Apostles for the rebuilding of Vor Frue Kirke in Copenhagen. Motifs for his works (reliefs, statues, and busts) were drawn mostly from Greek mythology, but he also created portraits of important personalities, as in his tomb monument for Pope Pius VII in St Peter's Basilica, Rome. His works can be seen in many European countries, but there is a very large collection at the Thorvaldsen Museum in Copenhagen. He was based in Rome for many years, and played an important role in encouraging young Danish artists spending time in the city. Another important Neoclassicist produced by the Academy was the painter Asmus Jacob Carstens, whose later career was all spent in Italy or Germany.\n\nThe establishment in 1775 of the Royal Copenhagen Porcelain Factory was another royal initiative, typical of monarchies in the period, though the business has outlasted the great majority of such factories, and survives today as part of a larger group, which also includes the Kosta Glasbruk glass company, founded in 1742 by two army officers, and the Orrefors Glasbruk (founded 1898), all known internationally.\n\nAround the beginning of the 19th century the Golden Age of Danish Painting emerged to form a distinct national style for the first time since the Middle Ages; the period lasted until the middle of the 19th century. It has a style drawing on Dutch Golden Age painting, especially its landscape painting, and depicting northern light that is soft but allows strong contrasts of colour. The treatment of scenes is typically an idealized version of reality, but unpretentiously so, appearing more realist than is actually the case. Interior scenes, often small portrait groups, are also common, with a similar treatment of humble domestic objects and furniture, often of the artist's circle of friends. Little Danish art was seen outside the country (indeed it mostly remains there to this day) and the Danish-trained leader of German Romantic painting Caspar David Friedrich was important in spreading its influence in Germany.\n\nA crucial figure was Christoffer Wilhelm Eckersberg, who had studied in Paris with Jacques-Louis David and was further influenced towards Neo-Classicism by Thorwaldsen. Eckersberg taught at the Academy from 1818 to 1853, becoming director from 1827 to 1828, and was an important influence on the following generation, in which landscape painting came to the fore. He taught most of the leading artists of the period, including:\nAmong other artists, C.A. Jensen (1792–1870) specialized almost exclusively in portraits.\n\nAt the end of the period painting style, especially in landscape art, became caught up in the political issue of the Schleswig-Holstein Question, a vital matter for Danes, but notoriously impenetrable for most others in Europe.\n\nDanish painting continued many of the characteristics of the Golden Age, but gradually moved closer to styles of the rest of Europe, especially Germany. Artists include:\n\nElisabeth Jerichau-Baumann (1819–1881) was born in Żoliborz (Jolibord) a borough of Warsaw but moved to Denmark when she married Danish sculptor Jens Adolf Jerichau in 1846. She is best known for her portraits and was commissioned by the Danish Royal Family to paint their portraits to the annoyance and jealousy of local artists. The mild eroticism of a few of her paintings was looked upon unfavourably by many at the time but she remained aloof, perhaps reassured by the fact that some of her husband's sculptures were erotic in nature.\n\nCarl Heinrich Bloch (1834–1890) was a rare Danish history painter, mostly of Biblical subjects, who developed his academic style in Italy before returning to Copenhagen in 1866. He was commissioned to produce 23 paintings for the Chapel at Frederiksborg Palace consisting of scenes from the life of Christ which have become very popular as illustrations. For over 40 years the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has made much use of Carl Bloch's paintings, especially those from the Frederiksborg Palace collection, in its church buildings and printed media.\n\nEdvard Eriksen (1876–1959) is best known as the sculptor of the bronze \"Little Mermaid\" statue in Copenhagen. Based on the story by Hans Christian Andersen, he completed the work in 1913.\n\nIn 1871, Holger Drachmann (1846–1908) and Karl Madsen (1855–1938) visited Skagen in the far north of Jutland where they quickly built up one of Scandinavia's most successful artists' colonies. They were soon joined by P.S. Krøyer (1851–1909), Carl Locher (1851–1915), Laurits Tuxen (1853–1927), the Norwegian Christian Skredsvig (1854–1924) and Michael (1849–1927) and Anna Ancher (1859–1935). All participated in painting the natural surroundings and local people. The symbolist Jens Ferdinand Willumsen (1863–1958) also visited the Skagen community.\n\nA little later, at the very beginning of the 20th century, a similar phenomenon developed on the island of Funen with the encouragement of Johannes Larsen (1867–1961) and the inspiration of Theodor Philipsen. \"Fynboerne\" or the Funen Painters included: Peter Hansen, Fritz Syberg, Jens Birkholm, Karl Schou, Harald Giersing, Anna Syberg, Christine Swane and Alhed Larsen.\n\nTheodor Philipsen (1840–1920) through his personal contact with Paul Gauguin became the sole Danish impressionist of his generation.\n\nL. A. Ring (1854–1933), famous for his involvement in Danish symbolism, specialised in paintings of village life and landscapes in the south of Zealand.\n\nPaul Gustave Fischer (1860–1934) was a romantic impressionistic painter specialising in city street scenes and bright bathing compositions.\n\nVilhelm Hammershøi (1864–1916) was considered something of an enigma in his lifetime but is now remembered mainly for his subdued paintings of interiors, usually empty spaces (as in \"Dust Motes Dancing in Sunbeams\") but occasionally with a solitary figure.\nDanish expressionist landscape painting developed between the world wars with Jens Søndergaard and Oluf Høst as its main representatives. In parallel, younger artists such as Niels Lergaard, Lauritz Hartz and Karl Bovin adopted the light French colours and formalism of modernism, founding the Corner group of artists in 1932. Around the same time, Edvard Weie, the Swedish artist Karl Isakson, Olaf Rude, Kræsten Iversen, Oluf Høst and Niels Lergaard were attracted by the natural beauty of the Baltic islands of Bornholm and the much smaller Christiansø. Together they initiated the so-called Bornholm School providing the basis of the permanent exhibition at the Bornholm Art Museum near Gudhjem. Painters of nature and everyday life such as Erik Hoppe and Knud Agger initiated the highly successful Grønningen association which provided a platform for exhibitions in Copenhagen.\n\nSigurd Swane (1879–1973) was initially influenced by the work of the Fauves in Paris when he began a series of paintings of woodlands rich in greens, yellows and blues. He later painted a number of light-filled landscapes while living on a farm in Odsherred in north-western Zealand.\n\nHarald Giersing (1881–1927) was instrumental in developing the classic modernism movement in Denmark around 1910–1920.\n\nVilhelm Lundstrøm (1893–1950), one of the greatest modernists, brought French cubism to Denmark. He is remembered for his still-life paintings with oranges and for cubistic scenes with nudes. His later work developed into much looser modern art with contrasting colours and form.\n\nRichard Mortensen (1910–1993) was an important surrealistic painter, inspired by Wassily Kandinsky. He was a joint founder of the \"Linien\" group of artists and also a member of the Grønningen group. His later expressionist works exhibit large, clear, brightly coloured surfaces.\n\nAsger Jorn (1914–1973) was a Danish artist, sculptor, writer and ceramist. Looking for inspiration outside Denmark, he traveled widely. After meeting artists such as Constant Nieuwenhuys, Appel and Dotremont, he became the driving force behind the Cobra group where he excelled in ceramics but also continued to paint in oils.\n\nDanish design became of international importance in the decades after World War II, especially in furniture, where it pioneered a style sometimes known as Danish modern, the forerunner of the general Scandinavian Design style popularized by IKEA. Important designers include Finn Juhl (1912–1989), Hans Wegner (1914–2007) and Arne Jacobsen (1902–1971).\n\nCollections of modern art enjoy unusually attractive settings at the Louisiana Museum north of Copenhagen and at the North Jutland Art Museum in Aalborg. The National Museum of Art and the Glyptotek, both in Copenhagen, contain treasures of Danish and international art.\n\n\nOn the occasion of her 50th birthday in 1990, Queen Margrethe II decided to use a gift from industry of 13 million Danish crowns to produce a series of tapestries tracing the history of Denmark from the beginnings to the present day. Woven by the historic Manufacture des Gobelins in Paris, the tapestries were based on full-sized sketches by the versatile Danish artist Bjørn Nørgaard. Completed in 1999, they now hang in the Great Hall at Christiansborg Palace\n\nFollowing in the footsteps of Arne Jacobsen, Denmark has had some outstanding successes in contemporary architecture. Johann Otto von Spreckelsen, relying on simple geometrical figures, designed the Grande Arche at La Défense in Puteaux, near Paris. Prolific Henning Larsen designed the Foreign Ministry building in Riyadh, as well as a variety of prestige buildings throughout Scandinavia, including the recently completed Copenhagen Opera House. Jørn Utzon's iconic Sydney Opera House earned him the distinction of becoming only the second person to have his work recognized as a World Heritage Site while still alive. Bjarke Ingels whom the Wall Street Journal in October 2011 named the Innovator of the Year for architecture and, in July 2012, cited him as \"rapidly becoming one of the design world's rising stars\" in light of his extensive international projects.\n\nThe most significant museums for Danish art are:\nand others in .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8438361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8438361", "title": "Dolch word list", "text": "Dolch word list\n\nThe Dolch word list is a list of frequently used English words compiled by Edward William Dolch, a major proponent of the \"whole-word\" method of beginning reading instruction. The list was first published in a journal article in 1936 and then published in his book \"Problems in Reading\" in 1948. \n\nDolch compiled the list based on children's books of his era, which is why nouns such as \"kitty\" and \"Santa Claus\" appear on the list instead of more high-frequency words. The list contains 220 \"service words\" that have to be easily recognized in order to achieve reading fluency in the English language. The compilation excludes nouns, which comprise a separate 95-word list. Between 50% and 75% of all words used in schoolbooks, library books, newspapers, and magazines are a part of the Dolch basic sight word vocabulary.\n\nThese lists of words are still assigned for memorization in American elementary schools. Although most of the 220 Dolch words are phonetic, children are sometimes told that they can't be \"sounded out\" using common sound-to-letter implicit phonics patterns and have to be learned by sight; hence the alternative term, \"sight word\". The list is divided according to the grades in which it was intended that children would memorize these words.\n\nPre-primer: \n(40 words) a, and, away, big, blue, can, come, down, find, for, funny, go, help, here, I, in, is, it, jump, little, look, make, me, my, not, one, play, red, run, said, see, the, three, to, two, up, we, where, yellow, you\n\nPrimer: \n(52 words) all, am, are, at, ate, be, black, brown, but, came, did, do, eat, four, get, good, have, he, into, like, must, new, no, now, on, our, out, please, pretty, ran, ride, saw, say, she, so, soon, that, there, they, this, too, under, want, was, well, went, what, white, who, will, with, yes\n\n1st Grade: \n(41 words) after, again, an, any, as, ask, by, could, every, fly, from, give, giving, had, has, her, him, his, how, just, know, let, live, may, of, old, once, open, over, put, round, some, stop, take, thank, them, then, think, walk, were, when\n\n2nd Grade:\n(46 words) always, around, because, been, before, best, both, buy, call, cold, does, don't, fast, first, five, found, gave, goes, green, its, made, many, off, or, pull, read, right, sing, sit, sleep, tell, their, these, those, upon, us, use, very, wash, which, why, wish, work, would, write, your\n\n3rd Grade: \n(41 words) about, better, bring, carry, clean, cut, done, draw, drink, eight, fall, far, full, got, grow, hold, hot, hurt, if, keep, kind, laugh, light, long, much, myself, never, nine, only, own, pick, seven, shall, show, six, small, start, ten, today, together, try, warm\n\n(95 words) apple, baby, back, ball, bear, bed, bell, bird, birthday, boat, box, boy, bread, brother, cake, car, cat, chair, chicken, children, Christmas, coat, corn, cow, day, dog, doll, door, duck, egg, eye, farm, farmer, father, feet, fire, fish, floor, flower, game, garden, girl, good-bye, grass, ground, hand, head, hill, home, horse, house, kitty, leg, letter, man, men, milk, money, morning, mother, name, nest, night, paper, party, picture, pig, rabbit, rain, ring, robin, Santa Claus, school, seed, sheep, shoe, sister, snow, song, squirrel, stick, street, sun, table, thing, time, top, toy, tree, watch, water, way, wind, window, wood\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2778584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2778584", "title": "Doors Open Canada", "text": "Doors Open Canada\n\nDoors Open Canada is a national program by Heritage Canada, based on the Doors Open Days concept. It aims to expose architecture and heritage through the exploration of hidden historical, architectural and cultural gems. Buildings that are normally closed to the public, or which charge an entrance fee, welcome visitors to look around for free. \n\nThe premiere Doors Open event in Canada, in age and repetition, is Doors Open Ontario, which has run continuously since 2000. Since 2003, Doors Open Newfoundland and Labrador has been constantly growing, with new communities added each year.\n\nDoors Open events have been held in the following cities (first year indicated): \n\n"}
{"id": "6341218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6341218", "title": "Dysorthography", "text": "Dysorthography\n\nDysorthography is a specific dysgraphic disorder of spelling which accompanies dyslexia by a direct consequence of the phonological disorder.\n\n"}
{"id": "11719855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11719855", "title": "Educational sciences", "text": "Educational sciences\n\nEducation sciences (traditionally often called pedagogy) and education theory seek to describe, understand, and prescribe educational policy and practice. Education sciences include many topics, such as pedagogy, andragogy, curriculum, learning, and education policy, organization and leadership. Educational thought is informed by many disciplines, such as history, philosophy, sociology, and psychology. \n\nFaculties, departments, degree programs, and degrees on educational sciences are often called simply \"Faculty of Education\" etc. It is likewise common, especially in North America, to say \"she is studying education\", which is generally called \"studying educational science(s)\" nowadays and was traditionally called \"studying pedagogy\" (in English) in most European countries.\n\nFor example, a cultural theory of education considers how education occurs through the totality of culture, including prisons, households, and religious institutions as well as schools. Other examples are the behaviorist theory of education that comes from educational psychology and the functionalist theory of education that comes from sociology of education.\n\nThe earliest known attempts to understand education in Europe were by classical Greek philosophers and sophists, but there is also evidence of contemporary (or even preceding) discussions among Arabic, Indian, and Chinese scholars.\n\nEducational thought is not necessarily concerned with the construction of theories as much as the \"reflective examination of educational issues and problems from the perspective of diverse disciplines.\"\n\nNormative theories of education provide the norms, goals, and standards of education.\n\n\"Normative philosophies or theories of education may make use of the results of [philosophical thought] and of factual inquiries about human beings and the psychology of learning, but in any case they propound views about what education should be, what dispositions it should cultivate, why it ought to cultivate them, how and in whom it should do so, and what forms it should take. In a full-fledged philosophical normative theory of education, besides analysis of the sorts described, there will normally be propositions of the following kinds:\n1. Basic normative premises about what is good or right;\n2. Basic factual premises about humanity and the world;\n3. Conclusions, based on these two kinds of premises, about the dispositions education should foster;\n4. Further factual premises about such things as the psychology of learning and methods of teaching; and\n5. Further conclusions about such things as the methods that education should use.\"\n\nExamples of the purpose of schools include: to develop reasoning about perennial questions, to master the methods of scientific inquiry, to cultivate the intellect, to create change agents, to develop spirituality, and to model a democratic society.\n\nCommon educational philosophies include: educational perennialism, educational progressivism, educational essentialism, critical pedagogy, Montessori education, Waldorf education, and democratic education.\n\nNormative theories of curriculum aim to \"describe, or set norms, for conditions surrounding many of the concepts and constructs\" that define curriculum. These normative propositions differ from those above in that normative curriculum theory is not necessarily untestable. A central question asked by normative curriculum theory is: given a particular educational philosophy, what is worth knowing and why? Some examples are: a deep understanding of the Great Books, direct experiences driven by student interest, a superficial understanding of a wide range knowledge (e.g. Core knowledge), social and community problems and issues, knowledge and understanding specific to cultures and their achievements (e.g. African-Centered Education).\n\nScholars such as Robyn Wiegman argue that, “academic feminism is perhaps the most successful institutionalizing project of its generation, with more full-time faculty positions and new doctoral degree programs emerging each year in the field it inaugurated, Women's Studies”. Feminist educational theory stems from four key tenets, supported by empirical data based on surveys of feminist educators. The first tenet of feminist educational theory is, “Creation of participatory classroom communities”. Participatory classroom communities often are smaller classes built around discussion and student involvement. The second tenet is, “Validation of personal experience”. Classrooms in which validation of personal experience occur often are focused around students providing their own insights and experiences in group discussion, rather than relying exclusively on the insight of the educator. The third tenet is, “Encouragement of social understanding and activism”. This tenet is generally actualized by classrooms discussing and reading about social and societal aspects that students may not be aware of, along with breeding student self-efficacy. The fourth and final tenet of feminist education is, “Development of critical thinking skills/open-mindedness”. Classrooms actively engaging in this tenet encourage students to think for themselves and prompt them to move beyond their comfort zones, working outside the bounds of the traditional lecture-based classroom. Though these tenets at times overlap, they combine to provide the basis for modern feminist educational theory, and are supported by a majority of feminist educators.\n\nFeminist educational theory derives from the feminist movement, particularly that of the early 1970s, which prominent feminist bell hooks describes as, “a movement to end sexism, sexist exploitation, and oppression”. Academic feminist Robyn Weigman recalls that, “In the early seventies, feminism in the U.S. academy was less an organized entity than a set of practices: an ensemble of courses listed on bulletin boards often taught for free by faculty and community leaders”. While feminism traditionally existed outside of the institutionalization of schools (particularly universities), feminist education has gradually taken hold in the last few decades and has gained a foothold in institutionalized educational bodies. “Once fledgling programs have become departments, and faculty have been hired and tenured with full-time commitments”.\n\nOpposition to feminist educational theory comes from both those who oppose feminism in general and feminists who oppose feminist educational theory in particular. Critics of feminist educational theory argue against the four basic tenets of the theory, “… [contesting] both their legitimacy and their implementation”. Lewis Lehrman particularly describes feminist educational ideology as, “… 'therapeutic pedagogy' that substitutes an 'overriding' (and detrimental) value on participatory interaction for the expertise of the faculty” (Hoffman). Lehrman argues that the feminist educational tenets of participatory experience and validation of person experience hinder education by limiting and inhibiting the educator’s ability to share his or her knowledge, learned through years of education and experience.\n\nOthers challenge the legitimacy of feminist educational theory, arguing that it is not unique and is instead a sect of liberatory education. Even feminist educational scholars such as Frances Hoffmann and Jayne Stake are forced to concede that, “feminist pedagogy shared intellectual and political roots with the movements comprising the liberatory education agenda of the past 30 years”. These liberatory attempts at the democratization of classrooms demonstrate a growth in liberatory education philosophy that some argue feminist educational theory simply piggybacks off of.\n\nThe harshest critiques of feminist educational theory often come from feminists themselves. Feminist scholar Robyn Wiegman argues against feminist education in her article “Academic Feminism against Itself,” arguing that feminist educational ideology has abandoned the intersectionality of feminism in many cases, and has also focused exclusively on present content with a singular perspective. Wiegman refers to feminist scholar James Newman's arguments, centered around the idea that, “When we fail… to challenge both students and ourselves to theorize alterity as an issue of change over time as well as of geographic distance, ethnic difference, and sexual choice, we repress… not only the ‘thickness’ of historical difference itself, but also… our (self) implication in a narrative of progress whose hero(in)es inhabit only the present”. Newman (and Wiegman) believe that this presentist ideology imbued within modern academic feminism creates an environment breeding antifeminist ideologies, most importantly an abandonment of the study of difference, integral to feminist ideology. Wiegman believes that feminist educational theory does a great disservice to the feminist movement, while failing to instill the critical thinking and social awareness that feminist educational theory is intended to.\n\nThere are supporters of feminist education as well, many of whom are educators or students. Student-turned-professor Becky Ropers-Huilman recounts one of her positive experiences with feminist education from the student perspective, explaining that she “… felt very ‘in charge’ of [her] own learning experiences,” and “… was not being graded-or degraded... [while completing] the majority of the assigned work for the class (and additional work that [she] thought would add to class discussion),” all while “… [regarding] the teacher’s feedback on [her] participation as one perspective, rather than the perspective”. Ropers experienced a working feminist classroom that successfully motivated students to go above and beyond, succeeding in generating self-efficacy and caring in the classroom. When Ropers became a teacher herself, she embraced feminist educational theory, noting that, “[Teachers] have an obligation as the ones who are vested with an assumed power, even if that power is easily and regularly disrupted, to assess and address the effects that it is having in our classrooms”. Ropers firmly believes that educators have a duty to address feminist concepts such as the use and flow of power within the classroom, and strongly believes in the potential of feminist educational theory to create positive learning experiences for students and teachers as she has personally experienced.\n\nBecky Ropers-Huilman also celebrates the feminist classroom’s inclusivity, noting that in a feminist classroom, “in which power is used to care about, for, and with others… educational participants can shape practices aimed at creating an inclusive society that discovers and utilizes the potential of its actors”. Ropers believes that a feminist classroom carries the ability to greatly influence the society as a whole, promoting understanding, caring, and inclusivity. Ropers actively engages in feminist education in her classes, focusing on concepts such as active learning and critical thinking while attempting to demonstrate and engage in caring behavior and atypical classroom settings, similar to many other feminist educators.\n\nLeading feminist scholar bell hooks argues for the incorporation of feminism into all aspects of society, including education, in her book \"Feminism is for Everybody.\" hooks notes that, “Everything [people] know about feminism has come into their lives thirdhand”. hooks believes that education offers a counter to the, “… wongminded notion of feminist movement which implied it was anti-male”. hooks cites feminism’s negative connotations as major inhibitors to the spread and adoption of feminist ideologies. However, feminist education has seen tremendous growth in adoption in the past few decades, despite the negative connotations of its parent movement.\n\nDescriptive theories of education provide descriptions or explanations of the processes of education.\n\nDescriptive theories of curriculum explain how curricula \"benefit or harm all publics it touches\".\n\nThe term hidden curriculum describes that which is learned simply by being in a learning environment. For example, a student in a teacher-led classroom is learning submission. The hidden curriculum is not necessarily intentional.\n\nInstructional theories focus on the methods of instruction for teaching curricula. Theories include the methods of: autonomous learning, coyote teaching, inquiry-based instruction, lecture, maturationism, socratic method, outcome-based education, taking children seriously, transformative learning\n\nPhilosophical Anthropology\n\nPhilosophical anthropology is the philosophical study of human nature. In terms of learning, examples of descriptive theories of the learner are: a mind, soul, and spirit capable of emulating the Absolute Mind (Idealism); an orderly, sensing, and rational being capable of understanding the world of things (Realism), a rational being with a soul modeled after God and who comes to know God through reason and revelation (Neo-Thomism), an evolving and active being capable of interacting with the environment (Pragmatism), a fundamentally free and individual being who is capable of being authentic through the making of and taking responsibility for choices (Existentialism). Philosophical concepts for the process of education include \"Bildung\" and \"paideia\".\n\nEducational Psychology\n\nEducational psychology is an empirical science that provides descriptive theories of how people learn. Examples of theories of education in psychology are: constructivism, behaviorism, cognitivism, and motivational theory\n\nEducational Neuroscience\n\nEducational neuroscience is an emerging field that brings together researchers in diverse disciplines to explore the interactions between biological processes and education.\n\nThe sociology of education is the study of how public institutions and individual experiences affect education and its outcomes. It is most concerned with the public schooling systems of modern industrial societies, including the expansion of higher, further, adult, and continuing education. Examples of theories of education from sociology include: functionalism, conflict theory, social efficiency, and social mobility.\n\nEducational anthropology is a sub-field of anthropology and is widely associated with the pioneering work of George Spindler. As the name would suggest, the focus of educational anthropology is obviously on education, although an anthropological approach to education tends to focus on the cultural aspects of education, including informal as well as formal education. As education involves understandings of who we are, it is not surprising that the single most recognized dictum of educational anthropology is that the field is centrally concerned with cultural transmission. Cultural transmission involves the transfer of a sense of identity between generations, sometimes known as enculturation and also transfer of identity between cultures, sometimes known as acculturation. Accordingly, thus it is also not surprising that educational anthropology has become increasingly focussed on ethnic identity and ethnic change.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3204419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3204419", "title": "Encoignure", "text": "Encoignure\n\nEncoignure is a type of furniture located in a corner of a room. In French, it literally means the angle, or return, formed by the junction of two walls. Since the 20th century, the word is chiefly used to designate a small armoire, commode, cabinet or cupboard made to fit a corner. A chair placed in a corner is referred to as a chaise encoignure.\n\nOriginally the object comes from France, hence the name, famous pieces by Louis Quinze or Louis Seize in lacquer or in mahogany, elaborately mounted in gilded bronze, are delightfully alluring pieces from the period of grand French furniture. It was made in a vast variety of forms but is strictly limited by its destination. As a rule these delicate and dainty pieces were in pairs and placed in opposite angles; frequently the tops were finished in expensive colored marble.\n"}
{"id": "40010366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40010366", "title": "European Film Gateway", "text": "European Film Gateway\n\nThe European Film Gateway (EFG) is a single access point to the digitized holdings of historical European film documents from numerous film archives and cinematheques, including over 600,000 individual objects from over 60 collections. The European Film Gateway gives access to images, textual materials, and moving images. The vast contents include film stills, set photos, posters, set drawings, portrait photographs, scripts, correspondences, film censorship and visa rulings, out-of-print books, film programs and reviews, as well as newsreels, documentaries, commercials, and feature films. The portal facilitates access to the archives which hold the original materials.\n\nThe online portal European Film Gateway is the main outcome of the EU-funded project “EFG – European Film Gateway”. Working with 22 partner organizations from 16 European countries, EFG addressed issues for access to digital content, namely, technical and semantic interoperability, metadata standards, practices for rights’ clearance, and Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) management of cinematographic works. The project was coordinated by the Deutsches Filminstitut (DIF) and funded by the European Commission under eContentplus, the Information and Communication Technologies Policy Support Programme (ICT PSP). It ran from September 2008 to August 2011 was supported by the Association des Cinematheques Europeennes (ACE) as well as the EDL Foundation.\n\nAll metadata provided by the contributing archives is stored centrally in the EFG metadata repository, which was developed in the EFG project. The EFG metadata model is mostly based on the EN 15907: Film identification - Enhancing interoperability of metadata - Element sets and structures standard. Also other models, such as FRBR as well as WPE defined by the OLAC have been considered during establishing the EFG data model.\n\nThe multilingual and non-standardised metadata delivered by content providers is harmonised and cleaned before it is ingested in the EFG system. In contrast to the metadata, which is stored centrally, the digital objects remain on individual online platforms run by the archives. Deep links refer the user directly to the objects.\n\nThe EFG implemented the technology developed by the Digital Repository Infrastructure Vision for European Research (DRIVER) project. This open service system enables the creation and maintenance of infrastructures capable of supporting the construction of Information Spaces of digital objects collected from various archives. It also permits the creation of service-oriented applications where services can be shared and re-used in other contexts.\n\nThe EFG project assessed copyright regulations and legal framework for online use of archival contents through research reports on open content models as well as working with organisations engaged with online publishing of copyrighted archival film material. EFG provided individual network partners with tools for consultations with representatives from rights owners’ and producers’ organisations in order to make the archival material available online.\n\nEFG1914 is the follow-up project of EFG. It began in February 2012 and runs for two years. Coinciding with the centenary of the First World War, EFG1914 focuses on the digitization of films and other documents from and relating to the war, making the contents available through the European Film Gateway and Europeana. Like EFG, it is funded by the European Commission and coordinated by Deutsches Filminstitut. The project consortium consists of 26 partners, 21 of which are film archives.\n\nTo date, only about 20% of the silent film production of the time remains safe-guarded in the archives and was largely unavailable to the public. EFG1914 significantly simplifies access to these films, covering various fields, from newsreels to documentary, fiction, and propaganda films. EFG1914 also includes anti-war films produced after 1918, which reveal the tragedies of the 1910s.\n\nThe European Film Gateway is linked to Europeana, the digital showcase of Europe’s cultural and scientific heritage. Europeana.eu offers search capabilities through millions of digital objects provided by Europe’s museums and galleries, archives, libraries and audio-visual organisations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "316521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316521", "title": "Flag of Qatar", "text": "Flag of Qatar\n\nThe national flag of Qatar () is in the ratio of 11:28. It is maroon with a broad white serrated band (nine white points) on the hoist side. It was adopted shortly before the country's declaration of independence from Britain on September 3, 1971.\n\nThe flag is very similar to the flag of the neighbouring country Bahrain, which has fewer points, a 3:5 proportion, and a red colour instead of maroon. Qatar's flag is the only national flag having a width more than twice its height.\n\nQatar's historic flag was plain red, in correspondence with the red banner traditionally used by the Kharjite Muslims. In the 19th century, the country modified its entirely red flag with the addition of a white vertical stripe at the hoist to suit the British directive. After this addition, Sheikh Mohammed bin Thani officially adopted a patterned purple-red and white flag which bore a strong resemblance to its modern derivative. Several additions were made to the Qatari flag in 1932, with the nine-pointed serrated edge, diamonds and the word \"Qatar\" being integrated in its design. The maroon color was standardized in 1949. In the 1960s, Sheikh Ali Al Thani removed the wording and diamonds from the flag. The flag was officially adopted on July 9, 1971 and was virtually identical to the 1960s flag, with the exception of the height-to-width proportion.\n\nNine serrated edges separate the colored and white portions. They signify Qatar's inclusion as the 9th member of the 'reconciled Emirates' of the Persian Gulf at the conclusion of the Qatari-British treaty in 1916.\n\nIn 2015, the Qatari government defined the exact shade of the Qatari flag as Pantone 1955 C, or 'Qatar maroon'. The history of purple dye in the country dates back several centuries. It has been asserted that Qatar was the site of the earliest known production of shellfish dye during the rule of the Kassites due to the presence of a purple dye industry on Al Khor Islands. Qatar was also known for its production of purple dye during the rule of the Sasanian Empire. Mohammed bin Thani, who ruled from 1847 to 1876, proposed the creation a flag with a purple-red color in order to unify the state, and to highlight its historic role in the production of dye. In 1932, the British Navy suggested an official flag should be designed. They proposed that the flag be white and red, but Qatar rejected the red coloring and continued using a mixture of purple and red instead. Due to the country's subtropical desert climate, the flag's colors were prone to being tinted darker by the sun, which resulted in the eventual adoption of a maroon coloring in 1949. The white portion of the flag symbolizes the peace procured from signing anti-piracy treaties with the British.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18803726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18803726", "title": "Folly (allegory)", "text": "Folly (allegory)\n\nFolly () was a common allegorical figure in medieval morality plays and in allegorical artwork through the Renaissance. The depiction is generally of a young man, often similar in appearance to a jester or the tarot card, The Fool. In contrast to the many obvious classical allusions in such works, the depictions owe little to the Greek goddess Atë.\n\nIn drama, the character tempts the protagonist into foolish action, successfully or not. In an allegorical painting, the figure may be counterpoised to Prudence, representing a choice, or alone, representing the unwisdom of the actors in the painting.\n\n"}
{"id": "26335483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26335483", "title": "Gibraltar in popular culture", "text": "Gibraltar in popular culture\n\nBelow are examples of Gibraltar in popular culture.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the 2017 video game [Call of Duty: WWII], there is a map called Gibraltar.\n"}
{"id": "52987790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52987790", "title": "Hindu Mahajana Sangam", "text": "Hindu Mahajana Sangam\n\nThe Hindu Mahajana Sangam () is an association of Indian workers. It is one of the Indian non-profitable organization at Penang, Malaysia which has been officially established in 1935 by waterfronts workers. Before 1935, it known as Kootakkadai ().\nThe name Mahajana comes from two words, \"maha\" meaning great and \"jana\" meaning people. So Mahajana can be described as \"great people\" in Tamil, though in Sanskrit, it is translated as \"great vehicle\". The Indian workers who arrived here were farmers back home. They preferred to call themselves Kootakadai, because they work as a \"kootam\" () which is gang or group, rather than calling themselves coolies or labourers.\n\nThe Hindu Mahajana Sangam was established in 1935 after following the first consecration of the Sri Muthu Mariamman Temple in Queen Street which was held in 1933. It was established for religious observances, to promote education, social/cultural development, participates in the administration/development of the Sri Muthu Mariamman, Arulmigu Balathandayuthapani and act as union for the workers.\n\nThe sangam’s \"madam\" (hall) located at 674, Jalan Kebun Bunga (formerly known as Waterfall Road) near the foothill of the Waterfall Arulmigu Balathandayuthapani hilltop temple, is named as \"Gandhiji Ashram\" in remembrance of Mahatma Gandhi on 22nd Feb 1948.\n\nThe Indian farmers for economic reasons came to Penang from South India in the early 18th Century to work in the Penang waterfront as labourers, they worked for the Indian merchants and contributed to the development of import and export spice trade in the Island.\n\nThere were also Tamil Indian freedom fighters Maruthu Pandiyar relatives and 72 soldiers were deported to Penang in the year 1802 by the Madras Presidency Government (British India Government).\n\nThere were more than 2,000 workers and their dependents lived in the prewar houses in the town centre than known as simpang lelong or \"elam muchanthi\" in Tamil, today this area is known as Little India. They worked in groups/gangs (\"kootam\" in Tamil) each gang consist of 50 to 30 workers with a head (\"Thandal\" in Tamil) and a clerk (\"Kanakku Pillai\" in Tamil) in charge of daily working income account which will be divided and distributed to the workers at the end of the month. They worked for the Indian merchant houses in handling their goods in the import/export trade. These workers are referred to as \"Kootakadai\" as they work as a group (Kootam). There were more than 50 groups operating in the Weld Quay waterfront handling cargo in the tongkangs or wooden barges in the import and export trade. In the many open concrete fields in the town, some of the workers were involved in storing; drying and re-bagging of betel nuts imported from Indonesia for re-export. For the workers relaxation in the evening, the authorities operated 2 government toddy shops in the town centre, one in Market Lane/Muda Lane junction which still exist today and the other in King Street which was bombed by the Japanese during the 2nd World War, this site have been since rebuilt into a warehouse for the customs department. During the War many workers joined the Indian National Army. They also had a unique form of a gathering to raise emergency funds for their needs call \"Needs\" (\"Thaevai\" in Tamil) where each worker contribute and his amount and name recorded and same amount return to him in another function.\n\nIn 1833 the workers founded the Queen Street Sri Muthu Mariamman Temple (The temple was renamed Arulmigu Mahamariamman Temple in 1980 by the Hindu Endowment Board). The waterfront workers contributed to the development, construction and management of the Queen Street and Waterfall temples. The inner city Hindu population was mostly waterfront workers who established the Hindu Mahajana Sangam in 1935. The sangam was established with the main purpose of managing the Queen Street and Waterfall hilltop temples. The Queen street temple which was then managed by a few trustees appointed by the Board. One of these trustees was Mr K.V. Karuppiah Thandal, who became the inaugural secretary of the sangam.\n\nThe sangam was also involved in promoting religious observance, developing Tamil education and Indian culture. It was also involved in arbitrating disputes within the community which served as an avenue to discuss and address social problems affecting Indian workers. It set up a panchayat committee to solve these problems. The sangam started Tamil schools to educate the Tamil children, and was active in promoting cultural activities and religious practices.\n\nThe Hindu Mahajana Sangam was a channel in bring up the grievances of the Indian community to the proper authorities and acted as a union for the workers until 1950, when the Waterfront Workers Union was formed. This later became known as the Weld Quay Workers Union. In the early 1970s, when the Government established the Penang Labour Board, the Weld Quay Workers Union was amalgamated with the Prai Cargo Handlers and the Penang Stevedores Union to form the Penang Port Workers Union, with its office in King Street.\n\nThe sangam’s Hon. Secretary, the late K. V. Karuppiah Thandal, the head of one of the numerous groups of workers was a trustee of the Queen Street Sri Muthu Mariamman temple and the sangam members were regularly appointed to the Hindu Endowment Board and the members held various positions in the temples management committees and contributed to the temples development.\n\nThe sangam’s President, the late Mr. M. Doraisamy Thevar JP, PJK was the last Hindu Endowment Board member representing the Hindu Mahajana Sangam and was also the chairman of the Temples Management Committee, which carried out the 2nd consecration ceremony of the Queen Street, Sri Muthu Mariamman Temple.\n\nBetween 1960s and 70s many of the workers living in the inner city became jobless due to the Indonesian confrontation and also because the Indian merchants began to reduce the usage of the tongkangs/barges in transporting cargo to vessels and used the newly built PPC Butterworth deepwater wharves in the mainland to be cost effective. Therefore, many of the workers due to lack of job opportunities and their expanded families gradually left the town centre for economic reasons to various parts of the Island, to the slums in the Weld Quay reclamation area, Noordin Street Flats, mainland and far South, some of them even left Penang permanently to settle in India.\n\nThe Hindu Mahajana Sangam operated out of 47 Church Street from 1935 until 1947, when it moved to 40 Church Street. The sangam moved out of 40 Church Street in 1988 after the property was sold. It was then that it moved to its own building, the Gandhiji Ashram, at 674 Jalan Kebun Bunga.\n\nToday it is based at the Gandhiji Ashram, a community hall at the foot of the Balathandayuthapani Temple near the Penang Botanic Gardens. The hall was built by the early Indian settles who were the waterfront workers in late 1920s and was originally known as \"Madaalayam\" or \"Kootakadai Madam\". The Sangam intends to preserve the Dewan Mahatma Gandhi building as a heritage building as in our view this is the only building that exist today which is based on the South Indian Architecture left in the whole of Malaysia. This building is of significant historic value need to be preserved for our future generation to appreciate our heritage.\nThe Sangam to strengthen the religious beliefs in the community every year organizes various festivals and celebrations in Queen Street Sri Maha Mariamman Temple, Waterfall Sri Bala Thendayuthapani Hilltop temple, Penang Road Sri Kunj Bihari Krishna Temple and Dewan Mahatma Gandhi.\n\nThe members of the Sangam built the hall (\"madam\" in Tamil) in the Waterfall Balathandayuthapani Temple compound to cater for the devotees attending the annual Thaipusam (during Jan/Feb) and the annual Chitraparuvam Festivals (during April/May). This is a rare heritage building representing the South Indian architecture. Not only Dewan Mahatma Gandhi is used as a religious retreat, it also provides shelter to estate workers who come to Penang during the festivals. Due to lack of transport and accommodation in the earlier years, the sangam provided free temporary accommodation for the devotees from outstation attending the festivals and free vegetarian lunch to the public. This tradition is still being carried out by the Sangam members till today. On 22 February 1948 during a condolences gathering for the late Mahatma Gandhi, the members unanimously named the Sangam’s hall Dewan Mahatma Gandhi (Ganhdhiji Ashram).\nOn 5 October 2008, A ceremony was held at the Gandhiji Ashram to unveil a life size statue of Mahatma Gandhi. The ceremony was also to celebrate United Nation's International Day against violence and to commemorate the birthday of Mahatma Gandhi. \nBeginning from August 2013, an exhibit of rare photographs of Mahatma Gandhi is open to the public from 10:00 am to 1:00 pm, on every Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays.\n\nIn 1951 the Sangam built the Pillaiyar Temple in the Waterfall Temple compound and held its first consecration ceremony. In the late 1970s the Hindu Endowment Board rebuilt this temple and renamed it Arulmigu Sri Ganesar Temple.\nThe Hindu Mahajana Sangam, with notable among the festivals, the annual Chitraparuvam Festival which is celebrated in the Tamil month of Chithirai (April/May) every year, is organised with a chariot procession of the Panchaloha () deity of Lord Subramaniyaswami from Queen Street Sri Mahamariamman Temple. It is the day of the first full moon of the first Tamil month. In early years, the festival starts with special pooja and ubayam for the Hindu Mahajana Sangam (Koota Kadai) in Queen Street Sri Mahamariamman temple, the chariot procession commences in the early morning 7.00 am and reached Waterfall Dewan Mahatma Gandhi (Gandhiji Ashram) in the afternoon, the deity then carried and placed in the ashram until the return journey of the chariot to Queen Street Sri Mahamariamman temple in the evening of the same day.\n\nSince the early 1970s this festival is celebrated for three days. The deity of Lord Subramaiyaswami is brought in procession from the Queen Street Sri Mahamariamman temple passing through many street and roads before reaching the Waterfall Arulmigu Sri Ganesha temple. The deity is carried up to the Hilltop Arulmigu Sri Balathadayuthapani Temple. On the second day is the Chitraparuvam Festival where the deity is taken in procession around the hilltop temple compound in the evening. On the third day evening, the deity is carried down and placed on the chariot procession journey back to the Queen Street Sri Mahamariamman temple. In 1992, the Hindu Mahajana Sangam imported a new chariot from India, for the annual Chitraparuvam festival celebration to replace the old chariot which was found to be not road worthy and in a decaying condition.\n\nOn the first day, the chariot passes through Queen Street, Chulia Street, Chulia Street Ghaut, Victoria Street, Prangin Road Ghaut, C. Y. Choy Road, Magazine Road, Dato Keramat Road, Western Road and Waterfall Road before reaching the Ganesar Temple. The chariot stops at Kamatchi Amman Temple, Sivan Temple and Muneeswarar Temple along the way. Then the Lord Subramaniyaswami is carried up to the Sri Balathandayuthapani Temple at the hilltop.\n\nOn the return journey, the Lord Subramaniyaswami is carried down and the chariot passes through Waterfall Road, Gottlieb Road, Tunku Abdul Rahman Road, Macalister Road, Anson Road, Burma Road, Transfer Road, Sri Bahari Road, Penang Road, Kimberley Street, Carnarvon Street, Chulia Street, Pitt Street, Church Street, Queen Street, China Street, King Street, Light Street, Penang Street, Chulia Street, King Street, China Street, Beach Street, Market Street and Queen Street before reaching the Sri Mahamariamman Temple. The chariot stops at Balathandayuthapani Temple, Meenatchi Sundaraeswarar Temple, ISKCON Centre, Muneeswarar Temple and Kunj Bihari Temple along the way.\n\nThe Navarathiri festival begins with the lion flag raising ceremony and ends with a procession where the Panchaloha () deity of Mahamariamman is paraded in a decorated wooden chariot through the streets of Little India. Navarathiri is nine nights’ vegetarian festival. According to the Hindu Puranas, the festival is held to commemorate the victory of Goddess Adi Parashakti over the demon king Mahishasuran. It was stated that the evil king ill-treated the people that they turned to the goddess, who is the consort of Lord Shiva, to save them. Goddess Adi Parasakthi fought a battle for nine days and ultimately destroyed him on the 10th day, which is known as Vijayadashami.\n\nVarious Indian organisations and communities would sponsor the prayers for each of the nights. On the Final tenth day of the celebration, Vijayadashami is celebrated by Hindu Mahajana Sangam. The sangam organised the chariot procession for many years from Queen Street, Sri Mahamariamman Temple to Dhoby Ghaut. The festival celebration is concluded after shooting of arrows from the chariot in the evening in the Dhoby Ghaut. The chariot returns to the temple at about midnight the same day. Since the late 1970s, the organisation of the chariot procession had been taken over from the sangam by the Temple committee and the Hindu Endowments Board. The chariot procession is now confined to Fort Cornwallis area, nearby the Kedah Pier Muneeswarar Temple in the Esplanade. However, the sangam still continues to celebrate the annual Navarathiri festival’s final tenth day Vijayadashami Ubayam every year without fail.\nThe celebration the annual Vaikunda Ekadhasi festival in the Sri Kunj Bihari Temple, Penang Road since the early 1900s. This festival falls in December/January every year and is celebrated with a special ubayam and pooja at night, followed by the procession of the Panchaloha () deities Krishna along with Rukmini and Satyabhama are carried out around within the temple premises. Religious hymns (Bhajan) will be conducted until the following morning in the main hall of the temple. The celebration is concluded with a special Pooja in the early morning of the following day. The devotees break their fast and our members serve vegetarian meal after the prayers.\n\nThe annual Thaipusam festival is celebrated in the Gandhiji Hall (Dewan Mahatma Gandhi) Waterfall, from the eve of the Festival day. Free lunch is provided on the day before, in the evening light food and drinks served to the public. On Thaipusam day, free breakfast, lunch and dinner is served to the public.\n\nThe Hindu Mahajana Sangam members carry a traditional kavadi weighing approximately 80 kilos known as \"Atta Kavadi\" since 1927 from Queen Street Sri Mahamariamman temple in the evening to Dewan Mahatma Gandhi in the Arulmigu Balathandayuthapani Temple, Penang compound with traditional Nadhaswaram accompanying the Atta Kavadi. A late night dinner is served in the Dewan Mahatma Gandhi after the arrival of the Atta Kavadi. In the early years the arrival of the Atta Kavadi signifies the conclusion of the annual Thaipusam festival celebration for the day and devotees are not expected to carry any kavadi after the Atta Kavadi reaches the Waterfall temple compound.\n\nIn the last few years our sangam had been organizing exhibitions on Hindu religious practices where various organizations participated. Anti Dadah and health exhibitions were held. These exhibitions were officiated by YB Dato’ Dr. K. Rajapathy, the Hindu Endowment Board chairman during the festivals.\n\nThe Hindu Mahajana Sangam and Taiping Peace Initiative will jointly organize The United Nations Interna-tional Day of Non-Violence commemorating the Birthday of Mahatma Gandhi\nIn the past 15 years, the sangam has enhanced its activities with the cooperation of NGOs in Penang by providing free medical camp, yoga for health, weekly evening lectures on Hinduism, weekly education class for children and charity for the underprivileged.\nSince early 1999, the sangam started to revamp it is activities in line with its objectives and refurbished the hall to incorporate various facilities. It now has a library, a computer lab, meeting room and toilet facilities. The sangam with help of the volunteers organize religious and Tamil class for children on every Sunday afternoon. Tuition and computer classes for children in the primary school every Sunday morning.\n\nReligious class for adults is conducted on every Monday evening on the Art of Living by Swamiji H. H. Sri Brahmanada Saraswathi from Kulim Diyana Mandram. The sangam provides vegetarian light food after the discourse. On every Tuesday and Wednesday evenings with the cooperation of Ananda Marga Society, the Sangam organizes Yoga for Health for all races from 7.40pm to 9.30pm. On Thursday evening the sangam conducts basic Tamil Language for adults from 7.45 pm to 9.00pm.\nThe sangam’s future plan is to focus on developing traditional Art, Music and other cultural activities to preserve our diverse identity with the hope of creating a vibrant Bangsa Malaysia.\n\nSince 2008, the sangam has come to the aid of the less fortunate and underprivileged. In conjunction with Deepavali, poor families received hampers consisting of grocery essentials such as rice, oil, milk, noodles and biscuits as well as cash packets from the association at its premises.\nThe nearest bus stop is along Jalan Kebun Bunga, which is served by Rapid Penang bus 10.\n\n"}
{"id": "598066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=598066", "title": "Holy Crown of Hungary", "text": "Holy Crown of Hungary\n\nThe Holy Crown of Hungary (, also known as the Crown of Saint Stephen) was the coronation crown used by the Kingdom of Hungary for most of its existence; kings have been crowned with it since the twelfth century.\nThe Crown was bound to the Lands of the Hungarian Crown (sometimes the \"Sacra Corona\" meant the Land, the Carpathian Basin, but it also meant the coronation body, too). No king of Hungary was regarded as having been truly legitimate without being crowned with it. In the history of Hungary, more than fifty kings were crowned with it, up to the last, Charles IV, in 1916 (the only kings who were not so crowned were John II Sigismund, Gabriel Bethlen and Joseph II).\n\nThe enamels on the crown are mainly or entirely Byzantine work, presumed to have been made in Constantinople in the 1070s. The crown was presented by the Byzantine Emperor Michael VII Doukas to King Géza I of Hungary; both are depicted and named in Greek on enamel plaques in the lower crown. It is one of the two known Byzantine crowns to survive, the other being the slightly earlier Monomachus Crown, which is also in Budapest, in the Hungarian National Museum. However, the Monomachus Crown may have had another function, and the Holy Crown has probably been remodelled, and uses elements of different origins. The date assigned to the present configuration of the Holy Crown varies, but is most commonly put around the late 12th century. The Hungarian coronation insignia consists of the Holy Crown, the sceptre, the orb, and the mantle. The orb has the coat-of-arms of Charles I of Hungary (1310–1342). In popular tradition the Holy Crown was thought to be older, dating to the time of the first King Stephen I of Hungary, crowned in 1000/1001.\n\nIt was first called the Holy Crown in 1256. During the 14th century, royal power came to be represented not simply by a crown, but by just one specific object: the Holy Crown. This also meant that the Kingdom of Hungary was a special state: they were not looking for a crown to inaugurate a king, but rather, they were looking for a king for the crown; as written by Crown Guard Péter Révay. He also depicts that \"the Holy Crown is for the Hungarians what the Lost Ark is for the Jewish people\".\n\nSince 2000, the Holy Crown has been on display in the central Domed Hall of the Hungarian Parliament Building.\n\n\nAs is the case with all European Christian crowns, it symbolizes a halo and thus signifies that the wearer rules by Divine Right. According to popular tradition, St Stephen I held up the crown before his death (in the year 1038) to offer it to the Virgin Mary to seal a divine contract between her and the divine crown. After this, Mary was depicted not only as \"patrona\" (patron saint) for the Kingdom of Hungary but also as \"regina\" (i.e. \"queen\"). This contract was supposed to empower the crown with divine force to help the future kings of Hungary and did help reinforce the political system based on the so-called \"Doctrine of the Holy Crown\" ().\n\nPéter Révay, a Crown Guard, expounded this doctrine in his works \"Commentarius De Sacra Regni Hungariae Corona\" (Explanation of the Holy Crown of the Kingdom of Hungary, published in Augsburg, 1613) and \"De monarchia et Sacra Corona Regni Hungariae\" (About the Monarchy and the Holy Crown of Hungary, Frankfurt, 1659).\nAt the core of this doctrine was the notion that the crown itself had personhood and as a legal entity is identical to the state of Hungary. It is superior to the ruling monarch, who rules \"in the name of the crown\".\n\nAccording to the most accepted theory, which is represented in the publications of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and also of the Hungarian Catholic Episcopal Conference, the Holy Crown of Hungary consists of two main parts: \"abroncs\" (rim, hoop) the \"corona graeca\", and \"keresztpántok\" (cross straps) the \"corona latina\". It was created during the reign of Béla III under Byzantine influence. (The Hungarian king Béla III was brought up in the Byzantine court and was for a period the official heir to the throne there.)\nThe crowning of Stephen I, the first king of Hungary, who was later canonized Saint Stephen, marks the beginning of Hungarian statehood. The date is variously given as Christmas 1000 or 1 January 1001.\n\nOne version of the origin of the crown is written by bishop Hartvik (between 1095–1116), in which the \"Pope\" has sent King Stephen I \"his blessings and a crown\". The basis for this belief is a biography by bishop Hartvik written around 1100-1110 at the request of King Könyves Kálmán. According to \"Hartvik’s legend\", St Stephen sent Archbishop Astrik of Esztergom to Rome to ask for or require (both are possible from original Latin script) a crown from the \"Pope\", but it does not tell the name of the Pope. No matter how much Astrik hurried, the Polish prince, Mieszko I's envoy was quicker, and the crown was prepared for the future Polish king. The Pope had seen a dream during the night, seeing the angel of the Lord telling him there will be another envoy from another nation, asking for a crown for their own king. The angel told the Pope: \"There will be another envoy from an unknown folk, who will ask for [or require] a crown, too, please give the crown to them, as they deserve it\". The next day Astrik approached the Pope so he gave the crown to him. \"Hartvik’s legend\" appeared in the liturgical books and breviaries in Hungary around 1200, recalling the then-existing Pope, Pope Sylvester II.\n\nConsequently, the story of how the crown had been sent by Pope Sylvester II spread throughout the Christian world, so in 1613, crown guard Péter Révay states that the entire crown was given to St Stephen by Pope Sylvester II. However, this legend can be considered a myth, as Mieszko I was not living at the same time as either St. Stephen I or Pope Sylvester II. Also, in the \"Greater Legend\" of St Stephen, written around the time he was canonised (1083), we learn only that \"in the fifth year after the death of his father (...) they brought a Papal letter of blessings (...) and the Lord’s favoured one, Stephen, was chosen to be king, and was anointed with oil and fortunately crowned with the diadem of royal honour\". This legend clearly lacks the information that the crown was from Rome. Moreover, there are no documents found in Vatican City on the granting of the crown, even though the Vatican has a clear interest in handing over the crown from Rome, as it is representing dominance over the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nThere is another version on the origin of Holy Crown, which is a popular fallacy: Thietmar von Merseburg (died in 1018) reports that Otto III of the Holy Roman Empire has consented to the coronation of St. Stephen, and the Pope is sending his blessings; so many historians argued he has also sent a crown, however, does not report on any crown, so it cannot follow any fact.\n\nBeside the two main theories – donation by the pope and creation in the time of Béla III – there exist a number of different theories of the more romantic kind, putting the origin of the crown into the far past and into Asia.\n\nThe question to what extent the upper part of the Holy Crown indeed belonged to the crown of King Stephen I remained open until 1978, when the coronation insignia was returned to Hungary and a thorough examination could be carried out.\n\nThe differing styles and techniques used in making the enamel pictures and the fact that the inscriptions on the diadem are in Greek and on the bands in Latin suggest that the two parts were probably made in two different periods. However, we have to note that there are no known representations of any kind in which the crown is separated: the Holy Crown is always shown as one.\n\nThe Crown is a coronation crown, which should be worn only on the occasion of a coronation, and for the rest of the time two crown guards (koronaőr) guard it. Apart from this, there are only two other people who can touch it, the \"nádorispán\" (the highest secular title), who puts it onto a pillow during coronation, and the Archbishop of Esztergom (primate of Hungary, the highest ecclesiastical title), who places it on the head of the king.\n\nThe Holy Crown was made of gold and decorated with nineteen enamel \"pantokrator\" picture (pantokrator is a Greek word meaning \"the master of the universe\") as well as semi-precious stones, genuine pearls, and almandine. It has three parts: \"abroncs\" (rim, hoop) (\"corona graeca\"), \"keresztpántok\" (cross straps) (\"corona latina\"), and the cross on the top, which is today crooked.\n\nThere are four hanging pendants (pendilia) dangling from chains on each side of the diadem and one in the back.\n\nThe \"abroncs\" (rim, hoop) \"corona graeca\" (\"Greek Crown\") is 5.2 cm wide with a diameter of 20.5 cm.\n\nThe two aquamarine stones with cut surfaces on the back of the diadem were added as replacements by King Matthias II (1608–1619). The enamel picture on the front depicts Christ Pantokrator. On the rim to the right and left of Jesus are pictures of the archangels Michael and Gabriel, followed by half-length images of the Saints George and Demetrius, and Cosmas and Damian.\n\nIn the arched frame on the back of the diadem Emperor Michael VII Doukas (1071–1078) is depicted. Below it to the left is the half-length picture of \"Kon. Porphyrogennetos\", this probably being either Emperor Michael’s brother and co-emperor Konstantios Doukas or of his son and heir Constantine Doukas, both having been born in the purple. To the right there is a picture of the Hungarian King Géza I (1074–1077), with the Greek inscription: \"ΓΕΩΒΙΤΖΑϹ ΠΙΣΤΟϹ ΚΡΑΛΗϹ ΤΟΥΡΚΙΑϹ\" (\"Geōbitzas pistós králēs Tourkías\", meaning \"Géza I, faithful kralj of the land of the Turks\"). The contemporary Byzantine name for the Hungarians was \"Turks\", while the Hungarian branch of the Greek Orthodox Church, under Constantinople's jurisdiction, was named the \"Metropolitanate of Tourkia\" (Hungary), and the head of this church was the \"Metropolitan of Tourkia\" (Hungary). As was customary in the hierarchy of the Byzantine state, clear differentiation is made between style of the emperors and that of the Hungarian king by using a hellenized form of the common South Slavic word for \"king\" (Kralj) for Géza. The saints and the Greek rulers have halos while Géza does not. The inscriptions of the emperors’ names are in red, while the Hungarian king’s is in dark blue or black.\n\nThe enamel plaques on the circular band, the panel depicting Christ Pantokrator, and the picture of Emperor Michael were all affixed to the crown using different techniques. The picture of the emperor could not be attached to the rim in the same way as the Pantokrator picture on the front. The frame was folded upwards and the picture of the emperor was nailed to the edge. We can thus conclude that the picture of Michael VII was not originally designed for this crown, but was probably used first somewhere else.\n\nThe corona graeca with its pointed and arched plaques is identical to the form of the crowns of the Byzantine empresses – in other words it was a woman’s crown. It was given by Emperor Michael Dukas VII to King Géza’s wife, known only as Synadene, around 1075. The gift was not a new crown, but rather an old crown designed for a woman that had to be selected from the Emperor’s treasury and remodelled. The enamel pictures that become outdated were removed, since either represented earlier historical figures or were not appropriate for the Hungarian queen according to court protocol. It was in this form that the crown was sent to Hungary.\nThere is another view that the Géza depicted on the \"corona graeca\" is not King Géza I but St Stephen's father. This view is confirmed by the fact that Grand Prince Géza is depicted on the \"corona gracea\" without a crown, although carrying a royal sceptre.\n\nThe \"keresztpántok\" (cross straps) \"corona latina\" (\"Latin Crown\") is made of four 5.2-cm-wide gold strips welded to the edge of a square central panel (7.2*7.2 cm); the strips are usually assumed to have been originally made for some other object, and adapted for the crown. It is not an independent object, as it has no function alone. It was designed to be attached to the top rim of the \"Corona Græca\" and provide a dome-shaped top.\n\nThe inscription on the pictures of the saints and the style of their lettering suggest the date when they were made. Amidst the antique-style capital letter, the T in Thomas and the second U in Paulus are formed in the style characteristic of the Latin letters used on Byzantine coins, a practice abandoned in the middle of the eleventh century. They may have decorated a reliquary box or a portable altar given to István I by the pope, or possibly the treasure binding of a book. It is also possible, although cannot be verified, that István I received a crown as a gift from one of the popes, reciprocating his – historically documented - gifts. The picture of the apostles, however, based on their style, cannot be dated to around 1000.\n\nThe intersecting bands are edged with beaded gold wire that closes off the lower end of the bands and finishes off the system of decoration. There are twelve pearls on the central panel and a total of seventy-two altogether on the Corona Latina, symbolising the number of Christ’s disciples. (Acts 10.1).\n\nThe central panel is decorated with a square cloisonné enamel picture depicting Christ Pantokrator. Each band has two (altogether eight) pictures of standing apostles identical to the first eight listed in Acts 1.13.\n\nÉva Kovács and Zsuzsa Lovag suggest that the \"corona latina\" was originally a large Byzantine liturgical asterisk from a Greek monastery in Hungary. In order to get it to fit into it new role the apostles at the bottom of each of the four arms of this asterisk were cut off before it was very crudely attached to the inside of the corona graeca to transform this Byzantine open crown into a closed crown (i.e., the type of crown proper to the \"Autocrat\", the senior emperor or monarch in Byzantine imperial protocol) and to provide a base for the reliquary cross at its summit (see Cross).\n\nThe cross is attached to the crown in a rough manner, rising from the midriff of Christ in the central enamel plaque at the top of the crown. This addition might have taken place during the 16th century. The cross was knocked crooked in the 17th century when the crown was damaged, possibly by the top of the iron chest housing the insignia being hastily closed without the crown having been placed in it properly. The cross has since been left in this slanted position, and is now typically depicted as such.\n\nÉva Kovács suggests that the present plain cross on the top of the crown is a replacement of an original double-barred reliquary cross containing three pieces of the True Cross and that it was this presence of the True Cross in the Holy Crown which made it holy. She states that “Szabolcs Vajay, called to my attention a strange incident in the crown’s history which had completely escaped everybody’s attention. Before Queen Isabella handed over the regalia to Ferdinand in 1551, she broke the cross off the crown’s peak for her son, John Sigismund. According to a contemporary Polish chronicler, John Sigismund wore this cross on his chest till the end of his life, “ ... because he who possess this cross will again come into possession of the missing parts which, subjected to the power of the cross, had belonged to it\".\n\nLater, the cross became the property of Sigismund Bathory who, persuaded by his confessor, bestowed it on Emperor Rudolf II. This was reported by an Italian envoy in Prague who also told the Isabella-John Sigismund story.” She also notes that “Several small fragments of the True Cross were in possession of the Arpad dynasty. As a point of interest, it is precisely the smallest ones, those set into the cross on the chest, that are attributed to St. Stephen. About a tiny fragment of the True Cross, a Russian chronicler recording King Geza II’s campaigns wrote that it had been the holy king’s property and, despite its small size, it was a relic of great force. We are, perhaps, not off the track when surmising that the Hungarian crown was holy because it had once been reinforced with a fragment of the victory-bringing relic. . . . we know quite few reliquary crowns. To mention but the most obvious example, let us cite Charles IV’s crown provided with a cross containing a thorn relic.”\n\nLater, it was the Crown itself, rather than St. Stephen's cross reliquary that came to be regarded as holy through its traditional association with St. Stephen. Éva Kovács further notes in this regard the early use of the patriarchal or double-barred cross and crown in the ancient Hungarian royal coat of arms. Since reliquary crosses frequently take such a double-barred form, the use of a patriarchal cross in the royal arms would be a direct reference to and representation of this royal relic. This association between the crown and this royal relic would also help to substantiate the theory that the Holy Crown was always intended to serve its historical role of legitimatizing the position of its wearer as the true divinely appointed king of Hungary.\n\nThe form of the Holy Crown is identical to that of the kamelaukion-type crowns with closed tops introduced in the Byzantine Empire. The use of many pictures is also typical of Byzantine crowns. When the intersecting bands were added to the corona graeca during the rule of Béla III, who had been brought up in Constantinople, the bands were decorated just as the corona graeca was, perhaps with the intention of imitating the Byzantine crowns.\n\nBeside the using of the intersecting bands of the \"corona latina\", which probably came from the treasury of St. István, at the time of the creation of the crown there existed further expectation that the coronation insignia would eventually include additional gold works that could be linked to the first, beatified Hungarian king, István.\n\nThe inscription embroidered onto the coronation mantle indicates with all certainty that István I and Queen Gizella had it made in 1031.\n\nThe coronation sceptre with the orb at the end can also be dated to the time of St István. On the seals of Henry II, Holy Roman Emperor, and Rudolph III of Burgundy, the rulers are holding identically shaped sceptres. Such short-staffed sceptres ending in orbs were not in use as insignia earlier or later.\n\nThe Holy Crown has had a lively history, having been stolen, hidden, lost, recovered, and taken abroad many times. During the Árpád dynasty (1000–1301), the coronation insignia were kept in the coronation city of Székesfehérvár. Later, the crown was housed in one of three locations: Visegrád (in Pest county); Pozsony (present-day Bratislava, Slovakia); or Buda. In 1805–1806 the Crown was kept for about three months in the castle at Munkács (now Mukachevo, Ukraine). Lajos Kossuth took the crown and the coronation jewels with him after the collapse of the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 and buried them in a wooden box in a willow forest, near Orşova in Transylvania (Romania). They were subsequently dug up and returned to the royal castle in Buda in 1853.\n\nAt the end of the Second World War the crown jewels were recovered in Mattsee, Austria, on 4 May 1945 by the U.S. 86th Infantry Division. The crown jewels were transported to Western Europe and eventually given to the United States Army by the Hungarian Crown Guard for safekeeping from the Soviet Union. For much of the Cold War the crown was held at the United States Bullion Depository (Fort Knox, Kentucky) alongside the bulk of America's gold reserves and other priceless historical items. After undergoing extensive historical research to verify the crown as genuine, it was returned to Hungary by order of U.S. President Jimmy Carter on 6 January 1978. Most current academic knowledge about Hungarian royal garments originates from this modern research. Following substantial U.S. political debate, the agreement to return the jewels contained many conditions to ensure the people of Hungary, rather than its Communist government, took possession of the jewels.\n\nAfter the fall of Communism, the crown was reincorporated into the national coat of arms in 1990, the National Assembly choosing the pre-war coat of arms in preference to the crown-less Kossuth arms of 1849.\n\nUniquely in Europe, most of the medieval ensemble of coronation regalia has survived. On 1 January 2000, the Holy Crown of Hungary was moved to the Hungarian Parliament Building from the Hungarian National Museum. The sceptre, orb and the coronation sword were also moved to the Parliament.\n\nThe very large coronation mantle remains in a glass inert gas vault at the National Museum due to its delicate, faint condition. Unlike the crown and accompanying insignia, the originally red coloured mantle is considered to date back to Stephen I, and was made circa 1030. Old records describe the robe as handiwork of the queen and her sisters and the mantle's middle back bears the king's only known portrait (which shows his crown was not the currently existing one). A circular inscription sewn in Latin identifies the coat as a bishop's chasuble.\n\nThe sceptre is considered the artistically most valuable piece of the Hungarian royal inventory. It contains a solid rock crystal ball decorated with engraved lions, a rare product of the 10th-century Fatimid caliphate. Its handle contains a wooden rod surrounded by very fine wrought silver ornaments.\n\nThe ceremonial straight sword kept in the Holy Crown collection is a 14th-century Italian product. However, what is said to be an original coronation sword of Stephen I has been in Prague's St. Vitus Cathedral since 1368.\n\nA lance claimed to have belonged to King Stephen I, and seen in the Mantle portrait, was reportedly obtained by the Holy Roman Emperor circa 1100.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4544090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4544090", "title": "Interprofessional education", "text": "Interprofessional education\n\nInterprofessional education (also known as inter-professional education or “IPE”) refers to occasions when students from two or more professions in health and social care learn together during all or part of their professional training with the object of cultivating collaborative practice for providing client- or patient-centered health care.\n\nInterprofessional learning involves students learning from students from other professions, as well as learning with students from other professions, for example in the classroom, and learning about other professions. Interprofessional learning and teaching can take place at an academic institution, but also regularly occurs in workplace environments where students gain applicable and practical experience.\n\nAssociated terms include \"multi-professional education\", \"common learning\", \"shared learning\", and \"interdisciplinary learning.\" In contrast to multiprofessional education interprofessional education involves interactive learning focused on active collaboration. It is primarily used in the domains of health and social care, where collaborative and patient-centred practice are expected to improve the effectiveness of health care and the quality of life of health & social service users.\n\nThere is debate about the effectiveness of interprofessional education in enabling collaborative practice. Research and systematic reviews continue to identify some evidence of effectiveness in changing attitudes. But more empirical evidence of longer term impact is needed, particularly in respect of effects on service quality and service users’ and patients’ experience. Nevertheless, more evaluations of IPE have been conducted than for many other commonly accepted educational approaches.\n\nRecognizing the importance of interprofessional education as one of the innovative approaches that can help tackle the global health workforce challenge, the World Health Organization (WHO) convened a WHO Study Group on Interprofessional Education & Collaborative Practice in 2007 to articulate a greater understanding of this issue within a global context. It was tasked with providing guidance to Member States on how they could use interprofessional collaboration to scale-up and build more flexible health workforces that enable local health needs to be met efficiently and effectively while maximizing resources.\n\nThe WHO Study Group engaged various partners and undertook a program of work that culminated in the publication of WHO’s \"Framework for Action on Interprofessional Education and Collaborative Practice\" in March 2010. The Framework highlights the current status of interprofessional collaboration around the world, identifies the mechanisms that shape successful collaborative teamwork, and outlines a series of action items that policymakers can apply within their local health system. It provides strategies and ideas that can help health policymakers implement the elements of interprofessional education and collaborative practice that will be most beneficial in their own jurisdiction.\n\nThe WHO Study Group consisted of almost 30 top education, practice and policy experts from across every region of the world. Overall leadership was provided by Co-Chairs Prof. John HV Gilbert (University of British Columbia & Canadian Interprofessional Health Collaborative) and Dr. Jean Yan (World Health Organization) and a secretariat led by Mr. Steven J. Hoffman (World Health Organization). This led to a report describing the necessity to act on changes in (higher) education and in clinical institutions to implement and secure interprofessional collaborative practice.\n\nPartners included the following organizations:\n\nSince 2012 a World Committee is active, supervising the biennial All Together Better Health (ATBH) Conferences and overarching the regional networks around the world. The management structure of this World Committee was restructured in 2015, with Prof. Andre Vyt serving as first chair.\n\nInterprofessional education (IPE) is becoming a more common component of medical school curriculum in the United States. IPE programs have existed transiently at various schools since the 1960s, but interprofessional education programs are growing, as they are increasingly viewed as a means of reducing medical errors and improving the health care system. The following medical schools currently have interprofessional programs as a part of their curriculum:\n\n\n\n\nResources and organisations:\n"}
{"id": "47411434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47411434", "title": "Konstantin Eiges", "text": "Konstantin Eiges\n\nKonstantin Romanovich Eiges (surname sometimes spelt Eyges, Russian Константин Романович Эйгес, 24 May (Old Style)/ 5 June 1875—2 Dec 1950) was a Russian composer, teacher and pianist.\n\nEiges was born in Bogodukhov (now Bohodukhiv in Kharkiv oblast, Ukraine), to Jewish parents, the doctor Ruvim Manasiyevich (also known as Roman Mikhailovich) Eiges (born Vilnius, 1840) and his wife Sofiya (Shifra) Iosifovna, née Eltsin. He was one of ten children, many of whom went on to artistic or academic careers; Vladimir Eiges (1877-1949) was a professor of mathematics, Aleksandr (1880-1943), also a mathematician, was an authority on Anton Chekhov, Veniamin (1888-1956) was an artist, Yekaterina (1890-1958) was a poet and sometime girlfriend of Sergei Esenin.\n\nEiges attended Moscow Conservatory between 1900 and 1905, where his teachers included Mikhail Ippolitov-Ivanov (composition), Sergei Taneyev (counterpoint) and Adolf Yaroshevsky (piano). He was a colleague of Sergei Rachmaninoff and Nikolai Medtner. His pupils included Alexei Stanchinsky. Most of his compositions are for piano solo, though he also wrote songs and chamber works, a cantata \"The Song of Oleg the Wise\", and a symphonic poem, \"The Snowstorm\". Eiges wrote numerous essays on music and philosophy, including essays on Richard Wagner and Alexander Skriabin.\n\nEiges was the father of the composer Oleg Eiges (1905-1992) and the artist Sergei Eiges (1910-1944).\n\n"}
{"id": "23045715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23045715", "title": "Lewes Bonfire", "text": "Lewes Bonfire\n\nLewes Bonfire or Bonfire, for short, describes a set of celebrations held in the town of Lewes, Sussex that constitute the United Kingdom's largest and most famous Bonfire Night festivities, with Lewes being called the bonfire capital of the world.\n\nAlways held on 5 November (unless the 5th falls on a Sunday, in which case it's held on Saturday 4th), the event not only marks Guy Fawkes Night - the date of the uncovering of the Gunpowder Plot in 1605 - but also commemorates the memory of the seventeen Protestant martyrs from the town burned at the stake for their faith during the Marian Persecutions.\n\nLewes is home to the largest and most celebrated of the festivities in the Sussex bonfire tradition. There are seven societies putting on six separate parades and firework displays throughout Lewes on November the 5th. As well as this, 25-30 societies from all around Sussex come to Lewes on the fifth to march the streets. This can mean up to 5,000 people taking part in the celebrations, and up to 80,000 spectators attending in the county market town with a population of just over 17,000.\n\nThe history of bonfire celebrations on 5 November throughout the United Kingdom have their origins with the Gunpowder Plot of 1605, where a group of English Catholics, including the now infamous Guy Fawkes, were foiled in their plot to blow up the House of Lords. \n\nThe following January, an act entitled ‘An Acte for a publique Thanksgiving to Almighty God ever year of the Fifth day of November’ was passed, which held that 5 November should be held in perpetual remembrance of the plot, with a special service held in every Church of England parish church.\n\nCelebrations in Lewes were not planned or carried out annually, but were more random events that more closely resembled riots. They continued until they were banned by Oliver Cromwell during the Commonwealth. However, they were reintroduced when King Charles II returned, but still on a random basis. Interest waned by the end of the 18th century but in the 1820s large groups of Bonfire Boys started celebrating with fireworks and large bonfires. The celebrations became rowdier and rowdier until 1847, when police forces were drafted in from London to sort out the Bonfire Boys. There were riots and fighting, and restrictions were clamped down on the celebrators, their locations moved to Wallands Park, at that time fields, not the suburb it is today. However, in 1850 they were allowed back to the High Streets. By this time the former riots had become much more like the processions carried out today. In 1853 the first two societies, Cliffe and Lewes Borough were founded, and most of the others were founded later in the same century. The cult of the Sussex martyrs was instigated at a time of the restoration of the Catholic hierarchy in England, bolstered by an increase in the Irish Catholic population, as well as the high-profile conversion to Catholicism of members of the Oxford movement, including Cardinal Newman and former Archdeacon of Chichester, Henry Edward Manning. In the mid 19th century the practice of burning an effigy of Pope Paul V at the Lewes Bonfire celebrations began. Paul V was a peaceable man who happened to be pope at the time of the Gunpowder Plot in 1605 and who cannot be held responsible for the Gunpowder Plot or the persecution protestants in the reign of Mary I, which were linked at this time by a misunderstanding of the past. In 1893 William Richardson, rector of the Southover district of Lewes, held sermons on the Sunday before 5 November warning about the perils of Catholicism. Many attendees were members of the newly-formed Orange Lodge in Lewes.\n\nThere is a history of religious antagonism and anti-popery around the bonfire celebrations in Lewes. In the 1930s the mayor of Lewes requested that 'no popery' banners be removed and an end to the burning of effigies of Pope Paul V. In the 1950s the Cliffe Bonfire Society was banned from the Bonfire Council from taking part in the United Grand Procession for its refusal to stop carrying a 'no popery' banner and banners commemorating the 16th century Protestant martyrs burned at Lewes. In 1981 Ian Paisley visited Lewes on Bonfire Night and tried to fan the flames of conflict by handing out anti-Catholic pamphlets. His intervention back-fired and the following year he was burned in effigy. Today, anti-Catholic attitudes are rare and the militant Calvinism that continues in Northern Ireland is all but extinct in Lewes. In the 21st century, controversy continues to be associated around the Bonfire societies and competing definitions of tradition and bigotry. For instance, the burning in effigy of Pope Paul V was described in 2012 as \"a scandalous piece of stone-cold bigotry\" In 2017 the Lewes Borough Bonfire Society agreed to end the tradition of blacking-up and wearing skulls and horns as part of its Zulu costumes.\n\nTo mark the demise of the 17 Lewes Martyrs, 17 burning crosses are carried through the town, and a wreath-laying ceremony occurs at the War Memorial in the centre of town. Ladies’ and men’s races take place, pulling flaming tar barrels in a \"barrel run\", which takes place along Cliffe High Street at the start of the evening. A flaming tar barrel is then thrown into the River Ouse; this is said to symbolise the throwing of the magistrates into the river after they read the Riot Act to the bonfire boys in 1847. The festivities culminate in five separate bonfire displays.\n\nA number of large effigies are drawn through the streets before being burned at the bonfires. Each year these include Guy Fawkes, as well as Pope Paul V, who became head of the Roman Catholic Church in 1605. In addition, each of the five main local societies creates a topical \"tableau\",(a large three-dimensional model packed with fireworks) and the Cliffe and Southover societies display on pikes the heads (also in effigy) of its current \"Enemies of Bonfire\", who range from nationally reviled figures to local officials who have attempted to place restrictions on the event. In 2001 effigies of Osama bin Laden were burned by the Cliffe, Commercial Square and Lewes Borough bonfire societies, causing the Lewes Bonfire to receive more press attention than usual, being featured on the front page of some national newspapers, as did the Firle Bonfire Society’s 2003 choice of a gypsy caravan. In 2014 police investigated complaints about plans to burn two effigies of Alex Salmond, the First Minister of Scotland, and one model was subsequently withdrawn from the event. In 2015 effigies of David Cameron with a pig, Jeremy Clarkson and Sepp Blatter were burned.\n\nThe \"Daily Telegraph\" has described the night as \"a head-on collision of Halloween and Mardi Gras\". Up to 80,000 people have been known to attend this local spectacle, coming from all over the South and sometimes further afield. As the event has grown in recent years, the police presence on the night has increased to deal with the large crowds attracted to the event. The event is organised by the local bonfire societies, under the auspices of the Lewes Bonfire Council in conjunction with Sussex Police, Surrey Police and East Sussex Fire & Rescue Service. St John Ambulance has treatment centres and ambulances around procession routes and bonfire sites to care for anyone who has been injured. In recent years, railway stations at Lewes, Falmer, Glynde at Southease have had planned closures for the duration of the event due to foreseeable overcrowding.\n\nBonfire night in Lewes hosts seven bonfire societies from nearby towns and villages. All societies attend \"outmeetings\" or \"outfires\" (the nomenclature varies between the societies), where they march with the societies from other towns and villages nearby on their respective bonfire nights, before or after the Fifth in Lewes. On the Fifth, the first six societies process separately around their own particular quarters before all except the Cliffe and South Street join together in Western Road to parade down St. Anne's Street, the High Street and School Hill, followed by societies from other towns and villages. After several processions, including acts of Remembrance for the war dead, each society marches to its own fire site on the edge of the town, where there is a large bonfire and firework display, and effigies are burned. The societies then return to their headquarters for Bonfire Prayers. Whilst marching nearly all members carry torches, some ignite and drop bangers (locally called \"rookies\", short for rook scarers), and some carry burning crosses, banners, musical instruments or burning letters spelling out the initials of the society. Many of those processing wear \"smuggler uniforms\" (striped jumpers, white trousers, black boots and optional red hats), with each society having a different coloured jumper. Members have to make or buy their own costumes. Torch-making is a time-consuming process and begins in September, with many society members joining in. \n\nThe Cliffe, founded in 1853, traditionally represents the Cliffe and Lansdown areas of Lewes (centred around Cliffe High Street), but recently they've also claimed the South Malling suburb with the addition of the \"Malling Bonfire Society\". Their smugglers' jumpers are black and white, and the pioneer fronts are Vikings and French Revolutionaries. The Dorset Arms is the society's headquarters, and the local church is St. Thomas à Becket's. Currently the only society to march under a \"No Popery\" banner and to continue in the tradition to \"burn\" (more accurately explode with fireworks) an effigy of Pope Paul V at Bonfire.\n\nFounded in 1855, they represent the St. John's area north of Lewes Castle, based on Commercial Square, which is where their headquarters, the Elephant and Castle pub, is based. The pioneers are Native Americans (this theme was picked after Lewesians visited the US in the 19th century and realised their hardships) and American Civil War soldiers, and the smugglers wear gold and black jumpers. The society also claims the Wallands Park and Landport suburbs. The local church is St John sub Castro.\n\nLewes Borough is the joint oldest society with Cliffe, formed in 1853. Until 1859 they were known as the ‘Lewes Bonfire Society’ and have been marching the streets of the town for over 150 years.\nBorough is the ‘home’ of the Zulu which is their First Pioneer Group and the Tudor which is the Society’s Second Pioneer Group. Their jumpers are blue and white. \nIn 1863 the famous Monster Iron Key of the Ancient Borough of Lewes weighing nearly a quarter hundredweight,(over 12 kilos) was carried in the procession for the first time. The same key is still carried today in the Borough’s processions and is a symbol that on 5 November the ‘Borough Boys’ are given the freedom of the streets of Lewes. Representing the western half of Lewes and located on Western Road, their headquarters is St. Mary's Social Club, which unlike the others, is not a pub. The local church is St. Anne's.\n\nSouthover has roots in the mid-19th century but it disbanded in 1985, and then reformed in 2005. It represents the Cranedown and St. Pancras areas as well as the old village of Southover. Located on Southover High Street, the local church is St. John the Baptist's, where there is a war memorial, and the headquarters is the King's Head. Their jumpers are red and black and their pioneers are monks (representing the remains of the Priory of St. Pancras nearby) and buccaneers. Southover march with the British Imperial Marching Band, the Pentacle Drummers, and either Pandemonium or Earthquake drumming bands. Banners carried include a large Tudor rose (to represent Anne of Cleves' House on Southover High Street) and a banner bearing a picture of William of Orange landing at Brixham in southwest England on 5 November 1688. Southover's firesite is at the Convent Field, behind Lewes Football Club. Southover has a particular affinity with Remembrance, and holds a service at its own war memorial as well as one at the main town war memorial.\n\nSouth Street was formed in 1913 as a society for the children of members of the Cliffe; however, both Cliffe and South Street now accept members of all ages. Their jumpers are brown and cream, and their pioneers are (first) Colonial Period (mid-18th century) and (second) English Civil War (mid-17th century) soldiers. They are based on South Street and the small area to the west between it and the River Ouse, and their headquarters is The Snowdrop, South Street. Their firesite is on the Railway Land.\n\nWaterloo was reformed in 1954 and represents the area just to the east of the main Commercial Square part (there is a fair bit of overlap between the two) based on Market Street, a quarter of Lewes with little population as it was heavily destroyed by the local planning council to make way for roads. Waterloo's jumpers are red and white and their pioneers are Mongols and Ancient Greeks and Romans. Their headquarters is the Lamb Inn.\n\nFounded in 1967 specifically for children, Nevill has remained a juvenile society and represents the Nevill Estate. Their headquarters is St. Mary's Social Centre. They hold their celebrations a week or two before the other societies with help from those six. Their pioneers are Valencians, Medieval, and British Military (1900-1950) their jumpers green and white.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49010379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49010379", "title": "Luck &amp; Logic", "text": "Luck &amp; Logic\n\nThe story takes place in the year L.C. 922, where the whole of mankind is facing an unprecedented crisis. Following the end of a 100-year war on the mythical world of Tetraheaven, the Majins who lost the war sought a safe haven and invaded the human world (called 'Septpia'). The government was forced to fight by dispatching Logicalists who are part of the ALCA, a special police force dedicated to protecting the streets from the foreigners of another world. These Logicalists are given a special power that will allow them to enter a 'trance' with the Goddesses from the other world.\n\nOne day, Yoshichika Tsurugi, a seemingly ordinary civilian living peacefully with his family and lacking 'Logic' meets the beautiful Goddess Athena after saving some people from a Majin attack. Athena possesses the 'Logic' that Yoshichika should have lost. What kind of unexpected destiny awaits these two? The fate of the world's future is decided by the 'Luck' and 'Logic' of these Logicalists.\n\nA 12-episode anime television series by Doga Kobo aired from January 9 to March 26, 2016. The opening theme is \"STORY\" by Kenshō Ono and the ending theme is by Emi Nitta.\n\nA new 12-episode television series titled aired from July 1 to September 23, 2017. Funimation has licensed this both series in North America.\n\nThe Luck & Logic trading card game was officially released in Japan on January 28, 2016. Trial deck 1 and 2, Brave Logic and Rinne Logic respectively, as well as the first booster expansion, Growth & Genesis, was released in English on the 24th of June 2016. Booster set 5, Trance Re:union, was the last set released for English edition of the game, which released the 31st of March 2017.\n\nLuck & Logic is played between two players with pre-constructed decks. Players take turns playing cards, using abilities, and initiating battles. The game ends when one of two win conditions are met.\n\nThere are two win conditions in Luck & Logic. A player wins by destroying all six of his opponent's gates or when his opponent refreshes twice. Refreshing is the act of shuffling one's drop zone back into the deck.\n\nThese decks consist of 60 cards in total, 50 cards in the main deck and 10 cards in the gate deck. The main deck contains member, tactics, and paradox cards, and the gate deck must consist of exactly 10 gate cards. You may have up to four cards of the same name in the main deck, and up to two cards of the same Gate number in the gate deck.\n\nThere are three types of members in Luck & Logic: Logicalists, Foreigners, and Tranceunions.\n\nLogicalists and Foreigners are members that can combine through Trance to form Tranceunions. These members can be played from hand or \"sortied\" by paying its cost using \"stock,\" as long as its level is equal to or less than the number of cards in the player's level zone. Tranceunions may have a Logic Drive ability that can be played in the main phase, as long as the Tranceunion has \"soul\" under it. Tranceunions obtain \"soul\" when they are played through the Trance method. If they are played from the hand without using Trance, they do not have \"soul\" and cannot use their Logic Drive.\n\nTactics cards are \"event\" cards that can be played during a battle, and they give the player's member an advantage in the battle.\n\nParadoxes are horizontal cards that, like Tactics cards, can be played during a battle. These paradoxes change the rules of the battle and may swing the outcome of the battle.\n\nThese are the cards that make up the gate deck. The gate cards are placed face-down on every circle. When a gate is destroyed, it is flipped face-up. Destroying all of the opponent's gates is a win condition.\n\n"}
{"id": "1141894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1141894", "title": "Maore dialect", "text": "Maore dialect\n\nMaore Comorian, or Shimaore (French \"Mahorais\"), is one of the two indigenous languages spoken in the French-ruled Comorian islands of Mayotte; Shimaore being a dialect of the Comorian language, while ShiBushi is an unrelated Malayo-Polynesian language originally from Madagascar. Historically, Shimaore- and ShiBushi-speaking villages on Mayotte have been clearly identified, but Shimaore tends to be the \"de facto\" indigenous \"lingua franca\" in everyday life, because of the larger Shimaore-speaking population. Only Shimaore is represented on the local television news program by RFO. The 2002 census references 80,140 speakers of Shimaore in Mayotte itself, to which one would have to add people living outside the island, mostly in metropolitan France. There are also 20,000 speakers of Comorian in Madagascar, of which 3,000 are Shimaore speakers.\n\nThe same 2002 census indicates that 37,840 persons responded as knowing how to read or write Shimaore. However this number has to be taken with caution, since it was a few years after this census was taken that a standard writing system was introduced.\n\nFrom a sociolinguistic perspective, French tends to be regarded by many Shimaore speakers as the language of higher education and prestige, and there is a temptation by native Mahorans to provide an all-French education to their children. This puts a lot of pressure on Shimaore and the language may become endangered in the near future if nothing is done.\n\nAlthough French remains the official language in Mayotte, Shimaore will probably be taught in Mahoran schools starting in the next few years, and a pilot project began in fall 2004. As in many parts of France where local languages are introduced in the school system, this has led to tensions between partisans of a French-centered education system and administrations, versus those promoting a more diversified approach. Shimaore's position in this regard is however different from other French regions (such as Brittany), since the language is locally spoken by a majority of the population. The project in Mayotte has been inspired by similar projects involving Swahili in eastern Africa countries.\n\nMayotte is a geographically small territory, but frequent exchanges between villages have not started until the last quarter of the twentieth century. As of 2004, linguistic differences between the east and west part of the island, and between the main city of Mamoudzou and the remote villages, are still noticeable, especially when it comes to phonological differences. One typical example is the word \"u-la\" (to eat), notably pronounced this way in the city due to the influence of a brand of yogurt bearing the same name, but pronounced \"u-dja\" in other parts of the island.\n\nShimaore was traditionally written with an informal French-based Latin alphabet. On 22 February 2006, the \"Conseil de la Culture, de l'Education et de l'Environnement de Mayotte\" introduced an official alphabet developed by \"Association ShiMé\" that utilizes the basic Latin alphabet without c, q, and x and adds three letters: ɓ, ɗ, and v̄.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45656725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45656725", "title": "Native American Literature Symposium", "text": "Native American Literature Symposium\n\nThe Native American Literature Symposium (NALS) is a leading Native American studies conference. It was founded in 2001. It is held at a tribal venue every spring. The NALS was first established by a group of independent scholars committed to creating a place where Native voices can be heard. The current Director is Gwen N. Westerman of Minnesota State University, Mankato.\n\nSince 2001, the NALS has brought in some voices and groups in Native America, specializing in areas such as: art, prose, poetry, film, religion, history, politics, music, philosophy, and science. Past guest speakers include:\n\n"}
{"id": "37747762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37747762", "title": "Pandaemonium (history book)", "text": "Pandaemonium (history book)\n\nPandaemonium, 1660-1886: The Coming of the Machine as Seen by Contemporary Observers is a book of contemporary observations of the coming, development, and impact of the Industrial Revolution in the United Kingdom, collected by documentary film-maker Humphrey Jennings and published posthumously in 1985 by Icon Books having received funding for the project from the Elephant Trust. The book takes its title from the first excerpt within it, the section in Book I of \"Paradise Lost\" (1660) in which John Milton describes the building of Pandaemonium, the capital city of Hell. \n\nJennings collated the excerpts between 1937 and his early death in 1950. Jennings' daughter, Mary-Louise Jennings, and a co-founder with Jennings of Mass Observation, Charles Madge, brought his work to publication in 1985. The first edition was published by André Deutsch Ltd, where Diana Athill was its editor. Reviewing \"Pandaemonium\", the \"New York Times\" said, \"Many of the early milestones of industrialization and its effects have become textbook cliches, and a routine anthology devoted to the subject would hardly call for special attention. But \"Pandaemonium\" is far from routine; it reflects the deeply felt preoccupations of an unusual man\", and said that through the texts selected, the book \"conveys the heroic promise of industrialism as well as the devastation, the humanistic spirit of science as well the dehumanizing dangers\".\n\nWriter Frank Cottrell Boyce, a longtime fan of the book, said of it \"When I first held this book in my hand, I swear I could feel it shaking with its own internal energy.\" Director Danny Boyle was working on a West End theatrical production of Mary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\", which opened in February 2011, and Cottrell Boyce had given Boyle a copy of \"Pandaemonium\" to help inform the Industrial Revolution sequence in the play. At the same time, Boyle and Cottrell Boyce were developing the opening ceremony for the 2012 Summer Olympics, with Boyle as its artistic director and Cottrell Boyce as the writer. Cottrell Boyce commented \"Danny had a very clear idea that in the first 15 minutes [of the ceremony] you had to have a great, startling image that could go around the world. It had to climax with something that made people go, Oh my God!\", and Boyle decided that \"the journey from the pastoral to the industrial, ending with the forging of the Olympic rings\" was that image. Boyle made \"Pandaemonium\" required reading for his opening ceremony team. The resulting section of the ceremony was named \"Pandemonium\", in acknowledgement of both Milton and Jennings' works.\n\nFollowing an attempt to get the out-of-print 1985 edition published as an e-book, a new condensed edition of the book was published in October 2012, with a foreword by Frank Cottrell Boyce. It represents about a third of the original edition. Writing of the new edition, Diana Athill observed \"[On its original publication in 1985] it received many perceptive and enthusiastic reviews, but it has taken Boyle to shift it from academic appreciation to the general readership for which it was intended and which it deserves.\"\n"}
{"id": "35076395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35076395", "title": "Pastoral society", "text": "Pastoral society\n\nA pastoral society is a social group of pastoralists, whose way of life is based on pastoralism, and is typically nomadic. Daily life is centered upon the tending of herds or flocks.\n\nThere is not an explicit form of social organization associated with pastoralism. Pastoral societies are often organized in tribes, with the ‘household,' often incorporating the extended family, as a basic unit for organization of labor and expenses Lineages are often the root for property rights. Mobility allows groups of pastoralists to leave and regroup as resources permit, or as sought after with changes in social relations.\n\nSometimes pastoralists move their herds across international borders in search of new grazing or for trade. This cross-border activity can occasionally lead to tensions with national governments as this activity is often informal and beyond their control and regulation. In East Africa, for example, over 95% of cross-border trade is through unofficial channels and the unofficial trade of live cattle, camels, sheep and goats from Ethiopia sold to Somalia, Kenya and Djibouti generates an estimated total value of between US$250 and US$300 million annually (100 times more than the official figure). This trade helps lower food prices, increase food security, relieve border tensions and promote regional integration. However, there are also risks as the unregulated and undocumented nature of this trade runs risks, such as allow disease to spread more easily across national borders. Furthermore, governments are unhappy with lost tax revenue and foreign exchange revenues.\n\nThere have been initiatives seeking to promote cross-border trade and also document it, in order to both stimulate regional growth and food security, but also allow the effective vaccination of livestock. Initiatives include Regional Resilience Enhancement Against Drought (RREAD), the Enhanced Livelihoods in Mandera Triangle/Enhanced Livelihoods in Southern Ethiopia (ELMT/ELSE) as part of the Regional Enhanced Livelihoods in Pastoral Areas (RELPA) programme in East Africa, and the Regional Livelihoods Advocacy Project (REGLAP) funded by the European Commission Humanitarian Aid Office (ECHAO).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOne of the consequences of the break-up of the Soviet Union and the subsequent political independence and economic collapse of its Central Asian republics is the resurgence of pastoral nomadism. Taking the Kyrgyz people as a representative example, nomadism was the centre of their economy prior to Russian colonization at the turn of the C19/C20, when they were settled into agricultural villages. The population became increasingly urbanized after World War II, but some people continued to take their herds of horses and cows to the high pasture (\"jailoo\") every summer. Since the 1990s, as the cash economy shrank, unemployed relatives were absorbed back on the family farm, and the importance of this form of nomadism has increased. The symbols of nomadism, specifically the crown of the grey felt tent known as the yurt, appears on the national flag, emphasizing the centrality of their nomadic history and past in the creation of the modern nation of Kyrgyzstan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1789281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1789281", "title": "Peckerwood", "text": "Peckerwood\n\nPeckerwood is a term used in the Southern United States for a woodpecker which is also used as a derogatory term for white people, especially poor rural whites. Originally an ethnic slur, the term has been embraced by a subculture related to prison gangs and outlaw motorcycle clubs. The term originates in Jive and was in use as an inversion of \"woodpecker\" by the 1830s, with the sense referring to white people documented from the 1850s. African-American folklore in the 1920s contrasted the white \"peckerwood\" bird with the African-American blackbird.\n\nUse of the term, an inversion of woodpecker, dates to the early 19th century. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" traces the earliest printed use to an Alabama newspaper in 1835. \"Peckerwood\" was in use in reference to white people by 1859; it often suggested a white person who was rustic or poor. The shortened form \"peck\" was in use in the same sense in the 1920s. In African-American folklore during the 1920s, the woodpecker symbolically represented white people, in contrast to the blackbird that represented African-Americans.\n\nHistorically, the term \"peckerwood\" was commonly applied to white prisoners in general. The cemetery at Leavenworth Penitentiary, officially known as Mount Hope, is informally known as \"Peckerwood Hill\" by prisoners and guards. In the later half of the 20th century the term narrowed to apply to a white subculture associated with street gangs and prison gangs, such as the Aryan Brotherhood. This subculture is also known as PW, P-Dub, or collectively as \"the Woodpile\". Men in this group are called \"peckerwoods\" and women \"featherwoods\". The woodpecker is often used as a general symbol for the group, such as in prison tattoos. It is usually drawn with a long beak, sometimes drawn to resemble Woody Woodpecker or Mr. Horsepower. \n\nMuch of the peckerwood prison subculture had its beginnings in the desegregation of United States prisons. Aryan Brotherhood had its beginnings in the San Quentin State Prison in 1964 as a response to the newly formed black prison gang Black Guerilla Family. The San Quentin State Aryan Brotherhood uses the gang Family Affiliated Irish Mafia (FAIM) for its street operated activity. The Aryan Brotherhood of Texas was formed in the 80s after the dismantling of the \"building tender\" system in which groups were segregated. ABT originally formed as a hybrid of the two gangs Aryan Society and Aryan Brothers. In 1985, the Aryan Circle formed out of peckerwoods who didn't join the newly formed Aryan Brotherhood of Texas. Aryan Circle members believed ABT didn't truly stand for white supremacy. Fronted by Mark \"Cowboy\" Gaspard, the group was originally called Aryan Christians but changed its name due to members' varying beliefs. A group known as the \"International Peckerwood Syndicate\" has been listed by in the Oregon Department of Justice as operating in Oregon prisons. According to the ADL, the group, also known as the \"Insane Peckerwood Syndicate\", formed in 2005 and also has a presence in Washington State. Other prison gangs using the term \"peckerwood\" as part of their name have been documented in Connecticut, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico.\n\nThe peckerwood subculture has established street gangs that mix elements from white power skinhead culture and conventional street gang activity, such as illegal drugs. These \"Peckerwood\" street gangs generally form in lower-income white neighborhoods. These gangs are the manifestation of a modern \"white power\" subculture that combines the elements of California Latino culture, extreme sports and cannabis subculture. Stylistically these gangs combine elements of Latino gang culture (Pendleton flannel and baggy pants) and skinhead culture (Doc Marten boots, bomber jackets, and shaved heads). As well, Peckerwood gang members identify with the color white and are known for wearing white caps and handkerchiefs. The most common gang sign for Peckerwoods is forming the thumb, index finger and middle finger of the right hand to form the letter \"P,\" and the four fingers of the left to form the letter \"W\". Many of these Peckerwood gangs in California are subservient to the authority of Nazi Lowriders, which includes the punk gangs Vicious Circle and La Mirada Punks, as well as Insane White Boys, Independent Skins, Orange County Skins, and a rigid alliance with Southern California Skinhead Alliance (SoCal Skins). Leading the alliance with Nazi Lowriders, the Peckerwood gang Public Enemy No. 1 (PEN1) was established in Long Beach, California during the late 80's, and known for recruiting middle-class \"latchkey kids\" within the Southern California punk scene. PEN1 also known by its derivative Peni Death Squad, gained establishment as a Peckerwood gang in the late 90s in Orange County, being recruited by the Nazi Lowriders. Members of PEN1 also established a regional chapter of the straight edge street gang FSU (Fuck Shit Ups) in Huntington Beach as well. In 1993, the gang Insane White Boys (IWB) was incepted in Orange County and came into prominence being recruited by the Nazi Lowriders as well. The smaller gangs such as Public Enemy No. 1 and Insane White Boys are considered \"kids\" within the Peckerwood gang world, where as Nazi Lowrider groups are led by \"seniors\" who induct \"kids\" into membership. A kid can become a \"junior\", and a junior can become a senior if elected by three other seniors. Within the U.S. court system, membership within a Peckerwood group has not always been accepted as indicating the existence of a larger Peckerwood gang. Peckerwood groups tend to lack a constitution, and to be more loosely organized than formal gangs. The Smalltown Peckerwoods, a gang of about a hundred members on the U.S. West Coast, was not ruled to be part of a larger Peckerwood organization in the 2008 \"People v. Williams\" case, as the main commonalities were ideology and the name, rather than organizational. is also the name of a Santee, California-based outlaw motorcycle club formed in 1987. According to local police, the club's patches and clothing include Nazi imagery, and members have been associated with hate-crimes, although the club has denied that it is racist.\n\nOn May 4, 2013, Charles Gaskin, who was a member of the gang according to his probation report, was sentenced for 26 years to life for the murder of registered sex offender Neil Lee Hayes. According to the report, Gaskin was required to physically harm a white person with a history of child molestation under \"peckerwood law\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23745", "title": "Pokémon", "text": "Pokémon\n\n, also known as in Japan, is a media franchise managed by The Pokémon Company, a Japanese consortium between Nintendo, Game Freak, and Creatures. The franchise copyright is shared by all three companies, but Nintendo is the sole owner of the trademark. The franchise was created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1995, and is centered on fictional creatures called \"Pokémon\", which humans, known as Pokémon Trainers, catch and train to battle each other for sport. The English slogan for the franchise is \"Gotta Catch 'Em All\". Works within the franchise are set in the Pokémon universe.\n\nThe franchise began as \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Green\" (released outside of Japan as \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\"), a pair of video games for the original Game Boy that were developed by Game Freak and published by Nintendo in February 1996. \"Pokémon\" has since gone on to become the highest-grossing media franchise of all time, with over in revenue up until March 2017. The original video game series is the second best-selling video game franchise (behind Nintendo's \"Mario\" franchise) with more than 300million copies sold and over 800million mobile downloads. In addition, the \"Pokémon\" franchise includes the world's top-selling toy brand, the top-selling trading card game with over 25.7billion cards sold, an anime television series that has become the most successful video game adaptation with over 20 seasons and 1,000 episodes in 124 countries, as well as an anime film series, a , books, manga comics, music, and merchandise. The franchise is also represented in other Nintendo media, such as the \"Super Smash Bros.\" series.\n\nIn November 2005, 4Kids Entertainment, which had managed the non-game related licensing of \"Pokémon\", announced that it had agreed not to renew the \"Pokémon\" representation agreement. The Pokémon Company International oversees all \"Pokémon\" licensing outside Asia. The franchise celebrated in 2006. In 2016, The Pokémon Company celebrated \"Pokémon\"s 20th anniversary by airing an ad during Super Bowl 50 in January, issuing re-releases of \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Blue\" and the 1998 Game Boy game \"Pokémon Yellow\" as downloads for the Nintendo 3DS in February, and redesigning the way the games are played. The mobile augmented reality game \"Pokémon Go\" was released in July. The latest games in the main series, , were released worldwide on the Nintendo Switch on November 16, 2018. A live-action film adaptation based on \"Detective Pikachu\" began production in January 2018, and is set to release in 2019.\n\nThe name \"Pokémon\" is the romanized contraction of the Japanese brand . The term \"Pokémon\", in addition to referring to the \"Pokémon\" franchise itself, also collectively refers to the 809 fictional species that have made appearances in \"Pokémon\" media as of the release of the seventh generation titles \"Pokémon\" is identical in the singular and plural, as is each individual species name; it is grammatically correct to say \"one Pokémon\" and \"many Pokémon\", as well as \"one Pikachu\" and \"many Pikachu\".\n\n\"Pokémon\" executive director Satoshi Tajiri first thought of \"Pokémon\", albeit with a different concept and name, around 1989, when the Game Boy was released. The concept of the Pokémon universe, in both the video games and the general fictional world of \"Pokémon\", stems from the hobby of insect collecting, a popular pastime which Tajiri enjoyed as a child. Players are designated as Pokémon Trainers and have three general goals: to complete the regional Pokédex by collecting all of the available Pokémon species found in the fictional region where a game takes place, to complete the national Pokédex by transferring Pokémon from other regions, and to train a team of powerful Pokémon from those they have caught to compete against teams owned by other Trainers so they may eventually win the Pokémon League and become the regional Champion. These themes of collecting, training, and battling are present in almost every version of the Pokémon franchise, including the video games, the anime and manga series, and the Pokémon Trading Card Game.\n\nIn most incarnations of the Pokémon universe, a Trainer who encounters a wild Pokémon is able to capture that Pokémon by throwing a specially designed, mass-producible spherical tool called a Poké Ball at it. If the Pokémon is unable to escape the confines of the Poké Ball, it is considered to be under the ownership of that Trainer. Afterwards, it will obey whatever commands it receives from its new Trainer, unless the Trainer demonstrates such a lack of experience that the Pokémon would rather act on its own accord. Trainers can send out any of their Pokémon to wage non-lethal battles against other Pokémon; if the opposing Pokémon is wild, the Trainer can capture that Pokémon with a Poké Ball, increasing their collection of creatures. In \"Pokémon Go\", and in \"Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu!\" and \"Let's Go, Eevee!\", wild Pokémon encountered by players can be caught in Poké Balls, but generally cannot be battled. Pokémon already owned by other Trainers cannot be captured, except under special circumstances in certain side games. If a Pokémon fully defeats an opponent in battle so that the opponent is knocked out (\"faints\"), the winning Pokémon gains experience points and may level up. Beginning with \"Pokémon X\" and \"Y\", experience points are also gained from catching Pokémon in Poké Balls. When leveling up, the Pokémon's battling aptitude statistics (\"stats, such as Attack and Speed\") increase. At certain levels, the Pokémon may also learn new moves, which are techniques used in battle. In addition, many species of Pokémon can undergo a form of metamorphosis and transform into a similar but stronger species of Pokémon, a process called evolution.\n\nIn the main series, each game's single-player mode requires the Trainer to raise a team of Pokémon to defeat many non-player character (NPC) Trainers and their Pokémon. Each game lays out a somewhat linear path through a specific region of the \"Pokémon\" world for the Trainer to journey through, completing events and battling opponents along the way (including foiling the plans of an 'evil' team of Pokémon Trainers who serve as antagonists to the player). Excluding \"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" and \"Pokémon Ultra Sun\" and \"Ultra Moon\", the games feature eight powerful Trainers, referred to as Gym Leaders, that the Trainer must defeat in order to progress. As a reward, the Trainer receives a Gym Badge, and once all eight badges are collected, the Trainer is eligible to challenge the region's Pokémon League, where four talented trainers (referred to collectively as the \"Elite Four\") challenge the Trainer to four Pokémon battles in succession. If the trainer can overcome this gauntlet, they must challenge the Regional Champion, the master Trainer who had previously defeated the Elite Four. Any Trainer who wins this last battle becomes the new champion.\n\nAll of the licensed \"Pokémon\" properties overseen by The Pokémon Company International are divided roughly by generation. These generations are roughly chronological divisions by release; every several years, when a sequel to the 1996 role-playing video games \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Green\" is released that features new Pokémon, characters, and gameplay concepts, that sequel is considered the start of a new generation of the franchise. The main \"Pokémon\" video games and their spin-offs, the anime, manga, and trading card game are all updated with the new Pokémon properties each time a new generation begins. Some Pokémon from the newer games appear in anime episodes or films months, or even years, before the game they were programmed for came out. The first generation began in Japan with \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Green\" on the Game Boy. The franchise began the seventh generation on November 18, 2016 with \"Pokémon Sun\" and \"Moon\" on the Nintendo 3DS. The most recent games in the main series, , were released on the Nintendo Switch on November 16, 2018. A follow-up set of core series games will be released in late 2019.\n\n\"Pokémon\", also known as \"Pokémon the Series\", is an anime television series based on the \"Pokémon\" video game series. It was originally broadcast on TV Tokyo in 1997. it has produced and aired over 1,000 episodes, divided into 6 series in Japan and 21 seasons internationally.\n\nThe anime follows the quest of the main character, Ash Ketchum (known as Satoshi in Japan), a Pokémon Master in training, as he and a small group of friends travel around the world of Pokémon along with their Pokémon partners.\n\nVarious children's books, collectively known as \"Pokémon Junior\", are also based on the anime.\n\nIn addition to the TV series, , 21 animated \"Pokémon\" films have been directed by Kunihiko Yuyama and Tetsuo Yajima, and distributed in Japan by Toho since 1998. The pair of films, are considered together as one film. Collectibles, such as promotional trading cards, have been available with some of the films.\n\nA live-action \"Pokémon\" film directed by Rob Letterman, produced by Legendary Entertainment, and distributed in Japan by Toho and internationally by Warner Bros. began filming in January 2018. On August 24, the film's official title was announced as \"\". It is set for release on May 10, 2019.\n\n\"Pokémon\" CDs have been released in North America, some of them in conjunction with the theatrical releases of the first three and the 20th \"Pokémon\" films. These releases were commonplace until late 2001. On March 27, 2007, a tenth anniversary CD was released containing 18 tracks from the English dub; this was the first English-language release in over five years. Soundtracks of the \"Pokémon\" feature films have been released in Japan each year in conjunction with the theatrical releases. In 2017, a soundtrack album featuring music from the North American versions of the 17th through 20th movies was released.\n\n The Pokémon Trading Card Game (TCG) is a collectible card game with a goal similar to a Pokémon battle in the video game series. Players use Pokémon cards, with individual strengths and weaknesses, in an attempt to defeat their opponent by \"knocking out\" their Pokémon cards. The game was published in North America by Wizards of the Coast in 1999. With the release of the Game Boy Advance video games \"Pokémon Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\", The Pokémon Company took back the card game from Wizards of the Coast and started publishing the cards themselves. The Expedition expansion introduced the \"Pokémon-e Trading Card Game\", where the cards (for the most part) were compatible with the Nintendo e-Reader. Nintendo discontinued its production of e-Reader compatible cards with the release of \"FireRed\" and \"LeafGreen\". In 1998, Nintendo released a Game Boy Color version of the trading card game in Japan; \"Pokémon Trading Card Game\" was subsequently released to the US and Europe in 2000. The game included digital versions cards from the original set of cards and the first two expansions (Jungle and Fossil), as well as several cards exclusive to the game. A sequel was released in Japan in 2001.\n\nThere are various Pokémon manga series, four of which were released in English by Viz Media, and seven of them released in English by Chuang Yi. The manga series vary from game-based series to being based on the anime and the Trading Card Game. Original stories have also been published. As there are several series created by different authors, most \"Pokémon\" manga series differ greatly from each other and other media, such as the anime. \"Pokémon Pocket Monsters\" and \"Pokémon Adventures\" are the two manga in production since the first generation.\n\n\nA \"Pokémon\"-styled \"Monopoly\" board game was released in August 2014.\n\n\"Pokémon\" has been criticized by some fundamentalist Christians over perceived occult and violent themes and the concept of \"Pokémon evolution\", which they feel goes against the Biblical creation account in Genesis. Sat2000, a satellite television station based in Vatican City, has countered that the Pokémon Trading Card Game and video games are \"full of inventive imagination\" and have no \"harmful moral side effects\". In the United Kingdom, the \"Christian Power Cards\" game was introduced in 1999 by David Tate who stated, \"Some people aren't happy with Pokémon and want an alternative, others just want Christian games.\" The game was similar to the Pokémon Trading Card Game but used Biblical figures.\n\nIn 1999, Nintendo stopped manufacturing the Japanese version of the \"Koga's Ninja Trick\" trading card because it depicted a manji, a traditionally Buddhist symbol with no negative connotations. The Jewish civil rights group Anti-Defamation League complained because the symbol is the reverse of a swastika, a Nazi symbol. The cards were intended for sale in Japan only, but the popularity of \"Pokémon\" led to import into the United States with approval from Nintendo. The Anti-Defamation League understood that the issue symbol was not intended to offend and acknowledged the sensitivity that Nintendo showed by removing the product.\n\nIn 1999, two nine-year-old boys from Merrick, New York sued Nintendo because they claimed the Pokémon Trading Card Game caused their problematic gambling.\n\nIn 2001, Saudi Arabia banned \"Pokémon\" games and the trading cards, alleging that the franchise promoted Zionism by displaying the Star of David in the trading cards (a six-pointed star is featured in the card game) as well as other religious symbols such as crosses they associated with Christianity and triangles they associated with Freemasonry; the games also involved gambling, which is in violation of Muslim doctrine.\n\n\"Pokémon\" has also been accused of promoting materialism.\n\nIn 2012, PETA criticized the concept of \"Pokémon\" as supporting cruelty to animals. PETA compared the game's concept, of capturing animals and forcing them to fight, to cockfights, dog fighting rings and circuses, events frequently criticized for cruelty to animals. PETA released a game spoofing \"Pokémon\" where the Pokémon battle their trainers to win their freedom. PETA reaffirmed their objections in 2016 with the release of \"Pokémon Go\", promoting the hashtag #GottaFreeThemAll.\n\nOn December 16, 1997, more than 635 Japanese children were admitted to hospitals with epileptic seizures. It was determined the seizures were caused by watching an episode of Pokémon \"Dennō Senshi Porygon\", (most commonly translated \"Electric Soldier Porygon\", season 1, episode 38); as a result, this episode has not been aired since. In this particular episode, there were bright explosions with rapidly alternating blue and red color patterns. It was determined in subsequent research that these strobing light effects cause some individuals to have epileptic seizures, even if the person had no previous history of epilepsy. This incident is a common focus of Pokémon-related parodies in other media, and was lampooned by \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Thirty Minutes over Tokyo\" and the \"South Park\" episode \"Chinpokomon\", among others.\n\nIn March 2000, Morrison Entertainment Group, a toy developer based at Manhattan Beach, California, sued Nintendo over claims that \"Pokémon\" infringed on its own \"Monster in My Pocket\" characters. A judge ruled there was no infringement and Morrison appealed the ruling. On February 4, 2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the decision by the District Court to dismiss the suit.\n\nWithin its first two days of release, \"Pokémon Go\" raised safety concerns among players. Multiple people also suffered minor injuries from falling while playing the game due to being distracted.\n\nMultiple police departments in various countries have issued warnings, some tongue-in-cheek, regarding inattentive driving, trespassing, and being targeted by criminals due to being unaware of one's surroundings. People have suffered various injuries from accidents related to the game, and Bosnian players have been warned to stay out of minefields left over from the 1990s Bosnian War. On July 20, 2016, it was reported that an 18-year-old boy in Chiquimula, Guatemala was shot and killed while playing the game in the late evening hours. This was the first reported death in connection with the app. The boy's 17-year-old cousin, who was accompanying the victim, was shot in the foot. Police speculated that the shooters used the game's GPS capability to find the two.\n\n\"Pokémon\", being a globally popular franchise, has left a significant mark on today's popular culture. The \"Pokémon\" characters have become pop culture icons; examples include two different Pikachu balloons in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, \"Pokémon\"-themed airplanes operated by All Nippon Airways, merchandise items, and a traveling theme park that was in Nagoya, Japan in 2005 and in Taipei in 2006. \"Pokémon\" also appeared on the cover of the U.S. magazine \"Time\" in 1999. The Comedy Central show \"Drawn Together\" has a character named Ling-Ling who is a parody of Pikachu. Several other shows such as \"ReBoot\", \"The Simpsons\", \"South Park\", \"The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy\", \"Robot Chicken\", \"All Grown Up!\", and \"Johnny Test\" have made references and spoofs of \"Pokémon\", among other series. \"Pokémon\" was featured on VH1's \"\". A live action show called \"Pokémon Live!\" toured the United States in late 2000. It was based on the \"Pokémon\" anime. Jim Butcher cites \"Pokémon\" as one of the inspirations for the \"Codex Alera\" series of novels.\n\nIn November 2001, Nintendo opened a store called the Pokémon Center in New York, in Rockefeller Center, modeled after the two other Pokémon Center stores in Tokyo and Osaka and named after a staple of the video game series. Pokémon Centers are fictional buildings where Trainers take their injured Pokémon to be healed after combat. The store sold Pokémon merchandise on a total of two floors, with items ranging from collectible shirts to stuffed Pokémon plushies. The store also featured a Pokémon Distributing Machine in which players would place their game to receive an egg of a Pokémon that was being given out at that time. The store also had tables that were open for players of the Pokémon Trading Card Game to duel each other or an employee. The store was closed and replaced by the Nintendo World Store on May 14, 2005. Three Pokémon Center kiosks were put in malls in Washington, with one in Tacoma and one in Seattle remaining. The Pokémon Center online store was relaunched on August 6, 2014.\nProfessor of Education Joseph Tobin theorizes that the success of the franchise was due to the long list of names that could be learned by children and repeated in their peer groups. Its rich fictional universe provides opportunities for discussion and demonstration of knowledge in front of their peers. For the French versions of \"Pokémon\" media, Nintendo took care to translate the name of the creatures so that they reflected French culture and language. The names of the creatures were linked to its characteristics, which converged with the children's belief that names have symbolic power. Children can pick their favourite Pokémon and affirm their individuality while at the same time affirming their conformance to the values of the group, and they can distinguish themselves from others by asserting what they liked and what they did not like from every chapter. \"Pokémon\" gained popularity because it provides a sense of identity to a wide variety of children, and lost it quickly when many of those children found that the identity groups were too big and searched for identities that would distinguish them into smaller groups.\n\"Pokémon\"s history has been marked at times by rivalry with the \"Digimon\" media franchise that debuted at a similar time. Described as \"the other 'mon'\" by IGN's Juan Castro, \"Digimon\" has not enjoyed \"Pokémon\"s level of international popularity or success, but has maintained a dedicated fanbase. IGN's Lucas M. Thomas stated that \"Pokémon\" is \"Digimon\"s \"constant competition and comparison\", attributing the former's relative success to the simplicity of its evolution mechanic as opposed to Digivolution. The two have been noted for conceptual and stylistic similarities by sources such as GameZone. A debate among fans exists over which of the two franchises came first. In actuality, the first \"Pokémon\" media, \"Pokémon Red\" and \"Green\", were released initially on February 27, 1996; whereas the \"Digimon\" virtual pet was released on June 26, 1997.\n\nWhile \"Pokémon\"s target demographic is children, early purchasers of \"Pokémon Omega Ruby\" and \"Alpha Sapphire\" were in their 20s. Many fans are adults who originally played the games as children and later returned to the series.\n\nBulbapedia, a wiki-based encyclopedia associated with longtime fan site Bulbagarden, is the \"Internet's most detailed Pokémon database project\". Bulbapedia received a mobile makeover with the release of BulbaGo, the app for Bulbapedia. The app's developer, Jonathan Zarra, was the same that created the location based chat app GoChat for \"Pokémon Go\". The Bulbapedia App was so successful that within three days of its release, it was acquired by Bulbapedia and turned into its official app.\n\nA significant community around the \"Pokémon\" video games' metagame has existed for a long time, analyzing the best ways to use each Pokémon to their full potential in competitive battles. The most prolific competitive community is Smogon University, which has created a widely accepted tier-based battle system.\nSmogon is affiliated with an online \"Pokémon\" game called \"Pokémon Showdown\", in which players create a team and battle against other players around the world using the competitive tiers created by Smogon.\n\nIn early 2014, an anonymous video streamer on Twitch launched Twitch Plays \"Pokémon\", an experiment trying to crowdsource playing subsequent \"Pokémon\" games, starting with \"Pokémon Red\".\n\nA challenge called the Nuzlocke Challenge was created in order for older players of the series to enjoy \"Pokémon\" again—but with a twist. The player is only allowed to capture the first Pokémon encountered in each area. If they do not succeed in capturing that Pokémon, there are no second chances. When a Pokémon faints, it is considered \"dead\" and must be released or stored in the PC permanently. If the player faints, the game is considered over, and the player must restart. The original idea consisted of 2 to 3 rules that the community has built upon. There are many fan made \"Pokémon\" games that contain a game mode similar to the Nuzlocke Challenge, such as \"Pokémon Uranium\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11844048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11844048", "title": "Poush Mela", "text": "Poush Mela\n\nPoush Mela () is an annual fair and festival that takes place in Santiniketan, in Birbhum District in the Indian state of West Bengal, marking the harvest season. Commencing on the 7th day of the month of Poush, the fair officially lasts for three days, although vendors may stay until the month-end. From 2017, Mela will last for six days. The key characteristic of this fair include live performances of Bengali folk music, notably baul music.\nDevendranath Tagore with twenty followers accepted the Brahmo creed from Ram Chandra Vidyabagish on 21 December 1843 (7 Poush 1250 according to the Bengali calendar). This was the basis of \"Poush Utsav\" (the Festival of Poush) at Santiniketan\n\nA \"Brahma mandir\" was established at Santiniketan on 21 December 1891 (7 Poush 1298 according to the Bengali calendar). A small fair was organised in 1894 in connection with the establishment anniversary of the \"Brahma mandir\", in the ground opposite the mandir. What started as a small homely Poush Mela now attracts attention of not only the people of Birbhum district but tourists from all around.\n\nIn earlier days the \"mela\" (fair) was held in the ground on the north side of \"Brahma mandir\" (also referred to as glass temple). On that day, a firework display was held in earlier days after evening prayers. As the mela increased in size, it was shifted to the field in Purbapalli.\n\nPoush Utsav is inaugurated on 7 Poush (around 23 December). At dawn, Santiniketan wakes up to the soft music of shehnai. The first to enter the scenario is the Vaitalik group, who go round the ashrama (hermitage) singing songs. It is followed by a prayer-meeting at Chhatimtala. Then the entire congregation moves on to Uttarayan singing songs.\n\nPoush Mela is characterized by the live performances of Bengali folk music, especially the baul music. It includes folk songs, dances and tribal sports. This fair offers a perfect insight of true heritage of the state. The students of Santiniketan present their magnificent performance and make this festival more enjoyable and glamorous. Each day of this festival is filled with different activities. The last day of this fair is devoted to those who are related to Santiniketan.\n\nSome 1,500 stalls take part in the fair. The number of tourists pouring in for the three-day fair is around 10,000. Government statistics put the daily inflow of tourists in to Santiniketan at around 3,500 per day; but during major festival such as Pous Utsav, Basanta Utsav, Rabindra Paksha, and Naba Barsha it goes up to an average 40,000 per day or more. Obviously, many of them do stay back in Santiniketan, which has 85 lodges with accommodation for 1,650. Beside of this, room on rent can be hired for some days.\n\nLocal printed fabrics and handicrafts are available in the stalls erected during the fair.\n\n"}
{"id": "265166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265166", "title": "Project Rastko", "text": "Project Rastko\n\nProject Rastko — Internet Library of Serb Culture () is a non-profit and non-governmental publishing, cultural and educational project dedicated to Serb and Serb-related arts and humanities. It is named after Rastko Nemanjić.\n\nThe project was established in 1997 as a part of a pan-regional Balkans Cultural Network Initiative . Its main activities are:\n\nThe apex of the project is its electronic library with more than half a gigabyte of material, comprising electronic books and articles, photographs and comics. Though most texts are in Serbian language there is a body of material in other languages, again mostly in English and Russian, but also in French, German, Spanish and other languages. \n\nThe library contains material in both the public domain and copyrighted texts published with the authors' permissions, dating from earliest medieval Serb texts to contemporary science fiction. The site of the project also hosts several sites not directly related to the project.\n\nProject Rastko also hosts the European version of Distributed Proofreaders, which intends to supply Project Gutenberg with public domain texts in European languages. Project Rastko is organising a coalition of European e-libraries for the purpose of collecting public domain works, aiming to eventually have a node of Distributed Proofreaders in each European country.\n\nCurrently (2007) the project has following regional centres:\n\n\nEach of them is autonomous, and develops its projects and activities through local academic, cultural, media NGOs and individuals, including strong co-operation with ethnic minorities centres. Future activities of Belgrade centre will include projects about Slovak, Jewish and Roma/Gypsy as well as for 29 other ethnocultural minorities in South-Eastern Europe.\n\n\n\"This article incorporates some copyrighted text from the website of the project that is used with permission.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "17381534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17381534", "title": "Regimental museum", "text": "Regimental museum\n\nIn countries whose armies are organised on a regimental basis, such as the army of the United Kingdom, a regimental museum is a dedicated to the history of a specific army regiment.\n\nIn addition to those listed below, many more units (including Yeomanry, Militia and Volunteer regiments) have museums or exhibition spaces, some open only by appointment; for fuller information see the Ogilby Trust website (below).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38096223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38096223", "title": "Resurrectionists in the United Kingdom", "text": "Resurrectionists in the United Kingdom\n\nResurrectionists were commonly employed by anatomists in the United Kingdom during the 18th and 19th centuries to exhume the bodies of the recently dead. Between 1506 and 1752 only a very few cadavers were available each year for anatomical research. The supply was increased when, in an attempt to intensify the deterrent effect of the death penalty, Parliament passed the By allowing judges to substitute the public display of executed criminals with dissection (a fate generally viewed with horror), the new law significantly increased the number of bodies anatomists could legally access. This proved insufficient to meet the needs of the hospitals and teaching centres that opened during the 18th century. Corpses and their component parts became a commodity, but although the practice of disinterment was hated by the general public, bodies were not legally anyone's property. The resurrectionists therefore operated in a legal grey area.\n\nNevertheless, resurrectionists caught plying their trade ran the risk of physical attack. Measures taken to stop them included the use of increased security at graveyards. Night watches patrolled grave sites, the rich placed their dead in secure coffins, and physical barriers such as mortsafes and heavy stone slabs made extraction of corpses more difficult. Body snatchers were not the only people to come under attack; in the public's view, the 1752 Act made anatomists agents of the law, enforcers of the death penalty. Riots at execution sites, from where anatomists collected legal corpses, were commonplace.\n\nMatters came to a head following the Burke and Hare murders of 1828. Parliament responded by setting up the 1828 Select Committee on anatomy, whose report emphasised the importance of anatomical science and recommended that the bodies of paupers be given over for dissection. In response to the discovery in 1831 of a gang known as the London Burkers, who apparently modelled their activities on those of Burke and Hare, Parliament debated a bill submitted by Henry Warburton, author of the Select Committee's report. Although it did not make body snatching illegal, the resulting Act of Parliament effectively put an end to the work of the resurrectionists by allowing anatomists access to the workhouse dead.\n\nHuman cadavers have been dissected by physicians since at least the 3rd century BC, but throughout history, prevailing religious views on the desecration of corpses often meant that such work was performed in secrecy. The Christian church forbade human dissection until the 14th century, when the first recorded anatomisation of a cadaver took place in Bologna. Until then, anatomical research was limited to the dissection of animals. In Britain, human dissection was proscribed by law until 1506, when King James IV of Scotland gave royal patronage to the Barber-Surgeons of Edinburgh, allowing them to dissect the \"bodies of certain executed criminals\". England followed in 1540, when Henry VIII gave patronage to the Company of Barber-Surgeons, allowing them access to four executed felons each year (Charles II later increased this to six felons each year). Elizabeth I granted the College of Physicians the right to anatomise four felons annually in 1564.\n\nSeveral major hospitals and teaching centres were established in Britain during the 18th century, but with only a very few corpses legally available for dissection, these institutions suffered from severe shortages. Some local authorities had already attempted to alleviate the problem, with limited success; in 1694, Edinburgh allowed anatomists to dissect corpses \"found dead in the streets, and the bodies of such as die violent deaths ... who shall have nobody to own them\". Suicide victims were given over, as were infants who had died while being born and also the unclaimed bodies of abandoned children. But even though they were supported by the common law, anatomists occasionally found it difficult to collect what was granted to them. Fuelled by resentment of how readily the death penalty was used, and imbued with superstitious beliefs, crowds sometimes sought to keep the bodies of executed felons away from the authorities. Riots at execution sites were commonplace; worried about possible disorder, in 1749 the Sheriff of London ignored the surgeons and gave the dead to their relatives.\n\nThese problems, together with a desire to enhance the deterrent effect of the death penalty, resulted in the passage of the Murder Act 1752. It required that \"every murderer shall, after execution, either be dissected or hung in chains\". Dissection was generally viewed as \"a fate worse than death\"; giving judges the ability to substitute gibbeting with dissection was an attempt to invoke that horror. While the Act gave anatomists statutory access to many more cadavers than were previously available, it proved insufficient. Attempting to bolster the supply, some surgeons offered money to pay the prison expenses and funeral clothing costs of condemned prisoners, while bribes were paid to officials present at the gallows, sometimes leading to an unfortunate situation in which corpses not legally given over for dissection were taken anyway.\n\nDocumented cases of grave robbery for medical purposes can be found as far back as 1319. The 15th-century polymath Leonardo da Vinci may have secretly dissected around 30 corpses, although their provenance remains unknown. In Britain, the practice appears to have been common early in the 17th century. For example, William Shakespeare's epitaph reads \"Good friend, for Jesus' sake forbear, To dig the dust enclosed here. Blessed be the man that spares these stones, And cursed be he that moves my bones\" and in 1678, anatomists were suspected of being involved in the disappearance of an executed gypsy's body. Contracts issued in 1721 by the Edinburgh College of Surgeons include a clause directing students not to become involved in exhumation, suggesting, according to historian Ruth Richardson, that students had already done the exact opposite. Pupils accompanied professional body snatchers as observers, and were reported to have obtained and paid for their studies with human corpses, perhaps indicating that their tutors were complicit. The unauthorised removal of bodies from London graveyards became commonplace and by the 1720s, probably as a direct result of the lack of legally available bodies for anatomical research, fresh corpses had likely undergone commodification.\nCorpses and parts thereof were traded like any other merchandise: packed into suitable containers, salted and preserved, stored in cellars and quays and transported in carts, waggons and boats. Encouraged by fierce competition, anatomy schools usually paid more promptly than their peers, who included individual surgeons, artists and others with an interest in human anatomy. As one body snatcher testified, \"a man may make a good living at it, if he is a sober man, and acts with judgement, and supplies the schools\".\nIn London, late 18th-century anatomists may have delegated their grave-robbing almost entirely to body snatchers, or, as they were commonly known, resurrectionists. A fifteen-strong gang of such men, exposed in Lambeth in 1795, supplied \"eight surgeons of public repute, and a man who calls himself an Articulator\". The report into their activities lists a price of two guineas and a crown for a dead body, six shillings for the first foot, and nine pence per inch \"for all it measures more in length\". These prices were by no means fixed; the black market value of corpses varied considerably. Giving evidence to the 1828 Select Committee on Anatomy, the surgeon Astley Cooper testified that in 1828 the price for a corpse was about eight guineas, but also that he had paid anything from two to fourteen guineas previously; others claimed they had paid up to twenty guineas per corpse. Compared to the five shillings an East End silk weaver could earn each week, or the single guinea a manservant to a wealthy household was paid, these were considerable sums of money and body snatching was therefore a highly profitable business. Surgeons at the Royal College in Edinburgh complained that resurrectionists were profiteering, particularly when local shortages forced prices up. One surgeon told the Select Committee that he thought the body snatchers were manipulating the market for their own benefit, though no criticism was made of the \"Anatomy Club\", an attempt by anatomists to control the price of corpses for their benefit.\n\nPrices also varied depending on what type of corpse was for sale. With greater opportunity for the study of musculature, males were preferable to females, while freaks were more highly valued. The body of Charles Byrne, the so-called \"Irish Giant\", fetched about £500 when it was bought by John Hunter. Byrne's skeleton remains on display at the Royal College of Surgeons of England. Children's bodies were also traded, as \"big smalls\", \"smalls\" or foetuses. Parts of corpses, such as a scalp with long hair attached, or good quality teeth, also fetched good prices—not because they held any intrinsic value to the anatomist, but rather because they were used to refurbish the living.\nWith no reliable figures for the number of dissections that took place in 18th-century Britain, the true scale of body snatching can only be estimated. Richardson suggests that nationally, several thousand bodies were robbed each year. The 1828 Select Committee reported that in 1826, 592 bodies were dissected by 701 students. In 1831, only 52 of 1,601 death penalties handed down were enacted, a number far too small to meet demand. Since corpses were not viewed as property and could neither be owned nor stolen, body snatching remained quasi-legal, the crime being committed against the grave rather than the body. On the rare occasions they were caught, resurrectionists might have received a public whipping, or a sentence for crimes against public mores, but generally the practice was treated by the authorities as an open secret and ignored. A notable exception occurred in Great Yarmouth in 1827, with the capture of three resurrectionists. At a time when thieves were regularly transported for theft, two of the body snatchers were discharged and the third, sent to London for trial, was imprisoned for only six months. Resurrectionists were also aided by the corpse's anatomisation; since the process also destroyed the evidence, a successful prosecution was unlikely.\n\nResurrectionists usually found corpses through a network of informers. Sextons, gravediggers, undertakers, local officials; each connived to take a cut of the proceeds. Working mostly in small gangs at night with a \"dark lanthorn\", their \"modus operandi\" was to dig a hole—sometimes using a quieter, wooden spade—down to one end of the coffin. To disguise this activity, the spoil was sometimes thrown onto a piece of canvas at the side of the grave. A sound-deadening sack was placed over the lid, which was then lifted. The weight of soil on the remainder of the lid snapped the wood, enabling the robbers to hoist the body out. The corpse was then stripped of its clothing, tied up, and placed into a sack. The entire process could be completed within 30 minutes. Moving the corpse of a pauper was less troublesome, as their bodies were often kept in mass graves, left open to the environment until filled—which often took weeks.\n\nIf caught in the act, body snatchers could find themselves at the mercy of the local population. A violent confrontation took place in a Dublin churchyard in 1828, when a party of mourners confronted a group of resurrectionists. The would-be body snatchers withdrew, only to return several hours later with more men. The mourners had also added to their number, and both groups had brought firearms. A \"volley of bullets, slugs, and swan-shot from the resurrectionists\" prompted a \"discharge of fire-arms from the defenders\". Close-quarters fighting included the use of pick axes, until the resurrectionists retreated. In the same city, a man caught removing a corpse from a graveyard in Hollywood was shot and killed in 1832. In the same year, three men were apprehended while transporting the bodies of two elderly men, near Deptford in London. As rumours spread that the two corpses were murder victims, a large crowd assembled outside the station house. When the suspects were brought out to be transported to the local magistrates, the approximately 40-strong force of police officers found it difficult to \"prevent their prisoners being sacrificed by the indignant multitude, which was most anxious to inflict such punishment upon them as it thought they deserved.\"\n\nAs many as seven gangs of resurrectionists may have been at work in 1831. The 1828 Select Committee on Anatomy believed that there were about 200 London resurrectionists, most of them working part-time. The London Borough Gang, which operated from about 1802 to 1825, at its peak consisted of at least six men, led first by a former hospital porter named Ben Crouch, and later by a man called Patrick Murphy. Under the protection of Astley Cooper, Crouch's gang supplied some of London's biggest anatomical schools, but relations were not always amicable. In 1816 the gang cut off supplies to the St Thomas Hospital School, demanding an increase of two guineas per corpse. When the school responded by using freelancers, members of the gang burst into the dissecting rooms, threatened the students and attacked the corpses. The police were called, but worried about adverse publicity, the school paid their attackers' bail and opened negotiations. The gang also attempted to put rivals out of business, sometimes by desecrating a graveyard (thereby rendering it unsafe to rob graves from for weeks thereafter) and other times by reporting freelance resurrectionists to the police, recruiting them once freed from prison. Joshua Naples, who wrote \"The Diary of a Resurrectionist\", a list of his activities from 1811–1812, was one such individual. Among entries detailing the graveyards he plundered, the institutions he delivered to, how much he was paid and his drunkenness, Naples diary mentions his gang's inability to work under a full Moon, being unable to sell a body deemed \"putrid\", and leaving a body thought to be infected with smallpox.\n\nViolent mobs were not the only problems body snatchers faced. Naples also wrote of how he met \"patrols\" and how \"dogs flew at us\", references to some of the measures taken to secure graves against his ilk. The aristocracy and very rich placed their dead in triple coffins, vaults and private chapels, sometimes guarded by servants. For the less wealthy, double coffins were available, buried on private land in deep graves. More basic defences included the placing of heavy weights over the coffin, or simply filling the grave with stones rather than soil. Such deterrents were sometimes deployed in vain; at least one London graveyard was owned by an anatomist who, it was reported, \"obtained a famous supply [of cadavers] ... and he could charge pretty handsomely for burying a body there, and afterwards get from his pupils from eight to twelve guineas for taking it up again!\" Ever more elaborate creations included \"The Patent Coffin\", an iron contraption with concealed springs to prevent any levering of its lid. Corpses were sometimes secured inside their caskets by iron straps, while other designs used special screws to reinforce metal bands placed around the coffin. In Scotland, iron cages called mortsafes either encased buried coffins, or were set in a concrete foundation and covered the whole grave. Some covered more than one coffin, while others took the form of iron lattices fixed beneath large stone slabs, buried with the coffin. They may not have been secure enough; as one 20th-century writer observed, an empty coffin found beneath a buried mortsafe in Aberlour had probably been \"opened during the night succeeding the funeral, and carefully closed again, so that the disturbance of the soil had escaped notice or had been attributed to the original burial.\"\n\nOccasionally, resurrectionists paid women to pose as grieving relatives, so that they might claim a body from a workhouse. Some parishes did little to stop this practice, as it reduced their funeral expenditure. Bodies were also taken from dead houses; Astley Cooper's servant was once forced to return three bodies, worth £34 2s, to a dead house in Newington parish. Bribes were also paid, usually to servants of recently deceased employers then lying in state, although this method carried its own risks as corpses were often placed on public display before they were buried. Some were taken from private homes; in 1831 \"The Times\" reported that \"a party of resurrectionists\" burst into a house in Bow Lane and took the body of an elderly woman, who was being waked' by her friends and neighbours\". The thieves apparently \"acted with the most revolting indecency, dragging the corpse in its death clothes after them through the mud in the street\". Bodies were even removed—with no legal authority—from prisons and naval and military hospitals.\n\nWhile some surgeons eschewed human cadavers in favour of artificial facsimiles, plaster casts, wax models and animals, bodies were also taken from hospital burial grounds. Recent excavations at the Royal London Hospital appear to support claims made almost 200 years earlier that the hospital's school was \"entirely supplied by subjects, which have been their own patients\".\n\nThe moving in 1783 of London's executions, from Tyburn to Newgate Prison, reduced the likelihood of public interference and strengthened the authorities' hold over felons. However, society's view of dissection remained unequivocal; most preferred gibbeting to the laying open of a corpse. Martin Gray, sentenced to death in 1721 for returning early from transportation, was \"greatly frighted, least his Body should be cut, and torn, and mangled after Death, and had sent his Wife to his Uncle to obtain some money to prevent it.\" Vincent Davis, convicted in 1725 of murdering his wife, said he would rather be \"hang'd in Chains\" than \"anatomiz'd\", and to that effect had \"sent many Letters to all his former Friends and Acquaintance to form a Company, and prevent the Surgeons in their Designs upon his Body\". There are cases of criminals who survived the short drop, but dissecting the body removed any hope of escape from death's embrace. Anatomists were popularly thought to be interested in dissection only as enactors of the law, a relationship first established by kings James IV and Henry VIII. Thomas Wakley, editor of \"The Lancet\", wrote that this lowered \"the character of the profession in the public mind.\" It was also thought that the anatomists' work made the body's owner unrecognisable in the afterlife. Therefore, while less hated than the resurrectionists they employed, anatomists remained at risk of attack. Relatives of a man executed in 1820 killed one anatomist and shot another in the face, while in 1831, following the discovery of buried human flesh and three dissected bodies, a mob burnt down an anatomy theatre in Aberdeen. The theatre's proprietor, Andrew Moir, escaped through a window, while two of his students were chased through the streets.\n\nSome aspects of the popular view of dissection were exemplified by the final panel of William Hogarth's \"The Four Stages of Cruelty\", a series of engravings that depict a felon's journey to the anatomical theatre. The chief surgeon (John Freke) appears as a magistrate, watching over the examination of the murderer Tom Nero's body by the Company of Surgeons. According to author Fiona Haslam, the scene reflects a popular view that surgeons were \"on the whole, disreputable, insensitive to human suffering and prone to victimis[ing] people in the same way that criminals victimised their prey.\" Another popular belief alluded to by Hogarth was that surgeons were so ignorant of the respect due to their subjects, that they allowed the remains to become offal. In reality, the rough treatment exacted by body snatchers on corpses continued on the premises they delivered to. Joshua Brookes once admitted that he had kicked a corpse in a sack down a flight of stairs, while Robert Christison complained of the \"shocking indecency without any qualifying wit\" demonstrated by a male lecturer who dissected a woman. Pranks were also common; a London student who jokingly dropped an amputated leg down a household chimney, into a housewife's stewpot, caused a riot.\n\nIn March 1828, in Liverpool, three defendants charged with conspiracy and unlawfully procuring and receiving a corpse buried in Warrington were acquitted, while the remaining two were found guilty of possession. The presiding judge's comment, that \"the disinterment of bodies for dissection was an offence liable to punishment\", prompted Parliament to establish the 1828 Select Committee on Anatomy. The committee took evidence from 40 witnesses: 25 members of the medical profession, 12 public servants and 3 resurrectionists, who remained anonymous. Discussed were the importance of anatomy, the supply of subjects for dissection and the relationship between anatomists and resurrectionists. The committee concluded that dissection was essential to the study of human anatomy and recommended that anatomists be allowed to appropriate the bodies of paupers.\n\nThe first bill was presented to Parliament in 1829 by Henry Warburton, author of the Select Committee's report. Following a spirited defence of the poor by peers in the House of Lords, it was withdrawn, but almost two years later Warburton introduced a second bill, shortly after the execution of John Bishop and Thomas Williams. The London Burkers, as the two men were known, were inspired by a series of murders committed by William Burke and William Hare, two Irishmen who sold their victims' bodies to Robert Knox, a Scottish surgeon. Even though Burke and Hare never robbed graves, their case lowered the public's view of resurrectionists from desecraters to potential murderers. The resulting wave of social anxiety helped speed Warburton's bill through Parliament, and despite much public opprobrium, with little Parliamentary opposition the Anatomy Act 1832 became law on 1 August 1832. It abolished that part of the 1752 Act that allowed murderers to be dissected, ending the centuries-old tradition of anatomising felons, although it neither discouraged nor prohibited body snatching, or the sale of corpses (whose legal status remained uncertain). Another clause allowed a person's body to be given up for \"anatomical examination\", provided that the person concerned had not objected. As the poor were often barely literate and therefore unable to leave written directions in the event of their death, this meant that masters of charitable institutions such as workhouses decided who went to the anatomist's table. A stipulation that witnesses could intervene was also abused, as such witnesses might be fellow inmates who were powerless to object, or workhouse staff who stood to gain money through wilful ignorance.\n\nDespite the passage of the Anatomy Act, resurrection remained commonplace, the supply of unclaimed paupers' bodies at first proving inadequate to fulfil the demand. Reports of body snatching persisted for some years; in 1838, Poor Law Commissioners reported on two dead resurrectionists who had contracted an illness from a putrid corpse they had unearthed. By 1844, the trade no longer existed.\n\n\nFootnotes\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "5047204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5047204", "title": "Right to education", "text": "Right to education\n\nThe right to education has been recognized as a human right in a number of international conventions, including the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights which recognizes a right to free, compulsory primary education for all, an obligation to develop secondary education accessible to all, in particular by the progressive introduction of free secondary education, as well as an obligation to develop equitable access to higher education, ideally by the progressive introduction of free higher education. Today, almost 70 million children across the world are prevented from going to school each day. As of 2015, 164 states were parties to the Covenant.\n\nThe right to education also includes a responsibility to provide basic education for individuals who have not completed primary education. In addition to these access to education provisions, the right to education encompasses the obligation to avoid discrimination at all levels of the educational system, to set minimum standards and to improve the quality of education.\n\nThe right to education is reflected in international law in Article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Articles 13 and 14 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Article 26 states:\n\"Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit. Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace. Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children.\"\n\nThe right to education has been reaffirmed in the 1960 UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in Education, the 1981 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, the 2006 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities,g and the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights.\n\nIn Europe, Article 2 of the first Protocol of 20 March 1952 to the European Convention on Human Rights states that the right to education is recognized as a human right and is understood to establish an entitlement to education. According to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the right to education includes the right to free, compulsory primary education for all, an obligation to develop secondary education accessible to all in particular by the progressive introduction of free secondary education, as well as an obligation to develop equitable access to higher education in particular by the progressive introduction of free higher education. The right to education also includes a responsibility to provide basic education for individuals who have not completed primary education. In addition to these access to education provisions, the right to education encompasses also the obligation to eliminate discrimination at all levels of the educational system, to set minimum standards, and to improve quality. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has applied this norm for example in the Belgian linguistic case. Article 10 of the European Social Charter guarantees the right to vocational education.\n\nEducation is formal institutional instructions. Generally, international instruments use the term in this sense and the right to education, as protected by international human rights instruments, refers primarily to education in a narrow sense. The 1960 UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in Education defines education in Article 1(2) as: \"all types and levels of education, (including such) access to education, the standard and quality of education, and the conditions under which it is given.\"\n\nIn a wider sense education may describe \"all activities by which a human group transmits to its descendants a body of knowledge and skills and a moral code which enable the group to subsist\". In this sense education refers to the transmission to a subsequent generation of those skills needed to perform tasks of daily living, and further passing on the social, cultural, spiritual and philosophical values of the particular community. The wider meaning of education has been recognised in Article 1(a) of UNESCO's 1974 \"Recommendation concerning Education for International Understanding, Co-operation and Peace and Education relating to Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms\".\n\"the entire process of social life by means of which individuals and social groups learn to develop consciously within, and for the benefit of, the national and international communities, the whole of their personal capabilities, attitudes, aptitudes and knowledge.\"\nThe European Court of Human Rights has defined education in a narrow sense as \"teaching or instructions... in particular to the transmission of knowledge and to intellectual development\" and in a wider sense as \"the whole process whereby, in any society, adults endeavour to transmit their beliefs, culture and other values to the young.\"\n\nThe fulfilment of the right to education can be assessed using the 4 As framework, which asserts that for education to be a meaningful right it must be available, accessible, acceptable and adaptable. The 4 As framework was developed by the former UN Special Rapporteur on the Right to Education, Katarina Tomasevski, but is not necessarily the standard used in every international human rights instrument and hence not a generic guide to how the right to education is treated under national law.\n\nThe 4 As framework proposes that governments, as the prime duty-bearers, have to respect, protect and fulfil the right to education by making education available, accessible, acceptable and adaptable. The framework also places duties on other stakeholders in the education process: the child, which as the privileged subject of the right to education has the duty to comply with compulsory education requirements, the parents as the ‘first educators’, and professional educators, namely teachers.\n\nThe 4 As have been further elaborated as follows:\n\n\nA number of international NGOs and charities work to realise the right to education using a rights-based approach to development.\n\nIn Europe, before the Enlightenment of the eighteenth and nineteenth century, education was the responsibility of parents and the church. With the French and American Revolution education was established also as a public function. It was thought that the state, by assuming a more active role in the sphere of education, could help to make education available and accessible to all. Education had thus far been primarily available to the upper social classes and public education was perceived as a means of realising the egalitarian ideals underlining both revolutions.\n\nHowever, neither the American Declaration of Independence (1776) nor the French Declaration of the Rights of Man (1789) protected the right to education as the liberal concepts of human rights in the nineteenth century envisaged that parents retained the primary duty for providing education to their children. It was the states obligation to ensure that parents complied with this duty, and many states enacted legislation making school attendance compulsory. Furthermore, child labour laws were enacted to limit the number of hours per day children could be employed, to ensure children would attend school. States also became involved in the legal regulation of curricula and established minimum educational standards.\n\nIn \"On Liberty\" John Stuart Mill wrote that an \"education established and controlled by the State should only exist, if it exists at all, as one among many competing experiments, carried on for the purpose of example and stimulus to keep the others up to a certain standard of excellence.\" Liberal thinkers of the nineteenth century pointed to the dangers to too much state involvement in the sphere of education, but relied on state intervention to reduce the dominance of the church, and to protect the right to education of children against their own parents. In the latter half of the nineteenth century, educational rights were included in domestic bills of rights. The 1849 \"Paulskirchenverfassung\", the constitution of the German Empire, strongly influenced subsequent European constitutions and devoted Article 152 to 158 of its bill of rights to education. The constitution recognised education as a function of the state, independent of the church. Remarkable at the time, the constitution proclaimed the right to free education for the poor, but the constitution did not explicitly require the state to set up educational institutions. Instead the constitution protected the rights of citizens to found and operate schools and to provide home education. The constitution also provided for freedom of science and teaching, and it guaranteed the right of everybody to choose a vocation and train for it.\n\nThe nineteenth century also saw the development of socialist theory, which held that the primary task of the state was to ensure the economic and social well-being of the community through government intervention and regulation. Socialist theory recognised that individuals had claims to basic welfare services against the state and education was viewed as one of these welfare entitlements. This was in contrast to liberal theory at the time, which regarded non-state actors as the prime providers of education. Socialist ideals were enshrined in the 1936 Soviet Constitution, which was the first constitution to recognise the right to education with a corresponding obligation of the state to provide such education. The constitution guaranteed free and compulsory education at all levels, a system of state scholarships and vocational training in state enterprises. Subsequently, the right to education featured strongly in the constitutions of socialist states. As a political goal, right to education was declared in F. D. Roosevelt's 1944 speech on the Second Bill of Rights.\n\nInternational law does not protect the right to pre-primary education and international documents generally omit references to education at this level. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to education, hence the right applies to all individuals, although children are considered as the main beneficiaries.\n\nThe rights to education are separated into three levels: \nBoth secondary and higher education shall be made accessible \"by every appropriate means, and in particular by the progressive introduction of free education\".\n\nThe realisation of the right to education on a national level may be achieved through compulsory education, or more specifically free compulsory primary education, as stated in both the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.\n\nThe rights of all children from early childhood stem from the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The declaration proclaimed in article 1: ‘All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights’. The declaration states that human rights begin at birth and that childhood is a period demanding special care and assistance [art. 25 (2)]. The 1959 Declaration of the Rights of the Child affirmed that: ‘mankind owes to the child the best it has to give’, including education. This was amplified by the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 1966 which states that: ‘education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and the sense of its dignity, and shall strengthen the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. [art. 13 (1)]\n\nThe World Declaration on Education for All (EFA) adopted in 1990 in Jomtien, Thailand, states in article 5 that: ‘Learning begins at birth [...] This calls for early childhood care and initial education.’ A decade later, the Dakar Framework for Action on EFA established six goals, the first of which was: ‘expanding and improving early childhood care and education, especially for the most vulnerable and disadvantaged children.’ Protection of children of all ages from exploitation and actions that would jeopardize their health, education and well-being has also been emphasized by the International Labour Organization in Conventions No. 138 on the Minimum Age of Employment (1973) and No. 182 on the Prohibition and Immediate Action for the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour (1999). The United Nations contributed to such endeavours by the Declaration of the Rights of the Child unanimously adopted by the General Assembly in 1959.\n\nThe privatization of education can have a positive impact for some social groups, in the form of increased availability of learning opportunities, greater parental choice and a wider range of curricula. However, it can also have negative effects resulting from insufficient or inadequate monitoring and regulation by the public authorities (schools without licences, hiring of untrained teachers and absence of quality assurance), with potential risks for social cohesion and solidarity. Of particular concern: \"Marginalised groups fail to enjoy the bulk of positive impacts and also bear the disproportionate burden of the negative impacts of privatisation.\" Furthermore, uncontrolled fees demanded by private providers could undermine universal access to education. More generally, this could have a negative impact on the enjoyment of the right to a good quality education and on the realization of equal educational opportunities.\n\nSupplemental private tutoring, or ‘shadow education’, which represents one specific dimension of the privatization of education, is also growing worldwide. Often a symptom of badly functioning school systems, private tutoring, much like other manifestations of private education, can have both positive and negative effects for learners and their teachers. On one hand, teaching can be tailored to the needs of slower learners and teachers can supplement their school salaries. On the other hand, fees for private tutoring may represent a sizeable share of household income, particularly among the poor, and can therefore create inequalities in learning opportunities. And the fact that some teachers may put more effort into private tutoring and neglect their regular duties can adversely affect the quality of teaching and learning at school. The growth of shadow education, the financial resources mobilized by individuals and families, and the concerns regarding possible teacher misconduct and corruption are leading some ministries of education to attempt to regulate the phenomenon. As well, teachers always forcibly indoctrinate their students in private school settings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4655841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4655841", "title": "Ritual servitude", "text": "Ritual servitude\n\nRitual servitude(trokosi system)\n\nThese shrine slaves serve the priests, elders, and owners of a traditional religious shrine without remuneration and without their consent, although the consent of the family or clan may be involved. Those who practice ritual servitude usually feel that the girl is serving the god or gods of the shrine and is married to the gods of the shrine.\n\nIf a girl runs away or dies, she must be replaced by another girl from the family. Some girls in ritual servitude are the third or fourth girl in their family suffering for the same crime, sometimes for something as minor as the loss of trivial property.\n\nIt is still practiced in the Volta region in Ghana, in spite of being outlawed in 1998, and despite carrying a minimum three-year prison sentence for conviction. Among the Ewes who practice the ritual in Ghana, variations of the practice are also called \"trokosi\", \"fiashidi\", and \"woryokwe\", with \"trokosi\" being the most common of those terms. In Togo and Benin it is called \"voodoosi\" or \"vudusi\". Victims are commonly known in Ghana as fetish slaves because the gods of African Traditional Religion are popularly referred to as fetishes and the priests who serve them as fetish priests.\n\n\"Trokosi\": the general name by which it is called in Ghana by both proponents and opponents of the practice\n\n\"Ritual\" or \"customary servitude\": designations by which it is called in Ghana law forbidding the practice\n\n\"Fiashidi\": another name used by some districts in Ghana\n\n\"Woryokwe\": another name used by some districts in Ghana\n\n\"Vudusi\" (also voodoosi, voudousi, vaudounsi, voudounsi, etc.): the general name by which it is called in French-speaking countries such as Togo and Benin\n\n\"Shrine slavery\": a designation often used by NGOs to describe the practice\n\n\"Fetish slavery\": a popular designation used in Ghana, where \"fetish\" refers to the deity of the shrine\n\n\"Hierodulic slavery\": a designation used by anti-slavery groups meaning sacred or religious slavery\n\nHuman rights organizations and other NGO's commonly use the words \"servitude\", \"slaves\", and \"slavery\" as non-technical, popularly understood terms that describe the reality of this practice. They point out that the practice meets all the commonly accepted definitions of slavery.\nShrine slaves perform services which are not voluntary and are not paid. Their lives are totally controlled by the shrines, who in a sense become their owners.\n\nProponents of the system of ritual servitude by any of its names object to this term, but except for the technical terms \"trokosi\", \"vudusi\", \"fiashidi\", \"woryokoe\", the problem is coming up with a suitable alternative. Sometimes they have compared the trokosi to traditional queen mothers, implying a sense of respect for them, but one representative of an NGO who claims to have interviewed hundreds of participants reports that the participants themselves are offended at being called queens and insist they are/were simply slaves.\n\nJuliana Dogbadzi, who served 17 years as a trokosi, says she was \"slave to a fetish priest\". Cudjoe Adzumah made a study of the practice in the Tongu Districts of Ghana and defined \"trokosi\" as \"slaves of the gods\".\n\nEmmanuel Kwaku Akeampong, a native Ghanaian of Harvard University, says that \"tro\" means a \"god\" and \"kosi\" is used at different times to mean either \"slave\", \"virgin\", or \"wife\". Anita Ababio, a Ghanaian lawyer who has extensively researched the issue, explains that the Adangbe and Ga word, \"woryokwe\" comes from \"won\" meaning cult, and \"yokwe\", meaning \"slave\". Thus, she claims, a \"woryokwe\" is a \"slave of a cult\". Robert Kwame Amen in \"Ghana Studies\" also refers to trokosi as an institution of slavery. Likewise, Stephen Awudi Gadri, President of the Trokosi Abolition Fellowship of Ghana, and also himself from a shrine family, claims that trokosi are \"slaves of the deities of the shrines\". \"Though euphemistically, they are called the 'deity's wives', yet they serve the priests and elders of the shrine and do all the hard chores, as well as becoming sexual partners of the priest,\" Gadri says. He also says, \"the trokosi works for the priest without any form of remuneration whatsoever\", and \"it is a form of slavery\".\nAbabio claims, \"The servile status of the trokosi is seen in the duties they perform in the shrines, for which no payment is made...unfortunately for most trokosi, when they are freed they are still bound by rituals which keep them connected or attached to a shrine for life. Practically it means that these victims of ritual servitude always have the rights of ownership exercised over them.\" She then goes on to quote Article 7 of \"The Convention on Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery\", which defines a slave as \"a person over whom any or all powers attaching to the rights of ownership are exercised\". Angela Dwamena-Aboagye, a Ghanaian lawyer, says ritual servitude is \"slavery, pure and simple. It violates every human right.\"\n\nSome of the traditional priests also admit the trokosi are slaves. For example, Togbe Adzimashi Adukpo, a shrine priest, admitted in an interview with BBC in February 2001, \"Yes, the girls are my slaves. They are the property of my shrine.\"\n\nOn the question of whether trokosi is a form of slavery and whether sexual abuse is involved the answers are polarized into two camps. Some traditionalists defend the system saying that it is simply a cultural practice of certain shrines and as such should be protected. These defenders claim that while instances of sexual abuse may occur, there is no evidence that sexual or physical abuse is an ingrained or systematic part of the practice. According to them, the practice explicitly forbids a Trokosi to engage in sexual activity or contact. The other camp is represented by NGOs working with the trokosi and by former trokosi who have been liberated. These opponents of the practice have recorded testimony of hundreds of former (now liberated) trokosi who say that sexual abuse was a regular part of their time at the shrine, claiming the number of children born to them by the priest and shrine elders is a witness.\n\nAlthough virtually everyone recognizes that the victims themselves have no choice or say in their lot, Stephen Awudi Gadri says that \"both the parents (of the victims) and the girls (that is, the victims) have no choice\".\n\nSimon Abaxe has researched the practice in Ghana. He says that ritual servitude is part of African Traditional Religion in some places, but not a universal practice of that religion. A form of it is also practiced in India and Nepal as part of Hindu religion, and various forms of it were part of ancient religious traditions of devotion to various gods and goddesses. It is distinguished from the Christian monastic tradition at a basic level since ritual servitude is involuntary on the part of the participant, in contrast to Christian monasticism, which is voluntary.\n\nThere are two major reasons for the practice of ritual servitude. Most common is the concept of atonement. A girl is given to the shrine or to the gods as a kind of \"living sacrifice\" to atone for the real or alleged crimes of a family member or ancestor, as discerned by the priest of the shrine. During a process of divination he calls on the gods of the shrine to reveal this information. Girls given to atone for such crimes in a sense are considered a kind of savior, for as long as she remains in the shrine or under its control, the anger of the god is believed to be averted from the rest of the family.\n\nThe second most frequent reason for the practice of ritual servitude is that the girl is given for the continuous repayment of the gods for services believed to have been obtained or favors believed to have been rendered from the shrine. Thus a girl may be given into ritual servitude when someone believes a child has been conceived or a person has been healed, for example, through the intervention of the shrine.\n\nProponents of the practice claim that some participants choose a life of ritual servitude of their own volition, but human rights organizations claim that while this may be theoretically possible, they haven't found one yet.\n\nIn the past, the traditions of the shrines were veiled in secrecy, and people dared not discuss them, fearing the wrath of the gods if they dared to do so. For this reason, the practice was neither widely known nor well understood. In more recent times, since the 1990s at least, abolitionists and human rights advocates have penetrated the veil of secrecy. The issue has been widely discussed, for instance, in the newspapers and on the radio in Ghana.\n\nThe giving of virgin girls to the gods was part of many ancient religions. In West Africa, the practice has gone on for at least several hundred years. Similar practices using similar terminology were found in the royal court of the Kingdom of Dahomey (in what is now Benin) in the 18th and 19th centuries. Wives, slaves, and in fact all persons connected with the royal palace of Dahomey were called \"ahosi\", from \"aho\" meaning \"king\", and \"si\" meaning \"dependent\" or \"subordinate.\" By one estimate there were 5,000 to 7,000 ahosi living in the palace at Abomey, and no men lived there except for a few hundred eunuchs were charged with controlling the women. After sunset no men at all were allowed in the palace except the king, and he was guarded by women guards called Amazons. The king controlled every aspect of the lives and even the deaths of the ahosi. Visitors to old Abomey today are shown a mass grave and told that the king's wives \"volunteered,\" on his death, to be buried alive with him in order to accompany him and serve him in the world to come. One researcher pointed out, \"Of course, one should not make the mistake of ascribing modern democratic meaning to the word \"volunteered\" as if the wives wanted to die or had any choice in the matter. Ahosi who became too powerful or too independently minded were simply sacrificed (literally and physically) in the annual office ceremony lasting several days in which the power of the king was renewed by hundreds of human sacrifices, usually performed by public beheadings.\n\nThe practice was documented by A. B. Ellis who was an eyewitness of the practice in the Dahomey Empire (now Benin) in 1879. According to Ellis, one god called \"Khebioso\" had 1500 wives in Dahomey alone, the women being called \"kosio\". He said they cared for the shrines of the gods, but their main business was religious prostitution. According to Ellis, most of the gods of the Ewe-speaking people at that time had such women who were similarly consecrated to their service and were commonly considered \"wives\" of the gods.\n\nOne might argue that those ahosi were wives of the king and lived in the palace, not wives of the gods living in the shrines. But that distinction is not as clearcut as it might first seem, for the palace was the center of Dahomean religious life, and the place where sacrifices were made and rituals to the ancestors were performed. Over time, then, it was an easy jump from being ahosi living lives totally controlled by the king in the palace where sacrifices were offered and rituals were performed, to being trokosi living lives totally controlled by a priest in a shrine where sacrifices were offered and rituals were performed. It was a very easy transition indeed. Even in the time of the Kingdom of Dahomey, one reads of the vodun or gods successfully demanding that someone become a devotee or vodunsi (wife or follower of the god).\n\nAs people migrated within West Africa, the practice spread. Sandra Greene has noted that in Ghana, the practice dates to at least the late 18th century. At the time the Amlade clan Sui became very powerful, and began to demand female slaves from those who sought its services. The practice called \"replacement\" also began in Ghana at that time. Under this practice, if a shrine slave died or ran away, the family was required to replace her with another girl. At the beginning of the 19th century, Nyigbla became the chief Anlo deity, and its shrines also began to demand slaves for its services. Involuntary slavery, however, was not at that time and in that place common, since Nyigbla also instituted a practice called foasi, whereby two servants were recruited annually on a more-or-less voluntary basis. At that time, the slaves were often married to members of powerful priestly families.\n\nIt is reported by traditionalists that since the mid-18th century the Bremen missionaries decried the practice and purchased freedom for individual trokosi, which were then called \"new made slaves\", converting them to Christianity.\n\nWhen Ghana (then Gold Coast) was under colonial rule, a few citizens complained about the practice, but the colonial masters turned their heads. They derided him as \"the blind man who wants to help others see\". The colonial government did investigate the practice at Atigo shrine near Battor from 1919 to 1924. The investigating District Commissioner, W. Price Jones, called it \"a pernicious habit of handing girls over to the fetish\", but for economic reasons, decided not to interfere. As a result of that inquiry, shrine slaves held at the Atigo shrine were told they could return home if they wished. Soon after, the colonial government ignored another complaint that the shrine was still keeping trokosi. After that, the practice slid back into secrecy and was not brought to the public consciousness again until 1980.\n\nThe practice was drawn into the national spotlight at that time when Mark Wisdom, a Baptist pastor, responded to what he claims was a vision from God, and challenged the system in the national media. Wisdom claimed that as he prayed, he saw a vision of women in bonds, crying out for help. Wisdom claimed to have later discovered these same women on one of his evangelistic missions, held in bondage in a shrine just across the Volta River from his home, but previously unknown to him. He began publicly denouncing the practice, so much so that headlines in Ghana screamed that he was not afraid of the shrine priests. Wisdom wrote a book on the subject, founded FESLIM (Fetish Slaves Liberation Movement), and was instrumental in some of the earliest liberations, but it was his bold public statements reported in the news that pricked the national consciousness.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Ghanaian journalist Vincent Azumah found courage to write publicly about the practice and sparked a nationwide debate. Then the International Federation of Women Laywyers in Ghana (FIDA) organized an investigation into shrine practices and issued a report in 1992. These events took place while Jerry Rawlings still held the presidency of Ghana with an iron fist. Rawlings and his administration were defenders of African Traditional Religion, calling it the \"African Heritage\" and a cause for national pride. One example of this was his granting of free air time to the founder of the Afrikania movement, Okomfo Damuah, at a time when Christian churches were virtually denied access to both radio and TV. Azumah and FIDA's actions were very bold in the light of the political climate of the day.\n\nThe Ghana National Commission on Children brought attention to the issue during the celebration of the Organization of African Unity Day of the African Child on June 16, 1993. In 1994 and 1995 Ghanaian lawyer Anita Heymann Ababio researched the practice in the light of Ghanaian law, and recommendations from this research later became a Law Reform Commission report to the Ghana government in 1995. According to Emmanuel Kweku Akeampong, a Ghanaian professor of history at Harvard University, the practice of trokosi was much in the national attention in 1996 and 1997.\n\nIn 1998 the Law Reform Commission, drawing on the recommendations of Ababio and others, drafted a law specifying \"ritual or customary servitude\" as a crime. The law passed, requiring a mandatory three-year prison term for those found guilty.\n\nIn 1999 Juliana Dogbadzi, a former trokosi, won the Reebok Human Rights Award for her efforts in speaking up on behalf of her fellow trokosi.\n\nAlthough the practice was outlawed in Ghana in 1998, it continued, due to fear and the reluctance of the government to interfere with traditional practices. Some NGOs had already worked to liberate shrines, but after the law did not solve the problem, NGOs began to get even more seriously involved in advocating against the practice and in working for agreements to reduce the practice by liberating individual shrines.\nSome of the organizations that have joined the effort are UNICEF, International Needs Network Ghana, the Swiss \"Sentry Movement\", Trokosi Abolition Fellowship, the Anti-Slavery Society, and Every Child Ministries. Survivors for Change is a group of former trokosi who have banded together to speak up against the practice. Organizations that have been most active in liberating ritual slaves are FESLIM (Fetish Slaves Liberation Movement), founded by Mark Wisdom, International Needs, and Every Child Ministries. Christian NGOs and human rights organizations have been fighting it—working to end the practice and to win liberation for the shrine slaves. They have carried out their activities with strong support from CHRAJ—The Commission on Human Rights and Administrative Justice—and the Ministry of Women's and Children's Affairs. A Court of Women was organized in Accra in 2003 to continue the fight against the practice.\n\nThe word trokosi comes from the Ewe words \"tro\", meaning deity or fetish, and \"kosi\", meaning female slave. The \"tro\" deity is not, according to African traditional religion, the Creator or what might be called the \"High\" or Ultimate God. \"Tro\" refers to what African Traditional Religion calls the \"small gods\" or \"lesser deities\"—spirits of nature, etc. which are venerated in traditional religion. The term trokosi is commonly used in English in Ghana, as a loanword.\n\n\nOpponents of the practice claim that all except those who joined of their own volition are virtually slaves in every normal sense of the word.\n\nNGO's point out that practices in traditional shrines vary, but trokosi are usually denied education, suffer a life of hardship, and are a lonely lot, stigmatized by society.\n\nThe period of servitude varies from a few months to life. In some cases it involves payment of a heavy fine to the shrine, which can require many years of hard labor or even a lifetime of service to pay. In shrines where the period of servitude is limited, after a ritual and sometimes after months or years in the shrine, the Trokosi returns to her family, but her life is still controlled by the shrine for the rest of her life. Supporters of the practice claim that in the vast majority of cases, there is no particular stigma attached to one's status as a former Trokosi shrine participant. NGOs working to rehabilitate former trokosi say that the social stigma is immense and that it is the most enduring and difficult aspect of the practice.\n\nRitual slavery shows a high degree of cohesiveness, but there are many significant differences as it is practiced in various shrines and in various areas. Every Child Ministries, a Christian NGO that has done much research on the topic, lists these as variations that they have observed in their work:\n\nMost frequently those in ritual servitude are young virgin girls at the time of entry into the shrine. Of course, the girls grow up, so where their servitude is long or lifetime, the participants are of all ages.\n\nThere are two basic lengths of service—perpetual or lifetime service and limited service. One traditional priest expressed the view that once a crime had been committed, it had to be atoned for until the end of time. This is the view of lifetime or perpetual service. Shrine slaves serving for a lifetime have no hope of ever getting free unless outsiders intervene on their behalf. In some shrines, in some areas, and for some alleged crimes, the service is limited to a specific number of years. In other cases, a substantial fee is exacted from the shrine slave or her family. The girls work to try to earn that fee, but in reality the fee is so high and their means of paying it so low that there is virtually no hope of ever paying off the debt that has been laid on them.\nSome shrines have taken so many slaves that they cannot contain them all. Some slaves become unattractive or unuseful to the priest. In these cases trokosia may be given what is called \"temporary\" release. This is actually a misnomer, since it is a permanent condition. The temporary part only gives the slave permission to live outside the shrine temporarily. All the important decisions of her life are still controlled by the shrine, she is still at the beck and call of the priest, and she has to serve at the annual festival of the god every year, for which she is required to bring gifts that may take her all year to accumulate.\nOne child of a trokosi on \"temporary release\" said, \"whenever my mother goes fishing or does any work, she must divide it into three, with two parts going to the priest.\"\n\nWhere perpetual or lifetime servitude is practiced, the shrines often, but not always, practice what they call \"replacement.\" when a trokosi or vudusi dies or runs away, she has to be replaced by another virgin from the same family or clan. Some human rights interviewers report that they have interviewed numerous girls who were the third or fourth replacements for their families for a crime that was allegedly committed long ago.\n\nIn most shrines it is considered a duty of the shrine slaves to have obligatory sex with the priest and sometimes the elders. The priest's genital organs have been dedicated to the gods of the shrine, so having sex with him is considered a sacred act - in a sense, copulating with the gods. This is the origin and meaning of the term \"wives of the gods.\" Many trokosi and vudusi have described beatings and other severe punishments imposed on them for refusing sex with the priest. In Ghana, human rights organizations monitoring the practice of \"trokosi\" claim that shrine slaves often end up with an average of four children while in servitude, many of them by the priest or elders of the shrines. Proponents of ritual servitude deny that this is a part of the practice. There seem to be wide differences between practices in different districts, but Rouster claims that the problem of forced sex in many of the shrines is too well documented to be disputed.\nStephen Awudi Gadri, founder of Trokosi Abolition Fellowship, speaks of \"ritual violation after menarche\" (first menses) as the beginning of a life of coerced sex. He refers to the trokosi as \"vestal virgins.\" \n\nTreatment of girls in the shrine varies as to feeding practices, reasons for and severity of punishments, sleeping and living conditions. Severe and widespread problems have been documented in all these areas by human rights organizations. Many of the shrine slaves are required to do heavy physical labor like cultivating fields with a hand hoe. Other common duties are weaving mats, making and selling firewood (with all profits going to the priest or the shrine), fetching wood and water, sweeping the compound and attending the images of the gods.\n\nNGO's and other human rights organizations are fighting the practice. Since the 1990s, these groups have actively sought to liberate girls held in ritual servitude. Liberation has been done on a shrine-by-shrine basis, with NGO's seeking to reach community-wide agreements that all the slaves of a particular shrine will be liberated and the practice of slavery or ritual servitude will be permanently ended in that place. When such an agreement is reached, a public ceremony is held for the signing of the documents and often, liberation certificates for the former slaves. The shrine is compensated for its loss and the former trokosi begin a process of rehabilitation which usually includes learning vocational skills.\n\nThe most active groups in liberating shrine slaves through negotiated community agreements have been FESLIM, Fetish Slaves Liberation Movement, International Needs Network, and Every Child Ministries.\n\nThe first liberation ceremonies were held at Lomo and Me shrines in Volo in October 1996, at three shrines in Dorfor in December 1996, and at Atigo shrine in Battor in January 1997.[54] International Needs Network liberated 400 trokosi from a group of small shrines in November 2000, and 126 at Adidome in November 2001. Every Child Ministries cooperated with International Needs Network to liberate 465 trokosi from three shrines of the Agave area in January 2003 and with Fetish Slaves Liberation Movement to liberate 94 shrine slaves from Aklidokpo shrine near Adidome in January 2004. They continued the effort, liberating 120 from Sovigbenor shrine in Aflao in December 2005, and 52 \"yevesi\" or servants of the thunder god from the Kadza Yevesi Shrine at Aflao in March 2010. Shrines of the Anlo clan in Ghana also hold trokosi, but have resisted liberation and defended the practice, defending their practice of trokosi as being more humane than the practices of other districts. Human rights organizations insist that the practice must be totally eradicated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59034292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59034292", "title": "Science tourism", "text": "Science tourism\n\nScience tourism is a travel topic grouping scientific attractions. It covers interests in visiting and exploring scientific landmarks, including museums, laboratories, observatories and universities.\n\nMany of the listed laboratories have ongoing scientific research, and may not be open to the general public, although they may offer occasional special public access opportunities. Observatories are usually open to the public and have tours showcasing their astronomical research.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMany European countries participate on the European Organization for Nuclear Research, which has his laboratories including the famous Large Hadron Collider on the French/Swiss border. Plus the bigger European countries like France, Germany, Italy and UK operate national laboratories. Most laboratories have open days for public visits.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the United States of America overseen by the United States Department of Energy (DOE) the Office of science operates ten national laboratories. In total there are 17 national laboratories funded by the DOE. Most of the sites hold open houses where the public can come in for free and see how American tax dollars are invested in research. This used to include nuclear facilities, but those have been restricted since 9/11.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWhile the headquarters of the European Southern Observatory are in Garching near Munich, Germany the observatories are located in northern Chile.\n\n\n\nThe most prestigious universities generally attract excellent scientists and have fine science programs. University campuses are usually open to the public, though permission from guards is sometimes required, and there may be some café or cafeteria or mensa or restaurant or even a university shop on site. Universities usually offer public lectures about ongoing research. Otherwise, their seminars and buildings are reserved for the students and the working faculty including post-doctoral researchers or professors. On weekends or holidays, many universities require special permits to enter. Universities compete on a worldwide basis; hence, they are not ordered by geographical position or alphabetized. Below is a list of the 20 highest-ranked universities according to 2013/2014 QS world university ranking (of course rankings may differ according to year and specific subject).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22888367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22888367", "title": "Sewing circle", "text": "Sewing circle\n\nThe term sewing circle usually refers to a group of people, usually women, who meet regularly for the purpose of sewing, often for charitable causes while chatting, gossiping, and/or discussing.\n\nSewing circle participants, usually women, typically meet regularly for the purpose of sewing. They often also support charitable causes while chatting, gossiping, and/or discussing.\n\nFor example, in ante-bellum America, local anti-slavery or missionary \"sewing circles were complementary, not competing, organisations that allowed [women] to act on their concern for creating a more just and moral society\". Other examples of sewing circles include the Fragment Society, the Mennonite Sewing Circle, and those organized by RMS \"Titanic\" survivor Emily Goldsmith aboard the rescue ship RMS \"Carpathia\": Goldsmith, \"a talented seamstress, organized sewing circles to make garments out of cloth and blankets for those passengers dressed in nightclothes when they entered the lifeboats.\"\n\nApart from charitable purposes, contemporary sewing circles may be formed into organisations on a national level, such as the Guilds in Australia and America \"for people who regard sewing as a creative and rewarding activity\".\n\nIt has been speculated that the phrase \"chew the rag\", is related to gossiping while working in a sewing circle.\n\nSewing circle is also a phrase used (by Marlene Dietrich, for instance) to describe the underground, closeted lesbian and bisexual film actresses and their relationships in Hollywood, United States, particularly during Hollywood's golden age from the 1910s to the 1950s. This usage was coined by the actress Alla Nazimova.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14632070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14632070", "title": "Sistema Sac Actun", "text": "Sistema Sac Actun\n\nSistema Sac Actun (from Spanish and Yucatec Maya meaning \"White Cave System\") is an underwater cave system situated along the Caribbean coast of the Yucatán Peninsula with passages to the north and west of the village of Tulum. Discovery of a connection to the Sistema Dos Ojos has made it the longest known underwater cave system as of (2018).\n\nThe remains of a mastodon and a human female that might be the oldest evidence of human habitation in this area to date have been found in the cave.\n\nExploration started from \"Gran Cenote\" west of Tulum. The whole of the explored cave system lies within the Municipality of Tulum (state of Quintana Roo).\n\nIn early 2007, the underwater cave Sistema Nohoch Nah Chich was connected into and subsumed into Sac Actun making it the longest surveyed underwater cave system in the world.\n\nSac Actun measured (after connecting \"Sistema Aktun Hu\" with in January 2011) and is as of May 2017 with an explored length of only surpassed by Sistema Ox Bel Ha at . Since early 2007, these two caves frequently exchanged the title of the longest Quintana Roo Speleological Survey underwater cave system in the world. Including connected dry caves makes Sistema Sac Actun with the longest cave in Mexico and the second longest worldwide.\n\nIn 2018, a discovery of link between the Sac Actun system (reported to be 263 km long) and the Dos Ojos system in Tulum, Quintana Roo (84 km long) has been reported. The combined system is reported to be the world's largest underwater cave system known.\n\nIn March 2008, three members of the \"Proyecto Espeleológico de Tulum\" and Global Underwater Explorers dive team, Alex Alvarez, Franco Attolini, and Alberto Nava, explored a section of \"Sistema Aktun Hu\" known as the pit \"Hoyo Negro\". At a depth of the divers located the remains of a mastodon as well as at a human skull that might be the oldest evidence of human habitation in this area to date. Additional bones were located and the skeleton was later identified as that of a teenaged female now referred to as Naia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13783148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13783148", "title": "Smart film", "text": "Smart film\n\nSmart film, also called Switchable film, is a product that is capable of adjusting light transmission between transparent and opaque using AC power. Due to moisture sensitivity, earlier versions of the film were used only to make smart glass by lamination on glass. With continual improvement in moisture resistance, the new (3rd) generation of the film can be directly installed on existing windows with special glue or self-adhesive. It combines many functions, such as light adjustment, UV and infrared blocking, advertising and security.\n\nMost of the film applications are via glass, acrylic or polycarbonate laminates, mainly having to do with the voltage (110VAC) required to operate the film. Companies continue to attempt various installation methods in order to use the film by itself without having to add the lamination cost.\n\nOne of the advantages of smart film is that it eliminates the need for blinds, shades or window treatments.\n\nPolymer Dispersed Liquid Crystals (PDLCs)\n1. Without power the liquid crystal molecules (microdroplets) are disordered. This prevents light from penetrating the film, rendering it opaque.\n\n2. When power is applied to the smart film the liquid crystal molecules are forced into alignment, rendering it transparent.\n\nEnvironmental and energy-saving for green building material. It uses transparent or haze temperature control film, makes the smart film a haze state when the indoor temperature is high, when the light reduces, the smart film is in a translucent state; when the light is weak, the smart film is in a transparent state.\n\nSmart film can be used as a switchable projection screen on a store window for advertising. 3G smart film is good for both front and rear projection and projected images can be viewed from both sides.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNew generations of smart film include low haze and colors that include: milky white, gray, and blue.\n\n"}
{"id": "3702231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3702231", "title": "TEG (board game)", "text": "TEG (board game)\n\nTEG is an Argentine strategy board wargame published in 1976, based on the game \"Risk\". The name is an acronym of \"Plan Táctico y Estratégico de la Guerra\", Spanish for \"Tactics and Strategy for War\".\n\n\"TEG\" follows a gameplay quite similar to the strategy board game \"Risk\", since it also features a board divided in many different regions and sub-regions along with the implementation of dice to decide battle results.\n\nThe goal of the game is to be the first player to fulfill the requisites of an objective, without mattering whether it is the \"common objective\" or the \"secret objective\".\n\nThe Common objective is to conquer 30 countries; this objective is the same for all players.\n\nApart from the \"common objective\", players have a secret objective; unlike the \"common objective\", the secret objective is:\n\n\nThe board is divided into six continents which consist of a certain number of countries each; the total number of countries present in the game board is 50. These countries were randomly selected, and continents are slightly misrepresented.\n\nThe 50 Countries sorted into their respective continents are the following:\n\n\nThe game appeared once in the film \"Kamchatka\". Although the film takes place in 1976 and their protagonists (Ricardo Darín and Cecilia Roth) are shown playing \"TEG\", the game was still not released for public sale.\n\nIt has been also referenced in a diapers TV advertisement, in which -among other criteria- the mother and the father play TEG in order to decide who cleans the baby (\"China ataca Kamchatka\" : \"China attacks Kamchatka\" the woman says).\n\n"}
{"id": "6178766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6178766", "title": "Tape trading", "text": "Tape trading\n\nTape trading is an unofficial method of distribution of musical or video content through the postal system, which was prominent in the 1980s and 1990s. Although most commonly used to distribute and publicize limited-release musical demo tapes in underground musical genres such as punk, hardcore, and extreme metal, the system has also been used to distribute bootleg recordings of live concerts, recordings of radio broadcasts, original radio-style programming by amateur broadcasters, and videotapes of underground films. \n\nThe practice faded in prominence in the 2000s, as the rise of internet technologies such as audio and video streaming, file sharing services and podcasting largely supplanted the need to mail out physical copies of recorded content. However, a smaller scale network of tape traders still exists as a sort of nostalgic hobby among fans of some musical genres.\n\nTape trading was a postal system reliant, penfriend style nature of an underground network that relied heavily on the cooperation of fans of different musical genres worldwide as well as the acts being promoted this way themselves eschewing any copyright in order to further spread their notoriety. Acts that gained a following through this might land a record deal.\n\nThe ad hoc system relied on a system of trust, meaning that tapes were swapped in a kind of honor system; those who did not subscribe to this ethos and received tapes without returning the favor accordingly would become known as 'rip-offs' or 'rip-off traders' and were regarded with scorn. Flyers advertising gigs, recordings and other merchandises for sale were often swapped in conjunction with tape trading. Music that had been licensed to record companies (therefore subject to copyright) and released in the format of Vinyl records, CD and MC (musicassette) was also pirated onto blank compact cassette medium and traded, although this was in infringement of both unofficial 'rules' of the network and actual copyright law itself.\n\nMany traders would, unrequested, fill unused space on the C-60 and C-90 tapes of demos they compiled for fellow traders with local bands in which they were members, or acolytes of. This led to a musical cross-pollination between geographically diverse and disparate areas such as Scandinavia, USA and the UK and their own bands/scenes. One notable example of how initial contact through tape trading lent to this trend is in the case of Righteous Pigs guitarist Mitch Harris who hailed from Las Vegas and Birmingham's Mick Harris, drummer with Napalm Death (not related) who would later collaborate writing and recording music, Mitch Harris would eventually relocate to the UK for this purpose. The very nature of the system ensured that recordings would decrease in sound quality with each trade and would in extreme circumstance become almost unlistenable, although the advent of recordable CDs helped the preservation of sound quality of recordings throughout trades. The popularization of broadband internet and digital music in its various forms has led to music by unsigned acts being swapped electronically and therefore tape trading through the postal system is considered by most to be outdated.\n\nHeavy metal tape trading (notably black metal, death metal, doom metal) through the postal system is still in practice, but mainly as a nostalgic hobby. Most contact is made via email or penfriend-style mail conversation.\n\nTape trading was also in some respects an early precursor of podcasting, as the method could be used to redistribute radio programs to fans outside of a radio station's local broadcast area, or even as the main distribution method of non-broadcast amateur programming. This form of trading was especially, but not exclusively, used as an underground distribution method for content that was politically censored: for instance, the Cassette Education Trust, an anti-apartheid activist organization in South Africa, used tape trading as the \"broadcast\" platform for its political and cultural programming prior to its launch as Bush Radio, the country's first licensed community radio station, and the Hungarian punk rock band CPg used its tape trading network to redistribute anti-Communist political commentary from Radio Free Europe alongside its music.\n\nA related phenomenon of videotape trading also existed, to redistribute underground films in specialty genres such as cult films, foreign films or pornography.\n"}
{"id": "10354764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10354764", "title": "The 2010 Imperative", "text": "The 2010 Imperative\n\nThe 2010 Imperative is an initiative issued by Architecture 2030 that requires ecological literacy, largely missing from the curriculum in the United States, to become a key element of design education by 2010, in order to combat global warming and world resource depletion.\n\nThe 2010 Imperative calls for the following:\n\n\"Solutions to design problems must engage the environment in a way that dramatically reduces or eliminates the need for fossil fuel.\"\n\n\nThis may be accomplished by implementing innovative sustainable design strategies, generating on-site renewable power and/or purchasing a maximum of 20% renewable energy and/or certified renewable energy credits (RECs, Green tags).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21979682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21979682", "title": "The Amazing Spiez!", "text": "The Amazing Spiez!\n\nThe Amazing Spiez! () is a French/Canadian animated television series produced by the French company Marathon Media and the Canadian company Image Entertainment Corporation. Originally broadcast on Teletoon. It is a spinoff of \"Totally Spies!\". The show first aired on one of its original channels, TF1, on April 1, 2009, although it had already begun airing on March 15, 2009 on Disney Channel (Asia). The series was premiered and broadcast originally on Teletoon in Canada. Since September 2010, it premiered on weekdays at 6am and 11:00am. The series premiered internationally on Cartoon Network in the USA on April 26, 2010 at 8:30am (ET). After running 10 episodes the series moved to 5:00pm (ET). For Season 2, premieres were moved to 8:30am. Later, on May 25, 2012, it was announced that \"The Amazing Spiez!\" would premiere its series finale.\n\nThe series was first inspired to make a spy show but for Family and Kids also a series wanted something similar to Totally Spies! So Vincent Chalvon-Demersary and David Michel started the series, and the spiez diceded to relocate to Calgary, Alberta. The series was in production and build by production company Marathon Media and was also co production company Image Entertainment Corporation with in association and aired on TF1 and Teletoon. The Funds were assistance from The Canadian Film or Video Production Tax credit, Quebec Film or Television production tax credit, Telefilm Canada and Bell Fund.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10533451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10533451", "title": "The Butcher Boy (1997 film)", "text": "The Butcher Boy (1997 film)\n\nThe Butcher Boy is a 1997 Irish-American tragicomic drama film adapted to film by Neil Jordan and Patrick McCabe from McCabe's 1992 novel of the same name.\n\nSet in the early 1960s, \"The Butcher Boy\" is about Francie Brady (Eamonn Owens), a 12-year-old boy who retreats into a violent fantasy world to escape the reality of his dysfunctional family; as his circumstances worsen, his sanity deteriorates and he begins acting out, with increasing brutality. The film won the Silver Bear for Best Director at the 48th Berlin International Film Festival in 1998 and a Special Mention for Owens \"astonishing lead\". It also won the European Film Award for Best Cinematographer for Adrian Biddle. \"The Butcher Boy\" is Neil Jordan's tenth feature film and Geffen Pictures' final production.\n\nThe film is set in Ireland in the early 1960s in the small town of Clones. Francie Brady is a 12-year-old boy whose imagination is fuelled by television - aliens, communists, the Atomic Age. When his mother suffers a nervous breakdown and ultimately commits suicide, he is left in the care of his father, an emotionally distant and ill-tempered alcoholic. Francie spends most of his time with his best friend Joe Purcell talking about \"gangsters, cowboys and Indians, comic-book monsters and the early-1960s threat of nuclear annihilation.\" However, when Francie's growing conflict with another boy, Phillip Nugent, and his mother begins to go too far, he ends up at reform school. Here, he is molested by Father Sullivan, and finds solace only in his fantasies about a foul-mouthed Virgin Mary. He returns home to find Joe has outgrown him and befriended Phillip Nugent. Before long, his father has drunk himself to death. Faced with being left completely alone in the world, Francie loses his grip on reality and lashes out with uncontrollable brutality, which shocks his provincial hometown.\n\n\nThis was the final film produced by Geffen Pictures, which distributed its films through Warner Bros. Geffen Pictures would be sold to Universal Studios years later.\n\nThe screen rights to the book were bought by Neil Jordan in 1992 during the filming of \"Interview with the Vampire\". The adaptation is mostly faithful to the novel, but there are some differences, the principal change being the ending. In the book, Francie is not seen to leave prison, and attempts to forge a friendship with an inmate similar to the one he had with Joe. In the film, a much older Francie is released from prison at the end to be brought to a halfway house. He picks a snowdrop, echoing the opening of the film.\n\nCasting the child to play Francie was difficult. With no previous filming experiences, Eamonn Owens and Alan Boyle (who played Francie's best friend, Joe) were found at the local school in Killeshandra in County Cavan where casting assistant Maureen Hughes went to visit her uncle. Owens younger brother Ciaran was also cast. Jordan cast O'Connor because \"she looks like the Virgin Mary.\"\n\nPatrick McCabe's accomplishment with \"The Butcher Boy\" was deemed unattainable in a film. During the screenwriting process, author McCabe wrote two drafts that digressed from the original novel, like \"planets within planets within planets\" according to Neil Jordan, consequently, Jordan wrote the third draft that was more faithful to the novel. Jordan cast McCabe in the role of town drunk Jimmy the Skite.\n\nNeil Jordan captures Francie's schizophrenia by using voice-overs where the adult narrator Francie speaks with the child Francie. Andrew O'Hehir at Salon Entertainment criticizes Jordan and McCabe for an occasional \"flavor of an after-school special purveying didactic lessons about abuse and victimization,\" and losing \"the novel's Beckettian ambiguity.\" However, he argues that Jordan \"brings a tenderness and sweetness\" to the otherwise unforgiving subject matter.\n\nThe reception of the film has been generally good. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes shows a 77% rating based on 61 reviews and an average rating of 7.4/10. Andrew O'Hehir at Salon Entertainment says \"Neil Jordan's sweetly tragicomic movie\" has \"elaborate fantasy sequences [that] feel like irrelevant amusements.\" He also praises the film as \"a compelling exploration of the permeable border between normal childhood and full-on insanity.\"\nJeffrey M. Anderson at Combustible Celluloid calls the film \"a roller-coaster ride for your brain. It's the most alive and deeply-felt movie I've seen in 1998.\" Emanuel Levy at \"Variety\" says it is \"Neil Jordan's most accomplished and brilliant film to date.\"\n\nOwens performance was hailed unanimously; as such, he was awarded a Special Mention at the Berlin Film Festival in 1998.\n\nThe cumulative box office according to \"Variety\" is $1,963,654.\n\n\"The Butcher Boy\" won the following awards:\n\nElliot Goldenthal composed the soundtrack for the film, which was released on CD in 1998. Goldenthal for this score mixes many different music genres and styles, yet this is one of his most melodic scores. The title song is performed by Sinéad O'Connor.\n\nA widescreen, closed-captioned version of the film was released on DVD on 13 February 2007 by Warner Home Video. The disc contains deleted scenes and an audio commentary by Neil Jordan.\n\n"}
{"id": "36215460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36215460", "title": "The Gathering Ireland 2013", "text": "The Gathering Ireland 2013\n\nThe Gathering Ireland 2013, referred to as The Gathering was a tourism-led initiative in Ireland. It aimed to mobilise the Irish diaspora to return to Ireland during 2013 to be part of specially organised local gatherings and events during the year. It was a government supported initiative driven primarily by Fáilte Ireland, the National Tourism Development Authority, and Tourism Ireland. The concept relied on grassroots initiatives of private individuals, and non-governmental organisations. The Gathering was not a single event but provided an umbrella framework for varied activities throughout 2013, from family reunions and clan gatherings to sports fixtures. While the initiative was primarily directed at the Irish diaspora, and those with other links to the country, the organisers hoped the experience for the general tourist would also be enhanced.\n\nIt began on 1 January 2013 and ended on 31 December 2013.\n\nThe concept for The Gathering Ireland 2013 first emerged at the 2009 Global Irish Economic Forum held in Farmleigh, Dublin. The Forum had two broad objectives: to examine ways in which the Republic could develop more strategic relationships with its diaspora; and to provide a platform for those living overseas who claim Irish ancestry to contribute to the Republic’s economic recovery. The Gathering Ireland 2013 was seen as an opportunity to address both of these objectives, the latter achieved through additional overseas visitors and tourism revenue which in turn may stimulate job creation.\n\nThe initiative has been publicly criticised by entrepreneur Michael O'Leary and actor Gabriel Byrne. In a broad criticism of fiscal policy at a Dublin conference, O'Leary referred to the initiative as \"The Grabbing\", though he went on to say “We like, actually, the Gathering. I thought it wasn’t a bad idea. There’s no reason not to welcome everyone back to Ireland\". \nByrne, who previously served as a cultural ambassador for Ireland, said many Irish emigrants in US felt abandoned by the Government and described the initiative as \"a scam\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31342", "title": "The Picture of Dorian Gray", "text": "The Picture of Dorian Gray\n\nThe Picture of Dorian Gray is a Gothic and philosophical novel by Oscar Wilde, first published complete in the July 1890 issue of \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\". Fearing the story was indecent, the magazine's editor without Wilde's knowledge deleted roughly five hundred words before publication. Despite that censorship, \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" offended the moral sensibilities of British book reviewers, some of whom said that Oscar Wilde merited prosecution for violating the laws guarding the public morality. In response, Wilde aggressively defended his novel and art in correspondence with the British press, although he personally made excisions of some of the most controversial material when revising and lengthening the story for book publication the following year.\n\nThe longer and revised version of \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" published in book form in 1891 featured an aphoristic preface—a defence of the artist's rights and of art for art's sake—based in part on his press defences of the novel the previous year. The content, style, and presentation of the preface made it famous in its own right, as a literary and artistic manifesto. In April 1891, the publishing firm of Ward, Lock and Company, who had distributed the shorter, more inflammatory, magazine version in England the previous year, published the revised version of \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\".\n\nThe only novel written by Wilde, \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" exists in several versions: the 1890 magazine edition (in 13 chapters), with important material deleted before publication by the magazine's editor, J. M. Stoddart; the \"uncensored\" version submitted to \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\" for publication (also in 13 chapters), with all of Wilde's original material intact, first published in 2011 by Harvard University Press; and the 1891 book edition (in 20 chapters). As literature of the 19th century, \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" \"pivots on a gothic plot device\" with strong themes interpreted from \"Faust\".\n\nDorian Gray is the subject of a full-length portrait in oil by Basil Hallward, an artist who is impressed and infatuated by Dorian's beauty; he believes that Dorian's beauty is responsible for the new mood in his art as a painter. Through Basil, Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton, and he soon is enthralled by the aristocrat's hedonistic world view: that beauty and sensual fulfilment are the only things worth pursuing in life.\n\nNewly understanding that his beauty will fade, Dorian expresses the desire to sell his soul, to ensure that the picture, rather than he, will age and fade. The wish is granted, and Dorian pursues a libertine life of varied and amoral experiences, while staying young and beautiful; all the while his portrait ages and records every sin.\n\n\"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" begins on a beautiful summer day in Victorian era England, where Lord Henry Wotton, an opinionated man, is observing the sensitive artist Basil Hallward painting the portrait of Dorian Gray, a handsome young man who is Basil's ultimate muse. While sitting for the painting, Dorian listens to Lord Henry espousing his hedonistic world view, and begins to think that beauty is the only aspect of life worth pursuing. This prompts Dorian to wish that the painted image of himself would age instead of himself.\n\nUnder the hedonistic influence of Lord Henry, Dorian fully explores his sensuality. He discovers the actress Sibyl Vane, who performs Shakespeare plays in a dingy, working-class theatre. Dorian approaches and courts her, and soon proposes marriage. The enamoured Sibyl calls him \"Prince Charming\", and swoons with the happiness of being loved, but her protective brother, James, warns that if \"Prince Charming\" harms her, he will murder him.\n\nDorian invites Basil and Lord Henry to see Sibyl perform in \"Romeo and Juliet\". Sibyl, too enamoured with Dorian to act, performs poorly, which makes both Basil and Lord Henry think Dorian has fallen in love with Sibyl because of her beauty instead of her acting talent. Embarrassed, Dorian rejects Sibyl, telling her that acting was her beauty; without that, she no longer interests him. On returning home, Dorian notices that the portrait has changed; his wish has come true, and the man in the portrait bears a subtle sneer of cruelty.\n\nConscience-stricken and lonely, Dorian decides to reconcile with Sibyl, but he is too late, as Lord Henry informs him that Sibyl has killed herself. Dorian then understands that, where his life is headed, lust and beauty shall suffice. Dorian locks the portrait up, and over the following eighteen years, he experiments with every vice, influenced by a morally poisonous French novel that Lord Henry Wotton gave him.\n\nOne night, before leaving for Paris, Basil goes to Dorian's house to ask him about rumours of his self-indulgent sensualism. Dorian does not deny his debauchery, and takes Basil to see the portrait. The portrait has become so hideous that Basil is only able to identify it as his work by the signature he affixes to all his portraits. Basil is horrified, and beseeches Dorian to pray for salvation. In anger, Dorian blames his fate on Basil, and stabs him to death. Dorian then calmly blackmails an old friend, the scientist Alan Campbell, into using his knowledge of chemistry to destroy the body of Basil Hallward. Alan later kills himself over the deed.\n\nTo escape the guilt of his crime, Dorian goes to an opium den, where James Vane is unknowingly present. James had been seeking vengeance upon Dorian ever since Sibyl killed herself, but had no leads to pursue: the only thing he knew about Dorian was the name Sibyl called him, \"Prince Charming\". In the opium den however he hears someone refer to Dorian as \"Prince Charming\", and he accosts Dorian. Dorian deceives James into believing that he is too young to have known Sibyl, who killed herself 18 years earlier, as his face is still that of a young man. James relents and releases Dorian, but is then approached by a woman from the opium den who reproaches James for not killing Dorian. She confirms that the man was Dorian Gray and explains that he has not aged in 18 years. James runs after Dorian, but he has gone.\n\nJames then begins to stalk Dorian, causing Dorian to fear for his life. However, during a shooting party, a hunter accidentally kills James Vane, who was lurking in a thicket. On returning to London, Dorian tells Lord Henry that he will live righteously from now on. His new probity begins with deliberately not breaking the heart of the naïve Hetty Merton, his current romantic interest. Dorian wonders if his new-found goodness has reverted the corruption in the picture, but when he looks he sees only an even uglier image of himself. From that, Dorian understands that his true motives for the self-sacrifice of moral reformation were the vanity and curiosity of his quest for new experiences, along with the desire to restore beauty to the picture.\n\nDeciding that only full confession will absolve him of wrongdoing, Dorian decides to destroy the last vestige of his conscience, and the only piece of evidence remaining of his crimes—the picture. In a rage, he takes the knife with which he murdered Basil Hallward, and stabs the picture. The servants of the house awaken on hearing a cry from the locked room; on the street, passers-by who also heard the cry call the police. On entering the locked room, the servants find an unknown old man, stabbed in the heart, his face and figure withered and decrepit. The servants identify the disfigured corpse by the rings on its fingers which belonged to their master, Dorian Gray. Beside him, the portrait is now restored to its former appearance of beauty.\n\nOscar Wilde said that, in the novel \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1891), three of the characters were reflections of himself:\n\n\nThe main theme in \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1891) is aestheticism and its conceptual relation to living a double life. Throughout the story, the narrative presents aestheticism as an absurd abstraction, which disillusions more than it dignifies the concept of Beauty. Despite Dorian being a hedonist, when Basil accuses him of making a \"by-word\" of the name of Lord Henry's sister, Dorian curtly replies, \"Take care, Basil. You go too far ...\"; thus, in Victorian society, public image and social standing do matter to Dorian. Yet, Wilde highlights the protagonist's hedonism: Dorian enjoyed \"keenly the terrible pleasure of a double life\", by attending a high-society party only twenty-four hours after committing a murder.\n\nMoral duplicity and self-indulgence are evident in Dorian's patronage of London's opium dens. Wilde conflates the images of the upper-class man and lower-class man in Dorian Gray, a gentleman slumming for strong entertainment in the poor parts of London town. Lord Henry philosophically had earlier said to him that: \"Crime belongs exclusively to the lower orders. ... I should fancy that crime was to them what art is to us, simply a method of procuring extraordinary sensations\"—implying that Dorian is two men, a refined aesthete and a coarse criminal. That authorial observation is a thematic link to the double life recounted in \"The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\" (1886), by Robert Louis Stevenson, a novella admired by Oscar Wilde.\n\nIn Book 2 of Plato's \"The Republic\", Glaucon and Adeimantus present the myth of the Ring of Gyges, by means of which Gyges made himself invisible. They then ask Socrates, \"If one came into possession of such a ring, why should he act justly?\" Socrates replies that although no one can see one's body, the soul is disfigured by the evils one commits. The disfigured and corrupted soul (antithesis of the beautiful soul) is imbalanced and disordered, and, in itself, is undesirable, regardless of any advantage derived from acting unjustly. The picture of Dorian Gray is the means by which other people, such as his friend Basil Hallward, may see Dorian's distorted soul.\n\nDorian attends a performance of \"Tannhäuser\", by Richard Wagner, and the narrative identifies him with the protagonist of the opera. Disruptive beauty is the thematic resemblance between the opera and \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\". Based upon a medieval historical figure, Tannhäuser is a singer whose art is so beautiful that Venus becomes enamoured of him. The Roman goddess of love then offers him eternal life with her in the Venusberg, and he accepts; yet, Tannhäuser becomes dissatisfied with life in the Venusberg, and returns to the harsh reality of the mortal world. After participating in a singing contest, Tannhäuser is censured for the sensuality of his art; eventually, he dies searching for repentance and the love of a good woman.\n\nAbout the literary hero, the author Oscar Wilde said, \"in every first novel the hero is the author as Christ or Faust.\" As in the legend of \"Faust\", in \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" a temptation (ageless beauty) is placed before the protagonist, which he indulges. In each story, the protagonist entices a beautiful woman to love him, and then destroys her life. In the preface to the novel (1891), Wilde said that the notion behind the tale is \"old in the history of literature\", but was a thematic subject to which he had \"given a new form\".\n\nUnlike the academic \"Faust\", the gentleman Dorian makes no deal with the Devil, who is represented by the cynical hedonist Lord Henry, who presents the temptation that will corrupt the virtue and innocence that Dorian possesses at the start of the story. Throughout, Lord Henry appears unaware of the effect of his actions upon the young man; and so frivolously advises Dorian, that \"the only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it. Resist it, and your soul grows sick with longing.\" As such, the devilish Lord Henry is \"leading Dorian into an unholy pact, by manipulating his innocence and insecurity.\"\n\nIn the preface to \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1891), Wilde speaks of the sub-human Caliban character from \"The Tempest\". In chapter five, he writes: \"He felt as if he had come to look for Miranda and had been met by Caliban\". When Dorian tells Lord Henry about his new love Sibyl Vane, he mentions the Shakespeare plays in which she has acted, and refers to her by the name of the heroine of each play. Later, Dorian speaks of his life by quoting Hamlet, a privileged character who impels his potential suitor (Ophelia) to suicide, and prompts her brother (Laertes) to swear mortal revenge.\n\nThe anonymous \"poisonous French novel\" that leads Dorian to his fall is a thematic variant of \"À rebours\" (1884), by Joris-Karl Huysmans. In the biography, \"Oscar Wilde\" (1989), the literary critic Richard Ellmann said that: Wilde does not name the book, but at his trial he conceded that it was, or almost [was], Huysmans's \"À rebours\" ... to a correspondent, he wrote that he had played a 'fantastic variation' upon \"À rebours\", and someday must write it down. The references in \"Dorian Gray\" to specific chapters are deliberately inaccurate.\n\nSome commentaters have suggested that \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" was influenced by the British Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli's (anonymously published) first novel \"Vivian Grey\" (1826) as, \"a kind of homage from one outsider to another.\" The name of Dorian Gray's love interest, Sibyl Vane, may be a modified fusion of the title of Disraeli's best known novel (\"Sybil\") and Vivian Grey's love interest Violet Fane, who, like Sibyl Vane, dies tragically. There is also a scene in \"Vivian Grey\" in which the eyes in the portrait of a \"beautiful being\" move when its subject dies.\n\n\"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" originally was a novella submitted to \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\" for serial publication. In 1889, J. M. Stoddart, an editor for Lippincott, was in London to solicit novellas to publish in the magazine. On 30 August 1889, Stoddart dined with Oscar Wilde, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and T. P. Gill at the Langham Hotel, and commissioned novellas from each writer. Conan Doyle promptly submitted \"The Sign of the Four\" (1890) to Stoddart, but Wilde was more dilatory; Conan Doyle's second Sherlock Holmes novel was published in the February 1890 edition of \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\", yet Stoddart did not receive Wilde's manuscript for \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" until 7 April 1890, nine months after having commissioned the novel from him.\nThe literary merits of \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" impressed Stoddart, but, as an editor, he told the publisher, George Lippincott, \"in its present condition there are a number of things an innocent woman would make an exception to. ...\" Among the pre-publication deletions that Stoddart and his editors made to the text of Wilde's original manuscript were: (i) passages alluding to homosexuality and to homosexual desire; (ii) all references to the fictional book title \"Le Secret de Raoul\" and its author, Catulle Sarrazin; and (iii) all \"mistress\" references to Gray's lovers, Sibyl Vane and Hetty Merton.\n\n\"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" was published on 20 June 1890, in the July issue of \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\". British reviewers condemned the novel's immorality, and said condemnation was so controversial that the W H Smith publishing house withdrew every copy of the July 1890 issue of \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\" from its bookstalls in railway stations.\nConsequent to the harsh criticism of the 1890 magazine edition, Wilde ameliorated the homoerotic references, to simplify the moral message of the story. In the magazine edition (1890), Basil tells Lord Henry how he \"worships\" Dorian, and begs him not to \"take away the one person that makes my life absolutely lovely to me.\" In the magazine edition, Basil concentrates upon love, whereas, in the book edition (1891), Basil concentrates upon his art, saying to Lord Henry, \"the one person who gives my art whatever charm it may possess: my life as an artist depends on him.\"\n\nThe magazine edition of \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1890) was expanded from thirteen to twenty chapters; and the magazine edition’s final chapter was divided into two chapters, the nineteenth and twentieth chapters of the book edition of \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1891). Wilde's textual additions were about \"fleshing out of Dorian as a character\" and providing details of his ancestry that made his \"psychological collapse more prolonged and more convincing.\"\n\nThe introduction of the James Vane character to the story develops the socio-economic background of the Sibyl Vane character, thus emphasising Dorian's selfishness and foreshadowing James's accurate perception of the essentially immoral character of Dorian Gray; thus, he correctly deduced Dorian’s dishonourable intent towards Sibyl. The sub-plot about James Vane's dislike of Dorian gives the novel a Victorian tinge of class struggle. With such textual changes, Oscar Wilde meant to diminish the moralistic controversy about the novel \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\".\n\nConsequent to the harsh criticism of the magazine edition of the novel, the textual revisions to \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" included a preface in which Wilde addressed the criticisms and defended the reputation of his novel. To communicate how the novel should be read, in the Preface, Wilde explains the role of the artist in society, the purpose of art, and the value of beauty. It traces Wilde's cultural exposure to Taoism and to the philosophy of Chuang Tsǔ (Zhuang Zhou). Earlier, before writing the preface, Wilde had written a book review of Herbert Giles's translation of the work of Zhuang Zhou. The preface was first published in the 1891 edition of the novel; nonetheless, by June 1891, Wilde was defending \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" against accusations that it was a bad book.\n\nIn the essay \"The Artist as Critic\", Oscar Wilde said that:\n\nIn the 19th century, the critical reception of the novel \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1890) was poor. The book critic of \"The Irish Times\" said, \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" was \"first published to some scandal.\" Such book reviews achieved for the novel a \"certain notoriety for being 'mawkish and nauseous', 'unclean', 'effeminate' and 'contaminating'.\" Such moralistic scandal arose from the novel's homoeroticism, which offended the sensibilities (social, literary, and aesthetic) of Victorian book critics. Yet, most of the criticism was personal, attacking Wilde for being a hedonist with a distorted view of conventional morality of Victorian Britain. In the 30 June 1890 issue of the \"Daily Chronicle\", the book critic said that Wilde's novel contains \"one element ... which will taint every young mind that comes in contact with it.\" In the 5 July 1890 issue of the \"Scots Observer\", a reviewer asked \"Why must Oscar Wilde 'go grubbing in muck-heaps?'\" In response to such criticism, Wilde obscured the homoeroticism of the story and expanded the personal background of the characters.\n\nAfter the initial publication of the magazine edition of \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1890), Wilde expanded the text from 13 to 20 chapters and obscured the homoerotic themes of the story. In the novel version of \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1891), chapters 3, 5, and 15 to 18, inclusive, are new; and chapter 13 of the magazine edition was divided, and became chapters 19 and 20 of the novel edition. In 1895, at his trials, Oscar Wilde said he revised the text of \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" because of letters sent to him by the cultural critic Walter Pater.\n\nPassages revised for the novel\n\nPassages added to the novel\n\nThe uncensored edition\n\nIn 2011, the Belknap Press published \"The Picture of Dorian Gray: An Annotated, Uncensored Edition\". The edition includes text that was deleted by JM Stoddart, Wilde's initial editor, before the story's publication in \"Lippincott's Monthly Magazine\" in 1890.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9304229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9304229", "title": "Uberfic", "text": "Uberfic\n\nUberfic (short for uber fanfic, uberXena) or simply uber, über, or ueber (from , for 'over-' or 'supra-') is a genre of alternate universe fan fiction in which characters or events are portrayed somewhat closely to original canon but usually in a different time period, place, or reality, many times featuring the ancestors, descendants, or reincarnations of canon characters, known as uber-characters. The uber-characters' names are never canon. The term originated in \"\" fandom, coined in 1997 by Kym Taborn, the webmaster of the fansite Whoosh.org. This sort of story was used by the series itself, beginning with the second season episode \"The Xena Scrolls\". A common trend in Xena fanfics was to write Uber stories in which the characters' analogues discover that they are soulmates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5839577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5839577", "title": "United States Department of Veterans Affairs emblems for headstones and markers", "text": "United States Department of Veterans Affairs emblems for headstones and markers\n\nThe United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) maintains many cemeteries specifically devoted to veterans. Most have various rules regarding what must take place in order to be interred there.\n\nThe VA only permits graphics on Government-furnished headstones or markers that are approved emblems of belief, the Civil War Union Shield (including those who served in the U.S. military through the Spanish–American War), the Civil War Confederate Southern Cross of Honor, and the Medal of Honor insignia. Arlington National Cemetery has similar restrictions on headstones, though it is maintained by US Department of the Army.\n\nThe religious symbols are rendered as simple inscriptions without sculptural relief or coloring other than black. The emblem of belief is an optional feature.\n\nGenerally the VA adds a new symbol a few months after receiving a petition from a faith group. However, the Wiccan symbol was only added in 2007 to settle a lawsuit filed on behalf of several families by Americans United for the Separation of Church and State in November 2006. A separate parallel lawsuit was filed on behalf of two Wiccan churches and three families by the American Civil Liberties Union in September 2006, which was resolved by the same settlement.\n\nThe first interfaith headstone, which includes a Wiccan pentacle for Jan Deanna O'Rourke and a Presbyterian Cross for her husband, was installed at Arlington National Cemetery on May 1, 2007, and dedicated on July 4, 2007.\n\nThe following emblems and emblem numbers are publicized as available for Government headstones and markers as of September 2017. A process is in place to consider approving additional religious or belief system emblems requested by the families of individuals eligible for these headstones and markers.\n\nEach emblem is given its official USVA name and designation, with added additional links for related symbolism (*) and for related movements (†).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46325124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46325124", "title": "Uzawa–Lucas model", "text": "Uzawa–Lucas model\n\nThe Uzawa–Lucas model is an economic model of endogenous growth developed by Robert Lucas, Jr., building upon initial contributions by Hirofumi Uzawa. It extends the AK model by a two-sector setup, in which physical and human capital are produced by different technologies. The model explains long-run economic growth as consequence of human capital accumulation.\n\nLucas approaches in a series of papers published in the 1970s were a challenge to the classic principles of Keynesian economics when he suggested an amassed version of microeconomics models and then emphasized on human capital accumulation. In his 1988 dissection, using Ramsey framework and Cobb-Douglas production function Lucas gave more attention to formal education rather than learning-by-doing. While in Solow-Swan model human capital is constant which leads to no transitional dynamics, Lucas measures total capital as the ratio of physical to human capital, not as sum. \n\nIn the original paper, Lucas described the properties of both centralized and decentralized economics evolving with balanced paths. \n\n"}
{"id": "666313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=666313", "title": "Voodoo Science", "text": "Voodoo Science\n\nVoodoo Science: The Road from Foolishness to Fraud is a book published in 2000 by physics professor Robert L. Park,\ncritical of research that falls short of adhering to the scientific method. Other authors have used the term \"voodoo science\", but it remains most closely associated with Park. The book is critical of, among other things, homeopathy, cold fusion and the International Space Station.\n\nPark uses the term \"voodoo science\" (see the quote section below, Page 10) as covering four categories which evolve from self-delusion to fraud:\n\n\nPark criticizes junk science as the creature of \"scientists, many of whom have impressive credentials, who craft arguments deliberately intended to deceive or confuse.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPark also discusses the Daubert standard for excluding junk science from litigation.\n\n\nDrawing on examples used in \"Voodoo Science\", Park outlined seven warning signs that a claim may be pseudoscientific in a 2003 article for \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\":\n\n\nMatt Nisbet in the \"Skeptical Inquirer\" noted that the reaction to \"Voodoo Science\" has been mostly favorable.\n\nBob Goldstein in a book review for \"Nature Cell Biology\" described Park as an equivalent to Richard Dawkins and Stephen Jay Gould, scientific writers who have \"talent for defending a view of the world that is perfectly rational and free of witchcraft and superstition.\"\n\nAmerican chemist Nicholas Turro wrote \"the book is entertaining and provocative reading... Whether or not you agree with Park's take on voodoo science, a message of the book is that if scientists do not take a more significant role in the way that science is disseminated to the public and especially to politicians, voodoo science will continue to survive.\"\n\nThe mathematician Malcolm Sherman in the \"American Scientist\" gave the book a positive review stating \"Park does more than analyze and expose various kinds of bad (\"voodoo\") science. He demonstrates how valid science is distorted or ignored by the media and by those (including scientists) seeking to influence public policy.\" The physicist Kenneth R. Foster also positively reviewed the book concluding \"Park is an articulate and skeptical voice of reason about science.\"\n\nReviewing the book for \"The New York Times\", Ed Regis compared it positively to the 1957 book by Martin Gardner, \"Fads and Fallacies in the Name of Science\", calling \"Voodoo Science\" a \"worthy successor\" and praising it for explaining why various purportedly scientific claims were in fact impossible. Science writer Kendrick Frazier wrote \"Robert Park has brought us a book that has a freshness and originality—and an importance and potential for influence—perhaps not seen since Gardner’s first.\"\n\nRobin McKie for \"The Observer\" described it as \"an admirable analysis: wittily written, vivid and put together without a hint of malice.\"\n\nRachel Hay in a review wrote that Park had \"debunked expertly\" pseudoscience topics such as homeopathy, cold fusion and perpetual motion machines but the book is not easily accessible to students. However, S. Elizabeth Bird an anthropology professor recommended it for \"students who need to establish a grasp of the scientific method.\"\n\nBruce Lewenstein wrote a critical review claiming Park had lumped together pathological science, junk science, pseudoscience and fraud all together as voodoo science but this is problematic as \"each category alone is fraught with definitional, historical, and analytical difficulties.\" Brian Josephson wrote that the book, while giving \"the official story regarding a number of 'mistaken beliefs' \", did not provide \"the additional information that might lead one to conclude that the official view does not tell the whole story.\"\n\n\nSpecific topics\n\n"}
{"id": "28583288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28583288", "title": "WWE Legends action figures (Mattel)", "text": "WWE Legends action figures (Mattel)\n\nAt the Toyfair 2010 in New York City, Mattel revealed the WWE Legends action figure line. The figures are elite style and some also come with accessories. Series 1 arrived at stores in July 2010 with Series 2 right around the corner to be hitting the shelves in August 2010. Series 3, 4, 5 and 6 were announced at the 2010 San Diego ComicCon and followed in tow, being released to stores in September 2010, October 2010, November 2010 and December 2010 respectively.\n\nThere was much hype surrounding the line from collectors, most notably for WWE legend Ricky \"The Dragon\" Steamboat who had not had a WWE (WWF) figure released of himself since his WWF Hasbro figure in 1992.\n\nToys \"R\" Us is currently the exclusive carrier to the WWE Legends 2-Packs Series 1 which were released in late August 2010. There are 6 figures in total with 2 to a box.\n\nSingles\n\nToys \"R\" Us Exclusive 2-packs\n\nSingles\n\nSingles\n\nSingles\n\nSingles\n\nSingles\n\nSingles\n\n2-packs\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5492439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5492439", "title": "Zone 66", "text": "Zone 66\n\nZone 66 is a top down shooting video game released in 1993 for DOS as shareware. The game was created by a North American Demo Scene group called Renaissance, and was published by Epic MegaGames. The group developed a 386 protected-mode (PMODE) extender to enable the game to play on a 386 processor clocked at 16 MHz with full screen updates. This required the PC to be rebooted before and after play, so the game could bypass MS-DOS and boot into its own environment, much like PC booter games of the 1980s.\n\nIn the distant future, an ex-GSA pilot has been tipped by a stranger that his hometown is in danger, but by the time he reaches the city limits, a nuclear bomb destroys the city along with his beloved wife and baby girl. The pilot uses a ship on a landing pad to meet with the stranger at a certain location. When the pilot reaches the location, he finds the stranger is dying but obtains some vital information. The pilot then gets a fighter plane and heads to a group of islands to begin his vigilante revenge.\n\nAs the pilot progresses from nation to nation destroying each base, the plot thickens and he begins to understand who and what he is dealing with and why the terrorism started.\n\nBefore starting the selected mission, the player must choose a type of aircraft. Different planes have different statistics. When the plane has been selected the player can decide what weapons to take to the extent of the payload limit. After the plane inventory has been arranged the mission can begin from a starting supply bay. The player can also return to the supply bay to restock and repair, change aircraft type to use and change weapon types and quantities.\n\nThe player makes use of the loaded weapons to destroy air and land targets. Bombs are launched at the target indicator right in front of the plane. In addition to weapons the player has two types of maneuvers to counter hostilities with ease. The player has infinite chances unless all the supply bays are destroyed. The player also has a radar as a guide. All main ground targets must be destroyed to complete a mission.\n\nThree different soundtracks were available for the game, depending on the user's sound card. The Sound Blaster soundtrack was composed of a mix of FM synthesis sounds and digital samples. This particular method of music creation and playback was unique to the Renaissance demogroup. The AdLib soundtrack consisted solely of FM synthesis sounds, due to most AdLib sound cards being incapable of playing digital audio. Some songs in the AdLib soundtrack were arrangements of those in the Sound Blaster soundtrack, while others are completely different songs altogether.,\n\nA third, separately downloadable soundtrack was available for owners of the Gravis Ultrasound sound card featuring high quality music. Like the AdLib soundtrack, some of the Ultrasound's tracks were completely different songs, whereas others were arrangements of songs found in the AdLib or Sound Blaster versions.\n\nThe reason for the separate \"GUS\" music download was due to the size of the Gravis music: as it was nearly as large as the original game, users who only had a Sound Blaster or AdLib didn't have to waste time downloading music they would never hear. Disc versions of the game included all three, as players did not need to download the game.\n\nZone 66 was released primarily as shareware, on floppy disks, and CD-ROM. The first mission was released and distributed as shareware by GT Software. B&N Software released the first four missions of the game via floppy disk; Missions 1 and 2 were released together on one floppy disk, as were Missions 3 and 4. Epic MegaGames released all of the first four missions on two floppy disks. Finally, all eight missions were released on CD-ROM.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" in 1993 recommended \"Zone 66\" to \"joystick jockeys\", but stated that \"occasional thumb twitchers may find the action a bit much to bear, as this title is quite intense\".\n"}
