{"id": "6117366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6117366", "title": "Abstinence-only sex education", "text": "Abstinence-only sex education\n\nAbstinence-only sex education is a form of sex education that teaches not having sex outside of marriage. It often excludes other types of sexual and reproductive health education, such as birth control and safe sex. Comprehensive sex education, by contrast, covers the use of birth control and sexual abstinence.\n\nEvidence does not support the effectiveness of abstinence-only sex education. It has been found to be ineffective in decreasing HIV risk in the developed world. It does not decrease rates of sexual activity or unplanned pregnancy when compared to comprehensive sex education.\n\nThe topic of abstinence-only education is controversial in the United States, with proponents claiming that comprehensive sex education encourages premarital sexual activity, and critics arguing that abstinence-only education is religiously motivated and that the approach has been proven ineffective and even detrimental to its own aims.\n\nAbstinence education teaches children and adolescents to abstain from sexual activity, and that this is the only certain method of avoiding pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections (STIs). With a heavy focus on the importance of \"family values,\" programs also teach that abstinence until marriage is a standard by which to live.\n\nSystematic reviews of research evaluating abstinence-only sex education have concluded that it is ineffective at preventing unwanted pregnancy or the spread of STIs, among other shortfalls. The American Academy of Pediatrics has recommended against the use of abstinence-only sex education because it has been found to be ineffective, and because the media frequently conveys information about non-abstinence.\n\nA 2015 meta-analysis found that abstinence-focused programs had no effect on the likelihood of contracting STDs.\n\nA Cochrane systematic review suggests that abstinence-only education neither increases nor decreases HIV risk in high-income countries. In the developing world there is a lack of evidence of effect. In 2008, Douglas Kirby reviewed the evidence for the effectiveness of abstinence-only education programs and found little evidence to justify the use of such programs. A 2011 meta-analysis found that it was ineffective at reducing the risk of HIV infection among adolescents. Abstinence education has also been found to include misleading medical information and exclude potentially life-saving information about sexual risk reduction. A 2016 study found \"that state-level abstinence education mandates have no effect on teen birth rates or abortion rates, although we find that state-level policies may affect teen sexually transmitted disease rates in some states.\"\n\nResearch conducted on 48 states of United States showed that \"The level of abstinence education (no provision, covered, promoted, stressed) was positively correlated with both teen pregnancy and teen birth rates. Also, in John S. Santelli's research, the decline of teenage pregnancy rates during 1995–2002 were largely due to improved contraception, and the reduction in pregnancy risk among teenagers at age of 18 or 19 is entirely ascribed to more contraception.\n\nAccording to SIECUS, the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, \"[s]cientific evidence simply does not support an abstinence-only-until-marriage approach.\" A 2010 report by the Guttmacher Institute pointed out that pregnancy rates for teens 15–19 reversed their decline in 2006, near the peak of the Abstinence Only campaign in the United States.\n\nWhile sex education has been linked to a delay in the first time having sex, abstinence-only programs specifically haven't shown this link, and do not seem to influence if or when young people begin having sex.\n\nProponents of abstinence-only sex education argue that this approach is superior to comprehensive sex education because it emphasizes the teaching of morality that limits sex to that within the bounds of marriage, and that sex before marriage and at a young age has heavy physical and emotional costs. In addition, abstinence programs often teach young people that pleasure in sex is most likely to be found within marriage, and therefore, that they should wait to engage in sexual activity until they are married. Abstinence generally places a great emphasis on the importance of the institution of marriage, which some proponents believe allows young people to grow and develop as individuals.\n\nProponents suggest that comprehensive sex education encourages premarital sexual activity among teenagers, which should be discouraged in an era when HIV and other incurable STIs are widespread and when teen pregnancy is an ongoing concern. Many supporters of abstinence-only education do so out of the belief that comprehensive guides to sex or information about contraceptives will ultimately result in teens actively pursuing and engaging in sexual activities, while others oppose the endorsement of contraception for religious reasons. Teenagers are framed as less intelligent and less responsible than adults. They are seen as unable to control themselves due to 'raging hormones'. As a result, a teenager's sexual desire is something that needs to be controlled. Thus, dividing the teens into two separate categories in the minds of adults: \"the innocent and the guilty, the vulnerable and the predatory, the pure and the corrupting.\"\n\nOpponents and critics, which include prominent professional associations in the fields of medicine, public health, adolescent health, and psychology, argue that such programs fail to provide adequate information to protect the health of adolescents. Not only is information inadequate, but opponents believe that young people have the right to receive comprehensive information about how to protect themselves and their sexual health. Accurate information is especially important since, although some supporters may claim that abstinence is an effective method, it has been found that a small percentage of people actually practice it.\n\nSome critics also argue that such programs verge on religious interference in secular education. Opponents of abstinence-only education dispute the claim that comprehensive sex education encourages teens to have premarital sex. The idea that sexual intercourse should only occur within marriage also has serious implications for people for whom marriage is not valued or desired, or is unavailable as an option, particularly LGBT people living in places where same-sex marriage is not legal or socially acceptable. Abstinence-only education is often criticized for being overly heteronormative, idealizing the institution of heterosexual marriage to the denigration of queer relationships. In addition, the heteronormativity of abstinence-only education, as well as the focus on marriage, means that members of the LGBT community will never receive formal information about how to practice safe sex, which is problematic, since they are already at an increased risk for STIs.\n\nAccording to Advocates for Youth, abstinence-only sex education distorts information about contraceptives, including only revealing failure rates associated with their use, and ignoring discussion of their benefits. The language surrounding medicine and health is construed as being both objective and value free. This objectivity is then adopted by conservative politicians and campaigners to assert authority which historically holds its basis in religion.\n\nAbstinence-only education is not supported by the majority of public school teachers, parents, and students. The majority in each of these groups is opposed to abstinence-only curriculum and wants a more comprehensive curriculum. \"Although more than nine in 10 teachers believe that students should be taught about contraception... one in four are instructed not to teach the subject.\" Even when there are no rules limiting sex education to abstinence-only, teachers may continue to teach abstinence-only curriculum because they fear retaliation from the local community. Parents also want their children to be taught about contraception. \"Most parents (65%) believe that sex education should encourage young people to delay sexual activity but also prepare them to use birth control and practice safe sex once they do become sexually active.\" 86% of parents want schools to teach their children how to get STD testing, 77% want their children to learn how to talk to a partner about STDs and birth control, 71% want them to learn how to use condoms, and 68% want them to learn about using other forms of birth control. Students are also opposed to abstinence-only education. \"Approximately half of students in grades 7-12 report needing more information about what to do in the event of rape or sexual assault, how to get tested for HIV and other STDs, and how to talk with a partner about birth control and STDs.\" Clearly, there is a disparity between the type of sex education curriculum teachers, parents, and students want and what government policy determines they receive.\n\nAnother problem for abstinence education is the definition of abstinence. Santelli (2006) states that there is no strict definition of abstinence within the US federal government guidelines for teaching abstinence-only sex education, using a mixture of non-specific phrases, like \"postponing sex\" or \"never had vaginal sex,\" while also using moralistic terms or phrases like \"virgin\", \"chaste\", and \"making a commitment\". This has resulted in sexual activities that are not penile-vaginal, including mutual masturbation, oral sex and anal sex, being considered outside of the scope of abstention from sex, which is termed \"technical virginity.\"\n\nThe U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) is the U.S government's initiative to combat HIV/AIDS globally. PEPFAR works with the governments of 22 countries worldwide to create sustainable programs to prevent HIV and improve the lives of those suffering. PEPFAR provides funding to other countries to help combat HIV/AIDS. It does so with certain guidelines and restrictions on the recipients. PEPFAR promotes an \"ABC\" approach – Abstain, Be faithful, and use Condoms. Funding recipients may give information about condoms to youth over 15 years old, but cannot use the funding to provide condoms or promote usage. In countries receiving funds from PEPFAR, teens under the age of 15 are not allowed to receive information about condoms. The rationale behind this is to not encourage sexual activity despite evidence that condom use does not cause promiscuity.\nPEPFAR was founded in 2003 with the mandate that 33% of its funds provided for prevention be used for abstinence-only education. Since the reauthorization in 2008, this mandate was removed, with a shift toward directives to spend at least 50% on abstinence-only education. The role of partners has been an area of debate surrounding PEPFAR. In 2006, 23% of all the community partners were faith-based and debate exists over whether the U.S. should be allowing grants specifically written for faith-based organizations and prevention. A few countries that have received PEPFAR funding – specifically Mozambique and Rwanda – have expressed distaste for the U.S.' push for faith-based education and abstinence-only funding. Human rights groups have expressed concern that condom availability has decreased since PEPFAR's involvement in the global AIDS crisis.\n\nThe $1.3 billion that the U.S. government spent on programs to promote abstinence in sub-Saharan Africa had no meaningful impact.\n\nIn the U.S., states may apply for federal funding of abstinence-only sex education programs from either Title V, the Adolescent Family Life Act (AFLA), and/or Community-Based Abstinence Education (CBAE). To be eligible for funding, programs must satisfy requirements given under the Social Security Act, which is reproduced here verbatim:\n\n(2) For purposes of this section, the term \"abstinence education\" means an educational or motivational program which—\nFunding, which began in the 1980s, has continued to increase since its inception, though support for the programs and legislation surrounding them has become dependent upon the current administration. For example, George W. Bush administration increased federal funding for abstinence-only programs (the only type funded even under the previous Clinton Administration), while the Obama administration reversed the emphasis and provided more federal dollars for comprehensive sex education. President Donald Trump cut grants to comprehensive sex education and proposed increased funding for abstinence-only education.\n\nThe Christian Right, who initially stood against having school-based sex education programs, began supporting abstinence-only programs due to the focus on marriage. As a driving force behind the abstinence movement, they have focused on getting more funding for these programs and have also been successful in creating more awareness surrounding abstinence through their use of activism. To the New Right, the abstinence-only sex education movement was an opportunity and an avenue to change the current view and status of sexuality in America, aligning it more with their own values, and as a result, creating individuals who remained abstinent until marriage, and thus, citizens who embodied values of self-discipline and morality. In addition, abstinence-only programs utilize ideas of individualism and personal responsibility when educating young people about sex, seeking to create individuals who take responsibility for sexuality and morality. These ideas underlie the basis of conservative ideology, a focus on the individual having a strong place in the beliefs of this group. Thus, it makes sense that support for abstinence-only programs as an effective form of sex education has been linked to conservative individuals.\n\nReligious doctrines take varying stances on contraception and pre-marital sex, some of which are covered by:\n\n\nThe philosophical sex-positive movement cuts across many religions, and rejects the idea that consensual pre-marital sex or contraception are immoral.\n\n"}
{"id": "1648534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1648534", "title": "Ashtray", "text": "Ashtray\n\nAn ashtray is a receptacle for ash from cigarettes and cigars. Ashtrays are typically made of fire retardant material such as glass, heat-resistant plastic, pottery, metal, or stone.\n\nThe most common ashtray design is a shallow cylinder with a flat base, to rest on a table. Other ashtrays, particularly in public places, are wall-mounted, and larger than standard tabletop ashtrays due to the increased use they receive. Many ashtrays have notches at the rim, to hold cigarettes and/or a cigar. Frequently ashtrays were equipped in older large or luxury cars before later being available as dealer-installed accessory items. For example, cars such as the BMW E38 featured ashtrays and lighters installed in both rear doors.\n\nWhile primitive forms of ashtrays existed way before the 19th century, it was during this century that the design, aesthetics and their popularity really took off. As more women began to smoke in the early 1900s, the ashtray inched closer to an art form of sorts. Many women avoided the use of the traditional ashtray as it failed to reflect their feminine values through an activity that was long declared as being exclusive to men. What emerged were detailed, often very fancy ashtrays. These ashtrays depicted pastoral scenes of maidens wandering through vibrantly colored landscapes. Some even featured very luxurious cast-iron models of women in fancy dresses, animals in states of play and the occasional porcelain or ceramic tray highlighting extravagant floral arrangements.\n\nThe word \"ashtray\" in unhyphenated form, rather than \"ash tray\" or \"ash-tray\", did not come into common use until 1926.\n\nAs time went on, and the advent of women smoking both cigars and cigarettes became less of a departure from the norm, ashtrays saw a decline in design aesthetics and more of a shift towards practicality. However, it was not uncommon to see ashtrays featuring pin-up girls in bars during this decade. It was also during this time that another trend in ashtrays began to emerge: the auto-ashtray.\n\nWhile the addition of vehicle ashtrays is now becoming something of the past, there was a time when these not only came standard, they were expected. In the early years, design oversights put these ash receptacles right below the A/C and heating so every time the owner would use either of these, the ash would inadvertently fly in their face or all throughout the car. But as new models of vehicles were constantly introduced to the public, these little foibles gave way and many began to use chrome trays with covers that could be opened and closed at the driver’s discretion. Many luxury cars would make it a more luxurious design and it was not uncommon to see intricately made ashtrays in some of the high-end cars of the day. These ashtrays would feature leather, high-end metals and even specialized engravings by the manufacturer. \n\nBut, just like the stand-alone ashtray, the vehicle ashtray began to lose popularity and in 1994, vehicles began to be produced without them and instead, offer the buyer the option to include one from the dealer.\n\nToday, ashtrays are still used for the odd cigarette smoker, but they have also been making a small revival in popularity from the cigar aficionados of the world. Cigars, unlike cigarettes require a significantly longer time to get through. On average, cigars take about 40 to 60 minutes to complete. Holding a cigar in your hand the entire time can quickly become taxing on your grip, not to mention, you will probably be engaged in some other activities at some point during that hour. To help solve this problem, cigar smokers implement a cigar ashtray to ease the burden of holding the cigar the entire time.\n\nContrary to what some might think, cigar ashtrays are actually quite different than their cigarette ashtray peers. Ashtrays for cigars has to provide sufficient room for the cigar to sit and not be situated at an angle or smudged down into a tight space.\n\n"}
{"id": "41270642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41270642", "title": "Biographical Information Blanks", "text": "Biographical Information Blanks\n\nBiographical Information Blank (BIB) is a type of assessment that uses biodata in employee recruitment to help determine which of several candidates should be hired for a job. Originally companies would take the information from their job applications forms to see what would be useful in predicting the job performance of employees. Over time the amount and type of biographical information collected expanded and was put into the BIB assessments we find today. The modern BIB is a self-report instrument that includes questions about past personal and work experiences, as well as interests, opinions, values and attitudes. Its items are all presented in the multiple choice format. The emphasis is on past behaviors because they are best predictors of future behaviors. Typically, BIBs are designed to predict success in a particular job because they contribute to a predictor sample, which is used to make personnel selection decisions.\n\nThere are two types of BIBs: the empirical and the rational. With the empirical BIB, each item is correlated with a measure of job performance or other criterion of job success. Those items that can predict job success are retained for the BIB. The rationale approach is to start with a job analysis to determine the knowledge, skill, ability, and other job characteristics (KSAOs) needed for the job. Items are chosen that reflect the required KSAOs.\n\nA great deal of research has shown that BIBs are able to predict job success. Both types of BIBs, the empirical and the rational seem to work equally well.\n"}
{"id": "55014812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55014812", "title": "Brzeg water tower", "text": "Brzeg water tower\n\nBrzeg water tower - a historic water tower in the town of Brzeg, Opole Voivodeship, Poland. \n\nWhen the oldest waterworks for the town of Brzeg (\"Brieg\"), built in the second half of the nineteenth-century was not sufficient for the town's populous, in 1864, the town authorities set out to built a new water tower which was completed in the latter part of the aforesaid year. Initially, water was taken from the Oder River, however, due to noted frequent epidemics, a waterworks was built in Gierszowice to supply the water tower. \n"}
{"id": "20631204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20631204", "title": "Central African Red Cross Society", "text": "Central African Red Cross Society\n\nCentral African Red Cross Society also known as CARC was founded in 1966.It has its head in Bangui, Central African Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "14467622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14467622", "title": "Charles Berger (academic)", "text": "Charles Berger (academic)\n\nCharles R. Berger was an American professor emeritus of communication at the University of California, Davis. Berger died on September 25, 2018, from health complications arising from cancer. \n\nBerger received his B.S. in Psychology from Pennsylvania State University. After completing his undergraduate studies, he attended Michigan State University where he received his M.A. and Ph.D. in Communication.\n\nHe is a Fellow and former president of the International Communication Association. Berger is best known for his formulation of uncertainty reduction theory.\n\nHis research interests include message production processes and the processing of threat-related messages by intuitive and rational systems.\n\nHe is a former editor of \"Human Communication Research\" and co-editor (with Sandra Ball Rokeach) of \"Communication Research\". He is a member of several editorial boards of communication journals. He is currently an area editor for the \"International Encyclopedia of Communication\".\n\nHe is a Fellow and a Past President of the International Communication Association. He is a co-recipient (with Judee Burgoon) of NCA’s Mark Knapp Award.\nBerger lives in Davis, California with his wife.\n\nBerger has published over 100 articles and book chapters. He co-edited the first edition of the Handbook of Communication Science with Steven H. Chaffee. He Co-edited the second edition of the Handbook of Communication Science with Michael Roloff and David R. Ewoldsen.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3930540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3930540", "title": "Closed kinetic chain exercises", "text": "Closed kinetic chain exercises\n\nClosed kinetic chain exercises or closed chain exercises (CKC) are physical exercises performed where the hand (for arm movement) or foot (for leg movement) is fixed in space and cannot move. The extremity remains in constant contact with the immobile surface, usually the ground or the base of a machine.\n\nThe opposite of CKC exercises are open kinetic chain exercises (OKC).\n\nClosed chain exercises are often compound movements, that generally incur compressive forces, while open-chain exercises are often isolation movements that promote more shearing forces.\n\nCKC exercises involve more than one muscle group and joint simultaneously rather than concentrating solely on one, as many OKC exercises do (single-joint movements), lending the former to more utilitarian and athletic activities.\n\nThese exercises are typically weight bearing exercises, where an exerciser uses one's own body weight and/ or external weight.\n\nPush-ups and their derivatives, pull-ups (or chin-ups) and dips, concentrate on a co-contraction of the triceps, biceps, deltoids, pectorals, lats, abdominals and lower back for stabilization in various ratios depending upon angle and leverage.\n\nSquats, deadlifts, lunges, power cleans: these concentrate on a co-contraction of the quadriceps, hamstrings, hip flexors, soleus, and gastrocnemius muscles. The joints of movement include the knee, hip, and ankle.\n"}
{"id": "34421390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34421390", "title": "Community advisory board", "text": "Community advisory board\n\nA community advisory board (often called a CAB) is a type of advisory board consisting of representatives of the general public who meet with representatives of an institution to relay information between the two groups. CABs are especially associated with clinical research, in which case they review the clinical research ethics associated with the human subject research which a medical research institution conducts. CABs are an aspect of community-based participatory research.\n\nCommunity advisory boards (CABs) benefit research institutions by providing advice about the efficacy of the informed consent process and the implementation of research protocols. The CAB composition is representative of the community participating in the research being reviewed.\n\nResearchers who consult with CABs get information which they would not otherwise get about the target community demographic which they are researching.\n\nThe CAB is intended to be a way to respect the rights of research participants. Research in a community has the potential for group harm, which is distinct from the individual harm which can happen to individuals who participate. Because of the risk to communities, researchers have an obligation to community stakeholders to seek community feedback about the research.\n\nCABs and researchers must continually decide which powers to invest in a CAB. Here are some common questions which must be decided:\n\n\nA community advisory board has whatever duties the members invest in it, but various organizations have suggested that they have certain responsibilities. Besides not knowing what CABs should do, it is difficult to determine what CABs should not do. Some of the perennial problems with CABs are determining the following: who in a community can serve on a CAB, the extent to which the CAB directs research, and the extent to which the community directs the execution of the research. Researchers find that research is more productive and ethical when researchers train, recruit, and integrate members from the population targeted by the research into the research team. In consulting with the community, researchers have to meet with individuals who represent a common culture, have a communication network with the community they represent, and have a system for voicing the community's priorities.\n\nIn 2000 the National Institute of General Medical Sciences held a conference which defined some CAB duties. Those duties are as follows: \n\nAs part of international development many research institutions medical research in developing countries. When this happens, they often opt to get advice from the local community through a CAB. The process of setting up CABs in developing countries has its own problems.\n"}
{"id": "5035945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5035945", "title": "David M. Brienza", "text": "David M. Brienza\n\nDavid M. Brienza is a professor of rehabilitation science at University of Pittsburgh School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences with additional professorial appointments in bioengineering and electrical engineering.\n\nHe holds a B.S. from the University of Notre Dame in Electrical Engineering (1986) and a M.S. (1988) and Ph.D. (1991) in Electrical Engineering from the University of Virginia. From 1987 to 1991 he worked as a research assistant at the Rehabilitation Engineering Center at the University of Virginia, and in 1991 he joined the faculty of the University of Pittsburgh. Currently, he is the Director of the Seating and Soft Tissue Biomechanics Laboratory and continues to actively pursue research and development in the areas of wheelchair cushions, pressure sore and ulcer prevention, soft tissue biomechanics, telerehabilitation technology and wheelchair technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2210273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2210273", "title": "DiscoveRx", "text": "DiscoveRx\n\nDiscoverX develops, commercializes and manufactures reagents and assay kits for the drug discovery market. Their focus is on lucrative protein target classes, such as G-protein-coupled receptors and kinases.\n\nThe company is built around a proprietary technology called enzyme fragment complementation or EFC which forms the basis of the assays that they design and market. In EFC, two β-galactosidase fragments are employed which are themselves inactive. One fragment (EA) has an inactivating deletion while the second fragment (ED) has a complementing fragment; in solution where both EA and ED are present, certain pairs of fragments combine spontaneously to form active complexes. Some pairs of fragments interact only weakly and combine to produce enzyme activity only when forced into close proximity by virtue of their attachment to proteins which bind to each other. This property permits evaluation of intracellular protein interactions for use in high throughput screening of drug candidates for their effect on specific cellular pathways. The company offers a wide variety of cell lines that produce such fusion products.\n"}
{"id": "58400620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58400620", "title": "Effie Ellis", "text": "Effie Ellis\n\nEffie Ellis (June 15, 1913- July 5, 1994) was a North Side Chicago pediatrician, child medical care consultant, and an activist for infant health and maternal education. She was a specialist in maternal, prenatal, postnatal, and preventative health care. Ellis was the first African American woman to hold an executive position in the American Medical Association. Ellis helped to create parenting education programs for the March of Dimes. She has notable success in research technology, helping to develop the technique used to save blue babies lacking sufficient heart function. Ellis was a proponent of public health and was determined to promote health maintenance across all socioeconomic levels. In 1989, Ellis was inducted to the Chicago Women’s Hall of Fame for her efforts in improving the lives of the black community and helping to lower infant mortality rates.\n\nEllis was born in Hawkinsville, Georgia to Joshua P. O'Neal and Althea (Hamilton) O'Neal. In 1933, she obtained her bachelors degree in Biology and Chemistry upon graduating from Spelman College. Ellis then attended graduate school at Atlanta University where she acquired a master's degree in biology in 1935. In 1950 Ellis graduated from University of Illinois College of Medicine where she graduated with honors and fifth in her class. \n\nFollowing graduate school, she was presented with a grant to study diseases and parasites in Puerto Rico, which prompted her passion for healthcare for all socioeconomic backgrounds. Ellis served as a pediatric residency at Massachusetts General Hospital from 1951-1952. Her primary concerns were with the black community, children, and child mortality rates. She aided in the development of parenting and education programs for the March of Dimes. She dedicated much of her treating and advising to new and expecting mothers. \n\nEllis obtained a postdoctoral fellowship studying pediatric cardiology at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine from July 1, 1952 to June 30, 1953. Her team helped to develop the technique to help save blue babies (those infants with inadequate oxygen supply). In 1970 Ellis became the first African American woman to hold an executive position in the American Medical Association, which she held for five years. She became a Director of Maternal Care and Health Care for Ohio's Department of Health in 1960. In 1970, Ellis was appointed to the President's Committee on the Handicapped. Ellis was inducted the Chicago's Women Hall of Fame in 1989.\n\nEllis married to Arthur. W. Ellis in 1935 and later married James D. Solomon on March 23, 1953. She died in Northwestern Memorial Hospital on July 5, 1994. \n\n \n"}
{"id": "1919614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1919614", "title": "Gas leak", "text": "Gas leak\n\nA gas leak refers to a leak of natural gas or other gaseous product from a pipeline or other containment into any area where the gas should not be present. Because a small leak may gradually build up an explosive concentration of gas, leaks are very dangerous. In addition to causing fire and explosion hazards, leaks can kill vegetation, including large trees, and may release powerful greenhouse gases to the atmosphere.\n\nPure natural gas is colorless and odorless, and is composed primarily of methane. Unpleasant scents in the form of traces of mercaptans are usually added, to assist in identifying leaks. This odor may be perceived as rotting eggs, or a faintly unpleasant skunk smell. Persons detecting the odor must evacuate the area and abstain from using open flames or operating electrical equipment, to reduce the risk of fire and explosion.\n\nAs a result of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 passed in the United States, federal safety standards require companies providing natural gas to conduct safety inspections for gas leaks in homes and other buildings receiving natural gas. The gas company is required to inspect gas meters and inside gas piping from the point of entry into the building to the outlet side of the gas meter for gas leaks. This may require entry into private homes by the natural gas companies to check for hazardous conditions.\n\nGas leaks can damage or kill plants. In addition to leaks from natural gas pipes, methane and other gases migrating from landfill garbage disposal sites can also cause chlorosis and necrosis in grass, weeds, or trees. In some cases, leaking gas may migrate as far as from the source of the leak to an affected tree.\n\nSmall animals and birds are more sensitive to toxic gases, including the methane and carbon monoxide present in natural gas. The expression \"canary in a coal mine\" derives from the historical practice of using a canary as an animal sentinel to detect toxic naturally occurring coal gas.\n\nMethane, the primary constituent of natural gas, is up to 120 times as potent a greenhouse gas as carbon dioxide. Thus, the release of unburned natural gas produces much stronger effects than the carbon dioxide that would have been released if the gas had been burned as intended.\n\nIn the United States, most state and federal agencies have adopted the Gas Piping and Technology Committee (GPTC) standards for grading natural gas leaks.\n\nA \"Grade 1 leak\" is a leak that represents an existing or probable hazard to persons or property, and requires immediate repair or continuous action until the conditions are no longer hazardous.\nExamples of a Grade 1 leak are:\n\nA \"Grade 2 leak\" is a leak that is recognized as being non-hazardous at the time of detection, but justifies scheduled repair based on probable future hazard.\nExamples of a Grade 2 Leak are:\n\nA \"Grade 3 leak\" is non-hazardous at the time of detection and can be reasonably expected to remain non-hazardous.\nExamples of a Grade 3 Leak are:\n\nIn 2012, Boston University professor Nathan Phillips and his students drove along all of Boston roads with a gas sensor, identifying 3300 leaks. The Conservation Law Foundation produced a map showing around 4000 leaks reported to the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities. In July 2014, the Environmental Defense Fund released an interactive online map based on gas sensors attached to three mapping cars which already were being driven along Boston streets to update Google Earth Street View. This survey differed from the previous studies in that an estimate of leak severity was produced, rather than just leak detection. This map should help the gas utility to prioritize leak repairs, as well as raising public awareness of the problem.\n\nLegislation passed in 2014 requires gas suppliers to make greater efforts to control some of the 20,000 documented leaks in the US state of Massachusetts. The new law requires grade 1 and 2 leaks to be repaired if the street above a gas pipe is dug up, and requires priority be given to leaks near schools. It provides a mechanism for increased revenue from ratepayers (up to 1.5% without further approval) to cover the cost of repairs and replacement of leak-prone materials (like cast iron and non-cathodically protected steel) on an accelerated basis. The law sets a target of 20 years for replacement of pipes made from leak-prone materials if feasible given the revenue cap; , Columbia Gas of Massachusetts (formerly named \"Bay State Gas\"), Berkshire Gas, Liberty Utilities, National Grid, and Unitil say they will meet this target, but NSTAR says it will take 25 years to complete. Leaks, statistics on leak-prone materials, and financial statements are reported annually to the Department of Public Utilities, which also has responsibility for rate-setting.\n\nAdditional proposals not included in the law would have required grade 3 leaks to be repaired during road construction, and priority for leaks which are killing trees or which were near hospitals or churches.\n\nAn attorney for the Conservation Law Foundation stated that the leaks were worth $38.8 million in lost natural gas, which also contributes 4% of the state's greenhouse gas emissions. A federal study prompted by US Senator Edward J. Markey concluded that Massachusetts consumers paid approximately $1.5 billion from 2000–2011 for gas which leaked and benefited no one. Markey has also backed legislation that would implement similar requirements at the national level, along with financing provisions for repairs.\n\nCatastrophic gas leaks, such as the Bhopal disaster are well-recognized as problems, but the more-subtle effects of chronic low-level leaks have been slower to gain recognition.\n\nIn work with dangerous gases (such as in a lab or industrial setting), a gas leak may require hazmat emergency response, especially if the leaked material is flammable, explosive, corrosive, or toxic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3385973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3385973", "title": "Global Network of People living with HIV/AIDS", "text": "Global Network of People living with HIV/AIDS\n\nThe Global Network of People living with HIV (GNP+) is an international network representing all people living with HIV and AIDS. Their main agenda covers sexual and reproductive health/rights, human rights and the empowerment of people living with HIV and is named by GNP+ as the \"Global Advocacy Agenda\". This agenda was agreed upon at the 1999 International Conference of People Living with HIV/AIDS in Warsaw, Poland.\nGNP+ is located in Amsterdam, The Netherlands.\n\nGNP+ advocates to improve the quality of life of all HIV positive people.\n\nFunding for the \"Global Advocacy Agenda\" is currently from the UK Department for International Development (DfID), the Netherlands Ministry of Development Cooperation, and the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (Norad).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52207602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52207602", "title": "Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network", "text": "Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network\n\nThe Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network (GOARN) is a network composed of numerous technical and public health institutions, laboratories, NGOs, and other organizations that work to observe and respond to threatening epidemics. GOARN works closely with and under the World Health Organization (WHO), which is one of its most notable partners. Its goals are to: examine and study diseases, evaluate the risks that certain diseases pose, and improve international capability to deal with diseases.\n\nThe World Health Organization realized at the start of the 21st century that it did not have the resources required to adequately respond to and prevent epidemics around the world. Thus, a \"Framework for Global Outbreak and Response\" was created by the Department of Communicable Diseases Surveillance and Response, and Regional Offices. This framework was put then forth in a meeting in Geneva from April 26–28, 2000. In this meeting, which was attended by 121 representatives from 67 institutions, the decision was made to form GOARN to contribute resources, coordination, surveillance, and technical assistance towards combating diseases.\n\nIt was decided that GOARN would be directed by a steering committee made of 20 representatives of GOARN partners and an operational support team (OST) based in WHO. The steering committee oversees and plans the activities of GOARN, and the OST is composed of a minimum of 5–6 WHO staff. Task forces and groups were established to deal with specific issues. GOARN resources are primarily coordinated by the World Health Organization.\n\nThe WHO's guiding principles are to standardize \"epidemiological, laboratory, clinical management, research, communication, logistics, support, security, evacuation, and communication systems\" and coordinative international resources to support local efforts by GOARN partners to combat outbreaks. It also focuses on improving long term ability to provide technical assistance to affected areas.\n\nGOARN has grown to now have over 600 partners in the form of public health institutions, networks, laboratories, and United Nations and non-governmental organizations. Technical institutions, networks, and organizations that have the ability to improve GOARN's capabilities are eligible for partnership. Through its partners, GOARN is staffed by a variety of individuals who specialize in public health, such as \"doctors, nurses, infection control specialists, logisticians, laboratory specialists; communication, anthropology and social mobilization experts, emergency management and public health professionals among others.\"\n\nAs its biggest partner, WHO plays a large role in GOARN. Alongside coordinating its resources to combat outbreaks, WHO provides much of the staffing and assistance for GOARN, though as will be covered later, does not fund GOARN directly. Since the network is primarily led by the WHO, there is some uncertainty as to whether WHO should be considered a partner in GOARN or if the network should be considered a WHO initiative.\n\nAnother notable partner is the Center for Disease Control, which sends technical resources and staff to GOARN. The CDC also has a history of resource sharing and cooperation with WHO in order to combat disease.\n\nThe WHO does not directly fund GOARN. Instead, GOARN members and outside fundraising that is carried out each time there is a new incidence is used to support the GOARN response. The Nuclear Threat Initiative provides GOARN with US$500,000 as a revolving fund, meant to be used for quickly mobilizing response teams. This is known as the WHO-NTI Global Emergency Response Fund, and must be repaid after withdrawal. The GOARN is effective at operating from a fairly small budget.\n\nGOARN has responded to over 120 occurrences in 85 countries and has deployed over 2,300 experts into the field. Some examples of deployments are the SARS outbreak in Asia in 2003, Rift Valley fever, and the nipah virus around the Indian subcontinent.\n\nSince its creation, GOARN cooperated with various other organizations to control outbreaks and improve national capacity to respond to diseases. A brief history of GOARN's work against international diseases is as follows. In 2000–2003, GOARN primarily responded to outbreaks of diseases such as cholera, meningitis, and yellow fever in Africa. It supported field investigation and outbreak containment. In 2003, GOARN helped to deploy international teams and helped to coordinate the response against SARS. In 2004, the network was one of the first to deploy against H5N1 influenza. In April–July 2005, GOARN helped to control Marburg Hemorrhagic fever in Angola. It carried out some \"risk assessment and preparedness missions\" in 2006, along with some response to human bird flu. In 2008/2009, GOARN responded to cholera in Zimbabwe.\n\nGOARN played a role in containing the 2003 SARS outbreak in Asia. The network sent teams of experts in epidemiology, microbiology/virology, and infection control to Hanoi, Vietnam in March 14, 2003 and then Beijing China in March 25, 2003. GOARN assisted during this outbreak to not only study the outbreak and provide assistance, but also facilitate communication between the Department of Health (Hong Kong) and the WHO.\n\nEarliest signs of the outbreak in China were reported February 11–24, when multiple people were reported to contract the disease. WHO was notified February 28 and then directly notified GOARN March 13. The first members of a WHO/GOARN outbreak control team arrived in Hong Kong March 14, followed by another 5-person GOARN team 12 days later. This second team transitioned to Guangdong, where they investigated the earliest cases of SARS and conducted interviews with health staff. The outbreak was declared by WHO to be contained by July 5.\n\nWorldwide, GOARN carried out many of the operations for the initial response to SARS through the mobilization of field teams. Also through GOARN, the WHO developed many international networks to create tools and standards for containing the epidemic. These networks communicated data by teleconference and use of secure websites for sharing of information.\n\nBesides these networks and field teams, GOARN also assisted nations by directly providing assistance to affected areas and improving their capacity to respond to such threats in the future. GOARN's role in the outbreak was recognized by the World Health Assembly during the 56th Assembly in resolution WHA56.29.\n\nOn March 23, 2014, the first reports of Ebola in Guinea were reported by WHO's Regional Office in Africa. Five days later, the first GOARN team was sent to Guinea. This team found the situation to be quite severe and its findings were discussed in a press conference in Geneva April 8.\n\nIn the third week of April, WHO collaborated with GOARN to send a new medical team trained in infection prevention/control and intensive care to Guinea's principal hospital, Donka Hospital. Two weeks later, on May 5, WHO deployed experts, thirty three of whom were from GOARN, to West Africa to assist in the response to the outbreak. The outbreak was detected to have spread to Sierre Leone later in the month.\n\nOn June 23, a GOARN steering committee session sent a message to WHO requesting for WHO to lead the response more strongly because it was the only agency with the resources and staff to do so.\n\nOver the course of the outbreak, the network deployed 895 experts, including \"doctors, nurses, infection control specialists, logisticians, laboratory specialists; communication, anthropology and social mobilisation experts, emergency management and public health professionals.\" The network is still involved in the response to Ebola.\n\nIn Sierre Leone, GOARN has sent case management and laboratory experts from the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh to help train the response capacity of health care and laboratory workers case management and diagnosis.\n\nIn Northern Iraq, the Syrian Civil War displaced many refugees into the Kurdistan. The refugee camps suffer from poor sanitation, which has led to cholera outbreaks in the region in 2007 and 2012. GOARN, as per the request of the Ministry of Health of Iraq for support and training in outbreak response, deployed a multidisciplinary team of six experts to the Northern Iraqian Dohuk and Erbil camps to assist with assessing the risk of cholera and other diseases as well as assisting MoH to prepare for response to the diseases.\n\nGOARN supported countries and various other outbreak control organizations to fight against the H1N1 outbreak in the US and Mexico. The GOARN alert and request for assistance started in Mexico April 24, 2009. Over the course of the outbreak, GOARN helped the Pan American Health Organization coordinate and exchange information with the CDC and Public Health Agency of Canada. It was provided with support and training from the Regional Office for the Western Pacific Response so that it could support regional offices in Manila and carry out field missions in Malaysia and Mongolia. The network carried out a joint training course with the Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean in Cairo.\n\nAll in all, GOARN carried out 188 missions to 27 countries to strengthen international coordination between these organizations and to improve international capacity to respond to threats. Its activities consisted of assessment of the situation, communication between partners, infection control, laboratory diagnostic, and transportation of specimens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "242333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242333", "title": "Glory (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)", "text": "Glory (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)\n\nGlory is a fictional character in the television series \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" portrayed by Clare Kramer. Glory is a god from a hell dimension and was the main antagonist of the fifth season.\n\nGlorificus (also known as \"Glory\") is a god from a hell dimension in which she ruled alongside two other deities. Her power and dominion were vast and continued to grow stronger and stronger, as did her lust for misery and destruction, and she quickly became the most powerful of the three hell gods. Fearful that Glorificus would seize total control of the dimension for herself, the other two allied together and went to war against her. The hell gods barely defeated her, but despite their victory, she was too powerful to destroy, so they banished her into the earthly dimension, where her essence would be imprisoned in a human child named Ben, created solely to \"contain\" her until he eventually died as a mortal, sealing her.\n\nGlory was too powerful to be completely contained within the human vessel and when Ben reached his 20s, Glory began to gain control over Ben for short periods of time, taking the form of a vain, self-centered human female possessing superhuman strength, speed and invulnerability. Glory's strength was greater than that of any Slayer, vampire or demon on Earth, although her powers were greatly diminished compared with those she had in her true form. Dark magicks prevent humans from learning that Glory and Ben are one and the same; even when she transforms right in front of someone, they instantly forget what they saw. The spell does not affect supernatural creatures like vampires and demons. This becomes a recurring joke in the penultimate episode of Season Five, where Spike finds himself repeatedly having to explain that Ben and Glory are the same person, only for people to either to misunderstand him or to instantly forget. As Ben and Glory's personalities begin to merge more and more (see below), the magic weakens until, in the finale, the whole gang is able to see through it. This human form is Glory's only weakness; if the human vessel containing her is killed, then Glory perishes with him.\n\nGlory's goal is to find the Key, a \"mystical energy nexus\" which is the only way for her to return to her original dimension. Unfortunately, using the Key will break down the barriers between all dimensions, causing all worlds to bleed into each other and allowing \"Hell to reign on Earth\". The Key was safe, guarded by an ancient group of monks known as The Order of Dagon. When they discovered \"The Beast\" (Glory) was searching for the Key they chose to hide it. Using ancient magic they transformed the Key into a human girl and placed her under the protection of the Slayer Buffy, altering the memories of the Slayer and anyone connected to her into believing the girl was Buffy's younger sister Dawn. The Order of Dagon were eventually destroyed by Glory. The last monk of the order was taken prisoner and interrogated by Glory, and later rescued by Buffy. Before the monk died from his wounds he revealed to Glory (under torture) that the Key had been transformed, but not what the Key had become. The monk, after being rescued by Buffy, revealed to Buffy that Dawn was the Key, something she already suspected.\n\nGlory was also opposed by a military order known as the \"Knights of Byzantium\", composed of knights and clerics. They swore to prevent Glory from using the Key, and they attempted to kill Dawn before Glory could find her. In the episode \"Spiral\", a large group of knights besiege Buffy and Dawn, but Glory arrives and slaughters nearly all of them, taking the Key with her.\n\nThe Key is an ancient power, an ancient green mystical energy that according to Glory \"is almost as old as she is\". The Key needs to draw on powers from the dimension it's in before being used, which is why it can only be used at a certain time and certain place. Who or what created the Key or how is unknown, even its true purpose is never fully revealed. The Key seems to work by destroying the barriers that separate one dimension from another. The longer the Key is in use, the more the walls of reality begin to break down. When the Key is activated, a small portal opens and begins to grow, in which demons, creatures and entire dimensions begin immediately bleeding through. \n\nBuffy's first confrontation with Glory came shortly after discovering there was something not right about Dawn. Buffy tried to go up against Glory and failed miserably. Glory beat Buffy severely, destroying an entire building in the process. The only thing Buffy did manage to do was escape during a temper tantrum by Glory which caused the building to collapse, escaping with the last surviving monk who quickly revealed to her the truth about Dawn being the Key and Buffy as her protector.\n\nAlthough Glory enters early on in Season 5, the Scooby Gang knows very little about her, only discovering her name from one of Glory's minions. Glory's god-like status, her extreme power level, her origins, the Key's true nature and history are not known until later episodes. Glory comes to Sunnydale looking for \"The Key\", which will allow her to return to her own dimension. The Key would cause damage to all dimensions, including the dimension Buffy and her friends inhabit, though Glory seems to be unaware or unconcerned of this fact. Glory is not aware of what form the Key has taken, though she knows that Buffy, the Slayer, protects it. For her part, Buffy is not initially aware of the Key's nature either. It is eventually revealed that Buffy's \"new sister\", Dawn, is the Key, in human form.\n\nShe begins the quest to locate the Key, aided by a race of pale, black-eyed demons who are loyal to her almost to a fault, though she does not care for them and viciously abuses them, both verbally and physically, for even the slightest failures. Glory quickly establishes herself as one of Buffy's most dangerous and determined enemies. At one point, she confronts Buffy in her own home, openly threatening to kill Buffy's friends and family and force Buffy herself to watch her do so.\n\nDue to Glory being a god in a human body, the human mind can not control such power and this gradually turns Glory insane. In order to maintain her sanity and power, Glory feeds off the mental energies of humans by a process that Buffy and her friends refer to as \"brain-sucking\". She inserts her fingers into the victim's head, absorbing the energies that bind the victim's mind. The humans that she \"devours\" in this way become incoherent and mentally unstable; those affected are also able to see Dawn in her true form. Glory's arrival in Sunnydale is followed by an inexplicable increase in the number of mental patients. One of her unfortunate victims is Willow's girlfriend, Tara, who later inadvertently betrays Dawn to Glory. The Scoobies try to run, but Glory still manages to kidnap Dawn shortly afterward. \nThe Key can only be used at a certain time, and as that time draws near, the power that separates Glory from Ben dissolves. They still inhabit Ben's body separately, but their memories and personalities begin to blur together.\n\nAfter recovering from a mental breakdown caused by Glory's kidnapping of Dawn, Buffy decides to attack Glory with everything she has: Willow's magic spell to restore Tara's sanity stolen by Glory, at the same time weakening Glory's mind; the Dagon Sphere (a weapon created by the monks that causes physical pain to Glory); Buffy's robot double (the \"Buffybot\") originally Spike's sex toy; Olaf, The Troll God's Hammer (with which Buffy is able beat Glory in battle and severely weaken her albeit temporarily, due to the hammer being a weapon of the gods); and eventually a wrecking ball, commandeered by Xander. Meanwhile, Spike, Giles, and Anya attack her minions. The final spell that opens the rift between dimensions had already been started by one of Glory's disciples - Doc - by cutting Dawn with a knife and making her bleed (the act of which opens a portal to the other dimensions). After killing Doc, Buffy realizes that because the monks created Dawn from her essence, they share the same blood which means not only Dawn's blood but her own can close the portal, but it would also require her to die (her blood must stop flowing for the gateway to close). After saying goodbye to her sister, Buffy jumps into the portal that is opening, instantly dying and closing the gateway.\n\nGlory is left defeated and significantly weakened, losing her hold on this reality and returning to the form and mind of Ben. Giles knows that Glory will eventually regain her power and return to get her revenge on Buffy unless Ben is killed, so he smothers Ben to death with his bare hands, ensuring that Glory can never return.\n\nGlory is also referred to as \"Glorificus\" by her minions and in most textual references, and occasionally as \"The Beast\" by the monks who created Dawn (although she has nothing to do with The Beast who appeared in \"Angel\", the spin-off series of \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\").\n\nAfter Glory's defeat, her final appearance in the series is at the end of the episode \"Lessons\", as an avatar of the First Evil along with most of the other major villains from the series.\n\n\"That Which Cannot Be Named\" came into existence before written word, and therefore (as its title implies) has no name. When the hell-god came to this dimension, she was dubbed \"Glorificus\" or sometimes \"Glorifius,\" names which she shortened to \"Glory.\" She was also known as \"the Glorious One\" (among many other amusing, groveling titles such as \"Her Splendiferousness,\" \"Her Sparkling Luminescence\" and \"Oh Sweaty-Naughty-Feelings-Causing One\") by her demon minions, and as \"the Beast\" or \"the Abomination\" by the human priesthood and the Knights of Byzantium. The Scooby Gang and Ben often refer to her by the insulting name of \"Hell-Bitch.\"\n\nAccording to Jane Espenson, Glory was originally named Cherry.\n\nIn Season 5, Episode 13, \"Blood Ties,\" the gang begins discussing the Watcher Council's research on Glory. Buffy asks whether or not Glory, as a god, can summon elements like lightning. Giles responds, \"Normally, yes, but since she is in human form, her powers are severely limited.\" During season five the following were demonstrated:\n\nThe extent of Glory's true powers as a hell-god were never revealed or used, though according to Gregor in \"Spiral\", they were beyond what even her compatriot hell-gods could conceive. She later secures Ben's aid in recapturing Dawn by promising him immortality.\n\nClare Kramer says Glory's strength was her lack of self-doubt: \"She was completely secure in herself, focused on what she wanted and dedicated to her cause.\" Her strength was also her downfall; Kramer notes that Glory was unable \"to look at more than just herself.\"\n\nAccording to Doug Petrie, \"Joss very much wanted someone who was like the Joker to Batman. Someone who was just dynamic, charismatic and psychotic and we have all that. And Glory looks a lot better in a hot little red dress than the Joker ever did! We've got it all in Glory.\"\n\n\nThe picture in the living room of Glory's mansion is a copy of Tamara de Lempicka's \"Irene and her sisters\" a.k.a. \"Four nudes\". The Polish art déco/futurist artist is renowned for being strongly feminist and openly bisexual/lesbian.\n\nIn \"Buffy & Angel: Official Yearbook\" 2006, Glory was voted number one by fans as \"Best Buffyverse Villain\", followed by Angelus and the Mayor respectively.\n\nGlory appeared in 13 canonical episodes:\n\n\nThe character's popularity prompted Diamond Select Toys to release two unique Glory action figures in 2006 and 2007: one figure is modeled on the character wearing her trademark red dress, and the other features the character dressed in black, as seen in \"The Gift\". The latter action figure was released as part of a set, with the other figure being Dawn from the same episode.\n\nA maquette of Glory was released as part of Electric Tiki's \"Tooned-Up Television\" line.\n\n"}
{"id": "25462491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25462491", "title": "Halima Tayo Alao", "text": "Halima Tayo Alao\n\nHalima Tayo Alao is a Nigerian architect and former Minister of Environment and Housing during President Umaru Yar'Adua's administration.\n\nHalima Tayo Alao was born on December 6, 1956. She earned an MSc in Architecture from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria in 1981. She joined the Kwara State civil service in 1982.\nShe became a Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Works and Transport, Ilorin, Kwara State. She received master's degree in Public Administration, 2003 from the University of Ilorin.\nFrom 2005 to July 2006 she was Federal Minister of State for Health.\n\nHalima Tayo Alao was appointed Minister of Environment and Housing on 26 July 2007 by President Umaru Yar'Adua.\nShe was dismissed in a major cabinet reshuffle on October 29, 2008.\nThe dismissal was said to have been due to her constant arguments with Chuka Odom, minister of state and representative of the Progressive Peoples Alliance.\nHer replacement was John Odey, appointed on 17 December 2008.\n"}
{"id": "12790131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12790131", "title": "Healthcare in Malaysia", "text": "Healthcare in Malaysia\n\nHealthcare in Malaysia is mainly under the Ministry of Health. Malaysia generally has an efficient and widespread system of health care, operating a two-tier health care system consisting of both a government base universal healthcare system and a co-existing private healthcare system. Infant mortality rate – a standard in determining the overall efficiency of healthcare – in 2005 was 10, comparing favourably with the United States and western Europe. Life expectancy at birth in 2005 was 74 years.\n\nHealthcare in Malaysia has undergone radical transformations. Earliest pre-colonial medical care was confined to traditional remedies current among local populations of Malays, Chinese, Indian and other ethnic groups. The advent of colonialism brought western medical practice into the country. Since the country's independence in August 1957, the system of medical care transferred from the British colonial rule has been transformed to meet the needs of emerging diseases, as well as national political requirements.\n\nMalaysia has a widespread system of health care. It implements a universal healthcare system, which exists along the private healthcare system. Infant mortality rate, a standard in determining the overall efficiency of healthcare, in 2005 was 10, comparing favourably with the United States and Western Europe. Life expectancy at birth in 2005 was 74 years. Infant mortality fell from 75 per 1000 live births in 1957 to 7 in 2013.\n\nHealthcare in Malaysia is divided into private and public sectors. Public provision is rather basic, especially in rural areas. The government produced a plan, \"1Care for 1Malaysia\", in 2009, with the intention of reform based on the principle ‘use according to need, pay according to ability’, but little progress towards its implementation has been made. Malaysian society places importance on the expansion and development of healthcare, putting 5% of the government social sector development budget into public healthcare, an increase of more than 47% over the previous figure. This has meant an overall increase of more than RM 2 billion. With a rising and ageing population, the Government wishes to improve in many areas including the refurbishment of existing hospitals, building and equipping new hospitals, expansion of the number of polyclinics, and improvements in training and expansion of telehealth. Over the last couple of years, they have increased their efforts to overhaul the systems and attract more foreign investment.\n\nThe government hospitals have the country's best healthcare equipment and facilities apart from having specialists in the field. However, the main drawback is the shortage of staff in public hospitals compare to number of patients seeking treatment has led to long queues. Private hospitals are mostly located at urban areas and are equipped with the latest diagnostic and imaging facilities. Private hospitals were not seen as an ideal investment: it has often taken up to ten years before companies have seen any profits. However, the situation has now changed and companies are now exploring this area again, corresponding with the increased number of foreigners entering Malaysia for medical care and the recent government focus on developing the health tourism industry. The Government has also been trying to promote Malaysia as a health care destination, regionally and internationally.\n\nGovernment agencies have invested heavily in healthcare companies. About a third of private hospital beds are in concerns with government investment.\n\nThe Malaysian government places importance on the expansion and development of health care, putting 5% of the government social sector development budget into public health care—an increase of more than 47% over the previous figure. This has meant an overall increase of more than RM 2 billion. With a rising and ageing population, the Government wishes to improve in many areas including the refurbishment of existing hospitals, building and equipping new hospitals, expansion of the number of polyclinics, and improvements in training and expansion of telehealth. A major problem with the health care sector is the lack of medical centres for rural areas, which the government is trying to counter through the development of and expansion of a system called \"tele-primary care\". Another issue is the overperscription of drugs, though this has decreased in recent years. Over the last couple of years, the Malaysian Health Ministry has increased its efforts to overhaul the system and attract more foreign investment.\n\nThe Malaysian government has developed a National Influenza Pandemic Preparedness Plan (NIPPP) which serves as a time bound guide for preparedness and response plan for influenza pandemic. It provides a policy and strategic framework for a multisectoral response and contains specific advice and actions to be undertaken by the Ministry of Health at the different levels, other governmental departments and agencies and non-governmental organisations to ensure that resources are mobilised and used most efficiently before, during and after a pandemic episode. Since the Nipah virus outbreak in 1999, the Malaysian Health Ministry have put in place processes to be better prepared to protect the Malaysian population from the threat of infectious diseases. Malaysia was fully prepared during the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) situation (Malaysia was not a SARS affected country) and the episode of the H5N1 (bird flu) outbreak in 2004.\n\nIn January 2011 the Malaysia government launched a program to renew prescriptions via mail. Medicine via Post targets patients with chronic diseases. To be eligible to participate patients have to receive a certification from a pharmacist that their condition is stable and that they understand how to properly use their medication. Patients pay delivery costs which are RM3.5 in Putrajaya, RM5.0 for other locations in Peninsular Malaysia, and RM8.0 for Sabah and Sarawak. The program is based on a pilot-project conducted at Putrajaya Hospital started in October 2009.\n\nThe Malaysian health care system requires doctors to perform a compulsory three years service with public hospitals to ensure that the manpower in these hospitals is maintained. Doctors are required to perform 4 years including 2 years of housemanship and 2 years government service with public hospitals throughout the nation, ensuring adequate coverage of medical needs for the general population. Foreign doctors are encouraged to apply for employment in Malaysia, especially if they are qualified to a higher level. There is still, however, a significant shortage in the medical workforce, especially of highly trained specialists; thus, certain medical care and treatment are available only in large cities. Recent efforts to bring many facilities to other towns have been hampered by lack of expertise to run the available equipment. As a result, certain medical care and treatment is available only in large cities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47613867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47613867", "title": "Henry S. Spalding", "text": "Henry S. Spalding\n\nHenry Stanislaus Spalding, S.J. (1865-1934) was the author of several books about medical ethics but was best known for his series of adventure books for boys. His stories incorporated elements of the Catholic faith as well as history and outdoor adventure.\n\nHenry Stanislaus Spalding was born January 10, 1865 in Bardstown, Kentucky. The Spalding family was staunchly Catholic, having been among the early English settlers of the colony of Maryland, and with other families had settled in the Bardstown/Rolling Fork area, which later grew into the first Catholic diocese west of the Appalachians. Among the descendants of these original Spalding settlers were the Most Reverend Martin John Spalding, Archbishop of Baltimore from 1864 to 1872, and John Lancaster Spalding, who was Bishop of Peoria from 1877-1908. Though not as illustrious as these two, among Henry's siblings were a Dominican priest and four Dominican nuns.\n\nSpalding entered the Jesuit novitiate at Florissant, Missouri on August 7, 1884 and spent five years teaching at Marquette College (now Marquette University) from 1888-1893 before completing his studies for the priesthood at St. Louis University and Woodstock College. Here he was ordained in 1899 by Cardinal James Gibbons. He later returned to Marquette, where he held the post of Prefect of Studies and Discipline from 1903-1908. During this time, with then-president of Marquette, Alexander Burrowes, he helped establish the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmacy (now the Medical College of Wisconsin), of which he subsequently was appointed regent.\n\nIn 1911 Spalding worked with Burrowes once more to establish the Loyola University School of Medicine (now the Stritch School of Medicine), where he remained Regent until 1917. Both here and at Marquette, the establishment of these medical schools involved mergers with secular schools, and coming under the authority of these Catholic institutions meant that certain subjects that contradicted Catholic teaching had to be avoided. Perhaps as a result of this, Spalding began teaching medical ethics at this time, produced several textbooks on the subject, and would later develop a specialty in Sociology, crowning his career with a textbook on the subject, in collaboration with fellow Jesuit Herbert Muntsch.\n\nSpalding began publishing stories for boys in 1901, beginning with \"The Cave of the Beech Fork\" and following it in 1903 with \"The Sheriff of the Beech Fork\". Both stories are set in 1815 in Spalding's hometown of Bardstown, Kentucky, and mention actual figures such as William Byrne and Bishop Benedict Joseph Flaget, both of whom figured heavily in the life of his relative, Archbishop Martin John Spalding. The historical setting and the outdoors adventures in these books prompted Maurice Francis Egan to say of them, \"In \"The Cave by the Beech Fork\" a new genre is credited in American Catholic Literature...all the fresh air books provided for boys had hitherto been written by non-Catholics...\"\n\nSpalding's special study of Jacques Marquette formed the basis for his next historical novels, \"The Race for Copper Island\" and \"The Marks of the Bear Claws\", and his appointment as Knights of Columbus chaplain to Camp Johnson in Jacksonville, Florida during World War I gave him the impetus to write two books set in the Everglades, \"Held in the Everglades\" and \"Signals from the Bay Tree\". And having descended from early Maryland settlers, he prepared for the Maryland Tercentenary in 1934 by writing \"Catholic Colonial Maryland\" as well as the historical novel \"Arrows of Iron\".\n\nIn 1932 Spalding was diagnosed with pernicious anemia and was not expected to live, but he recovered and was able to celebrate his Golden Jubilee on August 12, 1934. Early that fall, however, the anemia returned, and as he worsened, he was given last rites and was visited by several of his siblings one last time before slipping into a coma and passing away on December 27, 1934.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4482285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4482285", "title": "Hormonal contraception", "text": "Hormonal contraception\n\nHormonal contraception refers to birth control methods that act on the endocrine system. Almost all methods are composed of steroid hormones, although in India one selective estrogen receptor modulator is marketed as a contraceptive. The original hormonal method—the combined oral contraceptive pill—was first marketed as a contraceptive in 1960. In the ensuing decades many other delivery methods have been developed, although the oral and injectable methods are by far the most popular. Altogether, 18% of the world's contraceptive users rely on hormonal methods. Hormonal contraception is highly effective: when taken on the prescribed schedule, users of steroid hormone methods experience pregnancy rates of less than 1% per year. Perfect-use pregnancy rates for most hormonal contraceptives are usually around the 0.3% rate or less. Currently available methods can only be used by women; the development of a male hormonal contraceptive is an active research area.\n\nThere are two main types of hormonal contraceptive formulations: \"combined methods\" which contain both an estrogen and a progestin, and \"progestogen-only methods\" which contain only progesterone or one of its synthetic analogues (progestins). Combined methods work by suppressing ovulation and thickening cervical mucus; while progestogen-only methods reduce the frequency of ovulation, most of them rely more heavily on changes in cervical mucus. The incidence of certain side effects is different for the different formulations: for example, breakthrough bleeding is much more common with progestogen-only methods. Certain serious complications occasionally caused by estrogen-containing contraceptives are not believed to be caused by progestogen-only formulations: deep vein thrombosis is one example of this.\n\nHormonal contraception is primarily used for the prevention of pregnancy, but is also prescribed for the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome, menstrual disorders such as dysmenorrhea and menorrhagia, and hirsutism.\n\nHormonal treatments, such as hormonal contraceptives, are frequently successful at alleviating symptoms associated with polycystic ovary syndrome. Birth control pills are often prescribed to reverse the effects of excessive androgen levels, and decrease ovarian hormone production.\n\nHormonal birth control methods such as birth control pills, the contraceptive patch, vaginal ring, contraceptive implant, and hormonal IUD are used to treat cramping and pain associated with primary dysmenorrhea.\n\nOral contraceptives are prescribed in the treatment of menorrhagia to help regulate menstrual cycles and prevent prolonged menstrual bleeding. The hormonal IUD (Mirena) releases levonorgestrel which thins the uterine lining, preventing excessive bleeding and loss of iron.\n\nBirth control pills are the most commonly prescribed hormonal treatment for hirsutism, as they prevent ovulation and decrease androgen production by the ovaries. Additionally, estrogen in the pills stimulates the liver to produce more of a protein that binds to androgens and reduces their activity.\n\nModern contraceptives using steroid hormones have \"perfect-use\" or \"method\" failure rates of less than 1% per year. The lowest failure rates are seen with the implants Jadelle and Implanon, at 0.05% per year. According to \"Contraceptive Technology\", none of these methods has a failure rate greater than 0.3% per year. The SERM ormeloxifene is less effective than the steroid hormone methods; studies have found a perfect-use failure rate near 2% per year.\n\nLong-acting methods such as the implant and the IUS are user-independent methods. For user-independent methods, the \"typical\" or \"actual-use\" failure rates are the same as the method failure rates. Methods that require regular action by the user—such as taking a pill every day—have typical failure rates higher than perfect-use failure rates. \"Contraceptive Technology\" reports a typical failure rate of 3% per year for the injection Depo-Provera, and 8% per year for most other user-dependent hormonal methods. While no large studies have been done, it is hoped that newer methods which require less frequent action (such as the patch) will result in higher user compliance and therefore lower typical failure rates.\n\nWhile unpredictable breakthrough bleeding is a possible side effect for all hormonal contraceptives, it is more common with progestogen-only formulations. Most regimens of COCPs, NuvaRing, and the contraceptive patch incorporate a placebo or break week that causes regular withdrawal bleeding. While women using combined injectable contraceptives may experience amenorrhea (lack of periods), they typically have predictable bleeding comparable to that of women using COCPs.\n\nAlthough high-quality studies are lacking, it is believed that estrogen-containing contraceptives significantly decrease the quantity of milk in breastfeeding women. Progestogen-only contraceptives are not believed to have this effect. In addition, while in general the progestogen-only pill is less effective than other hormonal contraceptives, the added contraceptive effect of breastfeeding makes it highly effective in breastfeeding women.\n\nWhile combined contraceptives increase the risk for deep vein thrombosis (DVT - blood clots), progestogen-only contraceptives are not believed to affect DVT formation.\n\n\nCombined oral contraceptives can increase the risk of certain types of cardiovascular disease in women with a pre-existing condition or already-heightened risk of cardiovascular disease. Smoking (for women over 35), metabolic conditions like diabetes, obesity and family history of heart disease are all risk factors which may be exacerbated by the use of certain hormonal contraceptives.\n\nHormonal contraception methods are consistently linked with the risk of developing blood clots. However, the risk does vary depending on the hormone type or birth control method being used.\n\nThere is a growing body of research evidence investigating the links between hormonal contraception, and potential adverse effects on women’s psychological health. Findings from a large Danish study of one million women (followed up from 2000-2013) were published in 2016, and reported that the use of hormonal contraception was associated with a statistically significant increased risk of subsequent depression, particularly amongst adolescents. Within this study, women on the progestogen-only pill in particular, were 34% more likely to be subsequently be given a first diagnosis of depression or to take anti-depressants, in comparison to those not on hormonal contraception. Similarly, in 2018, another large cohort study in Sweden with women aged 12–30 (n=815,662) found an association between hormonal contraception and subsequent use of psychotropic drugs, particularly amongst adolescents (aged 12–19). These studies highlight the need for further research into the links between hormonal contraception, and adverse effects on women’s psychological health.\n\nThere are two main classes of hormonal contraceptives: \"combined contraceptives\" contain both an estrogen (usually ethinylestradiol) and a progestin. \"Progestogen-only contraceptives\" contain only progesterone or a synthetic analogue (progestin). Also marketed is ormeloxifene; while not a hormone, ormeloxifene acts on the hormonal system to prevent pregnancy.\n\nThe most popular form of hormonal contraception, the combined oral contraceptive pill is known colloquially as \"the pill\". It is taken once a day, most commonly for 21 days followed by a seven-day break, although other regimens are also used. For women not using ongoing hormonal contraception, COCPs may be taken after intercourse as emergency contraception: this is known as the Yuzpe regimen. COCPs are available in a variety of formulations.\n\nThe contraceptive patch is applied to the skin and worn continuously. A series of three patches are worn for one week each, and then the user takes a one-week break. NuvaRing is worn inside the vagina. A ring is worn for three weeks. After removal, the user takes a one-week break before inserting a new ring. As with COCPs, other regimens may be used with the contraceptive patch or NuvaRing to provide extended cycle combined hormonal contraception.\n\nSome combined injectable contraceptives can be administered as one injection per month.\n\nThe progestogen only pill (POP) is taken once per day within the same three-hour window. Several different formulations of POP are marketed. A low-dose formulation is known as \"the minipill\". Unlike COCPs, progestogen-only pills are taken every day with no breaks or placebos. For women not using ongoing hormonal contraception, progestogen-only pills may be taken after intercourse as emergency contraception. There are a number of dedicated products sold for this purpose.\n\nHormonal intrauterine contraceptives are known as intrauterine systems (IUS) or Intrauterine Devices (IUD). An IUS/IUD must be inserted by a health professional. The copper IUD does not contain hormones. While a copper-containing IUD may be used as emergency contraception, the IUS has not been studied for this purpose.\n\nDepo Provera is an injection that provides three months of contraceptive protection. Noristerat is another injection; it is given every two months.\n\nContraceptive implants are inserted under the skin of the upper arm, and contain progesterone only. Jadelle (Norplant 2) consists of two rods that release a low dose of hormones. It is effective for five years. Nexplanon has replaced the former Implanon and is also a single rod that releases etonogestrel (similar to the body's natural progesterone). The only difference between Implanon and Nexplanon is Nexplanon is radio opaque and can be detected by x-ray. This is needed for cases of implant migration. It is effective for three years and is usually done in office. It is over 99% effective. It works in 3 ways: \n1. Prevents ovulation- usually an egg does not mature\n2. thickens cervical mucus so to prevent sperm from reaching the egg\n3. If those 2 fail, the last is the progesterone causes the lining of the uterus to be too thin for implantation.\n\nOrmeloxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM). Marketed as Centchroman, Centron, or Saheli, it is pill that is taken once per week. Ormeloxifene is legally available only in India.\n\nThe effect of hormonal agents on the reproductive system is complex. It is believed that combined hormonal contraceptives work primarily by preventing ovulation and thickening cervical mucus. Progestogen-only contraceptives can also prevent ovulation, but rely more significantly on the thickening of cervical mucus. Ormeloxifene does not affect ovulation, and its mechanism of action is not well understood.\n\nCombined hormonal contraceptives were developed to prevent ovulation by suppressing the release of gonadotropins. They inhibit follicular development and prevent ovulation as a primary mechanism of action.\n\nProgestogen negative feedback decreases the pulse frequency of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release by the hypothalamus, which decreases the release of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and greatly decreases the release of luteinizing hormone (LH) by the anterior pituitary. Decreased levels of FSH inhibit follicular development, preventing an increase in estradiol levels. Progestogen negative feedback and the lack of estrogen positive feedback on LH release prevent a mid-cycle LH surge. Inhibition of follicular development and the absence of a LH surge prevent ovulation.\n\nEstrogen was originally included in oral contraceptives for better cycle control (to stabilize the endometrium and thereby reduce the incidence of breakthrough bleeding), but was also found to inhibit follicular development and help prevent ovulation. Estrogen negative feedback on the anterior pituitary greatly decreases the release of FSH, which inhibits follicular development and helps prevent ovulation.\n\nAnother primary mechanism of action of all progestogen-containing contraceptives is inhibition of sperm penetration through the cervix into the upper genital tract (uterus and fallopian tubes) by decreasing the amount of and increasing the viscosity of the cervical mucus.\n\nThe estrogen and progestogen in combined hormonal contraceptives have other effects on the reproductive system, but these have not been shown to contribute to their contraceptive efficacy:\n\nInsufficient evidence exists on whether changes in the endometrium could actually prevent implantation. The primary mechanisms of action are so effective that the possibility of fertilization during combined hormonal contraceptive use is very small. Since pregnancy occurs despite endometrial changes when the primary mechanisms of action fail, endometrial changes are unlikely to play a significant role, if any, in the observed effectiveness of combined hormonal contraceptives.\n\nThe mechanism of action of progestogen-only contraceptives depends on the progestogen activity and dose.\n\nLow dose progestogen-only contraceptives include traditional progestogen-only pills, the subdermal implant Jadelle and the intrauterine system Mirena. These contraceptives inconsistently inhibit ovulation in ~50% of cycles and rely mainly on their progestogenic effect of thickening the cervical mucus and thereby reducing sperm viability and penetration.\n\nIntermediate dose progestogen-only contraceptives, such as the progestogen-only pill Cerazette (or the subdermal implant Implanon), allow some follicular development but much more consistently inhibit ovulation in 97–99% of cycles. The same cervical mucus changes occur as with low dose progestogens.\n\nHigh dose progestogen-only contraceptives, such as the injectables Depo-Provera and Noristerat, completely inhibit follicular development and ovulation. The same cervical mucus changes occur as with very low dose and intermediate dose progestogens.\n\nIn anovulatory cycles using progestogen-only contraceptives, the endometrium is thin and atrophic. If the endometrium was also thin and atrophic during an ovulatory cycle, this could theoretically interfere with implantation of a blastocyst (embryo).\n\nOrmeloxifene does not affect ovulation. It has been shown to increase the rate of blastocyst development and to increase the speed at which the blastocyst is moved from the fallopian tubes into the uterus. Ormeloxifene also suppresses proliferation and decidualization of the endometrium (the transformation of the endometrium in preparation for possible implantation of an embryo). While they are believed to prevent implantation rather than fertilization, exactly how these effects operate to prevent pregnancy is not understood.\n\nPills—combined and progestogen-only—are the most common form of hormonal contraception. Worldwide, they account for 12% of contraceptive use. 21% of users of reversible contraceptives choose COCPs or POPs. Pills are especially popular in more developed countries, where they account for 25% of contraceptive use.\n\nInjectable hormonal contraceptives are also used by a significant portion—about 6%—of the world's contraceptive users. Other hormonal contraceptives are less common, accounting for less than 1% of contraceptive use.\n\nIn 1921, Ludwig Haberlandt demonstrated a temporary hormonal contraception in a female rabbit by transplanting ovaries from a second, pregnant, animal. By the 1930s, scientists had isolated and determined the structure of the steroid hormones and found that high doses of androgens, estrogens, or progesterone inhibited ovulation. A number of economic, technological, and social obstacles had to be overcome before the development of the first hormonal contraceptive, the combined oral contraceptive pill (COCP). In 1957 Enovid, the first COCP, was approved in the United States for the treatment of menstrual disorders. In 1960, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved an application that allowed Enovid to be marketed as a contraceptive.\n\nThe first progestogen-only contraceptive was introduced in 1969: Depo-Provera, a high-dose progestin injection. Over the next decade and a half, other types of progestogen-only contraceptive were developed: a low-dose progestogen only pill (1973); Progestasert, the first hormonal intrauterine device (1976); and Norplant, the first contraceptive implant (1983).\n\nCombined contraceptives have also been made available in a variety of forms. In the 1960s a few combined injectable contraceptives were introduced, notably Injectable Number 1 in China and Deladroxate in Latin America. A third combined injection, Cyclo-Provera, was reformulated in the 1980s by lowering the dose and renamed Cyclofem (also called Lunelle). Cyclofem and Mesigyna, another formulation developed in the 1980s, were approved by the World Health Organization in 1993. NuvaRing, a contraceptive vaginal ring, was first marketed in 2002. 2002 also saw the launch of Ortho Evra, the first contraceptive patch.\n\nIn 1991, ormeloxifene was introduced as a contraceptive in India. While it acts on the estrogen hormonal system, it is atypical in that it is a selective estrogen receptor modulator rather than an estrogen, and has the capacity for both estrogenic and antiestrogenic effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "1990508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1990508", "title": "Hyperprosexia", "text": "Hyperprosexia\n\nHyperprosexia, and paraprosexia are closely related medical and neuro-psychiatric phenomena associated with attention and concentration. They typically occur in patients suffering traumatic brain injuries.\n\n\nPatients suffering traumatic brain injury experience profound disturbance of the basic functions of the cognitive, behavioral, emotional and intellectual systems. Such patients' ability to regulate interaction between the ego and the external world is greatly diminished and they typically exhibit inflexible, concrete and sometimes inappropriate behaviors.\n"}
{"id": "27226932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27226932", "title": "Ideos", "text": "Ideos\n\nIdeos is a dietary supplement, consisting of calcium in the form of calcium carbonate, as well as vitamin D.\n\nIt can be used in osteoporosis in patients at high risk of developing vitamin D and calcium deficiency.\n"}
{"id": "24201243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24201243", "title": "La Clinica del Pueblo", "text": "La Clinica del Pueblo\n\nLa Clinica del Pueblo is a non-profit, Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) clinic that serves the Latino population of the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area that provides services through medical services, mental health and substance abuse counseling, language access services, and community health action programs.\n\nLa Clinica's mission is to build a healthy Latino community through culturally appropriate health services, focusing on those most in need.\n\nLa Clínica del Pueblo (LCDP) was founded in 1983 to address the growing medical needs of Washington's Latino community by Salvadorian activists at the Central American Refugee Center (CARECEN) and \"self-proclaimed North American hippies\" at Plenty International. Many Salvadorians fled to Washington during the Salvadoran Civil War, seeking refuge, but were unable to access traditional forms of health care due to linguistic and cultural barriers and immigration status. LCDP opened to serve these immigrants, as well as other Latin Americans fleeing war-torn countries, but soon started serving the entire Latino community.\n\nInitially, LCDP provided only basic medical care one day a week, at no cost, staffed by volunteer doctors and health promoters. It quickly became a safe place for undocumented refugees to go for care from understanding individuals. As the Latino population grew, so did LCDP. It began to provide many different social services, such as health education and outreach.\n\nIn 1988, Dr. Juan Romagoza, himself a refugee from El Salvador, became director of LCDP. Under Romagoza, LCDP expanded the scope of its operations to alternative medicine, community health outreach and prevention. In 1989, LCDP received a grant from the DC Mayor's Office of Latino Affairs to start a HIV/AIDS program. In 1990, LCDP received its first multi-year contract from the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Washington to provide physicals to Vietnamese refugees.\n\nAt this time, LCDP was still operating under CARECEN. Due its growth, LCDP's staff and patients lobbied for autonomy and in 1995, LCDP became an independent non-profit organization.\n\nFrom 1995-2003, LCDP grew rapidly, increasing its budget from $800,000 to $4.6 million. During this period, LCDP also began accepting reimbursements from Medicaid, which meant it was no longer a free clinic. This period also saw the creation of the interpreter services program, a Social Services Department which provided patients with case managers, and the launch of an HIV/AIDS prevention program.\n\nIn 2000, LCDP received a large grant from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, which allowed its mental health department to hire full-time therapists for the first time.\n\nIn 2007, Romagoza stepped down after 20 years and returned to El Salvador to continue his medical outreach there. Enrique Cobham served as Interim Executive Director until 2009, when Alicia Wilson was appointed as Executive Director. Wilson, who was development director before her appointment as executive director, started at LCDP in 1999 as a case manager. After her appointment as Executive Director, she started \"¡La Clínica Adelante!\", an ambitious agenda to grow LCDP's patient programs as well as its resources.\n\nIn 2007, LCDP became a Federally Qualified Health Center and implemented a sliding-scale payment system, which ended its tenure as a \"free-clinic\". LCDP currently accepts some forms of private insurance, Medicare, Medicaid and DC alliance.\n\nIn 2007, LCDP served 7,500 clients with over 55,000 health services.\n\nCurrently, LCDP has a staff of around 115 employees and is located across 5 different sites in Washington DC and Prince George's County, Maryland. \n\nLCDP patient services are divided into four different areas. They are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22061759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22061759", "title": "Lake Lapovac", "text": "Lake Lapovac\n\nLake Lapovac is an accumulation lake located between Našice and Markovac Našički, in Croatia.\n\n"}
{"id": "46655089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46655089", "title": "List of bacterial vaginosis microbiota", "text": "List of bacterial vaginosis microbiota\n\nBacterial vaginosis is caused by an imbalance of the naturally occurring bacteria in the vagina. The normally predominant species of \"Lactobacilli\" are markedly reduced. This is the list of organisms that are found in the vagina that are associated with bacterial vaginosis, an infectious disease of the vagina caused by excessive growth of specific bacteria. The census and relationships among the microbiota are altered in BV resulting in a complex bacterial milieu. Some species have been identified relatively recently. Having infections with the listed pathogens increases the risk of acquiring other sexually transmitted infections including HIV/AIDS.\n\n"}
{"id": "32952670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32952670", "title": "List of healthcare occupations", "text": "List of healthcare occupations\n\nA listing of healthcare professions by medical discipline. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55923123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55923123", "title": "List of women killed fighting for human rights", "text": "List of women killed fighting for human rights\n\nThis is a list of notable women, either famous themselves or closely associated with someone well known, who were killed fighting for human rights.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55672254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55672254", "title": "María Luisa Ávila Agüero", "text": "María Luisa Ávila Agüero\n\nMaría Luisa Ávila Agüero (born January 30, 1961) is a Costa Rican pediatric infectious disease specialist who was during the administrations of Óscar Arias Sánchez (2006–2010) and Laura Chinchilla Miranda (2010–2014).\n\nThe daughter of Claudio Ávila Quirós and Evelia Agüero Garro, María Luisa Ávila Agüero studied at the Escuela República de Paraguay and the Colegio Anastasio Alfaro. She graduated as a pediatrician from the University of Costa Rica and specialized in infectious disease. She became the Chief of Infectious Disease at the National Children's Hospital. In 2006, President Óscar Arias Sánchez appointed her Minister of Public Health, and in the following administration, Laura Chinchilla Miranda retained her in the post.\n\nThrough the publication of Executive Decree No. 34510-S \"Organic Regulation of the Ministry of Health\", a new institutional structure and development of the organizational model was implemented.\n\nIn July 2008, through the Executive Decree, the Costa Rica Solid Waste Plan was made official. In 2009, the country achieved the lowest infant mortality rate in its history, ranking third in Latin America, behind only Chile and Cuba.\n\nThe basic vaccination scheme for the entire population was extended, through the incorporation of four new vaccines for children: chickenpox, pneumococcus, pertussis, and rotavirus. In April 2010, Law 8809 was passed, creating the and providing it with an organizational and managerial structure, as well as resources to be able to advance the coverage of comprehensive care for the country's children.\n\nÁvila resumed the program of vector-borne disease control, giving special emphasis to the fight against malaria, which had been abandoned by previous administrations and left in the hands of local levels of the Ministry of Health. Thanks to Dr. Ávila's management, Matina's Area of Health team was able to obtain support to control the increasing incidence of malaria which had been taking place in that canton of Limón since the early 2000s, and with that, avoid its spread to the rest of the country's low areas.\n\nAt the end of the administration in 2010, Costa Rica reported its lowest incidence of dengue fever in nine years, and mortality from hemorrhagic dengue remained at 0.\n\nAt the end of July 2009, at the Ministry's request, the Catholic Church canceled the pilgrimage of the faithful to the city of Cartago for the August 2 festival at the Basilica of Our Lady of the Angels, due to the H1N1 flu pandemic.\n\nIn February 2010, the Ministry's audit questioned a series of agreements and contracts that it had made with the University of Costa Rica (UCR) to implement an organizational development process at the institution, for a sum of close to 900 million colones (approximately US$1.5 million).\n\nOn March 20, 2010, Ávila was part of a group of five ministers – together with Leonardo Garnier (Education), (Planning), Marco Vinicio Ruiz (Foreign Trade), and María Elena Carballo – to ask President Arias Sánchez to promote Bill 16.390 on \"civil unions between people of the same sex\".\n\nAt the beginning of the Chinchilla Miranda administration, due to a lack of foresight and administrative problems at the Ministry of Public Health, a total of 135,000 children and mothers in poverty did not receive milk normally provided by the government. This caused Ávila to be called to appear before the Legislative Assembly, where some confrontations took place.\n\nIn June 2010, members of the PAC and PUSC filed a motion of censure against the Minister of Public Health for friction created after she ordered the closure of 40 offices in the Legislative Assembly's facilities that did not meet appropriate conditions.\n\nMaría Luisa Ávila presented her resignation from the Ministry of Public Health in July 2011 for differences with President Laura Chinchilla on the intervention process to seek solutions to various problems in the Department of Social Security. The resignation became effective on September 1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15240509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15240509", "title": "Medinfar", "text": "Medinfar\n\nMedinfar is a Portuguese pharmaceutical company headquartered in Lisbon. It was founded in 1970.\nMedinfar has R&D, Production, Distribution, Marketing and Sales departments, and besides its own brands it markets licensed products in partnerships with several top international pharmaceutical companies.\n\nThe company has a wide range of products from Prescription Medicines to Generics, OTC/Consumer Health products and veterinary products. Medinfar promotes products in several therapeutic areas as General Practice, Cardiology, Gastroenterology, Respiratory and Dermatology. Medinfar is the Number 1 Portuguese Company in Dermatology and in Consumer Health.\n\nIn 2001, with the acquisition of the contract manufacturing unit, Farmalabor, in Condeixa (Portugal center region), Medinfar increased its productive capacity. This unit has an area of 47,000 m2.\n\n\n\n- Medinfar Farma – Prescription Medicines Marketing & Sales. Main therapeutic areas: Respiratory, Dermatology and Cardiology.\n\n- GP – Genéricos Portugueses – Marketing & Sales of Generic Drugs. Main therapeutic areas: Neurology, Psychiatry, Cardiovascular, Osteoporosis and Urology.\n\n- Medinfar Consumer Health – Promotion and commercialization of non-prescription medicines and other health products. Main therapeutic areas: Cough & Cold, GERD & Heartburn, Antiviral, Asthenia and Vitamins.\n\n\n- Farmalabor – contract manufacturing unit located in Condeixa, Portugal center region. Farmalabor is certified in accordance with Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and cGMP, GLP, ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001. Farmalabor has more than 40 national and international clients and manufactures solid forms (tablets, coated tablets, capsules, pellets, granules, sachets, suppositories) semi-solid forms (creams, ointments) and liquid forms (solutions, suspensions, syrups).\n\n\n- Medinfar Sorológico – Veterinaty drugs, devices and Herd vaccines. Main therapeutic areas and products: Anesthetics, Antibiotics, fluid therapy, Multivitamin & Iron and Shampoos.\n\n\n- Cytothera – First company in Europe processing and cryopreserving umbilical cord tissue stem cells.\n\nAs a result of its globalization challenge, Medinfar Group is present in more than 40 countries around the world, through its affiliate in Morocco and distributors throughout Europe, FWA, PALOP, Middle East and Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1723432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1723432", "title": "Misuse of Drugs Act (Belize)", "text": "Misuse of Drugs Act (Belize)\n\nThe Misuse of Drugs Act is a national drug control law of Belize that divides drugs into three classes. There does not seem to be any mechanism for adding, removing, or transferring drugs between classes without amending the statute. Like the Misuse of Drugs Acts of other nations, this statute is designed to implement the provisions of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and its supplementary drug control treaties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "674639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=674639", "title": "Neophobia", "text": "Neophobia\n\nNeophobia is the fear of anything new, especially a persistent and abnormal fear. In its milder form, it can manifest as the unwillingness to try new things or break from routine. In the context of children the term is generally used to indicate a tendency to reject unknown or novel foods. Food neophobia, as it may be referred to, is an important concern in pediatric psychology.\n\nIn biomedical research, neophobia is often associated with the study of taste.\n\nThe word \"neophobia\" comes from the Greek νέος, \"neos\", meaning \"new, young\", and φόβος, \"phobos\", for \"fear\". \"Cainophobia\" comes from the Greek καινός, \"kainos\", meaning \"new, fresh\". Alternative terms for neophobia include metathesiophobia, prosophobia, cainotophobia (or cainophobia), and kainophobia (or kainolophobia).\n\nNorway rats and house mice are thought to have evolved increased levels of neophobia as they became commensal with humans because humans were routinely devising new methods (e.g., mousetraps) to eradicate them.\n\nNeophobia is also a common finding in aging animals, although apathy could also explain, or contribute to explain, the lack of exploratory drive systematically observed in aging. Researchers argued that the lack of exploratory drive was likely due neurophysiologically to the dysfunction of neural pathways connected to the prefrontal cortex observed during aging.\n\nRobert Anton Wilson theorized in his book \"Prometheus Rising\" that neophobia is instinctual in people after they begin to raise children. Wilson's views on neophobia are mostly negative, believing that it is the reason human culture and ideas do not advance as quickly as our technology. His model includes an idea from Thomas Kuhn's \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\", which is that new ideas, however well proven and evident, are implemented only when the generations who consider them \"new\" die and are replaced by generations who consider the ideas accepted and old.\n\nFood neophobia in humans has been described as the fear of eating new or unfamiliar foods. It differs from selective eating disorder. Food neophobia is particularly common in toddlers and young children. It is often related to an individual’s level of sensation-seeking, meaning a person's willingness to try new things and take risks. Not only do people with high food neophobia resist trying new food, they also rate new foods that they do try as lower than neophilics.\n\nIt is very typical for people to generally have a fear of new things and to prefer things that are familiar and common. Most people experience food neophobia to a certain extent, though some people are more neophobic than others. A measure of individual differences in food neophobia is the Food Neophobia Scale (FNS), which consists of a 10-item survey that requires self-reported responses on a seven-point Likert scale. There is also a separate scale geared towards children called the Food Neophobia Scale for Children (FNSC), in which the parents actually do the reporting for the survey.\n\nIn animals it has been shown that food neophobia is a fear of novelty lasting only a short duration (minutes at most), which is distinct form dietary conservatism, the prolonged refusal to add a novel food to the diet, which can last many days or even years. Dietary conservatism has never yet been demonstrated in humans, although the genetically influenced behaviour of \"fussy eating\" in children resembles the behaviour seen in animals. \n\nFood neophobia relates to the omnivore's dilemma, a phenomenon that explains the choice that omnivores, and humans in particular, have between eating a new food and risking danger or avoiding it and potentially missing out on a valuable food source. Having at least some degree of food neophobia has been noted to be evolutionarily advantageous as it can help people to avoid eating potentially poisonous foods.\n\nGenetics seem to play a role in both food neophobia and general neophobia. Research shows that about two-thirds of the variation in food neophobia is due to genetics. A study done on twin pairs showed an even higher correlation, indicating that genetics does play a factor in food neophobia.\n\nPsychosocial factors can also increase a child's chances of developing food neophobia. Young children carefully watch parental food preferences, and this may produce neophobic tendencies with regard to eating if parents tend to avoid some foods.\n\nAnother cause includes being more sensitive than average to bitter tastes, which may be associated with a significant history of middle ear infection or an increased perception of bitter foods, known as a supertaster.\n\nSometimes food neophobia is more directly caused by an environmental occurrence. For example, with poison-induced neophobia, a food-poisoning experience can lead to people not only avoiding the flavor(s) they associate with creating their illness but also avoiding all novel flavors during the period directly following the poisoning experience. This can be seen as the body’s attempt to prevent any new and risky food items from entering the body.\n\nBesides food poisoning, food neophobia also arises from the person associating a negative experience with new foods, for example suffering from gastroenteritis or other gastrointestinal illnesses after eating undercooked food.\n\nAnother environmental factor influencing levels of food neophobia is the current arousal level of the individual. Trying a new food is an arousing experience, and if the person prefers to maintain a lower arousal level in general, then he or she might avoid new foods as a method of managing his or her current arousal level. Also, if people are currently experiencing situations with a lot of novelty and are therefore more aroused, they might be reluctant to try new foods as doing so would increase their arousal level to an uncomfortable level. This example can help explain why Americans visiting a foreign country might be less likely to try a new food item and instead gravitate towards the familiar McDonald’s food.\n\nSome efforts to address this situation, such as pressuring the child to eat a disliked food or threatening punishment for not eating it, tend to exacerbate the problem.\n\nEffective solutions include offering non-food rewards, such as a small sticker, for tasting a new or disliked food, and for parents to model the behavior they want to see by cheerfully eating the new or disliked foods in front of the children.\n\nExposing someone to a new food increases the chances of liking that food item. However, it is not enough to merely look at a new food. Novel food must be repeatedly tasted in order to increase preference for eating it. It can take as many as 15 tries of a novel food item before a child accepts it. There also appears to be a critical period for lowering later food neophobia in children during the weaning process. The variety of solid foods first exposed to children can lower later food refusal. Some researchers believe that even the food variety of a nursing mother and the consequent variety of flavors in her breastmilk can lead to greater acceptance of novel food items later on in life. Food neophobia does tend to naturally decrease as people age.\n\n"}
{"id": "10823733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10823733", "title": "Nursing Association of Nepal", "text": "Nursing Association of Nepal\n\nThe Nursing Association of Nepal is the national governing body of nurses in Nepal. The central office is located in Kathmandu. It is a member of the International Council of Nurses.\n\n"}
{"id": "21089218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21089218", "title": "Nursing in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Nursing in the Republic of Ireland\n\nNursing is self-regulated in Ireland. The regulatory body is An Bord Altranais (The Nursing Board). The board was established under the 1950 Nurses Act and currently operates under the 1985 Nurses Act. There are currently over 82,000 nurses registered by An Bord Altranais of which over 65,000 are on the active register ABA Statistics 2006.\n\nThere are seven divisions of the register; general, psychiatric, children's, intellectual disability, midwifery, public health and tutor.\n\nSignificant changes have occurred in Irish nursing since the publication of Report of The Commission on Nursing, A blueprint for the future.\n\nPre-registration nurse education is university and college based. All pre-registration programmes are at degree level (NQAI level 8). Nurse registration education programmes are governed An Bord Altranais Requirements & Standards.\n\nSignificant developments have occurred in post registration nurse education with a variety of programs available to nurses to support their practice and develop their career.\n\n"}
{"id": "6130955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6130955", "title": "Perinatal assistant", "text": "Perinatal assistant\n\nPerinatal assistants are support professionals for the childbearing year. The services of a Perinatal Assistant includes a combination of doula services, childbirth education, postpartum support and breastfeeding support.\n\nThe training of a Perinatal Assistant includes a minimum of ten months instruction, including anatomy and physiology, childbirth physiology, labour support, breastfeeding management, postpartum support, education and teaching skills, a thesis and a final exam. This is a Diploma or Associate Degree program offered through the Global birth institute.\n\nAlternatively, Perinatal Assistants may hold multiple certifications including: birth doula, postpartum doula, lactation educator, lactation counselor, childbirth educator, placenta encapsulator and other birth, postpartum and breastfeeding certifications through various certifying organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "130496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130496", "title": "Picher, Oklahoma", "text": "Picher, Oklahoma\n\nPicher is a ghost town and former city in Ottawa County, Oklahoma, United States. This was a major national center of lead and zinc mining at the heart of the Tri-State Mining District.\n\nMore than a century of unrestricted subsurface excavation dangerously undermined most of Picher's town buildings and left giant piles of toxic metal-contaminated mine tailings (known as chat) heaped throughout the area. The discovery of the cave-in risks, groundwater contamination, and health effects associated with the chat piles and subsurface shafts resulted in the site being included in 1980 in the Tar Creek Superfund Site by the US Environmental Protection Agency. The state collaborated on mitigation and remediation measures, but a 1996 study found that 34% of the children in Picher suffered from lead poisoning due to these environmental effects, which could result in lifelong neurological problems. Eventually the EPA and the state of Oklahoma agreed to a mandatory evacuation and buyout of the entire township. The similarly contaminated satellite towns of Treece, Kansas and Cardin, Oklahoma were included in the Tar Creek Superfund site.\n\nA 2006 Army Corps of Engineers study showed 86% of Picher's buildings (including the town school) were badly undermined and subject to collapse at any time. The destruction of 150 homes by an EF4 tornado in May 2008 accelerated the exodus. On September 1, 2009, the state of Oklahoma officially dis-incorporated the city of Picher, which ceased official operations on that day. The population plummeted from 1,640 at the 2000 census to 20 at the 2010 census. As of January 2011, only six homes and one business remain, their owners having refused to leave at any price. Except for some historic structures, the rest of the town's buildings were scheduled to be demolished by the end of the year. One of the last buildings, which had housed the former Picher mining museum was destroyed by arson in April 2015. (However, its historical archives and artifacts had already been shipped elsewhere by that point.)\n\nPicher is among a small number of locations in the world (such as Gilman, Colorado; Centralia, Pennsylvania; and Wittenoom, Western Australia) to be evacuated and declared uninhabitable due to environmental and health damage caused by the mines the town once serviced.\n\nThe closest towns to Picher, other than nearby Cardin, Treece, and Douthat, are Commerce, Quapaw (the headquarters of the nation by that name), and Miami, Oklahoma.\n\nIn 1913, as the Tri-State district expanded, lead and zinc ore were discovered on Harry Crawfish's claim and mining began. A townsite developed overnight around the new workings and was named Picher in honor of O. S. Picher, owner of Picher Lead Company. The city was incorporated in 1918, and by 1920, Picher had a population of 9,726. Peak population occurred in 1926 with 14,252 residents and was followed by a gradual decline due to the decrease in mining activity, leaving Picher with only 2,553 by 1960.\n\nThe Picher area became the most productive lead-zinc mining field in the Tri-State district, producing over $20 billion worth of ore between 1917 and 1947. More than fifty percent of the lead and zinc metal used during World War I were produced by the Picher district. At its peak more than 14,000 miners worked the mines and another 4,000 worked in mining services. Many workers commuted by an extensive trolley system from as far away as Joplin and Carthage, Missouri. Mining ceased in 1967 and water pumping from the mines ceased. The contaminated water from some 14,000 abandoned mine shafts, 70 million tons of mine tailings, and 36 million tons of mill sand and sludge remained as a huge environmental cleanup problem. As a result of national legislation to identify and remediate such environmentally hazardous sites, in 1980 the area was designated as part of the Tar Creek Superfund site.\nWhile some remediation took place in the following quarter century, contamination and other environmental hazards were found to be so severe that the government decided to close Picher and relocate its residents, as reported on April 24, 2006, by Reuters. Due in large part to the removal of large amounts of subsurface material during mining operations, many of the city's structures have been deemed in imminent danger of caving in.\n\nThe city's pharmacist, Gary Linderman, was featured in the May 28, 2007, issue of \"People\" magazine in the \"Heroes Among Us\" article: \"Prescription for Kindness\". He vowed to stay as long as there was anyone left who needed him and to be the last one out of the city. Linderman, the only remaining resident of Picher, died on June 6, 2015, at age 60 after a sudden illness.\n\nOn May 10, 2008, Picher was struck by an EF4 tornado. There were eight confirmed deaths, possibly including one child, and many other people injured. The tornado first touched down near the Kansas–Oklahoma border in Oklahoma southwest of Chetopa, Kansas, and tracked eastward. It struck Picher, causing extensive damage to 20 blocks of the city, with houses and businesses destroyed or flattened. The damage in Picher was rated at \"EF4\". At least 150 people were injured in Picher alone. The tornado continued eastward, passing just north of Quapaw and Peoria before crossing Interstate 44 into Missouri. Given the existing plan to vacate the city, the federal government decided against aid to rebuild homes, and the buyouts continued as previously scheduled, with people being assisted in relocation.\n\nOklahoma Governor Brad Henry sent National Guard troops as well as emergency personnel to assist the hardest hit area in Picher. Loss of power from the tornado forced the city to go on a boiled water notice. Staff from the Oklahoma Rural Water Association arrived to assist, since the utility's testing equipment was destroyed by the storm. With an emergency generator to supply power, rural water staff had the system running normally only two days after the tornado struck.\n\nIn April 2009, residents voted 55–6 to dissolve the Picher-Cardin school district; it graduated its final class of 11 in May. By 2009 the district's enrollment had dropped to a total of 49 students from approximately 343 students years prior. Remaining students were assigned to attend Commerce and Quapaw school districts. \nThe city's post office was scheduled to close in July 2009, and the city ceased operations as a municipality on September 1, 2009. By June 29, 2009, all of the residents had been given federal checks to enable them to relocate from Picher permanently. The city is considered to be too toxic to be habitable. On the last day, all the final residents met at the school auditorium to say goodbye. As of November 2010, it was reported that Picher still had \"one business and six occupied houses.\"\n\nThe government carried out a similar relocation program for residents of the adjacent city of Treece, Kansas. On October 29, 2009, Congress voted to allow the EPA to fund the relocation of the remaining citizens of Treece.\n\nStarting in January 2011, almost all remaining commercial structures were scheduled to be demolished. Gary Linderman, owner of the Old Miner's Pharmacy, said he would stay until the last resident left. By March 2014, standing abandoned buildings included the Picher-Cardin High School building, a Christian church, the mining museum, and a handful of mercantile buildings, as well as numerous abandoned houses.\n\nThe municipality of Picher was officially dissolved on November 26, 2013.\n\nThe Picher Mining Field Museum, which had been housed in the former Tri-State Zinc and Lead Ore Producers Association building, was destroyed by arson in April 2015. The museum archives had previously been sent to Pittsburg State University, and other artifacts had been sent to the Baxter Springs, Kansas Heritage Center and Museum. In March 2017 the often-photographed Christian church, which was originally a one-room schoolhouse, was also destroyed by fire.\n\nThe final resident, Gary Linderman, owner of the Ole Miner Pharmacy, died on June 9, 2015, at the age of 60 from a sudden illness, which officially made Picher a ghost town and brought its population to 0.\n\nPicher is located at (36.982824, -94.832777). It is north of Miami, the county seat. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city had a total area of , all of it land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 1,640 people, 621 households, and 417 families residing in the city. The population density was 734.0 people per square mile (283.9/km²). There were 708 housing units at an average density of 316.9 per square mile (122.6/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 77.13% White, 13.78% Native American, 0.18% Pacific Islander, 0.12% Asian, 0.06% from other races, and 8.72% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.40% of the population.\n\nThere were 621 households out of which 30.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 50.6% were married couples living together, 12.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 32.7% were non-families. 29.1% of all households were made up of individuals and 14.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.58 and the average family size was 3.20.\n\nIn the city the population was spread out with 27.1% under the age of 18, 9.1% from 18 to 24, 24.0% from 25 to 44, 23.5% from 45 to 64, and 16.2% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 37 years. For every 100 females, there were 95.2 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 90.0 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the city was $19,722, and the median income for a family was $25,950. Males had a median income of $22,321 versus $15,947 for females. The per capita income for the city was $10,938. About 21.1% of families and 25.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 27.4% of those under age 18 and 30.9% of those age 65 or over.\n\nPicher was featured in the PBS Independent Lens film \"The Creek Runs Red,\" which discussed the connection of the people and their desire to leave or stay in the city. Picher was also featured in the Jump the Fence Productions film titled \"Tar Creek\" (2009). The film was written, directed, and narrated by Matt Myers.\n\nPicher was featured in an episode of \"\" on the History Channel. The aforementioned tornado was also featured on an episode of the Weather Channel's \"Storm Stories\".\n\nPicher was also featured in the premiere episode of \"Forgotten Planet: Abandoned America\" on the Discovery Channel (along with Pripyat, Ukraine) in a story of two cities abandoned due to industrial disasters.\n\nIn April 2015, Picher was featured in a segment on the National Geographic Channel called \"The Watch\", in which one of a handful of holdouts still resides and watches over what is left of the town.\n\nIn April, 2018, travelling YouTube personalities Adam The Woo and Jacob The Carpetbagger drove through Picher during their joint tour of historic Route 66.\n\nPolice investigating the Welch, Oklahoma murders of Danny and Kathy Freemen and the kidnappings of Ashley Freeman and Laura Bible filed charges containing statements from numerous witnesses and alleged accomplices who stated they had heard rumors that Ashley Freeman and Laura Bible were in a pit or mineshaft in Picher, or had been threatened by Warren Philip Welch, lead suspect in the crimes, who told them they would \"end up in a pit in Picher like those two girls.\" Their bodies have never been found, though suspected accomplice Ronnie Dean Busick was arrested in April 2018 for his involvement in the crimes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44471149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44471149", "title": "Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes", "text": "Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes\n\nThe scientific community in United States and Europe are primarily concerned with the possible effect of electronic cigarette use on public health. There is concern among public health experts that e-cigarettes could renormalize smoking, weaken measures to control tobacco, and serve as a gateway for smoking among youth. The public health community is divided over whether to support e-cigarettes, because their safety and efficacy for quitting smoking is unclear. Many in the public health community acknowledge the potential for their quitting smoking and decreasing harm benefits, but there remains a concern over their long-term safety and potential for a new era of users to get addicted to nicotine and then tobacco. There is concern among tobacco control academics and advocates that prevalent universal vaping \"will bring its own distinct but as yet unknown health risks in the same way tobacco smoking did, as a result of chronic exposure\", among other things.\n\nMedical organizations differ in their views about the health implications of vaping. There is general agreement that e-cigarettes expose users to fewer toxicants than tobacco cigarettes. Some healthcare groups and policy makers have hesitated to recommend e-cigarettes for quitting smoking, because of limited evidence of effectiveness and safety. Some have advocated bans on e-cigarette sales and others have suggested that e-cigarettes may be regulated as tobacco products but with less nicotine content or be regulated as a medicinal product. A 2016 World Health Organization (WHO) report found that the scientific evidence for the effectiveness of vaping for quitting smoking is \"scant and of low certainty\". Healthcare organizations in the United Kingdom in 2015 have encouraged smokers to try e-cigarettes to help them quit smoking but they also encouraged users to quit tobacco entirely. In 2016, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) stated that \"Although ENDS [electronic nicotine delivery systems] may potentially provide cessation benefits to individual smokers, no ENDS have been approved as effective cessation aids.\"\n\nIn August 2016, a report produced by the World Health Organization (WHO) for the Conference of the Parties to the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, found \"there is not enough research to quantify the relative risk of ENDS/ENNDS over combustible products. Therefore, no specific figure about how much 'safer' the use of these products is compared to smoking can be given any scientific credibility at this time.\" In July 2014, a WHO report found there was not enough evidence to determine if electronic cigarettes can help people quit smoking and made various recommendations as to a suitable regulatory framework for them. Smokers should be encouraged to use approved methods for help with quitting, but the same report also noted that experts indicate that e-cigarettes may have a role in helping some smokers who have failed to quit by other means. The report stated that \"Smokers will obtain the maximum health benefit if they completely quit both tobacco and nicotine use.\"\n\nIn August 2014, the Forum of International Respiratory Societies, which represents multiple pulmonary associated medical associations in the United States, Latin America, Africa, Europe, and Asia, released a statement in which they argued that e-cigarettes have not been demonstrated to be safe and their benefits as a smoking cessation tool or in harm reduction has not been adequately studied. They recommended banning their use, or regulation as medicines or tobacco products if not banned, until adequate studies are performed. In May 2018, the Forum of International Respiratory Societies released a position statement, stating \"ENDS are devices that deliver aerosols of nicotine and other volatile chemicals to the lung. Their use has rapidly escalated among youths and they are now the most commonly used tobacco product among adolescents. Initiation of electronic cigarette use is strongly associated with the subsequent initiation of combustible tobacco product use among adolescents.\"\n\nIn January 2014, the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease released a statement asserting that the benefits and safety of e-cigarettes have not been scientifically proven. The statement highlighted concerns with regards to \"re-normalization\" of smoking behavior and exposure of third parties to possibly dangerous emissions from e-cigarettes, and strongly supported regulation of electronic cigarettes, preferably as medicines.\n\nThe World Lung Foundation (now known as Vital Strategies) applauded the 2014 WHO report's recommendation for tighter regulation of e-cigarettes due to concerns about the safety of e-cigarettes and the possible increased nicotine or tobacco addiction among youth.\n\nIn October 2012, the World Medical Association released a statement which stated, \"Due to the lack of rigorous chemical and animal studies, as well as clinical trials on commercially available e-cigarettes, neither their value as therapeutic aids for smoking cessation nor their safety as cigarette replacements is established. Lack of product testing does not permit the conclusion that e-cigarettes do not produce any harmful products even if they produce fewer dangerous substances than conventional cigarettes.\"\n\nThe Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) of Australia has stated that, \"the quality and safety of electronic cigarettes is not known\" due to the lack of studies, unlike conventional nicotine replacement therapies, and lists possible risks involved with buying or using electronic cigarettes. They also state, \"The Australian Government is concerned about the use of electronic cigarettes in Australia. The impact of wide scale use of these devices on tobacco use is not known, and the outcome in the community could be harmful.\"\n\nA 2014 practice guideline by NPS MedicineWise states, \"While use of e-cigarettes may be safer than smoking tobacco, so far there is limited evidence to support their effectiveness as aids in smoking cessation. There are also safety issues to consider and the long-term effects are unknown.\" This guideline recommends physicians steer patients away from e-cigarettes to \"more established\" methods of smoking cessation until safety and efficacy are established.\n\nThe Cancer Council Australia and Heart Foundation released a joint position statement that stated, \"The limited evidence available points to a risk that widespread electronic cigarette use could undo the decades of public policy work in Australia that has reduced the appeal of cigarette use in children\" and the \"short and long term health effects of electronic cigarette use remain unknown.\" They also consider claims that e-cigarettes can help quit smoking as \"unsubstantiated\" and urge \"extreme caution on electronic cigarettes\" while urging significant regulations of both nicotinic and non-nicotinic electronic cigarettes.\n\nHealth Canada states in relation to the Tobacco and Vaping Products Act which became law on May 23, 2018 that \"vaping is less harmful than smoking. Many of the toxic and cancer-causing chemicals in tobacco and the tobacco smoke form when tobacco is burned.\" They further state that \"vaping products and e-cigarettes deliver nicotine in a less harmful way than smoking, and may reduce health risks for smokers\".\n\nThe Canadian Cancer Society has concluded, e-cigarettes \"have not been scientifically proven to help people quit\" smoking tobacco.\n\nThe Canadian Heart and Stroke Foundation has stated, \"While early studies show some potential benefits, the effectiveness of e-cigarettes with nicotine as a smoking cessation device is not fully conclusive,\" and expressed concerns about the lack of long term studies with regard to health effects to the user as well as second hand exposure. They also note public health officials' concerns about renormalizing smoking behavior undermining current tobacco control as well as being a gateway for nicotine addiction and tobacco abuse.\n\nThe German Cancer Research Center in Germany released a report in 2013 stating that e-cigarettes cannot be considered safe, in part due to technical flaws that have been found as well as unreliable information about product quality, including information provided by manufacturers. This report concluded the fluids and aerosols in e-cigarettes can contain dangerous substances and can cause short term airway irritation and may be harmful in long term use, and the effects on second hand exposure causing harm cannot be ruled out. The report also concluded that the e-cigarettes, whether it contains nicotine or not, can alleviate cravings and withdrawal symptoms, but their ability to help quit smoking has not been proven.\n\nThe Ministry of Health of New Zealand has stated, \"There is not enough evidence to be able to recommend e-cigarettes as an aid to quit smoking\" and recommends more established treatments for smoking cessation. They also point interested readers to the 2014 WHO statement for further information.\n\nThe Cancer Society of New Zealand released a position statement which states, \"Currently, there is limited evidence of the safety of e-cigarettes or their suitability as a smoking cessation aid\" and \"Before they are widely promoted, evidence is needed to ensure that e-cigarettes are a safe harm reduction alternative to tobacco smoking, that they are a safe and effective cessation aid, that they don’t undermine motivation to quit, and that they don’t act as a gateway to nicotine addiction for young people.\"\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration of the Philippines released a statement saying that there has been little evidence published about the health effects of electronic cigarettes, including whether they help quit smoking. The statement concluded that the available evidence does not support those who advocate for their use either as tools to help quit smoking or for harm reduction.\n\nThe Philippine Medical Association has also taken a strong position against the use of electronic cigarettes, citing safety concerns.\n\nThe Spanish Society of Pneumonology and Thoracic Surgery (SEPAR) released a position statement which states that the substances found in aerosol from e-cigarettes have not been demonstrated to be safe, and a number of chemicals which are carcinogens and can damage the lung have been found, though usually in concentrations smaller than conventional cigarettes. Studies done to date have been small in size and have had significant methodological flaws, making drawing any definitive conclusions about their ability to aid in smoking cessation impossible. The report concluded that \"indiscriminate use\" of e-cigarettes is a public health risk and they may encourage young people to start smoking, and therefore advocate regulation of e-cigarettes as a medicine and encourage smoking cessation through other more established means.\n\nIn a 2015 joint statement, Public Health England and twelve other UK medical bodies concluded \"e-cigarettes are significantly less harmful than smoking.\" A 2015 Public Health England report stated that e-cigarettes are estimated to be 95% less harmful than smoking. In a policy statement released with the report, Public Health England said that \"PHE looks forward to the arrival on the market of a choice of medicinally regulated products that can be made available to smokers by the NHS on prescription.\"\n\nIn 2015 the English National Health Service advice page on smoking said \"E-cigarettes are not risk free, but on current evidence they carry a fraction of the risk of smoked tobacco. As well as nicotine, e-cigarette liquid and vapour can contain toxic substances, although these are either at lower levels than seen in cigarette smoke or at levels not associated with health risk. The current best estimate is that e-cigarette use carries only around 5% of the risk of smoking. E-cigarettes are still fairly new and we won’t have a full picture on their safety until they have been in use for many years, so it will be important to continue to monitor the evidence as it develops.\" The UK National Health Service concluded in November 2014, \"While e-cigarettes may be safer than conventional cigarettes, we don’t yet know the long-term effects of vaping on the body. There are clinical trials in progress to test the quality, safety and effectiveness of e-cigarettes, but until these are complete, the government can’t give any advice on them or recommend their use.\" In December 2015, the BBC reported that five Scottish NHS boards were considering reviewing their ban on e-cigarette use on hospital grounds, after 'new evidence showed they can help smokers quit'.\n\nIn 2014 the UK's National Centre for Smoking Cessation and Training, which provides training and accreditation to NHS \"stop smoking practitioners\", issued a new guideline downplaying concerns and stating that smoking cessation professionals should support e-cigarette users, though they remain unable to prescribe e-cigarettes.\n\nA 2015 policy statement by the UK's Faculty of Public Health recognizes that there are potential benefits from the use of e-cigarettes but raises concerns that their effectiveness is not yet proven, that e-cigarettes are less effective than nicotine replacement therapy, concerns regarding dual usage of e-cigarettes and tobacco, concerns regarding advertising and young people and finally concerns regarding e-cigarettes undermining \"decades of lobbying by public health related organisations\" that led to the \"smoking ban and tobacco control legislation\".\n\nThe British Medical Association (BMA) stated in 2016 for e-cigarettes to be banned in public places such as bars, cafes, restaurants, museums and schools over concern for second-hand vapor. The BMA reported in 2013 that there was a possibility for smoking cessation benefits, but had concerns that e-cigarettes are less regulated than nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), and that there was no peer reviewed evidence concerning their safety or efficacy.\n\nIn May 2014, Cancer Research UK released a statement including, \"Electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) are almost certainly much safer than tobacco cigarettes and may help smokers to cut down or quit smoking. We support the use of high quality e-cigarettes because we believe that they have significant potential to help smokers who aren't otherwise ready or able to quit smoking by providing them with much safer alternatives to smoked tobacco. It is important that regulation does not stifle the development of this market nor make accessing these products by smokers more difficult. However, the current safeguards are insufficient to ensure that these products are as safe as nicotine replacement therapy and to ensure that they are not marketed to non-smokers and children.\"\n\nA National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guideline in 2013 recommended licensed nicotine replacement therapy as part of a program for harm reduction, but did not recommend e-cigarettes as they are unregulated.\n\nThe Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) stated in 2016 that \"although the long-term safety profile of EC use is still to be evaluated, it is accepted that vaping is an order of magnitude safer than conventional tobacco.\" The RCGP recommended, among other things, that \"Where a patient wants to quit smoking, and has not succeeded with other options, GPs [general practitioners] should recommend and support the use of ENDS.\" In April 2016, the Royal College of Physicians released a statement recommending that e-cigarettes be offered to smokers of conventional cigarettes to encourage quitting, stating \"in the interests of public health it is important to promote the use of e-cigarettes\" as well as NRT and other non-tobacco nicotine products as a replacement to tobacco smoking.\n\nIn 2016, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) stated that \"Although ENDS [electronic nicotine delivery systems] may potentially provide cessation benefits to individual smokers, no ENDS have been approved as effective cessation aids.\" They also stated that \"Although ENDS likely do not deliver the same level of toxicants as cigarettes, studies show that there are dangers associated with ENDS use\". In 2014, the FDA concluded, \"E-cigarettes have not been fully studied, so consumers currently don’t know: the potential risks of e-cigarettes when used as intended, how much nicotine or other potentially harmful chemicals are being inhaled during use, or whether there are any benefits associated with using these products. Additionally, it is not known whether e-cigarettes may lead young people to try other tobacco products, including conventional cigarettes, which are known to cause disease and lead to premature death.\"\n\nIn 2015, the United States Preventive Services Task Force concluded there is insufficient evidence to recommend e-cigarettes for smoking cessation, and recommended clinicians instead recommend more proven smoking cessation aids.\n\nIn early 2015, Smokefree.gov, a website run by the Tobacco Control Research Branch of the National Cancer Institute to provide information to help quit smoking, did not recommend the use of e-cigarettes, saying \"The bottom line is that we just don’t know enough about e-cigs, so we don’t recommend that you use them\".\n\nIn late 2016, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) states that users of e-cigarettes are exposed to many different types of chemical compounds, very small particles, and hazardous metals. Chemicals emitted in e-cigarette aerosols can include carcinogens such as formaldehyde, polyaromatic hydrocarbons, as well as various organic compounds that are irritating to the lung. Among flavoring compounds emitted in some e-cigarette aerosols are 2,3-pentanedione and diacetyl, which NIOSH has linked to causing obliterative bronchiolitis, a devastating lung disease in workers. Additionally there is also a risk of burns following spontaneous combustion of the lithium battery in the device.\n\nIn 2010, the American Medical Association called for e-cigarettes to be subject to the same FDA regulations as tobacco and nicotine products. The Association extended this policy in 2014, and endorsed measures aimed at preventing marketing of e-cigarettes to minors.\n\nIn August 2014, the American Heart Association released a policy statement in which they noted that \"current evidence evaluating the efficacy of these products as a cessation aid is sparse, confined to 2 randomized controlled trials and 1 large cross-sectional study, anecdotal reports, and Internet-based surveys.\" The statement stated \"there is not yet enough evidence for clinicians to counsel their patients who are using combustible tobacco products to use e-cigarettes as a primary cessation aid.\" It also noted that \"E-cigarettes either do not contain or have lower levels of several tobacco-derived harmful and potentially harmful constituents compared with cigarettes and smokeless tobacco. In comparison with NRTs, e-cigarette use has increased at an unprecedented rate, which presents an opportunity for harm reduction if smokers use them as substitutes for cigarettes. However, although firm evidence is lacking, there are concerns that e-cigarette use and acceptance of e-cigarettes has the potential to renormalize smoking behavior, sustain dual use, and initiate or maintain nicotine addiction. Their use also could serve as a gateway to reinitiation of smoking by ex-smokers. Unregulated e-cigarette use also has the potential to erode gains in smoking cessation and smoke-free laws.\"\n\nAnother statement released that month by the American Lung Association argued that the FDA should begin its regulatory oversight of electronic cigarettes, because otherwise, \"there is no way for the public health, medical community or consumers to know what chemicals are contained in e-cigarettes or what the short and long term health implications might be.\"\n\nThe American Cancer Society supports every smoker using any way they choose who are contemplating trying to quit smoking and in 2018 they stated to use FDA regulated medicine that have a track record of effectively helping efforts to stop smoking. For some smokers who do not try to quit smoking cigarettes using FDA regulated medicine they recommend to choose the least unsafe tobacco product and they stated transitioning to only using e-cigarettes is better than smoking combustible ones. The American Cancer Society concluded in early 2014, \"Because the American Cancer Society doesn’t yet know whether e-cigarettes are safe and effective, we cannot recommend them to help people quit smoking. There are proven methods available to help people quit, including pure forms of inhalable nicotine as well as nasal sprays, gums, and patches.\"\n\nThe American Diabetes Association states \"e-cigarettes are not supported as an alternative to smoking or to facilitate smoking cessation.\"\n\nIn 2015, the American Association for Cancer Research and the American Society of Clinical Oncology released a statement noting that further research was needed regarding the regulation of electronic cigarettes. The statement also called on the FDA Center for Tobacco Products to regulate all e-cigarettes that meet the definition of tobacco products.\n\nIn October 2015, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends against e-cigarettes for quitting smoking and stated among adolescents, e-cigarette use is related with reduced quitting smoking. They also support increasing the legal age for sale of tobacco products including e-cigarettes to 21, since, according to the AAP, \"80% of smokers began smoking prior to age 18 while adolescence is a period in which people are particularly susceptible to the addictive nature of nicotine.\" In 2015, the American College of Physicians policy position statement recommendations included banning flavoring, taxation of tobacco products to encompass e-cigarettes, and regulations of emission standards associated with e-cigarettes.\n\nThe US National Association of County and City Health Officials stated in 2012, \"Currently, little scientific evidence exists to show that e-cigarettes are effective cessation devices\" and \"Further research is needed on the health risks of e-cigarettes, but available evidence suggests harmful effects. They recommend to local health departments to advocate for regulation as a tobacco product to the extent allowable by law.\n\nIn 2015 the California Department of Public Health issued a report that found e-cigarettes expose users and bystanders to harmful chemicals, there is no scientific evidence they help smokers quit, they are being heavily marketed, and teen use is growing rapidly.\n"}
{"id": "36130807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36130807", "title": "Pre-conception counseling in the United States", "text": "Pre-conception counseling in the United States\n\nPre-conception counseling in the United States allows for optimization of US prenatal care. \"Pre-conception counseling\" is a meeting with a health-care professional (generally a physician or midwife) by a woman \"before\" attempting to become pregnant. It generally includes a \"pre-conception risk assessment\" for any potential complications of pregnancy.\n\nObstacles to pre-conception counseling in the United States include:\n\nScreening and monitoring of women prior to conception is recommended to include the following:\n\nHowever, the overall lack of evidence precludes a recommendation for universal screening for thyroid disease in pregnancy.\n\nScreening for rubella susceptibility by history of vaccination or by serology is recommended in the US for all women of childbearing age at their first preconception counseling visit to reduce incidence of congenital rubella syndrome (CRS). It is recommended that all susceptible non-pregnant women of childbearing age should be offered rubella vaccination.\n\nImmunity status of varicella should be performed at the pre-conception counseling session, in order to prevent the occurrence of congenital varicella syndrome and other adverse effects of varicella in pregnancy. Generally, a person with a positive medical history of varicella infection can be considered immune. Among adults in the United States having a negative or uncertain history of varicella, approximately 85%-90% will be immune. Therefore, an effective method is that people with a negative or uncertain history of varicella infection have a serology to check antibody production before receiving the vaccine. The CDC recommends that all adults be immunized if seronegative.\n\nIt is recommended to screen for domestic violence at a preconception visit, because domestic violence during pregnancy a risk factor for miscarriage, late entry into prenatal care, stillbirth, premature labor and birth, fetal injury and low birth weight, and detection can avail for specific counseling and intervention.\n\nThere is evidence that direct interview screening result in a higher rate of reporting prenatal domestic abuse than a written, self-report questionnaire method.\n\nEducation of women intending to be pregnant is recommended to include:\n\nVaccination and other prophylaxis of women intending to become pregnant is recommended to include: \n"}
{"id": "43832486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43832486", "title": "Pride Center", "text": "Pride Center\n\nThe Pride Center is a non-profit GLBT community center located at 2040 North Dixie Highway, in Wilton Manors, Florida. It serves primarily Broward County and Fort Lauderdale, with some services provided in Palm Beach County. It hosts more than 60 regularly-meeting groups each month. Support, social and educational groups focus on women, seniors, youth, men, transgender, recovery, health, the arts, athletics, spirituality, games and more. It is also a major site for HIV testing and prevention, education and counseling, and also offers holistic and comprehensive support programs for persons living with HIV/AIDS.\n\nThe center has 30,000 square feet of office space, and is located on a six-acre site. It celebrated 20 years of service in 2013. AIDS memorabilia that later would be, after its founding, displayed in the World AIDS Museum and Educational Center were first exhibited here.\n"}
{"id": "59051090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59051090", "title": "Princess Alexandra Hospital, Anguilla", "text": "Princess Alexandra Hospital, Anguilla\n\nThe Princess Alexandra Hospital is a small hospital on Anguilla.\n\nIt has a pharmacy, wards and a dialysis section. \n\nIt suffered considerable storm damage as a result of Hurricane Irma, losing its roof, equipment and bed space. The British government and charitable donations have contributed towards the rebuilding program. Tim Foy says \"The United Kingdom government is committed to the full rehabilitation of the Princess Alexandra Hospital\". £4 million from the British Government is earmarked for the hospital.\n\nThe rebuilding programme is intended to include a computed tomography scanner and a new maternity wing, increasing the capacity from 4 to 8 patients. The maternity wing was opened in November 2018 by Blondel Cluff CBE, who is the Anguilla government’s representative in the United Kingdom and the Chief Executive Officer of the West India Committee that raised funds for the rebuilding. \n"}
{"id": "2463218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2463218", "title": "Ristra", "text": "Ristra\n\nA ristra () is an arrangement of drying chile pepper pods, garlic bulbs, or other vegetables for later consumption. In addition to its practical use, the ristra has come to be a trademark of decorative design in the state of New Mexico. Typically, large chiles such as New Mexico chiles and Anaheim peppers are used, although any kind of chile may be used to construct a ristra.\n\nGarlic can also be arranged into a ristra for drying and curing after the bulbs have matured and the leaves have died away.\n\n"}
{"id": "5584134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5584134", "title": "Safe bottle lamp", "text": "Safe bottle lamp\n\nThe Safe bottle lamp, called sudeepa or sudipa for \"good lamp\", is a safer kerosene lamp designed by Wijaya Godakumbura of Sri Lanka. The safety comes from heavier glass, a secure screw-on metal lid, and two flat sides which prevent it from rolling if knocked over.\n\nAs surgeon Dr. Godakumbura saw many burn cases caused by kerosene lamp fires. Over 1 million homes in Sri Lanka do not have electricity, and rely on kerosene lamps for illumination, often improvised lamps made from bottles. These tall lamps tip easily, and when they do, the wick holder often falls out and starts a sudden, intense fire. Often the fuel falls on a nearby person, setting them ablaze and resulting in severe burns, often fatal.\n\nIn 1992, Dr. Godakumbura set out to design a new lamp that was both safer, and inexpensive enough to be affordable by the impoverished Sri Lankans at risk for these fires. The resulting lamp is a small, flattened sphere, which resists tipping and rolling. It is made of thick glass to resist breaking, and has a screw-on metal cap that holds the wick in place and prevents spilling.\n\nIn 1993, with contributions from numerous sources, including Science Fiction writer and Sri Lanka resident Arthur C. Clarke, and the Canadian High Commission, the lamp was put into production.\n\nAvailable for a cost of less than US$0.25 each, over half a million of the new lamps have been sold, and Dr. Godakumbura hopes to continue producing the new lamps until use of improvised lamps drops to a small percentage of lamp use in Sri Lanka.\n\nHaving received a Rolex Award for Enterprise in 1998, Dr. Godakumbura established the Safe Bottle Lamp Foundation (SBLF), a non-profit organization. The Foundation is governed by a board of directors and employs two full-time staff .\n\nIn addition to the Rolex Award, the foundation and Dr. Godakumbura have received a range of other local and international awards and grants. Among these are a Lindbergh Foundation Grant and a BBC World Challenge Award. The project has been featured in many international publications such as TIME, Newsweek, Science and Nature, National Geographic and La Figaro.\n\nDr. Godakumbura has represented the foundation in many international conferences on burn and accident prevention as a speaker or as a participant. The foundation and the Sudeepa lamp have been promoted as a replicable solution for other developing countries where accidental burns due to unsafe lamps is prevalent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19402343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19402343", "title": "Scaar", "text": "Scaar\n\nSCAAR (Swedish Coronary Angiography and Angioplasty Register)\nThe SCAAR is a Swedish national registry that contains relevant medical data on consecutive patients from 29 hospitals in Sweden at which coronary angiography and PCI (percutaneous coronary interventions) are performed. The registry was established in 1989. It is sponsored by the National Board of Health and Welfare and is independent of funding from industry. The data technology was developed by, and is administered by the Uppsala Clinical Research Center (). Since 2001, SCAAR has been Internet-based, with recording of data online through a Web interface. Data are transferred in an encrypted format to a central server at the Uppsala Clinical Research Center. All consecutive patients undergoing coronary angiography or PCI in Sweden are registered in this database which provides a unique opportunity for prospective observational studies within the field of interventional cardiology.\n\n"}
{"id": "11899546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11899546", "title": "Sentebale", "text": "Sentebale\n\nSentebale is a registered charity.\n\nThe charity was founded in 2006 by Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex of the British Royal Family and Prince Seeiso of the Basotho Royal Family.\n\nPrince Harry met Prince Seeiso on his gap year in Lesotho and was moved to help vulnerable children and young people in the country. After ten years working in Lesotho, in November 2016, the charity launched operations in Botswana.\n\nSentebale means 'Forget me not' in Sesotho and the name was chosen \"as a memorial to the charity work of our own mothers, as well as a reminder to us all not to forget Lesotho or its children.\" (Prince Harry speaking at the Concert for Diana).\n\nLesotho has the 2nd highest rate of HIV in the world and there are over 37,000 children under 14 living with HIV. The country has 360,000 orphans and around 10% of all children are vulnerable.\n\nSentebale aims to combat these issues and works with vulnerable children and their communities, empowering them to reach their full potential. The charity is focused on community-led development which matches actual need.\n\nLesotho was 160/187 countries in the Human Development Index and described as having “low human development”. 43.2% of the population are living below the national poverty line. The country also came 108/187 for gender equality. \nImportantly, gender inequality in Lesotho does not follow the pattern of the majority of Sub-Saharan Africa. For example, males have lower literacy rates, and school attendance and completion rates. This is due in part to the traditional role of males in Basotho society. They are expected to spend their time herding livestock. This severely limits their access to education.\n\nLesotho has a population of just 1.8 million, yet it is estimated there are at least 360,000 orphans, and 13% of all children are vulnerable; their rights to survival and development are not being met. Life expectancy is on average just 41.2 years.\n\nThe country has the second highest rate of HIV/AIDS in the world. Knowledge about HIV prevention is also low. The two most common misconceptions on HIV/AIDS in Lesotho are that a person can become infected through mosquito bites or sharing food. Someone who has comprehensive knowledge of HIV is defined as someone who will \"in response to a prompted question, agree that people can reduce their chances of getting the AIDS virus by having sex with only one uninfected, faithful partner and by using condoms consistently; know that a healthy-looking person can have the AIDS virus; and know that HIV cannot be transmitted by mosquito bites or by sharing food with a person who has AIDS.\" In Lesotho, only 38% of women and 29% of men age 15-49 have comprehensive knowledge about HIV/AIDS. Among youth, this figure is 39% for women and 29% for men.\n\nSentebale focuses on supporting vulnerable children. The charity runs five key projects to enable communities to improve health, care and education.\n\n\n\nLesotho is a mountainous country, land-locked by South Africa. It has a land area of 30,300 square kilometers. Three quarters of the country is highland with a height more than 1,600m above sea level and a maximum height of 3,482m. There are mountain ranges in the east and running from north to south. In the centre of Lesotho the two largest rivers in Southern Africa, the Senqu and the Tugela have their source on a high plateau.\n\nIn the lowlands continuous cultivation and the use of manure for fuel has led to leaching of soil nutrients. Soil erosion is a serious issue in Lesotho due to increasing human and livestock population pressure and heavy rainfall. The country has also been affected by severe droughts. The climate is variable with temperatures commonly dropping below zero in the highlands and reaching highs of 32 degrees Celsius in the lowlands.\n\nIn recent years severe droughts followed by heavy rains have led to significant decreases in food production. The availability of the staple crop, maize, has dropped by 77% since 2011. This has led to severe food shortages. \nA UN emergency appeal in 2012 indicated that a third of the population are affected by a food crisis. In addition levels of anemia and stunted growth in children under-5 are well above emergency international thresholds.\n\nSentebale maintains a small office in the UK. The chief executive is UK-based, but all other operational staff are based in Lesotho and Botswana.\n\nCathy Ferrier was appointed as Sentebale’s Chief Executive in March 2012. Before joining Sentebale, Cathy was Oxfam’s Fundraising Director, responsible for raising over £100m a year from individuals in the UK. Cathy spent more than 25 years in buying and marketing roles for leading retailers, including WHSmith, the Walt Disney Company and the Burton Group.\n\nPhilip Nevill Green, former boss of United Utilities, was appointed as chairman in 2011.\n\nSentebale's Trustees are:\n\n\nThe charity's first accounts published in March 2008 showed that despite raising more than £1 million in the first 18 months of its operation, just £84,000 was handed over to projects in Lesotho. In the same period however, Sentebale spent £190,000 on salaries, £86,000 on a website, £26,000 on equipping its office in Maseru and £47,000 on work done before the charity was formally established. Sentebale's director in Lesotho, Harper Brown, had received a salary and benefits package worth between £90,000 and £100,000 per year.\n\nIn 2009 Lord Ashcroft, the Conservative Party deputy chairman, donated £250,000 to Sentebale to remedy financial difficulties at the charity.\nA new Chief Executive, Kedge Martin, joined in 2009. Before joining Sentebale Kedge Martin was the CEO of WellChild, a charity that provides care, support and research to long term, chronically sick children across the UK.\n\nThe 2010 report and accounts showed £2.089 million had been raised for the charity with £1.334 million being spent on charitable activities. This was an increase in funds raised by 16%. 72% of expenditure was spent directly on supporting orphans and vulnerable children in Lesotho. 27% was spent on fundraising and 1% on governance.\n\nIn 2016 ITV filmed a documentary that follows Prince Harry as he visited Lesotho and talked about Sentebale's work over the years.\n\n"}
{"id": "4340293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4340293", "title": "St. Joseph's Health Centre", "text": "St. Joseph's Health Centre\n\nSt. Joseph's Health Centre is a large Catholic teaching hospital in western Toronto, Ontario. It is located west of downtown, along the Lake Ontario shore at the intersection of The Queensway and Sunnyside Avenue, just west of Roncesvalles Avenue. It was founded in 1921 by the Sisters of St. Joseph order on the site of an orphanage. The same order also founded St. Michael's Hospital in Toronto in 1892.\n\nSt. Joseph's Health Centre receives more than 97,000 emergency room visits every year, and sees more than 272,000 visits in its outpatient ambulatory care clinics. More than 21,000 patients are admitted to a hospital bed every year, with an average stay of five to six days and an occupancy rate of 100%. Yearly, more than 3,000 children are born at St. Joseph's. Over 160,000 diagnostic imaging procedures are done ever year and more than 30,000 surgeries.\n\nSt. Joseph's is affiliated with the University of Toronto and accepts placement trainees in various specialties. Trainees are placed through U of T, and include students of other university medical programs. Over 800 trainees are placed at St. Joseph's and 200 faculty members at U of T. The medical education program is administered by the Department of Medical Education & Scholarship. St. Joseph's also accepts nursing trainees from universities and colleges.\n\n\nThe Women's, Children's and Family Health Program launched the St. Joseph's Urban Family Health Team (UFHT) at 27 Roncesvalles Ave. The main focus of UFHT is to improve population health by focusing on chronic disease prevention and management. It offers patient education, health promotion, disease prevention and chronic disease management programs.\n\nThe Emergency Clinic is located on the west side of the hospital, on Glendale Avenue. It is a streamed clinic, with adults streamed into one clinic, and children into another. St. Joseph's wait times are regularly monitored by the Ontario Ministry of Health. In 2012, St. Joseph's Health Centre had one of the lowest wait times in Ontario to see a doctor. The Ambulatory Clinic is a day-time clinic for non-emergency visits for patients needing immediate medical attention. The Ambulatory Clinic is also located in the Glendale wing.\n\nThe original site at Sunnyside Avenue, and The Queensway, was the site of the 1800s Sunnyside Villa and farm, a home of John George Howard, surveyor of Toronto. The Sacred Heart Orphanage was built on the site, operated by the Sisters of St. Joseph order. In 1921, the City of Toronto was considering expropriating the orphanage for a public high school. The order decided to convert part of the orphanage into a hospital to prevent expropriation, and St. Joseph's was founded.\n\nIn 1939, the Sisters of St. Joseph moved its Mercy Hospital for Incurables long-term care hospital to a new facility north of St. Joseph's Hospital proper. Known as Our Lady of Mercy Hospital, it operated independently until 1980, when it was merged with St. Joseph's Hospital. The Our Lady of Mercy Wing, as it was known, was demolished in 2007. In 2012, the replacement Our Lady of Mercy Wing opened. It is a four-storey building housing a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, a Paediatric Unit, Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services, an expanded Family Birthing Centre, and three new inpatient areas housing a total of 92 beds.\n\nIn 2011, a senior citizen was violently beaten and assaulted by security guards at the health centre.\n\nOn 1 August 2017, St. Joseph's Health Centre merged with St. Michael's Hospital and Providence Healthcare to form a new hospital network.\n\n"}
{"id": "29232551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29232551", "title": "THIRRA", "text": "THIRRA\n\nTHIRRA is an open-source web-based Electronic Health Records (EHR) System. The name THIRRA was derived from its project title Portable System for TeleHealth and Health Informatics for Rural and Remote Areas.\n\nThe THIRRA project was one of the pioneer eHealth telemedicine projects under the PANACeA network, funded by the International Development Research Centre. It was conceptualised in February 2007, with partners from Primary Care Doctors Organisation Malaysia (PCDOM), Sri Lanka Health Telematics, Healthnet Nepal and ICCDR,B of Bangladesh.\n\nThe main component of THIRRA is the Electronic Health Records System. Besides the EHR, it also has the Biosurveillance mode, that enables Public Health Departments to monitor and investigate infectious diseases outbreaks.\n\nTHIRRA can be used in an offline mobile mode, where no reliance on the Internet is required. Data is stored on the mobile devices such as laptops and netbooks. The users can synchronise the data with the main server when they return to the clinic/hospital.\n\nTHIRRA was written in the PHP programming language, using the CodeIgniter framework. The application is based on the Hierarchical Model View Controller (HMVC) design pattern, using the Modular Extension extension. This makes THIRRA modular by nature.\n\nIt stores data in the PostgreSQL database system and uses the JQuery UI Javascript framework for its Web 2.0 functionalities.\n\nTHIRRA is also integrated with another open source software called Generic Engine for Modules to expand its modules. Modules can be created by the health care professionals without requiring any programming knowledge.\n\nIt provides ICD-10 classification for diagnosis and LOINC for coding of labs and imaging orders.\n\nTHIRRA was released under the Mozilla Public License version 1.1.\n\nTHIRRA is currently being used by the public health sector in the following countries\n\nUsers can use it on any device with Javascript enabled web browsers accessing it from a dedicated server in the clinics/data centre or run it locally from computers as light as netbooks.\n\n"}
{"id": "23293941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23293941", "title": "Tara Knowles", "text": "Tara Knowles\n\nDr. Tara Grace Knowles-Teller is a fictional character on the FX drama \"Sons of Anarchy,\" played by Maggie Siff.\n\nTara is a native of Charming, California. (She said her heritage was half-Irish.) Her mother died when Tara was nine, and according to ATF Agent Stahl, Tara had a \"drunk daddy\", whom Tara described as a \"bit of a packrat\". Tara was Jax Teller's high-school sweetheart, and during that era she had a crow tattooed on her lower back representing her connection to SAMCRO. Tara was arrested in Jax's company at least three times in 1996. She left town when Jax was 19, in order to get away from small-town life and the influence of the club. According to his mother Gemma, this broke Jax's heart.\n\nAfter leaving Charming, Tara moved in with a cousin of her father's, who lived in San Diego, studied at UC San Diego, and graduated with honors. She then attended medical school in Chicago (either Feinberg Medical School at Northwestern University, according to her file in \"Fun Town\", or \"Loyola Med\" according to Agent Stahl in \"Better Half\") where she was at the top of her class, then she completed an internship at Chicago Presbyterian.\n\nWhile in Chicago, Tara dated ATF agent Joshua Kohn, and got pregnant, and had an abortion at six weeks. Kohn became intimidating, violent, and obsessive, so she took out a restraining order against him several months before she returned to Charming, after an absence of 10 years.\n\nTara works as a Pediatric resident at the local hospital, St. Thomas. It is there that she tends to Jax's gravely ill infant son Abel during Abel's hospitalization.\n\nTara lives in her childhood home, which she inherited from her father when he died. She also drives a Cutlass her father had parked in the garage under \"two tons of old newspapers\".\n\nTara's relationship with Jax upon her return to Charming is based primarily on their mutual concern for gravely ill Abel. Her psychotic ex-boyfriend Agent Kohn comes to Charming under the pretext of investigating SAMCRO, but is really there because he wants to resume his relationship with Tara. Afraid for her life, Tara seeks Jax's help in driving off Kohn. Jax stabs Kohn's car on her behalf, beats him bloody in an altercation at Floyd's barber shop, and then escorts him out of town. When Kohn returns in the dead of night and attacks Tara in her home, she shoots him in the gut and calls Jax for help.\n\nWhen Jax arrives he is furious about the attack and shoots Agent Kohn in the head. Tara and Jax then fall into each other's arms and make love while Kohn's iPod plays the Andy Williams song \"Can't Get Used to Losing You\" on a continuous loop.\n\nFollowing the killing of Kohn, Jax and Tara seem to settle into a largely healthy and positive romantic relationship. Tara spends more time with Jax at the clubhouse, plays nice with Gemma, and works to heal wounded club associate Cameron Hayes.\n\nThe Jax-Tara relationship soon seems to disintegrate after his ex-wife Wendy returns from rehab. In the penultimate season-one episode \"The Sleep of Babies\", Tara is seen sleeping alone while Jax and Wendy make love. In the final episode of the first season, \"The Revelator\", Tara tells Jax that she has arranged to return to Chicago as she does not believe she is cut out for life in Charming. This angers Jax, and he storms off. At the end of the episode Tara is seen to have changed her mind, and she turns up at Donna's funeral, where she and Jax share a kiss.\n\nTara officially becomes Jax's \"old lady\" and is integrated into the club's world. After Gemma is raped and abused, she turns to Tara for medical help. Tara encourages Gemma to seek out counseling to deal with the psychological repercussions of the attack but Gemma is reluctant. Tara's help with Gemma combined with her efforts at raising Abel begins to heal the rift between Tara and Gemma. Tara's connection with Jax and SAMCRO, on the other hand, causes problems for her at work. When Gemma accidentally breaks Tara's nose after being startled, Margaret Murphy (a hospital administrator) assumes that Jax is responsible and warns Tara about the possible repercussions of being associated with SAMCRO. Later, Margaret files a \"hostile work environment\" complaint against Tara after Gemma confronts the administrator about the hospital's desire to move Chibs to another facility because of an insurance issue. Chibs later falsely complains of head pain and is able to stay at the hospital. Margaret accuses Tara of coaching Chibs with his symptoms and has Tara's privileges suspended.\n\nWhen Jax decides that he wanted to go nomad, Tara is upset that he made the decision without consulting her. However, unlike everyone else connected to the club, she feels like it might be the right decision given the tension between Jax and Clay.\n\nGemma lets Tara know that as Jax's \"old lady\", Tara has considerable prestige and respect in the club when other women in the club defer to her, and that she shouldn't \"take any shit\" from anyone. Later, Tara confronts Margaret. The altercation turns violent and Tara then chokes and punches her. She tells Margaret, \"I know where you live, I know where your kids go to school\" and informs her that the cops are on SAMCRO's payroll and that the club runs Charming. Tara advises Margaret to keep her mouth shut and retract her complaint. Margaret immediately agrees to do so.\n\nIn the season two finale, Tara attempts to convince Gemma to not get revenge on those that raped her, but is unsuccessful. She is present at Jax's home when Cameron Hayes appears, and is tied to a chair by him before he kidnaps Abel Teller. Tara is untied by Jax and tells him what has happened to his son. Jax and the rest of the club unsuccessfully try to save Abel while Tara is later seen being consoled by Deputy David Hale.\n\nTara is still saddened by the loss of Abel. As time goes by, Jax continues to push her away with increasing vehemence. She feels Jax is pushing her away because he blames her for not preventing Abel's kidnapping. She visits a fugitive Gemma and helps her kill Gemma's father's caretaker. Tig helps the two of them cover it up. Tara later reveals to Gemma that she is six weeks pregnant.\n\nAfter Jax leaves Tara, she catches him with CaraCara porn star, Ima. Tara then starts packing her things at Jax's house. He apologizes for what she saw earlier, but she feels he wanted her to see it, because he wants her gone and knew it was the one thing that would drive her away. She expresses that she thinks he is doing this because he hates her for what happened to Abel. Jax says that it is to protect her, but Tara doesn't believe him. When Jax goes after her, she is already pulling out of the driveway. As Tara leaves Jax's house it is shown that the recently ousted Calaveras MC leader, Hector Salazar, has been secretly stalking her and Jax.\n\nTara considers having an abortion, as she believes Jax is not ready for another child. Gemma tries to convince Tara to wait until Jax gets back from Belfast and look into Abel's eyes before she does anything. Gemma wants Tara to try to mend the relationship, because Jax hasn't been thinking clearly since Abel's abduction. Tara ultimately helps Gemma escape police custody so Gemma can go with Clay and Jax to Belfast.\n\nLyla asks Tara if she knows of any clinics that conduct abortions. When she goes with Lyla to have the procedure, they have a conversation about why Lyla is having the abortion. It turns out Lyla is having the same problems with Opie. He won't open up to her in fear of what might happen. Lyla also feels the baby is an inconvenience because she wants to continue working as a porn star. After the conversation, Tara schedules an abortion for herself, as well. Later, Tara reveals to Margaret Murphy that she is going to have an abortion; Margaret agrees it is a good idea and offers to drive Tara to the clinic. On the way, Salazar stages a car accident and abducts Margaret and Tara.\n\nWhile Tara and Margaret are being held by Salazar, he becomes upset when his hostage demands aren't met and threatens to kill Margaret. Tara tries to persuade him not to and when he doesn't listen to her, she causes a distraction. She attacks Salazar's girlfriend and tries to get away. Salazar kicks her hard in the stomach. He goes to kick her a second time but stops when Tara tells him that she is pregnant.\n\nWhen Tara gets a chance to go to the bathroom, she breaks off a piece of a mirror to use as a weapon. When Salazar's girlfriend breaks into the bathroom, Tara cuts her neck and almost escapes with Margaret, but Salazar stops them. After a stand off, Tara tells him his girlfriend is in the bathroom bleeding badly. She says she will keep his girlfriend alive if he lets Margaret go. When Salazar's girlfriend dies in the car, he throws Tara against the car and puts a gun to her head.\n\nSalazar takes Tara to Jacob Hale's office, where he takes Hale hostage as well. When he gives his list of demands, one of them is for Jax to come to Hale's office. Tara sees Salazar pull out a knife, and he tells her he plans to kill her while Jax watches and then kill Jax. As Jax enters the office, Salazar is about to kill Tara, but Jacob Hale stabs him instead. Jax wrestles the gun from Salazar, gives it to Tara, and tells her to kill anyone who is not a cop. When the whole ordeal is over with Jax and Tara go to the doctor for an ultrasound to make sure the baby was not harmed. The baby is healthy and Jax and Tara hear the heartbeat and see the baby on the ultrasound. Jax and Tara then go to Gemma's house where Gemma hugs her. Tara sees Abel and happily holds him and welcomes him back home. In the season finale, Tara has become more involved with the club. She drives Jimmy O back to the garage in the trunk after SAMCRO buys him from the Russians. Jax makes sure that she wears a bulletproof vest to ensure her safety in case something goes wrong. When Stahl tells the club about the deal Jax made with her, which was actually a trap by the club to kill Stahl and Jimmy, she runs and hugs him distraught and fearing that the club will kill him in prison. In the closing minute of the season 3 finale, Tara reads letters from John Teller to his mistress Maureen Ashby implying that Gemma and Clay would be responsible for his death should it happen. The close up shot of Tara's face transitions to Jax's face, thus ending season 3.\n\nBridge between end of Season 3 and beginning of Season 4:\nBy the end of season 3 when Jax and the other Samcro members were hauled off to prison, Tara is a little over 8 weeks pregnant. However, in a special feature \"appisode\" (titled: Tara and Piney)- that took place day 85 of Jax's incarceration; a pregnant Tara is shown about 5 months along. In this appisode, Tara goes to Piney for information on John Teller's death but is rebuked and told not to investigate further and that the past was \"dead and buried\" . In another special \"appisode\" (titled: Second Son) - which bridges the gap between seasons; Tara and Gemma visit Jax in prison. Tara has just given birth to baby Thomas, and she brings the baby to meet Jax for the first time. Jax is overjoyed. He apologizes for missing the delivery and promises he wouldn't miss anything important ever again.\n\nTara is waiting to greet Jax on his return home. When Jax arrives he and Tara spend a little time with Abel and Thomas before Jax has to go inside the clubhouse for a meeting. When Tara and Jax meet at their house later, they waste no more time and begin making love. Jax then proposes to Tara by putting a ring on their son Thomas's finger. Before Tara can fully accept they have a serious talk about the future of their family. Jax explains that he is done with SAMCRO, but he has to stay until Clay steps down as president because he and Gemma won't let Jax walk away without conflict. He does assure her that as soon as Clay retires and once he has saved enough money to avoid living off his wife he will leave SAMCRO and they will start fresh as a normal family.\n\nLater, at Opie and Lyla's wedding, Jax is the best man and Tara is the maid of honor. The next day Tara and Jax are having breakfast with their sons when they see on the news a story about four dead bodies found at the construction site of Charming Heights. She asks Jax to tell her all he knows about it. He tells her it was retaliation for him getting stabbed in prison. Later on she encounters Gemma in her office who asks why Tara is not wearing her engagement ring. Tara simply tells Gemma that she and Jax are just waiting for the right time to tell everyone. Later at the clubhouse a distraught Tara is reunited with Jax after he is rescued from the Russians. There she discovers, along with Jax, that the clubhouse had been trashed by Sheriff Roosevelt. To lighten up the mood she decides to announce the engagement.\n\nDuring the season (and before) Tara has become more fearful of the consequences of being involved with SAMCRO and increasingly begins to think about the effect it will have on her son. This leads Tara to make the decision of leaving town with her son until things settle down. Tara is also conflicted about the letters from Maureen Ashby. Gemma has found out she has them and tries most of the season to obtain them and destroy them. Piney also shows interest in them as a way to blackmail Clay, but Tara keeps them protected. Clay finds out about the letters and he is so fearful of them getting out, that he takes out a hit on her life from Romeo. Eventually after confronting Gemma about the letters, Tara admits that she is not capable of showing the letters to Jax, feeling that if he knew who his father truly was, Jax would get deeper into the club out of guilt, therefore getting him further from her.\n\nTara eventually heads to a medical conference in Oregon and takes Abel and Thomas with her, most likely for an indefinite stay. Jax accompanies her and on the way there the assassins hired by Clay try to kill her. Tara survives thanks to Jax, however during the fight her right hand gets smashed in a van door. Her hand is repaired, but the nerves are terribly damaged. Her doctor affirms it is unknown if it is permanent but she feels otherwise and believes her career to be over. Jax, extremely upset himself, tries to comfort her, but Tara has become distant and asks him to leave her alone. She feels that now their future is set and they will never get out of Charming. She's later encouraged by Jax that everything will go as they had planned, which Tara barely believes.\n\nDuring the day she's visited by Jax's ex-wife Wendy, who makes it clear that she wants to know Abel better, as she gave up custody but not the right to know him. This unnerves Tara who feels she is Abel's true mother and becomes fearful that Wendy will take him away from her. Wendy leaves her number and Tara smashes the vase of flowers, screaming in anger. She's later put under psych watch and restrained to her bed. Jax begins to feel at a loss as how to take care of and comfort her.\n\nLater Gemma comes to see her and confesses that it was Clay who wanted her dead because of the letters, which she gives to Gemma. She reveals later to Gemma that she was fully aware of her plan to have Clay killed by Jax and hide the letters that involve her and Unser, to prompt Jax to stay as President. Tara gives Jax a blood thinner to inject into Clay, who is recuperating at St. Thomas. She then tells Jax, in front of Gemma, that he will kill Clay and come get her and the boys, so they can leave Charming forever. This plan fails as Jax is forced to stay due to the influence of Romeo Parada and Luis Torres who are undercover CIA agents. They need SAMCRO to provide weapons and transport drugs or they will crush the club. Understanding that Jax has to become President, Tara decides to remain with him. In the season finale, with Gemma watching Tara stands behind Jax at the head of the table, one arm draped around him, mirroring a photo of Gemma and John Teller.\n\nTara's hand is still in a cast, meaning that she's unable to perform surgeries. Despite losing ability to operate, she supports Jax as President of SAMCRO. The couple lacks certainty of \"where it all goes,\" but Jax is clear that \"no matter what happens, I want you to be my wife.\" Tara mocks the romanticism of a spontaneous wedding at Diosa to which Jax jokes, \"I killed a Fed for you ... nothing says endless love like capital murder.\" A judge marries them in a quick ceremony with wedding rings that belonged to Gemma and JT. Tension rises between Tara and Gemma over controlling the family. Tara places Abel and Thomas in hospital daycare with Jax's support. Tara gains power by shutting out Gemma, who is not on visitor list at first. Gemma tries to hurt Tara by using Wendy to threaten a custody suit. Tara stands firm by warning Gemma not to hurt her or her family or Jax \"might kill you.\" Tara strategically plans squashing RICO case with Lowen, Bobby and Jax. She volunteers at Stockton State Prison and asks Otto to recant his RICO statement.\n\nTara extends an olive branch to Gemma by placing her on daycare visitor's list and allowing her to watch the boys. Gemma is stoned when she wrecks her car with Abel and Thomas in the backseat. Tara punches Gemma when she confesses to being high while driving with the boys. Tara's fears intensify over the increasing threats to her family; she starts to defend and protect them in Gemma-like ways. Tara cuts her out of the family, but agrees to let Gemma back in if she helps Jax with getting intel from Clay on plot to undermine his leadership. Tara receives good prognosis for her hand and gets recruited for a surgical job in Oregon. Meanwhile, Otto agrees to Tara's plea on RICO if she will bring him Luann's crucifix.\n\nTara's career is on the line when she is investigated as an accessory to Otto's brutal murder of a prison nurse that was killed with Luann's crucifix. Jax assures Tara that they will get through the investigation just like they get through everything else to which she quips, \"that's what scares me.\" She becomes guarded when Jax doesn't walk away after meeting his goal to save the MC with RICO shutdown. She is pressed to reply to the offer and internally struggles with moving on as it is the \"last chance\" for her and Jax to get out of Charming. While meeting to prepare Tara's defense, Lowen prompts Tara to think about legal custody of sons if anything was to happen to her. Tara agrees to Providence Health & Services job offer before telling Jax.\n\nWendy confronts Tara with reality of risk associated with MC and shows her the shoulder bruise from the force of Jax jamming a speedball needle into it. Tara gasps with shock realizing that Jax is losing his way. The prison nurse's brother, Lee Toric, confronts Tara at the hospital and threatens to avenge her death. More than ever, Tara needs someone trustworthy to name as guardian of her sons in case of imprisonment or death. Tara has no permanent nerve damage and will be able to operate again. Tara requests clarity from Jax who does not come clean about intimidating Wendy.\n\nGemma confronts Tara about Providence Health & Services offer and threatens Tara \"I'm done with your power push.\" Gemma threatens to tell investigators that Tara planned the killing of an innocent nurse to reverse RICO. Tara enlists Wendy as guardian and is now more determined to pull her sons out of Charming's \"cesspool.\" Jax disapproves of Wendy as Guardian, but Tara insists it is her 'job as an old lady to be strong ... when and where [he] can't be.\" She tells him she accepted a job offer in Oregon to spare them from becoming like Gemma and Clay, which will force the boys to relive their mistakes.\n\nThe season ends with Tara's arrest for conspiracy to commit Pamela Toric's murder.\n\nAfter a season of failed attempts to get herself and her sons out of Charming (including a false pregnancy and subsequently faked miscarriage to bar Gemma Teller-Morrow from gaining custody of Abel and Thomas, should Tara go to prison), and after Tara and Jax's relationship was tested (Tara and Jax are having problems with her being behind bars for her involvement in the death of a nurse. Jax is seen at the end of episode 1 cheating on Tara with Colette Jane, an escort handler) Tara finds herself at odds with everyone she was supposed to be able to trust and chooses to use the bullet she pulled from Bobby Munson's shoulder as evidence necessary to grant her witness protection, in turn making her a rat and a liability to the MC and to Jax himself. In a last-minute plot twist, Jax finds Tara at a park in Lodi. They talk for several minutes and then the scene cuts to the motel room Tara had been hiding in. The two come to an understanding and Jax surrenders himself to the mercy of DA Tyne Patterson in exchange for Tara's immunity for all the crimes she committed on behalf the MC, specifically that of the murder of Pamela Toric, for which she was accused in season 5 but did not have anything to do with. The DA agrees to what Jax offers her after a few moments of reluctance to believe that he will come through. With that, Jax has let Tara know that he truly loves her and their sons more than anything. They cry and make love. Tara and Jax agree to meet the DA at the Teller home at 6pm after he spends his last hours as a free man with his sons. He tells Chibs and Bobby he will most likely be sentenced to 25 years, with parole in 10, 7 if he's lucky. Tara gets home earlier than expected and the house is empty, save for Eli, the sheriff, who entered the house with her so they could talk in private and he could help her bring her suitcases into the house, as she decided not to run away and do what Jax asked of her; raise their sons.\n\nWhen Eli leaves, stating he'll be outside, Tara calls for Wayne, assuming his truck outside meant he was in the house. Caught off guard, Gemma comes out of the laundry room and lunges for Tara, who cannot escape in time. Gemma hits her with an iron but doesn't knock her out. Tara struggles against Gemma's beating and her head is badly smashed on the sink, where Gemma then attempts to drown her. In one of the show's most gruesome moments, Tara struggles for several seconds before Gemma grabs a barbecue fork and stabs Tara multiple times in the back of the head and her neck. Blood gushing out of the back of her head, Tara collapses and dies.\n\nLt. Roosevelt walks in on the scene and discovers Gemma sitting on the floor next to Tara's body, in obvious shock. Gemma is mumbling incoherently about how it had to be done because she was going to rat out the MC. Roosevelt tells her she didn't rat out the MC, and that Jax is giving himself up to protect her. Immediately after this, Juice walks in, sees the scene, shoots Lt. Roosevelt twice in the back and then comforts Gemma. After this he begins cleaning up the murder scene. Jax returns home later that evening. He sees Lt. Roosevelt's legs on the kitchen floor, draws his gun, and then enters the kitchen, where he finds both Eli and Tara dead on the floor. Stunned, he drops his gun at Eli's feet and cradles Tara in his arms.\n\n\"The New York Times\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> series-premiere review remarked on the \"chemistry\" between Jax and Tara, and described the character as \"beautiful...refined and book-smart.\"\n\nTV Squad credited Siff with a \"superior performance\" and the \"Chicago Tribune\" described her as \"excellent.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46347646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46347646", "title": "The Connection (2014 documentary film)", "text": "The Connection (2014 documentary film)\n\nThe Connection is a 2014 documentary directed by former ABC journalist Shannon Harvey which outlines various aspects of mind body medicine, such as the role of stress and community. It looks at the effect this has on human health, particularly those with a chronic illness.\n\nIt features Dean Ornish, Herbert Benson, Jon Kabat-Zinn, Esther Sternberg, Andrew Weil, Alice Domar, David Spiegel, Craig Hassed, Damien Finniss and Sara Lazar. It also features six stories of people who have used mind body medicine while suffering from illnesses including multiple sclerosis, infertility, heart disease, cancer, autoimmune disease and chronic pain.\n"}
{"id": "49936298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49936298", "title": "Victor Mravlag", "text": "Victor Mravlag\n\nVictor Mravlag, MD was Mayor of Elizabeth, New Jersey who served multiple terms, he was also a physician who was instrumental in the development of the Elizabeth General Hospital and Dispensary. Dr. Mravlag was a member of the Union County Medical Society and a founding member of the Elizabeth General Hospital Clinical Society.\n\nHe died on May 15, 1934.\n"}
{"id": "44775497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44775497", "title": "Virginia Starcher", "text": "Virginia Starcher\n\nVirginia Rae \"Ginny\" Starcher (February 23, 1930 – December 19, 2012) was an American politician and schoolteacher from West Virginia, who represented Jackson County and part of Mason County from 1987–1991.\n\nShe was born in Wheeling, West Virginia to Roy and Ella Jolliffe (née Lowe). She attended schools in Cameron, West Virginia before graduating from West Virginia University. She taught at her alma mater, and two secondary schools, Ripley High School in Ripley, West Virginia and Schenectady High School in New York.\n\nStarcher's early work with the federal government included stints at the Central Intelligence Agency and Library of Congress. She later served as Jackson County commissioner. A Democrat, Starcher ran for her first state-level election in 1984, but lost to Bill Carmichael. She won the 1986 election, becoming the first woman elected to the West Virginia House of Delegates from her district. Starcher won reelection in 1988, and retired at the conclusion of her second term.\n\nIn October 2012, she and her husband Harold Starcher ate at a Bob Evans restaurant in Ripley, where both allegedly suffered food poisoning. Both spent their final months in hospitals and hospice care. Virginia Starcher died at the Hubbard Hospice House in Charleston, West Virginia on December 19, 2012, and Harold died on May 6, 2013. Their children, Mark and Ann, have filed a lawsuit against Bob Evans and are asking for $250,000 in damages.\n"}
{"id": "12229745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12229745", "title": "WHO Centre for Health Development", "text": "WHO Centre for Health Development\n\nThe WHO Centre for Health Development (WKC) is an intergovernmental agency forming part of the World Health Organization of the United Nations, as one of the centres in the WHO Health Systems and Innovation Cluster. The main office is located in Kobe, Japan. It is commonly known as the WHO Kobe Centre, which is the origin of its acronym, WKC. The initial proposal to establish a centre in Kobe City was made to the World Health Organization (WHO) by the Governor of Hyogo Prefecture and the Mayor of Kobe City in December 1990, as a contribution to international health work.\n\nIts role is to nurture, support and sustain excellence and innovation in public health research on health in development. It describes its vision as \"Innovations for sustainable universal health coverage\". \n\nA joint statement issued by a recent ASEAN-Japan Health Ministers Meeting on Universal Health Coverage And Population Ageing held in July 2017 in Tokyo noted that WHO Kobe Centre plays the central role in promoting joint research and knowledge management on Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in ASEAN Member States and Japan.\n\n\n"}
