{"id": "11865402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11865402", "title": "A Story of the Stone Age", "text": "A Story of the Stone Age\n\n\"A Story of the Stone Age\" is a short story written in 1897 by H. G. Wells.\n\nThe story was featured in three parts between May and August 1897 in \"The Idler\" magazine, and was later released in collected editions. The story is set during the Stone Age, and tells of a caveman named Ugh-lomi, who bonds with the young woman Eudena and kills his rival, the \"de facto\" tribal leader Uya. Whilst in exile, Ugh-lomi becomes the first man to ride a horse, and to combine stone and wood to fashion an axe. He uses this weapon, along with his wits, to survive encounters with cave bears, hyenas and rhinos, and ultimately claim the position of tribal leader for himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "42622155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42622155", "title": "Ahatanhel Krymsky", "text": "Ahatanhel Krymsky\n\nAhatanhel Yukhymovych Krymsky (, ; – 25 January 1942) was an Ukrainian Orientalist, linguist and polyglot (knowing up to 35 languages), literary scholar, folklorist, writer, and translator. He was one of the founders of the All-Ukrainian Academy of Sciences (VUAN) in 1918 and a full member of it and of the Shevchenko Scientific Society from 1903.\n\nKrymsky was born in Volodymyr-Volynskyi to a Lipka Tatar father and an ethnic Polish mother. His family moved soon to Zvenyhorodka in Central Ukraine. His surname \"Krymsky\" () means \"Crimean\" and was received by an ancestor in the 17th century who was a Crimean Tatar mullah from Bakhchysaray. He was baptized into Eastern Orthodoxy. Although Ahatanhel had no Ukrainian origin he described himself as \"Ukrainophile\".\n\nKrymsky graduated from Galagan College in Kiev in 1889, from the Lazarev Institute of Oriental Languages in Moscow in 1891, and subsequently from Moscow University in 1896. After graduation, he worked in the Middle East from 1896 to 1898, and subsequently returned to Moscow, where he became a lecturer at the Lazarev Institute, and, in 1900, a professor. Krymsky taught Arabic literature and Oriental history. In Moscow, he was active in the Ukrainian pro-independence movement and was a member of Moscow's Ukrainian Hromada.\n\nIn July 1918 Krymsky returned to Kiev and took part in the foundation of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine (VUAN). Eventually, he became the director of the Academy. He edited 20 of the 25 volumes of \"Записки Історично-філологічного відділу\" (\"Notes of the History and Philology Department\") of the Academy (1920–29) and was a professor at Kiev University as well as the vice-president of the Ukrainian Science Society in Kiev from 1918. \n\nAlthough Krymsky survived the Great Purge of the 1930s, he was removed from scholarly and teaching activity for about 10 years. In 1939 he was rehabilitated, but in July 1941 after the German-Soviet war began, the NKVD arrested him as \"especially unreliable\", and deported him to Kostanay in Kazakhstan, where he died at the age of 71. He was finally rehabilitated in 1957.\n\nKrymsky was an expert in up to 34 languages; some sources report that he had at least an average knowledge of 56 languages. Krymsky contributed few hundred entries to the Brockhaus, Efron, and Granat Russian encyclopedias and wrote many other works on Arabic, Turkish, Turkic, Crimean Tatar, and Iranian history and literature, some of which were pioneering textbooks in Russian Oriental studies.\nIn particular he wrote, in Russian, histories of Islam (1904–12); of the Arabs, Turkey, Persia and their literatures, Dervish theosophy, and a study of the Semitic languages and peoples. In the 1920s and 1930s he also wrote in Ukrainian histories of Turkey and Persia and their literatures; monographs on Hafiz and his songs and on the Turkic peoples, their languages, and literatures; and edited a collection of articles on the Crimean Tatars. With O. Boholiubsky he wrote a study of Arab higher education and the Arabian Academy of Sciences. During the last years of his life he wrote a six-volume history of the Khazars, which was never published.\n\nKrymsky researched the history of the Ukrainian language. As he was an opponent of Aleksei Sobolevsky's claim that the language of the ancient Kyivan Rus’ was more Russian, than Ukrainian, he wrote three polemical studies in 1904-07 on this question, later his views on the language of the Kyivan Rus were summarized in \"Українська мова, звідкіля вона взялася і як розвивалася\" (\"The Ukrainian Language: Whence It Came and How It Developed\"). Krymsky researched Ukrainian dialects and was actively involved in the work of standardizing the vocabulary and orthography of literary Ukrainian in the 1920s. In this activity he rejected the Galician orthographic tradition. He was the editor of the first two vols of the four-volume Russian-Ukrainian dictionary (1924–33) and of the Russian-Ukrainian dictionary of legal language (1926).\nKrymsky wrote three books of lyrical poetry and some novellas, and translated many Arabic and Persian literary works into Ukrainian, including The Rubáiyát of Omar Khayyam, One Thousand and One Nights, and Hafez's songs. He also translated the poetry of European writers such as Heinrich Heine, Byron, Sappho, Friedrich Rückert. He published articles and reviews on Ukrainian writers, their works and on Ukrainian theater.\n\nAs an ethnographer, Krymsky was an adherent of migration theory. He translated into Ukrainian and annotated W.A. Clouston's \"Popular Tales and Fictions\" (1896) and also wrote many Orientalist works and articles about Ukrainian ethnographers.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "36489099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36489099", "title": "Babar Kot", "text": "Babar Kot\n\nBabar Kot is an archeological site belonging to Indus Valley Civilisation located in Saurashtra region of Gujarat State, India. It is away from Ahmedabad and away from Bhavnagar and located in Jafarabad taluka.\n\nGregory Possehl, of University of Pennsylvania has undertaken detailed study at this site as well as at Rojdi and Oriyo timbo.\n\nThis site is classified as belonging to Late Harappan period and measures about 2.7 hectares; Babar Kot had a stone fortification wall.\n\nFindings from this site include plant remains of millets, gram, bajra(pennisetum typhoideum)etc. Further, it is indicated that Bajra might be present at this site during third millennium BCE. Babar kot provided evidence of two crops, one in summer and another during winter.\n\n"}
{"id": "25193679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25193679", "title": "Begadkefat", "text": "Begadkefat\n\nBegadkefat (also begadkephat, begedkefet) is the name given to a phenomenon of lenition affecting the non-emphatic stop consonants of Biblical Hebrew and Aramaic when they are preceded by a vowel and not geminated. The name is also given to similar cases of spirantization of post-vocalic plosives in other languages; for instance, in the Berber language of Djerba. Irish has a similar system.\n\nThe phenomenon is attributed to the following consonants:\nThe name of the phenomenon is made up with these six consonants, mixed with haphazard vowels for the sake of pronunciation: BeGaDKePaT. The Hebrew term (Modern Hebrew ) denotes the letters themselves (rather than the phenomenon of spirantization).\n\nBegedkefet spirantization developed sometime during the lifetime of Biblical Hebrew under the influence of Aramaic. Its time of emergence can be found by noting that the Old Aramaic phonemes , disappeared in the 7th century BC. It persisted in Hebrew until the 2nd century CE. During this period all six plosive / fricative pairs were allophonic.\n\nIn Modern Hebrew three of the six letters, (bet), (kaf) and (pe) each still denote a stop–fricative variant pair; these variants are, however, no longer purely allophonic (see below). Although orthographic variants of (gimel), (dalet) and (tav) still exist, these letters' pronunciation always remains acoustically and phonologically indistinguishable. In Yiddish, as well as in Ashkenazi Hebrew (which was heavily influenced by Yiddish), can denote a fricative variant, .\n\nIn Hebrew writing with niqqud, a dot in the center of one of these letters, called dagesh ( ּ ), marks the plosive articulation:\n\nA line (similar to a macron) placed above it, called \"rafe\" ( ֿ ), marks in Yiddish (and rarely in Hebrew) the fricative articulation.\n\nAs mentioned above, the fricative variants of , and no longer exist in modern Hebrew. (However, Hebrew \"does\" have the guttural R consonant which is the voiced counterpart of and often coincides with Mizrahi Hebrew's fricative variant of ḡimel as well as Arabic's غ ġayn, both of which are ~. Modern Hebrew ר resh can still sporadically be found standing in for this phoneme, for example in the Hebrew rendering of Raleb (Ghaleb) Majadele's name.) The three remaining pairs ~, ~, and ~ still sometimes alternate, as demonstrated in inflections of many roots in which the roots' meaning is retained despite variation of begedkefet letters' manner of articulation, e.g.,\nhowever, in Modern Hebrew, stop and fricative variants of , and are sometimes distinct phonemes, compare e.g.:\n\nand consider, e.g.:\n\nThis phonemic divergence might be due to a number of factors, amongst others:\n\nApart from this partial phonemic distinction, common Israeli pronunciation no longer always concords with the original phonological principle \"stop variant after a consonant; fricative after a vowel\", although this principle is still prescribed as standard by the Academy of the Hebrew Language, e.g.:\n"}
{"id": "40344477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40344477", "title": "Bruckmann's Illustrated Guides", "text": "Bruckmann's Illustrated Guides\n\nBruckmann's Illustrated Guides (1892-1916) were European travel guide books published by A. Bruckmann in Munich and Asher & Co. in London. The series also appeared in a German-language edition entitled \"Bruckmann's Illustrierte Reiseführer\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "967682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=967682", "title": "Bucheon", "text": "Bucheon\n\nBucheon () is a city in Gyeonggi Province, South Korea. Bucheon is a satellite city of Seoul, away. This city is located between Incheon and Seoul.\n\nBucheon is the second most densely populated city in South Korea after Seoul, and as a result, administrative districts were abolished in July 2016 in favor of providing greater public service in community centers.\n\nMajor manufacturing operations are located in the northern areas of the city, while the areas in the south where Seoul Subway Line 7 and Seoul Subway Line 1 pass are dense commercial and residential areas.\n\nIn 1914, outer areas of Incheon City (including former city centre of Gwangyo-dong of old Incheon) and Bupyeong County were joined together under the name \"Bucheon\". In 1931, Gyenam township (\"myeon\", 계남면) was renamed Sosa township (\"myeon\", 소사면). In 1936, the westernmost part of Bucheon which were part of old Incheon (including the former Incheon city centre of Gwangyo-dong) was incorporated in Incheon City and in 1940 some other part of old Incheon belonging to Bucheon Country was incorporated in Incheon again while part of old Bupyeong was annexed to Incheon at the same time. In 1941, Sosa township promoted to \"eup\" (town) status.\n\nJanuary 1, 1963, when the great expansion of Seoul was implemented, several districts were combined to Yeongdeungpo-gu (영등포구) of Seoul Metropolitan City as below.\n\nIn 1988, two districts were established. Bucheon was divided into Nam-gu (\"south\", ) and Jung-gu (\"central\", ) along the Seoul-Incheon trainline. Present day Sosa-gu was formerly called Nam-gu.\n\nIn 1993, Bucheon's Jung-gu was separated into two further districts, forming Wonmi () and Ojeong () Districts.\n\nThe three districts were abolished in July 2016 as Bucheon decided to become a unified city without any administrative districts.\n\nBucheon promotes itself as the cultural centre of the Seoul Metropolitan Area. The Bucheon Philharmonic Orchestra is located there, an annual international film festival is held in July called the Bucheon International Fantastic Film Festival or BiFan, and an annual international bboy competition called Bucheon Bboy International Championship (BBIC) held by since 2016.\n\nBucheon's institutions of higher education include: Bucheon College, Yuhan College, Catholic University of Korea Bucheon campus, and Seoul Theological University.\n\nThe city was designated \"City of Literature\" and has been a member of UNESCO Creative Cities Network since 2017.\n\n\nThere are a number of markets in Bucheon, including the traditional market that runs along the south side of Bucheon Station, and a smaller traditional market that is located between Songnae Station and Jungdong Station.\nBucheon Station has an underground shopping center, a small Starbucks, and an E-Mart with a small Kyobo Book store on the top floor.\n\nThere are many department stores. In the Jung Dong area there is a Lotte Department store (formally GS Square) with a HomePlus located just across the street. On the Jung Dong and Sang Dong cusp there are a number of shopping places including the Hyundai Department Store, E-mart, and UPLEX (formally known as \"The Mall\"). UPLEX has a CGV movie cinema. The main Bucheon intercity bus terminal is attached to a shopping center called Newcore and it has a grocery store called Kim's Club located on the ground floor. There is also a movie cinema called Primus (프리머스) located in Newcore which is change into CGV nowadays. There is also a large HomePlus located beside Newcore with a Save Zone shopping center opposite it.\n\nSongnae Station has a Toona Shopping Mall, which mostly sells clothing.\nYeokgok Station has a Homeplus.\nThere is also a Homeplus in Northern Bucheon, nearer to Bucheon Stadium.\n\nThe busiest areas for bars and restaurants are located by Bucheon Station, Lotte Department Store (formally GS Square), and Hyundai Department Store.\n\nThere are a few foreign food restaurants and bars in Bucheon such as Nicolia (located in Jung Dong) and 2 bars near Hyundai department store called The Park and Rhythm and Booze. Both bars are popular with the local expat community and both have events to celebrate various foreign holidays. They both have pool tables and dart boards, live music, DJs, and sports events on TV.\n\nThere are also three Indian and Nepalese restaurants; Masala and Tandoor are located in Jung Dong near Hyundai Department Store and Annapurna located near Bucheon Station. And there are several restaurants which serve steaks, pasta and different kinds of western food in Jung Dong area. There are Ashley, Outback steak house, VIPs (located in the Uplex mall.) and seafood restaurant (near Newcore).\n\nThere are few local cafe or restaurants providing English menu, or clerks who can speak English. one of them is Cafe Mosaic, located near Bucheon University, famous with hand-made pizza and burgers with various drinks.\n\nBucheon has an extensive bus network of local and area buses that connect the city to Seoul, Incheon and other surrounding cities. Bucheon Bus Terminal has buses connecting to different cities and provinces throughout the country. The Seoul Subway System Line 1 and Line 7 runs through Bucheon. There are currently five stations in Seoul Subway Line Line 1 within Bucheon City, including Bucheon Station and Songnae Station, and seven stations in the Line 7, including Kkachiul, Bucheon Stadium, Chunui, Sinjung-dong, Bucheon City Hall, and Sang-dong, which continues through Incheon ending at Bupyeong Station.\n\nBucheon has currently two subway lines under construction. The Sosa-Wonsi Line will open in 2018, connecting Bucheon's Sosa Station of the Line 1 with Ansan's Choji Station of Seoul Subway Line 4. The Daegok-Sosa Line will open in 2021, connecting with the Sosa-Wonsi Line as a single line. It will provide subway service in the northern area of Bucheon and connect the city to Gimpo International Airport Station where transfers to Seoul Subway Line 5, Seoul Subway Line 9, AREX and Gimpo Goldline will be available. The line terminates at Daegok Station in Goyang, which offers a transfer to Seoul Subway Line 3 and Gyeongui-Jungang Line.\n\nIn addition, the city is getting a completely new subway line in the future which will connect Bucheon's northern Wonjeong area to Hongik University Station.\n\nThere are a number of churches in Bucheon, including a Full Gospel Church near Lotte Department Store and the English-language \"Bucheon Onnuri English Ministry\" (BOEM) in Sang Dong. There is also a Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints located a short ways north of Bucheon Station. Evangelism and mission is a key expression of Christianity in the Bucheon churches. There is also Seogwangsa Temple, beside Weonmisan Mountain.\n\n\nBucheon is home to the K League Challenge football team Bucheon FC 1995.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4238207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4238207", "title": "Cadernos Pagu", "text": "Cadernos Pagu\n\nCadernos Pagu is a Brazilian academic journal on gender studies and sexuality. It was established in 1993 at the Universidade Estadual de Campinas. Pagu was the nickname of Patrícia Galvão, an iconic Brazilian feminist. The journal is published in Portuguese and the editor-in-chief is Leila Mezan Algranti (Universidade Estadual de Campinas).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\n"}
{"id": "9632781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9632781", "title": "Coeur d'Alene language", "text": "Coeur d'Alene language\n\nCoeur d'Alene (Cœur d'Alène, snchitsu'umshtsn) is a Salishan language. It was spoken by only two of the 80 individuals in the Coeur d'Alene Tribe on the Coeur d'Alene Reservation in northern Idaho, United States in 1999. It is considered an endangered language. However, as of 2014, two elders in their 90s remain who grew up with snchitsu'umshtsn as their first language, and the use of the language is spreading among all age groups.\n\nThe Coeur d'Alene Names-Places Project visits geographic sites on the reservation recording video, audio, and still photos of Tribal elders who describe the site in both English and Coeur d'Alene languages.\n\nThe Coeur d'Alene Tribal Language Program and elders have actively promoted the use of the language, and have created computer sounds that use Snchitsu'umshtsn phrases. Radio station KWIS FM 88.3 in Plummer, Idaho offers programming to preserve the Snchitsu'umshtsn language.\n\nLawrence Nicodemus, \"a retired judge and former tribal council member,\" became a scholar of the language. He had worked with linguist Gladys Reichard in his youth, and went on to create a grammar, dictionary, and instructional materials. Nicodemus taught language classes until his death at age 94. The Coeur d'Alene Tribe's language program has \"taught classes and worked with the language department to record more than 2,000 hours of audio and video.\" Classes are also available at North Idaho College.\n\nThere are three different orthographies, giving the interpretations of previous scholarly works. Coeur d'Alene examples have been taken from the works of Nicodemus et al. as well as from the COLRC website.\n\nNotes on Writing Systems\n\nIn Coeur d'Alene, there are eleven places of articulation: labial, alveolar, alveopalatal, lateral, labiovelar, uvular, labio-uvular, coronal pharyngeal, pharyngeal, labiopharyngeal, and laryngeal. Doak identifies six manners of articulation: plain and glottalized voiceless stops and affricates, voiced stops and affricate, voiceless fricatives, and plain and glottalized resonants.\nNotes on vowel inventory\n\nCoeur d'Alene is a morphosyntactically polysynthetic language. In Coeur d'Alene, a full clause can be expressed by affixing pronominal arguments and morphemes expressing aspect, transitivity and tense onto one verb stem (Doak,[13] 1997, p. 38). These affixes are discussed below.\n\nThe basic format of an intransitive thought as Doak identifies can be found below: \nThe intransitive subjects of Coeur d'Alene appear as clitics (Doak, 1997, p. 53), and their forms as well as examples from Doak (1997, p. 53-54) are found below:\nTo clarify, the parentheses used around the suffix, -ilš, are meant to show that it is optional. This 3rd person plural, optional morpheme is used to give clarity that something within the sentence has plurality, whether it is the subject or the object is a matter of context. To illustrate this more clearly, Doak (1997, p. 59) gives the example:\nThere are three determiners and one oblique marker that help specify participants by joining clauses and their main predicates. Doak (1997, p. 46-48).\n\nAs a general rule, adjuncts that are introduced with a determiner specify the absolutive, accusative and nominative pronominal arguments, while both the determiner and oblique marker introduce ergative arguments. When an indefinite participant is not indicated on the predicate, the oblique alone is used to indicate this participant. Doak (1997, p. vii)\n\nExamples:\n\nɬuɁ / niɁt̓εk̓ʷus / ɬa / stqʷíl̇k̇ʷup \nprox₃ / lay.in.fire / det₃ / fire\n\nHe lay in the fire Doak (1997, p. 47)\n\nni / kʷup / ɁáccqεɁ / xʷε / Lynn / hiɬ / kʷu / Ɂε\n\nQ / you.folks / go.out.pl / det₁ / Lynn / conn / you / person\n\nDid you go out with Lynn? Doak (1997, p. 48)\n\n(3) \nxεmínčs / xʷε / čεsčšípnc / xʷε / Ɂε / sčíčεɁ \nhe.likes / det₁ / he.will.chase.it / det₁ / obl / horse\n\nThe horse likes to chase. Doak (1997, p. 46)\n\n(4) \nxʷε / Ɂε / núnεɁs / hiɬ / cε / pípεɁs…\n\ndet₁ / obl / their.mother / and / det₂ / their.father…\n\nTheir mother and their father ... Doak (1997, p. 46)\n\nThe construction of a transitive sentence in Coeur d'Alene is:\n\nThere are three types of transitives in Coeur d'Alene: simple, causative, and applicative. The different transitivizers in Coeur d'Alene are listed below as described by Bischoff (2011, p. 27 modified).\n\nThe lone -t (-t) and the directive transitivizer -nt (-dt) are the most commonly used in Coeur d'Alene (Bischoff, 2011, p. 27). Doak (1997, p. 115) suggests that these two are alternative forms of one another with the lone -t appearing before a limited number of roots. The person markers that follow these forms are the same in function and form: agent subjects and patient objects. Most often, these transitivizers indicate that the subject is an agent in control of his or her actions (Bischoff, 2011, p. 27).\n\nThe causative transitivizer -st(u) (-ct) has three primary functions. It is used to indicate customary aspect, causative construction where the subject causes something or someone to be something, and topical object construction (Doak, 1997, p. 124). A unique set of m-initial objects for first and second person singular replace the s-initial morphemes when the construction is with a causative -st(u) transitivizer (Bischoff, 2011, p. 29).\n\nApplicative transitivizers introduce a third participant into the argument structure, and alter the role of the object. This means the participant represented by the object person marking morpheme serves as a possessor or dative with the possessor applicative transitivizer -łt (-pra) and as a beneficiary or dative with the benefactive transitivizer -š(i)t (-bt). There is also a third, much less frequent, applicative -tułt. can also indicate a dative construction, indicating the object to which something is given. It is also worthwhile to note that third person arguments are only understood from context because Coeur d'Alene only marks two arguments on the predicate using person marking morphemes (Bischoff, 2011, p. 30).\n\nIn transitive constructions with the possessor applicative -łt (-pra), the object marking on the predicate indicates the possessor, rather than the possessed, such as in Examples 1a and 1b below. In some cases, as in Example 1c below, -łt (-pra) serves to indicate a dative construction. In these cases, the role of the object shifts to dative (Bischoff, 2011, p. 30-31).\n\nIn constructions with the benefactive applicative -š(i)t (-bt), the argument indicated by the ergative is agent and that by accusative/absolutive the beneficiary. The benefactive applicative may also function to characterize an object as a recipient (Bischoff, 2011, p. 31).\n\nThe dative applicative -tułt is very rare, and the role of this applicative is uncertain other than that it introduces another participant into a sentence structure (Doak, 1997, p. 157). The only examples Doak gives only occur with third person or non-topic ergative person marking morphemes (Bischoff, 2011, p. 32).\n\nBelow are the transitive object morphemes, which appear as suffixes. The 3rd person is null. The following examples are taken from Doak (1997, p. 55-64).\n\nNotes on Transitive Objects\n\nThere is also a second set of transitive objects in Coeur d'Alene also appear as suffixes, which Doak identifies as non-topic ergative objects (NTE). Following examples from Doak (1997, p. 57-63)\n\nThe transitive subjects of Ergative case also appear as suffixes in Coeur d'Alene, and examples from Doak (1997, p. 56-63) are given below.\n\nGenitive structures are used to create possessives in Coeur d'Alene (Doak 1997, p. 169). Examples below are taken from Doak (1997, p. 69-71).\n\nPredicate Pronominal forms may stand alone as predicates or may serve as emphatic adjuncts. The forms are constructed as intransitive predicates with morphology and unanalyzable roots used nowhere else, and examples are given below (Doak, 1997, p. 72-73).\n\nThere are three aspects in Coeur d'Alene. The first is the completive, which has no morpheme marker. The completive aspect refers to an action that was completed in the past (Bischoff, 2011, p. 22; Reichard, 1938, p. 574). \n\nThe second is the customary aspect, characterized by the prefix morpheme, ʔɛc- (Doak, 1997, p. 85). \n\nThe third aspect is the continuative, indicated by the prefix morpheme y’c-. \n\nTense\nIn addition to aspect in Coeur d'Alene, there is evidence of realis and irrealis. Realis and irrealis marks a distinction between time that the speaker can directly perceive through his or her own knowledge or senses (realis) and that which is conjectured known of hypothetically, distantly, or by hearsay (irrealis). Only examples of irrealis are attested in Coeur d'Alene (Doak 1997,[13] p. 188).\n\nIrrealis is indicated in the same way as an aspect marker, by a particle occurring before the verb. The irrealis particle is nεʔ. There are no examples of both an aspect marker and irrealis occurring in the same predicate (Doak 1997, [13] p. 189).\n\nnεʔ uɬčicʔʔεĺəĺ xʷε inú….. \nnεʔ uɬ-čic √ʔεĺ+C₂ xʷε in√nunεʔ\nIrr again-loc√move+ncr det₁ 2G√mother\n\"When your mom gets back ...\" (Doak 1997, [13]p. 188.)\n\n(2) \nnεʔ ʔεkʷústmεt xʷε q̀ʷadəlqs\nnεʔ √ʔεkʷun-stu-ø-mεt xʷε √q̀ʷεd=alqs\nirr √say-ct-3abs-1Perg det √black=clothes\n\"We'll tell the black robes\" [or monks] (Doak 1997,[13] p. 189. )\n\n\n"}
{"id": "83621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83621", "title": "Copán", "text": "Copán\n\nCopán is an archaeological site of the Maya civilization located in the Copán Department of western Honduras, not far from the border with Guatemala. It was the capital city of a major Classic period kingdom from the 5th to 9th centuries AD. The city was located in the extreme southeast of the Mesoamerican cultural region, on the frontier with the Isthmo-Colombian cultural region, and was almost surrounded by non-Maya peoples.\n\nCopán was occupied for more than two thousand years, from the Early Preclassic period to the Postclassic. The city developed a distinctive sculptural style within the tradition of the lowland Maya, perhaps to emphasize the Maya ethnicity of the city's rulers.\n\nThe city has a historical record that spans the greater part of the Classic period and has been reconstructed in detail by archaeologists and epigraphers. Copán was a powerful city ruling a vast kingdom within the southern Maya area. The city suffered a major political disaster in AD 738 when Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil, one of the greatest kings in Copán's dynastic history, was captured and executed by his former vassal, the king of Quiriguá. This unexpected defeat resulted in a 17-year hiatus at the city, during which time Copán may have been subject to Quiriguá in a reversal of fortunes.\n\nA significant portion of the eastern side of the acropolis has been eroded away by the Copán River, although the river has since been diverted in order to protect the site from further damage.\n\nIt is thought likely that the ancient name of Copán was Oxwitik (), meaning the \"Three Witiks\", although the meaning of the word \"witik\" itself remains obscure.\n\nCopán is located in western Honduras close to the border with Guatemala. Copán lies within the municipality of Copán Ruinas in the department of Copán. It is situated in a fertile valley among foothills at above mean sea level. The ruins of the site core of the city are located from the modern village of Copán Ruinas, which is built on the site of a major complex dating to the Classic period.\n\nIn the Preclassic period the floor of the Copán Valley was undulating, swampy and prone to seasonal flooding. In the Early Classic, the inhabitants flattened the valley floor and undertook construction projects to protect the architecture of the city from the effects of flooding.\n\nCopán had a major influence on regional centres across western and central Honduras, stimulating the introduction of Mesoamerican characteristics to local elites.\n\nAt the peak of its power in the Late Classic, the kingdom of Copán had a population of at least 20,000 and covered an area of over . The greater Copán area consisting of the populated areas of the valley covered about a quarter of the size of the city of Tikal. It is estimated that the peak population in central Copán was between 6000 and 9000 in an area of , with a further 9,000 to 12,000 inhabitants occupying the periphery—an area of . Additionally, there was an estimated rural population of 3,000 to 4,000 in a area of the Copán Valley, giving an estimated total population of 18,000 to 25,000 people in the valley during the Late Classic period.\n\nLittle is known of the rulers of Copán before the founding of a new dynasty with its origins at Tikal in the early 5th century AD, although the city's origins can be traced back to the Preclassic period. After this, Copán became one of the more powerful Maya city states and was a regional power in the southern Maya region. However, it suffered a catastrophic defeat at the hands of its former vassal state Quirigua in 738, when the long-ruling king Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil was captured and beheaded by Quirigua's ruler K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat (Cauac Sky). Although this was a major setback, Copán's rulers began to build monumental structures again within a few decades.\n\nThe area of Copán continued to be occupied after the last major ceremonial structures and royal monuments were erected, but the population declined in the 8th and 9th centuries from perhaps over 20,000 in the city to less than 5,000. This decrease in population took over four centuries to actually show signs of collapse, showing the stability of this site even after the fall of the ruling dynasties and royal families. The ceremonial center was long abandoned and the surrounding valley home to only a few farming hamlets at the time of the arrival of the Spanish in the 16th century.\n\nReferences to the predynastic rulers of Copán are found in later texts, but none of these texts predate the refounding of Copán in AD 426.\n\nThe fertile Copán River valley was long a site of agriculture before the first known stone architecture was built in the region about the 9th century BC. The city was important before its refounding by a foreign elite; mentions of the predynastic history of Copán are found in later texts, but none of these predates the refounding of the city in AD 426. There is an inscription that refers to the year 321 BC, but no text explains the significance of this date. An event at Copán is linked to another event that happened 208 days before in AD 159 at an unknown location that is also mentioned on a stela from Tikal, suggesting that it is a location somewhere in the Petén Basin, possibly the great Preclassic Maya city of El Mirador. This AD 159 date is mentioned in several texts and is linked to a figure known as \"Foliated Ajaw\". This same person is mentioned on the carved skull of a peccary recovered from Tomb 1, where he is said to perform an action with a stela in AD 376.\n\nThe city was refounded by K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo', establishing it as the capital of a new Maya kingdom. This coup was apparently organized and launched from Tikal. Texts record the arrival of a warrior named K'uk' Mo' Ajaw who was installed upon the throne of the city in AD 426 and given a new royal name, K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' and the \"ochk'in kaloomte\" \"Lord of the West\" title used a generation earlier by Siyaj K'ak', a general from the great metropolis of Teotihuacan who had decisively intervened in the politics of the central Petén. K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' was probably from Tikal and was likely to have been sponsored by Siyaj Chan K'awill II, the 16th ruler in the dynastic succession of Tikal. K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' may have legitimized his claim to rulership by marrying into the old Copán royal family, evidenced from the remains of his presumed widow. Bone analysis of her remains indicates that she was local to Copán. After the establishment of the new kingdom of Copán, the city remained closely allied with Tikal. The hieroglyphic text on Copán Altar Q describes the lord being elevated to kingship with the receipt of his royal scepter. The ceremonies involved in the founding of the Copán dynasty also included the installation of a subordinate king at Quiriguá.\n\nA text from Tikal mentions K'uk' Mo' and has been dated to AD 406, 20 years before K'uk' Mo' Ajaw founded the new dynasty at Copán. Both names are likely to refer to the same individual originally from Tikal. Although none of the hieroglyphic texts that mention the founding of the new Copán dynasty describe how K'uk' Mo' arrived at the city, indirect evidence suggests that he conquered the city by military means. On Altar Q he is depicted as a Teotihuacano warrior with goggle eyes and a war serpent shield. When he arrived at Copán he initiated the construction of various structures, including one temple in the talud-tablero style typical of Teotihuacan and another with inset corners and apron moldings that are characteristic of Tikal. These strong links with both the Maya and Central Mexican cultures suggest that he was at least a Mexicanized Maya or possibly even from Teotihuacan. The dynasty founded by king K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' ruled the city for four centuries and included sixteen kings plus a probable pretender who would have been seventeenth in line. Several monuments have survived that were dedicated by K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' and by his heir.\n\nK'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' died between AD 435 and AD 437. In 1995 a tomb underneath the talud-tablero Hunal temple was discovered by a team of archaeologists led by Robert Sharer and David Sedat. The tomb contained the skeleton of an elderly man with rich offerings and evidence of battle wounds. The remains have been identified as those of K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' due to their location underneath a sequence of seven buildings erected in his honor. Bone analysis has identified the remains as being those of someone foreign to Copán.\nK'inich Popol Hol inherited the throne of Copán from K'inich ax K'uk' Mo', who was his father. He undertook major construction projects with the redesign of the core of Copán. Popol Hol is not the original name of this king but rather a nickname based on the appearance of his Teotihuacan-linked name glyph. K'inich Popol Hol oversaw the construction of the first version of the Mesoamerican ballcourt at the city, which was decorated with images of the scarlet macaw, a bird that features prominently in Maya mythology. His greatest construction activity was in the area of his father's palace, now underlying Structure 10L-16, which he demolished after entombing his father there. He then built three successive buildings on top of the tomb in rapid succession.\n\nVery little is known about Rulers 3 to 6 in the dynastic succession, although it is known from a fragment of a broken monument reused as construction fill in a later building that one of them was a son of Popol Hol. Ruler 3 is depicted on the 8th-century Altar Q, but his name glyph has broken away. Ku Ix was the 4th ruler in the succession. He rebuilt temple 10L-26 in the Acropolis, erecting a stela there and a hieroglyphic step at its base. Although this king is also mentioned on a few other fragments of sculpture, no dates accompany his name. The next two kings in the dynastic sequence are only known from their sculptures on Altar Q.\n\nB'alam Nehn (often referred to as Waterlily Jaguar) was the first king to actually record his position in the dynastic succession, declaring that he was seventh in line from K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo'. Stela 15 records that he was already ruling Copán by AD 504. B'alam Nehn is the only king of Copán to be mentioned in a hieroglyphic text from outside of the southeastern Maya region. His name appears in a text on Stela 16 from Caracol, a site in Belize. The stela dates to AD 534, but the text is not well understood. B'alam Nehn undertook major construction projects in the Acropolis, building over an early palace with a number of important structures.\n\nWil Ohl K'inich, the eighth ruler, is another king known only by his appearance on Altar Q. He was succeeded by Ruler 9 in AD 551, his accession being described on the Hieroglyphic Stairway. He is also depicted on Altar Q even though he ruled for less than two years.\nThe 10th ruler is nicknamed Moon Jaguar by Mayanists. He was a son of B'alam Nehn, the 7th ruler. He was enthroned in May 553. His surviving monuments were found in the modern village of Copán Ruinas, which was a major complex during the Classic period. The most famous construction dating to his reign is the elaborate Rosalila phase of Temple 16, discovered entombed intact under later phases of the temple during archaeological tunneling work.\n\nK'ak' Chan Yopaat was the eleventh dynastic ruler at Copán. He was crowned as king in AD 578, 24 days after the death of Moon Jaguar. At the time of his rule, Copán was undergoing an unprecedented rise in population, with residential land use spreading to all available land in the entire Copán Valley. The two surviving stelae of K'ak' Chan Yopaat contain long, hard-to-decipher hieroglyphic texts and are the oldest monuments at the site to survive without being either broken or buried. He reigned for 49 years until his death on 5 February 628. His name is recorded on four stelae erected by his successors, one of which describes a rite performed with relics from his tomb in AD 730, almost a hundred years after his death.\n\nSmoke Imix was crowned 16 days after the death of K'ak' Chan Yopaat. He is thought to have been the longest reigning king of Copán, ruling from 628 to 695. He is believed to have been born in AD 612 and to have become king at the age of 15. Archaeologists have recovered little evidence of activity for the first 26 years of his reign, but in AD 652 there was a sudden explosion of monument production, with two stelae being erected in the Great Plaza and a further four in important locations across the Copán Valley. These monuments all celebrated a k'atun-ending. He also erected a stela at the Santa Rita site away and is mentioned on Altar L at Quiriguá in relation to the same event in 652. It is thought that he was trying to stamp his authority throughout the whole valley after the end of some earlier restriction to his freedom to rule as he wished.\n\nAfter this sudden spate of activity, Smoke Imix continued to rule until almost the end of the 7th century; he dedicated another nine known monuments and made important changes to the architecture of Copán, including the construction of Structure 2, which closes the northern side of the Great Plaza, and a new version of Temple 26, nicknamed Chorcha. Smoke Imix ruled Copán for 67 years and died on 15 June 695 at the age of 79, an age that was so distinguished that it is used to identify him in place of his name on Altar Q. His tomb had already been prepared in the Chorcha phase of Temple 26 and he was buried just two days after his death.\n\nUaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil was crowned as the 13th king in the Copán dynasty in July 695. He oversaw both the apogee of Copán's achievements and also one of the city's most catastrophic political disasters. During his reign, the sculptural style of the city evolved into the full in-the-round sculpture characteristic of Copán. In AD 718, Copán attacked and defeated the unidentified site of Xkuy, recording its burning on an unusual stone cylinder. In AD 724 Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil installed K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat as a vassal on the throne of Quiriguá. Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil was confident enough in his power to rank his city among the four most powerful states in the Maya region, together with Tikal, Calakmul and Palenque, as recorded on Stela A. In contrast to his predecessor, Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil concentrated his monuments in the site core of the Copán; his first was Stela J, dated to AD 702 and erected at the eastern entrance to the city.\n\nHe continued to erect a further seven high-quality stelae until AD 736, monuments that are considered masterpieces of Classic Maya sculpture with such mastery of detail that they represent the highest pinnacle of Maya artistic achievement. The stelae depict king Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil ritually posed and bearing the attributes of a variety of deities, including B'olon K'awiil, K'uy Nik Ajaw and Mo' Witz Ajaw. The king also carried out major construction works, including a new version of Temple 26 that now bore the first version of the Hieroglyphic Stairway, plus two temples that have now been lost to the erosion of the Copán River. He also encased the Rosalila phase of Temple 16 within a new phase of construction. He remodelled the ballcourt, then demolished it and built a new one in its place.\n\nUaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil had only recently dedicated the new ballcourt in AD 738 when a completely unexpected disaster befell the city. Twelve years earlier he had installed K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat on the throne of Quiriguá as his vassal. By 734 the king of Quiriguá had shown he was no longer an obedient subordinate when he began to refer to himself as \"k'ul ajaw\", \"holy lord\", rather than simply as a subordinate lord \"ajaw\". K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat appears to have taken advantage of wider political rivalries and allied himself with Calakmul, the sworn enemy of Tikal. Copán was firmly allied with Tikal and Calakmul used its alliance with Quiriguá to undermine Tikal's key ally in the south.\n\nAlthough the exact details are unknown, in April 738 K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat captured Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil and burned two of Copán's patron deities. Six days later Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil was decapitated in Quiriguá. This coup does not seem to have physically affected either Copán or Quiriguá; there is no evidence that either city was attacked at this time and the victor seems not to have received any detectable tribute. All of this seems to imply that K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat managed to somehow ambush Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil, rather than to have defeated him in outright battle. It has been suggested that Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil was attempting to attack another site to secure captives for sacrifice in order to dedicate the new ballcourt when he was ambushed by K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat and his Quiriguá warriors.\n\nIn the Late Classic, alliance with Calakmul was frequently associated with the promise of military support. The fact that Copán, a much more powerful city than Quiriguá, failed to retaliate against its former vassal implies that it feared the military intervention of Calakmul. Calakmul was far enough away from Quiriguá that K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat was not afraid of falling directly under its power as a full vassal state, even though it is likely that Calakmul sent warriors to help in the defeat of Copán. The alliance instead seems to have been one of mutual advantage: Calakmul managed to weaken a powerful ally of Tikal while Quiriguá gained its independence. The disaster for Copán had long-lasting consequences; major construction ceased and no new monuments were raised for the next 17 years.\n\nK'ak' Joplaj Chan K'awiil was installed as the 14th dynastic ruler of Copán on 7 June 738, 39 days after the execution of Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil. Little is known of his reign due to the lack of monuments raised after Quiriguá's surprise victory. Copán's defeat had wider implications due to the fracturing of the city's domain and the loss of the key Motagua River trade route to Quiriguá. The fall in Copán's income and corresponding increase at Quiriguá is evident from the massive commissioning of new monuments and architecture at the latter city, and Copán may even have been subject to its former vassal. K'ak' Joplaj Chan K'awiil died in January 749.\nThe next ruler was K'ak' Yipyaj Chan K'awiil, a son of K'ak' Joplaj Chan K'awiil. The early period of his rulership fell within Copán's hiatus, but later on he began a programme of renewal in an effort to recover from the city's earlier disaster. He built a new version of Temple 26, with the Hieroglyphic Stairway being reinstalled on the new stairway and doubled in length. Five life-size statues of seated rulers were installed seated upon the stairway. K'ak' Yipyaj Chan K'awiil died in the early 760s and is likely to have been interred in Temple 11, although the tomb has not yet been excavated.\n\nYax Pasaj Chan Yopaat was the next ruler, 16th in the dynasty founded by K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo', although he appears not to have been a direct descendent of his predecessor. He took the throne in June 763 and may have been only 9 years old. He produced no monumental stelae and instead dedicated hieroglyphic texts incorporated into the city's architecture and smaller altars. Texts make an obscure reference to his father but his mother was a noblewoman from distant Palenque in Mexico. He built the platform of Temple 11 over the tomb of the previous king in AD 769 and added a two-storey superstructure that was finished in AD 773. Around AD 776, he completed the final version of Temple 16 over the tomb of the founder. At the base of the temple, he placed the famous Altar Q, which shows each of the 16 rulers of the city from K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' through to Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat, with a hieroglyphic text on top describing the founding of the dynasty. By the latter 8th century, the nobility had become more powerful, raising palaces with hieroglyphic benches that were as richly constructed as those of the king. At the same time, local satellites were displaying their own local power, as demonstrated by the ruler of Los Higos erecting his own stela in AD 781. Towards the end of Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat's reign, the city of Copán was struggling with overpopulation and a lack of local resources, with a distinct fall in living standards among the populace. Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat was able to celebrate his second K'atun in AD 802 with his own monument, but the king's participation in the K'atun ending ceremony of AD 810 was marked at Quiriguá, not at Copán. By this time the city's population was over 20,000 and it had long needed to import basic necessities from outside.\n\nThe troubled times enveloping Copán at this time are evident from the funerary tomb of Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat, which bears sculptures of the king performing war dances with spear and shield in hand. The sculpted column from the temple shrine has a hieroglyphic text reading \"toppling of the Foundation House\" that may refer to the fall of the Copán dynasty. Shortage and disease afflicted the massively overpopulated valley of Copán when its last known king, Ukit Took', came to the throne on 6 February 822. He commissioned Altar L in the style of Altar Q but the monument was never finished — one face shows the enthronement of the king and a second face was started but two others were completely blank. The long line of kings at the once great city had come to an end. Before the end, even the nobility had been struck by disease, perhaps because epidemics among the malnourished masses spread to the elite. With the end of political authority at the city the population collapsed to a fraction of what it had been at its height. This collapse of the city-state, which people believe occurred sometime between 800 and 830 AD, was sudden. However, the population continued to persist and even flourish between the years 750 and 900 AD, and then gradually declined soon thereafter. In the Postclassic period the valley was occupied by villagers who stole the stone from the monumental architecture of the city in order to build their simple house platforms.\n\nThe first post-Spanish conquest mention of Copán was in an early colonial period letter dated 8 March 1576. The letter was written by Diego García de Palacio, a member of the Royal Audience of Guatemala, to king Philip II of Spain. French explorer Jean-Frédéric Waldeck visited the site in the early 19th century and spent a month there drawing the ruins. Colonel Juan Galindo led an expedition to the ruins in 1834 on behalf of the government of Guatemala and wrote articles about the site for English, French and North American publications. John Lloyd Stephens and Frederick Catherwood visited Copán and included a description, map and detailed drawings in Stephens' \"Incidents of Travel in Central America, Chiapas and Yucatán\", published in 1841. The site was later visited by British archaeologist Alfred Maudslay. Several expeditions sponsored by the Peabody Museum of Harvard University worked at Copán during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, including the 1892–1893 excavation of the Hieroglyphic Stairway by John G. Owens and George Byron Gordon. The Carnegie Institution also sponsored work at the site in conjunction with the government of Honduras.\n\nThe Copán buildings suffered significantly from forces of nature in the centuries between the site's abandonment and the rediscovery of the ruins. After the abandonment of the city the Copán River gradually changed course, with a meander destroying the eastern portion of the acropolis (revealing in the process its archaeological stratigraphy in a large vertical cut) and apparently washing away various subsidiary architectural groups, including at least one courtyard and 10 buildings from Group 10L–2. The cut is an important archaeological feature at the site, with the natural erosion having created an enormous cross-section of the acropolis. This erosion cut away a large portion of the eastern part of the acropolis and revealed a vertical cross-section that measures high at its tallest point and long. Several buildings recorded in the 19th century were destroyed, plus an unknown amount of the acropolis that was eroded before it could be recorded. In order to avoid further destruction of the acropolis, the Carnegie Institution redirected the river to save the archaeological site, diverting it southwards in the 1930s; the dry former riverbed was finally filled in at the same time as consolidation of the cut in 1990s. Structures 10L–19, 20, 20A and 21 were all destroyed by the Copán River as it eroded the site away, but had been recorded by investigators in the 19th century.\n\nCopán was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1980, and UNESCO approved funding of US$95,825 between 1982 and 1999 for various works at the site Looting remains a serious threat to Copán. A tomb was looted in 1998 as it was being excavated by archaeologists.\n\nThe Copán site is known for a series of portrait stelae, most of which were placed along processional ways in the central plaza of the city and the adjoining acropolis, a large complex of overlapping step-pyramids, plazas, and palaces. The site has a large court for playing the Mesoamerican ballgame.\n\nThe site is divided into various groups, with the Main Group and the Cemetery Group in the site core linked by a sacbe to the Sepulturas Group to the northeast. Central Copán had a density of 1449 structures per square kilometer (), while in greater Copán as a whole this density fell to over a surveyed area of .\n\nThe Main Group represents the core of the ancient city and covers an area of . The main features are the Acropolis, which is a raised royal complex on the south side, and a group of smaller structures and linked plazas to the north, including the Hieroglyphic Stairway and the ballcourt. The Monument Plaza contains the greatest concentration of sculpted monuments at the site.\n\nThe Acropolis was the royal complex at the heart of Copán. It consists of two plazas that have been named the West Court and the East Court. They are both enclosed by elevated structures. Archaeologists have excavated extensive tunnels under the Acropolis, revealing how the royal complex at the heart of Copán developed over the centuries and uncovering several hieroglyphic texts that date back to the Early Classic and verify details of the early dynastic rulers of the city who were recorded on Altar Q hundreds of years later. The deepest of these tunnels have revealed that the first monumental structures underlying the Acropolis date archaeologically to the early 5th century AD, when K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' established the royal dynasty. These early buildings were built of stone and adobe and were themselves built upon earlier earth and cobble structures dating to the predynastic period. The two styles of building overlap somewhat, with some of the earthen structures being expanded during the first hundred years or so of the dynastic history of the city. The early dynastic masonry buildings of the Acropolis included several with the Early Classic apron-molding style of Tikal and one built in the \"talud-tablero\" style associated with Teotihuacan, although at the time the \"talud-tablero\" form was in use at both Tikal and Kaminaljuyu as well as in Central Mexico.\n\nStructure 10L-4 is a platform with four stairways situated by the Monument Plaza.\nStructure 10L-11 is on the west side of the Acropolis. It encloses the south side of the Court of the Hieroglyphic Stairway and is accessed from it by a wide monumental stairway. This structure appears to have been the royal palace of Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat, the 16th ruler in the dynastic succession and the last known king of Copán. Structure 10L-11 was built on top of several earlier structures, one of which probably contains the tomb of his predecessor K'ak' Yipyaj Chan K'awiil. A small tunnel descends into the interior of the structure, possibly to the tomb, but it has not yet been excavated by archaeologists. Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat built a new temple platform over his predecessor's tomb in AD 769. On top of this he placed a two-storey superstructure with a sculpted roof depicting the mythological cosmos. At each of its northern corners was a large sculpted Pawatun (a group of deities that supported the heavens). This superstructure had four doorways with panels of hieroglyphs sculpted directly onto the walls of the building. A bench inside the structure, removed by Maudslay in the nineteenth century and now in the British Museum's collection, once depicted the king's accession to the throne, overseen by deities and ancestors.\n\nStructure 10L-16 (Temple 16) is a temple pyramid that is the highest part of the Acropolis. It is located between the East and West Courts at the heart of the ancient city. The temple faces the West Court within the Acropolis and is dedicated to K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo', the dynastic founder. The temple was placed on top of the original palace and tomb of the king. It is the final version of a number of temples built on top of each other, as was common practice in Mesoamerica. The earliest version of this temple is nicknamed Hunal; it was built in the talud-tablero style of architecture that was typical of Teotihuacan, with traces of brightly colored murals on the surviving traces of the interior walls. The king was buried in a vaulted crypt that was cut into the floor of the Hunal phase of the building, accompanied by rich offerings of jade. K'inich Popol Hol, son of the founder, demolished the palace of his father and built a platform on top of his tomb, named Yehnal by archaeologists. It was built in a distinctively Petén Maya style and bore large masks of K'inich Tajal Wayib', the sun god, which were painted red. This platform was encased within another much larger platform within a decade of its construction. This larger platform has been named Margarita and had stucco panels flanking its access stairway that bore entwined images of quetzals and macaws, which both form a part of K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo's name. The Margarita phase contained a tomb with the richly accompanied burial of an elderly woman nicknamed the \"Lady in Red\". It is likely that she was the widow of K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' and the mother of K'inich Popol Hol. The upper chamber of the Margarita phase temple was converted to receive offerings and the unusual Xukpi stone, a dedicatory monument used in one of the earlier phases, was reused in this later phase.\nOne of the best preserved phases of Temple 16 is the Rosalila, built over the remains of five previous versions of the temple. Archaeologist Ricardo Agurcia discovered the almost intact shrine while tunneling underneath the final version of the temple. Rosalila is notable for its excellent state of preservation, including the entire building from the base platform up to the roof comb, including its highly elaborate painted stucco decoration. Rosalila features K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' placed at the centre of a mythological tableau, combining the founder of the dynasty with the sky deity Itzamna in avian form. The mythological imagery also includes anthropomorphic mountains, skeletons and crocodiles. Vents in the exterior were designed so smoke from incense being burned inside the shrine would interact with the stucco sculpture of the exterior. The temple had a hieroglyphic stone step with a dedicatory inscription. The stone step is less well preserved than the rest of the building, but a date in AD 571 has been deciphered. Due to the deforestation of the Copán valley, the Rosalila building was the last structure at the site to use such elaborate stucco decoration — vast quantities of firewood could no longer be spared to reduce limestone to plaster. A life-size copy of the Rosalila building has been built at the Copán site museum.\n\nUaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil encased the Rosalila phase under a new version of the building in the early 8th century AD. An offering was made as part of the rites to terminate the old phase and included a collection of eccentric flints worked into the profiles of humans and gods, which were wrapped in blue-dyed textiles.\n\nStructure 10L-18 is on the southeastern side of the Acropolis and has been damaged by the erosion caused by the Copán River, having lost its eastern side. Stairs on the south side of the structure lead down to a vaulted tomb that was looted in ancient times and was probably that of Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat. It was apparently plundered soon after the collapse of the Copán kingdom. Unusually for Copán, the summit shrine had four sculpted panels depicting the king performing war dances with spear and shield, emphasizing the rising tensions as the dynasty came to its end.\nTemples 10L-20 and 10L-21 were probably both built by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil. They were lost to the Copán River in the early 20th century.\n\nStructure 10L-22 is a large building on the north side of the East Court, in the Acropolis, and faces onto it. It dates to the reign of Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil and is the best preserved of the buildings from his rule. The superstructure of the building has an interior doorway with an elaborate sculpted frame and decorated with masks of the mountain god \"Witz\". The outer doorway is framed by the giant mask of a deity, and has stylistic similarities with the Chenes regional style of distant Yucatán. The temple was built to celebrate the completion of the king's first K'atun in power, in AD 715, and has a hieroglyphic step with a first-person phrase \"I completed my K'atun\". The building symbolically represents the mountain where maize was created.\n\nStructure 10L-25 is in the East Court of the Acropolis. It covers a rich royal tomb nicknamed Sub-Jaguar by archaeologists. It is presumed to be the tomb of either Ruler 7 (B'alam Nehn), Ruler 8 or Ruler 9, who all ruled in the first half of the 6th century AD.\nStructure 10L-26 is a temple that projects northwards from the Acropolis and is immediately to the north of Structure 10L-22. The structure was built by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil and K'ak' Yipyaj Chan K'awiil, the 13th and 15th rulers in the dynastic succession. The wide Hieroglyphic Stairway ascends the building on the west side from the courtyard below. The earliest version of the temple, nicknamed Yax, was built during the reign of K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo', the dynastic founder, and has architectural features (such as inset corners) that are characteristic of Tikal and the central Petén region. The next phase of the building was built by Yax K'uk' Mo's son K'inich Popol Hol and is nicknamed Motmot. This phase of the structure was more elaborate and was decorated with stucco. Set under the building was the Motmot capstone, covering a tomb with the unusual Teotihuacan-style burial of a woman, accompanied by a wide variety of offerings that included animal bones, mercury, jade and quartz, along with three severed human heads, all of which were male. Ku Ix built a new phase of the building over Motmot, nicknamed Papagayo.\n\nSmoke Imix demolished the Papagayo phase and ritually interred the broken remains of its sculpted monuments, accompanied by stone macaw heads from an early version of the ballcourt. He then built a pyramid over the earlier phases, nicknamed Mascarón by archaeologists. It in turn was developed into the Chorcha pyramid with the addition of a long superstructure with seven doorways at the front and back. Before a new building was built over the top, the upper sanctuary was demolished and a tomb was inserted into the floor and covered with 11 large stone slabs. The tomb contained the remains of an adult male and a sacrificed child. The adult's badly decayed skeleton was wrapped in a mat and accompanied by offerings of fine jade, including ear ornaments and a necklace of sculpted figurines. The burial was accompanied by offerings of 44 ceramic vessels, jaguar pelts, spondylus shells, 10 paintpots and one or more hieroglyphic books, now decayed. There were also 12 ceramic incense burners with lids modeled into human figurines, thought to represent Smoke Imix and his 11 dynastic predecessors. The Chorcha building was dedicated to the long-lived 7th-century king Smoke Imix and it is therefore likely that the remains interred in the building are his. Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil had sealed the Chorcha phase under a new version of the temple, nicknamed Esmeralda, by AD 710. The new phase bore the first version of the Hieroglyphic Stairway, which contains a lengthy dynastic history. K'ak' Yipyaj Chan K'awiil built over the Esmeralda phase in the mid-8th century. He removed the Hieroglyphic Stairway from the earlier building and reinstalled it into his own version, while doubling the length of its text and adding five life-size statues of rulers dressed in the garb of Teotihuacano warriors, each seated on a step of the stairway. At the base of the stairway, he also raised Stela M, with his own image. The summit shrine of the temple bore a hieroglyphic text composed of full-figure hieroglyphs, each placed beside a similar glyph in faux-Mexican style, giving the appearance of a bilingual text.\nThe Hieroglyphic Stairway climbs the west side of Structure 10L-26. It is wide and has a total of 62 steps. Stela M and its associated altar are at its base and a large sculpted figure is located in the centre of every 12th step. These figures are believed to represent the most important rulers in the dynastic history of the site. The stairway takes its name from the 2200 glyphs that together form the longest known Maya hieroglyphic text. The text is still being reconstructed, having been scrambled by the collapse of the glyphic blocks when the façade of the temple collapsed. The staircase measures long and was first built by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil in AD 710, being reinstalled and expanded in the following phase of the temple by K'ak' Yipyaj Chan K'awiil in AD 755.\n\nThe Ballcourt is immediately north of the Court of the Hieroglyphic Stairway and is to the south of the Monument Plaza. It was remodeled by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil, who then demolished it and built a third version, which was one of the largest from the Classic period. It was dedicated to the great macaw deity and the buildings flanking the playing area carried 16 mosaic sculptures of the birds. The completion date of the ballcourt is inscribed with a hieroglyphic text upon the sloping playing area and is given as 6 January 738.\n\nThe Monument Plaza or Great Plaza is on the north side of the Main Group.\n\nThe Sepulturas Group is linked by a \"sacbe\" or causeway that runs southwest to the Monument Plaza in the Main Group. The Sepulturas Group consists of a number of restored structures, mostly elite residences that feature stone benches, some of which have carved decorations, and a number of tombs.\n\nThe group has a very long occupational history, with one house having been dated as far back as the Early Preclassic. By the Middle Preclassic, large platforms were being built from cobbles and several rich burials were made. By AD 800, the complex consisted of about 50 buildings arranged around 7 major courtyards. At this time, the most important building was the \"House of the Bakabs\", the palace of a powerful nobleman from the time of Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat. The building has a high-quality sculpted exterior and a carved hieroglyphic bench inside. A portion of the group was a subdistrict occupied by non-Maya inhabitants from Central Honduras who were involved in the trade network that brought in goods from that region.\n\nThe North Group is a Late Classic compound. Archaeologists have excavated fallen façades that bear hieroglyphic inscriptions and sculpted decoration.\n\nThe Cemetery Group is immediately south of the Main Group and includes a number of small structures and plazas.\n\nAltar Q is the most famous monument at Copán. It was dedicated by king Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat in AD 776 and has each of the first 16 kings of the Copán dynasty carved around its side. Each figure is depicted seated on his name glyph. A hieroglyphic text is inscribed on the upper surface, relating the founding of the dynasty in AD 426–427. On one side, it shows the dynastic founder K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' transferring power to Yax Pasaj. Tatiana Proskouriakoff first discovered the inscription on the West Side of Altar Q that tells us the date of the inauguration of Yax Pasaj. This portrayal of political succession tells us much about Early Classic Maya culture.\n\nThe Motmot Capstone is an inscribed stone that was placed over a tomb under Structure 10L-26. Its face was finely sculpted with portraits of the first two kings of the Copán dynasty, K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' and K'inich Popol Hol, facing towards each other with a double column of hieroglyphs between them, all contained within a quatrefoil frame. The frame and the hieroglyphic names of mythological locations underneath the feet of the two kings place them in a supernatural realm. The capstone bears two calendrical dates, in AD 435 and AD 441. The second of these is probably the date that the capstone was dedicated.\n\nThe Xukpi Stone is a dedicatory monument from one of the earlier phases of the 10L-16 temple constructed to honor K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo'. It bears the date of AD 437 and the names both K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' and K'inich Popol Hol, together with a possible mention of the Teotihuacan general Siyaj K'ak'. The monument has not been completely deciphered and its style and phrasing are unusual. Originally it was used as a sculpted bench or step and the date on the monument is associated with the dedication of a funerary temple or a tomb, probably the tomb of K'inich' Yax K'uk' Mo', which was discovered underneath the same structure.\n\nStela 2 was erected in the Great Plaza by Smoke Imix in AD 652.\n\nStela 3 is another stela erected by Smoke Imix in the Great Plaza in AD 652.\n\nStela 4 was erected by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil in the early 8th century AD.\n\nStela 7 dates to the reign of K'ak' Chan Yopaat, and was erected to celebrate the K'atun-ending ceremony of AD 613. It was found in the western complex now underneath the modern village of Copán Ruinas. It bears a long hieroglyphic text that has been only partially deciphered.\n\nStela 9 was found in the modern village of Copán Ruinas, where it had been erected on the site of a major Classic period complex outside of the site core. It was dedicated by Moon Jaguar and dates to AD 564.\n\nStela 10 was erected outside of the site core by Smoke Imix in AD 652.\n\nStela 11 was originally an interior column from Temple 18, the funerary shrine of Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat. When it was found, it was broken in two parts at the base of the temple. It portrays the king as the elderly Maya maize god and has imagery that seems to deliberately parallel the tomb lid of the Palenque king K'inich Janaab' Pakal, probably because of Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat's close family ties to that city. The text of the column formed part of a longer text carved onto the interior walls of the temple and may describe the downfall of the Copán dynasty.\n\nStela 12 was erected outside of the site core by Smoke Imix in AD 652.\n\nStela 13 was erected outside the site core by Smoke Imix in AD 652.\n\nStela 15 is dated to AD 524, during the reign of B'alam Nehn. Its sculpture consists entirely of hieroglyphic text, which mentions that king B'alam Nehn was ruling the city by AD 504.\n\nStela 17 dates to AD 554, during the reign of Moon Jaguar. It originally stood in the nearby village of Copán Ruinas, which was a major complex in the Classic period.\n\nStela 18 is a fragment of a monument bearing the name of K'inich Popol Hol. It was erected in the inner chamber of the 10L-26 temple.\n\nStela 19 is a monument erected outside of the site core by Smoke Imix in AD 652.\n\nStela 63 was dedicated by K'inich Popol Hol. Its sculpture consists purely of finely carved hieroglyphic texts and it is possible that it was originally commissioned by K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' with additional texts added to the sides of the monument by his son. The text contains the same date in AD 435 that appears on the Motmot Capstone. Stela 63 was deliberately broken, together with its hieroglyphic step, during the ritual demolishing of the Papagayo phase of Temple 26. The remains of the monuments were then interred in the building before the next phase was built.\n\nStela A was erected in 731 by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil. It places his rulership among the four most powerful kingdoms in the Maya region, alongside Palenque, Tikal and Calakmul.\n\nStela B was erected by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil in the early 8th century AD.\n\nStela C was erected by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil in the early 8th century AD.\n\nStela D was erected by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil in the early 8th century AD.\n\nStela F was erected by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil in the early 8th century AD.\n\nStela H was erected by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil in the early 8th century AD.\n\nStela J was erected by Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil in AD 702 and was his first monument. It stood at the eastern entrance to the city and is unusual in being topped by a sculpted stone roof, converting the monument into a symbolic house. It bears a hieroglyphic text that is woven into a criss-cross mat design to form a convoluted puzzle that must be read in precisely the right order to be understood.\n\nStela M bears a portrait of K'ak' Yipyaj Chan K'awiil. It was raised at the foot of the Hieroglyphic Stairway of Temple 26 in AD 756.\n\nStela N was dedicated by K'ak' Yipyaj Chan K'awiil in AD 761 and placed at the foot of the steps to Temple 11, which is believed to contain his burial.\n\nStela P was originally erected in an unknown location and was later moved to the West Court of the Acropolis. It bears a long hieroglyphic text that has not yet been fully deciphered. It dates from the reign of king K'ak' Chan Yopaat and was dedicated in AD 623.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23657670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23657670", "title": "Double-sided painting", "text": "Double-sided painting\n\nA double-sided painting is a canvas which has a painting on either side. Historically, artists would often paint on both sides out of need of material. The subject matter of the two paintings was sometimes, although not normally, related.\n"}
{"id": "10113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10113", "title": "Egalitarianism", "text": "Egalitarianism\n\nEgalitarianism () – or equalitarianism – is a school of thought that prioritizes equality for all people. Egalitarian doctrines maintain that all humans are equal in fundamental worth or social status. Egalitarianism is a trend of thought in political philosophy. According to the \"Merriam-Webster Dictionary\", the term has two distinct definitions in modern English: either as a political doctrine that all people should be treated as equals and have the same political, economic, social and civil rights; or as a social philosophy advocating the removal of economic inequalities among people, economic egalitarianism, or the decentralization of power. Some sources define egalitarianism as the point of view that equality reflects the natural state of humanity.\n\nSome specifically focused egalitarian concerns include communism, legal egalitarianism, luck egalitarianism, political egalitarianism, gender egalitarianism, racial equality, equality of outcome and Christian egalitarianism. Common forms of egalitarianism include political and philosophical.\n\nOne argument is that liberalism provides democratic societies with the means to carry out civic reform by providing a framework for developing public policy and thus providing the right conditions for individuals to achieve civil rights.\n\nThe English Bill of Rights of 1689 and the United States Constitution use only the term \"person\" in operative language involving fundamental rights and responsibilities, except for (a) a reference to \"men\" in the English Bill of Rights regarding men on trial for treason; and (b) a rule of proportional Congressional representation in the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nAs the rest of the Constitution, in its operative language the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution uses the term \"person\" stating, for example, that \"[...] nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws\".\n\nAn example of this form is the Tunisian Constitution of 2014 which provides that \"men and women shall be equal in their rights and duties\".\n\nThe motto \"Liberté, égalité, fraternité\" was used during the French Revolution and is still used as an official motto of the French government. The 1789 Rights of Man and of the Citizen French Constitution is framed also with this basis in equal rights of mankind.\n\nThe Declaration of Independence of the United States is an example of an assertion of equality of men, the wording of \"men\" and \"man\" is a reference to both men and women i.e. \"mankind\" all men are created equal\". John Locke is sometimes considered the founder of this form.\n\nMany state constitutions in the United States also use \"rights of man\" language rather than \"rights of person\" since the noun \"man\" has always been a reference to and an inclusion of both men and women.\n\nIt is generally accepted by egalitarians that feminism falls under egalitarianism and that some feminists identify themselves as egalitarian which under the correct definition of the word is equality for both men and women.\n\nAt a cultural level, egalitarian theories have developed in sophistication and acceptance during the past two hundred years. Among the notable broadly egalitarian philosophies are socialism, communism, social anarchism, libertarian socialism, left-libertarianism, and progressivism, some of which propound economic egalitarianism. Several egalitarian ideas enjoy wide support among intellectuals and in the general populations of many countries. However, whether any of these ideas have been significantly implemented in practice remains a controversial question. Anti-egalitarianism or elitism is opposition to egalitarianism.\n\nA very early example of equality of what might be described as outcome economic egalitarianism is the Chinese philosophy of agriculturalism, which held that the economic policies of a country need to be based upon an egalitarian self sufficiency.\n\nIn socialism, social ownership of means of production is sometimes considered to be a form of economic egalitarianism because in an economy characterized by social ownership, the surplus product generated by industry would accrue to the population as a whole as opposed to a class of private owners, thereby granting each individual increased autonomy and greater equality in their relationships with one another. Although the economist Karl Marx is sometimes mistaken to be an egalitarian, Marx eschewed normative theorizing on moral principles altogether. However, Marx did have a theory of the evolution of moral principles in relation to specific economic systems.\n\nThe American economist John Roemer has put forth a new perspective of equality and its relationship to socialism. Roemer attempts to reformulate Marxist analysis to accommodate normative principles of distributive justice, shifting the argument for socialism away from purely technical and materialist reasons to one of distributive justice. Roemer argues that according to the principle of distributive justice, the traditional definition of socialism based on the principle that individual compensation be proportional to the value of the labour one expends in production is inadequate. Roemer concludes that egalitarians must reject socialism as it is classically defined in order for equality to be realized.\n\nMany philosophers, including Ingmar Persson, Peter Vallentyne, Nils Holtug, and Lewis Gompertz have argued that egalitarianism implies that the interests of non-human animals must be taken into account as well. Philosopher Oscar Horta has further argued that \"Egalitarianism implies rejecting speciesism, and in practice it prescribes ceasing to exploit nonhuman animals\" and that we should aid animals suffering in nature. Furthermore, Horta argues that \"because [nonhuman animals] are worse off in comparison to humans, egalitarianism prescribes giving priority to the interests of nonhuman animals.\"\n\nThe Sikh faith was founded upon egalitarian principles, reaffirming the notion of equality not only based upon race, but also between the genders. This equality led to denunciation of sati, the practice of widows sacrificing themselves on the funeral pyres of deceased husband, but which actually occurred due to the wives of warriors preferring to commit self-immolation over becoming the bounty of war for the Central Asians that were waging wars in India and Afghanistan during the early Ghazni wars. The scriptural injunction is often ascribed as providing women in the Sikh faith equal rights to practice their faith and be regarded as created equal in the eyes of God. Whilst the noble premise to strive for egalitarianism, many Sikhs still practice strong tribal casteism, with greater rigidity than the Hindu archetype from which the practice was inherited. Despite the rhetoric of equality, scholars have \"found contradictions in the Sikh rhetoric of equality and widespread discrimination against Sikh's of low castes\". Furthermore, despite many Sikh scholars decreeing the egalitarian tenets of Sikhism, denouncing sexism, female infanticide, dowry, sati or the condemning of widows to a life of solitude and isolation—the reality is these practices have remained prevalent whilst they have long fallen out of favour with the other ethnocultural religious groups in the Indian continent, like Hindus, Buddhists and Jains.\n\nThe Christian egalitarian view holds that the Bible teaches the fundamental equality of people of all racial and ethnic mixes, all economic classes and all age groups, but within the teachings and example of Jesus Christ, God and the overarching principles of scripture.\n\nWithin the wide range of Christianity there are dissenting views to this from opposing groups, some of which are complementarians. There are many that say that the Bible encourages equality and also encourages law and order and social structure (for example, parents having authority over their children and husbands authority over their wives). These ideas are considered by some to be contrary to the ideals of egalitarianism.\n\nJudaism is a universalist religion due to the belief that one God created the entire universe. A further distinction has to be made however. Judaism teaches that Jews (defined as either the biological descendants of Jacob \"Israel\", the son of Isaac and grandson of Abraham or someone who converted) have a specific covenant with God as a chosen people (Deutoronomy 7:6 \"chosen as God's treasured people\") to serve as an example of God's light to the rest of the world. The oral Torah and Rabbinic literature codified in the Talmud makes key distinctions in religious and legal contexts between Jews and the gentiles (literally, \"the nations\"). However, Judaism teaches that all people are the creations of God and are commanded in the seven universal moral laws known as the Seven Laws of Noah. In this aspect, Judaism is universalist in its divine message, but not in its religious obligations. In reform and conservative Judaism, egalitarian refers to nullification of religious gender separations. Synagogues that identify as egalitarian allow mixed seating (i.e. no mechitza) and allow women to lead services with men in attendance as well as read publicly from the Torah.\n\nThe Islamic stance on equality stresses that all humans are equal in the eyes of God, regardless of gender, class and race. The Quran states: \"O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another. Indeed, the most noble of you in the sight of Allah is the most righteous of you. Indeed, Allah is Knowing and Acquainted\". Louise Marlow's \"Hierarchy and Egalitarianism in Islamic Thought\" compares the egalitarianism of early Islam to current practice.\n\nModern egalitarianism is a theory that rejects the classic definition of egalitarianism as a possible achievement economically, politically and socially. Modern egalitarianism theory (or  \"new egalitarianism\") outlines that if everyone had the same opportunity cost, then there would be no comparative advances and no one would gain from trading with each other. In essence, the immense gains people receive from trading with each other arise because they are unequal in characteristics and talents—these differences may be innate or developed so that people can gain from trading with each other.\n\nThe cultural theory of risk holds egalitarianism as defined by (1) a negative attitude towards rules and principles; and (2) a positive attitude towards group decision-making, with fatalism termed as its opposite. The theory distinguishes between hierarchists, who are positive towards both rules and groups; and egalitarianists, who are positive towards groups, but negative towards rules. This is by definition a form of \"anarchist equality\" as referred to by Berkman. The fabric of an \"egalitarianist society\" is thus held together by cooperation and implicit peer pressure rather than by explicit rules and punishment. However, Thompson et al. theorise that any society consisting of only one perspective, be it egalitarianist, hierarchist, individualist, fatalist or autonomist, will be inherently unstable: the claim is that an interplay between all these perspectives are required if each perspective is to be fulfilling. For instance, although an individualist according to cultural theory is aversive towards both principles and groups, individualism is not fulfilling if individual brilliance cannot be recognised by groups, or if individual brilliance cannot be made permanent in the form of principles. Accordingly, egalitarianists have no power except through their presence, unless they (by definition, reluctantly) embrace principles which enable them to cooperate with fatalists and hierarchists. They will also have no individual sense of direction in the absence of a group. This could be mitigated by following individuals outside their group: autonomists or individualists.\n\nAlexander Berkman suggests that \"equality does not mean an equal amount but equal opportunity [...] Do not make the mistake of identifying equality in liberty with the forced equality of the convict camp. True anarchist equality implies freedom, not quantity. It does not mean that every one must eat, drink, or wear the same things, do the same work, or live in the same manner. Far from it: the very reverse in fact [...] Individual needs and tastes differ, as appetites differ. It is equal opportunity to satisfy them that constitutes true equality [...] Far from levelling, such equality opens the door for the greatest possible variety of activity and development. For human character is diverse\".\n\nKarl Marx and Friedrich Engels believed that a revolution would bring about a socialist society which would then eventually give way to a communist stage of social development, which would be a classless, stateless, humane society erected on common ownership and the principle of \"From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs\".\n\nHowever, Marxism rejected egalitarianism in the sense of greater equality between classes, clearly distinguishing it from the socialist notion of the abolition of classes based on the division between workers and owners of productive property. Marx's view of classlessness was not the subordination of society to a universal interest (such as a universal notion of \"equality\"), but was about the creation of the conditions that would enable individuals to pursue their true interests and desires—thus Marx's notion of communist society is radically individualistic.\n\nMarx was a proponent of two principles, the first applied to socialism and the second to an advanced communist society: \"To each according to his contribution\" and \"From each according to their ability, to each according to their needs\". Although Marx's position is often confused or conflated with distributive egalitarianism in which only the goods and services resulting from production are distributed according to a notional equality, in reality Marx eschewed the entire concept of equality as abstract and bourgeois in nature, preferring to focus on more concrete principles such as opposition to exploitation on materialist grounds and economic logic.\n\n"}
{"id": "12845558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12845558", "title": "Elizabeth Redgate", "text": "Elizabeth Redgate\n\nAnne Elizabeth Redgate or A. E. Redgate was born in Lancashire and educated at Bolton School Girls Division and St. Anne's College, Oxford. Since completing her education, she has taught Early Medieval History as a lecturer at the Newcastle University. Her book \"The Armenians\" covers the entire eventful career of the Armenian people occupying the most south-easterly outpost of Europe from their still-mysterious origins around 1165 BC until present day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "237901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237901", "title": "Finland's language strife", "text": "Finland's language strife\n\nThe Language Strife () was a major conflict in mid-19th century Finland. Both the Swedish and Finnish languages were commonly used in Finland at the time, associated with descendants of Swedish colonisation and leading to class tensions among the speakers of the different languages. It became acute in the mid-19th century. The competition was considered to have officially ended when Finnish gained official language status in 1923 and became equal to the Swedish language.\n\nFinland had once been under Swedish rule (Sweden-Finland). Swedish (with some Latin) was the language of administration and education in the Swedish Realm. Swedish was therefore the most-used language of administration and higher education among the Finns. To gain higher education, one had to learn Swedish, and Finnish was considered by the upper classes to be a \"language of peasants\". Immigration of Swedish peasants to Finland's coastal regions also boosted the status of Swedish by sheer number of speakers. Although Mikael Agricola had started written Finnish with \"Abckiria\" in the 1500s, and a Finnish translation of the Civil Code of 1734 was published in 1759 (\"Ruotzin waldacunnan laki\"), it had no official status as a legal publication since the official language of administration was Swedish.\n\nAs a result of the Finnish War, Sweden ceded Finland to Russia in 1809. Finland became the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland within the Russian Empire. Under Russian rule, the laws of the Sweden–Finland era remained largely unchanged, and Swedish continued to be used in administration.\n\nThe language strife became more acute in the second half of the 19th century. Johan Vilhelm Snellman, a Swede who wished to increase education in Finland, became a chief initiator of conflict in the 1850s due to his concern about the changing language use among the educated classes, many of whom were using Russian or Finnish. He wrote to Zachris Topelius in 1860: \"My view is this: Whether Russian or Finnish will win, only God knows. I dare not hope for anything. But that Swedish will lose - that I do know.\" Elias Lönnrot compiled the first Finnish-Swedish dictionary (\"Finsk-Svenskt lexikon\"), completing it in 1880.\n\nThe rise of Fennomanic Finnish nationalism in the 19th century eventually led to the revived predominance of Finnish use in the country. A significant contribution to the Finnish national awakening from the mid-19th century onward came from the members of the mostly Swedish-speaking upper classes deliberately choosing to promote Finnish culture and language. Snellman was himself was an ethnic Swede and was later ennobled. These Finnish Swedes, known as the Fennomans, Fennicized their family names, learned Finnish, and made a point of using Finnish both in public and at home. However, another group of the Swedish-speaking population, the Svecomans, did not wish to abandon Swedish and opposed the Fennoman ideology and Fennoman-inspired reforms.\n\nIn 1863 Alexander II (AsK 26/1863) ruled that Finnish had an official language status comparable to that of Swedish; it could thereafter be used in an official capacity in legal and state office matters. Within a generation, the Finnish language use gained predominance in the government and the society of Finland. \n\nDuring the Russification of Finland, Tsar Nicholas II attempted to change the official language to Russian (\"Language Manifesto of 1900\"), but Russification was halted by the general strike of 1905.\n\nAfter Finland gained independence in 1917, its relations with Sweden unexpectedly became strained in connection with the Finnish Civil War and the Åland crisis. These events aggravated the language dispute, and the controversy over Swedish and Finnish became a prominent feature of domestic politics during the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nIn the newly independent Finnish constitution of 1919, Finnish and Swedish were given equal status as national languages. The language strife thereafter centered on this and on the role of Swedish in universities, particularly regarding the number of professors who spoke and wrote in Swedish in their teaching. In the interwar period, the University of Helsinki was the scene of conflict between those who wanted to advance the use of Finnish and those who wished to maintain the use of Swedish. Geographer Väinö Tanner was one of the most vocal defenders of Swedish. A campaign initiated by the Swedish People's Party of Finland collected 153,914 signatures in defense of Swedish in a petition that was presented to the parliament and government in October 1934. The conflict at the university generated an international reaction when academics from Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and Iceland sent letters to the diplomatic representatives of Finland in their respective countries warning that diminishing the role of Swedish at the university would result in a weakening of Nordic unity.\n\nThe government issued a language decree on 1 January 1923 making Finnish and Swedish equal in status.\nDuring the resettlement of more than 420,000 Karelian refugees after the Winter War against the Soviet Union (1939–1940), the Swedish-speaking minority feared that the new Finnish-speaking settlers would change the linguistic balance of their neighborhoods. Since the late 20th century, there has been discussion of whether the policy of mandatory Swedish classes in schools should continue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47515382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47515382", "title": "Gender Wars", "text": "Gender Wars\n\nGender Wars is a real-time tactics action game developed by The 8th Day and Sales Curve and published for MS-DOS by GT Interactive Software and Sales Curve Interactive in 1996.\n\nThe player controls a squad leader and any of his or her members, as they kill enemies, destroy enemy facilities, or retrieve devices. However, the player will have to control each member at a time, as they have difficulty navigating by themselves.\n\nIn the future, after an era of \"Political Correctness and equality\", humanity is divided into two hostile factions. Each faction represents one of humanity's two genders, the Males (who are ruled by a Patriarch) and the Females (who are ruled by a Matriarch), both of which behave in stereotypical manners (for instance, the Males being crude and focusing too much of drinking beer, the Females being easily distracted by fashion-related merchandise), and which may try to eliminate each other and capture each other's rulers. Either faction sometimes conduct raids against the other faction to steal reproductive cells, in order to produce more members for each side.\n\nThe player has to choose between the Male faction (who tries to capture the Matriarch) or the Female faction (who tries to capture the Patriarch). Regardless of the player's initial choice, the victorious faction of the two will put the remaining members of the defeated faction into servitude. The game ends by mentioning a rebellion caused by men and women working together, taking place a few years after the end of the Gender Wars.\n\nGameSpot gave \"Gender Wars\" a \"Fair\" review score of 6.6/10, opining it is \"a solid arcade strategy game that doesn't require lots of concentration, and has enough depth to keep things interesting. This basic premise, along with the game's original story line, good video and sound, and surprisingly good gameplay, make for a very engaging title.\" A retrospective by Richard Cobbett of \"PC Gamer\" called it \"a rubbish \"Syndicate\" wannabe,\" one which still handles its subject \"better than \"Rex Nebular and the Cosmic Gender Bender\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5639037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5639037", "title": "Gin and Beer", "text": "Gin and Beer\n\nGin and Beer are two wooden statues on display at the Tower of London. They reside in the White Tower and represent the two most important alcoholic beverages of the time. They are believed to have originally been placed in the great hall at Palace of Placentia in Greenwich.\n\nThe beverages are mentioned together in the Rudyard Kipling poem Gunga Din: \"You may talk o' \"gin and beer\" When you're quartered safe out 'ere,\"\n"}
{"id": "33831766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33831766", "title": "Global Media and Communication", "text": "Global Media and Communication\n\nGlobal Media and Communication is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of communication studies. The editors-in-chief are Daya K. Thussu (University of Westminster), John Downing (Southern Illinois University), Des Freedman (Goldsmiths), Clemencia Rodríguez (University of Oklahoma), and Yuezhi Zhao. It was established in 2005 and is currently published by SAGE Publications.\n\n\"Global Media and Communication\" is abstracted and indexed in the following databases:\n"}
{"id": "10841655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10841655", "title": "Gold lunula", "text": "Gold lunula\n\nThe Gold lunula (plural: lunulae) is a distinctive type of late Neolithic, Chalcolithic or (most often) early Bronze Age necklace or collar shaped like a crescent moon. They are normally flat and thin, with roundish spatulate terminals that are often twisted to 45 to 90 degrees from the plane of the body. Gold lunulae fall into three distinct groups, termed Classical, Unaccomplished and Provincial by archaeologists. Most have been found in Ireland, but there are moderate numbers in other parts of Europe as well, from Great Britain to areas of the continent fairly near the Atlantic coasts. Although no lunula has been directly dated, from associations with other artefacts it is thought they were being made sometime in the period between 2200–2000 BC; a wooden box associated with one Irish find has recently given a radiocarbon dating range of 2460–2040 BC.\n\nOf the more than a hundred gold lunulae known from Western Europe, more than eighty are from Ireland; it is possible they were all the work of a handful of expert goldsmiths, though the three groups are presumed to have had different creators. Several examples have a heavily crinkled appearance suggesting that they had been rolled up at some point. One Irish example, from Ballinagroun, has had its original Classical engraved decoration beaten over to erase it (not quite successfully), and then a new Unaccomplished scheme added (see below for these classifications). This and the fact that it had been folded over several times suggest that it had been in use for a long time before it was deposited. The first two examples illustrated show roughly the range of widths of the lowest part of the lunula that is found. Finds in graves are rare, perhaps suggesting they were regarded as clan or group property rather than personal possessions, and though some were found in bogs, perhaps suggesting ritual deposits, more were found on higher ground, often under standing stones.\n\nMost gold lunulae have decorative patterns very much resembling beaker pottery from roughly the same period, using geometrical patterns made up of straight lines, with zig-zags and criss-cross patterns, and many different axes of symmetry. The curving edges of the lunula are generally followed by curving border-lines, often with decoration between them. The decoration is typically most dense at the tips and edges, and the broad lower central area is often undecorated between the borders. The decoration also resembles that on amber and jet spacer necklaces, which are thought to be slightly later in date.\n\nGold lunulae have been classified into groups as follows:\n\nIt used to thought that these groups were produced in chronological sequence, but this is now much less certain, although the Ballinagroun lunula does show Unaccomplished decoration replacing Classical when it was reworked. In one large sample of 39 lunulae, the 19 Classical averaged 54 grams, with the 12 Unaccomplished averaging 40 gm. Finds of Classical lunulae are concentrated in the north of Ireland, probably near the sources of gold, with Unaccomplished find spots mostly forming a \"peripheral border\" around this area. A few Classical lunulae have been found on the north Cornish coast and in southern Scotland.\n\nThree Provincial lunulae were discovered in Kerivoa, Brittany (Kerivoa-en-Bourbriac, Côtes-d'Armor) in the remains of a box with some sheet gold and a rod of gold. The rod had its terminals hammered flat in the manner of the lunuae. From this it is thought that Lunulae were made by hammering a rod of gold flat so it became sheet-like and fitted the desired shape. Decoration was then applied by impressing designs with a stylus. The stylus used often leaves tell-tale impressions on the surface of the gold and it is thought that all the lunulae from Kerivoa, and another two from Saint-Potan, Brittany and Harlyn Bay, Cornwall were all made with the same tool. This suggests that all five lunulae were the work of one craftsperson and the contents of the Kerivoa box their tools of trade.\n\nLunulae were probably replaced as neck ornaments firstly by gold torcs, found from the Irish Middle Bronze Age, and then in the Late Bronze Age by the spectacular gorgets of thin ribbed gold, some with round discs at the side, of which 9 examples survive, 7 in the National Museum of Ireland.\n\nThe shape is sometimes found into the Iron Age, now also in silver, though the relation to the much earlier Bronze Age lunulae may be tenuous. A bronze example from the Welsh Llyn Cerrig Bach lake deposit (200 BC – 100 AD) has an embossed medallion with a triskele-based design in Celtic La Tène style, although it lacks the fastening at the back and has holes that are presumably for fixing it to a surface. It has been suggested it fitted around the pole of a chariot, or was attached to a shield, or worn by a statue. Two silver examples from Chão de Lamas in Portugal of about the 2nd century BC should perhaps be considered as flattened and widened torcs; similar pieces are worn by figures in sculpture from the same culture.\n\nThe known corpus continues to expand slowly. The UK Portable Antiquities Scheme has recorded three incomplete finds in England in recent years, in 2008, 2012 and 2014, the last only missing one terminal. In 2009 the Coggalbeg hoard surfaced in Ireland; it had actually been discovered in 1945 when cutting peat, but kept hidden. The hoard, including a lunula of the Classical type, is now in the National Museum of Ireland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "174782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174782", "title": "Gravitational field", "text": "Gravitational field\n\nIn physics, a gravitational field is a model used to explain the influence that a massive body extends into the space around itself, producing a force on another massive body. Thus, a gravitational field is used to explain gravitational phenomena, and is measured in newtons per kilogram (N/kg). In its original concept, gravity was a force between point masses. Following Isaac Newton, Pierre-Simon Laplace attempted to model gravity as some kind of radiation field or fluid, and since the 19th century explanations for gravity have usually been taught in terms of a field model, rather than a point attraction.\n\nIn a field model, rather than two particles attracting each other, the particles distort spacetime via their mass, and this distortion is what is perceived and measured as a \"force\". In such a model one states that matter moves in certain ways in response to the curvature of spacetime, and that there is either \"no gravitational force\", or that gravity is a fictitious force.\n\nIn classical mechanics as in physics, a gravitational field is a physical quantity. A gravitational field can be defined using Newton's law of universal gravitation. Determined in this way, the gravitational field around a single particle of mass is a vector field consisting at every point of a vector pointing directly towards the particle. The magnitude of the field at every point is calculated applying the universal law, and represents the force per unit mass on any object at that point in space. Because the force field is conservative, there is a scalar potential energy per unit mass, , at each point in space associated with the force fields; this is called gravitational potential. The gravitational field equation is\n\nwhere is the gravitational force, is the mass of the test particle, is the position of the test particle, is a unit vector in the direction of , is time, is the gravitational constant, and is the del operator.\n\nThis includes Newton's law of universal gravitation, and the relation between gravitational potential and field acceleration. Note that and are both equal to the gravitational acceleration (equivalent to the inertial acceleration, so same mathematical form, but also defined as gravitational force per unit mass). The negative signs are inserted since the force acts antiparallel to the displacement. The equivalent field equation in terms of mass density of the attracting mass is:\n\nwhich contains Gauss's law for gravity, and Poisson's equation for gravity. Newton's and Gauss's law are mathematically equivalent, and are related by the divergence theorem. Poisson's equation is obtained by taking the divergence of both sides of the previous equation. These classical equations are differential equations of motion for a test particle in the presence of a gravitational field, i.e. setting up and solving these equations allows the motion of a test mass to be determined and described.\n\nThe field around multiple particles is simply the vector sum of the fields around each individual particle. An object in such a field will experience a force that equals the vector sum of the forces it would experience in these individual fields. This is mathematically\n\ni.e. the gravitational field on mass is the sum of all gravitational fields due to all other masses \"m\", except the mass itself. The unit vector is in the direction of .\n\nIn general relativity, the Christoffel symbols play the role of the gravitational force field and the metric tensor plays the role of the gravitational potential.\n\nIn general relativity, the gravitational field is determined by solving the Einstein field equations\n\nHere is the stress–energy tensor, is the Einstein tensor, and is the speed of light,\n\nThese equations are dependent on the distribution of matter and energy in a region of space, unlike Newtonian gravity, which is dependent only on the distribution of matter. The fields themselves in general relativity represent the curvature of spacetime. General relativity states that being in a region of curved space is equivalent to accelerating up the gradient of the field. By Newton's second law, this will cause an object to experience a fictitious force if it is held still with respect to the field. This is why a person will feel himself pulled down by the force of gravity while standing still on the Earth's surface. In general the gravitational fields predicted by general relativity differ in their effects only slightly from those predicted by classical mechanics, but there are a number of easily verifiable differences, one of the most well known being the bending of light in such fields.\n"}
{"id": "41595496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41595496", "title": "Hargeysa International Book Fair", "text": "Hargeysa International Book Fair\n\nThe Hargeysa International Book Fair (HIBF) () is an annual cultural event in the northwestern Somaliland region of Somalia. It is one of the largest public book fairs in the Horn of Africa. Every summer, HIBF brings writers, poets, artists and thinkers from Somaliland and from all over the world gather to share and discuss their art and literary productions with a wider audience. The main goal of the festival is to promote a culture of reading and writing in the region by producing and publishing high quality Somali literature and translating international classical literature (including fiction, poetry and drama) into Somali. Organized by the Redsea Online Culture Foundation, the event aims to enable young people to access a range of cultural heritages, with the intention of stimulating the revival of all forms of art and human expression, including painting, poetry reciting, story-telling, drama composition and writing.\n\nThe Hargeysa International Book Fair was inaugurated in 2008 by Jama Musse Jama, who serves as Director. It grew from 200 to 10,000 participants over the following six years.\n\nHIBF targets not only a young audience, but wider sectors of society. It aims to help foster cultural understanding, tolerance, democracy, and an appreciation of the diversity of Somali culture and literature. In the past few years, the Redsea Online Culture Foundation's festivals have served to raise the profile of reading and writing in the Somaliland region, and also unite youth from different provinces in the area. The main goal of the book fair is to promote critically thinking cultural and creative writing, to facilitate the habit of reading, to display books, from both local and writers abroad, to encourage members in the public to browse, read, engage with authors, serve as an inspiration to young people, and the wider society.\n\n\"Somaliland Moving Library\": The Moving Library Tour is the Book Fair's flagship outreach event. An exciting initiative, it takes place a week before the opening of the festival in Hargeisa and is held across all regions of Somaliland. It aims to bring the ethos and principles of the Book Fair – of citizenship and creative freedoms – closer to aspiring writers and readers outside of the city.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37126388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37126388", "title": "Harvest of Empire: A History of Latinos in America", "text": "Harvest of Empire: A History of Latinos in America\n\nHarvest of Empire: The Untold Story of Latinos in America is a 2012 feature-length documentary film based on the book \"Harvest of Empire: A History of Latinos in America,\" written by journalist Juan González. The film was directed by Peter Getzels and Eduardo López, and premiered in New York and Los Angeles on September 28.\n\nThe film examines the role of the United States military and economic interests in Latin American countries. It documents the relationship between United States' intervention in the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Nicaragua, and El Salvador, and the surge of migration from those nations. It links this exodus to the present massive Latino population in the United States. Also discussed are the wars fought by United States resulting in colonial expansion into Puerto Rico, Cuba, and over half of Mexico. It documents the covert actions by the United States to install dictatorships in the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Nicaragua, and El Salvador.\n\nThe film features interviews with Nobel Prize winner Rigoberta Menchú, Jesse Jackson, executive director of the ACLU Anthony Romero, Junot Diaz, Lorenzo Meyer, Maria Hinojosa, Geraldo Rivera, musician Luis Enrique, Border Angels founder Enrique Morones and poet Martin Espada.\n\n"}
{"id": "24989989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24989989", "title": "Interdisciplinary arts", "text": "Interdisciplinary arts\n\nInterdisciplinary Arts is an academic department in the School of Media Arts at Columbia College Chicago. As one of the earliest interdisciplinary arts programs in the United States, it has been an incubator for new approaches towards art making that has shaped the development of arts professionals for over thirty-three years. Guided by the principle that interdisciplinarity \"is a defining characteristic of contemporary art practice\" and \"a necessary prerequisite for those artists who will shape the future of creative practice\", the artists who work in the Interdisciplinary Arts department investigate new terrain.\n\nExamining concepts, forms and techniques from across the fine, performing and media arts, students work with a diverse array of unique and experimental approaches that interrogate artist books, installations, gesture and movement, sound art, durational performance, interactive media, video, performance media, papermaking, letterpress, etching and offset printing, electronically controlled artworks, online artwork, performance in artificial spaces, democratic multiples, written, spoken and performed text, dramatic forms, DIY/DIT collaborative strategies and relational art forms.\n\nInterdisciplinary Arts was formulated in Chicago Il, 1976, by Suzanne Cohan-Lange, Jean Unsworth, and Rebecca Ruben. Originally accepted by the Chicago Consortium of Colleges as a program taught across several universities, in 1981, it was established as a department with a permanent home at Columbia College Chicago. At that time, the Interdisciplinary Arts MA program was formalized within the context of the department. Since then, two MFA degrees were added: the Interdisciplinary Book & Paper Arts MFA, launched in 1994; and the Interdisciplinary Arts & Media MFA, launched in 2002. The founding of the Interdisciplinary Arts program is preceded by the undergraduate program in the Studio for Interrelated Media program founded by Harris Barron in 1969 at the Massachusetts College of Art and Design in Boston.\n\nThe Interdisciplinary Arts MA is for art teachers who want to expand their repertoire of techniques, as well as assist practicing artists in expanding their practice to include new media. It is immersed in the five traditional art media that make up the heart of the program: visual art, movement, sound, writing, and drama.\n\nThe Interdisciplinary Book & Paper Arts MFA program enables students to participate in the contemporary art world by encouraging them to consider book and paper as a site for interdisciplinary practice. It promotes the understanding of hand papermaking and the book arts as artistic media with applications in cultural discourse, community building, and collaborative practice.\n\nThe Interdisciplinary Arts & Media MFA fosters an innovative dialog between the fine, performing and media arts. It is a graduate program for traditional and performing artists who want to incorporate media into their artistic practice and for media artists who want to expand into areas such as performance, installation, interactive, and relational art forms.\n\nIn the 916 S. Wabash building are housed the departmental offices, faculty offices, conference room, lecture hall, two smart classrooms, large computer lab, three installation labs and the media equipment center. Additionally, the Center for Book and Paper Arts is part of the Interdisciplinary Arts department. The Center for Book and Paper Arts occupies the entire second floor of the historic Ludington Building at 1104 South Wabash and includes a papermaking studio, a letterpress facility, a bookbindery, a gallery, a smart classroom, a multi-purpose space for performance and lectures, a computer laboratory, a critique room, studio space for artists, a resource room, and offices for the staff. Also at 1104 South Wabash are studio spaces for the MFA students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40661121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40661121", "title": "International Association of Law Schools", "text": "International Association of Law Schools\n\nThe International Association of Law Schools (IALS) is an independent association of law schools that was established after a series of meetings of legal educators from around the world beginning in 2000. Incorporated under the laws of the District of Columbia in the United States in 2005, its secretariat is based at Cornell Law School. Its membership includes over 170 schools from more than 45 countries.\n\nIts President is Francis S.L. Wang, Dean Emeritus of the Kenneth Wang School of Law at Soochow University.\n\nIn 2013, the IALS convened the first ever Global Law Deans’ Forum at the National University of Singapore Faculty of Law. It was attended by 80 deans from 31 countries, as well as judges including Ghanaian Chief Justice Georgina Wood and Diarmuid O'Scannlain from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The meeting adopted the Singapore Declaration on Global Standards and Outcomes of a Legal Education, which was intended to offer a “common language” for global legal education.\n"}
{"id": "1615621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1615621", "title": "Interpretive communities", "text": "Interpretive communities\n\nInterpretive communities are a theoretical concept stemming from reader-response criticism and publicized by Stanley Fish although it was in use in other fields and may be found as early as 1964 in the \"Historical News and Notices\" of the \"Tennessee Historical Quarterly\" (p. 98) and also, and again before Fish's usage, in Richard Crouter's 1974 \"H. Reinhold Neibuhr and Stoicism\" in \"The Journal of Religious Ethics\".\nThey appeared in an article by Fish in 1976 entitled \"Interpreting the \"Variorum\"\". Fish's theory states that a text does not have meaning outside of a set of cultural assumptions regarding both what the characters mean and how they should be interpreted. This cultural context often includes authorial intent, though it is not limited to it. Fish claims that we as individuals interpret texts because each of us is part of an interpretive community that gives us a particular way of reading a text. Furthermore, he claims, we cannot know whether someone is a part of our interpretive community or not, because any act of communication that we could engage in to tell whether we are part of the same interpretive community would have to be interpreted. That is, because we cannot escape our interpretive community, we can never really know its limits.\n\nThe idea has been very influential in reader-response criticism, though it has also been very controversial. It is often interpreted as a relativistic standpoint that \"words have no meaning,\" though this is not what Fish means. Quite the contrary, Fish is a staunch advocate of his own readings of various texts. Rather, he means to point out that readings of a text are culturally constructed.\n"}
{"id": "23603809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23603809", "title": "Intégral: The Journal of Applied Musical Thought", "text": "Intégral: The Journal of Applied Musical Thought\n\nIntégral: The Journal of Applied Musical Thought () is a peer-reviewed, academic journal specializing in music theory and analysis. It began publication in 1987, under the auspices of graduate students in music theory at the Eastman School of Music. According to its website, \"the journal pursues an implicit mandate to explore and exploit the increasing pluralism of the music-theoretic field.\"\n\nThe journal's first editor was John Adrian. It is currently co-edited by Andrew Aziz and Samantha Inman.\n\n"}
{"id": "53692001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53692001", "title": "Jean-Claude Gardin", "text": "Jean-Claude Gardin\n\nJean-Claude Gardin (3 April 1925 - 8 April 2013) was a French archaeologist who is recognized as being one of the founders of archaeological computing.\n\nGardin worked with the organizations UNESCO and the European Atomic Energy Community in the 1950s to the 1960s, leading the creation of an indexing language, the SYNTOL (Syntagmatic Organization Language). He founded the \"Centre Mécanographique de Documentation Archéologique\" at French National Center for Scientific Research in 1957. He participated in the excavation of ancient Bactrian sites in Afghanistan. He also contributed to the contemporary debates on the theory of archaeology and of the social sciences.\n"}
{"id": "19388884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19388884", "title": "Jean-Michel Thierry", "text": "Jean-Michel Thierry\n\nJean-Michel Thierry de Crussol (1916–2011) was a French physician and art historian. His specialities are in Byzantine and Armenian art.\n\nHe was born on August 13, 1916 in Bagnères de Luchon, France. He studied and got his education in Paris. He co-wrote the book \"Armenian Art\" in 1989 and also wrote many articles concerning Armenian art, especially Armenian architecture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1683290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1683290", "title": "Ken George", "text": "Ken George\n\nKenneth \"Ken\" J. George, is a British oceanographer, poet, and linguist noted as being the originator of Kernewek Kemmyn, an orthography for the Cornish language which he claims is more faithful to Middle Cornish phonology than its precursor (Unified Cornish).\n\nGeorge has published over eighty items relating to Celtic linguistics, including several dictionaries of Cornish. His edition of the recently discovered Middle Cornish play \"Bewnans Ke\" was published by the Cornish Language Board in May 2006. George received a Commendation for this work in the 2007 Holyer an Gof awards. He has translated numerous hymns and songs into Cornish, and also the lyrics of \"Die Zauberflöte\". He has composed a substantial amount of poetry in Cornish, including the full-length play \"Flogholeth Krist,\" in the style of the Ordinalia.\n\nGeorge lives in Cornwall, and speaks Breton and French as well as English and Cornish. George was formerly Principal Lecturer in Ocean Science in the Institute of Marine Studies at the University of Plymouth.\n\nGeorge was made a Bard of Gorseth Kernow in 1979, taking the Bardic name \"Profus an Mortyd\" ('Tide Predictor'). This reflected one of his research interests in oceanography, the other being numerical modelling. He has over fifty publications in the oceanographic field, including the textbook \"Tides for Marine Studies\", which has sold over 1000 copies.\n\nGeorge is a Gorseth Kernow representative committee member of the Kesva an Taves Kernewek (Cornish Language Board) which is a body promoting the Cornish language.\n\nGeorge took early retirement in 2006, and has recently been learning Japanese.\n"}
{"id": "5158642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5158642", "title": "Laurence Waddell", "text": "Laurence Waddell\n\nLieutenant Colonel Laurence Austine Waddell, CB, CIE, F.L.S., L.L.D, M.Ch., I.M.S. RAI, F.R.A.S (1854–1938) was a British explorer, Professor of Tibetan, Professor of Chemistry and Pathology, Indian Army surgeon, collector in Tibet, and amateur archaeologist. Waddell also studied Sumerian and Sanskrit; he made various translations of seals and other inscriptions. His reputation as a Assyriologist gained little to no academic recognition and his books on the history of civilization have caused controversy. Some of his book publications however were popular with the public, and he is regarded by some today to have been a real-life precursor of the fictional character Indiana Jones.\n\nLaurence Waddell was born on 29 May 1854, and was the son of Rev. Thomas Clement Waddell, a Doctor of Divinity at Glasgow University and Jean Chapman, daughter of John Chapman of Banton, Stirlingshire. Laurence Waddell obtained a bachelor's degree in Medicine followed by a master's degree in both Surgery and Chemistry at Glasgow University in 1878. His first job was as a resident surgeon near the university and was also the President of Glasgow University's Medical Society. In 1879 he visited Ceylon and Burma and was 'irresistibly attracted' towards Buddhism which in later years led him to study the tenets, history and art of Buddhism\n. In 1880 Waddell joined the British Indian Army and served as a medical officer with the Indian Medical Service (I.M.S), subsequently he was stationed in India and the Far East (Tibet, China and Burma). The following year he became a Professor of Chemistry and Pathology at the Medical College of Kolkata, India. While working in India, Waddell also studied Sanskrit and edited the \"Indian Medical Gazette\". He became Assistant Sanitary Commissioner under the government of India.\n\nAfter Waddell worked as a Professor of Chemistry and Pathology for 6 years, he became involved in military expeditions across Burma and Tibet. Between 1885-1887 Waddell took part in the British expedition that annexed Upper Burma, which defeated Thibaw Min the last king of the Konbaung dynasty. After his return from Burma Waddell was stationed in Darjeeling district, India, and was appointed Principal Medical Officer in 1888. In the 1890s Waddell, while in Patna, established that Agam Kuan was part of Ashoka's Hell. His first publications were essays and articles on medicine and zoology, most notably \"The Birds of Sikkim\" (1893). In 1895 he obtained a doctorate in law.\nWaddell traveled extensively in India throughout the 1890s (including Sikkim and areas on the borders of Nepal and Tibet) and wrote about the Tibetan Buddhist religious practices he observed there. Stationed with the British army in Darjeeling, Waddell learned the Tibetan language and even visited Tibet several times secretly, in disguise. He was the cultural consultant on the 1903-1904 British invasion of Tibet led by Colonel Sir Francis Edward Younghusband, and was considered alongside Sir Charles Bell as one of the foremost authorities on Tibet and Tibetan Buddhism. Waddell studied archaeology and ethnology in-between his military assignments across India and Tibet, and his exploits in the Himalayas were published in his highly successful book \"Among the Himalayas\" (1899). Various archaeological excavations were also carried out and supervised by Waddell across India, including Pataliputra, of which he did not receive recognition of discovery until long after his death, in 1982, by the government of Bengal. His discoveries at Pataliputra were published in an official report in 1892.\n\nDuring the 1890s Waddell specialised in Buddhist antiquities and became a collector, between 1895-97 he published \"Reports on collections of Indo-Scythian Buddhist Sculptures from the Swat Valley\", in 1893 he also read a paper to the International Congress of Orientalists: \"On some newly found Indo-Grecian Buddhistic Sculptures from the Swat Valley\". In 1895 Waddell published his book \"Buddhism of Tibet or Lamaism\", which was one of the first works published in the west on Buddhism. As a collector, Waddell had come across many Tibetan manuscripts and maps, but was disappointed to not find a single reference to a lost ancient civilization, which he had hoped to discover.\n\nWaddell continued his military service with the Indian Medical Service. He was in China during the Boxer Rebellion (1898-1901), including the Relief of Peking in August 1900, for which he was mentioned in despatches, received the China War Medal (1900) with clasp, and was in 1901 appointed a Companion of the Order of the Indian Empire (CIE). By late 1901 he had moved to North-West Frontier Province and was present during the Mahsud-Waziri Blockade, 1901–02. He was in Malakand in 1902 and took part in the Tibet Mission to Lhasa 1903–04, for which he was again mentioned in despatches, received a medal with clasp and was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB). Waddell then returned to England where he briefly became Professor of Tibetan at the University College of London (1906–1908).\n\nIn 1908, Waddell began to learn Sumerian. Thus in his later career he turned to studying the ancient near east, especially Sumeria and dedicated his time to deciphering or translating ancient cuneiform tablets or seals, most notably including the Scheil dynastic tablet. In 1911, Waddell published two entries in the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". By 1917, Waddell was fully retired and first started exclusively writing on Aryans, beginning in an article published in the \"Asiatic Review\" entitled \"Aryan Origin of the World's Civilization\". From the 1920s Waddell published several works which attempted to prove an Aryan (i.e., Indo-European) origin of the alphabet and the appearance of Indo-European myth figures in ancient Near Eastern mythologies (e.g., Hittite, Sumerian, Babylonian). The foundation of his argument is what he saw as a persistence of cult practices, religious symbols, mythological stories and figures, and god and hero names throughout Western and Near Eastern civilizations, but also based his arguments on his deciphered Sumerian and Indus-Valley seals, and other archaeological findings.\n\nWaddell died in 1938. That same year, he had completed writing \"Trojan Origin of World Civilization\". The book was never published.\n\nWaddell had actively travelled around British controlled India in search for Kapilavastu, the Buddha's supposed birthplace. Cunningham had previously identified Kapilavastu as the village of Bhuila in India which Waddell and other orientalists concluded to be incorrect. They were searching for the birthplace by taking into account the topographical and geographical hints left by the ancient chinese travellers, Fa Hien and Hiuen Tsiang. Waddell was first to point out the importance of the discovery of Asoka's pillar in Nigliva in 1893 and estimate Buddha's birthplace as Lumbini. He subsequently corresponded with Government of India and arranged for the exploration of the area.It was also Waddell who was appointed to conduct the exploration to recover the inscriptions, etc.; but at the last moment, when due to adverse circumstances prevented him from proceeding, and Mr. Führer was sent to carry out the exploration arranged by him, he found the Lumbini grove, etc., with their inscriptions at the very spots pointed out by him.\n\nWaddell's voluminious writings after his retirement were based on an attempt to prove the Sumerians (who he identified as Aryans) as the progenitors of other ancient civilizations, such as the Indus Valley Civilization and ancient Egyptians to \"the classic Greeks and Romans and Ancient Britons, to whom they [the Sumerians] passed on from hand to hand down the ages the torch of civilization\". He is perhaps most remembered for his controversial translations; the Scheil dynastic tablet, the Bowl of Utu and Newton Stone, as well as his \"British Edda\".\n\nWaddell in \"Phoenician Origin of Britons, Scots, and Anglo-Saxons\" (1924) argued for a Syro-Hittite and Phoenician colonization of the British Isles, turning to British folklore that mentions Trojans, such as the \"Brutus Stone\" in Totnes and Geoffrey of Monmouth; place-names that supposedly preserve the Hittite language, and inscriptions, as evidence.\n\nAccording to Waddell the \"unknown\" script on the Newton Stone is Hitto-Phoenician. His translation is as follows:\n\nBrutus of Troy, Waddell also regarded to be a real historical figure. In a chapter entitled \"COMING OF THE \"BRITONS\" OR ARYAN BRITO-PHOENICIANS UNDER KING BRUTUS-THE-TROJAN TO ALBION ABOUT 1103, B.C\", Waddell writes:\n\nWaddell's contemporaries reviewed the book very negatively. One reviewer considered the content to be \"admirable fooling\", but that he had \"an uneasy feeling that the author really believes it\". It has also been pointed out that Waddell took the \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" to be literal history which is why he was almost asking to be ridiculed by historians:\n\nThe first Indus Valley or Harappan seal was published by Alexander Cunningham in 1872. It was half a century later, in 1912, when more Indus Valley seals were discovered by J. Fleet, prompting an excavation campaign under Sir John Hubert Marshall in 1921–22, resulting in the discovery of the ancient civilization at Harappa (later including Mohenjo-daro). As seals were discovered from the Indus Valley, Waddell in 1925 first attempted to decipher them and claimed they were of Sumerian origin in his \"Indo-Sumerian Seals Deciphered\".\n\nIn the 1920s, Waddell's theory that the Indus-Valley seals were Sumerian had some academic support, despite criticisms; Ralph Turner considered Waddell's work to be \"fantasy\". Two notable supporters of Waddell included John Marshall, the Director-General of the Archaeological Survey of India until 1928, and Stephen Herbert Langdon. Marshall had led the main excavation campaign at Harappa and published his support for Waddell's Sumerian decipherment in 1931. Preston however in a section of her biography of Waddell entitled \"Opposition to Indo-Sumerian Seals Deciphered\" points out that support for Waddell's theory had disappeared by the early 1940s through the work of Mortimer Wheeler:\n\nThe non-Semitic source of the Sumerian language was established in the late 19th century by Julius Oppert and Henry Rawlinson from which many different theories were proposed as to its origin. In his works \"Aryan Origin of the Alphabet\" and \"Sumer-Aryan Dictionary\" (1927) Waddell attempted to show the Sumerian language was of Aryan (Indo-European) root.\n\nWaddell's Sumerian-Aryan equation did not receive any support at the time, despite having sent personal copies of his two books to Archibald Sayce. Professor Langdon, who had earlier offered Waddell his support for a Sumerian or Proto-Elamite decipherment of the Indus-Valley seals, dismissed Waddell's publications on the Sumerian language itself:\n\nWaddell in \"The Makers of Civilization\" (1929) and \"Egyptian Civilization Its Sumerian Origin and Real Chronology\" (1930) revised conventional dates for most ancient civilizations and king lists. For example, he believed the Early Dynastic Period of Egypt began c. 2700 BC, not c. 3100 BC, arguing that Menes, was Manis-Tusu, the son of Sargon, who in turn was King Minos of Crete. For Waddell, the earliest ancient rulers or mythological kings of Sumer, Egypt, Crete and the Indus Valley civilizations were \nall identical Aryan personages.\n\nTo support his revised chronology, Waddell acquired and translated several artefacts including the Scheil dynastic tablet and the Bowl of Utu. Waddell was praised for his acquisition of the latter. However Waddell's translations were always highly unorthodox and not taken serious. \"The Makers of Civilization\" was panned in a review by Harry L. Shapiro:\n\nWaddell during his own life, was deemed to be anachronistic by most scholars because of his supremacist views regarding the Aryan race:\n\nWaddell from 1917 (having first published the article \"Aryan Origin of the World's Civilization\") until his death was a proponent of hyperdiffusionism (\"Pan-Sumerism\") arguing that many cultures and ancient civilizations, such as the Indus Valley Civilization, Minoan Crete, Phoenicia, and Dynastic Egypt, were the product of Aryan Sumerian colonists.\n\nGrafton Elliot Smith who pioneered hyperdiffusionism (but of the Egyptians) was an influential correspondent to Waddell.\n\nR. Sawyer (1985) points out that Waddell \"was of the eccentric opinion that Western, Indian and ancient Egyptian culture derived from a common Sumerian ancestry\" and that his ideas were far-fetched to untenable. Gabriel Moshenska of the UCL Institute of Archaeology has noted:\n\nWaddell collected bird specimens and it was on the basis of one of them that Henry Dresser named the species \"Babax waddelli\" (the giant babax) in 1905. His collections were donated in 1894 to the Hunterian Museum at the University of Glasgow. Some specimens are in the Manchester Museum and at the Natural History Museum at London. The University of Glasgow holds Waddell's papers and manuscript collection.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2345070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2345070", "title": "Liminality", "text": "Liminality\n\nIn anthropology, liminality (from the Latin word \"līmen\", meaning \"a threshold\") is the quality of ambiguity or disorientation that occurs in the middle stage of rites, when participants no longer hold their preritual status but have not yet begun the transition to the status they will hold when the rite is complete. During a rite's liminal stage, participants \"stand at the threshold\" between their previous way of structuring their identity, time, or community, and a new way, which completing the rite establishes.\n\nThe concept of liminality was first developed in the early twentieth century by folklorist Arnold van Gennep and later taken up by Victor Turner. More recently, usage of the term has broadened to describe political and cultural change as well as rites. During liminal periods of all kinds, social hierarchies may be reversed or temporarily dissolved, continuity of tradition may become uncertain, and future outcomes once taken for granted may be thrown into doubt. The dissolution of order during liminality creates a fluid, malleable situation that enables new institutions and customs to become established. The term has also passed into popular usage, where it is applied much more broadly, undermining its significance to some extent.\n\nVan Gennep, who coined the term liminality, published in 1909 his 'Rites de Passage', a work that explores and develops the concept of liminality in the context of rites in small-scale societies. Van Gennep began his book by identifying the various categories of rites. He distinguished between those that result in a change of status for an individual or social group, and those that signify transitions in the passage of time. In doing so, he placed a particular emphasis on rites of passage, and claimed that \"such rituals marking, helping, or celebrating individual or collective passages through the cycle of life or of nature exist in every culture, and share a specific three-fold sequential structure\".\n\nThis three-fold structure, as established by van Gennep, is made up of the following components:\n\n\nTurner confirmed his nomenclature for 'the three phases of passage from one culturally defined state or status to another...\"preliminal\", \"liminal\", and \"postliminal\"'.\n\nBeyond this structural template, Van Gennep also suggested four categories of rites that emerge as universal across cultures and societies. He suggested that there are four types of social rites of passage that are replicable and recognizable among many ethnographic populations. They include:\n\n\nVan Gennep considered rites of initiation to be the most typical rite. To gain a better understanding of \"tripartite structure\" of liminal situations, one can look at a specific rite of initiation: the initiation of youngsters into adulthood, which Turner considered the most typical rite. In such rites of passage, the experience is highly structured. The first phase (the rite of separation) requires the child to go through a separation from his family; this involves his/her \"death\" as a child, as childhood is effectively left behind. In the second stage, initiands (between childhood and adulthood) must pass a \"test\" to prove they are ready for adulthood. If they succeed, the third stage (incorporation) involves a celebration of the \"new birth\" of the adult and a welcoming of that being back into society.\n\nBy constructing this three-part sequence, van Gennep identified a pattern he believed was inherent in all ritual passages. By suggesting that such a sequence is universal (meaning that all societies use rites to demarcate transitions), van Gennep made an important claim (one that not many anthropologists make, as they generally tend to demonstrate cultural diversity while shying away from universality).\n\nAn anthropological rite, especially a rite of passage, involves some change to the participants, especially their social status.; and in 'the first phase (of separation) comprises symbolic behaviour signifying the detachment of the individual...from an earlier fixed point in the social structure. Their status thus becomes liminal. In such a liminal situation, \"the initiands live outside their normal environment and are brought to question their self and the existing social order through a series of rituals that often involve acts of pain: the initiands come to feel nameless, spatio-temporally dislocated and socially unstructured\". In this sense, liminal periods are \"destructive\" as well as \"constructive\", meaning that \"the formative experiences during liminality will prepare the initiand (and his/her cohort) to occupy a new social role or status, made public during the reintegration rituals\".\n\nTurner, who is considered to have \"re-discovered the importance of liminality\", first came across van Gennep's work in 1963. In 1967 he published his book \"The Forest of Symbols\", which included an essay entitled \"Betwixt and Between: The Liminal Period in Rites of Passage\". Within the works of Turner, liminality began to wander away from its narrow application to ritual passages in small-scale societies. In the various works he completed while conducting his fieldwork amongst the Ndembu in Zambia, he made numerous connections between tribal and non-tribal societies, \"sensing that what he argued for the Ndembu had relevance far beyond the specific ethnographic context\". He became aware that liminality \"...served not only to identify the importance of in-between periods, but also to understand the human reactions to liminal experiences: the way liminality shaped personality, the sudden foregrounding of agency, and the sometimes dramatic tying together of thought and experience\".\n\n'The attributes of liminality or of liminal \"personae\" (\"threshold people\") are necessarily ambiguous'. One's sense of identity dissolves to some extent, bringing about disorientation, but also the possibility of new perspectives. Turner posits that, if liminality is regarded as a time and place of withdrawal from normal modes of social action, it potentially can be seen as a period of scrutiny for central values and axioms of the culture where it occurs.—one where normal limits to thought, self-understanding, and behavior are undone. In such situations, \"the very structure of society [is] temporarily suspended\"\n\n'According to Turner, all liminality must eventually dissolve, for it is a state of great intensity that cannot exist very long without some sort of structure to stabilize it...either the individual returns to the surrounding social structure...or else liminal communities develop their own internal social structure, a condition Turner calls \"normative communitas\"'.\n\nThe work of Victor Turner has vital significance in turning attention to this concept, introduced by Arnold van Gennep, a main intellectual opponent of Durkheim, who subsequently was diverted out of anthropological and sociological thinking. However, Turner's approach to liminality has two major shortcomings. First, partly due to criticism, Turner was keen to limit the meaning of the concept to the concrete settings of small-scale tribal societies, preferring the neologism coined by him, 'liminoid', to analyse certain features of the modern world, like theatre (Turner 1982). However, Agnes Horvath (2013) argues that the term can be applied to concrete historical events, and should be applied, as offering a vital means for historical and sociological understanding. Second, again staying too close to his own experiences, Turner attributed a rather univocally positive connotation to liminal situations, as ways of renewal. However, liminal situations can be, and in actual fact in modern era, rather quite different: periods of uncertainty, anguish, even existential fear: a facing of the abyss in void.\n\nLiminality has both spatial and temporal dimensions, and can be applied to a variety of subjects: individuals, larger groups (cohorts or villages), whole societies, and possibly even entire civilizations. The following chart summarizes the different dimensions and subjects of liminal experiences, and also provides the main characteristics and key examples of each category.\n\nAnother significant variable is \"scale,\" or the \"degree\" to which an individual or group experiences liminality. In other words, \"there are degrees of liminality, and…the degree depends on the extent to which the liminal experience can be weighed against persisting structures.\" When the spatial and temporal are both affected, the intensity of the liminal experience increases and so-called \"pure liminality\" is approached.\n\nThe concept of a liminal situation can also be applied to entire societies that are going through a crisis or a \"collapse of order\". Philosopher Karl Jaspers made a significant contribution to this idea through his concept of the \"axial age\", which was \"an in-between period between two structured world-views and between two rounds of empire building; it was an age of creativity where 'man asked radical questions', and where the 'unquestioned grasp on life is loosened'\". It was essentially a time of uncertainty which, most importantly, involved entire civilizations. Seeing as liminal periods are both destructive and constructive, the ideas and practices that emerge from these liminal historical periods are of extreme importance, as they will \"tend to take on the quality of structure\". Events such as political or social revolutions (along with other periods of crisis) can thus be considered liminal, as they result in the complete collapse of order and can lead to significant social change.\n\nLiminality in large-scale societies differs significantly from liminality found in ritual passages in small-scale societies. One primary characteristic of liminality (as defined van Gennep and Turner) is that there is a way in as well as a way out. In ritual passages, \"members of the society are themselves aware of the liminal state: they know that they will leave it sooner or later, and have 'ceremony masters' to guide them through the rituals\". However, in those liminal periods that affect society as a whole, the future (what comes after the liminal period) is completely unknown, and there is no \"ceremony master\" who has gone through the process before and that can lead people out of it. In such cases, liminal situations can become dangerous. They allow for the emergence of \"self-proclaimed ceremony masters\", that assume leadership positions and attempt to \"[perpetuate] liminality and by emptying the liminal moment of real creativity, [turn] it into a scene of mimetic rivalry\".\n\nJungians have often seen the individuation process of self-realization as taking place within a liminal space. 'Individuation begins with a withdrawal from normal modes of socialisation, epitomized by the breakdown of the persona...liminality'. Thus \"what Turner's concept of social liminality does for status in society, Jung...does for the movement of the person through the life process of individuation\". Individuation can be seen as a \"movement through liminal space and time, from disorientation to integration...What takes place in the dark phase of liminality is a process of breaking down...in the interest of \"making whole\" one's meaning, purpose and sense of relatedness once more'\" As an archetypal figure, \"the trickster is a symbol of the liminal state itself, and of its permanent accessibility as a source of recreative power\".\n\nBut other depth psychologies speak of a similar process. Carl Rogers describes \"the 'out-of-this-world' quality that many therapists have remarked upon, a sort of trance-like feeling in the relationship that client and therapist emerge from at the end of the hour, as if from a deep well or tunnel. The French talk of how the analytic setting 'opens/forges the \"intermediate space,\" \"excluded middle,\" or \"between\" that figures so importantly in Irigaray's writing\". Marion Milner claimed that \"a temporal spatial frame also marks off the special kind of reality of a psycho-analytic session...the different kind of reality that is within it\".\n\nJungians however have perhaps been most explicit about the 'need to accord space, time and place for liminal feeling'—as well about the associated dangers, 'two mistakes: we provide no ritual space at all in our lives...or we stay in it too long'. Indeed, Jung's psychology has itself been described as 'a form of \"permanent liminality\" in which there is no need to return to social structure'.\n\nIn the context of rites, liminality is being artificially produced, as opposed to those situations (such as natural disasters) in which it can occur spontaneously. In the simple example of a college graduation ceremony, the liminal phase can actually be extended to include the period of time between when the last assignment was finished (and graduation was assured) all the way through reception of the diploma. That no man's land represents the limbo associated with liminality. The stress of accomplishing tasks for college has been lifted, yet the individual has not moved on to a new stage in life (psychologically or physically). The result is a unique perspective on what has come before, and what may come next.\n\nIt can include the period between when a couple get engaged and their marriage or between death and burial, for which cultures may have set ritual observances. Even sexually liberal cultures may strongly disapprove of an engaged spouse having sex with another person during this time. When a marriage proposal is initiated there is a liminal stage between the question and the answer during which the social arrangements of both parties involved are subject to transformation and inversion; a sort of \"life stage limbo\" so to speak in that the affirmation or denial can result in multiple and diverse outcomes.\n\nGetz provides commentary on the liminal/liminoid zone when discussing the planned event experience. He refers to a liminal zone at an event as the creation of \"time out of time: a special place\". He notes that this liminal zone is both spatial and temporal and integral when planning a successful event (e.g. ceremony, concert, conference etc.).\n\nThe temporal dimension of liminality can relate to moments (sudden events), periods (weeks, months, or possibly years), and epochs (decades, generations, maybe even centuries).\nTwilight serves as a liminal time, between day and night—where one is 'in the twilight zone, in a liminal nether region of the night'. The title of the television fiction series \"The Twilight Zone\" makes reference to this, describing it as \"the middle ground between light and shadow, between science and superstition\" in one variant of the original series' opening. The name is from an actual zone observable from space in the place where daylight or shadow advances or retreats about the Earth. Noon and, more often, midnight can be considered liminal, the first transitioning between morning and afternoon, the latter between days.\n\nWithin the years, liminal times include equinoxes when day and night have equal length, and solstices, when the increase of day or night shifts over to its decrease. Where the quarter days are held to mark the change in seasons, they also are liminal times. New Year's Day, whatever its connection or lack of one to the astrological sky, is a liminal time. Customs such as fortune-telling take advantage of this liminal state. In a number of cultures, actions and events on the first day of the year can determine the year, leading to such beliefs as first-foot. Many cultures regard it as a time especially prone to hauntings by ghosts—liminal beings, neither alive nor dead.\n\nLiminal existence can be located in a separated \"sacred space\", which occupies a \"sacred time\". Examples in the Bible include the dream of Jacob (Genesis 28:12–19) where he encounters God between heaven and earth and the instance when Isaiah meets the Lord in the temple of holiness (Isaiah 6:1–6). In such a liminal space, the individual experiences the revelation of \"sacred knowledge\" where God imparts his knowledge on the person.\n\nWorship can be understood in this context as the church community (or \"communitas\" or \"koinonia\") enter into liminal space corporately. Religious symbols and music may aid in this process described as a pilgrimage by way of prayer, song, or liturgical acts. The congregation is transformed in the liminal space and as they exit, are sent out back into the world to serve.\n\nVarious minority groups can be considered liminal. In reality illegal immigrants (present but not \"official\"), and stateless people, for example, are regarded as liminal because they are \"betwixt and between home and host, part of society, but sometimes never fully integrated\". Intersex or transgender people, bisexual people in most contemporary societies, people of mixed ethnicity, and those accused but not yet judged guilty or not guilty, are liminal. Teenagers, being neither children nor adults, are liminal people: indeed, \"for young people, liminality of this kind has become a permanent phenomenon...Postmodern liminality\". The \"trickster as the mythic projection of the magician—standing in the \"limen\" between the sacred realm and the profane\" and related archetypes embody many such contradictions as do many popular culture celebrities. The category could also hypothetically and in fiction include cyborgs, hybrids between two species, shapeshifters. One could also consider seals, crabs, shorebirds, frogs, bats, dolphins/whales and other \"border animals\" to be liminal: \"the wild duck and swan are cases in point...intermediate creatures that combine underwater activity and the bird flight with an intermediate, terrestrial life\". It should come as no surprise that these liminal creatures figure prominently in mythology as shapeshifters and spirit guides.\n\nThe spatial dimension of liminality can include specific places, larger zones or areas, or entire countries and larger regions. Liminal places can range from borders and frontiers to no man's lands and disputed territories, to crossroads to perhaps airports or hotels, which people pass through but do not live in: arguably indeed all 'romantic travel enacts the three stages that characterize liminality: separation, marginalization, and reaggregation'. In mythology and religion or esoteric lore liminality can include such realms as Purgatory or Da'at, which, as well as signifying liminality, some theologians deny actually existing, making them, in some cases, doubly liminal. \"Between-ness\" defines these spaces. For a hotel worker (an insider) or a person passing by with disinterest (a total outsider), the hotel would have a very different connotation. To a traveller staying there, the hotel would function as a liminal zone, just as 'doors and windows and hallways and gates frame...the definitively liminal condition'.\n\nMore conventionally, springs, caves, shores, rivers, volcanic calderas—'a huge crater of an extinct volcano...[as] another symbol of transcendence'—fords, passes, crossroads, bridges, and marshes are all liminal: '\"edges\", borders or faultlines between the legitimate and the illegitimate'. Oedipus (an adoptee and therefore liminal) met his father at the crossroads and killed him; the bluesman Robert Johnson met the devil at the crossroads, where he is said to have sold his soul. Major transformations occur at crossroads and other liminal places, at least partly because liminality—being so unstable—can pave the way for access to esoteric knowledge or understanding of both sides. Liminality is sacred, alluring, and dangerous.\n\nIn contemporary culture viewing the nightclub experience (dancing in a nightclub) through the liminoid framework highlights the 'presence or absence of opportunities for social subversion, escape from social structures, and exercising choice'. This allows 'insights into what may be effectively improved in hedonic spaces. Enhancing the consumer experience of these liminoid aspects may heighten experiential feelings of escapism and play, thus encouraging the consumer to more freely consume'.\n\nThere are a number of stories in folklore of those who could only be killed in a liminal space: Lleu could not be killed during the day or night, nor indoors or outdoors, nor riding or walking, nor clothed or naked (and is attacked at dusk, while wrapped in a net with one foot on a cauldron and one on a goat). Likewise, in Hindu text Bhagavat Purana, Vishnu appears in a half-man half-lion form named Narasimha to destroy the demon Hiranyakashipu who has obtained the power never to be killed in day nor night, in the ground nor in the air, with weapon nor by bare hands, in a building nor outside it, by man nor beast. Narasimha kills Hiranyakashipu at dusk, across his lap, with his sharp claws, on the threshold of the palace, and as Narasimha is a god himself, the demon is killed by neither man nor beast. In the Mahabharata, Indra promises not to slay Namuci and Vritra with anything wet or dry, nor in the day or in the night, but instead kills them at dusk with foam. Yet another example comes from Hayao Miyazaki's \"Princess Mononoke\" in which the Forest Spirit can only be killed while switching between its two forms.\n\nIn ethnographic research, 'the researcher is...in a liminal state, separated from his own culture yet not incorporated into the host culture'—when he or she is both participating in the culture \"and\" observing the culture. The researcher must consider the self in relation to others and his or her positioning in the culture being studied.\n\nIn many cases, greater participation in the group being studied can lead to increased access of cultural information and greater in-group understanding of experiences within the culture. However increased participation also blurs the role of the researcher in data collection and analysis. Often a researcher that engages in fieldwork as a \"participant\" or \"participant-observer\" occupies a liminal state where he/she is a part of the culture, but also separated from the culture as a researcher. This liminal state of being betwixt and between is emotional and uncomfortable as the researcher uses self-reflexivity to interpret field observations and interviews.\n\nSome scholars argue that ethnographers are present in their research, occupying a liminal state, regardless of their participant status. Justification for this position is that the researcher as a \"human instrument\" engages with his/her observations in the process of recording and analyzing the data. A researcher, often unconsciously, selects what to observe, how to record observations and how to interpret observations based on personal reference points and experiences. For example, even in selecting what observations are interesting to record, the researcher must interpret and value the data available. To explore the liminal state of the researcher in relation to the culture, self-reflexivity and awareness are important tools to reveal researcher bias and interpretation.\n\n\"Rant: An Oral Biography of Buster Casey\" is a US novel by Chuck Palahniuk from 2007 that makes use of liminality in explaining time travel. \"Possession\" is a romance by A. S. Byatt, which describes how postmodern 'Literary theory. Feminism...write about liminality. Thresholds. Bastions. Fortresses'. \"The Twilight Saga\" is a book series by Stephanie Meyer that was turned into film series. Each book title speaks of a liminal period (\"Twilight, New Moon, Eclipse\", and \"Breaking Dawn\"). In the children's story \"The Phantom Tollbooth\" (1961), Milo enters \"The Lands Beyond\", a liminal place (which explains its topsy-turvy nature), through a magical tollbooth. When he finishes his quest, he returns, but changed, seeing the world differently. The giver of the tollbooth is never seen and name never known, and hence, also remains liminal. In \"Offshore\", a British novel by Penelope Fitzgerald, the characters live between sea and land on docked boats, becoming liminal people; as such, liminality is a major theme in the novel. Bellow's varied uses of liminality...include his \"Dangling Man\", suspended between civilian life and the armed forces' at 'the onset of the dangling days'.\n\nCharlotte Brönte's widely-read \"Jane Eyre\" follows the protagonist through different stages of life as she crosses the threshold from student to teacher to woman. Her existence throughout the novel is liminal and can first be seen when she hides herself behind a large red curtain to read, closing herself off physically and existing in a paracosmic realm. At Gateshead, Jane is noted to be set apart and on the outside of the family, putting her in a liminal space in which she neither belongs nor is completely cast away. Jane's existence emerges as paradoxical as she transcends commonly accepted beliefs about what it means to be a woman, orphan, child, victim, criminal, and pilgrim and creates her own narrative as she is torn from her past and denied a sure future. Faced with a series of crises, Jane's circumstances question social constructs and allow Jane to act to progress or retract; as a result, a narrative dynamic of structure and liminality (as coined by Turner). \n\nKaren Brooks states that Australian grunge lit books, such as Clare Mendes' \"Drift Street\", Edward Berridge's \"The Lives of the Saints\", and Andrew McGahan's \"Praise\" \"...explor[e] the psychosocial and psychosexual limitations of young sub/urban characters in relation to the imaginary and socially constructed boundaries defining...self and other\" and \"opening up\" new \"liminal [boundary] spaces\" where the concept of an abject human body can be explored. Brooks states that Berridge's short stories provide \"...a variety of violent, disaffected and often abject young people\", characters who \"...blur and often overturn\" the boundaries between suburban and urban space. Brooks states that the marginalized characters in \"The Lives of the Saints\", \"Drift Street\" and \"Praise\") are able to stay in \"shit creek\" (an undesirable setting or situation) and \"diver[t]... flows\" of these \"creeks\", thus claiming their rough settings' \"liminality\" (being in a border situation or transitional setting) and their own \"abjection\" (having \"abject bodies\" with health problems, disease, etc.) as \"sites of symbolic empowerment and agency\".\nBrooks states that the story \"Caravan Park\" in Berridge's short story collection is an example of a story with a \"liminal\" setting, as it is set in a mobile home park; since mobile homes can be relocated, she states that setting a story in a mobile home \"...has the potential to disrupt a range of geo-physical and psycho-social boundaries\". Brooks states that in Berridge's story \"Bored Teenagers\", the adolescents using a community drop-in centre decide to destroy its equipment and defile the space by urinating in it, thus \"altering the dynamics of the place and the way\" their bodies are perceived, with their destructive activities being deemed by Brooks to indicate the community centre's \"loss of authority\" over the teens.\n\n\"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead\", a play by Tom Stoppard, takes place both in a kind of no-man's-land and the actual setting of \"Hamlet\". \"Shakespeare's play \"Hamlet\" is in several ways an essay in sustained liminality ... only via a condition of complete liminality can Hamlet finally see the way forward\". In the play \"Waiting for Godot\" for the entire length of the play, two men walk around restlessly on an empty stage. They alternate between hope and hopelessness. At times one forgets what they are even waiting for, and the other reminds him: \"We are waiting for Godot\". The identity of 'Godot' is never revealed, and perhaps the men do not know Godot's identity. The men are trying to keep up their spirits as they wander the empty stage, waiting.\n\n\"The Twilight Zone\" (1959–2003) is a US television anthology series that explores unusual situations between reality and the paranormal. \"The Terminal\" (2004), is a US film in which the main character (Viktor Navorski) is trapped in a liminal space; since he can neither legally return to his home country Krakozhia nor enter the United States, he must remain in the airport terminal indefinitely until he finds a way out at the end of the film. In the film \"Waking Life\", about dreams, Aklilu Gebrewold talks about liminality.\n\n\"Liminal Space\" is an album by American breakcore artist Xanopticon. Coil mention liminality throughout their works, most explicitly with the title of their song \"Batwings (A Limnal Hymn)\" \"(sic)\" from their album Musick to Play in the Dark Vol. 2. In \".hack//Liminality\" where Harald Hoerwick, the creator of the MMORPG \"The World\", attempted to bring the real world into the online world, creating a hazy barrier between the two worlds; a concept called \"Liminality\".\n\nIn 1974, Victor Turner coined the term \"liminoid\" (from the greek word eidos, meaning \"form or shape\") to refer to experiences that have characteristics of liminal experiences but are optional and do not involve a resolution of a personal crisis. Unlike liminal events, liminoid experiences are conditional and do not result in a change of status, but merely serve as transitional moments in time. The liminal is part of society, an aspect of social or religious rites, while the liminoid is a break from society, part of \"play\" or \"playing\". With the rise in industrialization and the emergence of leisure as an acceptable form of play separate from work, liminoid experiences have become much more common than liminal rites. In these modern societies, rites are diminished and 'forged the concept of \"liminoid\" rituals for analogous but secular phenomena' such as attending rock concerts and other liminoid experiences.\n\nThe fading of liminal stages in exchange for liminoid experiences is marked by the shift in culture from tribal and agrarian to modern and industrial. In these societies, work and play are entirely separate whereas in more archaic societies, they are nearly indistinguishable. In the past play was interwoven with the nature of work as symbolic gestures and rites in order to promote fertility, abundance, and the passage of certain liminal phases; thus, work and play are inseparable and often dependent on social rites. Examples of this include Cherokee and Mayan riddles, trickster tales, sacred ball games, and joking relationships which serve holy purposes of work in liminal situations while retaining the element of playfulness.\n\nRitual and myth were, in the past, exclusively connected to collective work that served holy and often symbolic purposes; liminal rites were held in the form of coming-of-age ceremonies, celebrations of seasons, and more. Industrialization cut the cord between work and the sacred, putting \"work\" and \"play\" in separate boxes that rarely, if ever, intersected. In a famous essay regarding the shift to liminal to liminoid in industrial society, Turner offers a twofold explanation of this sect. First, society began to move away from activities concerning collective ritual obligations, placing more emphasis on the individual than the community; this led to more choice in activities, with many such as work and leisure becoming optional. Second, the work done to earn a living became entirely separate from his or her other activities so that it is \"no longer natural, but arbitrary.\" In simpler terms, the industrial revolution brought about free time that had not existed in past societies and created space for liminoid experiences to exist.\n\nSporting events such as the Olympics, NFL football games, and hockey matches are forms of liminoid experiences. They are optional activities of leisure that place both the spectator and the competitor in in-between places outside of society's norms. Sporting events also create a sense of community among fans and reinforces the collective spirit of those who take part. Homecoming football games, gymnastics meets, modern baseball games, and swim meets all qualify as liminoid and follow a seasonal schedule; therefore, the flow of sports becomes cyclical and predictable, reinforcing the liminal qualities.\n\nAirplane travel is inherently liminoid-suspended in the sky, neither here nor there and crossing thresholds of time and space, it is difficult to make sense of the experience of flying. Flights shift our existence into a limbo space in which movement becomes an accepted set of cultural performances aimed at convincing us that air travel is a reflection of reality rather than a separation from it.\n\n"}
{"id": "24535710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24535710", "title": "List of Polish cities damaged in World War II", "text": "List of Polish cities damaged in World War II\n\nAs the German army retreated during the later stages of the Second World War, many of the urban areas of what is now Poland were severely damaged as a result of military action between the retreating forces of the German Wehrmacht and advancing ones of the Soviet Red Army. Other cities were deliberately destroyed by the German forces. One of the most famous of these planned destructions was the razing of Warsaw, the capital of Poland. While extensively damaged by the failed Warsaw Ghetto Uprising and Warsaw Uprising, the city later underwent a planned demolition by German forces under order from Adolf Hitler and high officials within the Nazi government. On 17 October 1944, SS chief Heinrich Himmler famously stated, \"The city must completely disappear from the surface of the earth and serve only as a transport station for the Wehrmacht.\" Before they were stopped by the advancing Red Army, 85% of the city had been taken out. Warsaw was far from the worst off after the Nazi retreat; 97% of Jasło and 100% of Polanów were reduced to rubble. Other towns such as Wałcz fared better, with only a quarter of the city being destroyed. Ancient historical buildings in Polish cities were not spared; for example, Trzemeszno's Romanesque basilica of 1130-45 was burnt down in 1945.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15868381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15868381", "title": "List of glossing abbreviations", "text": "List of glossing abbreviations\n\nThis page lists common abbreviations for grammatical terms that are used in linguistic interlinear glossing.\n\nAbbreviations beginning with (a common prefix for \"non-\") or ending with (a common suffix for \"-izer\") may not be listed separately. For example, and are not listed below, as they are composable from + and + .\n\nAbbreviations are generally written in all caps or—apart from the terms A, S, O and P—in small caps, to distinguish them from lexical words.\n\n"}
{"id": "39171677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39171677", "title": "Lowry Tapes", "text": "Lowry Tapes\n\nThe Lowry Tapes refers to a 2013 scandal in Ireland involving the Tipperary North TD Michael Lowry, formerly a Fine Gael government minister. They feature a telephone conversation between Lowry and the land agent Kevin Phelan. The conversation featured foul language and reference to an undeclared payment of €250,000. It is believed to date from 30 September 2004 and raised uncertainty over whether Lowry had misled the Moriarty Tribunal which had previously investigated him.\n\nMuch of the controversy focused on the following comments by Lowry:\n\nJournalist Michael Clifford, writing in the \"Irish Examiner\", drew comparisons between the response - or lack thereof - from the Irish government and the British government's past responses to tamer crimes such as Jeffrey Archer's perjury and Chris Huhne's perverting the course of justice. Clifford wrote that the Lowry scandal \"tells us much about what passes for democracy in this State. [It] involves \"prima facie\" evidence that at least one crime may have been committed by serving TD and former government minister, Michael Lowry. In a proper democracy [...] this would be a matter for the police.\"\n\nThe \"Sunday Independent\" published a transcript of the Lowry Tapes; however state broadcaster RTÉ's coverage was roundly criticised and deemed inadequate. The \"Sunday Independent\" said RTÉ's self-censorship had become the story and \"The Sunday Times\" featured a piece captioned \"Our state broadcaster must learn to confront, not cower.\" One of the few mentions was provided by Marian Finucane, one of RTÉ's highest earners, who brushed over the Lowry Tapes in two minutes at the end of her show when one of her panelists brought up the topic. \"Morning Ireland\" preferred to focus its political coverage on what were termed more trivial topics, such as Luke 'Ming' Flanagan's driving technique and tweets by Gerry Adams.\n\nOn 14 March 2013, the Lowry Tapes were broadcast in full on national television, on the TV3 programme \"Tonight with Vincent Browne\".\n\nOn 9 May 2013, Taoiseach Enda Kenny responded to \"real concern\" among the public over the Lowry Tapes but said he would not reopen the Moriarty Tribunal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2703848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2703848", "title": "Museums, Libraries and Archives Council", "text": "Museums, Libraries and Archives Council\n\nThe Museums, Libraries and Archives Council (MLA) was until May 2012 a non-departmental public body and registered charity in England with a remit to promote improvement and innovation in the area of museums, libraries and archives. Its functions spanned the UK and it advised the government on policy and priorities for these areas in England, receiving funding from the Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS). The last chairman was Sir Andrew Motion (lately Poet Laureate) and last chief executive officer (CEO) was Roy Clare CBE.\n\nOn 26 July 2010 it was announced that the MLA would be abolished under new proposals put forward by the Secretary of State for Culture, Olympics, Media and Sport, Jeremy Hunt, to reduce the number of public bodies funded by government. Its functions relating to museums and libraries were transferred on 1 October 2011 to the Arts Council England, and those relating to archives to The National Archives. Some staff were employed until May 2012 to carry out remaining responsibilities including the appointment of a liquidator.\n\nThe MLA was originally established as the Standing Commission on Museums and Galleries in 1931. It was set up following the recommendations of the Final Report of the Royal Commission on National Museums and Galleries, produced in 1929 and 1930. The Standing Commission was renamed the Museums and Galleries Commission (MGC) in September 1981 and given additional responsibilities. The MGC was a registered charity and incorporated under a Royal Charter on 1 January 1987. In April 2000, the MGC and the Library and Information Commission were combined into Re:source which was later renamed the MLA Council. The MLA was represented in London by MLA London, a separate charity that received core funding from the MLA.\n\nIn 2003 the MLA was a stakeholder in the \"Framework for the Future\" report that set out a vision for the future of public libraries in England. In 2008, working with The National Archives, the MLA developed a consultation document on \"21st Century Archives\". In 2009 the MLA published \"Leading Museums\" a vision and action plan for museums.\n\nThe MLA took over the running of the Designation Scheme, which began in 1997 under the auspices of the Museums and Galleries Commission (MGC). It was expanded in 2005 to include archives and libraries as well as museums that had pre-eminent collections of national or international importance held outside of national institutions. 135 collections had been awarded Designated status by 2011. After the abolition of the MLA the Designation Scheme was taken over by Arts Council England (ACE).\n\n"}
{"id": "639115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639115", "title": "Neolithic Revolution", "text": "Neolithic Revolution\n\nThe Neolithic Revolution, Neolithic Demographic Transition, Agricultural Revolution, or First Agricultural Revolution was the wide-scale transition of many human cultures during the Neolithic period from a lifestyle of hunting and gathering to one of agriculture and settlement, making an increasingly larger population possible. These settled communities permitted humans to observe and experiment with plants to learn how they grew and developed. This new knowledge led to the domestication of plants.\n\nArchaeological data indicates that the domestication of various types of plants and animals happened in separate locations worldwide, starting in the geological epoch of the Holocene around 12,500 years ago. It was the world's first historically verifiable revolution in agriculture. The Neolithic Revolution greatly narrowed the diversity of foods available, resulting in a downturn in human nutrition.\n\nThe Neolithic Revolution involved far more than the adoption of a limited set of food-producing techniques. During the next millennia it would transform the small and mobile groups of hunter-gatherers that had hitherto dominated human pre-history into sedentary (non-nomadic) societies based in built-up villages and towns. These societies radically modified their natural environment by means of specialized food-crop cultivation, with activities such as irrigation and deforestation which allowed the production of surplus food. Other developments found very widely are the domestication of animals, pottery, polished stone tools, and rectangular houses.\n\nThese developments, sometimes called the Neolithic package, provided the basis for centralized administrations and political structures, hierarchical ideologies, depersonalized systems of knowledge (e.g. writing), densely populated settlements, specialization and division of labour, more trade, the development of non-portable art and architecture, and property ownership. The earliest known civilization developed in Sumer in southern Mesopotamia (); its emergence also heralded the beginning of the Bronze Age.\n\nThe relationship of the above-mentioned Neolithic characteristics to the onset of agriculture, their sequence of emergence, and empirical relation to each other at various Neolithic sites remains the subject of academic debate, and varies from place to place, rather than being the outcome of universal laws of social evolution. The Levant saw the earliest developments of the Neolithic Revolution from around 10,000 BCE, followed by sites in the wider Fertile Crescent.\n\nThe term \"Neolithic Revolution\" was coined in 1923 by V. Gordon Childe to describe the first in a series of agricultural revolutions in Middle Eastern history. The period is described as a \"revolution\" to denote its importance, and the great significance and degree of change affecting the communities in which new agricultural practices were gradually adopted and refined.\n\nThe beginning of this process in different regions has been dated from 10,000 to 8,000 BC in the Fertile Crescent and perhaps 8000 BC in the Kuk Early Agricultural Site of Melanesia. This transition everywhere seems associated with a change from a largely nomadic hunter-gatherer way of life to a more settled, agrarian-based one, with the inception of the domestication of various plant and animal species—depending on the species locally available, and probably also influenced by local culture. Recent archaeological research suggests that in some regions such as the Southeast Asian peninsula, the transition from hunter-gatherer to agriculturalist was not linear, but region-specific.\n\nThere are several competing (but not mutually exclusive) theories as to the factors that drove populations to take up agriculture. The most prominent of these are:\n\nOnce agriculture started gaining momentum, around 9000 BC, human activity resulted in the selective breeding of cereal grasses (beginning with emmer, einkorn and barley), and not simply of those that would favour greater caloric returns through larger seeds. Plants with traits such as small seeds or bitter taste would have been seen as undesirable. Plants that rapidly shed their seeds on maturity tended not to be gathered at harvest, therefore not stored and not seeded the following season; years of harvesting selected for strains that retained their edible seeds longer.\n\nSeveral plant species, the \"pioneer crops\" or Neolithic founder crops, were identified by Daniel Zohary, who highlighted the importance of the three cereals, and suggested that domestication of flax, peas, chickpeas, bitter vetch and lentils came a little later. Based on analysis of the genes of domesticated plants, he preferred theories of a single, or at most a very small number of domestication events for each taxon that spread in an arc from the Levantine corridor around the Fertile Crescent and later into Europe. Gordon Hillman and Stuart Davies carried out experiments with wild wheat varieties to show that the process of domestication would have occurred over a relatively short period of between 20 and 200 years. Some of these pioneering attempts failed at first and crops were abandoned, sometimes to be taken up again and successfully domesticated thousands of years later: rye, tried and abandoned in Neolithic Anatolia, made its way to Europe as weed seeds and was successfully domesticated in Europe, thousands of years after the earliest agriculture. Wild lentils presented a different problem: most of the wild seeds do not germinate in the first year; the first evidence of lentil domestication, breaking dormancy in their first year, was found in the early Neolithic at Jerf el Ahmar (in modern Syria), and quickly spread south to the Netiv HaGdud site in the Jordan Valley. This process of domestication allowed the founder crops to adapt and eventually become larger, more easily harvested, more dependable in storage and more useful to the human population.\n\nSelectively propagated figs, wild barley and wild oats were cultivated at the early Neolithic site of Gilgal I, where in 2006 archaeologists found caches of seeds of each in quantities too large to be accounted for even by intensive gathering, at strata datable to c. 11,000 years ago. Some of the plants tried and then abandoned during the Neolithic period in the Ancient Near East, at sites like Gilgal, were later successfully domesticated in other parts of the world.\n\nOnce early farmers perfected their agricultural techniques like irrigation, their crops would yield surpluses that needed storage. Most hunter gatherers could not easily store food for long due to their migratory lifestyle, whereas those with a sedentary dwelling could store their surplus grain. Eventually granaries were developed that allowed villages to store their seeds longer. So with more food, the population expanded and communities developed specialized workers and more advanced tools.\n\nThe process was not as linear as was once thought, but a more complicated effort, which was undertaken by different human populations in different regions in many different ways.\n\nEarly agriculture is believed to have originated and become widespread in Southwest Asia around 10,000–9,000 BP, though earlier individual sites have been identified. The Fertile Crescent region of Southwest Asia is the centre of domestication for three cereals (einkorn wheat, emmer wheat and barley), four legumes (lentil, pea, bitter vetch and chickpea), and flax. Domestication was a slow process involving multiple sites for each crop.\n\nFinds of large quantities of seeds and a grinding stone at the paleolithic site of Ohalo II in the vicinity of the Sea of Galilee, dated to around 19,400 BP, has shown some of the earliest evidence for advanced planning of plant food consumption and suggests that humans at Ohalo II processed the grain before consumption. Tell Aswad is the oldest site of agriculture, with domesticated emmer wheat dated to 10,800 BP. Soon after came hulled, two-row barley found domesticated earliest at Jericho in the Jordan valley and Iraq ed-Dubb in Jordan. Other sites in the Levantine corridor that show the first evidence of agriculture include Wadi Faynan 16 and Netiv Hagdud. Jacques Cauvin noted that the settlers of Aswad did not domesticate on site, but \"arrived, perhaps from the neighbouring Anti-Lebanon, already equipped with the seed for planting\". In the Eastern Fertile Crescent, evidence of cultivation of wild plants has been found in Choga Gholan in Iran dated to 12,000 BP, suggesting there were multiple regions in the Fertile Crescent where domestication evolved roughly contemporaneously. The Heavy Neolithic Qaraoun culture has been identified at around fifty sites in Lebanon around the source springs of the River Jordan, but never reliably dated.\n\nNorthern China appears to have been the domestication center for foxtail millet (\"Setaria italica\") and broomcorn millet (\"Panicum miliaceum\") with evidence of domestication of these species approximately 8,000 years ago.<ref name=\"doi10.1093/aob/mcm048\"></ref> These species were subsequently widely cultivated in the Yellow River basin (7,500 years ago). Rice was domesticated in southern China later on. Soybean was domesticated in northern China 4,500 years ago. Orange and peach also originated in China. They were cultivated around 2500 BC.\nOn the African continent, three areas have been identified as independently developing agriculture: the Ethiopian highlands, the Sahel and West Africa. By contrast, Agriculture in the Nile River Valley is thought to have developed from the original Neolithic Revolution in the Fertile Crescent. \nMany grinding stones are found with the early Egyptian Sebilian and Mechian cultures and evidence has been found of a neolithic domesticated crop-based economy dating around 7,000 BP.\nUnlike the Middle East, this evidence appears as a \"false dawn\" to agriculture, as the sites were later abandoned, and permanent farming then was delayed until 6,500 BP with the Tasian and Badarian cultures and the arrival of crops and animals from the Near East.\n\nBananas and plantains, which were first domesticated in Southeast Asia, most likely Papua New Guinea, were re-domesticated in Africa possibly as early as 5,000 years ago. Asian yams and taro were also cultivated in Africa.\n\nThe most famous crop domesticated in the Ethiopian highlands is coffee. In addition, khat, ensete, noog, teff and finger millet were also domesticated in the Ethiopian highlands. Crops domesticated in the Sahel region include sorghum and pearl millet. The kola nut was first domesticated in West Africa. Other crops domesticated in West Africa include African rice, yams and the oil palm.\n\nAgriculture spread to Central and Southern Africa in the Bantu expansion during the 1st millennium BC to 1st millennium AD.\n\nMaize (corn), beans and squash were among the earliest crops domesticated in Mesoamerica, with maize beginning about 4000 BC, squash as early as 6000 BC, and beans by no later than 4000 BC. Potatoes and manioc were domesticated in South America. In what is now the eastern United States, Native Americans domesticated sunflower, sumpweed and goosefoot around 2500 BC. Sedentary village life based on farming did not develop until the second millennium BC, referred to as the formative period.\n\nEvidence of drainage ditches at Kuk Swamp on the borders of the Western and Southern Highlands of Papua New Guinea shows evidence of the cultivation of taro and a variety of other crops, dating back to 11,000 BP. Two potentially significant economic species, taro (\"Colocasia esculenta\") and yam (\"Dioscorea\" sp.), have been identified dating at least to 10,200 calibrated years before present (cal BP). Further evidence of bananas and sugarcane dates to 6,950 to 6,440 BP. This was at the altitudinal limits of these crops, and it has been suggested that cultivation in more favourable ranges in the lowlands may have been even earlier. CSIRO has found evidence that taro was introduced into the Solomon Islands for human use, from 28,000 years ago, making taro cultivation the earliest crop in the world. It seems to have resulted in the spread of the Trans–New Guinea languages from New Guinea east into the Solomon Islands and west into Timor and adjacent areas of Indonesia. This seems to confirm the theories of Carl Sauer who, in \"Agricultural Origins and Dispersals\", suggested as early as 1952 that this region was a centre of early agriculture.\n\nWhen hunter-gathering began to be replaced by sedentary food production it became more profitable to keep animals close at hand. Therefore, it became necessary to bring animals permanently to their settlements, although in many cases there was a distinction between relatively sedentary farmers and nomadic herders. The animals' size, temperament, diet, mating patterns, and life span were factors in the desire and success in domesticating animals. Animals that provided milk, such as cows and goats, offered a source of protein that was renewable and therefore quite valuable. The animal’s ability as a worker (for example ploughing or towing), as well as a food source, also had to be taken into account. Besides being a direct source of food, certain animals could provide leather, wool, hides, and fertilizer. Some of the earliest domesticated animals included dogs (East Asia, about 15,000 years ago), sheep, goats, cows, and pigs.\n\nThe Middle East served as the source for many animals that could be domesticated, such as sheep, goats and pigs. This area was also the first region to domesticate the dromedary. Henri Fleisch discovered and termed the Shepherd Neolithic flint industry from the Bekaa Valley in Lebanon and suggested that it could have been used by the earliest nomadic shepherds. He dated this industry to the Epipaleolithic or Pre-Pottery Neolithic as it is evidently not Paleolithic, Mesolithic or even Pottery Neolithic. The presence of these animals gave the region a large advantage in cultural and economic development. As the climate in the Middle East changed and became drier, many of the farmers were forced to leave, taking their domesticated animals with them. It was this massive emigration from the Middle East that would later help distribute these animals to the rest of Afroeurasia. This emigration was mainly on an east-west axis of similar climates, as crops usually have a narrow optimal climatic range outside of which they cannot grow for reasons of light or rain changes. For instance, wheat does not normally grow in tropical climates, just like tropical crops such as bananas do not grow in colder climates. Some authors, like Jared Diamond, have postulated that this East-West axis is the main reason why plant and animal domestication spread so quickly from the Fertile Crescent to the rest of Eurasia and North Africa, while it did not reach through the North-South axis of Africa to reach the Mediterranean climates of South Africa, where temperate crops were successfully imported by ships in the last 500 years. Similarly, the African Zebu of central Africa and the domesticated bovines of the fertile-crescent — separated by the dry sahara desert — were not introduced into each other's region.\n\nDespite the significant technological advance, the Neolithic revolution did not lead immediately to a rapid growth of population. Its benefits appear to have been offset by various adverse effects,\nmostly diseases and warfare.\n\nThe introduction of agriculture has not necessarily led to unequivocal progress. The nutritional standards of the growing Neolithic populations were inferior to that of hunter-gatherers. Several ethnological and archaeological studies conclude that the transition to cereal-based diets caused a reduction in life expectancy and stature, an increase in infant mortality and infectious diseases, the development of chronic, inflammatory or degenerative diseases (such as obesity, type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases) and multiple nutritional deficiencies, including vitamin deficiencies, iron deficiency anemia and mineral disorders affecting bones (such as osteoporosis and rickets) and teeth. Average height went down from 5'10\" (178 cm) for men and 5'6\" (168 cm) for women to 5'5\" (165 cm) and 5'1\" (155 cm), respectively, and it took until the twentieth century for average human height to come back to the pre-Neolithic Revolution levels.\n\nThe traditional view is that agricultural food production supported a denser population, which in turn supported larger sedentary communities, the accumulation of goods and tools, and specialization in diverse forms of new labor. The development of larger societies led to the development of different means of decision making and to governmental organization. Food surpluses made possible the development of a social elite who were not otherwise engaged in agriculture, industry or commerce, but dominated their communities by other means and monopolized decision-making. Jared Diamond (in The World Until Yesterday) identifies the availability of milk and cereal grains as permitting mothers to raise both an older (e.g. 3 or 4 year old) and a younger child concurrently. The result is that a population can increase more rapidly. Diamond, in agreement with feminist scholars such as V. Spike Peterson, points out that agriculture brought about deep social divisions and encouraged gender inequality. \n\nAndrew Sherratt has argued that following upon the Neolithic Revolution was a second phase of discovery that he refers to as the secondary products revolution. Animals, it appears, were first domesticated purely as a source of meat. The Secondary Products Revolution occurred when it was recognised that animals also provided a number of other useful products. These included:\n\nSherratt argued that this phase in agricultural development enabled humans to make use of the energy possibilities of their animals in new ways, and permitted permanent intensive subsistence farming and crop production, and the opening up of heavier soils for farming. It also made possible nomadic pastoralism in semi arid areas, along the margins of deserts, and eventually led to the domestication of both the dromedary and Bactrian camel. Overgrazing of these areas, particularly by herds of goats, greatly extended the areal extent of deserts.\n\nLiving in one spot would have more easily permitted the accrual of personal possessions and an attachment to certain areas of land. From such a position, it is argued, prehistoric people were able to stockpile food to survive lean times and trade unwanted surpluses with others. Once trade and a secure food supply were established, populations could grow, and society would have diversified into food producers and artisans, who could afford to develop their trade by virtue of the free time they enjoyed because of a surplus of food. The artisans, in turn, were able to develop technology such as metal weapons. Such relative complexity would have required some form of social organisation to work efficiently, so it is likely that populations that had such organisation, perhaps such as that provided by religion, were better prepared and more successful. In addition, the denser populations could form and support legions of professional soldiers. Also, during this time property ownership became increasingly important to all people. Ultimately, Childe argued that this growing social complexity, all rooted in the original decision to settle, led to a second Urban Revolution in which the first cities were built.\n\nThroughout the development of sedentary societies, disease spread more rapidly than it had during the time in which hunter-gatherer societies existed. Inadequate sanitary practices and the domestication of animals may explain the rise in deaths and sickness following the Neolithic Revolution, as diseases jumped from the animal to the human population. Some examples of infectious diseases spread from animals to humans are influenza, smallpox, and measles. In concordance with a process of natural selection, the humans who first domesticated the big mammals quickly built up immunities to the diseases as within each generation the individuals with better immunities had better chances of survival. In their approximately 10,000 years of shared proximity with animals, such as cows, Eurasians and Africans became more resistant to those diseases compared with the indigenous populations encountered outside Eurasia and Africa. For instance, the population of most Caribbean and several Pacific Islands have been completely wiped out by diseases. 90% or more of many populations of the Americas were wiped out by European and African diseases before recorded contact with European explorers or colonists. Some cultures like the Inca Empire did have a large domestic mammal, the llama, but llama milk was not drunk, nor did llamas live in a closed space with humans, so the risk of contagion was limited. According to bioarchaeological research, the effects of agriculture on physical and dental health in Southeast Asian rice farming societies from 4000 to 1500 B.P. was not detrimental to the same extent as in other world regions.\n\nIn his book \"Guns, Germs, and Steel\", Jared Diamond argues that Europeans and East Asians benefited from an advantageous geographical location that afforded them a head start in the Neolithic Revolution. Both shared the temperate climate ideal for the first agricultural settings, both were near a number of easily domesticable plant and animal species, and both were safer from attacks of other people than civilizations in the middle part of the Eurasian continent. Being among the first to adopt agriculture and sedentary lifestyles, and neighboring other early agricultural societies with whom they could compete and trade, both Europeans and East Asians were also among the first to benefit from technologies such as firearms and steel swords.\nThe dispersal of Neolithic culture from the Middle East has recently been associated with the distribution of human genetic markers. In Europe, the spread of the Neolithic culture has been associated with distribution of the E1b1b lineages and Haplogroup J that are thought to have arrived in Europe from North Africa and the Near East respectively. In Africa, the spread of farming, and notably the Bantu expansion, is associated with the dispersal of Y-chromosome haplogroup E1b1a from West Africa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55956583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55956583", "title": "Northern History", "text": "Northern History\n\nNorthern History is an academic journal of the history of the northern counties of England. It was first published in 1966 under the auspices of the School of History, University of Leeds. It is indexed by Scopus.. The journal's founding Editor was G.C.F. Forster and he retired from the journal after the publication of issue 53.2. In 1997, S.J.D. Green (Professor of Modern History at the University of Leeds) joined as co-editor. In 2016, the Editorial team changed to: S.J.D. Green, Julia Barrow FBA (Professor in Medieval Studies) and Stephen Alford (Professor of Early Modern British History). The journal is currently published by Routledge. \n\nThe journal's purpose is to publish scholarly work on the history of the seven historic Northern counties of England: Cheshire, Cumberland, Durham, Lancashire, Northumberland, Westmorland and Yorkshire. Since it was launched it has always been a refereed journal, attracting articles on Northern subjects from historians in many parts of the world.\n"}
{"id": "27970405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27970405", "title": "Perfect Citizen", "text": "Perfect Citizen\n\nPerfect Citizen is a program to perform vulnerability assessment by the United States National Security Agency on U.S. critical infrastructure. It was originally reported to be a program to develop a system of sensors to detect cyber attacks on critical infrastructure computer networks in both the private and public sector through a network monitoring system named Einstein. It is funded by the Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative and thus far Raytheon has received a contract for up to $100 million for the initial stage.\n\nThe program was originally reported to be designed to monitor for, as well as neutralize and counter, cyberattacks against government agencies and private companies in critical parts of the U.S. private sector including defense, power plants, transportation, and major internet firms. The program is the successor to a previous surveillance project called \"April Strawberry\".\n\nThe project is still in an early stage, \"but NSA officials have reportedly met with utility executives and politely asked them to cooperate with the surveillance.\" Although participation is still voluntary, the government has offered incentives such as additional contracts to those who comply.\n\nThe program, which is described by critics as \"Big Brother\", has raised privacy concerns as well as concerns over government intervention in the private sector.\n\n"}
{"id": "41747007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41747007", "title": "Qillqatani", "text": "Qillqatani\n\nQillqatani (Aymara \"qillqaña\" to write, \"-ta\" a suffix to indicate the participle, \"-ni\" a suffix to indicate ownership, \"the one with something written\", Hispanicized \"Qelqatani, Quelcatani\") is an archaeological site in Peru. It is located above the Rio Chila, in the Puno Region, El Collao Province, Santa Rosa District, at a height of about above the riverbed. Qillqatani is surrounded by dry puna.\n\nThe site was declared a National Cultural Heritage \"(Patrimonio Cultural)\" of Peru. Qillqatani is known for its elaborate rock art panels.\n\nQillqatani is the first archaeological site in the Lake Titicaca basin to be systematically excavated. Archaeologists have identified 36 cultural strata at the site. From 7500 to 4000 BP, Qillqatani was inhabited by hunter-gatherers as a seasonal campsite. These early occupants hunted mostly camelids, and some deer. From 3660 BP onwards, Qillqatani was inhabited by pastoralist camelid-herders who built houses and began to occupy the site long-term. These later occupants also began to trade with people from lower attitudes to obtain \"Chenopodium\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47636978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47636978", "title": "Rafael Navarro (painter)", "text": "Rafael Navarro (painter)\n\nRafael Navarro Núñez (April 25, 1946 – July 27, 2015) was a Spanish painter.\n\nNuñez studied at \"la\" \"Escuela de Artes Aplicadas\" \"y Oficios Artísticos de Córdoba\" (the Córdoba School of Arts and Crafts), and in 1968 began advanced studies in the Santa Isabel of Hungary School of Fine Arts in Seville. In 1970, he joined the Saint Fernando School of Fine Arts of Madrid, where he spent three years dedicated to painting, silkscreen printing, mural art, the xylography and chalcography. At the same time, he undertook four courses in Drawing in the \"Círculo de Bellas Artes\" in Madrid.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1986, Nuñez served as professor at the Córdoba School of Arts and Crafts, eventually leaving to devote himself entirely to painting.\n\nHe died in 2015.\n\nHis first individual exhibition was at the Madrilenian Gallery Novart in 1978. More than thirty individual exhibitions followed as well as other collective exhibitions.\n\nNavarro liked to classify his work as expressionist, somewhere between the Spanish \"figuración\" and abstract. Madrid, where he spent ten years training, has always been a clear influence, especially in his grandmasters projects Goya (the Goya of the Black Paintings) as well as painters Francis Bacon and Antonio Saura.\n\nHe participated in the collective sample, \"60 Years of Contemporary Art\", in Córdoba (1953–2013) which was celebrated in four headquarters at the same time in December 2014.\n\nIn October 2012, he prepared a sample of his works, a magna exhibition with more than 130 works that covered more than 30 years of his work. Organized by Michael Wilkens, architect and chair of Theory of the Architecture of the University of Kassel and founder of the group Baufrösche (Ranitas constructors), Navarro exhibited in the Atelier of Langestrasse (Kassel, Germany) a group of works that were painted from 1980 to 2012. The exhibition displayed one of Navarro's last series, titled \"Nosferatu\", in addition to the series \"Matador\" and \"Toxic Landscape\", painted between 2004 and 2010. Eighteen pictures were added to the exhibition from the collector and commissioner of the exhibition, Alfonso Rodríguez, who contributed works between 1984 and 2004.\n\nStand-out individual exhibitions:\n\n"}
{"id": "429650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429650", "title": "Ratification", "text": "Ratification\n\nRatification is a principal's approval of an act of its agent that lacked the authority to bind the principal legally. Ratification defines the international act in which a state indicates its consent to be bound to a treaty if the parties intended to show their consent by such an act. In the case of bilateral treaties, ratification is usually accomplished by exchanging the requisite instruments, and in the case of multilateral treaties, the usual procedure is for the depositary to collect the ratifications of all states, keeping all parties informed of the situation.\n\nThe institution of ratification grants states the necessary time-frame to seek the required approval for the treaty on the domestic level and to enact the necessary legislation to give domestic effect to that treaty. The term applies to private contract law, international treaties, and constitutions in federal states such as the United States and Canada. The term is also used in parliamentary procedure in deliberative assemblies.\n\nIn contract law, the need for ratification can arise in two ways: if the agent attempts to bind the principal despite lacking the authority to do so; and if the principal authorizes the agent to make an agreement, but reserves the right to approve it. An example of the former situation is an employee not normally responsible for procuring supplies contracting to do so on the employer's behalf. The employer's choice on discovering the contract is to ratify it or to repudiate it.\n\nThe latter situation is common in trade union collective bargaining agreements. The union authorizes one or more people to negotiate and sign an agreement with management. A collective bargaining agreement can not become legally binding until the union members ratify the agreement. If they do not approve it, the agreement is void, and negotiations resume.\n\nThe ratification of international treaties is always accomplished by filing instruments of ratification as provided for in the treaty. In most democracies, the legislature authorizes the government to ratify treaties through standard legislative procedures by passing a bill.\n\nThe President makes a treaty in exercise of his executive power, on the aid and the advice of the Council of Ministers headed by the Prime Minister, and no court of law in India may question its validity. However, no agreement or treaty entered into by the president is enforceable by the courts which is incompatible with Indian constitution/ national law, as India follows dualist theory for the implementation of international laws.\n\nIf the Parliament wishes to codify the agreement entered into by the executive thereby making it enforceable by the courts of India, it may do so under of the constitution.\n\nTreaty ratification was a Royal Prerogative, exercised by Her Majesty on the advice of her Government. By a convention called the Ponsonby Rule, treaties were usually placed before parliament for 21 days before ratification. It was put onto a statutory footing by the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010.\n\nTreaty power is a co-ordinated effort between the Executive branch and the Senate. The President may form and negotiate, but the treaty must be advised and consented to by a two-thirds vote in the Senate. Only after the Senate approves the treaty can the President ratify it. Once it is ratified, it becomes binding on all the states under the Supremacy Clause. While the House of Representatives does not vote on it at all, the requirement for the Senate's advice and consent to ratification makes it considerably more difficult to rally enough political support for international treaties. Also, if implementation of the treaty requires the expenditure of funds, the House of Representatives may be able to block or at least impede such implementation by refusing to vote for the appropriation of the necessary funds.\n\nThe President usually submits a treaty to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee (SFRC) along with an accompanying resolution of ratification or accession. If the treaty and resolution receive favorable committee consideration (a committee vote in favor of ratification or accession), the treaty is then forwarded to the floor of the full Senate for such a vote. The treaty or legislation does not apply until it has been ratified. A multilateral agreement may provide that it will take effect upon its ratification by less than all of the signatories. Even though such a treaty takes effect, it does not apply to signatories that have not ratified it. Accession has the same legal effect as ratification, for treaties already negotiated and signed by other states. An example of a treaty to which the Senate did not advise and consent to ratification is the Treaty of Versailles, which failed to garner support because of the Covenant of the League of Nations.\n\nThe US can also enter into international agreements by way of executive agreements. They are not made under the Treaty Clause and do not require ratification of two thirds of the Senate. Congressional-executive agreements are passed by a majority of both houses of Congress as a regular law. If the agreement is completely within the President's constitutional powers, it can be made by the President alone without Congressional approval, but it will have the force of an executive order and can be unilaterally revoked by a future President. All types of agreements are treated internationally as \"treaties\". See Foreign policy of the United States#Law.\n\nIn Australia, power to enter into treaties is an executive power within Section 51 of the Australian Constitution so the Australian Government may enter into a binding treaty without seeking parliamentary approval. However, implementation of treaties requires legislation by the Australian parliament, following Section 51(xxix) of the Australian Constitution, signed by the Governor-General of Australia.\n\nIn Japan, in principle both houses of the parliament (the National Diet) must approve the treaty for ratification. If the House of Councilors rejects a treaty approved by the House of Representatives, and a joint committee of both houses cannot come to agreement on amendments to the original text of the treaty, or the House of Councilors fails to decide on a treaty for more than thirty days, the House of Representatives the will be regarded as the vote of the National Diet approving the ratification. The approved treaty will then be promulgated into law by the act of the Emperor.\n\nFederations usually require the support of both the federal government and some given percentage of the constituent governments for amendments to the federal constitution to take effect.\n\nNot all constitutional amendments in India require ratification by the states. Only constitutional amendments that seek to make any change in any of the provisions mentioned in the proviso to of the Constitution of India, must be ratified by the Legislatures of not less than one-half of the States. These provisions relate to certain matters concerning the federal structure or of common interest to both the Union and the States viz., the election of the President (articles 54 and 55); the extent of the executive power of the Union and the States (Articles 73 and 162); the High Courts for Union territories (Article 241); The Union Judiciary and the High Courts in the States (Chapter IV of Part V and Chapter V of Part VI); the distribution of legislative powers between the Union and the States (Chapter I of Part XI and Seventh Schedule); the representation of States in Parliament; and the provision for amendment of the Constitution laid down in Article 368. Ratification is done by a resolution passed by the State Legislatures. There is no specific time limit for the ratification of an amending Bill by the State Legislatures. However, the resolutions ratifying the proposed amendment must be passed before the amending Bill is presented to the President for his assent.\n\nHowever, when the treaty terms are interfering with the powers exclusively applicable to states (State List), prior ratification of all applicable states are to be obtained per of the Indian constitution before the ratification by the Parliament.\n\nArticle Seven of the constitution of the United States describes the process by which the entire document was to become effective. It required that conventions of nine of the thirteen original States ratify the constitution. If fewer than thirteen states ratified the document, it would become effective only among the states ratifying it. New Hampshire was the ninth state to ratify, doing so on June 21, 1788, but, as a practical matter, it was decided to delay implementation of the new government until New York and Virginia could be persuaded to ratify. Congress intended that New York City should be the first capital, and that George Washington, of Mount Vernon, Virginia, should be the first President, and both of those things would have been somewhat awkward if either New York or Virginia were not part of the new government. Ratification by those states was secured - Virginia on June 25 and New York on July 26 - and the government under the Constitution began on March 4, 1789.\n\nFor subsequent amendments, Article Five describes the process of a potential amendment's adoption. Proposals to adopt an amendment may be called either by a two-thirds vote by both houses of Congress or by a national convention as a result of resolutions adopted by two-thirds (presently at least 34 out of 50) of the states' legislatures. For an amendment to be adopted, three-quarters of the states (presently at least 38 out of 50) must ratify the amendment either by a vote of approval in each state's legislature or by state ratifying conventions – Congress may specify which method must be used to ratify the amendment. Congress may also set a deadline by which the threshold for adoption must be met.\n\nA deliberative assembly, using parliamentary procedure, could ratify action that otherwise was not validly taken. For example, action taken where there was no quorum at the meeting is not valid until it is later ratified at a meeting where a quorum is present.\n\n"}
{"id": "420034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420034", "title": "Religiosity", "text": "Religiosity\n\nReligiosity is difficult to define, but different scholars have seen this concept as broadly about religious orientations and involvement. It includes experiential, ritualistic, ideological, intellectual, consequential, creedal, communal, doctrinal, moral, and cultural dimensions. Sociologists of religion have observed that the people's beliefs, sense of belonging, and behavior often are not congruent with an individual's actual religious beliefs since there is much diversity in how one can be religious or not. Multiple problems exist in measuring religiosity. For instance, variables such as church attendance produce different results when different methods are used such as traditional surveys vs time use surveys. \n\nDecades of anthropological, sociological, and psychological research have established that \"religious congruence\" (the assumption that religious beliefs and values are tightly integrated in an individual's mind or that religious practices and behaviors follow directly from religious beliefs or that religious beliefs are chronologically linear and stable across different contexts) is actually rare. People’s religious ideas are fragmented, loosely connected, and context-dependent; like in all other domains of culture and in life. The beliefs, affiliations, and behaviors of any individual are complex activities that have many sources including culture. As examples of religious incongruence he notes, \"Observant Jews may not believe what they say in their Sabbath prayers. Christian ministers may not believe in God. And people who regularly dance for rain don’t do it in the dry season.\"\n\nDemographic studies often show wide diversity of religious beliefs, belonging, and practices in both religious and non-religious populations. For instance, out of Americans who are not religious and not seeking religion: 68% believe in God, 12% are atheists, 17% are agnostics; also, in terms of self-identification of religiosity 18% consider themselves religious, 37% consider themselves as spiritual but not religious, and 42% considers themselves as neither spiritual nor religious; and 21% pray every day and 24% pray once a month. Global studies on religion also show diversity.\n\nNumerous studies have explored the different components of human religiosity (Brink, 1993; Hill & Hood 1999). What most have found is that there are multiple dimensions (they often employ factor analysis). For instance, Cornwall, Albrecht, Cunningham and Pitcher (1986) identify six dimensions of religiosity based on the understanding that there are at least three components to religious behavior: knowing (cognition in the mind), feeling (effect to the spirit), and doing (behavior of the body). For each of these components of religiosity, there were two cross classifications resulting in the six dimensions:\n\nOther researchers have found different dimensions, ranging generally from four to twelve components. What most measures of religiosity find is that there is at least some distinction between religious doctrine, religious practice, and spirituality.\n\nFor example, one can accept the truthfulness of the Bible (belief dimension), but never attend a church or even belong to an organized religion (practice dimension). Another example is an individual who does not hold orthodox Christian doctrines (belief dimension), but does attend a charismatic worship service (practice dimension) in order to develop his/her sense of oneness with the divine (spirituality dimension).\n\nAn individual could disavow all doctrines associated with organized religions (belief dimension), not affiliate with an organized religion or attend religious services (practice dimension), and at the same time be strongly committed to a higher power and feel that the connection with that higher power is ultimately relevant (spirituality dimension). These are explanatory examples of the broadest dimensions of religiosity and may not be reflected in specific religiosity measures.\n\nMost dimensions of religiosity are correlated, meaning people who often attend church services (practice dimension) are also likely to score highly on the belief and spirituality dimensions. But individuals do not have to score high on all dimensions or low on all dimensions; their scores can vary by dimension.\n\nSociologists have differed over the exact number of components of religiosity. Charles Glock's five-dimensional approach (Glock, 1972: 39) was among the first of its kind in the field of sociology of religion. Other sociologists adapted Glock's list to include additional components (see for example, a six component measure by Mervin F. Verbit).\n\nThe contributions of genes and environment to religiosity have been quantified in studies of twins (Bouchard \"et al.\", 1999; Kirk \"et al.\", 1999) and sociological studies of welfare, availability, and legal regulations (state religions, etc.).\n\nKoenig \"et al.\" (2005) report that the contribution of genes to variation in religiosity (called heritability) increases from 12% to 44% and the contribution of shared (family) effects decreases from 56% to 18% between adolescence and adulthood.\n\nA market-based theory of religious choice and governmental regulation of religion have been the dominant theories used to explain variations of religiosity between societies. However, Gill and Lundsgaarde (2004) documented a much stronger correlation between welfare state spending and religiosity. See \"Welfare spending vs Church attendance\" diagram on the right.\n\nStudies have found belief in a just world to be correlated with aspects of religiousness.\n\nSeveral studies have discovered a positive correlation between the degree of religiousness and Risk aversion\n\n\nDemographics:\n\n"}
{"id": "5222134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5222134", "title": "Retro-Pulp Tales", "text": "Retro-Pulp Tales\n\nRetro-Pulp Tales is a limited edition anthology published by Subterranean Press in 2006, edited by Joe R. Lansdale. It tied in winning the 2006 Bram Stoker Award for Best Anthology (the other winning title was \"Mondo Zombie\" edited by John Skipp).\n\nIt contains new stories written in the style of the pulp magazines of the early 20th century. Lansdale's guidelines for Retro Pulp Tales were basic: \"Write a story in the vein of the old pulps ... that takes place before 1960, and with the restrictions of those times.\"\n\nIt includes contributions by Bill Crider, Stephen Gallagher, Melissa Mia Hall, Alex Irvine, Tim Lebbon, Kim Newman, Norman Partridge, Gary Phillips, James Reasoner, Al Sarrantonio, Chet Williamson, and F. Paul Wilson. This collection was issued as a trade hardcover, a numbered limited edition, and a lettered special edition. All issues have long since sold out.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52220220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52220220", "title": "Speaking Into The Air", "text": "Speaking Into The Air\n\nSpeaking into the Air: A History of the Idea of Communication, written by American scholar John Durham Peters, is a classic and important work in Commucation area and also the first and most well-known book of John Durham Peters. In this book, the author asserts that communicating like angels is \"impossible\" but it is not just a tragic fact but also a blessed one. This book talks about the history of communication failure from different aspects like philosophy, politics, media technology and so forth. This book won the National Communication Association Award in 2000.\n\n\"Speaking into the Air: A history of the Idea of Communication\" studies on Communication failure. It contains five phrases of history of the idea of Communication, Plaeo's eros, The Bible's one-way dissemination, Religious Angle communication in Middle Ages, Spiritual communication in modern philosophy, and the communication idea in modern communication theory. It also involves the subject machines, animals and aliens as horizons of incommunicability.\n\nAt the end of the Introduction \"he Problem of Communication\", Peters asserts that \"dissemination\" can be more charming：\n\n\"The most beautiful thing about our contact with each other is its free dissemination, not its anguished communion. The ultimate futility of our attempts to \"communicate\" is not lamentable; it is a handsome condition. The notion of communication deserves to be liberated from its earnestness and spiritualism, its demand for precision and agreement, demands whose long history I attempt to illustrate in this book. The requirement of interpersonal mimesis can be despotic...The idea of communication, as Adorno said, would be a condition in which the only thing that survives the disgraceful fact of our mutual difference is the delight that the difference makes possible.\"\n\nAnd then in the first chapter \"Dialogue and Dissemination\", Peters compares two forms of communication: dialogue and dissemination and makes an argument that “dialogue can be tyrannical and dissemination can be just”, which provides an interesting perspective of one-way communication: dissemination. And my study about dissemination of Chinese literature is based on the pressing industries, is all about book. Compared to radio, television, internet, books like newspaper, magazines and other pressing productions can be more like the media of one-way communication, since we can easily make instant interactions through radio, television, internet but as for books, due to the lack of interaction, the audiences may have more time and freedom to interpret meanings by themselves.\n\nTo illustrate, we may use the theory of Encoding and Decoding by Stuart Hall, as shown right:\n\nA programme can be encoded and decoded separately by different groups of people. In a dialogue or any other means of interaction, encoding and decoding can happen in turn or together frequently within a certain time between the two sides. And because of such strong interaction in it, say, the two sides have hugely different frameworks of knowledge, and then what will happen? Probably, they start to fight against each other... more emotion and non-rationality are filled in. Say, the two sides are more polite and open to the other’s opinions and maybe they have to force themselves to adjust their framework of knowledge and achieve a consistent but not perfectly accepted point at the end. As Peters said, dialogue can be tyrannical. More conflicts and disgraceful compromise may happen in a dialogue. Of course, in a one-way dissemination, say the dissemination of Chinese Contemporary literature books overseas, the process of encoding of Chinese writers is complete without too much distraction from the audiences overseas. The writers can fill their knowledge, feelings and thoughts in their books. And through the dissemination overseas, audiences in the far access the productions and decode the meanings by themselves with less distraction. Of course, the audiences could write book reviews or make direct connections to the authors, and at the same time, the authors could hold book launches or make a speech to make connections with the authors. But this kind of interaction afterwards can’t compete with the counterpart in instant dialogues in a phone call and chats in the social media, where encoding and decoding happen together at the same time. This kind of inspires me to reconsider the beauty of \"dissemination\"----one-way communication. But we should also realize that either in a dialogue or the dissemination, the failure always exists. Regardless of the tragedy, what we should also keep in mind is that “ the idea of communication, as Adorno said, would be a condition in which the only thing that survives the disgraceful fact of our mutual difference is the delight that the difference makes possible.”\n\nJohn Durham Peters\n\nJohn Durham Peters,1999.S\"peaking into the Air: A History of the Idea of Communication\".Chicago: University of Chicago Press\n"}
{"id": "13330046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13330046", "title": "Stefan Th. Gries", "text": "Stefan Th. Gries\n\nStefan Th. Gries (born 1970) is (full) professor of linguistics in the Department of Linguistics at the University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB), Honorary Liebig-Professor of the Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen (since September 2011), and since 1 April 2018 also Chair of English Linguistics (Corpus Linguistics with a focus on quantitative methods, 25%) at the Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen. He was a Visiting Chair (2013–2017) of the Centre for Corpus Approaches to Social Science at Lancaster University and was the Leibniz Professor (spring semester 2017) at the Research Academy Leipzig of the Leipzig University. \n\nGries earned his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees at the University of Hamburg, Germany, in 1998 and 2000. He was at the Department of Business Communication and Information Science of the University of Southern Denmark at Sønderborg (1998–2005), first as a lecturer, then as assistant professor and tenured associate professor; during that time, he also taught English linguistics part-time at the Department of British and American Studies of the University of Hamburg. In 2005, he spent 10 months as a visiting scholar in the Psychology Department of the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany, before he accepted a position at UCSB, starting November 1, 2005.\nGries was a visiting professor at the 2007, 2011, 2013, and 2015 LSA Linguistic Institutes at Stanford University, the University of Colorado at Boulder, the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, and the University of Chicago, and he will be a Visiting Professor at the 2019 LSA Linguistic Institute at the University of California, Davis.\n\nMethodologically, Gries is a quantitative corpus linguist at the intersection of corpus linguistics, cognitive linguistics, and computational linguistics, who uses a variety of different statistical methods to investigate linguistic topics such as morphophonology (the formation of morphological blends), syntax (syntactic alternations), the syntax-lexis interface (collostructional analysis), and semantics (polysemy, antonymy, and near synonymy in English and Russian) and corpus-linguistic methodology (corpus homogeneity and comparisons, association and dispersion measures, \"n\"-gram identification and exploration, and other quantitative methods), as well as first and second/foreign language acquisition. Occasionally and mainly collaboratively, he also uses experimental methods (acceptability judgments, sentence completion, priming, self-paced reading times, and sorting tasks). Much of his recent work involves the open source software R.\n\nTheoretically, he is a cognitively oriented usage-based linguist (with an interest in Construction Grammar) in the wider sense of seeking explanations in terms of cognitive processes without being a cognitive linguist in the narrower sense of following any one particular cognitive-linguistic theory. The researchers who have influenced his work most are R. Harald Baayen, Douglas Biber, Nick C. Ellis, Adele E. Goldberg, and Michael Tomasello.\n\n\n\nGries has co-edited a special issue of the \"Brazilian Journal of Applied Linguistics\". He has (co-)written articles in \"Cognitive Linguistics\" \"International Journal of Corpus Linguistics\",) as well as in other peer-reviewed journals. He was the co-founder (2005), co-editor-in-chief (2005-2010), then editor-in-chief (2010-2015) of the international peer-reviewed journal \"Corpus Linguistics and Linguistic Theory\" (of which he now is the General Editor, 2016-), co-editor-in-chief of \"Journal of Research Design and Statistics in Linguistics and Communication Science\", and associate co-editor of \"Cognitive Linguistic Studies\", and performs editorial functions for the international peer-reviewed journals \"Brazilian Journal of Applied Linguistics\", \"Cognitive Linguistics\", \"Cognitive Semantics\", \"CogniTextes\", \"Constructions\", \"Constructions and Frames\", \"Corpora\", \"Corpus Linguistics Research\", \"Glottotheory\", \"International Journal of Corpus Linguistics\", \"International Journal of Learner Corpus Research\", \"Journal of Language Modelling\", \"Language and Cognition\", and \"Linguistic Approaches to Bilingualism\" as well as for the book series 'Cognitive Linguistics and Practice' (published by John Benjamins), 'Corpora and Language in Use' (published by Louvain University Press), and 'Explorations in English Language and Linguistics' (published by universities in Croatia and Bosnia & Herzegovina).\n\n"}
{"id": "36158001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36158001", "title": "Surplus women", "text": "Surplus women\n\nSurplus women is a phrase coined during the Industrial Revolution referring to a perceived excess of unmarried women in Britain.\n\nThe 19th century saw improvements to agricultural productivity that stimulated population growth while reducing the demand for farm labour. This led to a worker surplus that was mainly absorbed by either domestic industry or New World agriculture. The surplus was roughly equal between the sexes, however disproportionate opportunities existed for men over women in employment domestically and abroad, and in armed service. By 1850 more than a quarter of the female population of the UK between 20 and 45 was unmarried, and finding increasing difficulty in accessing economic means.\n\nThe 1851 census put numbers to this disparity – between five hundred thousand and one million more women than men. The figures caused moral and social panic, with the widespread belief that there would be large numbers of unmarried women living lives of misery and poverty. Between 1850 and 1900 opportunities for women were expanding beyond simple domestic employment – at one point representing almost 40% of the British workforce. By the outbreak of the First World War this figure had declined to 32%, in large part due to the decline of the domestic sector. However, these jobs tended toward low wages and poor advancement opportunities; generally factory work, one of the largest female sectors was the textile trade.\n\nThe outbreak of war severely impacted these sectors; for example the collapse of cotton exports. At one point female unemployment was around 44%.\n\nEven before the war, six out of seven children in Britain were compelled by financial necessity to leave school at the age of 14 to go into the workforce to earn a wage. In 1901, over half of all women workers were under 25 years of age. By 1911, 77 per cent of women workers were single, 14 per cent were married and 9 per cent were either divorced or widowed. Regardless of their marital status, females were able to find job opportunities, especially during the First World War due to absence of males in the workforce. Halfway through the war, by 1916, the female labor force had grown by 600,000.\n\nWorld War I compounded the gender imbalance. The deaths of nearly one million men during the war increased the gender gap by over a million; from 670,000 to 1,700,000. The number of unmarried women seeking economic means grew dramatically. In addition, demobilisation and economic decline following the war caused high unemployment. The war increased female employment; however, the return of demobilised men displaced many from the workforce, as did the closure of many of the wartime factories. Hence women who had worked during the war found themselves struggling to find jobs and those approaching working age were not offered the opportunity.\n\nMany women during World War I sought employment opportunities at factories. Women’s health became a concern, as they were being exposed to working conditions that they were not used to. There were fears that the factory work undertaken by female workers could exert a damaging influence on their health, mind and morals. Specifically, women’s reproductive health was a concern. Britain was looking out for their future generation of workers; Britain needed a healthy labor force to maintain their country. The debate about female workers’ health soon went beyond an earlier concern with just their reproductive organs and functions. There were new health codes implemented embracing the health of girls and young women who were in the workforce. There were efforts to implement a national occupational health service. This service was negotiated between the government, unions, employers, and medical professionals. This health movement was aimed at keeping Britain safe pre and post war.\n\nAlso a concern, was women becoming too involved in their work life and distancing themselves from their domestic life. Socially, women were still expected to keep a clean house and run a smooth household. Some men were against women having a work life outside of their children. These men believed that it was in the children's best interest to have a full-time mother around parenting the children. Their reasoning behind their firm belief was simply that the future generation of workers were more important. At this point in history women were not seen as equals to men in the workforce and experienced prejudice towards their employment status. Many women were also still unmarried due to the larger number of women compared to men in Britain at this time.\n\nWorld War II led to more job opportunities for women. Women were able to use their specific skill sets in the work force. Some women used their geographical skills and training to create accurate maps during wartime. These women were embraced in the workforce for having such talents. After the Second World War there was a closure of wartime nurseries (Morelli 68). This became an obstacle for working mothers or mothers who wanted to work. The closure of these nurseries expressed the government’s support of women staying at home and leading a domestic life. This government decision had little effect on working mothers because they used other means of childcare. Children would be left with family during the day or at the neighbor’s house. Women still experienced low wages and high unemployment. This was due to the ongoing labor shortage in the 1950s. Their employers in the workforce were also continually discriminating against women. Women in the workforce were sometimes viewed as neglecting their motherly duties. Societal pressure was on for women to conform to certain norms when it came to being the proper mother or wife, this could be interpreted as women choosing not to pursue a working career. After the Second World War more women were married with children compared to the First World War, decades earlier.\n\nThe British government viewed emigration as a solution to several social issues caused by the war and preceding century. An emigration bill in 1918 established the Government Emigration Committee, which was quickly renamed the Overseas Settlement Committee. The act aimed to organise pre-existing emigration societies – volunteer organisations, often operated by society women, set up to assist with emigration to the colonies.\n\nIn 1919 the committee hosted a conference on Women's emigration, which led to the creation of the Society for the Oversea Settlement of British Women. Essentially the women's department of the Overseas Settlement Committee, it received an annual budget of £5,000.\n\nThe SOSBW had panels devoted regions (Africa, Canada, Australia, New Zealand) and career sectors (such as nursing, training and agriculture).\n\nFurther obstruction to economic means came about by the presence of a marriage bar in many occupations. Also, due to the extended life expectancy of women, the loss of pension income attached to deceased males also contributed to the surplus women issue. Florence White was instrumental in campaigning for pensions for women in order to alleviate this issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "51357227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51357227", "title": "The Geological Museum and Art Gallery (Dilijan)", "text": "The Geological Museum and Art Gallery (Dilijan)\n\nThe Geological Museum and Art Gallery of Dilijan is a museum of local history and an art gallery in Dilijan, Armenia.\n\nThe museum was opened in 1950 by the teacher Yeghishe Hovsepyan. It provides a comprehensive view of the history of Dilijan, the historical development of the local people, their lifestile, culture monuments, historical and geographical conditions. The art gallery was established in 1958.\n\nThough the museum was established by Yeghishe Hovsepyan, its long-time director Albert Matinyan and the Honored Artist of the Republic of Armenia Hovhannes Sharambeyan made every effort to make it treasury of archaeological items and works of art. Initially, all the items were collected in the town library. The former building of the museum was built in 1926 as a hotel, later used as a hospital and afterwards again was used as a hotel. It underwent reconstruction in 1927 to host the Geological Museum and Art Gallery of Dilijan. The old building of the museum was demolished, and during five years new building of the museum was built. The official opening of the museum was held in 2010. It was opened to the public on 1 April 2011.\n\nThe museum exhibits the original works of Hovhannes Aivazovsky, Gevorg Bashinjaghian, Vardges Sureniants, Panos Terlemezyan, Edgar Chahine, Lev Lagorio, and Jean-Baptiste Greuzeare. It has also works of Dutch, Italian and French painters of the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries, as well as paintings by the American painter Rockwell Kent and works of Jean Carzou.\n\n"}
{"id": "2838403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2838403", "title": "Waffle (speech)", "text": "Waffle (speech)\n\nWaffle is language without meaning; blathering, babbling, droning. One might waffle throughout an essay or a presentation, when not having enough material, or needing to fill in time. The term may be derived from the Scots verb \"waff\" \"to wave, fluctuate\".\n\nThe term \"to waffle\", particularly in the U.S., can also denote indecision about particular subjects; \"waffling\" can also mean changing one's mind frequently on a topic. \"Example: \"Craig always waffles when he's speaking to Genevieve on the telephone\". To which Genevieve usually replies \"Come on Craig, come out with it!\".\" In can be used as a derogatory term; to describe, for instance, a candidate or politician who is considered to easily switch sides on issues to curry political favor (i.e. \"flip-flop\"), as an easily flipped breakfast food with the same name – hence the waffle famously used to represent President Bill Clinton in the \"Doonesbury\" comic strip.\n"}
{"id": "38001596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38001596", "title": "Wolfgang Schweickard", "text": "Wolfgang Schweickard\n\nWolfgang Schweickard (born 16 October 1954 in Aschaffenburg) is a German Romance studies scholar and lexicographer.\n\nHis main research areas are history of Romance languages and lexicography. He is co-editor of the \"Zeitschrift für romanische Philologie\" and the yearbook \"Lexicographica\". Current projects are the \"Deonomasticon Italicum\" (DI), the \"Lessico etimologico italiano (LEI)\" (together with Max Pfister) and the \"Dictionnaire étymologique des langues romanes\" (DÉRom) (together with Eva Buchi).\n\n"}
{"id": "22976632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22976632", "title": "Ángel R. Cabada", "text": "Ángel R. Cabada\n\nÁngel R. Cabada is a town \"(villa)\" in the Mexican state of Veracruz. Located in the state's Papaloapan River region, it serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name.\n\nIn the 2005 INEGI Census, the town reported a total population of 11,689.\n\nThe town is named after Ángel Rosario Cabada (1872-1921), an agrarian leader. Previously, the town was named El Mesón. El Mesón had been a small regional center of the Olmec or Epi-Olmec culture during a period between 400 BCE and 100 CE. Local farmers found the El Mesón Stela in the 1950s. (Tres Zapotes, about 15 km south of El Mesón, was part of the Olmec heartland.)\n\n"}
