{"id": "30230141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30230141", "title": "2010–11 Ivorian crisis", "text": "2010–11 Ivorian crisis\n\nThe 2010–11 Ivorian crisis was a political crisis in Ivory Coast which began after Laurent Gbagbo, the President of Ivory Coast since 2000, was proclaimed the winner of the Ivorian election of 2010, the first election in the country in 10 years. The opposition candidate, Alassane Ouattara, and a number of countries, organisations and leaders worldwide claimed Ouattara had won the election. After months of attempted negotiation and sporadic violence, the crisis entered a decisive stage as Ouattara's forces began a military offensive in which they quickly gained control of most of the country and besieged key targets in Abidjan, the country's largest city. International organizations have reported numerous human rights violations, and the UN undertook its own military action with the stated objective to protect itself and civilians.\n\nA significant step in bringing an end to the crisis occurred on 11 April 2011 upon the capture and arrest of Gbagbo in Abidjan by pro-Ouattara forces backed by French forces.\n\nOn 2 December 2010, Youssouf Bakayoko, head of the Ivorian Commission Electorale Indépendante (CEI), announced provisional results showing that Alassane Ouattara had won the Ivorian election of 2010 in the second round with 54.1% of the vote, against 45.9% for Laurent Gbagbo; he reported that turnout was 81.09%. Results had been expected and then postponed for days, beyond the deadline, and Bakayoko's appearance to announce the results—at an Abidjan hotel heavily guarded by the UN—took the press by surprise. Bakayoko reportedly chose to announce the results at the hotel, which Ouattara had been using as \"his base\", because he wanted to have the security of UN protection when doing so. \n\nPaul Yao N'Dre, the President of the Constitutional Council (a body that was viewed by the opposition as favoring Gbagbo, because N'Dre was considered an ally of the President), then took to the airwaves to say that the CEI had no authority left to announce any results, because it had already missed its deadline to announce them, and consequently the results were invalid. According to N'Dre, the passing of the deadline meant that only the Constitutional Council was \"authorised to announce decisions on the contested results.\" It was widely presumed that the Court would issue a ruling favoring Gbagbo, although the CEI's results indicated that Gbagbo could only be credited with victory if hundreds of thousands of votes were invalidated.\n\nAt the heart of the dispute lies article 94 of the Constitution of Côte d'Ivoire, which reads:\n\nThe Constitutional Council shall control the regularity of the operations of the referendum and proclaims the results.\n\nThe Council shall decide on:\nThe Constitutional Council shall proclaim the final results of the presidential elections.\n\nShortly after the announcements, the military sealed the country's borders.\n\nOn 3 December, the Constitutional Council declared Gbagbo winner. N'Dre announced that the results in seven northern regions were cancelled, and on that basis declaring the outcome narrowly in favor of Gbagbo, who was credited with 51.45% of the vote while Ouattara had 48.55%.\n\nOn the basis of the CEI's results, Ouattara maintained that he was \"the elected President\" and said that the Constitutional Council had \"abused its authority, the whole world knows it, and I am sorry for my country's image\". He had the clear backing of the international and regional community for his claim to victory, but top officers in the military appeared to stand firmly behind Gbagbo.\n\nThe New Forces and Prime Minister Guillaume Soro both supported Ouattara's claim to victory; Soro said that he considered Ouattara the rightful President and offered his resignation to Gbagbo on 4 December.\n\nGbagbo was sworn in for another five-year term on 4 December, defiantly declaring: \"I will continue to work with all the countries of the world, but I will never give up our sovereignty.\" Sporadic violence and gunfire were reported in various parts of the country, including Abidjan. Gbagbo appointed a new Prime Minister, Gilbert Aké, on 5 December; Aké, an economist and university president, was already regarded as close to Gbagbo.\n\nOuattara himself was sworn in separately shortly after, saying that \"Ivory Coast is now in good hands\". Ouattara then re-appointed Soro as his prime minister.\n\nThere had been rallies from pro-Gbagbo and pro-Ouattara sides. Simone Gbagbo, wife of Laurent Gbagbo, gave a speech in the pro-Gbagbo rally on 15 January 2011. Ivorian forces have fired live bullets to disperse protesters. In Abobo, an Abidjan suburb and a stronghold of Ouattara's supporters, there were many violent clashes between security forces and civilians.\n\nAya Virginie Toure organized over 40,000 women in peaceful protests that were violently repressed. In an impassioned interview on BBC News, Toure compared the ongoing Second Ivorian Civil War to the 2011 Libyan civil war and asked for support from the international community. She called for military intervention to remove Laurent Gbagbo from power the same way Charles Taylor was removed in the Second Liberian Civil War.\n\nOn 18 December, a United Nations spokesperson said in response to a Gbagbo demand that foreign armed troops leave the country that the UN did not consider Gbagbo to be the president, and that peacekeepers would continue to support and protect both Alassane Ouattara and Ivorian citizens.\n\nOn 23 December 2010, the United Nations Human Rights Council passed a resolution that \"strongly condemned human rights violations that had taken place in Côte d'Ivoire...that occurred in different parts of Côte d'Ivoire in relation to the conclusion of the 2010 presidential election.\" The resolution was criticized by Amnesty International as having insufficiently addressed the situation.\n\nAngola and Lebanon were the only countries to send their ambassadors to Gbagbo's swearing-in. The African Union—which, like the United Nations, formally recognised Ouattara as the duly elected President—warned that the conflicting results and subsequent political crisis could result in \"incalculable consequences\", and sent former President of South Africa Thabo Mbeki to mediate the issue. The US, UN, EU, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and former colonial power France affirmed their support to Ouattara.\n\nOn 5 December, former President Thabo Mbeki held separate talks with Gbagbo and Ouattara, acting as a mediator. The African Union had appointed Mbeki to lead an emergency mission to Côte d'Ivoire \"to facilitate the rapid and peaceful conclusion of the electoral process and the efforts to find a way out of the crisis.\" However, he left the next day without a deal.\n\nGabonese opposition leader André Mba Obame cited the events in Ivory Coast and the international recognition of Ouattara as Ivorian President as inspiration for declaring himself winner of the controversial 2009 Gabonese presidential election, sparking an ongoing political crisis in Gabon.\n\nOn 28 December, presidents Yayi Boni of Benin, Ernest Bai Koroma of Sierra Leone and Pedro Pires of Cape Verde arrived in the country on behalf of ECOWAS, to convince Gbagbo to resign and go into exile for the sake of his country, while declaring it was Gbagbo's last chance before the deployment of military force against him.\n\nOn 20 December, White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs told a news briefing that it was \"time for [Gbagbo] to go\" and that \"We stand ready to impose targeted sanctions, individually and in concert with our partners around the world, on President Gbagbo, on his immediate family, on those who are associated with him and those who continue to cling to power illegitimately.\" On 21 December, the United States Department of State announced that it had imposed travel sanctions against Gbagbo and 30 allies. William Fitzgerald, the deputy assistant secretary for African affairs, said that trade sanctions may be imposed against individuals. On 22 December, State Department spokesman Philip J. Crowley said that Ouattara's victory was irrefutable and reiterated U.S. demands that Gbagbo step down.\n\nBetween December 2010 and March 2011, there was a series of sporadic outbreaks of violence between Gbagbo's militias and security forces and Ouattara's supporters, primarily in the city of Abidjan where both sides had large numbers of supporters. On 16 December 2010, clashes between opposition supporters and security forces in Abidjan and Yamoussoukro left 44 people dead. It was alleged that mass grave of opposition supporters had been dug in a pro-Gbagbo neighborhood in Abidjan, but security forces prevented UN investigators from going to the site to check the allegations. Another mass grave was reported to exist in the village of N'Dotre, guarded by government militias.\n\nClashes between rival tribes seen as being pro-Gbagbo and pro-Ouattara killed 33 people in the central Ivorian city of Duékoué 3 January and 6 January 2011. Between 11 January and 12 January, 11 more people were killed when fighting broke out in Abidjan between security forces and Ouattara supporters, some of whom were using automatic weapons and rocket-propelled grenades, after the police attempted to conduct a raid in a pro-Ouattara district of Abidjan. The same area was the scene of further clashes on 21–22 February when police again attempted to raid it. 12 opposition supporters were killed when security forces fired machine guns and launched rocket-propelled grenades in the neighbourhood; the next day, opposition fighters ambushed government gendarmes (paramilitary police) and killed 10-15 of them.\n\nGbagbo's supporters carried out a number of attacks during March, attacking foreign businesses and UN offices in Abidjan on 1 March and killing at least six people attending a pro-Ouattara rally in the city. The northern suburb of Abobo was attacked by Gbagbo's forces on 13 March in a bid to drive out pro-Ouattara supporters, and mobs were also reported to be roaming the city looking for their opponents and attacking or killing them. The violence resulted in 10 confirmed deaths and scores more wounded. Abobo came under heavy attack on 17 March, killing 30 people, when shells were into a crowded market from a nearby military barracks. It was unclear whether Gbagbo or Outtara supporters were responsible, though Abobo is generally pro-Ouattara. On 18 March, the UN issued a statement saying that the shelling was \"an act, perpetrated against civilians, [that] could constitute a crime against humanity.\" Another 52 people were killed in continuing violence in Abidjan between 21–26 March.\n\nOpposition figure Guillaume Soro charged that Gbagbo's security forces and Liberian mercenaries had waged a campaign of terror, and that death squads had been responsible for 200 deaths, 1,000 people wounded from gunfire, 40 disappearances and 732 arrests. He told \"The Guardian\" that \"women have been beaten, stripped, assaulted and raped. When will the international community realise that a murderous insanity has begun in Ivory Coast?\" Amnesty International said it had received increasing reports of atrocities in the country. By March 2011, an estimated 450,000+ Ivorians had left the country, of which 370,000 were from the capital city of Abidjan.\n\nOn 10 March 2011, it was announced that Gbagbo had banned all French and UN aircraft from Ivorian airspace, with exceptions only if the transport ministry approved. The ban was not challenged by the UN, which continued to fly helicopters despite the order; allies of Ouattara said Gbagbo had no legal authority with which to enforce the ban.\n\nApproximately 1,800 people, including children and civil servants, have taken refuge in Abidjan's Saint Paul's Cathedral since the beginning of the crisis.\n\nBoth pro-Outtara and pro-Gbagbo forces were accused of having participated in the 28–29 March Duékoué massacre, where hundreds of civilians were killed. When asked by U.N. secretary general Ban Ki-moon, Outtara denied the accusation against his force but agreed to conduct an investigation.\n\nNumerous peaceful protests of nonviolent resistance have been organized in Ivory Coast and internationally in support of a peaceful resolution to the ongoing crisis.\n\nIn December 2010, several street protests were held in Abidjan. Hundreds of women joined the protests and banged pots as a warning about the arrival of the militias. The protesters were met with heavily armed security forces firing into the crowd and killing civilians.\n\nIn February, 2011, hundreds of youth protested in Abobo, a neighborhood of Abidjan. One man and one woman were killed by security forces who opened fire and used tear gas to disperse the crowd.\n\nOn 3 March 2011, 15,000 women held a peaceful protest in Abidjan. Some were dressed in black, some were wearing leaves, and some were naked, all signs of an African curse directed toward Laurent Gbagbo. In the neighborhood of Abobo, they were met by security forces with tanks that allegedly opened fire on the women. Seven women were killed and approximately 100 were wounded. Gbagbo's police officers always denied any involvement of their forces, and Gbagbo's supporters argue that this incident is an elaborate hoax, claiming that the available video footage can hardly match the story.\n\nOn 8 March, International Women's Day, 45,000 women held peaceful protests across the country. The women were met with youth armed with machetes and automatic weapons firing into the air at Koumassi. One woman and three men were killed in Abidjan by the army.\n\nAs the violence continued in Abidjan, heavy fighting broke out in western Côte d'Ivoire at the end of February 2011 as the newly renamed Republican Forces of Côte d'Ivoire (RFCI) sought to close the border with Liberia, from where Gbagbo was reported to have recruited numerous fighters. A series of western towns fell to the RFCI between 25 February and 21 March as it advanced beyond the ceasefire line from the previous civil war. On 28 March the RFCI launched a country-wide military offensive as Ouattara declared that all peaceful solutions had been \"exhausted\". After heavy fighting in some central Ivorian towns, the RFCI advanced rapidly across the country to seize towns along the eastern border with Ghana, the political capital Yamoussoukro and the key port of San Pédro. By 31 March the RFCI had reached Abidjan as fighting broke out in the city, with Gbagbo loyalists falling back to the area around the presidential palace. United Nations and French forces joined the fighting on 4 April with helicopter attacks on heavy weapons being used by Gbagbo's forces.\n\nElectricity and water to the northern half of the country were also cut 2 March, with no immediate explanation for either event.\n\nOn 18 December 2010, Gbagbo ordered peacekeeping forces from the United Nations and France to leave the country; the government issued a statement saying that it \" demands the departure of the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire and Operation Unicorn forces in Ivory Coast and is opposed to any renewal of their mandate.\" In January 2011, Gbagbo requested a recount of the votes, along with the creation of a committee composed of international members that would oversee the recount. He also engaged in a diplomatic campaign to gain support from countries like Zimbabwe, while at the same time expelling ambassadors from the United Kingdom and Canada, countries that did not recognize his leadership. After the election, Gbagbo initially retained control of the country's armed forces and the state media, but in part due to the international sanctions which limited Gbagbo's financing abilities, this control gradually crumbled and the offensive by Ouattara forces caused much of Gbagbo's armed forces to defect.\n\nOuattara was at the first floor of the Golf Hotel in Abidjan while Gbagbo remained at the presidential palace. The hotel was guarded by about 800 UN peacekeepers, who had encircled the site with coiled razor wire and guarded the premises with white UN armored personnel carriers and security checks for visitors.\n\nAccording to local UN mission chief Choi Young-jin, troops loyal to Gbagbo (about 3,000 militiamen according to an Ouattara spokesman) occupied the neighborhood surrounding the Golf Hotel and set up a blockade that prevented UN trucks from bringing food, water and medicine to the hotel; UN trucks were sent each day but had been turned back every time. Ouattara had a pirate radio station inside the hotel that broadcast campaign songs, speeches from Ouattara, and statements by his spokesman. However, technicians working for Gbagbo had jammed the signal and so as to change frequencies several times a day.\n\nDuring early March 2011, Ouattara traveled to Ethiopia to meet with an African Union (AU) council tasked with finding a solution to the conflict. Gbagbo refused to attend the meeting, which resulted in the AU confirming Ouattara as the victor in the elections. It was the first time he had left the Golf Hotel since the election was held.\n\nReporters Without Borders observed that public media had been neutral in its coverage of the candidates, but it also noted that Gbagbo's campaign had received a substantially larger amount of coverage. Reporters have been threatened by armed forces sympathetic to Gbagbo.\nInternational radio stations, including France 24, BBC and RFI, were stopped from broadcasting on 2 March.\n\nThe West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA) recognises Ouattara as the winner of the 2010 election. The bank of issue of UEMOA is the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO)). The governor of BCEAO, Philippe-Henry Dacoury-Tabley, seen as an ally of Gbagbo, was forced to resign by West African leaders on 21 January 2011.\n\nOuttara said that the continuing crisis hurts the economy. As a declining economy threatens the status of Côte d'Ivoire, as the largest producer of cocoa in the world, a revival hinged on the outcome of the election.\n\nThe internationally traded price for cocoa and white sugar fell in the week prior to the election on speculation that the election would spur production.\n\nOn 24 January 2011, the cocoa price soared following Ouattara's announcement that coffee and cocoa exports would be banned for a month in hope to cut off the funding for Gbagbo.\n\nIvory Coast was also forced to default on a $2.3 billion bond as a result of the crisis.\n\nOn 9 February 2011 onwards the Abidjan stock exchange remained closed after Gbagbo's loyalist forces invaded its offices. The following day it reopened. The regional stock exchange Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres moved \"temporarily\" to Bamako, Mali after Gbagbo's troops attacked its office in Abidjan.\n\nDuring the week from 14 to 18 February, four banks had suspended their operations, and Gbagbo in response nationalized them on 17 February. Most of the cash machines in Abidjan had been empty or out of service and people rushed to the banks to withdraw their cash.\n\nReports suggested a cash crisis in the country due to a lack of capital inflows and runs on banks forcing national financial institutions to also deplete their reserves. Several banks ceased operations in the country. The move led to Gbagbo loyalist forces to have \"nationalised\" those banks and \"requisitioned\" cash from the Central Bank's Abidjan bureau. The opposition said these actions amounted to robbery.\n\nOn 23 March, at the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Summit in Nigeria, a \"One Thousand Women March\" was organised by peace activists in West Africa in support of the women in the Ivory Coast. They wore white T-shirts and represented countries across West Africa including Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and Togo.\n\nOn 6 April, in Canada outside the French consulate in Montreal, demonstrators protested against France's military intervention in Ivory Coast and asked for humanitarian corridors to be opened in Abidjan.\n\nOn 8 April, in Ireland outside the French embassy in Dublin, demonstrators protested against the international community's \"military invasion\" of Ivory Coast.\n\nHuman rights remained as an issue. In May 2011, Amnesty International reported that both pro-Gbagbo and pro-Ouattara sides had committed war crimes and crimes against humanity in the conflict. On 20 July 2011, Ouattara inaugurated a commission to investigate the violation of human rights during the conflict.\n\nReporters Without Borders asked for the release of a detained pro-Gbagbo journalist. The personnel director of the company that published Le Temps, a newspaper close to FPI, was briefly arrested on 24 May 2011 and then released in the same day. The Republican Forces of Côte d'Ivoire occupied the seat of Notre Voie, a newspaper close to FPI, from April to the beginning of September.\n\nAccording to Human Right Watch, the violence still persisted. Pro-Gbagbo militias had killed at least 220 people during the days immediately before or after the arrest of Gbagbo. In June 2011, it was reported that at least 149 actual or suspected pro-Gbagbo partisans had been killed by the force of Ouattara since April. In August, similar events committed by the force of Ouattara were reported again by the media. A summary of a press conference of UNOCI in August reported several confrontations between FRCI and youths in Ores-Krobou, Abadjin-Kouté, Abadjin-Doumé, Akoupé-Zeudji, and Biéby.\n\nAt the night between 24–25 April 2012, Sakré, a village in the Southwest near Liberia was attacked by an armed group equipped with heavy weapons including rockets, leaving 8 deaths.\n\nOn 1 June 2011, Guillaume Soro formed a new government. No one in the cabinet came from the pro-Gbagbo camp. Guillaume Soro is the prime minister and minister of defence. The mandate of Choi Young-ji ended on 31 August, and Albert Gerard Koenders became the new UN Special Representative for Côte d'Ivoire on 1 September.\n\nOn 28 September, Commission dialogue, vérité et réconciliation (CDVR) (English: Dialogue, Truth, and Reconciliation Commission) was inaugurated in Yamoussoukro. It is an 11-member commission headed by former Prime Minister Charles Konan Banny. The commission includes religious leaders, regional representatives, and Chelsea footballer Didier Drogba to speak for Ivorians living abroad. It is modelled after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of South Africa. However, Konan Banny expressed that the commission would not have amnesty powers nor powers to absolve anyone.\n\nA legislative election was announced in September and held on 11 December. It was the first legislative election since 2000, due to the crisis in 2002. Ouattara hoped that new legislators could be elected before the major development projects announced in the presidential campaign start. The election was boycotted by FPI, Gbagbo's party, and was won by the parties of Ouattara and his allies. The atmosphere of the election was calm, but the turnout was low.\n\nOn 27 June 2011, UN lifted the last sanctions against Ivorian enterprises, including Radiodiffusion télévision ivoirienne (RTI), Association des producteurs de caoutchouc naturel de Côte d'Ivoire (APROCANCI), and Société de gestion du patrimoine de l'électricité (SOGEPE). On 8 July 2011, IMF resumed the aid to Côte d'Ivoire. On 25 October, the United States announced that Côte d'Ivoire, excluded since 2005, was again eligible for the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA), which gives trade preferences to eligible countries.\n\nOn 3 August 2012, the first commercial court of Côte d'Ivoire was set up in Abidjan, with the aim of encouraging the investment and the economical development.\n\nOn 3 August 2011, Ouattara promoted several important and controversial ex-chiefs in the New Forces who were said to have brought Ouattara to his position. Among those promoted was Martin Fofié Kouakou, appointed as the new commandant of Korhogo, who had been accused of being involved in extrajuricial executions by UN.\n\nGbagbo was arrested on 11 April. From April to August, he and his wife, Simone, were under house arrest in separate locations in northern parts of the country. Gbagbo was sent to Korhogo and Simone to Odienné. Gbagbo and his wife were charged with economic crimes in August. The charges included looting, armed robbery and embezzlement. The government, citing its incompetence, has requested the involvement of the International Criminal Court (ICC) in the investigation of violence related crimes.\n\nOn 3 October, the judges of ICC authorized its prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo to probe post-election war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by forces loyal to both Gbagbo and Ouattara. With an arrest warrant issued on 23 November and made known to the public on 29 November, Gbagbo was sent from Côte d'Ivoire on 29 November and arrived in a prison in Scheveningen, a suburb of the Hague, on 30 November.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48288668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48288668", "title": "475 (film)", "text": "475 (film)\n\n475 is a 2013 documentary Moroccan film by director Nadir Bouhmouch. The film explores sexual violence and women's rights in Morocco through the Amina Filali affair, a young girl who committed suicide after being forced to marry her rapist in 2012.\n\nIn March 2012, Amina Filali, a 16-year-old Moroccan girl, committed suicide by swallowing rat poison in a small village outside of Larache. Her suicide came a year after she was forced to marry a man who had raped her. According to Article 475 of the Moroccan penal code, a rapist can escape a jail sentence if he marries his victim. Authorities in Morocco failed to properly investigate Filali's death. Amina's death dominated the Moroccan and international media. Through this horrifying affair, interviews with Filali's parents, her rapist's father, a lawyer and other members of Moroccan civil society, the film delves into the various facets of patriarchy in Morocco while questioning the way it was portrayed by the mainstream media.\n\nLike Bouhmouch's first film \"My Makhzen and Me\", \"475\" was produced clandestinely with no shooting permits in what director Nadir Bouhmouch calls \"an act of civil disobedience\" against Morocco's state film institution, the Centre Cinematographique Marocain (CCM); and what they perceive as restrictive film laws and censorship. The crew was reduced to a small team of volunteers who had little or no experience in filmmaking. Instead of asking for state funding from the CCM, the filmmakers resorted to a crowd-funding campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "4751938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4751938", "title": "A New Partnership Between the Indigenous Peoples and the Government of Taiwan", "text": "A New Partnership Between the Indigenous Peoples and the Government of Taiwan\n\nA New Partnership Between the Indigenous Peoples and the Government of Taiwan () is a treaty-like document signed in Orchid Island, Taiwan on 10 September 1999 by the representatives of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan and the then-presidential candidate Chen Shui-bian (who went on to win the 2000 presidential election for the Democratic Progressive Party).\n\nThe seven articles in the documents includes:\n\nThe document later became the official indigenous policy for the DPP Government. However, as the document was signed before Shui-bian Chen became the President, the efficacy of the document has been contested. \n\nOn 2002-10-19, Chen, as the head of state and government, reaffirmed the new partnership between indigenous nations and the Government of Taiwan in a ceremony with indigenous tribal representatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "39629715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39629715", "title": "Atterbury Plot", "text": "Atterbury Plot\n\nThe Atterbury Plot was a conspiracy led by Francis Atterbury, Bishop of Rochester and Dean of Westminster, aimed at the restoration of the House of Stuart to the throne of Great Britain. It came some years after the unsuccessful Jacobite Rising of 1715, at a time when the Whig government of the new Hanoverian king was deeply unpopular.\n\nApart from Atterbury, other conspirators included Charles Boyle, 4th Earl of Orrery, Lord North and Grey, Sir Henry Goring, Christopher Layer, John Plunkett, and George Kelly.\n\nThe Plot was later considered the greatest threat to the Hanoverians between the Jacobite risings of 1715 and 1745. It collapsed in 1722, when some of the conspirators were charged with treason. However, evidence was in short supply, and Atterbury himself escaped with removal from his Church of England positions and exile.\n\nAtterbury was a Tory and a leader of the High Church party in the Church of England. In 1710, the prosecution of Henry Sacheverell led to an explosion of High Church fanaticism, and Atterbury helped Sacheverell with his defence, then became an active pamphleteer against the Whig ministry. When the ministry changed, rewards came to him. Queen Anne chose him as her chief adviser in church matters, and in August 1711 she appointed him Dean of Christ Church, Oxford, a strongly Tory college. In 1713 he was promoted to become Bishop of Rochester and Dean of Westminster Abbey, and if the Tories had remained in power he might have risen much higher, so he dreaded the Hanoverian accession planned by the Act of Settlement of 1701. The death of Queen Anne in 1714 was a setback for him. He took the oath of allegiance to George I, but he became an opponent of the new government. He was in indirect communication with the family of the Pretender, and when the Jacobite Rising of 1715 appeared, he refused to sign a declaration in which other bishops attached themselves to the Protestant accession. In 1717 hundreds of Jacobites arrested at the time of the Rising were released from prison by the Act of Grace and Pardon, and Atterbury began to correspond directly with James Francis Edward Stuart. He was later accused of plotting a coup d'état which involved the capture of the Hanoverian royal family and the proclamation of the Pretender as James III.\n\nEvents of 1720, notably the Bubble Act and the collapse of the South Sea Company, left the pro-Hanoverian Whig government in disarray and deeply unpopular with the many ruling class investors who had lost heavily. Atterbury seized the moment to conspire with the exiled John Erskine, 22nd Earl of Mar, who at the Jacobite court was Duke of Mar, who had been the Pretender's Secretary of State.\n\nThe aim of the conspirators was a new Jacobite rising, to coincide with the general election expected in 1722, this date being foreseen because by the Septennial Act of 1716 parliament was enabled to sit for seven years after the election of 1715.\n\nSir Henry Goring, who was himself standing (unsuccessfully as turned out) in the election as MP for his old seat of Steyning in Sussex, wrote to the Pretender on 20 March 1721 a letter in which he put forward a plan for a restoration of the Stuart monarchy with the assistance of an invasion by Irish exile troops commanded by the Duke of Ormonde from Spain and Lieutenant-General Dillon from France.\n\nChristopher Layer, a barrister of the Middle Temple and an agent and legal advisor to the \"notorious Jacobite\" Lord North and Grey, met some fellow plotters regularly at an inn in Stratford-le-Bow, and by the summer of 1721 had succeeded in recruiting some soldiers at Romford and Leytonstone. He then travelled to Rome, where he met the Pretender to reveal the details of a plot. Layer stated that he represented a large number of influential Jacobites, who proposed to recruit old soldiers to seize the Tower of London, the Bank of England, the Royal Mint, and other government buildings in Westminster and the City of London, to capture the Hanoverian royal family, and to kill other key men. English Tories were to summon their men, secure their counties, and march on London, while volunteers from the Irish Brigade of the French Army were to land in England to join them. Layer returned to London with assurances of royal favour from the Pretender.\n\nThe plot collapsed in England in the spring of 1722, at the time of the death of Charles Spencer, 3rd Earl of Sunderland, who a year before had been forced to resign as First Lord of the Treasury. He died on 19 April, when the Duke of Orleans, Regent of France, made it known to Carteret, Robert Walpole's Secretary of State for the Southern Department, that the Jacobites had asked him to send three thousand men in support of a coup d'état to take place early in May. The French said they had refused permission for the Duke of Ormonde to march a force across France to a channel port and they had also moved their Irish Brigade away from Dunkirk. Sunderland's papers were seized, and a letter of thanks addressed to him by the Pretender came to light.\n\nIn England, insufficient money had been collected by the Jacobites to provide enough arms to support a rising, leading Mar (writing in March 1722) to comment on hearing this that Goring, \"though a honest, stout, man, had not showed himself very fit for things of this kind.\"\n\nWalpole's agents began the search for evidence against the leading suspects of Jacobitism, but they found little. Despite this, Walpole gave orders for several men to be arrested: Arran, Strafford, Orrery, North and Grey, Goring, Atterbury, the Duke of Mar's agent George Kelly, and Christopher Layer. Atterbury, who had long been an opponent of Walpole, was named as a conspirator by Mar and was arrested on 24 August 1722, to be charged with treason. He and Orrery were imprisoned in the Tower of London. On 17 October the Habeas Corpus Act was suspended. \n\nGoring, meanwhile, avoided arrest and had fled the country on 23 August; he remained in France until his death in 1731. In his absence, at a trial where he was considered one of the major managers of the plot, his agent stated Goring had attempted to enlist a gang of one thousand brandy smugglers to assist the projected invasion. This led to some government action against such smuggling.\n\nLayer was arrested and lodged with Atterbury in the Tower, his clerks were placed under surveillance, and his wife was arrested and brought to London from Dover. He was less fortunate than most of the others arrested, as two women agreed to give evidence against him. His case was first heard at the Court of King's Bench on 31 October 1722, and a trial began on 21 November before the Lord Chief Justice, John Pratt. Among compromising papers found in the possession of Elizabeth Mason, a brothel-keeper, was one entitled \"Scheme\", said to be in Layer's hand, which outlined a proposed insurrection. The Court was interested to have evidence that the Pretender and his wife had acted as godparents to Layer's daughter, when they were represented at a christening in Chelsea by the proxies Lord North and Grey and the Duchess of Ormonde. After a trial lasting eighteen hours, the jury unanimously found Layer guilty of high treason. On 27 November 1722, he was sentenced to be hanged, drawn, and quartered, but execution was several times delayed, in the hope of his giving information against others, which he refused to do. He was eventually executed at Tyburn on 17 May 1723.\n\nAtterbury's correspondence with the Jacobites in exile which could be found proved to have been so cautious that it was not judged to be enough to lead to his conviction. He was therefore the target of a Pains and Penalties Bill, with the aim of removing him from his church positions, banishing him for life, and forbidding British subjects to communicate with him, by the decision of parliament rather than through prosecution in a court. The evidence offered to parliament consisted chiefly of a spaniel named Harlequin, a present from the Pretender, and some letters found in a lavatory, leading to suspicions that Atterbury was the victim of a Whig conspiracy. However, in May 1723 the Pains and Penalties Bill aimed at him was approved by the Commons and by the Lords, where the voting was eighty-three votes for and forty-three against, being finally enacted on 15 May, two days before the execution of Layer. On 18 June, Atterbury went into exile in France. Orrery remained in the Tower for six months, after which he was given bail. There was insufficient evidence to proceed against him.\n\nAmong the other conspirators, John Plunkett and George Kelly were also arrested and were punished by being deprived of their estates. Lord North and Grey was known to be involved, but those who could have implicated him refused to do so.\n\nIn January 1723, a secret parliamentary committee was established to investigate the Plot, and this reported in March of the same year. The Papists Act 1722 required landowners to take oaths of allegiance by Christmas Day, 1723; those who would not do so were obliged to register their estates and risked forfeiting them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "291486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291486", "title": "Audience (meeting)", "text": "Audience (meeting)\n\nAn audience is a formal meeting that takes place between a head of state and another person at the invitation of the head of state. Often, the invitation follows a request for a meeting from the other person. Though sometimes used in republics to describe meetings with presidents, the term is more usually associated with monarchs and popes.\n\nIn the past, rigid dress codes had to be followed by those granted a papal audience. Although no longer mandatory, the traditional dress code was quite strict. For a general audience, smart business professional attire (i.e. a suit and tie or equivalent for ladies) was acceptable. The suit was to be dark, and ladies would ideally not wear slacks anywhere in the Vatican. Private audiences, however, were a much more formal affair. Ladies were to wear a long (well below the knees), black dress, with a matching hat or other head covering and veil. Exceptions were made for Catholic queens who by dispensation could wear white (privilège du blanc). Gentlemen were to wear a correct morning suit, either black or very dark gray with the traditional striped trousers, patent leather shoes, and cutaway. An ascot or equivalent formal tie would be worn with a gray waistcoat over a white dress shirt with arrow collars. If any part of the audience was to occur outdoors a black top hat would be worn. If the function was entirely indoors then the hat was optional for men. Both gentlemen and ladies were to wear dress gloves. Evening functions were usually white tie.\n\nFormal dress is now normally reserved for diplomatic audiences. In the 1990s, a Roman Catholic priest in Ireland provoked a controversy by claiming that then-President of Ireland, Mary Robinson, had breached protocol by wearing jewellery and by not wearing black nor a mantilla for an audience with Pope John Paul II. The Vatican subsequently pointed out that the traditional form of dress worn for papal audiences was no longer obligatory.\n\nModern popes grant large audiences to crowds in St. Peter's Square or the Paul VI Audience Hall.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, audiences with the British monarch are usually listed in the Court Circular, which is published daily by the broadsheet press. The British Prime Minister has a weekly audience with Elizabeth II, usually every Wednesday, during parliamentary time at Buckingham Palace.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Denmark, public audiences with the Queen usually take place every other Monday at Christiansborg Palace. An invitation is not required for the public audiences. Private audiences of the Queen with heads of state, heads of government, parliamentary delegations, leaders of international organisations and military leaders are usually held at the residence palace of the Monarch at Amalienborg Palace.\n"}
{"id": "46961464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46961464", "title": "California Policy Center", "text": "California Policy Center\n\nThe California Policy Center (CPC) is a public policy think tank located in California. The organization is active in pension reform and education reform efforts. \n"}
{"id": "3221815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3221815", "title": "Campus Antiwar Network", "text": "Campus Antiwar Network\n\nCampus Antiwar Network (CAN) is an American independent grassroots network of students opposing the occupation of Iraq and military recruiters in US schools. It was founded prior to the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and claims to be the largest campus-based antiwar organization in the United States.\n\nThe Campus Antiwar Network was created on January 17, 2003 by delegates from over 70 colleges and universities at twin conferences at George Washington University and San Francisco State University. Its purpose was opposition to the planned invasion of Iraq.\n\nBecause it is decentralized, CAN's size and impact do not necessarily correlate with its national events and organizations, but the group's history can be tracked roughly by its national conventions.\n\n\"Chicago, Illinois—February 22–23, 2003\"\n\nCAN's first national conference occurred very soon after its formation, the weekend of February 22–23, in Chicago, and formalized the organization's structure and politics. The 2003 convention occurred during a period of rapid growth of the antiwar movement, just prior to the invasion of Iraq and soon after the February 15, 2003 anti-war protest, the largest in world history. The convention was attended by more than 350 delegates from approximately 100 campus groups.\n\nAt its 2003 convention, CAN adopted a structure under the principle that it be student owned and operated. The specific directives were:\n\nCAN will remain independent, and is not affiliated with any other organization, though it pledges to work with all forces in the antiwar movement; it is democratic, so that each member campus can elect delegates through their local antiwar student coalitions and each affiliated campus group has an equal voice within CAN; CAN accepts affiliation from every campus or school antiwar organization and respects the right of its member committees to organize independent antiwar actions locally.\n\nCAN adopted its first four Points of Unity: \n\nCAN also decided to call for an April 5 national mobilization in a few major cities following on the heels of the student-labor week of action already being organized from March 31 to April 4.\n\n\"Chicago, Illinois—November 1–2, 2003\"\n\nThe U.S. antiwar movement lost momentum with the failure of mass protests to prevent the invasion, and the Campus Antiwar Network was affected by the trend. CAN's second convention, on November 1–2, 2003, was attended by approximately 100 members, from 34 different campuses around the country.\n\nThe primary goals of the activists were to discuss the past six months of work since CAN's creation in January, and to organize future goals as well as further codifying the Points of Unity. An important national action taken from this conference was the resurrection of the \"black armband\" as a symbol of antiwar unity; a throwback from the Vietnam War.\n\nThe Points of Unity were expanded into the following:\n\n\"New York City, New York—November 13–14, 2004\"\n\nOver 100 delegates from 30 schools were in attendance at \"Stop the War in 2004,\" which was focused around recovering from the recent presidential election and the re-election of George W. Bush. The main speaker at the event was Mike Hoffman, co-founder of the Iraq Veterans Against the War, who spoke about the Iraqi response to the occupation.\n\nCAN decided to increase positive interaction and support with military groups opposing the occupation of Iraq, as well as to organize demonstrations \"against George Bush's inauguration.\"\n\nAlthough all other Points were proposed to stand as created, the national conference revised the Point of Unity on the Israeli–Palestinian conflict:\n\nWe stand opposed to the oppression of the Palestinian people and the occupation of Palestinian land, and support the right of Palestinians to self-determination.\n\n\"Berkeley, California—October 22–23, 2005\"\n\nWith falling approval ratings for President George W. Bush and the war, the growth of the counter-recruitment movement, and Cindy Sheehan's rise to national prominence, CAN grew significantly over the course of 2005. Its fourth national conference, held October 22–23, 2005, at UC Berkeley, drew over 650 participants, with delegates from 37 schools present to vote on the second, organizational, day.\n\nThe conference, jointly sponsored by the Campus Antiwar Network and Military Out of Our Schools-Bay Area, sought to deepen the growing counter-recruitment movement among students. It decided on several nationally coordinated events for the upcoming year: a day of action in protest of the Solomon Amendment requiring universities to allow military recruitment on December 6 of that year; a week of action marking the anniversary of the war in Iraq, with student actions planned on campuses and general, off-campus actions on the weekend of March 18–19, 2006; and a day of action on May 4, 2006, the anniversary of the killing of four students at Kent State by National Guardsmen during a protest against the Vietnam War, as well as a memorial for the lesser-known shooting of two Jackson State students on May 14. CAN's call for the student week of action was endorsed by many individuals and organizations including Cindy Sheehan, Howard Zinn, and the Progressive Democrats of America.\n\nCAN's Points of Unity and national structure were unchanged.\n\n\"Madison, Wisconsin—October 19–21, 2007\"\nThe surge in the antiwar movement in late 2005 did not last through 2006, and over the course of that year the Campus Antiwar Network lost much of its national organization, rebuilding only in the spring of 2007. After a one-year hiatus without a national conference, CAN reconvened over the weekend of October 19–21, 2007, to discuss its Points of Unity and to solidify membership. Over 30 chapters sent representatives, with an estimated 200 activists (both delegates and guests) attending. The main event was speaker Camilo Mejía, who talked about his time in Iraq and his gradual realization of his antiwar feelings. Mejía and Liam Madden, both members of the Iraq Veterans Against the War, were in attendance throughout the conference.\n\nCAN revised its Points of Unity into the following Unity Statement:\nThe Campus Antiwar Network stands for the immediate withdrawal from Iraq of all occupation troops and private contractors. CAN is committed to building a movement based on grassroots, democratic and independent organizing that actively opposes all forms of racism, Islamophobia, sexism and homophobia.\n\nThe Campus Antiwar Network is a network of largely independent affiliates which choose their own day-to-day goals and tactics. CAN brings them together, usually only by email and conference call, to share the lessons of experience, discuss and decide on a view of the present needs of the peace movement, assist each other in defending against threatened disciplinary action or prosecution, and plan coordinated actions on both national and regional levels. Major decisions regarding structure and points of unity are made at CAN's yearly national conference, attended by 2 delegates with voting rights from each chapter, as well as an unlimited number of guests.\n\nThe organization also has a coordinating committee, elected at each national conference. As of the nation conference in 2007, the national committee has been restructured from previous forms to have five regional representatives and four at-large representatives, with decisions made by majority rule. In the past, the committee has had one representative from each of five regions, five at-large representatives, and two high school representatives.\n\nIndividual CAN affiliates organize as they choose, although each is asked to select two members to give their contact information to the national coordinating committee. The coordinating committee is responsible for coordinating actions voted on at the national conference.\n\nCAN's only formal political consensus stems from its Points of Unity, or Unity Statement, selected at the national conference. CAN periodically updates its Points of Unity based on the current state of the war and antiwar movement.\n\nCAN is first and foremost a group opposed to the war in Iraq. However, besides calling for immediate withdrawal of all U.S. troops from Iraq, Points of Unity have included opposition to the war in Afghanistan, opposition to Israel's occupation of Palestine, and other views. Although some opinions are more controversial than others, CAN strives to reflect the viewpoints of its democratic and varying membership. CAN affiliates are involved in actions around these issues to varying degrees, and individual members may or may not agree with all points; CAN chapters are welcome to choose their own political positions and affiliations beyond the Points of Unity that all chapters follow.\n\nThroughout its history, CAN has focused on grassroots organizing, and put opposition to US military recruitment and building relationships with antiwar U.S. veterans and soldiers at the center of its strategy to end the war. CAN does not take official positions on elections of any kind, believing that such choices should be based on individual preferences. However, CAN actively encourages members and chapters to become as informed on elections as possible, and local chapters often incorporate political discussions into their own meetings.\n\nAfter Hurricane Katrina, by decision of its coordinating committee, CAN adopted the slogan \"Relief Not War!\" for the September 25, 2005 protest in Washington, DC. This issue was connected to the war, for CAN members, by the repressive military nature of the relief efforts as well as by the diversion of resources abroad. In February 2006, CAN issued a statement on the Danish cartoons controversy, condemning \"racism in any form, as recently displayed in the publication of a series of anti-Islamic cartoons,\" which it argued \"are helping to promulgate state violence against Muslims and Arabs -- including the occupation of Iraq.\" The statement also attacked the Dubai Ports World controversy, describing widespread bipartisan opposition to allowing a company from the United Arab Emirates to take ownership of some U.S. port operations as \"blatantly racist.\" Anti-racism points of unity were integrated into the Unity Statement in 2007.\n\nHistorically, the Campus Antiwar Network has used a variety of tactics:\n\n\nCampus Antiwar Network chapters have long used local walkouts as a tactic to demonstrate against the militarization of campus and collusion with war related activities while galvanizing public opinion on campus, unifying CAN groups with other progressive groups, and recruiting new members. The network is able to utilize the internet and conference calls to rapidly create walk outs, although most of the largest walkouts are on specific anniversaries or important dates.\n\nSeveral walkouts occurred immediately after the US invasion of Iraq including a large one at San Francisco State University. In 2005, a walkout took place at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. Over 100 students left class, demonstrated, and then marched past the Army Recruitment Center at University Square.\n\nIn 2007, large walkouts occurred as a result of the efforts of CAN groups. On February 15, the fourth anniversary of the largest antiwar demonstrations in history, walkouts occurred at 17 different schools including Columbia University. The Columbia walkout achieved campus-wide support including a petition signed by forty professors and an endorsement by three campus unions. Three hundred students participated in the antiwar activities that followed.\n\nOn March 20, 2007, the fourth anniversary of the invasion of Iraq, nearly 80 schools answered calls from Campus Antiwar Network and Students for a Democratic Society to walk out of class in protest of the war. Hundreds of students from schools across the country walked out against the war and demonstrated in highly visible locations. At Rutgers University in New Brunswick New Jersey, 400 students walked out of class, blocked a marine recruiting station, and took over an interstate highway.\n\nCAN views walkouts as a good way to get students involved with the antiwar movement for the first time. As many students fight against the apathy that is the generalization of their generation, viewing fellow collegiates in action is important to continue growing the movement.\n\nA number of people involved with the Campus Antiwar Network have faced legal or disciplinary consequences of various kinds for their antiwar activism. These people have been the centers of nationwide defense campaigns on the part of CAN, which argues that their cases prove the threat counter-recruitment poses to the powers that be.\n\n\nOn April 5, 2005, Santa Cruz students and members of the Campus Antiwar Network led a major demonstration on the campus of UC Santa Cruz. According to the San Francisco Chronicle, \"about a dozen protesters entered a career fair in a campus building and surrounded a table where military recruiters sat, preventing other students from talking with them. [And] more than 300 people demonstrated outside. In the jostling that ensued, a career- center staffer was slightly injured.\" The protest had significant results, according to Kristin Anderson, a member of the Campus Antiwar Network. She believes that counter recruitment \"has gotten popular because it gives students something concrete they can do\" and students are able to make connections if they see their classmates being tempted by recruiters. UC Santa Cruz antiwar group, \"Members of Students Against War\" rallied outside of the \"San Francisco's Civic Center\" wearing T-shirts reading, \"Credible Threat.\" This was done to mock the \"Pentagon spymasters' assessment of the group's activities.\"\n\n\nMost photos are from the Traprock Peace Center website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55832489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55832489", "title": "Candace Owens", "text": "Candace Owens\n\nCandace Owens (born April 29, 1989) is an American conservative commentator and political activist. She is known for her pro-Trump stance and her criticism of Black Lives Matter and of the Democratic Party. She is the Director of Communications at the conservative advocacy group Turning Point USA.\n\nShe is African-American and grew up in Stamford, Connecticut, Owens is a graduate of Stamford High School. She was raised by her grandparents after her parents divorced.\n\nIn 2007, while a senior in high school, Owens received threatening racist phone calls that were traced to a car in which the 14-year-old son of then mayor Dannel Malloy was present. Owens' family sued the Stamford Board of Education in federal court alleging that the city did not protect her rights, resulting in a $37,500 settlement.\n\nOwens was pursuing an undergraduate degree in journalism at the University of Rhode Island but left school after her junior year. Afterwards, she worked for \"Vogue\" magazine. In 2012, she took a job as an administrative assistant for a private equity firm.\n\nOwens launched SocialAutopsy.com in 2016, a website she said would expose bullies on the Internet by tracking their digital footprint. The proposed site would have solicited users to take screenshots of offensive posts and send them to the website, where they would be categorized by the user's name. She used crowdfunding on Kickstarter for the website. The proposal was immediately controversial, drawing criticism that she was de-anonymizing (doxing) Internet users and violating their privacy. According to \"The Daily Dot\", \"People from all sides of the anti-harassment debate were quick to criticize the database, calling it a public-shaming list that would encourage doxing and retaliatory harassment.\" Both conservatives and progressives involved in the Gamergate controversy condemned the website.\n\nIn response, people began posting Owens' private details online. Owens blamed, without evidence, the doxing on progressives involved in the Gamergate controversy. After this, she earned the support of conservatives involved in the Gamergate controversy, including right-wing political commentators and Trump supporters Milo Yiannopoulos and Mike Cernovich. After this, Owens became a conservative, saying in 2017, \"I became a conservative overnight ... I realized that liberals were actually the racists. Liberals were actually the trolls ... Social Autopsy is why I'm conservative\".\n\nKickstarter suspended funding for Social Autopsy, and the website was never created.\n\nIn 2015, Owens founded the website Degree180. The website frequently posted anti-conservative and anti-Trump content, including mockery of his penis size. In a 2015 column that Owens wrote for the site she criticized conservative Republicans, writing about the \"bat-shit-crazy antics of the Republican Tea Party\", adding, \"The good news is, they will eventually die off (peacefully in their sleep, we hope), and then we can get right on with the OBVIOUS social change that needs to happen, IMMEDIATELY.\" When \"Buzzfeed News\" in May 2018 reported on the anti-Trump content on Degree180, Owens described the Buzzfeed reporter as a \"despicable creature\" and alleged that Buzzfeed had threatened the former writers of Degree180 (an allegation that Buzzfeed denied).\n\nBy 2017, Owens had become prominent in conservative circles for her pro-Trump commentary and for criticizing liberal rhetoric regarding structural racism, systemic inequality, and identity politics. In 2017, she began posting politically themed videos to YouTube. She launched Red Pill Black, a website and YouTube channel that promotes black conservatism in the United States. \n\nOn November 21, 2017, at the MAGA Rally and Expo in Rockford, Illinois, Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk announced her appointment as the organization's director of urban engagement. Turning Point's hiring of Owens occurred in the wake of allegations of racism at Turning Point.\n\nIn April 2018, Kanye West tweeted \"I love the way Candace Owens thinks.\" The tweet was met with derision among some of West's fans. In May 2018, President Donald Trump stated that Owens \"is having a big impact on politics in our Country. She represents an ever expanding group of very smart 'thinkers,' and it is wonderful to watch and hear the dialogue going on...so good for our Country!\"\n\nOwens has appeared on fringe conspiracy websites, such as InfoWars. In 2018, she guest hosted on Fox News. After finding mainstream success, Owens distanced herself from the far-right conspiracy websites, although she refused to criticize them.\n\nIn May 2018, Owens suggested that \"something bio-chemically happens\" to women who do not marry or have children, and she linked to the Twitter handles of Sarah Silverman, Chelsea Handler and Kathy Griffin, saying that they were \"evidentiary support\" of this theory. Silverman responded, saying \"It seems to me that by tweeting this, you would like to maybe make us feel badly. I'd say this is evidenced by ur effort to use our twitter handles so we would see. My heart breaks for you, Candy. I hope you find happiness in whatever form that takes.\" Owens responded, accusing Silverman of supporting terrorists and crime gangs.\n\n\"The Guardian\" has described Owens as \"ultra-conservative\", and \"New York\" magazine and the \"Columbia Journalism Review\" have described her as \"right-wing\". \"The Daily Beast\" has called her views \"far-right\" and the \"Pacific Standard\" called her a member of the \"alt-right\", though she has rejected both terms.\n\nIn 2017, Owens began describing herself as a conservative Trump supporter.\n\nOwens has since characterized Trump as the \"savior\" of Western civilization. She has argued that Trump has neither engaged in rhetoric that is harmful to African Americans nor proposed policies that would harm African Americans.\n\nOwens is known for her criticism of Black Lives Matter. She has described Black Lives Matter protesters as \"a bunch of whiny toddlers, pretending to be oppressed for attention.\" Owens has argued that African Americans have a \"victim mentality\" and often refers to the Democratic Party as a \"plantation\". She has argued that the American left \"like black people to be government-dependent\". Owens has argued that black people have been brainwashed to vote for Democrats. She has argued that police violence against black people is not about racism. According to \"The Guardian\" and \"The Daily Beast\", Owens has referred to police killings of black people as a trivial matter to African Americans. She has characterized abortion as a tool for \"the extermination' of black babies.\"\n\nAfter the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, Owens said that concern over rising white nationalism was “stupid”.\n\nOwens rejects the scientific consensus on climate change. She has called climate change a lie used to \"extract dollars from Americans.\"\n\nOwens described the Me Too movement – which is an international movement against sexual harassment and assault – as \"stupid\" and said that she \"hated\" the movement. Owens wrote that it was premised on the idea that \"women are stupid, weak & inconsequential.\" She has repeatedly criticized feminism.\n\nIn August 2018, Owens had a dispute with a cousin of Mollie Tibbetts. Mollie was murdered, allegedly by Cristhian Bahena Rivera, an illegal alien working under a false name who was arrested and charged with Mollie's murder and who subsequently led investigators of the Poweshiek County Sheriff's Office to Mollie's body. Tibbetts' cousin criticized Owens saying she exploited Tibbetts' death and used Tibbetts' death as \"political propaganda.\" Owens responded, describing the cousin's criticism as a \"strange\" attack on Trump supporters. After the dispute, a local chapter of Turning Point USA criticized Owens for \"public harassment\" towards a member of Tibbetts' family.\n\nIn October 2018, during the bombing attempts targeting prominent Democrats, Owens promoted the conspiracy theory that the bomb mailings were sent by leftists. After authorities arrested a 56-year-old suspect who is a registered Republican and Trump supporter on October 26, Owens deleted her comments without explanation.\n\nIn October 2018, Owens launched the Blexit movement, a campaign to encourage African Americans to abandon the Democratic Party and register as Republicans. The term Blexit—a portmanteau of “black\" and \"exit”—mimics Brexit, the word used to describe the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union. On the launch, Owens said that her \"dear friend and fellow superhero Kanye West\" designed merchandise for the movement, but the following day, West denied being the designer and disavowed the effort, saying \"I never wanted any association with Blexit\" and \"I've been used to spread messages I don't believe in.\" Shortly after the launch, \"The Daily Beast\" found that approximately 16 percent of the total tweets using the #blexit hashtag were from Twitter accounts associated with the promotion of Russian disinformation.\n\nOn October 31, 2018, Owens was sent a trademark infringement cease and desist letter by an attorney for Blexit, a Minneapolis-based non-profit founded in 2016 that is developing a black-led credit union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10331783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10331783", "title": "Catholic Campaign for America", "text": "Catholic Campaign for America\n\nThe Catholic Campaign for America (CCA) is a Roman Catholic activist organization founded in 1989 by Thomas V. Wykes, Jr., \"who wanted to address the moral crisis in America with a Catholic response\". \n\nIn 1991, Wykes gathered together several notable Catholic leaders in Washington, D.C., who constituted the CCA's first Board. They included William Bennett, Mary Ellen Bork, Bishop René Henry Gracida, and the now-deceased Hugh Carey (former Governor of New York). According to the \"National Catholic Register\", the CCA was initiated to \"bring a politically powerful and distinctively Catholic voice to the U.S. political scene\".\n\nWykes is also the founding president of Springtime of Faith Foundation, headquartered in Nashville, Tennessee.\n\n\"The Gospel of Jesus Christ is not a private opinion, a remote spiritual ideal, or a mere program for spiritual growth. The Gospel is the power to transform the world.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22467250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22467250", "title": "China human rights organizations", "text": "China human rights organizations\n\nThis is an incomplete list of organisations which campaign on human rights in China. \n\n\n\nRadio Free Asia\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21791783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21791783", "title": "Cornish Language Partnership", "text": "Cornish Language Partnership\n\nThe Cornish Language Partnership ( , ) is a representative body that was set up in Cornwall, England, UK in 2005 to promote and develop the use of the Cornish language. It is a public and voluntary sector partnership and consists of representatives from various Cornish language societies, Cornish cultural and economic organisations and local government in Cornwall. The organisation is part-funded by the European Union's Objective One programme, the United Kingdom government's Department for Communities and Local Government and Cornwall Council.\n\nThe Partnership is the chief regulator of the Standard Written Form of Cornish, an orthography that was published in 2008 with the intention of uniting the previous conflicting orthographies, and for use on road signs, in official documents, and in school examinations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1834782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1834782", "title": "Croatian Pure Party of Rights", "text": "Croatian Pure Party of Rights\n\nCroatian Pure Party of Rights ( or HČSP) is a far-right political party in Croatia founded in 1992. The party claims to be an ideological descendant of the identically named right-wing historical party which was active in the early 20th century and which advocated the right to self-determination for Croatia at the time when the country was part of Austria-Hungary and Kingdom of Yugoslavia.\n\nIn the Croatian parliamentary election, 2011, a coalition consisting of Croatian Party of Rights dr. Ante Starčević and Croatian Pure Party of Rights won one parliamentary seat, held by Ruža Tomašić from HSP-AS.\n\nThe original HČSP was founded in 1904 by the Kvaternik and other factions of the Croatian Party of Rights (HSP), calling on the tradition of one of the \"Frankovci\", a historical right-wing fraction movement of the Party of Rights from late 19th and early 20th century. Like most right-wing parties in Croatia, the HČSP claim a legacy descending from Ante Starčević.\n\nThe party was reconstituted in 1992.\n\nThe party supports the legacy of the Ustaša, Independent State of Croatia (NDH), and its leader Ante Pavelić. The official HČSP website features celebrations of Pavelić's 120th birthday, and the party members expressed loyalty to him by laying flowers on the grave of his parents, and attending church mass in honor of Pavelić. Luka Podrug, candidate of the HDZ-led coalition for the parliamentary elections 2015, expressed admiration for the Ustaše. He has also publicly admitted that he is \"responsible\" for Ustasha salute \"Za dom spremni\" on the monument to fallen members of the HOS in Split. At the Split cemetery on April 10, 2006, he celebrated the establishment of NDH saying that it is a \"day that every normal Croat respects and celebrates, as a day comparable to their child's birthday\"\n\nParty policy would introduce lustration to the Croatian system, and would also cease cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. The party opposes the EU and NATO membership.\n\nInternal policies would include banning abortion and not allowing same-sex marriages. Amnesty given to Serbs who participated in the rebellion, as well as the return of Serbs, would be cancelled.\n\nHČSP contested local elections in Split and Split-Dalmatia County.\n\nThe party announced that it would spend 600,000 kuna for the campaign. The youngest person competing in the 2007 elections, Kristina Posavec stated she has chosen to be on HČSP list because \"\"it is against EU, NATO and gay marriages\".\" \n\nIn one of the election debates, former party leader Josip Miljak stated that the \"profit of INA goes to Hungary, to MOL, to the Jewish capital, while we are left only with the pollution.\" After this statement, HNS's Goran Beus Richembergh and SDP's Tonino Picula left the TV studio in protest.\n\nThe Party was involved in an opposition to Zagreb Pride demonstrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2217931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2217931", "title": "Customs and Excise Department (Hong Kong)", "text": "Customs and Excise Department (Hong Kong)\n\nThe Customs and Excise Department (C&ED) is a government agency responsible for the protection of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region against smuggling; the protection and collection of revenue on dutiable goods on behalf of the Hong Kong Government; the detection and deterrence of drug trafficking and abuse of controlled drugs; the protection of intellectual property rights; the protection of consumer interests; and the protection and facilitation of legitimate trade and upholding Hong Kong's trading integrity .\n\n\"Hong Kong Customs\", originally known as the \"Preventive Service\", was founded in 1909. Initially it was responsible to collect the newly imposed duties on liquor. As commodities became subject to duties, the scope of the Preventive Service broadened to include tobacco and hydrocarbon oil, as well as duties related to the government opium monopoly. During times of war, the service prevented the export of precious metals and other commodities to the enemies of the United Kingdom and its allies. In 1963, with the passage of the Preventive Service Ordinance, the service gained the legal status to make regulations on its discipline, functions, powers and terms of service. In 1977, it was renamed the \"Hong Kong Customs and Excise Service\". On 1 August 1982, \"The Hong Kong Customs and Excise Department\" became independent from the Trade and Industry Department.\n\nThe C&ED is an active member of the World Customs Organization (WCO) and the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). It exchanges intelligence and works closely with overseas Customs administrations and law enforcement agencies. \n\nWith a view to tackling cybercrime, Hong Kong Customs established the Computer Forensic Laboratory, the Computer Analysis & Response Team, and the Anti-Internet Piracy Investigation Team in 2000. These specialized establishments prominently enhanced Customs' enforcement capability and the credibility of digital evidence presented to the courts. The Customs Computer Forensic Laboratory offers professional assistance in collecting, preserving, analyzing, and presenting digital evidence to law court in customs related cases. The digital forensic analysts from the laboratory are qualified to testify as expert witnesses in court of law. The forensic laboratory has been awarded ISO 9001 on quality management and ISO 27001 (BS 7799) on information security since 2006. The Hong Kong Customs Computer Forensic Laboratory is the first government unit of HKSAR (Hong Kong Special Administrative Region) to implement ISO 27001. In 2013, an Electronic Crime Investigation Centre was set up within the department.\n\nThe department is headed by the Commissioner of Customs and Excise. As at 1 April 2004, the department has an establishment of 4,931 posts, of which nine are directorate officers, 3,804 are members of the Customs and Excise Service, 504 are Trade Controls Officers and 614 are staff of the General and Common Grades.\n\nThere are five branches:\n\nThis is responsible for matters relating to dutiable commodities under the purview of the Financial Services and the Treasury Bureau, the international customs liaison and co-operation and the overall staff management and general administration of the Customs and Excise Service, including staff training, planning and provision of resources and department al facilities; and the housekeeping of the Office of Dutiable Commodities Administration, the Customs Liaison Bureau, the Office of Management Services, the Office of Service Administration and the Office of Training and Development.\n\nThis is responsible for matters relating to import and export controls under the purview of the Security Bureau and the housekeeping of the Airport Command, Control Points Command and the Ports and Maritime Command.\n\nThis branch is responsible for matters relating to recreational drugs and anti-smuggling activities under the schedule of the Security Bureau and issues relating to intellectual property under the purview of the Commerce, Industry and Technology Bureau; formulation of policies and strategies regarding the application of intelligence and risk management in :customs operations and the housekeeping of the Customs Drug Investigation Bureau, the Intellectual Property Investigation Bureau, the Intelligence Bureau, the Revenue and General Investigation Bureau, the money service operator licensing system and the Syndicate Crimes Investigation Bureau.\n\nThis branch is responsible for trade controls matters under the schedule of the Commerce, Industry and Technology Bureau and consumer protection matters under the schedule of the Economic Development and Labour Bureau, and comprises the Textiles Tactical Investigation Bureau, the Trade Inspection and Verification Bureau, the Trade Investigation Bureau, the General Investigation and Systems Bureau and the Consumer Protection and Prosecution Bureau.\n\nThis is responsible for all matters concerning departmental administration, financial management, information technology development and internal audit. The branch comprises the Office of Departmental Administration, the Office of Financial Administration, the Office of Information Technology, the Internal Audit Division and the Information Unit.\n\nThere is no tariff on goods entering Hong Kong, but excise duties are charged on four groups of commodities. These commodities are hydrocarbon oil, liquor, methyl alcohol and tobacco. These duties make no differentiation between imported commodities, or commodities manufactured locally for domestic consumption.\n\nIn 2003, the C&ED collected $6,484 million excise duty. Under the Dutiable Commodities Ordinance, the C&ED controls breweries, distilleries, tobacco factories, oil installations, ship and aircraft duty-free stores, and industrial and commercial establishments dealing with dutiable commodities; and supervises licensed, general bonded and public bonded warehouses.\n\nLicences are issued to those who import, export, manufacture or store dutiable commodities. The C&ED also assesses the First Registration Tax of vehicles under the Motor Vehicle (First Registration Tax) Ordinance. The Anti-illicit Cigarette Investigation Division is specially tasked to detect syndicated smuggling, distribution and peddling of dutiable cigarettes. The Diesel Oil Enforcement Division focuses its efforts on detecting the smuggling and misuse of illicit fuels.\n\nThe C&ED prevents and detects smuggling activities under the Import and Export Ordinance and enforces the licensing controls on prohibited articles by inspecting cargoes imported and exported by air, sea and land; processing passengers and their baggage at entry /exit points; and searching aircraft, vessels and vehicles entering and leaving Hong Kong. The Joint Police/Customs Anti-Smuggling Task Force is dedicated to combating smuggling activities by sea. The Control Points Investigation Division is tasked to strengthen the intelligence collection capability at the land boundary and suppress the cross-boundary smuggling activities.\n\nThe Hong Kong International Airport is one of the busiest airports in the world with a daily arrival of about 257 scheduled flights, bringing into Hong Kong a daily average of 25,989 passengers and 2,838 tonnes of imported cargoes. In 2003, the throughput of air passengers was 19 million whereas the throughput of air cargoes was about 2.64 million tonnes.\n\nHong Kong is one of the busiest container ports in the world. It handled 20.4 million TEUs (20-foot equivalent units) in 2003. Of these, 12.1 million TEUs were handled at the Kwai Chung Container Terminal. In 2003, 70,910 ocean-going ships and 365,190 coastal vessels entered and left Hong Kong.\n\nShips and vessels are subject to customs check. Cargoes are either examined on board sea freighters or after off-loading.\n\nIn 2003, a total of 8.6 million passengers arrived in Hong Kong from the Mainland and Macau by sea and by helicopters. They were processed at the China Ferry Terminal in Tsim Sha Tsui and the Hong Kong-Macau Ferry Terminal in Central. In addition, a daily average of 49 helicopter flights between Hong Kong and Macau are operated at the Hong Kong-Macau Ferry Terminal. Four Customs launches conduct maritime patrol in the territorial waters round the clock whereas four high-speed pursuit crafts and two shallow water patrol launches are employed to carry out interception at sea.\n\nOn average, 156,339 passengers arrive from the Mainland by land daily and they are processed at Man Kam To, Sha Tau Kok, Lok Ma Chau and Lo Wu control points. Additionally, 2,991 passengers enter Hong Kong by through-trains and are processed at Hung Hom Railway Station. Goods imported by road are checked at Man Kam To, Sha Tau Kok and Lok Ma Chau. In 2003, over 20 million tonnes of cargoes were imported through the land boundary control points.\n\n\nThe C&ED and the Hong Kong Police Force (HKPF) are responsible for anti-drug law enforcement. Seizures of illicit drugs in 2003 included 52.87 kilograms of heroin, 562.15 kilograms of herbal cannabis, 24.46 kilograms of cannabis resin, 8.33 kilograms of cocaine, 41.1 kilograms and 1,272 tablets of methylamphetamine, 35.56 kilograms and 141,038 tablets of ecstasy-type tablets (MDMA, etc.), 51.3 kilograms and 238 tablets of ketamine, and substantial quantities of various narcotics, analgesics and tranquillisers.\n\nA total of 8,652 persons were arrested for drug offences of whom 2,827 were arrested for major offences such as drug trafficking and manufacturing, and the remaining 5,825 were arrested for minor offences such as possession of illicit drugs.\n\nApart from intercepting smuggling of drugs at entry/exit control points, the department launches proactive investigations and surveillance operations on syndicated drug trafficking activities throughout Hong Kong. The department also flexibly deploys drug detector dogs and introduces advanced technologies, such as Mobile X-ray Vehicle Scanning Systems and Vehicle X-ray Inspection Systems, to assist anti-drug work.\n\nIn addition, the department closely monitors the trend of illicit drug use, in particular the growing popularity of psychotropic substances among the young and cross boundary drug crimes. The C&ED also investigates laundering of drug proceeds and initiates applications for freezing and confiscating assets derived from drug trafficking. Suspected drug-related assets worth $1.18 million were frozen, awaiting confiscation proceedings.\n\nThe department enforces a licensing system to control the import, export and dealing of 25 specific precursor chemicals which can be used for the manufacture of dangerous drugs. It exchanges intelligence and co-operates closely with the HKPF and various drug enforcement agencies on the Mainland and overseas in the fight against drug traffickers both locally and at international level.\n\nThe C&ED safeguards the certification and licensing systems which are of vital importance to Hong Kong's trading integrity. The department deters and investigates offences of origin fraud, circumvention of textiles licensing and quota control. It also investigates offences of import and export of strateg commodities and other prohibited articles not under and in accordance with a licence.\n\nThe department carries out cargo examination at control points, factory inspections, factory audit checks and consignment checks. It is also the department's enforcement strategy to administer a monetary reward scheme to encourage the supply of information on textile origin fraud.\n\nThe department is a member of the Hong Kong Compliance Office set up to assist the Central People's Government in implementing the Chemical Weapons Convention in Hong Kong. The department enforces licensing control on rice and consumer protection legislation relating to weights and measures, markings on fineness of precious metals, and safety of toys, children's products and consumer goods. The department also verifies import and export declarations to ensure accurate trade statistics and assesses and collects declaration charges and the clothing industry training levy.\n\nIn 2002/03, the department collected $848 million in declaration charges and $19.9 million in clothing industry training levies.\n\nThe C&ED has the mission to defend the interests of intellectual property rights owners and legitimate traders through staunch enforcement of the Copyright Ordinance, the Trade Descriptions Ordinance and the Prevention of Copyright Piracy Ordinance.\n\nThe department investigates and prosecutes copyright offences relating to literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works, sound recordings, cinematographic films, broadcasts and other published works under the Copyright Ordinance. It also takes enforcement action against commercial goods with forged trademark or false label under the Trade Descriptions Ordinance.\n\nAt the manufacture level, the Prevention of Copyright Piracy Ordinance requires local optical disc and stamper manufacturers to obtain licences from the department and mark on all their products specific identification codes. The Import and Export Ordinance imposes licensing controls on the import and export of optical disc mastering and replication equipment. A 147-strong Special Task Force has also been playing an important role in combating copyright piracy, and serves as a mobile brigade to reinforce the suppression of other customs-related crimes.\n\nThe C&ED is an active member of the World Customs Organization (WCO) and Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). It exchanges intelligence and works closely with overseas customs administrations and law enforcement agencies. The department has also entered bilateral Cooperative Arrangements with other customs authorities on administrative assistance. At the working level, the department and the Mainland customs have each established designated liaison officers to facilitate the exchange of intelligence through direct telephone hotlines.\n\nIn 2003, the C&ED seized a total of $1,244 million worth of goods. They included illicit drugs valued at $45 million; infringing goods worth $229 million; counterfeit goods worth $120 million; smuggled merchandises worth $541 million; dutiable commodities worth $284 million.\n\nDuring the year, the C&ED prosecuted 7,184 persons and firms under various laws enforced by the department.\n\nFines amounted to $31.83 million and 4,351 custodial sentences, aggregated to 1,671 years and 11 months, were imposed on convicted persons. Among the prosecutions, 803 were cases relating to unlawful commercial malpractices such as violation of licensing controls of strategic commodities, supplying false information in applications for certificate of origin, textile licensing frauds and contravention of consumer protection legislation.\n\nAs with all of the HK Disciplined Services, British-pattern ranks and insignia continue to be utilised, the only change being the exchange of the St. Edward's Crown for the Bauhinia flower crest post-1997. \n\n\nThe current crest of the force was adopted in 1997 to replace most of the colonial symbols:\n\nSource: Customs and Excise Department [Hong Kong]\n\nThe C&E officers are trained in the use of, and issued when required, revolvers as sidearms for lethal protection and an ASP expendable baton and Sabre Red pepper spray for less-than-lethal options on the field as same as the other disciplinary force members. Semi-automatic pistols are issued to the section tasked with providing witness protection. Members are also trained in the use of shotguns and sub-machine guns, however such long arms are rarely used. \n\nOfficers are required to go to the range at least twice a year after their graduation. While most members of the HK CED are not routinely armed, the personnel that do routinely carry sidearms are those staff responsible for dealing with serious crimes, anti-narcotics and armed escort stationed at the various ports, along with the members of the Special Task Force.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16215656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16215656", "title": "Czechoslovak government-in-exile", "text": "Czechoslovak government-in-exile\n\nThe Czechoslovak government-in-exile, sometimes styled officially as the Provisional Government of Czechoslovakia (Czech: \"Prozatímní státní zřízení československé\"), was an informal title conferred upon the Czechoslovak National Liberation Committee, initially by British diplomatic recognition. The name came to be used by other World War II Allies as they subsequently recognised it. The Committee was originally created by the former Czechoslovak President, Edvard Beneš in Paris, France, in October 1939. Unsuccessful negotiations with France for diplomatic status, as well as the impending Nazi occupation of France, forced the Committee to withdraw to London in 1940. The Czechoslovak Government-in-Exile offices were at various locations in London but mainly at a building called Fursecroft.\n\nIt was the legitimate government for Czechoslovakia throughout the Second World War. A specifically anti-Fascist government, it sought to reverse the Munich Agreement and the subsequent German occupation of Czechoslovakia, and to return the Republic to its 1937 boundaries. As such it was ultimately considered, by those countries that recognised it, the legal continuation of the First Republic of Czechoslovakia.\n\nSeeing the end of the Republic as a \"fait accompli\", Edvard Beneš resigned as president of the First Czechoslovak Republic one week after the Munich Agreement ceded the Sudetenland to Nazi Germany. He initially fled to London (→ Second exile). On 15 February 1939, he arrived in Chicago; he became visiting professor at the University of Chicago, where he took refuge in the same community that had once buoyed his predecessor and friend, Tomáš Masaryk. While there, he was urged to quickly return to Europe to organize some kind of government-in-exile. He therefore returned to Europe in July to live in Paris along with several other key players in his former administration. After World War II formally began, the group became known as the Czech National Liberation Committee, and immediately began to seek international recognition as the exiled government of Czechoslovakia. By the end of 1939, though, France and Britain had extended it the right to conclude international treaties – France on 13 November and Britain on 20 December 1939 – but did not yet see those treaties as having been concluded in the name of the Czechoslovak Republic.\nIt was in fact France itself that proved the greatest obstacle to accepting the Committee as a full government-in-exile. The government of Édouard Daladier was ambivalent towards the ambitions of the Committee and of Czechoslovakia in general. Though he had publicly seen the appeasement of Hitler as the road to war, Daladier ultimately capitulated to the wishes of Neville Chamberlain. After the war came, he and his government dithered over whether the Soviet or Nazi threat was the greater. Likewise, though he extended recognition to the Committee as a non-governmental agency, his government was non-committal to Beneš himself, and saw many possibilities for a post-war Czechoslovakia. One of its principal reservations about giving governmental status to Beneš, was the fact of the murky situation in the then-independent Slovakia (which was a satellite state of the German Empire). The French government of the winter of 1939/40 felt that Beneš was not necessarily speaking for all Czechoslovaks, based on the relatively fluid situation in Slovakia. France's diplomacy towards Beneš was therefore agile. It avoided any direct expression of support for the Beneš Committee's desire to return to the First Republic. However, as Beneš was the key to getting military support from the well-trained Czechoslovak army, France was in fact the first nation to conclude a treaty with the Committee. 2 October 1939 agreement between France and Beneš allowed for the reconstitution of the Czechoslovak army on French territory. Ultimately, units of the First Division of the Czechoslovak Army fought alongside their hosts in the final stages of the Battle of France.\nIt was the failure of the Allied military forces in this battle which most directly helped the ambitions of the Beneš Committee. With the fall of France, the views of the newly appointed prime minister Winston Churchill took predominance over the concerns of the waning Third Republic. He was very much clearer than his predecessor Chamberlain with respect to Czechoslovak affairs, and quickly recognized Beneš as the president of a government-in-exile after the fall of France. Nevertheless, the Committee still felt somewhat insecure about this recognition, because it specifically mentioned Beneš as president, but did not explicitly link Beneš to the previously-existing government. Thus, they pressed the British in April 1941 for even greater clarity. On the 18th of that month, they sent a letter to the British requesting that their agreements \"be concluded, as before September, 1938, in the name of the Czechoslovak Republic\". British Foreign Minister Anthony Eden gave such assent on 18 July 1941.\nThe United States and the Soviet Union were effectively forced to do the same later in the year, as Slovakia declared war on the two countries. With an Axis government both firmly and formally in place in Bratislava, the only friendly government left to recognize by the later half of 1941 was that of Beneš. The remaining legal question was whether the Beneš government was actually a \"continuation\" of the First Republic, or a successor without solid constitutional underpinnings. This doubt was erased by the spring of 1942. Following almost six months of planning behind enemy lines, Czechoslovak Allied operatives in Bohemia fatally wounded Reinhard Heydrich, the dictator at the head of the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. The success of this mission, Operation Anthropoid, caused Britain and Free France (itself a government-in-exile) to formally repudiate the Munich Agreement, thus conferring \"de jure\" legitimacy on the Beneš government as the continuation of the First Republic. The government's continued health now depended on Allied military victory.\n\nBeneš hoped for a restoration of the Czechoslovak state in its pre-Munich form after the anticipated Allied victory, a false hope.\n\nBeneš determined to strengthen Czechoslovak security against future German aggression through alliances with Poland and the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union, however, objected to a tripartite Czechoslovak-Polish-Soviet commitment. In December 1943, Beneš's government concluded a treaty with the Soviets. Beneš's interest in maintaining friendly relations with the Soviet Union was motivated also by his desire to avoid Soviet encouragement of a postwar communist coup in Czechoslovakia. Beneš worked to bring Czechoslovak communist exiles in the United Kingdom into cooperation with his government, offering far-reaching concessions, including nationalization of heavy industry and the creation of local people's committees at the war's end. In March 1945, he gave key cabinet positions to Czechoslovak communist exiles in Moscow.\n\nDuring the latter years of the war, Beneš worked toward resolving the German minority problem and received consent from the Allies for a solution based on a postwar transfer of the Sudeten German population. Especially after the Nazi reprisals for the assassination of Reinhard Heydrich, most of the Czech resistance groups demanded, based on German Nazi terror during occupation, the \"final solution of the German question\" () which would have to be \"solved\" by deportation of the ethnic Germans to Germany and Austria.\n\nThese demands were adopted by the Government-in-Exile, which sought the support of the Allies for this proposal, beginning in 1943. \n\nEdvard Beneš（October 1939–2 April 1945）\n\nJan Šrámek（21 July 1940 – 5 April 1945）\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5429081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5429081", "title": "Department of Health (Australia)", "text": "Department of Health (Australia)\n\nThe Department of Health is a department of the Government of Australia charged with overseeing the running of Australia's health system, including supporting universal and affordable access to medical, pharmaceutical and hospital services, as well as helping people to stay healthy through health promotion, participation and exercise and other disease prevention activities.\n\nThe head of the department is the Secretary of the Department of Health, currently Glenys Beauchamp, who reports to the Minister for Health and the Minister for Regional Services, Sport, Local Government and Decentralisation, currently the Hon. Greg Hunt MP and Senator Bridget McKenzie, and the Minister for Aged Care and the Minister for Indigenous Health, currently The Hon. Ken Wyatt . The ministers are assisted by the Assistant Minister for Health, currently The Hon. Dr David Gillespie MP .\n\nAccording to the Administrative Arrangements Order issued 18 September 2013, matters dealt with by the Department are:\n\nThe Department of Health (I) was established in 1921 and was the precursor to today's Department of Health. The first Department of Health was dissolved in 1987, when it was merged with the Department of Community Services to form the Department of Community Services and Health.\n\nIn June 1991, the Department of Health, Housing and Community Services was formed when housing industry programs were transferred from the Department of Industry, Technology and Commerce. In March 1993 the Department of Immigration, Local Government and Ethnic Affairs joined with the Department of Health, Housing and Community Services to form the Department of Health, Housing, Local Government and Community Services. Subsequently, in December 1993, the Department was abolished and replaced with the Department of Human Services and Health. Also in 1994, the Office of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health was established.\n\nAfter a new government was elected in March 1996, the Department of Health and Family Services was formed. The department also had responsibility for the Supported Accommodation Assistance Program from the former Department of Housing and Regional Development. Later, the department assumed responsibility for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health matters from the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission.\n\nAfter the October 1998 election, the Department was abolished and replaced by the Australian Federal Department of Health and Aged Care, named to reflect new responsibilities and functions. Responsibility for Family and Children's Services, Disability Programs and the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Service were transferred to the Department of Family and Community Services on 22 October 1998.\n\nFollowing the November 2001 election, the Australian Federal Department of Health and Aged Care was abolished and replaced with the Australian Federal Department of Health and Ageing. The Australian Federal Department of Health and Ageing was abolished in 2013 and replaced by the current Australian Federal Department of Health on 18 September 2013 by way of an \"Administrative Arrangements Order\" issued by the Governor-General of Australia on the recommendation of the Abbott Government.\n\n"}
{"id": "29574448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29574448", "title": "Dzongkha Development Commission", "text": "Dzongkha Development Commission\n\nThe Dzongkha Development Commission (རྫོང་ཁ་གོང་འཕེལ་ལྷན་ཚོགས), also called the DDC, is the pre-eminent body on matters pertaining to the Dzongkha language. The DDC was officially established in 1986 by Jigme Singye Wangchuk, the fourth king of Bhutan, to preserve and promote the use of Dzongkha as the national language of Bhutan. The DDC offices are now located in the Kawajangtsa area of Thimphu, close to the National Library of Bhutan and the Ministry of Education.\n\nThe Dzongkha Development Commission consists of two parts: the Commission itself having nine eminent members (or commissioners) chaired by the Prime Minister of Bhutan; and the DDC Secretariat which carries out the day-to-day work of the Commission.\n\nThe body has the task of acting as an official authority on the language. It is charged with promoting the use of Dzongkha; researching and publishing official dictionaries and grammar of the language; developing new lexical terminology; and developing software and fonts to support the language.\n\n"}
{"id": "43195662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43195662", "title": "Equality Texas", "text": "Equality Texas\n\nEquality Texas is a statewide political advocacy organization in Texas that advocates for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights, including same-sex marriage.\n\nEquality Texas was founded in 1989 as a 501(c)(4) nonprofit corporation. Equality Texas Foundation was founded in 1990 as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit corporation.\n\nEquality Texas comprises Equality Texas Foundation, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit corporation engaged in research and public education on LGBT issues, and Equality Texas, a 501(c)(4) nonprofit corporation engaged in statewide political LGBT advocacy.\n\nEquality Texas programs currently active include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "529857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529857", "title": "Eurabia", "text": "Eurabia\n\nEurabia is a political neologism, a portmanteau of Europe and Arabia, used to describe a conspiracy theory of globalist elements, allegedly led by French and Arab powers, to Islamise and Arabise Europe, thereby weakening its existing culture and undermining a previous alignment with the U.S. and Israel.\n\nThe concept was coined by Bat Ye'or (pen name of Gisele Littman) in the early 2000s and is described in her 2005 book titled \"Eurabia: The Euro‐Arab Axis\". Benjamin Lee of the Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats at the University of Lancaster describes her work as arguing that Europe \"has surrendered to Islam and is in a state of submission (described as dhimmitude) in which Europe is forced to deny its own culture, stand silently by in the face of Muslim atrocities, accept Muslim immigration, and pay tribute through various types of economic assistance.\" According to the theory, the blame rests with a range of groups including communists, fascists, the media, universities, mosques and Islamic cultural centres, European bureaucrats, and the Euro-Arab Dialogue.\n\nThe term has gained some public interest and has been used and discussed across a wide range of the political spectrum, including right-wing activists, counter-jihadis and different sorts of anti-Islamic, and conservative activists. Bat Ye'or's “Mother conspiracy theory” has been used for further subtheories. The narrative grew important in expressing anti-Islamic sentiments and was used by movements like Stop Islamisation of Europe. It gained renewed interest after the 9/11 events and the use of the term by 2011 Norway attacker, Anders Behring Breivik. Ye'or's thesis has come under criticism by scholars, which intensified post Breivik. The conspiracy has been described as having resemblance to the anti-Semitic \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\".\n\nEurabia is also discussed in classical anti-Europeanism, a strong influence in the culture of the United States and in the notion of American exceptionalism, which sometimes sees Europe on the decline or as a rising rival power, or, as is the case here, both.\n\nIn \"Eurabia: The Euro-Arab Axis\", Bat Ye'or says that Eurabia is the result of the Euro-Arab Dialogue, based on an allegedly French-led European policy intended to increase European power against the United States by aligning its interests with those of the Arab countries. During the 1973 oil crisis, the European Economic Community (predecessor of the European Union), had entered into the Euro-Arab Dialogue (EAD) with the Arab League. Ye'or says it as a primary cause of alleged European hostility to Israel, referring to joint Euro-Arab foreign policies that she characterises as anti-American and anti-Zionist. Ye'or purported a close connection of a Eurabia conspiracy and used the term \"dhimmitude\", denoting alleged \"western subjection to Islam\". The term itself is based on a newsletter published in the 1970s by the \"Comité européen de coordination des associations d'amitié avec le monde Arabe\", a Euro-Arab friendship committee.\n\nBat Ye'or's \"Eurabia: The Euro-Arab Axis\" was the first print publication in the Eurabia genre, which has since grown to a number of titles, including Melanie Phillips' \"Londonistan\", Oriana Fallaci's \"The Force of Reason\", and Bruce Bawer's \"While Europe Slept\".\nThe term is often used by the writers Oriana Fallaci, Mark Steyn and several web sites, many of them affiliated with the counterjihad movement. \"Defeating Eurabia\" by Fjordman (the pen name of Peder Are Nøstvold Jensen) earned him a high standing among far-right extremists.\n\nAn important part of the narrative is the idea of a demographic threat, the fear that, at some time in the future, Islam will take over Europe. or as Bernard Lewis put it, \"Europe will be Islamic by the end of the century.\" Walter Laqueur's \"The Last Days of Europe\" is quoted often among the Eurabia literature; however, he modified his statements later.\n\nThe slogan has become a basic theme in the European extremist and populist right and expresses as well a significant strategy change. This has led to the adoption of political positions that were previously considered fringe or third rail on either side. The main anti-Islamic theme has also penetrated into mainstream European politics, for instance in the case of Dutch populist Party for Freedom leader Geert Wilders:\nThis government is enthusiastically co-operating with the Islamisation of the Netherlands. In all of Europe the elite opens the floodgates wide. In only a little while, one in five people in the European Union will be Muslim. Good news for this multiculti-government that views bowing to the horrors of Allah as its most important task. Good news for the CDA : C-D-A, in the meanwhile stands for Christians Serve Allah (Christenen Dienen Allah).\n\nSignificant alterations in the asserted positions of the political (far) right include a sudden focus on the rights of women and homosexuals. The conservative historian Nigel Ferguson referred to the concept, taken as the potential future Islamisation of Europe based on mere demographic facts and a supposed ideational lack of the continent.\n\nWhile immigrants are being deemed a threat, in the postwar 1940s period, the British extreme right – in particular, fascist politician Oswald Mosley– were rather outspoken (see the Union Movement and the Europe a Nation slogan) in favour of a stronger integration of Britain with Europe and, using their own interpretation of the Eurafrica concept, Africa.\n\nSome academics have described the Eurabia concept as an Islamophobic conspiracy theory. Eurabia shortcuts the complex interaction between the US, France, Israel, the Arabic and Muslim countries on an \"us against them\" basis. The Eurabia theories are dismissed as Islamophobic, extremist and conspiracy theories in the academic community. At first academics showed little interest in the Eurabia theories due to their lack of factual basis. The theme was treated in studies of rightist extremism and Middle East Politics. This changed after the 2011 Norway attacks, which resulted in the publication of several works specifically treating the Eurabia conspiracy theories.\nJanne Haaland Matláry went as far as to say that \"it is poor use of time to analyse something so primitive\".\n\nThe Pew Research Center said in 2011 that \"the data that we have isn't pointing in the direction of 'Eurabia' at all\", and predicts that the percentage of Muslims is estimated to rise to 8% in 2030. In 2007 academics who analysed the demographics dismissed the predictions that the EU would have Muslim majorities.\nIt is completely reasonable to assume that the overall Muslim population in Europe will increase, and Muslim citizens have and will have a significant imprint on European life. The prospect of a homogenous Muslim community per se, or a Muslim majority in Europe is however out of the question.\n\nJustin Vaïsse seeks to discredit what he calls, \"four myths of the alarmist school\", using Muslims in France as an example. Specifically he has written that the Muslim population growth rate was lower than that predicted by Eurabia, partly because the fertility rate of immigrants declines with integration. He further points out that Muslims are not a monolithic or cohesive group, and that many Muslims do seek to integrate politically and socially. Finally, he wrote that despite their numbers, Muslims have had little influence on French foreign policy.\n\nFurthermore, leading European Muslims are rather outspoken against religious fundamentalism and are far from acknowledging Arab countries as a role model at all.\n\n\"The Economist\" rejected the concept of Eurabia as \"scaremongering\". Simon Kuper in \"Financial Times\" described Ye'or's book as \"little-read but influential\", and akin to \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion in reverse\", adding that \"though ludicrous, Eurabia became the spiritual mother of a genre\".\n\nDavid Aaronovitch acknowledges that the threat of \"jihadist terror\" may be real, but that there is no threat of Eurabia. Aaronovitch concludes that those who study conspiracy theories will recognize Eurabia to be a theory that adds the \"Sad Dupes thesis to the Enemy Within idea\".\n\nRalph Peters has criticized the Eurabia narrative on the grounds that it is unlikely to happen as posited, citing the historical precedent of genocides frequently occurring in Europe, such as in the Balkans during the 1990s and the Holocaust during World War II. Peters stated that if Muslims \"taking over\" Europe were imminent, Europeans would either forcibly deport their Muslims at best or engage in a genocide of them at worst, possibly leading to a U.S. intervention on behalf of persecuted Muslims.\n\nExamples of proponents use:\n\nIn his book \"Wars of Blood and Faith\", conservative US military analyst Ralph Peters states that far from being about to take over Europe through demographic change, \"Europe's Muslims are living on borrowed time\" and that in the event of a major terrorist attack in Europe, thanks to the \"ineradicable viciousness\" of Europeans and what he perceives as a historical tendency to over-react to real or perceived threats, European Muslims \"will be lucky if they're only deported.\"\n\nAccording to Marján and Sapir, the very idea of \"Eurabia\" is \"based on an extremist conspiracy theory, according to which Europe and the Arab states would join forces to make life impossible for Israel and Islamize the old continent.\"\n\nWriting in \"Race & Class\" in 2006, author and freelance journalist Matt Carr argued that Eurabia had moved from \"an outlandish conspiracy theory\" to a \"dangerous Islamophobic fantasy\". Carr states, \n\nArun Kundnani, writing for the International Centre for Counter-terrorism, notes that \"Eurabia\" fulfills the counter-jihad movement's \"structural need\" for a conspiracy theory, and compares \"Eurabia\" to \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", while Carr compares it to the Zionist Occupation Government conspiracy theory.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks, Muslims and the Arab world emerged as a perceived threat. Muslim minority populations and Muslim immigration gained new political significance. Scholar José Pedro Zúquete notes that\nEurabia had then re-entered into the vocabulary through Bat Ye'or's work, most notably the book published in 2005, \"Eurabia: The Euro-Arab Axis\", although she first used the term in 2002. Subsequently, the coining of the term has been attributed to her.\n\n\"2083: A European Declaration of Independence\", the manifesto of Anders Behring Breivik, the perpetrator of the 2011 Norway attacks, includes a lengthy discussion of and support for the \"Eurabia\" theory. It also contains several articles on the Eurabia theme by Bat Ye'or and Fjordman.\n\nBreivik has later identified himself as a fascist and voiced support for neo-Nazis, stating that he previously had exploited \"counterjihad\" rhetoric in order to protect \"ethno-nationalists\", thereby instead launching a media drive against what he deemed \"anti-nationalist counterjihad\"-supporters.\n\nIn the United States, the theories have found strong proponents in the counter-jihad movement, among them the president of Stop Islamization of America, Robert Spencer and political commentators Daniel Pipes and Mark Steyn. In his 2011–2012 run for the Republican presidential nomination, senator Rick Santorum warned that Europe was \"creating an opportunity for the creation of Eurabia\", and that the continent was \"losing, because they are not having children.\"\n\nEurabia theories have also been espoused by less typical conservatives, for example, Bruce Bawer, an American expatriate who has lived in Europe since the 1990s, and supported Ye'or's allegations that there was a deliberate, coordinated effort to create Eurabia. He offered guarded approval of some of Ye'or's ideas, but also wrote: \"I’d strongly question the implication that the entire European political establishment has been in on the effort to unite Europe and the Arab world, and to this end has labored to encourage immigration and discourage integration.\" Bawer argued that many European politicians and policy makers, in efforts to gain approval of Muslim voters or to appeal to multiculturalism, were effectively allowing the creation of Muslim-only enclaves where basic human rights were ignored and events like honor killings had become commonplace.\n\nA 2007 film outline by Steve Bannon, who would later become the chief strategist for President Donald Trump and a member of the U.S. National Security Council, proposed that Muslims were trying to turn the United States into the \"Islamic States of America\".\n\n"}
{"id": "652798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652798", "title": "Forum 18", "text": "Forum 18\n\nForum 18 is a Norwegian human rights organization that promotes religious freedom. The organization's name is based on Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Forum 18 summarizes the article as:\n\n\nThe \"Forum 18 News Service\", established by Forum 18 in 2003, is a Christian web and e-mail initiative to report on threats and actions against the religious freedom of all people, whatever their religious affiliation, in an objective, truthful and timely manner. The news service mainly concentrates on the states of the former Soviet Union, including Belarus and Central Asia, and Eastern Europe, but has also published reports on Kosovo, Macedonia, Serbia, Turkey, Burma, China (including Xinjiang), Laos, Mongolia, North Korea, and Vietnam.\n\nThe news service is published in two editions: a weekly news summary each Friday; and an almost daily edition published on weekdays. There is a searchable archive of reports, including religious freedom surveys of countries and regions, and personal commentaries on religious freedom issues.\n\nIn August 2005 one of the organisation's reporters was detained and deported by the authorities at Tashkent airport in Uzbekistan, but it carries on covering that country.\n\nThe reports on religious freedom from Forum 18 News Service are widely used by international organizations like Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), as well as numerous news sites with different religious affiliation (i.e. Muslim, Christian, Bahá'í, and Buddhist,).\n"}
{"id": "140403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140403", "title": "Freedom of information in the United States", "text": "Freedom of information in the United States\n\nFreedom of information in the United States results from freedom of information legislation at the federal level and in the fifty states.\n\nThe federal government is bound by several laws intended to promote openness in government. However, these normally apply only to federal bodies, leaving many institutions exempt compared to their counterparts in other countries.\n\nThe most important was the Freedom of Information Act, signed into law on July 4, 1966, by President Lyndon Johnson.\n\n\n\n\nThe Holder Memo is part of series of policy memos on how federal agencies should apply FOIA exemptions. Beginning in 1977 with Attorney General Griffin Bell, and continued by Attorney General William French Smith in 1981 and Attorney General Janet Reno in 1993, U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has announced how the executive branch should approach FOIA, its application, and DOJ's defense of agency's actions. In other words, DOJ's position on when they would defend in a FOIA suit has seesawed for about the last three decades.\n\nThe Reno Memo established a \"presumption\" in favor of disclosure by providing that \"it shall be the policy of the Department of Justice to defend the assertion of a FOIA exemption only in those cases where the agency reasonably foresees that disclosure would be harmful to an interest protected by that exemption\". It encouraged all government agencies to review FOIA requests in a manner most favorable to openness and to release information, even though it might fall within one of the nine exemption categories, if no \"foreseeable harm\" would result from the disclosure. The goal was to achieve the \"maximum responsible disclosure\".\n\nOn October 12, 2001, Attorney General John Ashcroft issued a policy memorandum on FOIA to all federal executive agencies. The AG declared the Department of Justice (DOJ) would defend agencies' decisions to withhold documents from a FOIA requester under one of the statute's exemptions \"unless they lack a sound legal basis or present an unwarranted risk of adverse impact on the ability of other agencies to protect other important records\".\n\nThe Ashcroft Memorandum reversed the Reno standard. Agencies were told that in making discretionary FOIA decisions they should carefully consider the fundamental values behind the exemptions—national security, privacy, government's interests, etc.—and to lean in their favor whenever possible. The Ashcroft Memo with its \"sound legal basis\" standard encouraged (or at least seemed to support) greater use of FOIA exemptions by federal agency personnel.\n\nThe Ashcroft Memo was rescinded by Attorney General Eric Holder on March 14, 2009. The AG Holder Memo appears to have reinstated the Reno Memo standard and extends the policy. The policy of the executive branch is to be open, responsive, transparent, and accountable. The current memo encourages the maximum disclosure possible in discretionary exemptions and to, whenever possible, reasonably segregate exempt information and release the rest.\n\nAll fifty U.S. states also have freedom of information laws that govern documents at state and local levels.\n\nStates have various laws requiring that meetings convened by government agencies be open to the public and sufficiently advertised; these are known as open meeting laws.\n\nThe provisions of these laws vary considerably by state. Florida, Ohio, and Vermont are known for having pro-access freedom of information laws. Florida was one of the first states to enact an open government sunshine law. Other jurisdictions, such as Pennsylvania and the District of Columbia, were until recently known for being relatively non-transparent but have since made significant changes to their open government laws to foster greater public access to information.\n\nOn April 29, 2013, in the case of McBurney v. Young, the United States Supreme Court found that Virginia's Freedom of Information Act, which grants only Virginia citizens access to public records and does not grant any such right to non-Virginians, does not violate the Privileges and Immunities Clause (which only protects those privileges and immunities that are \"fundamental\") or the Commerce Clause (specifically, the Dormant Commerce Clause doctrine) of the United States Constitution.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44121680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44121680", "title": "Galician Antifascist Students Assembly", "text": "Galician Antifascist Students Assembly\n\nGalician Antifascist Students Assembly (AEGA, \"Assembleia de Estudantes Galeg@s Antifascistas\" in Galician language) was a Galician student union with its main base in the University of Vigo. AEGA had an antifascist, anticapitalist and Galician independentist ideology. The organization was one of the 4 student groups that created AGIR in 2000, dissolving itself in the process. A sector of AEGA (mainly the more anarchist sector) that didn't agree with the self-dissolution formed Assembleia Azrael, that disappeared in 2001. One of the main goals of the organization was to fight fascism in the University of Vigo, specially the Syndicalist Students Front, a student group linked with the Falange.\n"}
{"id": "30410145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30410145", "title": "General Secretary of the Communist Party of Kampuchea", "text": "General Secretary of the Communist Party of Kampuchea\n\nGeneral Secretary of the Central Committee () was the highest office in the Communist Party of Kampuchea. The General Secretary was elected at plenary sessions of the Party's Central Committee, and chaired the Secretariat and Politburo. The office was abolished when the CPK dissolved in 1981, two years after being removed from power in a counterattack by Vietnamese forces.\n"}
{"id": "50488715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50488715", "title": "Global Pound Conference", "text": "Global Pound Conference\n\nThe Global Pound Conference series (GPC) was a series of conferences about alternative dispute resolution (ADR) held in many cities in several countries in 2016/2017. The title of the conference series was \"Shaping the Future of Dispute Resolution & Improving Access to Justice\".. It was organised as an initiative of the International Mediation Institute (IMI). \n\nThe series was inspired by Harvard law professor Roscoe Pound and a 1976 conference named for him, which was an impetus for the growth in the popularity of mediation in the USA.\n\nThe GPC series brought Global Pound Conferences to multiple locations around the world in 2016 and 2017, with the aim of raising awareness about the various dispute resolution methods available. It brought together users, providers and advisors to discuss the future direction of ADR.. After ending, the GPC platform changed to become the Global Pound Conversation, a blog and research series covering changes and developments in mediation and alternative dispute resolution around the world.\n"}
{"id": "33375331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33375331", "title": "House of European History", "text": "House of European History\n\nThe House of European History (HEH) (, ) is a museum in Brussels, Belgium that focuses on the history of Europe since 1789. It is an initiative by the European Parliament and opened on 6 May 2017. As a cultural institution and exhibition centre, the House of European History intends to promote the understanding of European history and European integration, through a permanent exhibition and temporary and travelling exhibitions.\n\nIt houses a collection of objects and documents representative of European history, educational programs, cultural events and publications, as well as a wide range of online content. It is located in the Eastman Building near the Leopold Park in Brussels, close to the European institutions.\n\nThe idea of creating a museum dedicated to European history was launched on 13 February 2007 by President Hans-Gert Pöttering in his inaugural speech as president of the European Parliament. One of the key objectives of the project was \"to enable Europeans of all generations to learn more about their own history and, by so doing, to contribute to a better understanding of the development of Europe, now and in the future.\" \n\nIn October 2008, a committee of experts led by Professor , the Head of the House of the History of the Federal Republic of Germany, submitted a report entitled \"Conceptual Basis for a House of European History\" which established the general concept and content of the project and outlined its institutional structure. \n\nIn June 2009, the Bureau of the European Parliament decided to assign the former Eastman Dental Hospital to the future museum and, in July, launched an international architectural competition. On 31 March 2011, the winning practice Atelier d'architecture Chaix & Morel et associés (FR), and TPF (BE) was appointed to carry out the renovation and extension of the building. With the backing of an expert board which brings together internationally renowned specialists chaired by Professor Włodzimierz Borodziej, a multi-disciplinary team of professionals led by historian and curator Taja Vovk van Gaal was set up within the European Parliament's Directorate-General for Communication to prepare the exhibitions and the structure of the future establishment.\n\nThe House of European History gives visitors the opportunity to learn about European historical processes and events, and engage in critical reflection about the implication of the processes on the present day. It is a centre for exhibitions, documentation and information which places processes and events within a wider historical and critical context, bringing together and juxtaposing the contrasting historical experiences of European people. \nIt is planned that the main focus of the permanent exhibition will be on European history of the 20th century and the history of European integration, with additional perspectives on the main historical processes of previous centuries. The aim is not simply to present summaries of national histories, but to look at important historical phenomena from a transnational and European perspective.\n\nThe originality of the project lies, therefore, in the endeavour to convey a transnational overview of European history, while taking into account the diversity of European history and its many interpretations and perceptions. It aims to enable a wide public to understand recent history in the context of previous centuries that have marked and shaped ideas and values. In this way the House aims to facilitate discussion and debate about Europe and the European Union. \n\nWith a surface area of approximately at its disposal, the permanent exhibition is the centrepiece of the House of European History. Using objects and documents and an extensive range of media, it provides a journey through the history of Europe, principally that of the 20th century, with retrospectives on developments and events in earlier periods which were of particular significance for the whole continent. In this context, the history of European integration is exhibited in all its uniqueness and with all its complexity.\n\nThe House is visitor-centred, wheelchair- and pushchair-friendly and open to all, in compliance with the European Parliament's policies relating to accessibility. To that end its main offers are presented in at least 24 languages, corresponding to the official languages of the European Union at the time of opening. Given that multilingualism is an expression of the cultural diversity of Europe, the House of European History wants its visitors to experience its multilingual exhibits and services as one of the institution's main assets.\n\nIn December 2012, in the context of the Nobel Peace Prize awarded to the European Union, it was decided that the Nobel medal and diploma will form part of the permanent exhibition of the House of European History, as the first objects in its collection. \n\nThe Eastman building, originally designed to house a dental clinic, was named after George Eastman, the American philanthropist and inventor of the Kodak camera. His generous donations allowed the creation of dental centres in New York, London, Rome, Paris, Brussels and Stockholm, dedicated to providing free dental care for disadvantaged children. \n\nIn 1933, the Eastman Foundation approached the Swiss architect Michel Polak, known for his Art Deco style and particularly the famous Résidence Palace in Brussels, to design the new building. Inaugurated in 1935, the building is interesting both in terms of its engineering and its Art Deco elements. In the former children's waiting room there is a series of murals by the painter Camille Barthélémy illustrating La Fontaine’s fables. \n\nThe Leopold Park, containing a number of historic buildings such as the Pasteur Institute and the Solvay Library, was listed in 1976. The Eastman Building itself is not listed. The dental clinic closed its doors before the building was converted into offices for the European institutions in the 1980s.\n\nThe House of European History was created at the initiative of the European Parliament but is run independently.\n\nThe museum is directed by a Board of Trustees, chaired by the former president of the European Parliament Hans-Gert Pöttering. Its members include Étienne Davignon, Włodzimierz Borodziej, Miguel Angel Martinez, Gérard Onesta, Doris Pack, Chrysoula Paliadeli, , Charles Picqué, Alain Lamassoure, Peter Sutherland, Androulla Vassiliou, Diana Wallis, and Francis Wurtz.\n\nThe Academic Committee, chaired by Włodzimierz Borodziej, comprises historians and museum curators. Its members are Norman Davies, Hans-Walter Hütter, Matti Klinge, Miguel Angel Martínez Martínez, Anita Meinarte, Hélène Miard-Delacroix, Mary Michailidou, Hans-Gert Pöttering, Antonio Reis, Maria Schmidt, Jean-Pierre Verdier, Henk Wesseling and Oliver Rathkolb. The academic team which is responsible for curating exhibitions is led by Taja Vovk van Gaal.\n\nDevelopment phase 2011–2015: €31 million for the renovation and extension of the building, €21.4 million for the permanent and the first temporary exhibitions (€15.4 million for fitting-out exhibition and other spaces, €6 million for multilingualism) and €3.75 million to build up the collection. The museum is funded by the European Parliament.\n\nSince its initial conception, the House of European History project has been controversial, especially in the UK. The alleged \"attempt to find a single unifying narrative of the histories of 27 disparate member states\" has been criticised by the British think tank Civitas, saying \"the House of European History can achieve nothing but a disingenuous paradox, aiming to tell the history of all the 27 states, but in fact relating no history at all.\" \n\nMore than the museum's contents, the museum's costs have come under fire. The costs were accused of having \"more than doubled\", the projects initial £58 million cost estimate were accused to have more than doubled to £137 million. Furthermore, others have criticised the spending in times of recession, like the UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen is quoted as saying: \"It defies both belief and logic that in this age of austerity MEPs have the vast sums of money to fund this grossly narcissistic project.\"\n\nThe museum's permanent exhibition was criticised by Platform of European Memory and Conscience which accused the museum of favourable bias in relation to the portrayal of communism in the Eastern Block. The Acton Institute criticised the permanent exhibition for \"erasing religion\" as a factor in European history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33059550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33059550", "title": "Human rights in Fiji", "text": "Human rights in Fiji\n\nFiji is an island nation in Melanesia in the South Pacific Ocean with a population of approximately 849,000. It is made up of Fijians (57 per cent), Indo-Fijians (37 per cent), Europeans, Chinese, other Pacific islanders, and people of mixed racial descent (6 per cent). Fiji has been in a state of political unrest since their independence from Britain in 1970. \n\nNormally the Fijian political system is one of a parliamentary representative democratic republic. There have been four military coups since Fiji's independence from Britain in 1970. Since 1987 the military has either had a significant influence in the politics of Fiji, or have been directly ruling. Fiji was governed by military-backed régime from December 2006 to September 2014, at which point a general election restored a parliamentary civilian government.\n\nFiji became a member of the United Nations 13 October 1970. Fiji has acceded to some, but not the majority, of the key human rights treaties. It is a party to the conventions against racism (Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination) and discrimination against women (Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women), and on the rights of the child (Convention on the rights of the Child). \n\nIn March 2016, Fiji ratified the (Convention Against Torture). Fiji has not acceded to the covenants on civil and political rights (International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights), or on economic, social and cultural rights (International Covenant on Economic Social and Cultural rights). Fiji is also not a party to the convention on persons with disabilities (Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities).\n\nThe most current constitution of Fiji was introduced in 2013, laying the groundwork for the restoration of democracy.\n\nThe fourth chapter of the 1997 Constitution of Fiji, titled the Bill of Rights, comprised a total of twenty three sections and contained provisions for human rights protections. The 1997 constitution was the supreme law of Fiji from the creation of it in 1997 until April 2009. However, it was suspended by President Josefa Iloilo in April 2009 after the Fijian Court of Appeal ruled that the military government that was in power, who took over as a result of a coup d’etat in 2006, illegal.\n\nEven though the Constitution of Fiji was abrogated in 2009, the President on 10 April 2009, issued the “Existing Law Decree 2009” stipulating that all “Existing Laws in force immediately before the 10th day of April 2009 shall continue in force...” “Existing Laws” meant all written laws other than the Constitution Amendment Act 1997. This decree guaranteed the continued existence of all human rights related local laws existing in Fiji during and including the time of the abrogation of the Constitution.\n\nThe new Constitution introduced in 2013 includes a Bill of Rights (chapter 2, articles 6 to 45). It protects, among others, the right of habeas corpus, the right to due process, freedom of expression, freedom of movement and association, freedom of conscience, the right to privacy, the right to participate through elections in the political process, protection from discrimination (on any grounds including ethnicity, gender, social origin, sexual orientation, age, \"economic or social or health status\", disability or religion), property rights, the right to education, \"the right of every person to work and to a just minimum wage\", the right to adequate housing, access to food and water, and the right to health and to social security schemes. It also guarantees (article 40) \"the right to a clean and healthy environment, which includes the right to have the natural world protected for the benefit of present and future generations\".\n\n[Information here removed as copyright violation. The information may be found at its original source here.]\n\nThe Human Rights Commission Decree 2009 was passed by the military regime to establish the Commission and lays the groundwork in its work in and out of the country. Since then, the Commission have played a vital role in promoting human rights in Fiji and advocating it abroad. During the 2009 Fijian constitutional crisis, the Fiji Human Rights Commission showed support for the then President, Ratu Josefa Iloilo, stating that \"the President had no choice but to abrogate the 1997 Constitution after the Fiji Court of Appeal ruled that the interim government was illegal.\" However, the Head of the Fijian Human Rights Commission, Shaista Shameem, also stated that the Commission would act as if the Bill of Rights part of the Constitution was still legally in effect.\n\nThe Universal Periodic Review, which is a progress which involves a review of the human rights records of the Member States of the UN, by the Human Rights Council, every four years, reviewed the human rights situation in Fiji in August 2009.\n\n“Fiji remains a military dictatorship that denies its citizens the right to take part in self-government through free and fair elections, as well as the freedoms of speech, press, assembly, and religion. Since the December 5, 2006 coup d'état, the military and police have arbitrarily arrested and detained human rights defenders, journalists and others perceived as critical of the administration. Four people have died in military or police custody and dozens of people have been intimidated, beaten, sexually assaulted, or subjected to degrading treatment. Fiji's interim administration continues to fail to uphold the rule of law and has seriously compromised the independence of the judiciary. No UN special procedures have visited since the 2006 coup. A visit by the UN Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers is pending, though the Fiji government has failed to advise a suitable time for this visit. The government has not responded to the request to visit of the Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.”\n\n\n\nIn July 2009, the interim Prime Minister Voreqe Bainimarama announced that Fiji would have a new constitution by 2013. This new constitution would derive from the People's Charter for Change, Peace and Progress and well as from “extensive consultations with political parties, non-governmental organizations and ordinary citizens.\n\nThe United Nations special rapporteur has urged the government of Fiji to strengthen its Human Rights Commission by ratifying several key international agreements including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the ILO agreement on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989. He urged the strengthening of the Fiji's Human Rights and Anti-Discrimination Commission and the peaceful dealing with hate speech on social media without infringing on people's freedom of expression. These he said, are the key issues holding the nation back on taking a step forward in its dealings with human rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29778453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29778453", "title": "Human trafficking in Azerbaijan", "text": "Human trafficking in Azerbaijan\n\nAzerbaijan is also not so far from this disaster. Youth is the main place among people exploitation by human traffickers. There is a struggle in human trafficking for many years.\nThere are some aid center for victims in human trafficking as the Main Department on struggle against Human traffic and the Aid Center to the victims of Human trafficking in Azerbaijan.\n\nU.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2\" in 2017.\n\nMain Department on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings was established in order to effectively execute the tasks identified in the National Action Plan, ensure of security of the victims of trafficking in persons, provide them with professional aid, protection of information collected in unique center in combat with human trafficking. In fight against human trafficking trained and professional police members work in this department.\n\nThe Aid Center to the Victims of Human Trafficking operates as nonprofit institutions.The aim of the center to the victims of human trafficking are protection the rights and interests of the victims of human trafficking, medical, psychological aid, social rehabilitation of themde, their reintegration into society, to help return to normal life.\nCentre makes plan of social rehabilitation of victims of human trafficking for responding each of the individual human and civil rights, help legally for the recovery of the rights of victims, ensure them employment and training, providing with residential area for the victims of trafficking.If the victims are children, this center report immediately information about them to commission of protection their rights and the Commission on guardianship and custody.\n\nAid center of victims of human trafficking provided with different types of assistance to 93 people ( 63 of them were real victims, the others were potential victims) in 2016.\n\nPartnership is very important in this area. Usually the representatives of US and Azerbaijan criticise each other within the OSCE Human Dimension Implementation Meetings. US is the biggest partner of Azerbaijan in the fight against human trafficking.\nIn March 2016, the US embassy and the Main Department for Combating Human Trafficking in Azerbaijan, organised an international conference.\nDuring the conference, carried out the coordination of joint activities of law enforcement agencies. One of the programs carried out by the United States in Azerbaijan aimed at combating human trafficking.\nWith the support of the United States, steps were taken to create of shelters for victims of human trafficking and to increase the capacity of the labor of the people there.\nThe United States joins forces with Azerbaijan in the fight against human trafficking in harmony with the priorities identified in the Concept of \"Azerbaijan 2020: vision to future\". USAID is executing joint projects with the fitting bodies of Azerbaijan.\n\n"}
{"id": "14765976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14765976", "title": "Hungarian National Defence Association", "text": "Hungarian National Defence Association\n\nThe Hungarian National Defence Association ( or ) was an early far right movement active in Hungary. The structure of the group was largely paramilitary and as such separate from its leader's later political initiatives.\n\nMOVE grew out of the 'right radicals' phenomenon i.e. those who strongly opposed the Hungarian Soviet Republic but who felt that the mainstream conservatives were not strong enough to cope with the shift to communism. An extreme group of these radicals within the army formed around Gyula Gömbös in Szeged and in 1919 solidified as MOVE (or the Szeged Fascists) as they were more commonly known. Already self identifying as 'national socialists' in 1919, the group called for changes in land ownership, a more Christian economic policy against the capitalism which they identified as Jewish and a foreign policy based on revanchism. The group was led by the likes of László Endre and Gyula Gömbös, although it was forced underground in 1937 when rumours circulated that it was planning a coup.\n\nWhen Miklós Horthy ousted the communists MOVE was largely turned over to him, although it continued to develop along fascist lines, offering support for Benito Mussolini and establishing contacts with Adolf Hitler and Erich Ludendorff in Germany. Under Horthy MOVE enjoyed a final period of influence as all existing Nazi and rightist paramilitary groups were merged into it.\n\nIn 1945, MOVE was banned under decree 529/1945, ME regulation, §3.\n\nIn the summer of 2007 a group calling itself the \"Hungarian National Defence Association\" was formed with similar goals to the original. The association soon split in half with the paramilitary branch operating independently. The paramilitary branch is known as \"Véderő\" for short. It was led by Tamás Eszes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4751083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4751083", "title": "Institutionalized discrimination", "text": "Institutionalized discrimination\n\nInstitutionalized discrimination refers to the unjust and discriminatory mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals by society and its institutions as a whole, through unequal selection or bias, intentional or unintentional; as opposed to individuals making a conscious choice to discriminate. It stems from systemic stereotypical beliefs (such as sexist or racist beliefs) that are held by the vast majority living in a society where stereotypes and discrimination are the norm (see institutionalized racism).\nSuch discrimination is typically codified into the operating procedures, policies, laws, or objectives of such institutions. Members of minority groups such as populations of African descent in the U.S. are at a much higher risk of encountering these types of sociostructural disadvantage. Among the severe and long-lasting detrimental effects of institutionalized discrimination on affected populations are increased suicide rates, suppressed attainment of wealth and decreased access to health care.\n\nExamples of institutionalized discrimination include laws and decisions that reflect racism, such as the \"Plessy vs. Ferguson\" U.S. Supreme Court case. The verdict of this case ruled in favor of separate but equal public facilities between African Americans and non-African Americans. This ruling was struck down by the \"Brown vs. Board of Education\" Supreme Court decision. Institutionalized discrimination often exists within the government, though it can also occur in any other type of social institution including religion, education and marriage. Achievement gaps in education \"per se\" are an example of institutionalized discrimination. Two recent studies aimed to explain the complications of assessing educational progress within the United States. One study focused on high school graduation rates, whereas the other study compared dropout rates in suburban and urban schools. By taking a closer look at statistics of test scores and academic achievement, researchers noticed that wealthy whites do better than blacks, poor whites, and Latinos. According to Star Parker, reporter of the \"Durham Herald Sun\", graduation rates among whites and Asians are about 25 percent higher than those of minority groups (blacks, Hispanics, American Indians). This signifies that academic achievement is linked to socioeconomic status.\n\nInstitutionalized discrimination also exists in institutions aside from the government such as religion, education, and marriage among many other. Routines that encourage the selection of one individual over another, for instance in an employment situation, is a form of institutionalized discrimination. The phenomenon occurs unintentionally at times.\n\nThomas Shapiro’s \"The Hidden Cost of Being African American\" addresses many of the problems faced by African Americans in the United States and how their current social and economic situations compare to one another. These issues include the racial wealth gap between blacks and whites, assets, and education. Housing in the United States is valued differently based on the racial makeup of the neighborhood. There can be two identical houses in terms of amenities and size but the value of each house depends on the racial makeup of the people within the community. Tactics like blockbusting, a method where real estate agents survey white homeowners in an area can cause a shift in the composition of a neighborhood. Although the concept of blockbusting has been illegal since 1968 unintentional segregation continues to define neighborhoods today. \n\nThe Cedar Grove Institute for Sustainable Communities has developed a plan to fight institutionalized discrimination in the Mebane, North Carolina area, and included minorities in local planning that have historically been excluded rendering them insufficient police and fire protection. Their land values are lower than others leading to zoning for schools and other related issues. \n\nAs community boundaries are not visible, a mapping process from the Geographical Information System (GIS) divides it. It combines several types of information into a single picture. The base map is physical features (roads, city limits, county boundaries) onto which other variables (e.g. race, income, water service, etc.). If needed, the processing system can also show other types of economic variables to draw conclusions about the area. Once the individuals begin to understand this information and realize what is happening to them, they have the power to hold the government accountable and can fight back against the institutionalized discrimination.\n\n"}
{"id": "45448600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45448600", "title": "Inter Tribal Council", "text": "Inter Tribal Council\n\nThe Inter Tribal Council (ITC) is a Brazilian indigenous peoples NGO founded in 1991. They believe that the first step to fighting discrimination is to ensure access to peoples' rights to health, education, opportunity and cultural dialogue as well as their rights to their lands. They participated in the drafting of UN initiatives on indigenous peoples inclusion in the information society. They also organized the Jogos dos Povos Indígenas, or Indigenous Peoples' Games, in Brazil, the parallel Indigenous Social Forum, and the first World Indigenous Games, to be held in Brazil in 2015. They participated in the Convention on Biological Diversity COP 8 Conference in Curitiba, Brazil, and in 2006 they participated in the I Regional Conference of the Americas against Racism and Racial Discrimination and against All Forms of Discrimination and Intolerance in Brasilia.\n"}
{"id": "20032447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20032447", "title": "Jewish Anti-Zionist League", "text": "Jewish Anti-Zionist League\n\nJewish Anti-Zionist League (, , translit. \"ar-rabita al-israiliya li-mukafahat as-sahyuniya\") was a political organization in Egypt. The organization had branches in Alexandria and Cairo. The League conducted militant agitations in the Jewish neighbourhoods of Cairo.\n\nThe League was formed in the summer of 1946 by Jewish members of the underground communist \"Iskra\" movement. The founding Secretary of the Jewish Anti-Zionist League was Ezra Harari. Other members of the founding committee of the League were Marcel Israel, Edward Mataloun, Hanzin Kasfelt and Edward Levy. Immediately after the founding of the organization, the members of the founding committee were arrested. \n\nIn April 1947 a violent clash erupted as between the League and Zionists, as disputes erupted over the election to the leadership in the Dahir Maccabi club. A slate of Zionist candidates won the election as result of manipulations and when the members of the Jewish Anti-Zionist League challenged the election outcome, the new club leadership called in police. In the clash, police forces sided with the Zionists and arrested the communists (considering the communists as a greater threat to public security than the Zionists). After the clash the communists reported the incident to the Wafdist newspaper \"Sawt al-Ummah\".\n\nOn May 24, 1947, conflict again erupted at the Dahir Maccabi club, as Zionists refused the communists access to the building to celebrate May Day. Two days later another clash erupted at the club between Zionists and Jewish communists. Following these events, the League issued an editorial stating that Jewish schools were used for Zionist propaganda and that sports clubs used for Zionist organizing rather than sports activities.\n\nThe ambitions of the Jewish Anti-Zionist League were twofold. On one hand, it sought to counter the Zionist influence within the Jewish community in Egypt. On the other hand, it sought to clarify to the Egyptian public that not all Jews were Zionists.\n\nIn May 1947, the League had published a declaration, distributed in French and Arabic, condemning Zionism as a tool for British imperialism and called for Jewish-Arab unity. The latter part of the declaration read\nJewish Men! Jewish Women!\n\nZionism wants to throw us into a dangerous and hopeless adventure. Zionism contributes to making Palestine uninhabitable. Zionism wants to isolate us from the Egyptian people. Zionism is the enemy of the Jewish people.\n\nDown with Zionism!\nLong live the brotherhood of Jews and Arabs!\nLong live the Egyptian people!\n\nThe League argued that displaced European Jews should be given the possibility to return to their home countries or third country of their choice, rather than sending them to Palestine.It also claimed that only an independent democratic Palestine would be able to break the bonds of colonialism and safeguard the Jewish people. The organization condemned Zionist terrorist activity in Palestine.\n\nIn June 1947, the League was banned by the Egyptian Ministry for Social Affairs for \"reasons of public security\". Following the illegalization of the Jewish Anti-Zionist League, Harari founded the 'Forum Group'. The Forum Group was a Jewish anti-Zionist group within the Democratic Movement for National Liberation. According to contemporary British security reports, the Forum Group had a considerable following amongst the Jewish community in Cairo (Krämer does however question the accuracy of this estimate, stating that the group had a rather limited impact).\n\n"}
{"id": "20398264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20398264", "title": "Kirk Cameron", "text": "Kirk Cameron\n\nKirk Thomas Cameron (born October 12, 1970) is an American actor. He is known for his role as Mike Seaver on the ABC sitcom \"Growing Pains\" (1985–92), a role for which he was nominated for two Golden Globe Awards.\n\nAs a child actor, Cameron made several other television and film appearances through the 1980s and 1990s, including the films \"Like Father Like Son\" (1987) and \"Listen to Me\" (1989). In the 2000s, he portrayed Cameron \"Buck\" Williams in the \"Left Behind\" film series and Caleb Holt in the drama film \"Fireproof\" (2008). His 2014 film, \"Saving Christmas\", was panned by critics and peaked the IMDb Bottom 100 List within one month of its theatrical release.\n\nCameron is also an active Evangelical Christian, partnering with Ray Comfort in the evangelical ministry \"The Way of the Master\", and has co-founded The Firefly Foundation with his wife, actress Chelsea Noble.\n\nCameron was born in Panorama City, California, a suburb of Los Angeles. His parents are Barbara (née Bausmith) and Robert Cameron, a retired schoolteacher. He is the brother to Bridgette, Melissa, and actress Candace Cameron Bure, who is most notable for her role as D.J. Tanner on the television sitcom, \"Full House\". He went to school on the set of \"Growing Pains\", as opposed to public school. He graduated from high school at age 17 with high honors.\n\nCameron began acting at age nine, and his first job was in an advertisement for a breakfast cereal. His first starring role was at age 13, in the television series \"Two Marriages\". At this age, he appeared in several television shows and films. He became famous in 1985 after being cast as Mike Seaver in the ABC television sitcom \"Growing Pains\". In the series, Mike would eventually have a girlfriend named Kate MacDonald, played by Chelsea Noble, Cameron's future wife. Cameron subsequently became a teen heartthrob in the late 1980s, while appearing on the covers of several teen magazines, including \"Tiger Beat\", \"Teen Beat\", \"16\" and others. At the time, he was making $50,000 a week. He was also in a 60-second Pepsi commercial during Super Bowl XXIV.\n\nCameron also guest-starred in the 1988 \"Full House\" episode \"Just One of the Guys\", in which he played the cousin of D.J. Tanner, the role played by Cameron's sister, Candace.\n\nCameron went on to star in many films, including the 1987's \"Like Father Like Son\" (a body-switch comedy with Dudley Moore), which was a box office success. His next theatrical film, 1989's \"Listen to Me\", performed poorly at the box office. When \"Growing Pains\" ended in 1992, Cameron went on to star in The WB sitcom \"Kirk\" which premiered in 1995 and ended two years later. In \"Kirk\", Cameron played Kirk Hartman, a 24-year-old who has to raise his siblings. Cameron and Noble also worked together on \"Kirk\".\n\nCameron has since mostly left mainstream film and television, though a decade after \"Growing Pains\" ended, he starred in a television reunion film, \"The Growing Pains Movie\", in 2000, and another one, \"\", in 2004. Cameron reunited with the cast of \"Growing Pains\" for a CNN \"Larry King Live\" interview which aired on February 7, 2006, in conjunction with the Warner Bros. release of the complete first season of \"Growing Pains\" on DVD. Aside from this, Cameron has often worked in Christian-themed productions, among them the post-Rapture films \"\", \"\", and \"\", in which he plays Cameron \"Buck\" Williams. Cameron's wife Noble also starred in the film series, playing Hattie Durham. Cameron has worked with Cloud Ten Pictures, a company which produces Christian-themed films, and has starred in several of their films, including \"The Miracle of the Cards\".\n\nHe also appeared in the 2008 drama film, \"Fireproof\", which was produced by Sherwood Pictures. The film was created on a budget of $500,000, with Cameron as the lead actor, portraying Captain Caleb Holt. Though it was a low-budget film, the film grossed $33,415,129 and was a box office success. It was the highest grossing independent film of 2008.\n\nIn 2012, Cameron was the narrator and host of the documentary film \"\". On its opening day, March 27, 2012, \"Monumental\" grossed $28,340. The film stayed in theaters until May 20, 2012, grossing a total of $177,729.\n\nIn 2013, Cameron announced he would be the host of the film \"Unstoppable\" slated to premiere September 24, 2013. A trailer for the film was blocked on Facebook, with Cameron speculating that it was due to the film's religious content. Facebook has since removed the block, stating it was the result of a mistake by an automated system and a spam site previously registered at the same web address.\n\nIn 2014, Cameron starred in the Christian-themed comedy film \"Saving Christmas\". The film was panned by critics, winning the 2014 Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Picture and Worst Screenplay. Cameron also won the award for Worst Actor and Worst Screen Combo, which he won with \"his ego\".\n\nCameron currently partners with fellow evangelist Ray Comfort, training Christians in evangelism. Together, they founded the ministry of \"The Way of the Master\", which is best known for the television show of the same name that Cameron co-hosts, and which won the National Religious Broadcasters’ Best Program Award for two consecutive years. It also formerly featured a radio show known as \"The Way of the Master Radio\" with talk show host Todd Friel. The radio show was later canceled, and replaced with \"Wretched Radio\", hosted by Friel. Cameron, along with his wife, founded \"The Firefly Foundation\", which runs \"Camp Firefly\", a summer camp that gives terminally ill children and their families a free week's vacation.\n\nCameron and Comfort participated in a televised debate with atheists Brian Sapient and Kelly O'Conner of the Rational Response Squad, at Calvary Baptist Church, in Manhattan, on May 5, 2007. It was moderated by ABC's Martin Bashir and parts of it were aired on \"Nightline\". At issue was the existence of God, which Comfort stated he could prove scientifically, without relying on faith or the Bible. The audience was composed of both theists and atheists. Points of discussion included atheism and evolution. While Sapient contended during his arguments that Comfort violated the rules by talking about the Ten Commandments, Cameron later stated on \"The Way of the Master\" radio show that the rules of the debate did not say that the Bible could never be referenced, but rather that Comfort simply had to come up with one argument that did not reference the Bible or faith.\n\nIn November 2009 Cameron and others distributed free copies of an altered version of Charles Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\" on college campuses in the United States. The book consisted of Darwin's text with chapters of the book removed, and with an added introduction by Ray Comfort reiterating common creationist assertions about Darwin and evolution. The book was criticized by scientists and Darwin biographers who criticized the omission of key chapters of the book, and who stated that its introduction contains misinformation about Darwin, and long-refuted creationist arguments about the science of evolution, such as the linking of Nazi racial theories to Darwinist ideas. Comfort later said that the four chapters were chosen at random to be omitted in order to make the book small enough to be affordable as a giveaway, with the absent chapters available for download, but that the missing chapters were included in the second edition, which had a smaller text size that made printing the entire book as a giveaway affordable. The second edition still lacks Darwin's preface and glossary of terms. The National Center for Science Education arranged a campaign to distribute an analysis of the Comfort introduction and a banana bookmark at colleges across the U.S., a reference to Comfort's presentation of the banana as an argument for the existence of God.\n\nOn March 2, 2012, Cameron stated on CNN's \"Piers Morgan Tonight\", when asked about homosexuality, that it is \"...unnatural, it's detrimental and ultimately destructive to so many of the foundations of civilization\". Cameron's comments received criticism from GLAAD, and provoked a backlash from gay rights activists and Hollywood celebrities, including Roseanne Barr, Craig Ferguson, Jesse Tyler Ferguson, as well as \"Growing Pains\" co-stars Tracey Gold and Alan Thicke. Piers Morgan stated that Cameron was brave for expressing his opinion, \"however antiquated his beliefs may be\". He, however, received \"thousands of emails and comments\" from supporters. Rosie O'Donnell invited him to discuss his views on her talk show, but he declined and suggested a private dinner to discuss this topic personally.\n\nOn April 11, 2012 Cameron was honored by Indiana Wesleyan University, and inducted into their Society of World Changers during a ceremony in which he spoke on IWU's campus.\n\nCameron and his wife, fellow \"Growing Pains\" star Chelsea Noble, were married on July 21, 1991. They now have six children, four of whom were adopted: Jack (born 1996), Isabella (born 1997), Anna (born 1998), and Luke (born 2000); and two biological: Olivia (born 2001) and James (born 2003).\n\nCameron was an atheist in his early teens. When he was 17, during the height of his career on \"Growing Pains\", he became a born-again Christian.\n\nAfter converting to Protestant Christianity, he began to insist that storylines be edited to remove anything he thought too adult or inappropriate in \"Growing Pains\".\n\nAfter the series was cancelled, Cameron did not maintain contact with his former co-stars, and did not speak to Tracey Gold for eight years. Cameron has stated that this was not due to any animosity on his part toward any of his former cast-members, but an outgrowth of his desire to start a new life away from the entertainment industry, and the life he had been in for the previous seven years.\n\nPrior to the premiere of \"The Growing Pains Movie\" in 2000, for which the entire main cast reunited, Cameron described his regrets over how his relationship with his castmates changed after his religious conversion during production of the series, saying, \"I definitely kind of made an about-face, going toward another aspect of my life\", admits Cameron. \"I shifted my focus from 100% on the show, to 100% on [my new life], and left 0% on the show—and even the friendships that were a part of that show. If I could go back, I think I could make decisions that were less inadvertently hurtful to the cast—like talking and explaining to them why I just wanted to have my family at my wedding.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25082608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25082608", "title": "Lok Satta Movement", "text": "Lok Satta Movement\n\nLok Satta is a non-partisan movement for democratic reforms in the country of India, led by Dr. Jayaprakash Narayan, a former I. A. S. officer and renowned activist from Andhra Pradesh, India. The movement was started in 1996 with the founding of Lok Satta, a non-governmental organization. In 2006, the movement transformed into Lok Satta Party.\n\nThe group declared to form a political party and contest in the upcoming elections. Though the movement initially started in Andhra Pradesh, it later spread across the country. Dr. Jayaprakash Narayan says that democracy is for the people, of the people and by the people. Lok Satta is a registered society whose membership is open and available to all Indians. It has district branches and neighbourhood units spread all over Andhra Pradesh. It has over 250,000 members in the state and over 30,000 in the Greater Hyderabad region. While Lok Satta's goals are governance reforms in India, its organizational spread is largely in Andhra Pradesh.\n\nApart from creating India’s largest base for a people’s movement in Andhra Pradesh, Lok Satta is now deeply engaged in building a viable national platform for democratic reforms through building alliances in major states and promoting local initiatives, and building an effective and highly credible coalition at the national level specifically for electoral reforms. It has also launched its political party arm in October 2007, which has met with reasonable success.\n\n\n\nAccording to Lok Satta, the specific reforms derived from the above generic principles must be in conformity with the following basic principles of democracy:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52063428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52063428", "title": "Marriage Alliance", "text": "Marriage Alliance\n\nThe Marriage Alliance is an Australian lobby group based in Sydney, New South Wales which supports the definition of marriage between a man and a woman as found in the Marriage Amendment Act 2004 . According to the group's website, it \"is an independent alliance bringing together individuals and organisations supporting a common cause. We exist to voice the opinion of the silent majority of Australians that respect same-sex attracted people, but do not want to change the current definition of marriage.\" They campaign against same-sex marriage.\n\nIn November 2018 the group rebranded as \"Binary Australia\" with the stated aim to “carry on the fight for traditional values that celebrate the inherent differences between boys and girls, men and women”.\n\nMarriage Alliance partnered with the Coalition for Marriage and other groups opposed to same-sex marriage, to campaign for a 'No' vote in the 2017 Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey.\n\nThey have conducted an extensive and controversial anti-gay marriage campaign in the media and on social media:\n\nThey have also\n\nAustralia\nUSA\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51171966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51171966", "title": "Mothers of the Movement", "text": "Mothers of the Movement\n\nMothers of the Movement is a group of women whose African American children have been killed by the police or by gun violence.Members of the group have appeared on various television shows, at award ceremonies, and political events to share their experiences losing a son or daughter to police violence and advocate for political change.The Mothers of the Movement started as a result of the 2013 acquittal of George Zimmerman after he fatally shot and killed Trayvon Martin. The women(who all have had children killed by police brutally) have attended many conventions to spread awareness of the crisis that is police brutality in the United States. They are using their grief to rally involvement in communities and highlight the injustice they've endured with the lost of their children's lives. They also talk about life after loss, the five stages of grief( denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance), and how to move forward after a traumatic event.\n\nSeven women from the group—Gwen Carr, mother of Eric Garner; Sybrina Fulton, mother of Trayvon Martin; Maria Hamilton, mother of Dontre Hamilton; Lucy McBath, mother of Jordan Davis; Lezley McSpadden, mother of Michael Brown, Cleopatra Pendleton-Cowley, mother of Hadiya Pendleton; and Geneva Reed-Veal, mother of Sandra Bland—spoke in support of Clinton's candidacy for President during the July 2016 Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. Clinton had reached out privately the previous November to meet with the women. The Mothers of the Movement subsequently joined Clinton on the campaign trail to support her candidacy and advocate for an end to these killings.\n\nSamaria Rice, the mother of Tamir Rice, did not join the other mothers in their endorsement of Hillary Clinton. She did not see an acceptable level of commitment against police brutality from any of the candidates and therefore withheld her endorsement. She did support the other mothers, saying in an interview with Fusion, \"I hope they going to hold her accountable for whatever discussions they had behind closed doors.\"\n\nThe Mothers of the Movement have been criticized for being used by the Clinton campaign, but members deny this claim.\n\nMothers of the Movement accompanied singer and actress Janelle Monae appearing at the Women's March on Washington on January 21, 2017 after the inauguration of President Donald Trump.\n\nIn August 2016, several members appeared with Beyoncé at the Video Music Awards. Gwen Carr, Lezley McSpadden, and Sybrina Fulton had also appeared in the singer's short film \"LEMONADE,\" accompanying her 2016 album of the same name, holding photos of their slain sons.\n\nWomen from the Mothers of the Movement group appeared on \"The Dr. Oz Show\" special episode entitled, \"Healing America’s Grief: Mothers of The Movement And Mothers of Slain Officers Together For The First Time,\" which appeared on air September 12, 2016. The show featured the mothers of victims of police violence as well as mothers of police officers killed by civilians. Guests of the show included Sybrina Fulton, Lucy McBath, Geneva Reed-Veal, Cleopatra Cowley, Maria Hamilton, Samara Rice, Lesley McSpadden, Wanda Johnson, Gwen Carr, Valerie Zamarripa, Paulette Thompson, and Nancy Renninger. Both groups spoke about losing a son or daughter to violence and as well as the difficulties of grieving in public. Additionally, Reed-Veal explained the need for more global conversations about racism and violence.\n\nGwen Carr, Sybrina Fulton, and Lezley McSpadden spoke at the 2016 Triumph Awards, a joint venture by National Action Network and TV One to recognize distinguished individuals and corporations in civil rights, the arts, entertainment, education, business and sports who have made a positive impact on society by utilizing their talents and resources to help under-resourced communities. The ceremony was hosted at the Tabernacle Theater in Atlanta and aired on Sunday, Oct. 2, 2016, at 7 p.m. EDT.\n\n"}
{"id": "44931624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44931624", "title": "My Brother's Keeper Challenge", "text": "My Brother's Keeper Challenge\n\nMy Brother's Keeper Challenge is a public-private partnership of the United States Federal Government to promote intervention by civic leaders in the lives of young men of color to address their unique challenges and to promote racial justice. The program was initiated in 2014 with sponsorship of the White House, the United States Department of Education, and the National Convening Council. The initiative has obtained pledges by non-profit organizations of $200 million over five years. The initiative is intended to be a call to action for mayors, Native American tribal leaders, county executives, and other municipal leaders to address persistent opportunity gaps for young men of color and help them reach their potential.\n\nThe partnership was expanded one-year after program launch with $100 million in additional funding from private entities. Private partners include, but are not limited to: College Board, Citi Foundation, AT&T, Discovery Communications, and Emerson Collective. Youth Guidance's Becoming a Man program is an example of a recipient of funding from the My Brother's Keeper Challenge. The Boys of Color Collaboration is another example, pooling scholars from several universities with backing of the My Brother's Keeper Challenge.\n\nThe White House issued a one-year progress report on the My Brother's Keeper Challenge, illustrating the program's organization according to goals of state and local engagement, private sector action, and public policy review and reform. There is an official website for the program.\n"}
{"id": "42118405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42118405", "title": "National Restoration Party (Costa Rica)", "text": "National Restoration Party (Costa Rica)\n\nThe National Restoration Party (\"\" – PRN) is a political party in Costa Rica. It was founded in 2005 by Avendaño Calvo mostly by dissidents of Costa Rica's historical Christian party, Costa Rican Renewal, after its then only deputy,Avendaño Calvo, left. Avendaño would successfully return to Congress because of the party from 2010 to 2014. Even though he had personal differences with Justo Orozco (then the PRC's only deputy), both were able to work together in defending the same agenda, mainly the conservative views of the evangelical community. The party's candidate in the presidential election of 2014 was Avendaño, who received 1.35 percent of the vote.\n\nIn the same year's parliamentary election, Gerardo Fabricio Alvarado Muñoz, representing San José, was elected to the only seat in the Legislative Assembly that was won by the party.\n\nIn the 2018 Costa Rican general elections the party when it won 14 of the parliament seats and its presidential candidate, Fabricio Alvarado, went in to the runoff. According to the BBC, his campaign gained in popularity because of his opposition to same-sex marriage. The party also holds anti-inmigration positions and calls for closed borders and harsher controls on migrants.\n\nIn March 2018, the newspaper \"Semanario Universidad\" reported that high figures of the party had billed several million colones for professional services for participating in their own campaign such as the beneficiaries' own candidate, Fabricio Alvarado, his wife, his brothers, his two vice-presidential nominees, two sons, and the ex-wife of the party president, . It was later discovered that one of the beneficiaries, the son of Avendaño, had received professional services for working for the party while he was incapacitated by health from his official work at the Costa Rican Institute of Electricity. In May 2018, it was reported that the party had hired the polling company OPol, according to financial reports submitted to the Supreme Electoral Tribunal. Although party officials originally reported that they were political consultancies unrelated to the polls, subsequent investigations by the newspaper \"La Nación\" discovered a contract for the payment of the six surveys that were conducted during the second round campaign, five of which were published and all of which Alvarado appeared as frontrunner by a large margin. Previously, the pollster had already been in controversy after it was reported on social networks that a company vehicle driven by director Mauricio Muñoz, had carried party flags.\n\nIn late May, Avendaño himself filed a complaint with the Supreme Electoral Tribunal for what he called a \"parallel structure\" made up of the campaign team of the candidate for hiring outside the ethical controls stipulated by the party that would have been the one that negotiated those and other payments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5691734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5691734", "title": "Nós–Unidade Popular", "text": "Nós–Unidade Popular\n\nNós–Unidade Popular (\"We–People's Unity\") was a Galician left-wing Galician independentist political party. It was formed by the merger of Assembleia da Mocidade Independentista, Primeira Linha and other organizations. Nós–UP never gained any institutional representation. The party announced its self-dissolution in June 2015.\n\nIn 2004, the party contested the European Parliamentary elections, obtaining 1,331 votes in Galicia (0.12%) and 2,516 votes in Spain. In the Galician elections of 2005, 1,749 votes (0.1%) were obtained. In 2005, the party organized a campaign to eliminate symbolic vestiges of Francoist rule from Galicia, presenting their concerns to the Xunta de Galicia. During some demonstrations associated with this campaign, Nós-UP party members were arrested. The current leader is .\n\n"}
{"id": "51170930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51170930", "title": "Patricia Clavin", "text": "Patricia Clavin\n\nPatricia M. Clavin, is a British historian and academic, who specialises in international relations and 20th century history. She is Professor of International History at the University of Oxford, and a fellow and tutor in history at Jesus College, Oxford.\n\nClavin studied Modern History at King's College London, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree and a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree.\n\nBefore moving to Oxford, Clavin was Reader in Modern History at Keele University. In October 2003, she was elected a Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford and appointed a university lecturer in modern history at the University of Oxford. In 2011, she was granted a Title of Distinction as \"Professor of International History\".\n\nIn 2015, Clavin was awarded the British Academy Medal for her book, \"Securing The World Economy: The Reinvention of the League of Nations 1920-1946\"; the medals are awarded each year to up to three people \"for landmark academic achievement in any of the humanities and social science disciplines supported by the Academy\". In July 2016, she was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the UK's national academy for the humanities and the social sciences. She is also a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (FRHistS), and a Foreign Member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\n"}
{"id": "13607862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13607862", "title": "Pentarchy of 1933", "text": "Pentarchy of 1933\n\nPentarchy of 1933, formally known as the Executive Commission of the Provisional Government of Cuba, was a coalition that ruled Cuba from September 5 to September 10, 1933 after Gerardo Machado was deposed on August 12, 1933. Prior to the Pentarchy, General Alberto Herrera (August 12–13, 1933) and Carlos Manuel de Céspedes y Quesada (August 13 - September 5, 1933) served as President of Cuba.\n\nThe members of the Pentarchy were:\n\nThe first thing the Pentarchy did was to draft a proclamation which was written by Sergio Carbó and signed by eighteen civilians and one military man, Fulgencio Batista. That proclamation was published in every Cuban newspaper the following day. Carbó later promoted Batista from a sergeant to colonel without notifying the other four. Later they were ousted by the Student Directory and Ramón Grau was named president.\n\nU.S. ambassador to Cuba Sumner Welles noted in a telegram to the Secretary of State that late at night on September 6, 1933, Dr. Horacio Ferrer, Secretary of War in the Carlos Manuel de Céspedes y Quesada Cabinet, called to see him. He advised the ambassador that he was in contact with sergeants in control of the Fortress La Cabaña who advised Ferrer that they were deceived in participating in the mutiny and that they were prepared to make any reparation for their action. Ferrer's plan would be as follows, after taking some preliminary measures, Ferrer, accompanied with 80 loyal officers would proceed on September 8, 1933 to the Fortress La Cabaña with President Cespedes and several other members of his Cabinet and that on early morning September 9, 1933, Ferrer would proclaim the support of the Fortress to the legitimate Government of President Cespedes. Ferrer would then ask the ambassador whether “\"should this action be taken, and should Cespedes Government make such request the Government of the United States would be willing to land troops from the battleships now due to arrive at Cojimar immediately to the east of Cabaña Fortress, in order to assist the Cespedes Government in maintaining order\".”\n\nSumner Welles himself supported Ferrer and advised Washington of the following: \"\"What I propose would be a strictly limited intervention of the following nature...entail the landing of a consider force at Havana and lesser forces in certain of the more important ports of the Republic\".\"`\n\nThe Franklin Delano Roosevelt administration was reluctant, however, to any form of direct military intervention as noted in the following telegram in response to Sumner Welles's telegram proposing the \"limited intervention.\" The Secretary of State, Cordell Hull on September 7, 1933 at 8pm noted as follows to Sumner Welles, \"\"Your 206 September 6, noon. We fully appreciate the various viewpoints set forth in your telegram. However, after mature consideration, the President has decided to send you the following message:\n\n\"\"We feel very strongly that any promise, implied or otherwise, relating to what the United States will do under any circumstances is impossible; that it would be regarded as a breach of neutrality, as favoring one faction out of many, as attempting to set up a government which would be regarded by the whole world, and especially throughout Latin America, as a creation and creature of the American government...strict neutrality is of the essence\".\"\n\nIn addition to Dr. Ferrer's attempt overthrow the new revolutionary government, there was also the Cuban Army on behalf of Batista seeking to make back-deals with Cespedes. As reported by Sumner Welles to the U.S. Secretary of State on September 9, 1933, \" \"A commission of sergeants visited [former] President Carlos Manuel de Cespedes y Quesada this morning in his house to inform him that Colonel, former Sergeant, Fulgencio Batista was willing to support his restoration to the Presidency provided President Cespedes would confirm him in his position as Colonel and Chief of Staff of the Army and guarantee his safety and that of his associates in this mutiny. President Cespedes stated that he was unwilling to make any commitments whatever as to what would be done provided he was reinstated in power\".\"\n"}
{"id": "1999119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1999119", "title": "Plastic recycling", "text": "Plastic recycling\n\nPlastic recycling is the process of recovering scrap or waste plastic and reprocessing the material into useful products. Since the vast majority of plastic is non-biodegradable, recycling is a part of global efforts to reduce plastic in the waste stream, especially the approximately 8 million tons of waste plastic that enters the Earth's ocean every year.\n\nCompared with lucrative recycling of metal, and similar to the low value of glass, plastic polymers recycling is often more challenging because of low density and low value. There are also numerous technical hurdles to overcome when recycling plastic.\n\nWhen different types of plastics are melted together, they tend to phase-separate, like oil and water, and set in these layers. The phase boundaries cause structural weakness in the resulting material, meaning that polymer blends are useful in only limited applications. The two most widely manufactured plastics, polypropylene and polyethylene, behave this way, which limits their utility for recycling. Recently, the use of block copolymers as \"molecular stitches\" or \"macromolecular welding flux\" has been proposed to overcome the difficulties associated with phase separation during recycling.\n\nThe percentage of plastic that can be fully recycled, rather than downcycled or go to waste, can be increased when manufacturers of packaged goods minimize mixing of packaging materials and eliminate contaminants. The Association of Plastics Recyclers have issued a \"Design Guide for Recyclability\".\n\nThe use of biodegradable plastics is increasing. Tips for efficient plastic recycling: keep the caps of bottles on, crush containers, check the plastic resin code, and recycle on the go. Today, there are many places available where people can recycle plastic products.\n\nBefore recycling, most plastics are sorted according to their resin type. In the past, plastic reclaimers used the resin identification code (RIC), a method of categorization of polymer types, which was developed by the Society of the Plastics Industry in 1988. Polyethylene terephthalate, commonly referred to as PET, for instance, has a resin code of 1. Most plastic reclaimers do not rely on the RIC now; they use automatic sort systems to identify the resin, ranging from manual sorting and picking of plastic materials to mechanized automation processes that involve shredding, sieving, separation by rates of density i.e. air, liquid, or magnetic, and complex spectrophotometric distribution technologies e.g. UV/VIS, NIR, Laser, etc. Some plastic products are also separated by color before they are recycled. The plastic recyclables are then shredded. These shredded fragments then undergo processes to eliminate impurities like paper labels. This material is melted and often extruded into the form of pellets which are then used to manufacture other products.\n\nPlastic pyrolysis can convert petroleum-based waste streams such as plastics into fuels and carbons.\n\nGiven below is the list of suitable plastic raw materials for pyrolysis:\n\nHeat compression takes all unsorted, cleaned plastic in all forms, from soft plastic bags to hard industrial waste, and mixes the load in tumblers (large rotating drums resembling giant clothes dryers). The most obvious benefit to this method is that all plastic is recyclable, not just matching forms. However, criticism rises from the energy costs of rotating the drums, and heating the post-melt pipes.\n\nFor some waste plastics, technical devices called recyclebots enable a form of distributed recycling. Preliminary life-cycle analysis(LCA) indicates that such distributed recycling of HDPE to make filament of 3-D printers in rural regions is energetically favorable to either using virgin resin or conventional recycling processes because of reductions in transportation energy\n\nA process has also been developed in which many kinds of plastic can be used as a carbon source in the recycling of scrap steel. There is also a possibility of mixed recycling of different plastics, which does not require their separation. It is called compatibilization and requires use of special chemical bridging agents compatibilizers. It can help to keep the quality of recycled material and to skip often expensive and inefficient preliminary scanning of waste plastics streams and their separation/purification.\n\nPost-consumer polyethylene terephthalate (PET or PETE) containers are sorted into different color fractions and baled for onward sale. PET recyclers further sort the baled bottles and they are washed and flaked (or flaked and then washed). Non-PET fractions such as caps and labels are removed during this process. The clean flake is dried. Further treatment can take place e.g. melt filtering and pelletizing or various treatments to produce food-contact-approved recycled PET (RPET).\n\nRPET has been widely used to produce polyester fibres. This sorted post-consumer PET waste is crushed, chopped into flakes, pressed into bales, and offered for sale.\n\nOne use for this recycled PET is to create fabrics to be used in the clothing industry. The fabrics are created by spinning the PET flakes into thread and yarn. This is done just as easily as creating polyester from brand new PET. The recycled PET thread or yarn can be used either alone or together with other fibers to create a very wide variety of fabrics. Traditionally these fabrics are used to create strong, durable, rough products, such as jackets, coats, shoes, bags, hats, and accessories since they are usually too rough for direct skin contact and can cause irritation. However, these types of fabrics have become more popular as a result of the public's growing awareness of environmental issues. Numerous fabric and clothing manufacturers have capitalized on this trend.\n\nOther major outlets for RPET are new containers (food-contact or non-food-contact) produced either by (injection stretch blow) moulding into bottles and jars or by thermoforming APET sheet to produce clamshells, blister packs and collation trays. These applications used 46% of all RPET produced in Europe in 2010. Other applications, such as strapping tape, injection-moulded engineering components and building materials, account for 13% of the 2010 RPET production.\n\nIn the United States, the recycling rate for PET packaging was 31.2% in 2013, according to a report from The National Association for PET Container Resources (NAPCOR) and The Association of Postconsumer Plastic Recyclers (APR). A total of 1,798 million pounds was collected and 475 million pounds of recycled PET used out of a total of 5,764 million pounds of PET bottles.\n\nPlastic #2, high-density polyethylene (HDPE) is a commonly recycled plastic. HDPE's highly crystalline structure makes it a strong, high density, moderately stiff plastic. HDPE Thermoplastic materials become liquid at their melting point - around 130 degrees Celsius. A major benefit of thermoplastics is that they can be heated to melting point, cooled, and reheated again without significant degradation. Instead of burning, thermoplastics like PE (Polyethylene) liquefy, allowing them to be easily extruded or [injection molded] and turned into brand new [HDPE pipe]. Often it is typically downcycled into plastic lumber, tables, roadside curbs, benches, truck cargo liners, trash receptacles, stationery (e.g. rulers) and other durable plastic products and is usually in demand .\n\nMost polystyrene products are not recycled due to the lack of incentive to invest in the compactors and logistical systems required. As a result, manufacturers cannot obtain sufficient scrap. Expanded polystyrene (EPS) scrap can easily be added to products such as EPS insulation sheets and other EPS materials for construction applications. When it is not used to make more EPS, foam scrap can be turned into clothes hangers, park benches, flower pots, toys, rulers, stapler bodies, seedling containers, picture frames, and architectural molding from recycled PS.\n\nRecycled EPS is also used in many metal casting operations. Rastra is made from EPS that is combined with cement to be used as an insulating amendment in the making of concrete foundations and walls. Since 1993, American manufacturers have produced insulating concrete forms made with approximately 80% recycled EPS.\n\nThe white plastic polystyrene foam peanuts used as packing material are often accepted by shipping stores for reuse.\n\nSuccessful trials in Israel have shown that plastic films recovered from mixed municipal waste streams can be recycled into useful household products such as buckets.\n\nSimilarly, agricultural plastics such as mulch film, drip tape and silage bags are being diverted from the waste stream and successfully recycled into much larger products for industrial applications such as plastic composite railroad ties. Historically, these agricultural plastics have primarily been either landfilled or burned on-site in the fields of individual farms.\n\nCNN reports that Dr. S. Madhu of the Kerala Highway Research Institute, India, has formulated a road surface that includes recycled plastic: aggregate, bitumen (asphalt) with plastic that has been shredded and melted at a temperature below 220 degrees C (428 °F) to avoid pollution. This road surface is claimed to be very durable and monsoon rain resistant. The plastic is sorted by hand, which is economical in India. The test road used 60 kg of plastic for an approximately 500-metre-long, 8-metre-wide, two-lane road. The process chops thin-film road-waste into a light fluff of tiny flakes that hot-mix plants can uniformly introduce into viscous bitumen with a customized dosing machine. Tests at both Bangalore and the Indian Road Research Centre indicate that roads built using this 'KK process' will have longer useful lives and better resistance to cold, heat, cracking, and rutting, by a factor of three.\n\nThe quantity of post-consumer plastics recycled has increased every year since at least 1990, but rates lag far behind those of other items, such as newspaper (about 80%) and corrugated fiberboard (about 70%). Overall, U.S. post-consumer plastic waste for 2008 was estimated at 33.6 million tons; 2.2 million tons (6.5%) were recycled and 2.6 million tons (7.7%) were burned for energy; 28.9 million tons, or 85.5%, were discarded in landfills.\n\nAs of 2015, approximately 6300 million tons of plastic waste had been generated, around 9% of which had been recycled, 12% was incinerated, and 79% was accumulated in landfills or the natural environment. In 2016 only 14% of plastic waste was recycled globally.\n\nJapan's plastic waste utilization rate stood at 83% in 2014, up from 73% in 2006 and 39% in 1996, according to the nation's Plastic Waste Management Institute.\n\nIn 2008, the price of PET dropped from $370/ton in the US to $20 in November. PET prices had returned to their long-term averages by May 2009.\n\nSeven groups of plastic polymers, each with specific properties, are used worldwide for packaging applications (see table below). Each group of plastic polymer can be identified by its plastic identification code (PIC), usually a number or a letter abbreviation. For instance, low-density polyethylene can be identified by the number \"4\" or the letters \"LDPE\". The PIC appears inside a three-chasing-arrow recycling symbol. The symbol is used to indicate whether the plastic can be recycled into new products.\n\nThe PIC was introduced by the Society of the Plastics Industry, Inc., to provide a uniform system for the identification of various polymer types and to help recycling companies separate various plastics for reprocessing. Manufacturers of plastic products are required to use PIC labels in some countries/regions and can voluntarily mark their products with the PIC where there are no requirements. Consumers can identify the plastic types based on the codes usually found at the base or at the side of the plastic products, including food/chemical packaging and containers. The PIC is usually not present on packaging films, since it is not practical to collect and recycle most of this type of waste.\n\nLow national plastic recycling rates have been due to the complexity of sorting and processing, unfavorable economics, and consumer confusion about which plastics can actually be recycled. Part of the confusion has been due to the use of the resin identification code which is not on all plastic parts but just a subset that includes the recycling symbol as part of its design. The resin identification code is stamped or printed on the bottom of containers and surrounded by a triangle of arrows. (See the table in Plastic.) The intent of these symbols was to make it easier to identify the type of plastics used to make a particular container and to indicate that the plastic is potentially recyclable. The question that remains is which types of plastics can be recycled by local recycling centers. In many communities, not all types of plastics are accepted for sidewalk recycling collection programs due to the high processing costs and complexity of the equipment required to recycle certain materials. There is also sometimes a seemingly low demand for the recycled product depending on a recycling center's proximity to entities seeking recycled materials. Another major barrier is that the cost to recycle certain materials and the corresponding market price for those materials sometimes does not present any opportunity for profit. The best example of this is polystyrene (commonly called styrofoam), although some communities, like Brookline, Massachusetts, are moving toward banning the distribution of polystyrene containers by local food and coffee businesses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5286988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5286988", "title": "Potassium adipate", "text": "Potassium adipate\n\nPotassium adipate is a compound with formula KCHO. It is the potassium salt of adipic acid.\n\nIt has E number \"E357\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10887753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10887753", "title": "Prisoner transport", "text": "Prisoner transport\n\nPrisoner transport is the transportation of prisoners by law enforcement agencies or contractors.\n\nIn order to extradite a suspected or convicted criminal from one jurisdiction to another, a rendition aircraft may be used, although the high cost involved means that it is normally used only to transport the most dangerous of prisoners; more commonly, a person being extradited would simply be put onto a commercial airliner, albeit escorted by law enforcement officers.\n\nPrisoner transport is risky due to the fact the dangerous inmates are being temporarily brought into the public along with the civilian population. Specially designed prisoner transport vehicles are used to fulfill security requirements. Many inmates see this time as an opportunity to escape. Some inmates prepare for escape during transport by bringing along tiny objects (e.g. paper clips that can be used to pick the locks of their handcuffs prior to escape from the vehicles.\n\nLaw enforcement agencies, aware of this, often take extra security measures on inmates being transported, especially those who are more prone to escape or violence. This includes additional forms of restraint on the bodies, more secure vehicles, and escorts from additional law enforcement agents. Many transports are started at night to minimize the chance of harm to civilians.\n\nAs a safeguard against escape, prisoners are routinely placed in physical restraints for transport. The type of restraints used depends on the security level of the prisoners and may vary from department to department. As a rule, most prisoners will have to wear at least handcuffs as a minimum restraint. Often, a belly chain is added so that the prisoner's hands are shackled to the waist. Leather or nylon belts may be used instead of belly chains. To prevent the prisoner from manipulating the keyhole of the handcuffs, for instance if he or she gets hold of a handcuff key or a lockpick, a handcuff cover may be placed around the handcuffs. The additional precaution of leg irons may also be taken, particularly if the prisoner will be walking outside of a secure area. When a prisoner is shackled at his or her hands, legs and around his or her waist, this is commonly known as being placed in \"full restraints\".Specific prisoner transport restraints (e.g. Smith & Wesson model 1850 \"transport restraint\") are combinations which consist of a pair of handcuffs, attached by a longer chain to a pair of leg irons. When being placed in such transport restraints, the prisoner will still have the possibility to manage normal steps, but is prevented from running by the leg irons. The connecting chain also prevents the prisoner from lifting his or her arms. For transporting prisoners by car, special combinations called \"auto restraint\" are used where the chains of the leg irons as well as the connecting chains are shortened, allowing the prisoner only a stooping shuffling walk when he or she is outside the car.\n\nIn addition to restraints, a Stun belt may be fastened around the prisoner's waist for further control. In the event of the prisoner attempting to escape or attack someone, the escorting officers can activate the belt via a remote control to give the subject an electric shock.\n\nWhen going on a transport, prisoners will in most cases have to wear a Prison uniform to make them instantly identifiable. Sometimes, special high-visibility jackets are added for enhanced security.\n\n"}
{"id": "33522023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33522023", "title": "Reconciliation of European Histories Group", "text": "Reconciliation of European Histories Group\n\nThe Reconciliation of European Histories Group is an informal all-party group in the European Parliament involved in promoting the Prague Process in all of Europe, aimed at coming to terms with the totalitarian past in many countries of Europe. The group is chaired by former European Commissioner Sandra Kalniete and comprises members of the European People's Party, the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats, The Greens–European Free Alliance, the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, Europe of Freedom and Democracy, and the European Conservatives and Reformists. As of 2011, the group had 40 members, including Sandra Kalniete, Hans-Gert Pöttering (Chairman of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation and former President of the European Parliament), László Tőkés (Vice President of the European Parliament), Heidi Hautala (former Chair of the Subcommittee on Human Rights), and Gunnar Hökmark (Chairman of the European Friends of Israel). The group has co-hosted a number of public hearings and other meetings in the European Parliament on totalitarianism and communist crimes in Eastern and Central Europe. The Reconciliation of European Histories Group also cooperates closely with the Working Group on the Platform of European Memory and Conscience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56396498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56396498", "title": "Robin Grove-White", "text": "Robin Grove-White\n\nRobin Grove-White (born Dublin, 1941) is an Anglo-Irish Welsh environmentalist, and academic, Emeritus Professor of Environment and Society at Lancaster University. Grove-White Chairs the board of the Institute for Study of Welsh Estates (ISWE) at Bangor University. He is also involved in local organisations such as Menter Mechell, Cymdeithas Hanes Mechell and is vice chair of the Anglesey Antiquarian Society. In 2018 he was awarded an honorary fellowship for Services to the Community at Bangor University \n\nGrove-White was born in Dublin and raised on Anglesey, Wales, the son of William Grove-White, descended from the Bulkeley family of landowners and residing at Brynddu (rebuilt 1690) near Llanfechell. From 1963-1968 he became a freelance scriptwriter, for the television series TW3 (That Was the Week that Was), a satirical programme hosted by David Frost and featuring Ned Sherrin, Willie Rushton and Lance Percival. Other work was in TV, radio, cabaret, film, and advertising in UK, US and Canada (including 'The Establishment' (London), 'The Frost programme' (ITV), 'Marty' (ITV), 'This Hour Has Seven Days' (CBCTV), 'Second City' (Chicago), and McCann-Erickson (Toronto & London). He was formerly married to the writer Virginia Ironside but remarried.\n\nIn his late 20s he returned to complete his degree at the University of Oxford in politics, economics and philosophy (Worcester College, 1971). This led him into rural protection and environmental campaigning with the Campaign for the Protection of Rural England (1972-1981, then Director, 1981-1987). He was Chair of the Board of Greenpeace UK until 2004.\n\nAfter a short spell at Imperial College he moved to Lancaster University in 1989 as a research fellow, eventually becoming Professor of Environment and Society. He established the Centre for the Study of Environmental Change (CSEC) in 1991, to focus on problems of contemporary environmental knowledge and policy development. The Centre now resides in the Sociology Department but it was highly active in environmental research, achieving a 5* research rating in the 1990s, with funding from the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), the Health and Safety Executive, and the European Environment Agency. Other important members and collaborators included Prof. Brian Wynne, Prof. Elizabeth Shove, Simon Shackley, Prof. Bron Szerszynski, Claire Waterton and Prof. Phil Macnaghten. He was a member of the Government’s Agriculture and Environment Biotechnology Commission.\n\nGrove-White retired in 2006 and moved back to the family farm in Llanfechell, Anglesey, initiating several environmental improvements. He completed a PhD in History at Bangor University (\"Welsh, English - or British? Hugh Hughes and late sixteenth-century Anglesey\") in 2011 and served as High Sheriff of Anglesey and Gwynedd in 2011-12. In Llanfechell he helped initiate the community hub venture, Caffi Siop Mechell.\n\nGrove-White's career is dedicated to the challenge of a viable future in the face of environmental and technological change. As an academic he strove to develop social science-based approaches to 'environmental' research, using 'sociology of knowledge' frameworks linking university centres with wider society. His main contributions there were to the public understanding of science, attitudes towards genetic engineering, local economic development, and spirituality and nature. He continues to agitate.\n\n"}
{"id": "3904071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3904071", "title": "Soviet–Polish Non-Aggression Pact", "text": "Soviet–Polish Non-Aggression Pact\n\nThe Soviet–Polish Non-Aggression Pact (, ) was an international treaty of non-aggression signed in 1932 by representatives of Poland and the USSR. The pact was unilaterally broken by the Soviet Union on September 17, 1939, during the German and Soviet invasion of Poland.\n\nAfter the Polish–Soviet War, the Polish authorities pursued a policy of \"equal distance\" between Germany and the Soviet Union. Most of Polish politicians, both on the left and right, believed that Poland should rely mostly on the crucial alliance with France dating back to World War I and should not support either Germany or the Soviet Union. \n\nTo normalize the bilateral contacts with the Soviet Union, talks were started in January 1926 to prepare a non-aggression treaty. The treaty was to fortify the Polish gains of the Peace of Riga and was to be balanced by a similar pact signed with Germany. However, the talks with Germany were not started, and the Polish–Soviet talks were interrupted in June 1927, after Great Britain broke diplomatic relations with the USSR and Soviet plenipotentiary Pyotr Voykov was murdered in Warsaw. Instead, Poland applied to the Briand-Kellogg Pact of 1928. The Polish-Soviet negotiations were resumed in Moscow, in 1931. The pact was finally signed on July 25, 1932, effective for a three-year period. Ratifications were exchanged in Warsaw on December 23, 1932, and it went into effect on the same day. It was registered in League of Nations Treaty Series on January 9, 1933. On May 5, 1934 it was extended to December 31, 1945 without amendment. Among other topics, both sides agreed to renounce violence in bilateral relations, to resolve their problems through negotiations and to forgo any armed conflict or alliances aimed at the other side. \n\nOn September 23, 1938, the Soviet Union sent a note to the Polish government informing it that the pact will be considered null and void in the case of Poland's participation in the occupation of Czechoslovakia . However, this threat was not carried out, as the Soviet government stated on October 31, after Poland occupied Zaolzie area, that the pact remained in force . and it was reaffirmed by the two powers on November 26, 1938 (see ). Finally the pact was broken by the Soviets on September 17, 1939, when the Red Army joined Nazi Germany's forces in their invasion of Poland, in accordance with the secret protocols of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact.\n\nThe pact was considered at the time as a major success of the Polish diplomacy, much weakened by the toll war with Germany, renouncement of parts of the Treaty of Versailles and loosened links with France. It also reinforced the Polish negotiating position with Germany, which resulted in signing of the German–Polish Non-Aggression Pact eighteen months later.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5985351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5985351", "title": "State Border Guard Service of Ukraine", "text": "State Border Guard Service of Ukraine\n\nState Border Guard Service of Ukraine (, \"Derzhavna Prykordonna Sluzhba Ukrayiny\"; abbr. ДПСУ, \"DPSU\") or SBGS is the border guard of Ukraine. It is an independent law enforcement agency of special assignment, the head of which is subordinated to the President of Ukraine.\n\nThe Service was created on July 31, 2003 after the reorganization of the State Committee in Affairs for Protection the State Border. During wartime, units of the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine fall under the command of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The State Border Guard Service of Ukraine includes the Ukrainian Sea Guard (the country's coast guard). It is also responsible for running \"Temporary Detention Centres\", in which refugees are held.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUkrainian border guards are the national successors of the Soviet Border Troops. They were formed from the approximately 17,000 Border Troops located in Ukraine. In 1991, the organisation was first titled the \"Ukrainian Border Troops\", which was later subordinated to the \"Ukraine's State Committee for State Border Guarding\".\n\nFrom 1991 to at least 1993, the new borders with Russia and Belarus were not guarded; the Border Troops were only deployed along the western borders (minus Moldova) and on the Black Sea. Another 9,000 personnel were added to the Border Troops at the expense of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and, by the end of 1993, border posts were established in the north along the Russian and Belarusian borders. In 1999, the authorised strength of the force was again increased to 50,000.\n\nIn 2003, new legislation was adopted, and this somewhat changed the legal status of the institution. In March 2003, the Border Troops became the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine, and its status was legally changed from 'military formation' to 'special law-enforcement body.' The force was legally granted 50,000 personnel, including 8,000 civilian employees.\n\nOn 4 July 2012, a State Border Guard Service Diamond DA42 aircraft failed to make its scheduled radio contact with ground units. A Search and rescue mission revealed that the plane had crashed into a wooded mountainous area in Velykyi Bereznyi Raion, killing all 3 crew members on board. A further investigation was launched.\n\nDuring The War in Donbass on August 31, 2014 two Sea Guard Zhuk class patrol boats where struck by land based artillery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12188690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12188690", "title": "Trading Up (book)", "text": "Trading Up (book)\n\nTrading Up: Consumer and Environmental Regulation in a Global Economy (Harvard University Press 1995, ) is a book by UC Berkeley political scientist and business professor, David Vogel. It examines the impact of free trade on environmental regulations. It analyzes the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement, and the treaties that created the European Community and Union, and looks at cases including the GATT tuna-dolphin dispute, the EC's beef hormone ban, the Danish bottle case. \n\nSome environmentalists have expressed concern that trade liberalization and acceptance of trade rules (with, for example, the World Trade Organization) will retard and even undermine national regulations for consumer protection and environmental improvement, as in the tuna-dolphin case. These observers are also concerned about competition among nations for footloose industries. This interesting book systematically examines the original European Community, the Single European Act, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and its 1979 standards code, the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Area, and the more recent North American Free Trade Agreement, as well as the states in the free trade area of the United States. Vogel finds that, while counterexamples do exist, trade liberalization on balance has strongly reinforced environment-improving regulations. A good example is auto emissions requirements, which have gradually stiffened and leveled up in the trading system over time. Three reasons are adduced, mainly concerning the major markets. First, stiffer regulations sometimes enhance the competitive advantage of firms, thus lining up industrialists with environmentalists in an open economy. Second, these markets (California in the United States, Germany in Europe, the United States and EU in the world at large) can set product standards that outsiders have to meet. Third, to the extent they are governed by environmentally sensitive parties (mainly the United States and EU), the major economies have negotiated international agreements that foster environmental improvement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2149607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2149607", "title": "Traffic police", "text": "Traffic police\n\nTraffic police or traffic officers, often referred to colloquially as traffic cops, are police officers who direct traffic or serve in a traffic or roads policing unit enforcing rules of the road. Traffic police include officers who patrol major roads and also police who address traffic infractions on other roads. It has been noted that:\n\nTraffic police have existed in some form for nearly three centuries:\n\nIn the Democratic Republic of the Congo five automatic traffic police are in operation. The large aluminium figures are able to rotate at the waist, and contain closed circuit television cameras to allow them to record offenders, for later apprehension or imposition of fines. The system runs on solar power, from panels on the roof of the structure within which the robot stands. The robot controls the traffic with red and green lights in its hands, and the use of articulated arms. The robots can also speak to pedestrians and help them safely cross the road.\n\nThe system is designed and built by a women's engineering co-operative in DRC. Another five robots have been bought for Katanga province, and a further thirty for motorway use have been proposed.\n\n\n\nIn 1998 Stephen Chance and Stephen Dale proposed traffic policing as a model to deal with paperwork.\n\n"}
{"id": "1272591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1272591", "title": "Whiggism", "text": "Whiggism\n\nWhiggism (in North America sometimes spelled Whigism) is a historical political philosophy that grew out of the Parliamentarian faction in the Wars of the Three Kingdoms (1639–1651). The Whigs' key policy positions were the supremacy of Parliament (as opposed to that of the king), tolerance of Protestant dissenters and opposition to a \"Papist\" (Roman Catholic) on the throne, especially James II or one of his descendants.\n\nAfter the huge success (from the Whig point of view) of the Glorious Revolution of 1688–1689, Whiggism dominated English and British politics until about 1760, although in practice the political group splintered into different factions. After 1760, the Whigs lost power – apart from sharing it in some short-lived coalition governments – but Whiggism fashioned itself into a generalised belief system that emphasised innovation and liberty and was strongly held by about half of the leading families in England and Scotland, as well as most merchants, dissenters and the middle classes. The opposing Tory position was held by the other great families, the Church of England, most of the landed gentry and officers of the army and the navy. Whiggism originally referred to the Whigs of the British Isles, but the name of \"Old Whigs\" was largely adopted by the American Patriots in the Thirteen Colonies. Following independence, American Whiggism became known as republicanism. The term \"Old Whigs\" was also used in Britain for those Whigs who opposed Robert Walpole as part of the Country Party.\n\nOne meaning of whiggism given by the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" is \"moderate or antiquated Liberalism\".\n\nQuickly following the adoption of \"whig\" as the name of a political faction, the word \"whiggism\" was already in use by the 1680s. In 1682, Edmund Hickeringill published his \"History of Whiggism\". In 1702, writing satirically in the guise of a Tory, Daniel Defoe asserted: \"We can never enjoy a settled uninterrupted Union and Tranquility in this Nation, till the Spirit of Whiggisme, Faction, and Schism is melted down like the Old-Money\". The name probably originates from a shortening of Whiggamore referring to the Whiggamore Raid.\n\nThe true origins of what became known as whiggism lie in the Wars of the Three Kingdoms and the power struggle between the Parliament of England and King Charles I, which eventually turned into the English Civil Wars, but only after the example of the successful use of violent opposition to the king set by the Bishops' Wars, which were fought between the same king in his capacity as king of Scotland on the one side and the Parliament of Scotland and the Church of Scotland on the other. However, the immediate origins of the Whigs and whiggism were in the Exclusion Bill crisis of 1678 to 1681, in which a \"country party\" battled a \"court party\" in an unsuccessful attempt to exclude James, Duke of York, from succeeding his brother Charles II as king of England, Scotland and Ireland. This crisis was prompted by Charles's lack of a legitimate heir, by the discovery in 1673 that James was a Roman Catholic, and by the so-called \"Popish Plot\" of 1678.\n\nWhile a major principle of whiggism was opposition to popery, that was always much more than a mere religious preference in favour of Protestantism, although most Whigs did have such a preference. Sir Henry Capel outlined the principal motivation of the cry of \"no popery\" when he said in the House of Commons on 27 April 1679:\n\nAlthough they were unsuccessful in preventing the accession of the Duke of York to the throne, the Whigs in alliance with William of Orange brought him down in the Glorious Revolution of 1688. By that event, a new supremacy of parliament was established, which itself was one of the principles of whiggism, much as it had been the chief principle of the Roundheads in an earlier generation.\n\nThe great Whiggish achievement was the Bill of Rights of 1689. It made Parliament, not the Crown, supreme. It established free elections to the Commons (although they were mostly controlled by the local landlord) free speech in parliamentary debates, and gave all Britons freedom from ‘cruel or unusual punishment’.\n\nLee Ward (2008) argues that the philosophical origins of Whiggism came in James Tyrrell's \"Patriarcha Non Monarcha\" (1681), John Locke's \"Two Treatises of Government\" (1689) and Algernon Sidney's \"Discourses Concerning Government\" (1698). All three were united in opposing Sir Robert Filmer's defence of divine right and absolute monarchy. Tyrrell propounded a moderate Whiggism which interpreted England's balanced and mixed constitution \"as the product of a contextualized social compact blending elements of custom, history, and prescription with inherent natural law obligations\". However, Sidney emphasised the main themes of republicanism and based Whig ideology in the sovereignty of the people by proposing a constitutional reordering that would both elevate the authority of Parliament and democratise its forms. Sidney also emphasised classical republican notions of virtue. Ward says that Locke's liberal Whiggism rested on a radically individualist theory of natural rights and limited government. Tyrrell's moderate position came to dominate Whiggism and British constitutionalism as a whole from 1688 to the 1770s. The more radical ideas of Sidney and Locke, argues Ward, became marginalised in Britain, but emerged as a dominant strand in American republicanism. The issues raised by the Americans, starting with the Stamp Act crisis of 1765, ripped Whiggism apart in a battle of parliamentary sovereignty (Tyrrell) versus popular sovereignty (Sidney and Locke).\n\nWhiggism took different forms in England and Scotland, even though from 1707 the two nations shared a single parliament. While English whiggism had at its heart the power of parliament, creating for that purpose a constitutional monarchy and a permanently Protestant succession to the throne, Scottish Whigs gave a higher priority to using power for religious purposes, including maintaining the authority of the Church of Scotland, justifying the Protestant Reformation and emulating the Covenanters.\n\nThere were also Whigs in the North American colonies and while whiggism there had much in common with that in Great Britain, it too had its own priorities. In the unfolding of the American Revolution such whiggism became known as republicanism.\n\nIn India, Prashad (1966) argues that the profound influence of the ideas of Edmund Burke introduced Whiggism into the mainstream of Indian political thought. The Indians adopted the basic assumptions of Whiggism, especially the natural leadership of an elite, the political incapacity of the masses, the great partnership of the civil society and the best methods of achieving social progress, analysing the nature of society and the nation and depicting the character of the ideal state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39903086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39903086", "title": "Working class", "text": "Working class\n\nThe working class (or labouring class) comprises the people employed for wages, especially in manual-labour occupations and industrial work. Working-class occupations (see also \"Designation of workers by collar color\") include blue-collar jobs, some white-collar jobs, and most pink-collar jobs. The working class only rely upon their earnings from wage labour, thereby, the category includes most of the working population of industrialized economies, of the urban areas (cities, towns, villages) of non-industrialized economies, and of the rural workforce.\n\nIn Marxist theory and socialist literature, the term \"working class\" is often used interchangeably with the term \"proletariat\" and includes all workers who expend both physical and mental labour (salaried knowledge workers and white-collar workers) to produce economic value for the owners of the means of production (the bourgeoisie in Marxist literature).\n\nAs with many terms describing social class, \"working class\" is defined and used in many different ways. The most general definition, used by Marxists and many socialists, is that the working class includes all those who have nothing to sell but their labour power and skills. In that sense it includes both white and blue-collar workers, manual and mental workers of all types, excluding only individuals who derive their income from business ownership and the labour of others.\n\nWhen used non-academically in the United States, however, it often refers to a section of society dependent on physical labour, especially when compensated with an hourly wage. For certain types of science, as well as less scientific or journalistic political analysis, for example, the working class is loosely defined as those without college degrees. Working-class occupations are then categorized into four groups: unskilled labourers, artisans, outworkers, and factory workers.\n\nA common alternative, is to define class by income levels. When this approach is used, the working class can be contrasted with a so-called \"middle class \"on the basis of differential terms of access to economic resources, education, cultural interests, and other goods and services. The cut-off between working class and middle class here might mean the line where a population has discretionary income, rather than simply sustenance (for example, on fashion versus merely nutrition and shelter).\n\nSome researchers have suggested that working-class status should be defined subjectively as self-identification with the working-class group. This subjective approach allows people, rather than researchers, to define their own social class.\n\nIn feudal Europe, the working class as such did not exist in large numbers. Instead, most people were part of the labouring class, a group made up of different professions, trades and occupations. A lawyer, craftsman and peasant were all considered to be part of the same social unit, a third estate of people who were neither aristocrats nor church officials. Similar hierarchies existed outside Europe in other pre-industrial societies. The social position of these labouring classes was viewed as ordained by natural law and common religious belief. This social position was contested, particularly by peasants, for example during the German Peasants' War.\n\nIn the late 18th century, under the influence of the Enlightenment, European society was in a state of change, and this change could not be reconciled with the idea of a changeless god-created social order. Wealthy members of these societies created ideologies which blamed many of the problems of working-class people on their morals and ethics (i.e. excessive consumption of alcohol, perceived laziness and inability to save money). In \"The Making of the English Working Class\", E. P. Thompson argues that the English working class was present at its own creation, and seeks to describe the transformation of pre-modern labouring classes into a modern, politically self-conscious, working class.\n\nStarting around 1917, a number of countries became ruled ostensibly in the interests of the working class (see Soviet working class). Some historians have noted that a key change in these Soviet-style societies has been a massive a new type of proletarianization, often effected by the administratively achieved forced displacement of peasants and rural workers. Since then, four major industrial states have turned towards semi-market-based governance (China, Laos, Vietnam, Cuba), and one state has turned inwards into an increasing cycle of poverty and brutalization (North Korea). Other states of this sort have either collapsed (such as the Soviet Union), or never achieved significant levels of industrialization or large working classes.\n\nSince 1960, large-scale proletarianization and enclosure of commons has occurred in the third world, generating new working classes. Additionally, countries such as India have been slowly undergoing social change, expanding the size of the urban working class.\n\nKarl Marx defined the working class or proletariat as individuals who sell their labour power for wages and who do not own the means of production. He argued that they were responsible for creating the wealth of a society. He asserted that the working class physically build bridges, craft furniture, grow food, and nurse children, but do not own land, or factories.\n\nA sub-section of the proletariat, the lumpenproletariat (\"rag-proletariat\"), are the extremely poor and unemployed, such as day labourers and homeless people. Marx considered them to be devoid of class consciousness.\n\nIn \"The Communist Manifesto\", Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels argued that it was the destiny of the working class to displace the capitalist system, with the dictatorship of the proletariat, abolishing the social relationships underpinning the class system and then developing into a future communist society in which \"the free development of each is the condition for the free development of all.\" Some issues in Marxist arguments about working-class membership have included:\n\nPossible responses to some of these issues are:\n\nIn general, in Marxist terms, wage labourers and those dependent on the welfare state are working class, and those who live on accumulated capital are not. This broad dichotomy defines the class struggle. Different groups and individuals may at any given time be on one side or the other. For example, retired factory workers are working-class in the popular sense; but to the extent that they live off fixed incomes, financed by stock in corporations whose earnings are profit, retired factory workers' interests, and possibly their identities and politics, are not working class. Such contradictions of interests and identity within individuals' lives and within communities can effectively undermine the ability of the working class to act in solidarity to reduce exploitation, inequality, and the role of ownership in determining people's life chances, work conditions, and political power.\n\n"}
