{"id": "34872113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34872113", "title": "2012 Afghanistan Quran burning protests", "text": "2012 Afghanistan Quran burning protests\n\nThe 2012 Afghanistan Quran burning protests was a series of protests of varying levels of violence which took place early in 2012 in response to the burning of Islamic religious material by soldiers from the United States Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan. On 22 February 2012, U.S. troops at Bagram Base disposed of copies of the Quran that had been used by Taliban prisoners to write messages to each other. As part of the disposal, parts of the books were burned. Afghan forces working at the base reported this, resulting in outraged Afghans besieging Bagram AFB, raining it with petrol bombs and stones. After five days of protest, 30 people had been killed, including four Americans. Over 200 people were wounded. International condemnation followed the burning of copies of the Quran, on 22 February 2012, from the library that is used by inmates at the base's detention facility. The protests included domestic riots which caused at least 41 deaths and at least 270 injuries.\n\nBagram Airfield is one of the largest American military bases in Afghanistan, about northeast of the Afghan capital Kabul. The Parwan Detention Facility, located at the base, houses hundreds of Taliban, al Qaeda and other captured militants.\n\nIn February 2012, two Afghan-American interpreters at the base removed 1,652 damaged books and Islamic texts from the library at the Parwan Detention Facility (including 48 copies of the Quran), and boxed them for storage. On 22 February, several members of the United States armed forces sent them to an incinerator to be burned. Several Afghan garbage collectors working at the base reported finding a number of charred books and quickly notified an Afghan National Army commander.\n\nJohn R. Allen, commander of ISAF and US forces in Afghanistan, said the books were taken from the library that is used by inmates at the detention facility. He said the religious material was removed from the library due to the presence of \"extremist inscriptions\" on them, further noting \"an appearance that these documents were being used to facilitate extremist communications.\"\n\nSome Muslims responded by participating in nationwide protests, some of which turned into riots. Protesters expressed anti-American sentiments, and also dissatisfaction with the Afghanistan president, with the media reporting chants such as \"Death to America, death to Obama, death to Karzai.\" Despite apologies from US President Barack Obama and US-ISAF commander John R. Allen, demonstrators attacked French, Norwegian and US bases, including those at Mihtarlam and Kapisa. A post on CBS News read:\n\nTwenty-three people were reported killed from the three days of protesting and riots, including four members of the United States armed forces, two of which resulted after someone in the uniform of the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) turned their weapons on them; over 55 others were also wounded. John Allen visited the base in Nangarhar and urged forces under his command not to seek retribution. On 25 February, the Taliban claimed responsibility for the deaths of four American military personnel. Two of the other dead were high-ranking US military advisors working inside the Afghan Interior Ministry in Kabul. The Taliban asserted that one of its operatives was assisted by someone to get into the ministry and to the Americans. Commander Allen called the shooting of the two senior US officers at the Ministry of Interior \"cowardly\".\n\nProtests on 26 February in northern Kunduz Province left one protester dead, seven US military personnel injured by a grenade, and 16 other protesters injured in an attack on the police chief's office with grenades, pistols, knives, sticks, and stones. Rioters also tried to burn down the UN building. On the morning of 27 February a suicide car bomb attack at the entrance to Jalalabad Airport left nine people dead and 12 others wounded. The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack as \"revenge\" for the desecrations of Quran. Afghans became aware that their feelings were being exploited by militant groups such as the Taliban and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb-e Islami. Deutsche Welle reported:\n\nA joint investigation by U.S. and Afghan authorities as well as a second investigation by the U.S. army into was completed in early April 2012. According to a U.S. Army investigation report released on 27 August 2012, members of the Military Police and Theater Intelligence Team had discovered that Bagram detainees were using library books to pass notes and messages and up to 100 Qurans and other religious materials were burned in the incinerator at Bagram Air Field on 20 February 2012.\n\nOfficers at the Parwan detention center on the edge of Bagram Air Base worried that some detainees were communicating through notes written in library books, potentially to plan an attack. As a precaution, the officers assigned two Afghan-American interpreters to sort through the library's books and identify those that might contain messages that could pose a security risk.\nBy the time the interpreters were finished, nearly 2,000 volumes, including copies of the Quran and other religious texts, had been set aside for removal. According to the investigation, one interpreter reported that up to 75 percent of the books in the library contained extremist content. But high-ranking Afghan religious officials who conducted their own inquiry said at the time that they doubted the writing in the books was anything other than personal notations, and that some of it was simply notes of detainees' imprisonment, their names, their fathers' names and the locations and times of their arrest. Still, the books were deemed \"sensitive material\" by American military officials, who said they decided to burn them because there was no place to store them all. and so soldiers were ordered to remove the books as contraband.\n\nIn all, about 2,000 books, including Qurans and other religious material, were set to be destroyed. An Afghan National Army soldier and an interpreter warned the troops not to dispose of the religious texts, but soldiers took some 100 books to the burn pit anyway. As workers began heaving them into the flames, an Afghan laborer offered to help – and then started screaming when he realized what they were. He grabbed a front-end loader and doused the entire burn pit to extinguish the flames. The Afghan laborer also called for help from other workers, and they turned off the burner and began to douse the flames with water. The Americans immediately stopped, but by then at least four Qurans had been badly burned. An angry crowd of Afghans gathered around the U.S. service members who drove the truck to the burn pit and were burning the material. The three service members disposing of the books \"became frightened by the growing, angry crowd and rapidly departed the area\" in the truck, the investigation said.\n\n\"I absolutely reject any suggestion that those involved acted with any malicious intent to disrespect the Quran or defame the faith of Islam,\" an investigator, Brigadier General Bryan Watson, wrote. \"Ultimately, this was a tragic incident (that) resulted from a lack of cross-talk between leaders and commanders, a lack of senior involvement in giving clear guidance in a complex operation\" and \"distrust among our service members and our partners.\" The investigators of the incident concluded that the involved soldiers did not follow proper procedures, were ignorant of the importance of the Quran to Afghans and got no clear guidance from their leaders in a chain of mistakes. Specifically, the report found that the service members relied too heavily on one linguist's conclusion that the Qurans, which also had militant messages in them, were rewritten versions that were extremist and would not be considered real Qurans. It also said the service members mistakenly interpreted a commander's order to get rid of the books as permission to take them to the burn pit. The report also found that only one of the service members assigned to transport the books to the burn pit knew they were carrying religious books. Even after commanders at the detention center realized a mistake was being made, the troops they dispatched to stop the burning went to the wrong location and didn't find the truck with the books.\n\nNo U.S. military persons, be it officers or enlisted personnel, had been disciplined as of 19 April 2012 for their roles in the incident according to The Atlantic magazine. As of 7 May 2012 it was not clear what actions the ISAF commander Gen. John Allen took against the U.S. military personnel involved in the incident. His options included to take no action, to recommend criminal charges or to issue written reprimands. Six U.S. Army soldiers and one US sailor faced administrative punishments for their role in the incident; punishment could range from letters of reprimand to reductions in pay, but criminal charges were not recommended.\n\nOn 27 August 2012 the U.S. Army announced that six Army soldiers received administrative non-judicial punishments for their role in the inadvertent burning of Korans in Afghanistan. The Army found no ill intent on the part of the soldiers, meaning they will not face criminal charges for the incident that set off deadly protests in Afghanistan in January. The administrative punishment, however, will likely result in the end of their military careers; because they received letters of reprimand which effectively end most military careers.\n\nThe six soldiers being disciplined included four officers and two enlisted soldiers—a warrant officer is among the four officers. A Navy sailor was also investigated for his alleged role, but the admiral who reviewed his case determined he was not guilty and that no further disciplinary action was warranted. The investigation against the sailor was dropped when it was determined he was simply ordered to drive the truck with the material to the burn site at the base. The U.S. Army did not specify exactly how the soldiers had been punished, but generally non-judicial administrative punishments can include, among other things, a reprimand, reductions in rank, forfeiting pay, extra duties or being restricted to a military base. The punishments remain on a service member's permanent record and can prevent further promotion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2610287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2610287", "title": "Advice and consent", "text": "Advice and consent\n\nAdvice and consent is an English phrase frequently used in enacting formulae of bills and in other legal or constitutional contexts. It may describe two situations, either where a weak executive branch of a government enacts something previously approved of by the legislative branch or where the legislative branch concurs and approves something previously enacted by a strong executive branch.\n\nThe concept serves to moderate the power of one branch of government by requiring the concurrence of another branch for selected actions. The expression is frequently used in weak executive systems where the head of state has little practical power, and in practice the important part of the passage of a law is in its adoption by the legislature.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a constitutional monarchy, bills are headed:\n\nBE IT ENACTED by the Queen's most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:\n\nThis enacting formula emphasizes that, although legally the bill is being enacted by the Queen of the United Kingdom (specifically, by the Queen-in-Parliament), it is not through her initiative but through that of Parliament that legislation is created.\n\nIn the United States, \"advice and consent\" is a power of the United States Senate to be consulted on and approve treaties signed and appointments made by the President of the United States to public positions, including Cabinet secretaries, federal judges, United States Attorneys, and ambassadors. This power is also held by several state Senates, which are consulted on and approve various appointments made by the state's chief executive, such as some statewide officials, state departmental heads in the Governor's cabinet, and state judges (in some states).\n\nThe term \"advice and consent\" first appears in the United States Constitution in Article II, Section 2, Clause 2, referring to the senate's role in the signing and ratification of treaties. This term is then used again, to describe the Senate's role in the appointment of public officials, immediately after describing the president's duty to nominate officials. Article II, Section 2, paragraph 2 of the United States Constitution states:\n\nThis language was written at the Constitutional Convention as part of a delicate compromise concerning the balance of power in the federal government. Many delegates preferred to develop a strong executive control vested in the president, while others, worried about authoritarian control, preferred to strengthen the Congress. Requiring the president to gain the advice and consent of the Senate achieved both goals without hindering the business of government.\n\nUnder the Twenty-fifth Amendment, appointments to the office of Vice President are confirmed by a majority vote in both Houses of Congress, instead of just the Senate.\n\nWhile several framers of the U.S. Constitution, such as the Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, believed that the required role of the Senate is to advise the President \"after\" the nomination has been made by the President, Roger Sherman believed that advice \"before\" nomination could still be helpful. President George Washington took the position that pre-nomination advice was allowable but not mandatory. The notion that pre-nomination advice is optional has developed into the unification of the \"advice\" portion of the power with the \"consent\" portion, although several Presidents have consulted informally with Senators over nominations and treaties.\n\nTypically, a congressional hearing is held to question an appointee prior to a committee vote. If the nominee is approved by the relevant committee, the nomination is sent to the full Senate for a confirmation vote. The actual motion adopted by the Senate when exercising the power is \"to advise and consent\". For appointments, a majority of Senators present are needed to pass a motion \"to advise and consent\". A filibuster requiring a three-fifths vote to override, as well as other similar delaying tactics, have been used to require higher vote tallies in the past. \n\nOn November 21, 2013, the Democratic Party, led by then-Majority Leader Harry Reid, overrode the filibuster of a nomination with a simple majority vote to change the rules. As a result, for instance, judicial nominees to federal courts and a president's executive-branch nominations can be freed up for a confirmation vote by a simple majority vote of the Senate. However, he left the filibuster in place for Supreme Court nominees.\n\nIn April 2017, the Republican Party, led by Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, did the same for Supreme Court nominations, allowing Associate Justice Neil Gorsuch on the bench, despite what might have otherwise been a successful Democratic filibuster.\n\n"}
{"id": "22678567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22678567", "title": "Arabid race", "text": "Arabid race\n\nThe Arabid race (also Orientalid race) is a historical term for a morphological subtype of the Caucasoid race, as used in traditional physical anthropology.\n\nThe Arabid race is thought to have originated within the Arabian Peninsula, and it is currently predominant there as well. It is a major element in the Levant region of the Middle East, and a minor element in other parts of Western Asia.\n\nThe type is known as \"Araboid\" in forensic pathology and anthropology. In the Near East region, it is heavily mixed with the Armenoid race. This Armenoid-Araboid hybrid type is alternatively known as the \"Assyrid\".\n\nThe ancient Phoenicians, who were ancestral to the Lebanese and Syrians, also generally belonged to this type. Gulf Arabs, also known as Arabian Arabs or true Arabs, among whom are the Saudis, Bahrainis, Kuwaitis, southern Iraqis and the Bedouins, are more frequently of classic Arabid type. In areas bordering the Iranian plateau, the Arabid type also not seldom merges with the Irano-Afghan race, a local Mediterranean subtype.\n\nIn parts of North Africa, primarily among the Arabic-speaking Bedouin herders of the deserts and oases of the Maghreb and Egypt, the Arabid type fuses with another local Mediterranean subtype, the Hamitic, to produce a new hybrid morphological type. The Hamitic type, however, predominates throughout, especially among the Berbers as well as the Copts and Fellahin, since it is the taxon to which belonged most Ancient Libyans and Ancient Egyptians, respectively.\n\nA similar, minor Arabid element is found in parts of the Horn of Africa, having been introduced from the Persian Gulf region in historic times by the first Islamic proselytizers as well as the adjacent Himyarites and Sabaeans of Hadhramaut. However, here again the Arabid element is secondary to the predominant Hamitic type of the region's first Hamito-Semitic speakers, who were ancestral to the Somalis, Abyssinians and other Ethiopid populations.\n\nIn the Sudan area, classic Arabid types can be found among the Kababish and certain other Arabic-speaking desert tribes collectively known as Sudanese Arabs. Here, they often occur in solution with the local Hamitic Mediterranean type, which was the morphological taxon to which belonged the A-Group, C-Group and Meroitic culture makers, among certain other early populations in the region. Elsewhere, Arabid elements fuse with the Negroid type of the region's indigenous Nilo-Saharan speakers, the Nilotes, thereby producing an Afro-Arab hybrid type.\n\nIn the Iberian Peninsula, a rather tall, gracile, progressive, procopomorphic and high-skulled South Mediterranean type related to the Hamitic variety of North Africa is the predominant element. However, instead of Arabid, it is usually mixed here with low-skulled, long-skulled (dolichocephalic), short-statured Berid and West Mediterranid subtypes.\n\nThe Arabid race is distinguished from the West-Mediterranean race by some minor characteristic facial traits. The Arabid physical type had in earlier times a broader-formed Syrid subtype, which was found among the farmers of the Fertile Crescent.\n\n"}
{"id": "234494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234494", "title": "Arne Anka", "text": "Arne Anka\n\nArne Anka is a Swedish comic strip drawn by Charlie Christensen under the pseudonym \"Alexander Barks\" from 1983 to 1995 and 2006 and forward. The title character closely resembles Donald Duck (who is called \"Kalle Anka\" in Swedish). The likeness with Donald Duck is only feather deep, however; the comics often take place at a bar, \"Zeke's\", where Arne gets drunk while he cynically thinks about and discusses life. This usually happens in the company of his friend, \"Krille Krokodil\" (\"Krille Crocodile\"). In other situations, Arne is found walking, with friends or alone, and occasionally he is found in a completely different setting (albeit with the same group of friends), like ancient Rome or 18th century Paris. Always, however, he comments on life and (especially Swedish) society with sharp wit.\n\nSome distinct features about Arne Anka is deep love for Swedish poetry and literature, his miserable economy, his very high alcohol consumption and his enthusiasm towards women - even though he has very little luck with any such connections.\n\nCharlie Christensen uses his friends as inspiration for the characters and story's in Arne Anka. One of his friends has said that you sometimes notice that Charlie Christensen gets a particular look and then a few weeks later you read what you just said in an Arne Anka strip.\n\nIn 1997, a few pages were translated to English in connection with an exhibition of Nordic comics in France, and the publication of an English-language anthology. In this translation, the character was given the name \"Arnie the Duck\".\n\nIn the beginning of the 1990s, The Walt Disney Company threatened to sue the author, Charlie Christensen, due to Arne Anka's similarity with Donald Duck. As a response, Charlie Christensen drew a comic strip about Arne faking his own death, so that he could have plastic surgery done to his beak in secrecy. Arne then returned with a new, pointed beak, and the pseudonym \"Alexander Barks\" was changed to \"Alexander X\".\nAfter a while though, Arne went to a novelty store to buy a fake beak, which looked exactly like his old one. This new beak was drawn showing a small rubber band holding it in place until the threat of being sued was withdrawn. In the meanwhile, however, Disney's threat of a lawsuit, which received very extensive publicity in Sweden, had turned Arne Anka into a Swedish independence hero and increased his popularity manyfold.\n\nIn 1995, Arne Anka was produced as a play at Stockholm City Theatre (Stockholms Stadsteater). The play was written by Christensen himself, and it was called \"Arne Anka - en afton på Zekes\" (\"Arne Anka - an evening at Zeke's\"), starring Robert Gustafsson as Arne.\n\nIn December 2006, after more than ten years of absence, Arne made his comeback in Christensen's \"Arne Anka, Part V: Återuppståndelsen (The resurrection)\".\nWhen we meet him now, he is divorced with two kids, pays child support and, if possible, has even worse finances than in the past.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23466988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23466988", "title": "Belizean Americans", "text": "Belizean Americans\n\nBelizean Americans are Americans who are of Belizean ancestry. These ancestors might be from Belize or of its diaspora.\n\nAbout one out of every three Belizeans now live overseas and outside of Belize; the majority have migrated to Anglophone countries, especially the United States, where there are some 54,925 Belizeans, and the United Kingdom, with around 3,000 Belizeans. Smaller numbers now live in Canada.\n\nKriols and other ethnic groups are emigrating mostly to the United States, but also to the United Kingdom and other developed nations for better opportunities. Based on the latest U.S. Census, Belizeans in the United States are primarily of the Kriol and Garinagu ethnic groups of African, Native American and European descent, who are considered Black in the United States. In 1990, there were about 10,000 Belizean Americans citizens in the United States.\n\n\nDemographics of Belize\n"}
{"id": "48840195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48840195", "title": "Bridge law", "text": "Bridge law\n\nBridge law is the body of laws which apply to bridges in a particular jurisdiction.\n\nIn the United States, legislative authority to erect a bridge is necessary in three cases: first, when toll is demanded for its use—the right to take toll being a franchise which cannot be claimed without express grant from the state; second, when the state owns the bed of the stream over which the bridge extends, as is the case in all public or navigable streams; third, when the structure interferes or threatens to interfere with navigation. In the last case the authority of state governments is subject to the power given to Congress by the Federal Constitution to “regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several states.” (Art. I., §8.) The states may authorize bridges over navigable streams, and may regulate their size, form, and manner of construction. Until Congress intervenes in such cases the power of the states is unlimited. When it does intervene, however, its will is supreme, and its legislation, within the limits of the constitutional grant, overrides that of any state. A bridge constructed over a navigable river in accordance with an act of Congress is a lawful structure, however much it may interfere with the public right of navigation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2974897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2974897", "title": "Bullshot Crummond", "text": "Bullshot Crummond\n\nBullshot Crummond is a parody stage play of the British pulp hero Bulldog Drummond. The play was based on an idea by Ronald E. House and Diz White, was written in 1974 and first performed that year, by House, White, John Neville-Andrews, Alan Shearman, and Derek Cunningham at the Palladium Theater, 1031 Kearny Street, San Francisco, California.\n\nIt was later made into a 1983 film, \"Bullshot\"\n\nThe play concerns a pre-WWII plot by the dastardly Count Otto Von Brunno and his ambiguous relation Lenya Von Brunno to ruin the international diamond market by kidnapping Professor Rupert Fenton. Working against them are Hugh \"Bullshot\" Crummond and Rosemary Fenton (the professor's daughter). The characters are highly stereotypical: Otto a German supervillain, Lenya a femme fatale, Fenton an absent-minded professor, Rosemary a damsel in distress who faints and runs around in her underwear, and Crummond a highly intelligent and quick-witted hero. (However, at many times during the play, humor arises because Crummond fails to notice something very obvious, or because he is easily defeated in a fight.)\n\nMuch of the play's humor comes from its audacious (and intentionally failed) efforts to recreate film effects onstage. Examples include:\n\nOther humor arises from the plot, which relies on bizarre coincidences and unlikely events. For instance, when Crummond and Rosemary are in a tight spot, they manage to catch a wild carrier pigeon and have it convey a message from them; or a mysterious assassin steals an important letter, but because the letter had tea spilled on it, its ink stained a cloth napkin, so that Crummond can still figure out what it said. Otto's plots to kill Crummond include poison, a tarantula's bite, a stick of dynamite triggered by the \"Converse Force Field,\" and a sword fight. The play is structured more as an excuse for comic gags than as an actually coherent plot.\n\nThe show is designed to be performed by only five actors, one of whom plays seven characters: Professor Fenton; Crummond's friend Algy; a Chinese assassin; a local police officer; a waiter in a hotel restaurant; a one-armed Scotland Yard inspector (who is really one of Otto's henchmen in disguise); and a Cockney crook. In addition, the actor playing Otto plays Salvatore Scalicio, a Chicago gangster, in a quick-change scene where he repeatedly switches between Otto and Salvatore.\n\n"}
{"id": "1744401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1744401", "title": "Calico Early Man Site", "text": "Calico Early Man Site\n\nThe Calico Early Man Site is an archaeological site in an ancient Pleistocene lake located near Barstow in San Bernardino County in the central Mojave Desert of southern California. This site is on and in late middle-Pleistocene fanglomerates (now-cemented alluvial debris flow deposits) known variously as the Calico Hills, the Yermo Hills, or the Yermo formation. Holocene evidence includes petroglyphs and trail segments that are probably related to outcrops of local high-quality siliceous rock (primarily chalcedony in freshwater limestone).\n\nThe Calico Early Man Site includes:\n\nThe tools and flakes of LMLI and those found in the nested inset known as the Rock Wren Locality were probably made by modern man (\"Homo sapiens sapiens\").\n\nThe stone tools of these industries, along with preforms, lithic core, technical flakes, and pieces of angular debitage, mainly of chalcedony, are found on and in late middle Pleistocene-age fanglomerates and younger inset alluvial terraces in the Calico Hills (also known as the Yermo Hills) east of the Calico Peaks and the Calico Mountains. The location is in the central portion of southern California's Mojave Desert. Historically, this archaeological project has also been known as \"The Calico Mountains Archaeological Site\" and \"The Calico Hills Archaeological Site\". Today, it is called \"The Calico Early Man Site\".\n\nIn most of the Great Basin region, Late Pleistocene and Holocene alluviation has effectively buried and sealed earlier Pleistocene sediments and possible evidence of pre-Clovis cultures. In the Manix Basin (Lower Mojave Valley) of San Bernardino County, California, however, a fortuitous ensemble of environmental factors relating to mountain building; climatically controlled conditions for lake formation, alluviation, and erosion; faulting and folding; and significant erosion of ancient lacustrine plain sediments by the modern drainage have rendered relatively accessible for archaeological investigation a series of deposits that represent more than 350,000 years of Quaternary history.\n\nThe Manix Basin, a structural basin in the central Mojave Desert, is the third and lowest major valley of the Mojave River, presently an exotic stream with episodic flow, which has its source in the San Bernardino Mountains, some to the southeast.\n\nA freshwater lake developed in the basin about 400,000 – 500,000 years ago near the Calico Archaeological Site. The lake was present until the late Pleistocene. The last high stand of Lake Manix was at and had a surface area of approximately . This lake drained, probably catastrophically, approximately 18,100 years ago, probably as a result of a major increase in river inflow or tectonic movement on the Manix fault.\n\nThe lacustrine, fluvial, and alluvial sediments of the Pleistocene Manix Formation contain remains of numerous Rancholabrean animals ranging in age from approximately 20,000 years to well in excess of 350,000 years before present. Fossils recovered from the section include: camel, horse, mammoth, saber-tooth cat, dire wolf, short-faced bear, coyote, flamingo, pelican, eagle, swan, geese, mallard duck, ruddy duck, canvas backed duck, double-crested cormorant, grebe, crane, seagull and stork.\n\nThousands of rocks that bear a strong resemblance to prehistoric tools have been found at the site, both on the surface, and up to below the surface. A stone from the Master Pit had been dated to over 200,000 BP. However, this date could have been the result of contamination from other elements in the soil, so currently there is an effort to date verified lithics through thermoluminesence dating. While the results are still pending, the styles suggest 20,000 to 30,000 BP.\n\nThe debate centers on whether the \"tools\" were made by humans (i.e., artifacts), or through typical geological processes (i.e. geofacts). The general scientific consensus is that the subsurface items are geofacts.\n\nThe artifactual character of the Calico lithic assemblage has been questioned (Haynes 1973; Payen 1982a, 1982b; Taylor and Payen 1979; Duvall and Venner 1979). Haynes (1973) postulated that rock fracturing by tectonic stresses, weather, rock-on-rock percussion in streams and mudflows, pressure retouch of buried cobbles, and successive generations of flake removal and separation from cores through cycles of erosion and redeposition could have occurred during deposition of the alluvial deposits at Calico and produced specimens indistinguishable from artifacts.\n\nSpecimens collected from earlier excavations up to the present are under analysis by archaeologists volunteering at the Calico site. Many have been confirmed to be geofacts, but some are believed to be potential artifacts and have been cataloged and submitted for thermoluminescent dating. Currently work is being done on compiling and publishing the most recent finds at the site to be submitted to the local tribes, community and journals for peer review.\n\nPayen (1982) studied flake scar angles as traits for distinguishing artifacts from geofacts. He tested a method developed by Barnes (1939) who had compared frequency of obtuse angles on eoliths, natural fractures, and artifacts. Barnes found obtuse angles on 72% of eoliths, 75% of natural fractures, and 18% of artifacts and concluded that “The flaked tools of an industry…may be considered to be of human origin if not more than 25% of the angles scar-platform are obtuse (90° and over)” (Barnes 1939:111). Payen measured all flake angles on each Calico specimen in his sample. It is conceivable that flake scars were confused for striking platforms. Flaking from one side of a specimen can often remove earlier platform areas on the other side. Angles between two flake scars are different from angles between platforms and derivative flake scars.\n\nPayen compared mean angle values for Calico specimens with those on specimens selected as representing controlled and uncontrolled fracture. He found that “Statistically, there is no significant difference between the sample of alleged tools and the uncontrolled fracture series.” (Payen 1982:200).\n\nDuvall and Venner (1979:462) examined a sample of Calico artifacts and concluded they were form-selected examples of naturally flaked rocks. Their assessment was based on variances in seven attributes (length, width, thickness, flake angle, medial axis angle lateral edge angle, and distal edge angle) and comparison with comparable attributes on specimens in eight Paleoindian collections reported by Wilmsen (1970).\n\nBoth the Duvall/Venner and the Payen papers have been criticized on a number of levels, and analyses supporting the pro-artifact argument have been published. The present consensus is that there is no evidence of human activity at the Calico Early Man site. This consensus developed based on a number of factors, including:\n\n\nArchaeologists volunteering at the site have painstakingly gone through previous findings, and believe that some show enough evidence to rule them out as geofacts. These findings need to be published and undergo peer review before it can be determined whether there is a new consensus. Present focus is on:\n\nFavoring the interpretation of the questionable objects as stone tools is the fact that they closely resemble classic Paleolithic artifacts (Acheulean, Clactonian), and are sharp-edged and thus not \"flaked\" by attrition in streams or debris flows where random impacts blunt sharp edges rather than creating them. In the best examples multiple flakes have been removed in a patterned manner designed to produce serrate or denticulate edges not seen in natural rock breakage. The presumed chalcedony artifacts are found in close association with andesitic cobbles that are thoroughly decayed and friable, attesting to a greater-than-100,000-year-age for the enclosing deposit, based on universally-accepted geologic and geomorphologic criteria.\n\nIn 1959 Louis Leakey, while at the British Museum of Natural History in London, received a visit from Ruth DeEtte Simpson, an archaeologist from California. Simpson had acquired what looked like ancient scrapers from a site in the Calico Hills and showed it to Leakey.\n\nLeakey viewed it as important to study the Calico Hill site, as he was convinced that the number and distribution of native languages in the Americas required more time than 12,000 years to evolve and acquire their current distribution. In 1963, Leakey obtained funds from the National Geographic Society and commenced archaeological excavations with Simpson. Excavations in an area stratigraphically separate from a verified 10,000-year-old Paleoindian site were carried out by Leakey and Simpson, who believed that they had located stone artifacts that were dated 100,000 years or older, suggesting a human presence in North America much earlier than estimated.\n\nThe archaeologist Jeffrey Goodman who worked at the site with Leakey had also claimed the stone artifacts to be human made. Goodman has also made controversial statements that the artifacts found at Calico Hills may be as old as 500,000 years and if proven would be the oldest human artifacts in the world, which would place human origins in the Americas. However the majority of scientists have rejected these claims, according to Kenneth Feder \"Goodman's claims were not backed up with even a shred of evidence.\"\n\nThe geologist Vance Haynes had made three visits to the site in 1973 and had claimed that the artifacts of Leakey were naturally formed geofacts. According to Haynes, the geofacts were formed by stones becoming fractured in an ancient river on the site.\n\nIn her autobiography, Mary Leakey wrote that because of Louis's involvement with the Calico Hills site she had lost academic respect for him, and that the Calico excavations was \"catastrophic to his professional career and was largely responsible for the parting of our ways\". She did not share his visionary views about the Calico site. She regarded Louis as often slipping into incompetence and often publicized that opinion. Louis Leakey continued to visit the site several times a year and was connected with the project until his death in 1972. The site was taken over by California's Bureau of Land Management and was opened to the public.\n\nPresently, the site is open to the public and offers a visitor center, gift shop, and guided walking tour. It also provides students and volunteers interested in archaeology the opportunity to participate in an archaeological excavation. Archaeologists on the site provide instruction in excavation techniques and give a hands-on education to those who are interested and willing to get their hands dirty. More information on these digs can be found on the Calico Mountains Archaeological Site under events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50522600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50522600", "title": "Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life", "text": "Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life\n\nThe Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life is a research centre on the University of Alberta's Augustana Campus in Camrose, Alberta. It is the first such centre in a public university in Canada to focus on the intersection of religion and public life.\n\nThe Ronning Centre is named in for Chester Alvin Ronning, Canadian diplomat and principal of Camrose Lutheran College from 1927 to 1942. The Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life grew from the merger of Augustana University College with the University of Alberta in 2004. The Centre's activities involve a diversity of communities. It seeks to enhance debate on contested issues through lively discussion.\n\n"}
{"id": "54203454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54203454", "title": "Community governance", "text": "Community governance\n\nCommunity governance focuses on power that communities exercise in order to achieve policy outcomes that suit their needs. Through this, it fills the gaps that are created by larger governmental structures and market lags that are not dealt with at state and federal levels. Top-down approaches to community governance include community government wherein elected officials set policy and exact power over their local communities to enact policies while bottom-up approaches focus on citizen action at the grassroots level wherein communities form action groups and leaders demand change and create policy.\nCommunity governance takes decision-making and community leadership executed by community members that have a vested interest in their community. By focusing on community instead of the non-profit, for-profit, and government sectors, community governance distinguishes itself from other forms of governance.\n"}
{"id": "52221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52221", "title": "Corporate welfare", "text": "Corporate welfare\n\nCorporate welfare is a term that analogizes corporate subsidies to welfare payments for the poor. The term is often used to describe a government's bestowal of money grants, tax breaks, or other special favorable treatment for corporations. It highlights how wealthy corporations are less in need of such treatment than the poor.\n\nThe definition of corporate welfare is sometimes restricted to direct government subsidies of major corporations, excluding tax loopholes and all manner of regulatory and trade decisions, which, in practice, could be worth much more than any direct subsidies.\n\nThe term \"corporate welfare\" was reportedly invented in 1956 by Ralph Nader.\n\nBelieved to have been first popularised by Michael Harrington's 1962 book \"The Other America\" in which Harrington cited Charles Abrams, a noted authority on housing.\n\nVariations on this adage have been used in criticisms of the United States' economic policy by Joe Biden, Martin Luther King, Jr., Gore Vidal, Joseph P. Kennedy II, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., Dean Baker, Noam Chomsky, Robert Reich, John Pilger, and Bernie Sanders.\n\n\"Privatizing profits and socializing losses\" refers to the idea that corporations want to reserve financial gains for themselves and pass along losses to the rest of society, potentially through lobbying the government for assistance. This practice was criticized in the Wall Street bailout of 2008.\n\nSubsidies considered excessive, unwarranted, wasteful, unfair, inefficient, or bought by lobbying are often called corporate welfare. The label of corporate welfare is often used to decry projects advertised as benefiting the general welfare that spend a disproportionate amount of funds on large corporations, and often in uncompetitive, or anti-competitive ways. For instance, in the United States, agricultural subsidies are usually portrayed as helping independent farmers stay afloat. However, the majority of income gained from commodity support programs actually goes to large agribusiness corporations such as Archer Daniels Midland, as they own a considerably larger percentage of production.\n\nAlan Peters and Peter Fisher, Associate Professors at the University of Iowa, have estimated that state and local governments provide $40–50 billion annually in economic development incentives, which critics characterize as corporate welfare.\n\nSome economists consider the 2008 bank bailouts in the United States to be corporate welfare. U.S. politicians have also contended that zero-interest loans from the Federal Reserve System to financial institutions during the global financial crisis were a hidden, backdoor form of corporate welfare. The term gained increased prominence in 2018 when Senator Bernie Sanders introduced a bill, singling out Amazon and Walmart in particular, to require a company with 500 or more employees to pay the full cost of welfare benefits received by its workers.\n\nPolicy analysis conducted by the Cato Institute, an American libertarian think tank, argued that United States fiscal policy allocated approximately in the 2006 federal budget toward programs that the authors considered to be corporate welfare. Subsequent analysis by the institute estimated that number to be in the 2012 federal budget.\n\nDaniel D. Huff, professor emeritus of social work at Boise State University, published a comprehensive analysis of corporate welfare in 1993. Huff reasoned that a very conservative estimate of corporate welfare expenditures in the United States would have been at least in 1990. Huff compared this number with social welfare:\nHuff argued that deliberate obfuscation was a complicating factor.\n\nIn 2015, Kevin Farnsworth, a senior lecturer in Social Policy at the University of York published a paper in which he claimed that the government was providing corporate subsidies of £93 billion. This amount includes the role of the government in increasing trade, tax relief for businesses that invest in new plants and machinery (estimated by Farnsworth at £20 billion), not charging fuel duty on fuel used by railways or airlines, green energy subsidies, a lower corporation tax rate for small companies, regional development grants and government procurement for businesses (which Farnsworth suggests often favours British businesses even when these are not the best value option available). However, \"The Register\" wrote that Farnsworth's figure for tax relief for investment was incorrect and that he had made mistakes in his calculations, noting that he was not an accountant. It also stated that not charging businesses taxes under certain circumstances (when the reliefs applied) was not the same as giving them a subsidy. Fuel duty is not charged on airlines due to the Convention on International Civil Aviation (a UN agency) which specifies that aeroplanes should be exempt from fuel duties.\n\nIn 2015, Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn said he would “strip out” the £93bn of “corporate tax relief and subsidies” Farnsworth referred to and use the proceeds for public investment. Corbyn did not say which specific policies he would change. \"The Guardian\" wrote the policy \"sounds wonderful, but careful scrutiny of 'corporate welfare' shows that it includes capital allowances designed to persuade companies to invest, regional aid to boost growth in rundown parts of the UK, and subsidies to keep bus and rail routes open – none of which Corbyn would presumably like to see stopped.\"\n\nThe New Democratic Party in Canada picked up the term as a major theme in its 1972 federal election campaign. Its leader, David Lewis, used the term in the title of his 1972 book, \"Louder Voices: The Corporate Welfare Bums\".\n\nThe Reform Party and its successor the Canadian Alliance were known for opposing mostly business subsidies. However, after their merger with the Progressive Conservative party, they dropped their opposition to it. \n\nIt was observed by The Wire that the Effective tax rate was low for the larger corporations which meant companies making smaller profits are competing in an unequal environment against bigger companies with substantial taxation benefits, with the gap in effective tax rates widening over the years. India's Union government's prime minister criticised this practice and said\n\n\n"}
{"id": "358112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=358112", "title": "Fair Housing Act", "text": "Fair Housing Act\n\nThe Fair Housing Act is a federal act in the United States intended to protect the buyer or renter of a dwelling from seller or landlord discrimination. Its primary prohibition makes it unlawful to refuse to sell, rent to, or negotiate with any person because of that person's inclusion in a protected class. The goal is a unitary housing market in which a person's background (as opposed to financial resources) does not arbitrarily restrict access. Calls for open housing were issued early in the twentieth century, but it was not until after World War II that concerted efforts to achieve it were undertaken.\n\nThe legislation was the culmination of a civil rights campaign against housing discrimination in the United States and was approved by President Lyndon B. Johnson one week after the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.\n\nThe Fair Housing Act was enacted as Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, and codified at 42 U.S.C. 3601-3619, with penalties for violation at 42 U.S.C. 3631. It is enforced by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.\n\nThe \"Fair Housing Act\" (Title VIII of the \"Civil Rights Act of 1968\") introduced meaningful federal enforcement mechanisms. It outlaws:\n\n\nWhen the \"Fair Housing Act\" was first enacted, it prohibited discrimination only on the basis of race, color, religion, and national origin. Sex was added as a protected characteristic in 1974. In 1988, disability and familial status (the presence or anticipated presence of children under 18 in a household) were added (further codified in the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990). In certain circumstances, the law allows limited exceptions for discrimination based on sex, religion, or familial status.\n\nIn 2017, a federal judge ruled that sexual orientation and gender identity are protected classes under the Fair Housing Act. As of May 2018, there is an additional pending effort to amend the Fair Housing Act to make this explicit (HR 1447). In a meeting on May 16, 2018 with the National Association of Realtors (NAR), Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-Calif.), who is campaigning for his 16th term, said he believed that homeowners should be allowed to refuse to sell their home to gay and lesbian homebuyers. NAR disagreed and withdrew its endorsement of the Congressman over the matter.\n\nThe United States Department of Housing and Urban Development is the federal executive department with the statutory authority to administer and enforce the \"Fair Housing Act\". The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development has delegated fair housing enforcement and compliance activities to HUD's Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO) and HUD's Office of General Counsel. FHEO is one of the United States' largest federal civil rights agencies. It has a staff of more than 600 people located in 54 offices around the United States. As of August 2017, the head of FHEO is Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity Anna Maria Farias, whose appointment was confirmed on August 3, 2017.\n\nIndividuals who believe they have experienced housing discrimination can file a complaint with FHEO at no charge. FHEO funds and has working agreements with many state and local governmental agencies where \"substantially equivalent\" fair housing laws are in place. Under these agreements, FHEO refers complaints to the state or locality where the alleged incident occurred, and those agencies investigate and process the case instead of FHEO. This is known as FHEO's Fair Housing Assistance Program (or \"FHAP\").\n\nThere is also a network of private, non-profit fair housing advocacy organizations throughout the country. Some are funded by FHEO's Fair Housing Initiatives Program (or \"FHIP\"), and some operate with private donations or grants from other sources.\n\nVictims of housing discrimination need not go through HUD or any other governmental agency to pursue their rights, however. The \"Fair Housing Act\" confers jurisdiction to hear cases on federal district courts. The United States Department of Justice also has jurisdiction to file cases on behalf of the United States where there is a pattern and practice of discrimination or where HUD has found discrimination in a case and either party elects to go to federal court instead of continuing in the HUD administrative process.\n\nThe \"Fair Housing Act\" applies to landlords renting or leasing space in their primary residence only if the residence contains living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by three or more other families living independently of each other, such as an owner-occupied rooming house.\n\nThe \"Fair Housing Act\" has been strengthened since its adoption in 1968, but enforcement continues to be a concern among housing advocates. According to a 2010 evaluation of Analysis of Impediments (AI) reports done by the Government Accountability Office, enforcement is particularly inconsistent across local jurisdictions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26638718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26638718", "title": "Faith and Philosophy", "text": "Faith and Philosophy\n\nFaith and Philosophy is a peer-reviewed academic journal sponsored by the Society of Christian Philosophers. Since 1984 it has published over 1,300 articles and reviews focused on the philosophical examination of religion and Christian faith. The journal is currently edited by Mark Murphy (Georgetown), and receives support from Asbury Theological Seminary and the University of Notre Dame. The journal is also supported by patrons who pledge annual contributions. Members of the Society for Christian Philosophers receive a print subscription to the journal as a benefit of membership. The journal is published by the Society in cooperation with the Philosophy Documentation Center. All issues are available online.\n\n\"Faith and Philosophy\" is abstracted and indexed in the ATLA Religion Database, Christian Periodical Index, MEDLINE, Periodicals Index Online, Philosopher's Index, Philosophy Research Index, PhilPapers, Religion Index One, Religious and Theological Abstracts, and Scopus.\n\n"}
{"id": "27281035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27281035", "title": "Fontaine de Léda", "text": "Fontaine de Léda\n\nThe Fontaine de Léda, also sometimes referred to as the Fontaine du Regard, is a Parisian sculptural wall fountain built in 1806–1808 during the reign of Napoleon Bonaparte. The fountain depicts the legend of Leda and the Swan, with a central bas-relief panel by Achille Valois. It was originally located at the corner of the rue de Vaugirard and rue du Regard, hence the alternative name; however, in 1864, during the reconstruction of Paris by Emperor Louis Napoleon, the fountain was moved to the back side of the Medici Fountain in the Luxembourg Garden, where it remains.\n\nThe Fontaine de Léda was one of fifteen new Paris fountains commissioned by Napoleon Bonaparte in his decree of Saint Cloud on May 2, 1806. It was the project of the engineer responsible for the water supply of Paris, François-Jean Bralle, and the young sculptor Achille Valois (1785–1862). It was built against the wall of a private garden. \n\nThe fountain is composed of a bas-relief sculpture raised on a pedestal, between two pilasters with a pediment on top. An eagle, wings outspread and holding a crown of laurel, once decorated the pediment; it represented Napoleon's empire. The pilasters are decorated with sculptures of two intertwined dolphins: the one on the right around a ship's help, and the one on the left around a trident.\n\nThe bas-relief itself shows Leda and the swan surrounded by roses. In one corner, Cupid shoots an arrow from his bow. Leda holds the swan on her knees and the water flows from the beak of the swan, which is made of bronze. The water falls into a semi-elliptical basin at the foot of the fountain.\n\nThe fountain was condemned by the critic Amaury Duval in 1812 because of the subject of the bas-relief, Jupiter transforming himself into a swan to seduce Leda. He said, \"Because of the ideas it calls to the imagination, this is hardly a suitable subject for a monument placed before the eyes of the public.\". Nonetheless, the fountain was popular with the public. Its major failing was a lack of abundant water. Like all of the Paris fountains built before the completion of the canals and aqueducts commanded by Napoleon, it lacked water pressure; the water could only trickle in a thin stream from the Swan's beak.\n\nIn the late 1850s, during Emperor Louis Napoleon's reconstruction of the center of Paris, the Rue de Rennes was extended, and the wall against which the fountain was placed needed to be demolished. The architect of city parks and promenades, Gabriel Davioud, himself a sculptor, sought a way to preserve the fountain. He searched in vain for a public park or building where he could put it, and finally settled upon the Luxembourg Garden, where the Medici Fountain was in the process of being moved and rebuilt. The architect Alphonse de Gisors installed the Léda Fountain in its new home in 1864, attaching it to the back of the Medici Fountain and adding a demi-cupole on top and two naiades by the sculptor , and three bronze masquerons, or spouts in the form of masks, at the bottom. It appears that another sculptor modified the pediment of the fountain to eliminate the eagle, the symbol of Napoleon's empire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16986293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16986293", "title": "Garden Valley, Yuba County, California", "text": "Garden Valley, Yuba County, California\n\nGarden Valley is a former settlement in Yuba County, California. It was located west-southwest of Camptonville, at an elevation of 1909 feet (582 m). It was inundated by Bullards Bar Reservoir.\n"}
{"id": "16257816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16257816", "title": "Global Jurist", "text": "Global Jurist\n\nGlobal Jurist is a peer-reviewed journal of legal scholarship. It focuses on comparative law, international law, law and economics, law and development and legal anthropology. Global Jurist favors a critical non-ethnocentric approach. It publishes articles in English Spanish and French.\n\n"}
{"id": "199185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199185", "title": "Globe Theatre", "text": "Globe Theatre\n\nThe Globe Theatre was a theatre in London associated with William Shakespeare. It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare's playing company, the Lord Chamberlain's Men, on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son, Nicholas Brend and grandson Sir Matthew Brend, and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613. A second Globe Theatre was built on the same site by June 1614 and closed by an Ordinance issued on 6 September 1642.\n\nA modern reconstruction of the Globe, named \"Shakespeare's Globe\", opened in 1997 approximately from the site of the original theatre. From 1909, the current Gielgud Theatre was called \"Globe Theatre\", until it was renamed (in honour of John Gielgud) in 1994.\n\nExamination of old property records has identified the plot of land occupied by the Globe as extending from the west side of modern-day Southwark Bridge Road eastwards as far as Porter Street and from Park Street southwards as far as the back of Gatehouse Square. However, the precise location of the building remained unknown until a small part of the foundations, including one original pier base, was discovered in 1989 by the Department of Greater London Archaeology (now Museum of London Archaeology) beneath the car park at the rear of Anchor Terrace on Park Street. The shape of the foundations is now replicated on the surface. As the majority of the foundations lies beneath 67—70 Anchor Terrace, a listed building, no further excavations have been permitted.\n\nThe Globe was owned by actors who were also shareholders in the Lord Chamberlain's Men. Two of the six Globe shareholders, Richard Burbage and his brother Cuthbert Burbage, owned double shares of the whole, or 25% each; the other four men, Shakespeare, John Heminges, Augustine Phillips, and Thomas Pope, owned a single share, or 12.5%. (Originally William Kempe was intended to be the seventh partner, but he sold out his share to the four minority sharers, leaving them with more than the originally planned 10%). These initial proportions changed over time as new sharers were added. Shakespeare's share diminished from 1/8 to 1/14, or roughly 7%, over the course of his career.\n\nThe Globe was built in 1599 using timber from an earlier theatre, The Theatre, which had been built by Richard Burbage's father, James Burbage, in Shoreditch in 1576. The Burbages originally had a 21-year lease of the site on which the theatre was built but owned the building outright. However, the landlord, Giles Allen, claimed that the building had become his with the expiry of the lease. On 28 December 1598, while Allen was celebrating Christmas at his country home, carpenter Peter Street, supported by the players and their friends, dismantled The Theatre beam by beam and transported it to Street's waterfront warehouse near Bridewell. With the onset of more favourable weather in the following spring, the material was ferried over the Thames to reconstruct it as The Globe on some marshy gardens to the south of Maiden Lane, Southwark. While only a hundred yards from the congested shore of the Thames, the piece of land was situated close by an area of farmland and open fields. It was poorly drained and, notwithstanding its distance from the river, was liable to flooding at times of particularly high tide; a \"wharf\" (bank) of raised earth with timber revetments had to be created to carry the building above the flood level. The new theatre was larger than the building it replaced, with the older timbers being reused as part of the new structure; the Globe was not merely the old Theatre newly set up at Bankside. It was probably completed by the summer of 1599, possibly in time for the opening production of \"Henry V\" and its famous reference to the performance crammed within a \"wooden O\". Dover Wilson, however, defers the opening date until September 1599, taking the \"wooden O\" reference to be disparaging and thus unlikely to be used in the Globe's inaugural staging. He suggests that a Swiss tourist's account of a performance of \"Julius Caesar\" witnessed on 21 September 1599 describes the more likely first production. The first performance for which a firm record remains was Jonson's \"Every Man out of His Humour\"—with its first scene welcoming the \"gracious and kind spectators\"—at the end of the year.\n\nOn 29 June 1613 the Globe Theatre went up in flames during a performance of \"Henry VIII\". A theatrical cannon, set off during the performance, misfired, igniting the wooden beams and thatching. According to one of the few surviving documents of the event, no one was hurt except a man whose burning breeches were put out with a bottle of ale. It was rebuilt in the following year.\n\nLike all the other theatres in London, the Globe was closed down by the Puritans in 1642. It was pulled down in 1644–45; the commonly cited document dating the act to 15 April 1644 has been identified as a probable forgery—to make room for tenements.\n\nA modern reconstruction of the theatre, named \"Shakespeare's Globe\", opened in 1997, with a production of \"Henry V\". It is an academic approximation of the original design, based on available evidence of the 1599 and 1614 buildings, and is located approximately from the site of the original theatre.\n\nIn February 2016, a temporary full-scale replica of the Second Globe Theatre, called the Pop-up Globe and based on scholarly reanalyses of the surviving evidence for the 1614 building, opened in downtown Auckland, New Zealand, and presented a three-month season of Shakespeare's plays performed by a house company and by visiting local production groups. It was reconstructed in a second Auckland location to host a three-month 2017 season.\n\nThe Globe's actual dimensions are unknown, but its shape and size can be approximated from scholarly inquiry over the last two centuries. The evidence suggests that it was a three-storey, open-air amphitheatre approximately in diameter that could house up to 3,000 spectators. The Globe is shown as round on Wenceslas Hollar's sketch of the building, later incorporated into his etched \"Long View of London from Bankside\" in 1647. However, in 1988–89, the uncovering of a small part of the Globe's foundation suggested that it was a polygon of 20 sides.\n\nAt the base of the stage, there was an area called the \"pit\", (or, harking back to the old inn-yards, \"yard\") where, for a penny, people (the \"groundlings\") would stand on the rush-strewn earthen floor to watch the performance. During the excavation of the Globe in 1989 a layer of nutshells was found, pressed into the dirt flooring so as to form a new surface layer. Vertically around the yard were three levels of stadium-style seats, which were more expensive than standing room. A rectangular stage platform, also known as an apron stage, thrust out into the middle of the open-air yard. The stage measured approximately in width, in depth and was raised about off the ground. On this stage, there was a trap door for use by performers to enter from the \"cellarage\" area beneath the stage.\n\nThe back wall of the stage had two or three doors on the main level, with a curtained inner stage in the centre (although not all scholars agree about the existence of this supposed \"inner below\"), and a balcony above it. The doors entered into the \"tiring house\" (backstage area) where the actors dressed and awaited their entrances. The floors above may have been used as storage for costumes and props and management offices. The balcony housed the musicians and could also be used for scenes requiring an upper space, such as the balcony scene in \"Romeo and Juliet\". Rush matting covered the stage, although this may only have been used if the setting of the play demanded it.\n\nLarge columns on either side of the stage supported a roof over the rear portion of the stage. The ceiling under this roof was called the \"heavens,\" and was painted with clouds and the sky. A trap door in the heavens enabled performers to descend using some form of rope and harness. The stage was set in the south-east corner of the building, so as to be in shade during afternoon performances in summer.\n\nThe name of the Globe supposedly alludes to the Latin tag \"totus mundus agit histrionem\", in turn derived from \"quod fere totus mundus exerceat histrionem\"—\"because all the world is a playground\"—from Petronius, which had wide circulation in England in the Burbages' time. \"Totus mundus agit histrionem\" was, according to this explanation, therefore adopted as the theatre's motto. Another allusion, familiar to the contemporary theatre-goer, would have been to \"Teatrum Mundi\", a meditation by the twelfth-century classicist and philosopher John of Salisbury, in his \"Policraticus\", book three. In either case, there would have been a familiar understanding of the classical derivation without the adoption of a formal motto.\n\nIt seems likely that the link between the supposed motto and the Globe was made only later, originating with the industrious early Shakespeare biographer William Oldys, who claimed as his source a private manuscript to which he once had access. This was repeated in good faith by his literary executor George Steevens, but the tale is now thought \"suspicious\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5349226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5349226", "title": "Gnome (rhetoric)", "text": "Gnome (rhetoric)\n\nA gnome (Greek: γνώμη \"gnome\", from γιγνώσκειν \"gignoskein\" \"to know\") is a type of saying, especially an aphorism or a maxim designed to provide instruction in a compact form (usually in the form of hexameter).\n\nThe term \"gnome\" was introduced by Klaus Berger in the \"Formgeschichte des Neuen Testaments\". He used this traditional term from the antique rhetoric and attempted to identify this rhetorical method in the New Testament.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "222303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222303", "title": "Gringo", "text": "Gringo\n\nA gringo (, , ) or gringa (female) is someone considered a foreigner from the perspective of Spanish and Portuguese-speaking countries in Latin America. In Spanish and English, \"gringo\" usually refers to an English-speaking foreigner, especially one from the United States. It often carries a derogatory connotation, particularly in English. Possible other connotations may include monolingualism, a lack of understanding of Hispanic culture, and blond hair. The word was originally used in Spain to denote any foreign, non-native speakers of Spanish.\n\nAccording to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", the first recorded use in English comes from John Woodhouse Audubon's \"Western Journal of 1849–1850\", in which Audubon reports that his party was hooted and shouted at and called \"Gringoes\" while passing through the town of Cerro Gordo, Veracruz.\n\nThe word \"gringo\" originally referred to any kind of foreigner. It was first recorded in 1787 in the Spanish \"Diccionario castellano con las voces de Ciencias y Artes\":\n\nThe most likely theory is that it originates from \"griego\" ('Greek'), used in the same way as the English phrase \"it's Greek to me\". Spanish is known to have used Greek as a stand-in for incomprehensibility, though now less common, such as in the phrase \"hablar en griego\" (lit. 'to speak Greek'). The 1817 \"Nuevo diccionario francés-español\", for example, gives \"gringo\" and \"griego\" as synonyms in this context:\nThis derivation requires two steps: \"griego\" > \"grigo\", and \"grigo\" > \"gringo\". Corominas notes that while the first change is common in Spanish (e.g. \"priesa\" to \"prisa\"), there is no perfect analogy for the second, save in Old French (\"Gregoire\" to \"Grigoire\" to \"Gringoire\"). However, there are other Spanish words whose colloquial form contains an epenthetic \"n\", such as \"gordiflón\" and \"gordinflón\" ('chubby'), and \"Cochinchina\" and \"Conchinchina\" ('South Vietnam'). It is also possible that the final form was influenced by the word \"jeringonza\", a game like Pig Latin also used to mean \"gibberish\".\n\nAlternatively, it has been suggested that \"gringo\" could derive from the Caló language, the language of the Romani people of Spain, as a variant of the hypothetical *\"peregringo\", 'peregrine', 'wayfarer', 'stranger'.\n\nThere are several conjectures within folk etymology that purport to derive the origin of \"gringo\" from word coincidences.\n\nMany theories date the word to the Mexican–American War (1846–1848), as a result of American troops singing a song which began with \"Green grows...\" such as \"Green Grow the Rushes, O\", \"Green Grow the Lilacs\", and various others. Other theories involve locals yelling \"Green, go!\" at invading American soldiers (sometimes in conflicts other than the Mexican–American War), in reference to their supposedly green uniforms. Another derives it from Irish \"Erin go bragh\" (\"Ireland forever\"), which served as the motto for Saint Patrick's Battalion who fought alongside the Mexican army.\n\nIn modern Spain, the word \"gringo\" is understood but rarely used. Nowadays, the closest equivalent vernacular is \"guiri\", or \"yanqui\" (yankee) for U.S. Americans of any regional origin, including Southerners. \"Gringo\" is only heard among Latin American immigrants or native Spaniards imitating their speech for fun or solidarity. These terms can be merely descriptive, derogatory or friendly depending on the context and situation.\n\nThe word \"gringo\" is mostly used in rural areas following the original Spanish meaning. \"Gringo\" in Argentina was used to refer to non-Spanish European immigrants who first established agricultural colonies in the country. The word was used for Swiss, German, Polish, Italian and other immigrants, but since the Italian immigrants were the larger group, the word used to be mostly linked to Italians in the \"lunfardo\" argot. It has also found use in the intermittent exercise Gringo-Gaucho between Argentine Naval Aviation and USN aircraft carriers.\n\nIn Brazil, the word gringo means simply foreigner, and has no connection to any physical characteristics or specific countries. Unlike most Hispanic American countries, in which gringo is never used to refer to other Latin Americans, in Brazil there is no such distinction in the use of the term. Most foreign footballers in the Brazilian Championship that came from other Latin American countries are nevertheless referred as \"gringos\" by the sport media and by sport fans. Tourists are called gringos, and there is no differentiation in the use of the term for Latin Americans or people from other regions, like Europe.\n\nAs the word has no connection to physical appearance in Brazil, black African or African American foreigners are also called gringos, unlike some other countries in which the term implies fair skin. Popularly used terms for fair-skinned and blond people are generally based in specific nationalities, like \"alemão\" (i.e., German), \"russo\" (Russian) or, in some regions, \"galego\" (Galician) which are used for both Brazilians and foreigners with such characteristics, regardless of their real ethnic origins.\n\nIn 1969, Jose Angel Gutierrez (one of the leaders of the Mexican American Youth Organization) said his and MAYO's use of the term, rather than referring to non-Latinos, referred to people or institutions with policies or attitudes that reflect racism and violence.\n\nIn Mexican cuisine, a \"gringa\" is a flour tortilla with al pastor pork meat with cheese, heated on a \"comal\" and optionally served with a \"salsa de chile\" (chilli sauce). The name is either a reference to the white flour used, or its creation, when two women from the United States asked a Mexico City \"taquería\" for a Mexican dish but disliked corn tortillas.\n"}
{"id": "28097527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28097527", "title": "Guillemette Andreu", "text": "Guillemette Andreu\n\nGuillemette Andreu-Lanoë (born August 3, 1948 in Paris), is a French Egyptologist and archaeologist. A former member of the French Institute of Oriental Archaeology of Cairo, she has been a curator and director of the Department of Egyptian Antiquities of the Louvre Museum since May 2007.\n\nAfter studying history, Andreu specialized in Egyptology (hieroglyphs, hieratic, Coptic) and produced a thesis on the law and order in Ancient Egypt at Sorbonne in 1978 under the direction of Professor Jean Leclant. Following this academic work, she was appointed scientific member of the French Institute of Oriental Archaeology in Cairo in 1978-1982.\n\nThere, for four years, she participated in excavations of this institute in the Nile Valley (Deir el-Medina), in the oases of the Western Desert (Balat at Dakhla Oasis, the at Kharga, and a Christian monastic site in the Nile Delta (the Kellia). Meanwhile, she continued research on Pharaonic Egypt and civil and administrative measures likely to have been taken during the daily lives of Egyptians at the Pharaonic era.\n\nTeaching Assistant at the Louvre's Egyptian department in 1982, she returned as design engineer in 1991 after a stint at the DRAC Ile-de-France. In 1997 she was appointed curator and was assigned to the Musée national du Moyen Age-Thermes de Cluny (Paris). In 1998 she was curator of the exhibition \"Egyptology, fantasy and science\" in Paris.\n\nAt the Louvre in 2001, she was curator of the exhibition on Deir el-Medina and the Valley of the Kings which was held there from 15 April to 5 August 2002, Brussels (RMAH) from September to January 2003 and in Turin from February to May 2003. The success of this exhibition (450,000 visitors in Paris) was exceptional. In 2005, she curated an exhibition in Nagoya, Fukuoka, Tokyo, Japan which attracted a great number of Japanese.\n\nShe has participated in excavations of the Louvre led by Christiane Ziegler on the site of Saqqara from 1993 to 2001. From 2003 to 2005 she directed the archaeological site of Deir el-Medina.\n\nIn May 2007 she was appointed Director of the Department of Egyptian Antiquities from the Louvre Museum.\n\nShe is chief curator of the exhibit \"Meroe\", presented at Louvre from March to September 2010.\n\nGuillemette Andreu is a member of the Scientific Council and Board of Directors of the IFAO, member of the scientific committee and joint Franco-Egyptian Centre's study of Karnak, a member of the Committee on Ministry searches Foreign and European Affairs, Member of the Scientific Committee of Egyptology Museum of Turin, scientific advisor of the future museum ethno-archaeological of Qena (near Dendera, and member of the reading committee of the Revue des Musées de France (Revue du Louvre).\n\nDecorations include the Chevalier des Arts et Lettres (2002) and the Chevalier of the Legion of Honour (2006)\n"}
{"id": "3660931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3660931", "title": "Heritage New Zealand", "text": "Heritage New Zealand\n\nHeritage New Zealand Pouhere Taonga (previously until 2014 named the New Zealand Historic Places Trust) () is a Crown entity with a membership of around 20,000 people that advocates for the protection of ancestral sites and heritage buildings in New Zealand. It was set up through the Historic Places Act 1954 with a mission to \"...promote the identification, protection, preservation and conservation of the historical and cultural heritage of New Zealand\" and is an autonomous Crown entity. Its current enabling legislation is the Heritage New Zealand Pouhere Taonga Act 2014.\nIt is governed by a Board of Trustees, currently chaired by Shonagh Kenderdine, and a Māori Heritage Council, currently chaired by Sir Tumu Te Heuheu. Past chairs include Dame Anne Salmond. The head office is in Antrim House, Wellington, while regional and area offices are in Kerikeri, Auckland, Tauranga, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.\n\nIt publishes the quarterly magazine \"New Zealand Heritage\".\nBuildings owned by Heritage New Zealand include the Mission House, the Stone Store, and the Te Waimate mission house.\n\nThe New Zealand Heritage List/Rārangi Kōrero (formerly known as the register of historic places) is divided into four main areas:\n\n\nThe historic places are organised in two categories:\n\n\n, the register contains over 5,600 entries. The Canterbury earthquakes of September 2010 and February 2011 resulted in damage to a number of historic buildings in Christchurch. Post-earthquake redevelopment has caused a significant loss of heritage buildings in Christchurch.\n\nThe Māori Heritage Council sits within the New Zealand Historic Places Trust and was established by the Historic Places Act 1993. The functions of the Council include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59151254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59151254", "title": "Hollywood Music in Media Award for Best Original Song in a Documentary", "text": "Hollywood Music in Media Award for Best Original Song in a Documentary\n\nThe Hollywood Music in Media Award for Best Original Song in a Documentary is one of the awards given annually to people working in the motion picture industry by the Hollywood Music in Media Awards (HMMA). It is presented to the songwriters who have composed the best \"original\" song, written specifically for a documentary film or series. The award was first given in 2014, during the fifth annual awards.\n"}
{"id": "16011771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16011771", "title": "Iaat", "text": "Iaat\n\nIaat ( also transliterated as Ya'ad, Yaad, Yaat, or Iaad) is a small town and municipality located in the Beqaa Valley of Lebanon mostly famous for its Corinthian column: it is a single column of unknown date approximately half way between Baalbek and Qasr el Banat with a cartouche on the 6th drum but no inscription. \n\nThe column stands at 18 meters (59.1 feet) it is installed on a 4-step base. The location of the Pillar is 4 miles (6 km) northwest of the Baalbek ruins, between the towns of Baalbek and Chlifa. At one point a plaque was installed on the northern side of the monument; however, it has been removed and no other history is known of the column, which is believed to be a funerary or celebrative monument. The column is also widely believed in local legend to be related to St. Helena.\n\nGeorge F. Taylor classified it among a group of Temples of the Beqaa Valley and noticed that the position of the Iaat column was equidistant between the temples of Baalbek and Qasr el Banat. \n\nWhilst technically not being a temple, Taylor suggested that the column might have been placed by the Romans where it is as a victory column to mark the site of a great ancient battle. He also noted a cartouche on the sixth cylinder of the column.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38787079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38787079", "title": "Kelsey Museum of Archaeology", "text": "Kelsey Museum of Archaeology\n\nThe Kelsey Museum of Archaeology is a museum of archaeology located on the University of Michigan central campus in Ann Arbor, Michigan, in the United States. The museum is a unit of the University of Michigan's College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. It has a collection of more than 100,000 ancient and medieval artifacts from the civilizations of the Mediterranean and the Near East. In addition to displaying its permanent and special exhibitions, the museum sponsors research and fieldwork and conducts educational programs for the public and for schoolchildren. The museum also houses the University of Michigan Interdepartmental Program in Classical Art and Archaeology.\n\nThe history of the museum begins before the museum was established. The founder of the university's collection of artifacts was Francis Kelsey, a professor of Latin at the University of Michigan from 1889 until his death in 1927. Kelsey began acquiring artifacts in 1893 in order to help his students understand the ancient world. In 1893, he made his first acquisitions: 108 lamps, vases, and building materials from Alfred Louis Delattre, the Jesuit priest and archaeologist who was conducting an excavation at Carthage in Tunisia, and another 1,096 objects from dealers in Tunis, Rome, Capri, and Sicily. Together with several thousand coins donated to the University of Michigan in the 1880s, these objects formed the core of the university's archaeological collections. Kelsey continued to acquire objects (by gift and purchase) for the university until he died in 1927. These artifacts included pottery, terracotta figurines, painted stucco, inscribed tombstones, daily life objects, glass, tombs, and papyri.\n\nIn 1924, Kelsey secured funding for excavations at sites around the Mediterranean and began to ship a large number of artifacts back to Ann Arbor. In 1924, he sent nearly 45,000 objects from Karanis, illustrating \"in detail how daily life was lived in Egypt under Roman rule.\" The same year, excavations at Seleucia-on-the-Tigris in Iraq yielded another 13,000 objects. In 1925, Kelsey commissioned the Italian artist Maria Barosso to paint a set of watercolor replicas of the murals of the Villa of the Mysteries at Pompeii, which now are housed in a special room in the Upjohn Exhibit Wing.\n\nThe building that now houses the museum was originally built for the Students' Christian Association for religious services and other meetings and activities. It was designed by the Detroit architectural firm of Spier & Rohns. Construction began in 1888 and was completed in 1891.\n\nThe building is described as a \"massive, asymmetrical Richardsonian Romanesque building of rough-cut, randomly placed local fieldstone.\" The building has a hip roof broken by parapeted cross-gables, with a facade \"dominated by a projecting three-story corner turret topped by a conical roof\"; \"decorative colonettes, arches, and regularly coursed variegated brick bandcourses break the heaviness of the imposing stone structure.\" The building was dedicated on July 21, 1891 at a cost of $40,000 and was named Newberry Hall—a name still engraved on the building's front—in honor of railroad magnate John S. Newberry, whose widow Helen Newberry contributed $18,000 toward the building's construction.\n\nThe university leased Newberry Hall in 1921 for classroom space, housed its collection of ancient artifacts there from 1928, and finally purchased the building in 1937. In 1953, the museum was named in honor of Kelsey. Newberry Hall was designated as a Michigan State Historic Site on August 13, 1971, and was added to the National Register of Historic Places on March 24, 1972. It is one of the oldest still-standing buildings on the University of Michigan campus.\n\nBy the early 1990s the museum was experiencing overcrowding, deterioration of artifacts, and lack of adequate storage space. It was closed in July 1993 for renovations and reopened in October 1994. During that time, a new third floor was added in space formerly occupied by a choir loft (from the building's Christian Association period) and a new climate-controlled Sensitive Artifact Facility and Environment space was added to maintain \"appropriate storage, humidity, and temperature requirements for optimal artifact longevity.\" A new registry, conservation lab, objects study area, water-sprinkler fire control system, security system, and elevator to the new third floor were added. The building was also made more handicapped accessible. The $1.3 million project was funded by a $250,000 gift from Eugene M. and Emily Grant of New York City, along with grants from the University of Michigan and the National Endowment for the Humanities, as well as funding from the Kelsey Museum Associates and other private contributions.\n\nIn 2003, Edwin and Mary Meader of Kalamazoo, Michigan, longtime benefactors of the university, gave an $8 million gift to expand the museum by the addition of a new wing in the back of the museum. At the time, this was the largest gift in the history of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. The Meader gift, along with a $200,000 challenge grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities, covered all of the project's $8.2 million cost. The Chicago-based architectural firm of Hammond Beeby Rupert Ainge Inc. designed the new addition. In 2009, the William E. Upjohn Exhibit Wing was completed, adding more than 20,000 feet of study, storage, and display space in a climate-controlled facility; the new space allowed the museum, which previously had been displaying less than 1 percent of its collection, to dramatically expand the number of artifacts on public display. The wing was named after Mary Meader's grandfather William E. Upjohn, the noted pharmacist. The building reopened to the public in November 2009\n\nThe Kelsey Museum's permanent exhibition on display in the William E. Upjohn Exhibit Wing features many artifacts and artworks from the ancient and medieval world in the Mediterranean and Near East. The collection includes ancient Egyptian, Near Eastern, Greek, Roman, Etruscan, Coptic, Persian, and Islamic archaeological artifacts. In addition to its more than 100,000 artifacts, the collection is also home to some rare objects important to the study of archaeology, excavation records, and an archive of 25,000 archaeological and fine arts photographs.\"\n\nAmong the museum's most significant holdings are:\n\n\nThe collection also includes a colorfully-painted ancient Egyptian mummy; amulets; a variety of glass vessels, ancient Greek pottery; and ancient Roman sculpture.\n\nThe Kelsey Museum has conducted fieldwork for over 80 years. Its past excavations and other fieldwork have taken place at the following archaeological sites:\n\n\nThe Kelsey Museum is currently sponsoring the following fieldwork:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18069727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18069727", "title": "Lifeway", "text": "Lifeway\n\nThe expression lifeway is a fairly new technical term that is not yet in most general dictionaries and for which most textbooks instead still use \"way of life\". The \"American Heritage Dictionary\" defines a lifeway as: \"1. A customary manner of living; a way of life. 2. A custom, practice, or art: \"the traditional lifeways of a tribal society.\"\"\n\nIn several disciplines, \"lifeway\" is used in the sense of the ecological position of human beings within a larger ecosystem - such as a food web. It is studied by cultural ecology, anthropological linguistics, and cultural anthropology. The most basic distinction usually made between lifeways is that between the hunter-gatherer (including fishers) and that of the farmer (including the shepherd, goatherd or rancher) who domesticates wildlife to raise for food and clothing.\n\nUrban lifeways (trading on relationships or information, manufacturing which requires infrastructural capital at hand, etc.) are studied by urban economics but are also technically lifeways in the same sense as that of the hunter-gatherer and farmer.\n\n"}
{"id": "429118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429118", "title": "Linguistics and the Book of Mormon", "text": "Linguistics and the Book of Mormon\n\nAccording to most adherents of the Latter Day Saint movement, the Book of Mormon is a 19th-century translation of a record of ancient inhabitants of the American continent, which was written in a script which the book refers to as \"reformed Egyptian\". This claim, as well as virtually all claims to historical authenticity of the Book of Mormon, are generally rejected by non-Latter Day Saint historians and scientists. Linguistically based assertions are frequently cited and discussed in the context of the subject of the Book of Mormon, both in favor of and against the book's claimed origins.\n\nBoth critics and promoters of the Book of Mormon have used linguistic methods to analyze the text. Promoters have published claims of stylistic forms that Joseph Smith and his contemporaries are unlikely to have known about, as well as similarities to Egyptian and Hebrew. Critics of the Book of Mormon claim there are places where the language is anachronistic and suggestive of a 19th-century origin consistent with Smith's upbringing and life experience, as well as the books and other literature published just preceding the time that the Book of Mormon was published.\n\nA problem with linguistic reviews of the Book of Mormon is that the claimed original text is either unavailable for study or never existed. Smith said that he returned the golden plates to an angel after he finished the translation.\n\nIn 1922, LDS Church general authority B. H. Roberts conducted an in-depth review of the research regarding language development and dialects among the Native American peoples; Roberts's study which was published posthumously in 1985 as \"Studies of the Book of Mormon\".\n\nUnder the assumption that the majority of Native Americans descend from the peoples described in the Book of Mormon, Roberts noted that linguistic evidence among the Native American peoples does not appear to support the Book of Mormon narrative, inasmuch as the diverse language stocks and dialects that exist would not have had enough time to develop from a single language dating from A.D. 400 (the approximate date of the conclusion of the Book of Mormon record). Roberts noted:\n\nApologists from FARMS have published studies that claim that the linguistic evidence cited by Roberts does not necessarily contradict the narrative of the Book of Mormon. Specifically, if one adheres to the limited geography model, then it is possible that many of the peoples of the Book of Mormon are not the principal ancestors of the Native Americans.\n\nCritics of the Book of Mormon have claimed that a variety of linguistic anachronisms exist in it which cast doubt upon its historical authenticity. Linguistic anachronisms in the Book of Mormon are words that represent concepts that are not believed to have existed in the Americas between 2500 B.C. and A.D. 400, or in the Jewish world of Lehi's time—the period of history covered by the narrative of the Book of Mormon. Mormon apologists dispute these claims, with some arguing that during the translation of the golden plates, Smith may have chosen words that he knew that were closest in meaning to the original concept written on the plates (i.e., a \"translator's anachronism\").\n\nThe words \"Christ\" and \"Messiah\" are used several hundred times throughout the Book of Mormon. The first instance of the word \"Christ\" dates to between 559 and 545 B.C. The first instance of the word \"Messiah\" dates to about 600 B.C.\n\n\"Christ\" is the English transliteration of the Greek word Χριστός (transliterated as Christós); it is relatively synonymous with the Hebrew word משיח, pronounced and rendered \"Messiah\".\" Both words have the meaning of \"anointed,\" and are used in the Bible to refer to \"the Anointed One\". In Greek translations of the Old Testament (including the Septuagint), the word \"Christ\" is used for the Hebrew \"Messiah\", and in Hebrew translations of the New Testament, the word \"Messiah\" is used for the Greek \"Christ\". Any passage in the Bible that uses the word \"Christ\" can substitute the word \"Messiah\" or \"the Messiah\" with no change in meaning (e.g., ).\n\nThe Book of Mormon uses both terms throughout the book. In the vast majority of cases, it uses the terms in an identical manner as the Bible, where it does not matter which word is used:\n\nRichard Packham argues that the Greek word \"Christ\" in the Book of Mormon challenges the authenticity of the work since Smith clearly stated that \"there was no Greek or Latin upon the plates from which I, through the grace of the Lord, translated the Book of Mormon.\"\n\nApologists note that the word \"Christ\" is a translational equivalent to the term \"Messiah\", arguing that \"it is no more anachronistic for pre-Christian era Book of Mormon peoples to believe in a coming Messiah/Christ than it was for Old Testament prophets to believe in a coming Messiah/Christ.\"\n\nThe word \"church\" first occurs in 1 Nephi 4:26, where a prophet named Nephi disguises himself as Laban, a prominent man in Jerusalem whom Nephi had slain:\n\nAnd he [Laban's servant], supposing that I spake of the brethren of the church, and that I was truly that Laban whom I had slain, wherefore he did follow me ().\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, this exchange happened in Jerusalem, around 600 B.C. The meaning of the word \"church\" in the Book of Mormon is more comparable to usage in the Bible than Modern English. The concept of a church, meaning \"a convocation of believers\", existed among the House of Israel prior to Christianity. For instance, Psalms speaks of praising the Lord \"in the congregation of the saints\"; the Septuagint contains the Greek word \"ecclesia\" for \"congregation,\" which is also translated as \"church\" in the New Testament.\n\nA similar question regards the word \"synagogue\", found in Alma 16:13:\n\nAnd Alma and Amulek went forth preaching repentance to the people in their temples, and in their sanctuaries, and also in their synagogues, which were built after the manner of the Jews ().\n\nCritics of the Book of Mormon note that synagogues did not exist in their modern form before the destruction of the temple and the Babylonian captivity. The oldest known synagogue is located in Delos, Greece, and has been dated to 150 B.C. Mormon apologist William J. Adams cites archaeologist Lee I. Levine in suggesting that synagogues did in fact exist before the Babylonian captivity, though in a different form.\n\nCritics Jerald and Sandra Tanner and Marvin W. Cowan contend that certain linguistic properties show possible anachronisms in the text which question its claim as a historical document.\nThese critics cite linguistic anachronisms such as:\n\nGee, Roper and Tvedtnes report that the name \"Sam\" is found on a bronze ringmounted seal dated in the 7th century B.C. They also note that the name \"Samuel\" in Hebrew is a combination of two words—\"Shem\" and \"El\". In early Hebrew, the same letter was used for \"s\" and \"sh\" and vowels were not specified. Judges 12:6 demonstrates that the tribe of Joseph pronounced the letter that Shem began with as \"s\". The Book of Mormon states that Lehi was a descendant of Joseph.\n\nApologists contend that the anachronism of the French word \"adieu\", and others, may have been the result of Smith choosing the best word available to convey the meaning of the original text.\n\nCraig L. Blomberg has pointed out several verses in the Book Mormon apparently similar to biblical verses in the King James version of the Bible. According to Blomberg, includes overt references to , , , and were most likely written with their direct influence in mind. Furthermore, Blomberg claims that contains allusions to . Blomberg summarizes his overall position on Book of Mormon anachronisms as follows: \"Indeed, the entire Book of Mormon abounds with explicit references to Christ, to his life and ministry and to the three persons of the Godhead long before New Testament times ... even though none of these concepts or terms ever appear in these forms in the Old Testament or any other ancient Jewish literature.\"\n\nChiasmus is a form of rhetorical parallelism wherein key ideas familiar to the reader are inverted, usually for some kind of emphasis. Chiasmus appears in many languages, including English, Ugaritic, Biblical Hebrew, Aramaic, Greek, and Latin. It is found in the Bible and other ancient Middle Eastern poetry\n\nExamples of chiasmus can be found in the Book of Mormon. Some have argued chiasmus is evidence of the text's historical authenticity, suggesting it reflects the Semitic background of Nephi and other authors of the Book of Mormon. They claim that such findings support claims of Hebrew origins in the text on the basis that chiasmus is often found in Hebrew texts such as the Bible.\n\nIn 1969, John W. Welch discovered a variety of instances of chiasmus in the Book of Mormon and along with his discovery came attention to the phenomenon. The most commonly cited example of chiasmus in the Book of Mormon is the prophet Alma's religious experience, as recorded in . Welch claims that it is unlikely, although not impossible, that Smith knew about chiasmus at the time of the Book of Mormon's publication, which implies that chiasmus could only be present in the text if indeed the text is a translation and not a fabrication.\n\nOthers argue that chiasmus is not necessarily evidence of Hebrew origin.\n\nStill others disagree on the extent to which chiasmus occurs in the text. With regard to the Alma chapter 36 chiasmus, one critic alleges that Welch \"fashioned a chiasm by selecting elements from repetitious language, creatively labeling elements, ignoring text, pairing unbalanced elements, and even including asymmetrical elements\".\n\nWelch himself offers the following caution regarding a tendency of enthusiastic readers to see chiasmus where it is not actually present:\n\nSome people, of course, have gone overboard with this search, and caution must be employed; otherwise, it is possible to find chiasmus in the telephone book, and the effort becomes meaningless . ... One must be careful in this quest, however, to avoid the problems of the 'hammer syndrome'—to the person holding a hammer, everything looks like a nail. To the person who knows only chiasmus and no other form of literary composition, everything may start looking like a chiasm.\n\nHugh W. Pinnock, an LDS Church general authority, stated:\n\nBecause the study of Hebrew writing forms in the Book of Mormon can strengthen testimony and be quite exciting, a number of researchers and laypersons have become overly enthusiastic, much to the detriment of the subject and integrity of their studies.\n\nCritics argue that there is no correlation between the appearance of chiasmus and the authenticity of the Book of Mormon because, among other things, chiasmus appears in many languages including eighteenth- and nineteenth-century English literature.\n\nSome claim writings in the form of chiasmus can also be found in the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price, two other works of scripture in the LDS canon that were dictated by Smith. Critics believe this supports their claim that Smith knew about chiasmus, and that it may have been a characteristic of his personal writing style.\n\nApologists argue these examples should be considered a type of sporadic repetition rather than the full-fledged chiasmus that is claimed to be found in . Charles G. Kroupa and Richard C. Shipp are notable for publishing arguments for chiasmus in the Doctrine and Covenants in 1972. In 1975, Shipp also produced a masters thesis titled, \"Conceptual Patterns of Repetition in the Doctrine and Covenants and Their Implications\" claiming that writings found in the Doctrine and Covenants had literary patterns similar to chiasmus. In 2004, a study was published by LDS researchers which used statistical analysis to determine the likelihood that a chiastic structure in LDS works appeared by chance as opposed to being created deliberately. Mathematical formulas were used to calculate a set of probabilities that provided the ability to distinguish between strong and weak chiastic structures. The authors concluded:\n\nBased on these estimates, we conclude that the likelihood is high that chiastic structure appeared by design in the Pentateuch and in the Book of Mormon. Our estimates do not support such a conclusion for the Doctrine and Covenants [or] the Book of Abraham ... indicating instead that chiasms could have appeared in these works by chance.\n\nChiastic patterns have also been found in the Book of the Law of the Lord, a purported translation of an ancient text by James J. Strang. This book is not considered authentic by most Latter Day Saints.\n\nCritics point out that the presence of chiasmus in Strang's writing as well as in the literature of other cultures implies that the source could be non-Hebrew. Additionally, they claim that the examination of a post-translation text might make identifying chiasmus in the original language difficult, and that the presence of chiasmus is not necessarily indicative of ancient origins.\n\nStylometry is a method of statistical analysis used to determine authorship of various texts. It has been used to analyze disputed works of Shakespeare, contrast books of the Bible, identify the authors of twelve disputed \"Federalist Papers\", and compare styles of various authors such as Jane Austen. In 1980, researchers at Brigham Young University used stylometric techniques they called \"wordprint analysis\" to examine the possible authors of the Book of Mormon. They reached the conclusion that none of the Book of Mormon selections they studied resembled writings of any of the suggested nineteenth-century authors, including Joseph Smith.\n\nJerald and Sandra Tanner challenged these findings on various points, most notably questioning the reliability of the data sources used and the methodology of the \"wordprint analysis.\" Additionally, D. James Croft wrote in \"Sunstone\" that there were several flaws in the methodology that were vulnerable to criticism.\n\nA more sophisticated approach was taken by Mormon researcher John Hilton and his non-LDS colleagues at Berkeley, who \"went to great pains to immunize the methodology from criticism\" through the use of control tests.\n\nThe Berkeley group first used a variety of control tests with non-disputed authors (e.g., works by Mark Twain, and translated works from German) in an effort to:\n\n\nHilton concluded that, if wordprinting is a valid technique, then this analysis suggests that it is \"statistically indefensible\" to claim that Smith, Oliver Cowdery, or Solomon Spalding wrote the 30,000 words in the Book of Mormon attributed to Nephi and Alma.\n\nOne prominent Mormon scholar, John A. Tvedtnes, has rejected the use of wordprint evidence as the foundation for a testimony of the Book of Mormon's validity, though he did not dismiss its possible usefulness as a scientific tool to investigate the book's origins. Upon review of the Berkeley study, another scholar, Kevin L. Barney, remains unconvinced of the validity of wordprint analysis:\n\nI have always felt that the basis assumptions underlying Book of Mormon wordprint studies are faulty. I concur with the assessment of John Tvedtnes, who points out that (1) an English translation should reflect the language of the translator rather than the original author, and (2) the particles used in wordprint studies (such as \"of\") are often non-existent in Hebrew, which tends to use syntax to express the meaning of English particles.\n\nHowever, in the same article, Barney confessed, \"I frankly do not understand the statistics well enough to offer a useful critique of the studies.\"\n\nIn a peer-reviewed study using a traditional authorship method and a new pattern-classification technique, several researchers at Stanford University concluded that Sidney Rigdon, Solomon Spalding, and Oliver Cowdery were more likely to have written the book out of a pool of authors that also included Parley P. Pratt and two statistical control authors (Henry Wadsworth Longfellow and Joel Barlow). Smith was not included in the pool of authors because a set of original works written by Smith alone could not be identified with confidence. However, this study only examined the relative likelihood of the five above-mentioned authors writing the Book of Mormon, not the possibility of an author or authors outside the five-person pool . Another study was published in the same journal that critiqued the methodology used in the earlier study and, using Smith's personal writings written in his own handwriting, concluded that stylometric evidence supports neither Smith nor a Spalding–Rigdon authorship.\n\nNon-Mormon Thomas Donofrio has found hundreds of parallels between peculiar wordings in the Book of Mormon and the writings of well-known historical and religious figures of the 18th and 19th centuries. Unlike the earlier studies, Donofrio's research has not been peer-reviewed. Respondents to this study point out that the use of parallels to prove derivation can be used to illogical extremes.\n\nLatter-day Saints claim that the Book of Mormon is a translation, not originally written by Smith, but translated into the language with which he was familiar. While wordprint studies may be compelling, apologists argue that the inclusion of modern phraseology should not surprise anyone. The word \"book\", for example, was not used by the ancient Hebrews. Yet both in the King James Version of the Bible and the Book of Mormon, the word appears anachronistically. Mormon apologists also point out that this could well be the logical result of an ancient work translated by a modern man using the wording best suited to convey the ideas to a modern reader.\n\nApologists note that many of the proper names in the Book of Mormon are Hebrew names found in the Bible (e.g., \"Lehi\", \"Lemuel\", \"Ammon\", and \"Enos\"). Tvedtnes, Gee and Roper argue that there are a number of Hebrew names found in the Book of Mormon which do not appear in the Bible but occur in other ancient sources. Examples of these are \"Aha\", \"Ammonihah\", \"Chemish\", \"Hagoth\", \"Himni\", \"Isabel\", \"Jarom\", \"Josh\", \"Luram\", \"Mathoni\", \"Mathonihah\", \"Muloki\", and \"Sam\". Hugh Nibley also states that many non-biblical names found in the Book of Mormon resemble words from ancient Hebrew (e.g., \"Sariah\", \"Jarom\", and \"Josh\"). Some names, like \"Alma\", are attested Hebrew names. Milton R. Hunter and Thomas Ferguson allege that Hebraic fragments and roots appear discernible in Nephite/Mulekite names such as \"Zarahemla\". These names are often interpreted as evidence in favor of the Book of Mormon, since Smith's knowledge of Hebrew was limited to names found in the Bible.\n\nCritics have pointed out that many of the names in the Book of Mormon that are not drawn from the King James Bible are found in the local environment around Palmyra, New York, and would have been known to Smith. Richard Packham has pointed out that several Biblical Hebrew names, including \"Aaron\", \"Ephraim\", and \"Levi\" are listed as Jaredites in the Book of Ether. He argues that these are anachronisms, since the Jaredites are supposed to have originated from the time of the Tower of Babel, and presumably did not speak Hebrew.\n\nMormon archaeologist Bruce W. Warren has noted that some Jaredite names may have become a part of later Nephite culture, suggesting that there may have been survivors or refugees of the great Jaredite battle besides Coriantumr. He cites the names \"Kib\", \"Kish\", \"Shule\", and \"Com\" as examples of Jaredite names that are similar to names found in ancient Mesoamerica.\n\nJohn Gee, John A. Tvedtnes, and Hugh Nibley argue that some Book of Mormon names appear to be Egyptian. Tvedtnes, Gee, and Roper note that William F. Albright considered the names \"Paanchi\" and \"Pahoran\" to be Egyptian names. In his book \"Lehi in the Desert\", Nibley compares names found in the Book of Mormon with ancient Egyptian names from Upper Egypt. The comparisons show that many names in the Book of Mormon are similar to names in a certain region and era of ancient Egypt. Nibley postulates that names do not match exactly due to the process of metathesis. Parallels drawn by Nibley between Egyptian names and Book of Mormon names include \"Paanchi\" and \"Pahoran\", and further include several others including \"Korihor\" (Kherihor, a high priest at Thebes) and \"Morianton\" (Meriaton, an Egyptian prince), and \"Ammon\" (Amun, the most common name in ancient Egypt).\n\nThomas Finley has disagreed with these claims. Critics claim that the parallels drawn by Nibley and others ignore the possibility of simple coincidence and lack a defined methodology for assessing the importance of the parallels. Tvetdnes and Roper responded by noting that there are too many coincidences for such an assessment to be credible.\n\nSmith, in a letter written in 1843 to the Mormon publication \"Millennial Star\", wrote that the name \"Mormon\" came from \"the Egyptian Mon, hence with the addition of more, or the contraction, mor, we have the word Mormon, which means, literally, more good.\" Benjamin Urrutia suggests the name \"Mormon\" is derived from Egyptian \"mor\" (\"love\") and \"mon\" (\"firmly established\"), rendering \"Mormon\" as \"love is firmly established.\" Packham criticizes Smith's interpretation, stating that the English word \"more\" or \"mor\" is out of place in an Egyptian name.\n\nSmith stated in a letter to the editor of \"Times and Seasons\", \"there was no Greek or Latin upon the plates from which I, through the grace of the Lord, translated the Book of Mormon.\" Brian D. Stubbs has stated that though the language of the Mulekites isn't put forward in the Book of Mormon, it could have consisted of Phoenician, Greek, or Arabic.\n\nRichard Packham has pointed out that the Book of Mormon contains some Greek and Latin names, some of which are hellenizations of Hebrew names (e.g., \"Antipas\", \"Archeantus\", \"Esrom\", \"Ezias\", \"Judea\", and \"Zenos\") and some of which are Greek or Latin.\n\nThe mechanics of the method by which the Book of Mormon was claimed to have been translated have been examined by various scholars in order to determine how words were chosen. Various accounts from witnesses to the translation process exist, including David Whitmer and Martin Harris, two of the Three Witnesses. Statements of the exact methods used in translation vary depending upon the account. A number of these accounts were written many years after the events occurred.\n\nLDS Church authorities do not claim to know the exact method by which translation and word choice was accomplished. In an address given in 1992 at a seminar for new mission presidents at the Missionary Training Center, church apostle Russell M. Nelson stated that \"[t]he details of this miraculous method of translation are still not fully known.\" In order to illustrate this, Nelson quoted the words Whitmer, who wrote regarding the use of a seer stone in the translation process over 50 years after it had occurred,\n\nJoseph Smith would put the seer stone into a hat, and put his face in the hat, drawing it closely around his face to exclude the light; and in the darkness the spiritual light would shine. A piece of something resembling parchment would appear, and on that appeared the writing. One character at a time would appear, and under it was the interpretation in English. Brother Joseph would read off the English to Oliver Cowdery, who was his principal scribe, and when it was written down and repeated to Brother Joseph to see if it was correct, then it would disappear, and another character with the interpretation would appear. Thus the Book of Mormon was translated by the gift and power of God, and not by any power of man.\nNelson also noted statements made by Smith's wife Emma, who gave her account of the translation method in 1856:\n\nWhen my husband was translating the Book of Mormon, I wrote a part of it, as he dictated each sentence, word for word, and when he came to proper names he could not pronounce, or long words, he spelled them out, and while I was writing them, if I made any mistake in spelling, he would stop me and correct my spelling although it was impossible for him to see how I was writing them down at the time. Even the word Sarah he could not pronounce at first, but had to spell it, and I would pronounce it for him.\n\nMartin Harris (as quoted by Edward Stevenson in the \"Deseret News\" in 1881) described the translation process as follows:\n\nBy aid of the seer stone, sentences would appear and were read by the Prophet . ... [W]hen finished [Smith] would say \"Written,\" and if correctly written that sentence would disappear and another appear in its place, but if not written correctly it remained until corrected, so that the translation was just as it was engraven on the plates, precisely in the language then used.\n\nOne challenge in performing a linguistic analysis of the Book of Mormon is that no original text is available for analysis; only handwritten printers' copies transcribed from the original handwritten copies of the original English text, and a few pages of the original translation produced by Smith are available. As with any translation, the influence of the translator is inextricably part of the translated text in matters of word choice. Some Mormon scholars have theorized that when words are found in the Book of Mormon that seem anachronistic, or that refer to items not known to have existed in the pre-Columbian Americas during the period of time covered by the Book of Mormon (e.g., horse, elephant, chicken, cattle, swine, barley, bull, calf, and hilt), these words could be an approximation \"in translation\" to things that \"did\" exist in pre-Columbian America.\n\nOne common criticism of the authenticity of the Book of Mormon is the belief that, if the accounts of the translation process are accurate, then there is very little room for error in the word choices used in the translation of the Book of Mormon (since each word was believed to be divinely approved and could not be written incorrectly). In other words, \"steel\" must mean steel, \"hilt\" must mean hilt, \"elephant\" must mean elephant, and so forth. However, as Whitmer was never directly involved in the translation and Harris was involved for only a brief period of time, Mormon apologists consider it unlikely that either of these accounts is as accurate as the accounts of Smith and Cowdery.\n\nSeveral critics have pointed to grammatical errors in the Early Modern English style of the Book of Mormon and made the argument that because the original MS, the printer's MS, and the first edition of the Book of Mormon appear to have contained hundreds of grammatical errors, the book was therefore fabricated by Smith and not divinely inspired. Examples include (standard citations given):\n\nApologist Stanford Carmack has responded to this issue by providing evidence of Early Modern English usage of the above forms: \"many ostensibly defective forms reflect usage from earlier stages of the English language. Most of these are clearly attested in the textual record of EModE and even late ME—some frequently, some rarely. ... BofM language is, generally speaking, only nonstandard from our standpoint, centuries after the Elizabethan era, which appears to be the epicenter of the book's syntax.\"\n\nLDS Church apostle George A. Smith responded to this issue: \"[when] the Lord reveals anything to men He reveals it in language that accords with their own. If any of you were to converse with an angel, and you used strictly grammatical language he would do the same. But if you used two negatives in a sentence the heavenly messenger would use language to correspond with your understanding, and this very objection to the Book of Mormon is an evidence in its favor.\"\n\nCritics of Book of Mormon linguistic studies often reject the claims of Mormon scholars on the grounds that the parallels they draw between Book of Mormon and other sources amounts to \"parallelomania\", which is defined as the \"over use or improper use of parallels in the exposition of a text.\"\n\nOne researcher, Douglas F. Salmon, alleged that Mormon scholars' work in drawing parallels between the Book of Mormon and other sources fits this classification. Salmon notes:\n\nThere has been an exegetical trend during the last several decades to draw endless parallels to text from the ancient Near East and beyond in an attempt to validate the writings in the Book of Mormon and Pearl of Great Price. The pioneer and leader in this effort has been the great LDS scholar Hugh Nibley. In recent years the Foundation for Ancient Research and Mormon Studies (FARMS) has continued this legacy. The number of parallels that Nibley has been able to uncover from amazingly disparate and arcane sources is truly staggering. Unfortunately, there seems to be a neglect of any methodological reflection or articulation in this endeavor.\n\nSalmon also notes that Nibley was a critic of parallelomania where it is used to disparage the Book of Mormon, despite his extensive scholarship on the subject in defense of the Book of Mormon, noting that Nibley \"ignores\" the fact that parallels may suggest a unity of religious thought, or simple coincidence. He also goes on to demonstrate several instances where Nibley misrepresented the parallels and jumped to conclusions regarding the significance of his examples.\n\nSalmon's analysis of Nibley was itself later critiqued in a response to his article from William Hamblin of FARMS. Among other things, Hamblin criticized Salmon for critiquing a few weakly supported parallels made by Nibley while ignoring both much more strongly supported parallels made by Nibley and \"a broader analysis\" of Nibley's arguments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34063735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34063735", "title": "List of Shakespeare plays in quarto", "text": "List of Shakespeare plays in quarto\n\nNineteen of William Shakespeare's plays first appeared in quarto before the publication of the First Folio in 1623, eighteen of those before his death in 1616. One play co-authored with John Fletcher, \"The Two Noble Kinsmen\", was first published in 1634, and one play first published in the First Folio, \"The Taming of the Shrew\", was later published in quarto. Following are listed the Shakespeare plays that appeared in quarto up to 1642 with complete title page information from each edition.\n\nQ1 1594\n\nTHE | First part of the Con= | tention betwixt the two famous Houses of Yorke | and Lancaster, with the death of the good | Duke Humphrey: | And the banishment and death of the Duke of | \"Suffolke\", and the Tragicall end of the proud Cardinall | of \"VVinchester\", vvith the notable Rebellion | of \"Iacke Cade\": | \"And the Duke of Yorkes first claime vnto the | Crowne. | LONDON | Printed by Thomas Creed, for Thomas Millington, | and are to be sold at his shop vnder Saint Peters | Church in Cornwall. | 1594.\n\nThe play known as \"King Henry VI, Part 2\" was entered into the Stationers Register 12 March 1594 and printed that same year by Thomas Creede for Thomas Millington. As it appears in the First Folio, the play is about a third longer than the first quarto version. Most scholars agree that the 1594 version as printed is a memorial reconstruction, or bad quarto, but they are divided as to whether it is based on the full folio version or an abridged and possibly revised version of the play. STC 26099; 64 pages.\n\nQ2 1600\n\nTHE | First part of the Con- | tention betwixt the two famous hou- | \"ses of Yorke and Lancaster, with the\" | death of the good Duke | Humphrey: And the banishment and death of the Duke of | Suffolke, and the Tragical end of the prowd Cardinall | \"of Winchester, with the notable Rebellion of\" | \"Iacke Cade:\" | \"And the Duke of Yorkes first clayme to the | Crowne\". | LONDON | Printed by Valentine Simmes for Thomas Millington, and | are to be sold at his shop vnder S. Peters Church | in Cornewall. | 1600.\n\nQ3 1619 (not dated, printed with \"Henry VI, Part 3\" as part of Thomas Pavier's False Folio)\n\nTHE Whole Contention | betvveene the two Famous | Houses, LANCASTER and | YORKE. | \"With the Tragicall ends of the good Duke\" | Humfrey, Richard Duke of Yorke, | \"and King Henrie the\" | \"sixt\". | Diuided into two Parts: And newly corrected and | enlarged. Written by \"William Shake-\" | \"speare\", Gent. | Printed at LONDON, for T. P.\n\nQ1 1594\n\nTHE | MOST LA- | mentable Romaine | Tragedie of Titus Andronicus: | As it was Plaide by the Right Ho- | nourable the Earle of \"Darbie\", Earle of \"Pembrooke\", | and Earle of \"Sussex\" their Seruants. | LONDON, | Printed by Iohn Danter, and are | to be sold by \"Edward White\" & \"Thomas Millington\", | at the little North doore of Paules at the | signe of the Gunne. | 1594.\n\nQ2 1600\n\nThe most lamenta- | ble Romaine Tragedie of \"Titus\" | \"Andronicus\". | As it hath sundry times beene playde by the | Right Honourable the Earle of Pembrooke, the | Earle of Darbie, the Earle of Sussex, and the | Lorde Chamberlaine theyr | Seruants. | AT LONDON | Printed by I. R. for Edward White | and are to bee sold at his shoppe, at the little | North doore of Paules, at the signe of | the Gun. 1600.\n\nQ3 1611\n\nTHE | MOST LAMEN- | TABLE TRAGEDIE | \"of Titus Andronicus.\" | \"AS IT HATH SVNDRY\" | \"times beene plaide by the Kings\" | Maiesties Seruants.\n\nQ1 1597\n\nTHE TRAGEDY OF | King Richard the third. | Containing, | His treacherous Plots against his brother Clarence: | the pittiefull murther of his iunocent nephewes: | his tyrannicall vsurpation: with the whole course | of his detested life, and most deserued death. | As it hath been lately Acted by the | Right honourable the Lord Chamber- | laine his seruants. | AT LONDON | Printed by Valentine Sims, for Andrew Wise, | dwelling in Paules Chuch-yard, at the | Signe of the Angell. | 1597.\n\nQ2 1598\n\nTHE | TRAGEDIE | of King Richard | the third. | Conteining his treacherous Plots against his | brother \"Clarence:\" the pitiful murther of his innocent | Nephewes: his tyrannicall vsurpation: with | the whole course of the detested life, and most | \"deserued death\". | \"As it hath beene lately Acted by the Right honourable\" | \"the Lord Chamberlaine his seruants\". | \"By\" William Shake-speare. | LONDON | Printed by Thomas Creede, for Andrew Wise, | dwelling in Paules Church-yard, at the signe | of the Angell. 1598.\n\nQ3 1602\n\nTHE | TRAGEDIE | of King Richard | the third. | \"Conteining his treacherous Plots against his brother\" | \"Clarence:\" the pittifull murther of his innocent Ne- | phewes: his tyrannicall vsurpation: with the | whole course of the detested life, and | most deserued death. | \"As it hath bene lately Acted by the Right honourable\" | \"the Lord Chamberlaine his seruants\". | Newly augmented, | By \"William Shakespeare\". | LONDON | Printed by Thomas Creede, for Andrew Wise, dwelling | in Paules Church-yard, at the signe of the | Angell. 1602.\n\nQ4 1605\n\nTHE | TRAGEDIE | of King Richard | the third. | \"Conteining his treacherous Plots against his brother\" | \"Clarence:\" the pittifull murther of his innocent Ne- | phewes: his tyrannicall vsurpation: with the | whole course of the detested life, and | most deserued death. | \"As it hath bin lately Acted by the Right Honourable\" | \"the Lord Chamberlaine his seruants\". | Newly augmented, | By \"William Shakespeare\". | LONDON | Printed by Thomas Creede, and are to be sold by \"Mathew\" | \"Lawe\", dwelling in Paules Church-yard, at the Signe | of the Foxe, neare S. Austins gate, 1605.\n\nQ5 1612\n\n\"THE\" | TRAGEDIE | of King Richard | the third. | \"Containing his treacherous Plots against his brother\" | \"Clarence\" : the pittifull murther of his innocent Ne- | phewes : his tyrannicall vsurpation : with the | whole course of the detested life, and | most deserued death. | \"As it hath beene lately Acted by the Kings Maiesties\" | \"seruants\". | Newly augmented, | By \"William Shake-speare\". | LONDON, | Printed by Thomas Creede, and are to be sold by Mathew | Lawe, dwelling in Pauls Church-yard, at the Signe | of the Foxe, neare S. Austins gate, 1612.\n\nQ6 1622\n\nTHE | TRAGEDIE | \"OF\" | KING RICHARD | \"THE THIRD\". | Contayning his treacherous plots against | \"his brother\" Clarence : \"The pittifull murder of his innocent\" | Nephewes : his tyrannicall Vsurpation : with the whole | course of his detested life, and most | \"deserued death\". | As it hath been lately acted by the Kings Maiesties | \"Seruants\". | Newly augmented. | By \"William Shake-speare.\" | LONDON, | Printed by \"Thomas Purfoot\", and are to be sold by \"Mathew Law\", dwelling | in \"Pauls\" Church-yard, at the Signe of the \"Foxe\", neere | \"S. Austines\" gate, 1622.\n\nQ7 1629\n\nTHE | TRAGEDIE | \"OF\" | KING RICHARD | \"THE THIRD\". | Contayning his treacherous plots against | \"his brother\" Clarence : \"The pittifull murder of his ino-\" | cent Nephewes : his tiranous vsurpation : with the whole | course of his detested life, and most | \"deserued death\". | As it hath been lately Acted by the Kings Maiesties | \"Seruants\". | Newly augmented. | By \"William Shake-speare.\" | \"LONDON.\" | Printed by \"Iohn Norton\", and are to be sold by \"Mathew Law\", | dwelling in \"Pauls\" Church-yeard, at the Signe of the | \"Foxe\", neere St. \"Austines\" gate, | 1629.\n\nQ8 1634\n\nTHE | TRAGEDIE | \"OF\" | KING \"RICHARD\" | THE THIRD. | Contayning his treacherous Plots a- | gainst his brother \"Clarence\" : The pitifull | murder of his innocent Nephewes : his | tyranous vsurpation : with the | whole course of his detested life, | and most deserued death. | \"As it hath beene Acted by the Kings | Maiesties Seruants\". | VVritten by \"William Shake-speare.\" | \"LONDON.\" | Printed by IOHN NORTON. 1634.\n\nOctavo 1 1595\n\nThe true Tragedie of Richard | \"Duke of Yorke, and the death of\" | good King Henrie the Sixt, | \"with the whole contention betweene\" | the two Houses Lancaster | and Yorke, as it was sundrie times | acted by the Right Honoura- | ble the Earle of Pem- | brooke his seruants. | Printed at London by P. S. for Thomas Milling- | \"ton, and are to be sold at his shoppe vnder\" | \"Saint Peters Church in\" | \"Cornwal\". 1595.\n\nQ2 1600\n\nTHE | True Tragedie of | Richarde Duke of | Yorke, and the death of good | King Henrie the sixt: | VVith the whole contention betweene the two | Houses, Lancaster and Yorke; as it was | sundry times acted by the Right | Honourable the Earle | of Pembrooke his | seruantes. | Printed at Londou by \"W. W.\" for \"Thomas Millington\", | and are to be sold at his shoppe vnder Saint | Peters Church in Cornewall. | 1600.\n\nQ3 1619 (not dated, printed with \"Henry VI, Part 2\" as part of Thomas Pavier's False Folio)\n\nTHE Whole Contention | betvveene the two Famous | Houses, LANCASTER and | YORKE. | \"With the Tragicall ends of the good Duke\" | Humfrey, Richard Duke of Yorke, | \"and King Henrie the\" | \"sixt\". | Diuided into two Parts: And newly corrected and | enlarged. Written by \"William Shake-\" | \"speare\", Gent. | Printed at LONDON, for T. P.\n\nQ1 1597\n\n\"AN\" | EXCELLENT | conceited Tragedie | \"OF\" | Romeo and Iuliet. | As it hath been often (with great applause) | plaid publiquely, by the right Ho- | nourable the L. of \"Hunsdon\" | his Seruants. | LONDON | Printed by Iohn Danter. 1597 (78 pp.)\n\nQ2 1599\n\nTHE | MOST EX= | cellent and lamentable | Tragedie, of Romeo | and \"Iuliet\". | \"Newly corrected, augmented, and\" | \"amended\": | As it hath bene sundry times publiquely acted, by the | right Honourable the Lord Chamberlaine | his Seruants. | LONDON | Printed by Thomas Creede, for Cuthbert Burby, and are to | be sold at his shop neare the Exchange. 1599. (92 pp.)\n\nQ3 1609\n\nTHE | MOST EX- | CELLENT AND | Lamentable Tragedie, of | \"Romeo and Juliet\". | As it hath beene sundrie times publiquely Acted, | by the KINGS Maiesties Seruants | at the Globe. | Newly corrected, augmented, and amended : | LONDON | Printed for IOHN SMETHVVICK, and are to be sold | at his Shop in Saint \"Dunstanes\" Church-yard, | in Fleetestreete vnder the Dyall, | 1609. (92 pp.)\n\nQ4 a 1622 (not dated)\n\nTHE MOST | EXCELLENT | And Lamentable Tragedie, | of ROMEO and | IVLIET. | As it hath beene sundrie times publikely Acted, | by the KINGS Maiesties seruants | at the GLOBE. | \"Newly corrected, augmented, and amended.\" | LONDON, | Printed for \"Iohn Smethwicke\", and are to bee sold at his Shop in | Saint \"Dunstanes\" Church-yard, in Fleetestreete | vnder the Dyall. (88 pp.)\n\nQ4 b 1622 (not dated)\n\nTHE MOST | EXCELLENT | And Lamentable Tragedie, | of ROMEO and | IVLIET. | As it hath beene sundrie times publikely Acted, | by the KINGS Maiesties seruants | at the GLOBE. | Written by \"W. Shake-speare.\" | \"Newly corrected, augmented, and amended.\" | LONDON, | Printed for \"Iohn Smethwicke\", and are to bee sold at his Shop in | Saint \"Dunstanes\" Church-yard, in Fleetestreete | vnder the Dyall. (88 pp.)\n\nQ5 1637\n\nTHE MOST | EXCELLENT | And Lamentable Tragedie | of ROMEO and | JULIET. | As it hath been sundry times publikely Acted | by the KINGS Maiesties Seruants | at the GLOBE. | Written by \"W. Shake-speare.\" | \"Newly corrected, augmented, and amended.\" | \"LONDON\", | Printed by \"R. Young\" for \"John Smethwicke\", and are to bee sold at | his Shop in St. \"Dunstanes\" Church-yard, in Fleetstreet, | under the Dyall. 1637. (88 pp.)\n\nQ1 1597\n\nTHE | Tragedie of King Ri- | chard the se- | cond. | \"As it hath beene publikely acted\" | \"by the right Honourable the\" | \"Lorde Chamberlaine his Ser-\" | \"uants\". | LONDON | Printed by Valentine Simmes for Androw Wise, and | are to be sold at his shop in Paules church yard at | the signe of the Angel. | 1597.\n\nQ2 1598\n\nTHE | Tragedie of King Ri- | chard the second. | As it hath beene publikely acted by the right Ho- | nourable the Lorde Chamberlaine his | seruants. | \"By William Shake-speare\". | LONDON | Printed by Valentine Simmes for Andrew Wise, and | are to be sold at his shop in Paules churchyard at | the signe of the Angel. 1598.\n\nQ3 1598\n\nTHE | Tragedie of King Ri- | chard the second. | As it hath beene publikely acted by the right Ho- | nourable the Lorde Chamberlaine his | seruants. | \"By William Shake-speare\". | LONDON | Printed by Valentine Simmes, for Andrew Wise, and | are to be sold at his shop in Paules churchyard, at | the signe of the Angel. 1598\n\nQ4 a 1608\n\nTHE | Tragedie of King | Richard the second. | As it hath been publikely acted by the Right | Honourable the Lorde Chamberlaine | his seruantes. | \"By William Shake-speare.\" LONDON, | Printed by W. W. for \"Mathew Law\", and are to be | sold at his shop in Paules Church-yard, at | the signe of the Foxe. | 1608.\n\nQ4 b 1608\n\nTHE | Tragedie of King | Richard the second: | With new additions of the Parlia- | ment Sceane, | and the deposing | of King Richard. | As it hath been lately acted by the Kinges | Maiesties seruantes, at the Globe. | \"By William Shake-speare.\" | AT LONDON, | Printed by W. W. for \"Mathew Law\", and are to | be sold at his shop in Paules Church-yard, | at the signe of the Foxe. | 1608.\n\nQ5 1615\n\nTHE | Tragedie of King | Richard the Se- | cond: | \"With new additions of the\" P\"arliament Sceane\", | \"and the deposing of King\" | \"Richard\". | As it hath been lately acted by the Kinges | Maiesties seruants, at the Globe. | \"By\" WILLIAM SHAKE-SPEARE. | \"At LONDON\", | Printed for \"Mathew Law\", and are to be sold | at his shop in Paules Church-yard, | at the | signe of the Foxe. | 1615.\n\nQ6 1634\n\nTHE | LIFE AND | DEATH OF KING | \"RICHARD\" THE | SECOND. | With new Additions of the | \"Parliament Scene\", and the | Deposing of King \"Richard\". | As it hath beene acted by the Kings Majesties | Servants, at the \"Globe\". | By \"William Shakespeare\". | \"LONDON\", | Printed by IOHN NORTON. | 1634.\n\nQuarto 0 1598\n\nThis version thought to be earlier than Q1 is known only from a single fragment in the Folger Shakespeare Library, comprising four leaves of quire C that was found in a book binding. The running headline uses the word \"hystorie\" instead of \"historie\" and line spoken by Poins in 2.2, \"How the rogue roared\" is given as \"How the fat rogue roared\".\n\nQ1 1598\n\nTHE | HISTORY OF | HENRIE THE | FOVRTH; | With the battell at Shrewsburie, | \"betweene the King and Lord\" | Henry Percy, surnamed | Henrie Hotspur of | the North. | \"With the humorous conceits of Sir\" | Iohn Falstalffe. | AT LONDON, | Printed by \"P. S.\" for \"Andrew Wise\", dwelling | in Paules Churchyard, at the signe of | the Angell, 1598.\n\nQ2 1599\n\nTHE | HISTORY OF | HENRIE THE | FOVRTH; | With the battell at Shrewsburie, | \"betweene the King and Lord\" Henry | Percy, \"surnamed\" | Henrie Hot- | spur of | the North. | \"With the humorous conceits of Sir\" | Iohn Falstalffe. | Newly corrected by \"W. Shake-speare. | AT LONDON, | Printed by \"S. S.\" for \"Andrew VVise\", dwelling | in Paules Churchyard, at the signe of | the Angell. 1599.\n\nQ3 1604\n\nTHE | HISTORY OF | Henrie the fourth, | VVith the battell at Shrewsburie, | \"betweene the King, and Lord\" | Henry Percy, surnamed Henry Hot- | \"spur of the North\". | \"With the humorous conceits of Sir\" | Iohn Falstalffe. | Newly corrected by \"W. Shake-speare. | LONDON | Printed by Valentine Simmes, for \"Mathew Law\", and | are to be solde at his shop in Paules Churchyard, | at the signe of the Fox. | 1604.\n\nQ4 1608\n\nTHE | HISTORY OF | Henry the fourth, | VVith the battell at Shrewsburie, | \"betweene the King, and Lord\" | Henry Percy, surnamed Henry | \"Hotspur of the North\". | \"With the humorous conceites of Sir\" | Iohn Falstalffe. | \"Newly corrected by W. Shake-speare. | LONDON | Printed for \"Mathew Law\", and are to be sold at | his shop in Paules Church-yard, neere vnto S. | \"Augustines\" gate, at the signe of | the Foxe, 1608.\n\nQ5 1613\n\nTHE | HISTORY OF | Henrie the fourth, | With the Battell at Shrewseburie, betweene | the King, and Lord Henrie Percy, sur- | named \"Henrie Hotspur\" of the North. | VVith the humorous conceites of Sir | \"Iohn Falstaffe\". | Newly corrected by \"W. Shake-speare\".\n\nQ6 1622\n\nTHE | HISTORIE | \"OF\" | Henry the Fourth. | With the Battell at Shrewseburie, betweene | the King, and Lord \"Henry Percy\", surnamed | \"Henry Hotspur of the North.\" | With the humorous conceits of Sir | \"Iohn Falstaffe\". | Newly corrected. | By \"William Shake-speare.\" |\nLONDON, | Printed by \"T. P.\" and are to be sold by \"Mathew Law\", dwelling | in \"Pauls\" Church-yard, at the signe of the \"Foxe\", neere | \"S. Austines\" gate. 1622.\n\nQ7 1632\n\nTHE | HISTORIE | \"OF\" | Henry the Fourth: | With the battell at \"Shrewesbury\", be- | tweene the King, and Lord \"Henry Percy\", | surnamed \"Henry Hotspur of\" | \"the North. | With the humorous conceits of \"S\"ir | \"Iohn Falstaffe.\" | Newly corrected, | By \"William Shake-speare\". | \"London\". | Printed by \"Iohn Norton\", and are to bee sold by | \"William Sheares\", at his shop at the great South doore | of Saint \"Pauls\"-Church; and in Chancery-Lane, | neere \"Serieants-Inne\". | 1632.\n\nQ8 1639\n\nTHE | HISTORIE | \"OF\" | Henry the Fourth: | WITH THE BATTELL AT | \"Shrewsbury\", betweene the King, | and Lord \"Henry Percy\", surnamed | \"Henry Hotspur\" of the | \"North\". | With the humorous conceits of Sir | IOHN FALSTAFFE. | \"Newly corrected\", | By WILLIAM SHAKE-SPEARE. | \"LONDON\" | Printed by JOHN NORTON, and are to be sold by | HVGH PERRY, at his shop next to Ivie-bridge | in the Strand. 1639.\n\nQ 1598\n\n\"A\" | PLEASANT | Conceited Comedie | CALLED, | Loues labors lost. | As it vvas presented before her Highnes | this last Christmas. | Newly corrected and augmented | \"By W. Shakespere.\" | Imprinted at London: by \"W. W.\" | for \"Cutbert Burby,\" | 1598.\n\nQuarto a (84 pages) omits the first scene of act iii and eight other passages in quire E. Quarto b (88 pages) adds the missing first scene of act iii and resets the immediately surrounding text, adding two leaves to quire E. The title pages are identical.\n\nQ 1600\n\nTHE | Second part of Henrie | the fourth, continuing to his death, | \"and coronation of Henrie\" | the fift. | With the humours of sir Iohn Fal- | \"staffe, and swaggering\" | Pistoll. | \"As it hath been sundrie times publikely\" | acted by the right honourable, the Lord | Chamberlaine his seruants. | \"Written by William Shakespeare\". | LONDON | Printed by V. S. for Andrew Wise, and | William Aspley. | 1600.\n\nQ1, 1600\n\nTHE | CRONICLE | History of Henry the fift, | With his battell fought at \"Agin Court\" in | \"France\". Togither with \"Auntient\" | \"Pistoll\". | \"As it hath bene sundry times playd by the Right honorable\" | \"the Lord Chamberlaine his seruants\". | LONDON | Printed by \"Thomas Creede\", for Tho. Milling- | ton, and Iohn Busby. And are to be | sold at his house in Carter Lane, next | the Powle head. 1600. (56 pp.)\n\nQ2, 1602\n\nTHE | CHRONICLE | History of Henry the fift, | VVith his battell fought at \"Agin Court\" | in \"France\". Together with \"Auntient\" | \"Pistoll\". | \"As it hath bene sundry times playd by the Right honorable\" | \"the Lord Chamberlaine his seruants\". | LONDON | Printed by \"Thomas Creede\", for Thomas | Pauier, and are to be sold at his shop in Cornhill, | at the signe of the Cat and Parrets neare | the Exchange. 1602. (52 pp.)\n\nQ3, 1619 (falsely dated 1608 as part of Thomas Pavier's False Folio)\n\nTHE | Chronicle History | of Henry the fift, with his | battell fought at \"Agin Court\" in | France. Together with an- | \"cient Pistoll\". | \"As it hath bene sundry times playd by the Right Honou-\" | \"rable the Lord Chamberlaine his | Seruants\". | Printed for \"T. P.\" 1608. (56 pp.)\n\nQ1 1600\n\nA | Midsommer nights | dreame. | As it hath beene sundry times pub- | \"lickely acted, by the Right honoura-\" | ble, the Lord Chamberlaine his | \"seruants\". | \"Written by William Shakespeare\". | ¶ Imprinted at London, for \"Thomas Fisher\", and are to | be soulde at his shoppe, at the Signe of the White Hart, | in \"Fleetestreete\". 1600.\n\nQ2 1619 (falsely dated 1600 as part of Thomas Pavier's False Folio)\n\nA | Midsommer nights | dreame. | As it hath beene sundry times pub- | \"likely acted, by the Right Honoura-\" | ble, the Lord Chamberlaine his | \"seruants\". | \"VVritten by VVilliam Shakespeare\". | Printed by Iames Roberts, 1600.\n\nQ1 1600\n\nThe most excellent | Historie of the \"Merchant\" | \"of Venice\". | VVith the extreame crueltie of \"Shylocke\" the Iewe | towards the sayd Merchant, in cutting a iust pound | of his flesh: and the obtayning of \"Portia\" | by the choyse of three | chests. | \"As it hath beene diuers times acted by the Lord\" | \"Chamberlaine his seruants\". | Written by William Shakespeare. | AT LONDON, | Printed by \"I. R.\" for Thomas Heyes, | and are to be sold in Paules Church-yard, at the | signe of the Greene Dragon. | 1600.\n\nQ2 1619 (falsely dated 1600 as part of Thomas Pavier's False Folio)\n\nTHE | EXCELLENT | History of the Mer- | \"chant of Venice\". | With the extreme cruelty of \"Shylocke\" | the Iew towards the saide Merchant, in cut- | \"ting a iust pound of his flesh. And the obtaining\" | of \"Portia\", by the choyse of | \"three Caskets.\" | Written by W. SHAKESPEARE. | Printed by \"J. Roberts\", 1600\n\nQ3 1637\n\nThe most excellent | Historie of the Merchant | of \"VENICE.\" | With the extreame crueltie of \"Shylocke\" | the Iewe towards the said Merchant, in | cutting a just pound of his flesh: and the ob- | taining of PORTIA by the choice | \"of three Chests\". | As it hath beene divers times acted by the | \"Lord Chamberlaine his servants.\" | Written by WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE. | LONDON, | Printed by \"M. P.\" for \"Laurence Hayes\", and are to be sold | at his Shop on Fleetbridge. 1637.\n\nQ 1600\n\nMuch adoe about | Nothing. | \"As it hath been sundrie times publikely\" | acted by the right honourable, the Lord | Chamberlaine his seruants. | \"Written by William Shakespeare.\" | LONDON | Printed by V. S. for Andrew Wise, and | William Aspley. | 1600.\n\nQ1 1602\n\nA | Most pleasaunt and | excellent conceited Co- | medie, of Syr \"Iohn Falstaffe\", and the | merrie Wiues of \"Windsor\". | Entermixed with sundrie | variable and pleasing humors, of Syr \"Hugh\" | the Welch knight, Iustice \"Shallow\", and his | wise Cousin M. \"Slender\". | With the swaggering vaine of Auncient | \"Pistoll\", and Corporall \"Nym\". | By \"William Shakespeare\". | As it hath bene diuers times Acted by the right Honorable | my Lord Chamberlaines seruants. Both before her | Maiestie, and else-where.\n\nQ2 1619 (publisher falsely stated as Arthur Johnson as part of Thomas Pavier's False Folio)\n\nA | Most pleasant and ex- | cellent conceited Comedy, | \"of Sir Iohn Falstaffe, and the\" | \"merry VViues of VVindsor\". | VVith the swaggering vaine of An- | cient \"Pistoll\", and Corporall \"Nym\". | Written by W. SHAKESPEARE. | Printed for \"Arthur Johnson\", 1619.\n\nQ3 1630\n\nTHE | MERRY VVIVES | OF WINDSOR. | With the humours of Sir \"Iohn Falstaffe\", | As also the swaggering vaine of Ancient | \"Pistoll\", and Corporall \"Nym\". | Written by \"William Shake-Speare\". | \"Newly corrected\". | \"LONDON\": | Printed by \"T. H.\" for \"R. Meighen\", and are to be sold | at his Shop, next to the Middle-Temple Gate, and in | S. \"Dunstans\" Church-yard in \"Fleet-street\", | 1630.\n\nQ1 1603\n\nTHE | Tragicall Historie of | HAMLET | \"Prince of Denmarke\" | by William Shake-speare. | As it hath beene diuerse times acted by his Highnesse ser- | uants in the Cittie of London : as also in the two V- | niuersities of Cambridge and Oxford, and else-where | At London: printed for N. L. and Iohn Trundell. | 1603. (66 pp.)\n\nQ2 a 1604\n\n\"THE\" | Tragicall Historie of | HAMLET, | \"Prince of Denmarke.\" | By William Shakespeare. | Newly imprinted and enlarged to almost as much | againe as it was, according to the true and perfect | Coppie. | AT LONDON, | Printed by I. R. for N. L. and are to be sold at his | shoppe vnder Saint Dunstons Church in | Fleetstreet. 1604. (102 pp.)\n\nQ2 b 1605\n\n\"THE\" | Tragicall Historie of | HAMLET, | \"Prince of Denmarke.\" | By William Shakespeare. | Newly imprinted and enlarged to almost as much | againe as it was, according to the true and perfect | Coppie. | AT LONDON, | Printed by I. R. for N. L. and are to be sold at his | shoppe vnder Saint Dunstons Church in | Fleetstreet. 1605. (102 pp.)\n\nQ3 1611\n\nTHE | TRAGEDY | OF | HAMLET | Prince of Denmarke. | BY | WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE. | Newly imprinted and enlarged to almost as much | againe as it was, according to the true | and perfect Coppy. | AT LONDON, | Printed for \"Iohn Smethwicke\", and are to be sold at his shoppe | in Saint \"Dunstons\" Church yeard in Fleetstreet. | Vnder the Diall. 1611. (104 pp.)\n\nQ4 1622 (no date)\n\nTHE | TRAGEDY | OF | HAMLET | \"Prince of Denmarke\". | BY | WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE. | LONDON, | Printed by \"W. S.\" for \"Iohn Smethwicke\", and are to be sold at his | shoppe in Saint \"Dunstons\" Church-yard in Fleetstreet: | Vnder the Diall.\n\nQ5 1637\n\nTHE | TRAGEDY | OF HAMLET | PRINCE OF | DENMARK. | Newly imprinted and inlarged, according to the true | and perfect Copy last Printed. | \"By\" WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE. | \"LONDON\", | Printed by \"R. Young\" for \"John Smethwicke\", and are to be sold at his | Shop in Saint \"Dunstans\" Church-yard in Fleet-stteet, | under the Diall, 1637. (104 pp.)\n\nQ1 1608\n\nM. William Shak-speare: | \"HIS\" | True Chronicle Historie of the life and | death of King LEAR and his three | Daughters. | \"With the vnfortunate life of\" Edgar, \"sonne\" | and heire to the Earle of Gloster, and his | sullen and assumed humor of | TOM of Bedlam: | \"As it was played before the Kings Maiestie at Whitehall vpon | S. Stephans night in Christmas Hollidayes. | By his Maiesties seruants playing vsually at the Gloabe | on the Bancke-side. | \"LONDON,\" | Printed [by Nicholas Okes] for \"Nathaniel Butter\", and are to be sold at his shop in \"Pauls\" | Church-yard at the signe of the Pide Bull neere | \"St. \"Austins Gate\" 1608 (84 pp.)\n\nQ2 1619 (falsely dated 1608 as part of Thomas Pavier's False Folio)\n\nM. VVilliam Shake-speare, | \"HIS\" | True Chronicle History of the life | and death of King \"Lear\", and his | \"three daughters\". | \"With the vnfortunate life of\" EDGAR, sonne and heire to the Earle of \"Glocester\", and | \"his sullen and assumed humour of\" TOM | of Bedlam. | \"As it was plaied before the Kings Maiesty at White-hall, vp- | pon S. Stephens night, in Christmas Hollidaies. | By his Maiesties Seruants, playing vsually at the | \"Globe\" on the \"Banck-side\". | Printed for \"Nathaniel Butter\". 1608. (88 pp.)\n\nQ a 1609\n\nTHE Historie of Troylus | and Cresseida. | \"As it was acted by the Kings Maiesties\" | seruants at the Globe. | \"Written by\" William Shakespeare. | LONDON | Imprinted by \"G. Eld\" for \"R. Bonian\" and \"H. Walley\", and | are to be sold at the spred Eagle in Paules | Church-yeard, ouer against the | great North doore. | 1609.\n\nQ b 1609\n\nTHE | Famous Historie of | Troylus \"and\" Cresseid. | \"Excellently expressing the beginning\" | of their loues, with the conceited wooing | of \"Pandarus\" Prince of \"Licia\". | \"Written by\" William Shakespeare. | LONDON | Imprinted by \"G. Eld\" for \"R. Bonian\" and \"H. Walley\", and | are to be sold at the spred Eagle in Paules | Church-yeard, ouer against the | great north doore. | 1609.\n\nQ1 1609\n\nTHE LATE, | And much admired Play, | Called | Pericles, Prince | of Tyre. | With the true Relation of the whole Historie, | aduentures, and fortunes of the said Prince: | As also, | The no lesse strange, and worthy accidents, | in the Birth and Life, of his Daughter | \"MARIANA\". | As it hath been diuers and sundry times acted by | his Maiesties Seruants, at the Globe on | the Banck-side. | By William Shakespeare. | Imprinted at London for \"Henry Gosson\", and are | to be sold at the signe of the Sunne in | Pater-noster row, &c. | 1609.\n\nQ2 1609\n\nTHE LATE, | And much admired Play, | Called | Pericles, Prince | of Tyre. | With the true Relation of the whole Historie, | aduentures, and fortunes of the said Prince: | As also, | The no lesse strange, and worthy accidents, | in the Birth and Life, of his Daughter | \"MARIANA\". | As it hath been diuers and sundry times acted by | his Maiesties Seruants, at the Globe on | the Banck-side. | By William Shakespeare. | Imprinted at London for \"Henry Gosson\", and are | to be sold at the signe of the Sunne in | Pater-noster row, &c. | 1609.\n\nQ3 1611\n\nTHE LATE, | And much admired Play, | Called | Pericles, Prince | of Tyre. | With the true Relation of the whole History, | aduentures, and fortunes of the sayd Prince: | \"As also\", | The no lesse strange, and worthy accidents, | in the Birth and Life, of his Daughter | \"MARIANA\". | As it hath been diuers and sundry times acted by | his Maiestyes Seruants, at the Globe on | the Banck-side. | By \"VVilliam Shakespeare\". | Printed at London by \"S. S.\" | 1611.\n\nQ4a 1619 (first state as part of Thomas Pavier's False Folio)\n\nTHE LATE, | And much admired play, | CALLED, | Pericles, Prince of | Tyre. | \"With the true relation of the whole Hi-\" | story, aduentures, and fortunes of | the saide Prince. | Written by W. SHAKESPEARE. | Printed for \"T. P.\" 1619.\n\nQ4b 1619 (corrected state falsely dated 1609 as part of Thomas Pavier's False Folio)\n\nTHE LATE, | And much admired play, | CALLED, | Pericles, Prince of | Tyre. | \"With the true relation of the whole Hi-\" | story, aduentures, and fortunes of | the saide Prince. | Written by W. SHAKESPEARE. | Printed for \"T. P.\" 1609.\n\nQ5 1630\n\n\"THE LATE,\" | And much admired play, | CALLED | Pericles, Prince of | Tyre. | \"With the true relation of the whole Hi-\" | story, aduentures, and fortunes | of the saide Prince. | Written by WILL. SHAKESPEARE. | \"LONDON,\" | Printed by \"I. N.\" for \"R. B.\" and are to be sould | at his shop in \"Cheapside\", at the signe of the | \"Bible\". 1630.\n\nQ6 1635\n\n\"THE LATE,\" | And much admired Play, | CALLED | Pericles, Prince of | Tyre. | \"With the true Relation of the whole Hi-\" | story, adventures, and fortunes of | the said Prince. | Written by W. SHAKESPEARE. | Printed at \"London\" by \"Thomas Cotes\", 1635.\n\nQ1 1622\n\nTHE | Tragœdy of Othello, | The Moore of Venice. | \"As it hath beene diuerse times acted at the\" | Globe, and at the Black-Friers, by | \"his Maiesties Seruants\". | \"Written by\" VVilliam Shakespeare. | \"LONDON\", | Printed by \"N. O.\" for \"Thomas Walkley\", and are to be sold at his | shop, at the Eagle and Child, in Brittans Bursse. | 1622.\n\nQ2 1630\n\nTHE | Tragœdy of Othello, | The Moore of Venice. | \"As it hath beene diuerse times acted at the\" | Globe, and at the Black-Friers, by | \"his Maiesties Seruants\". | \"Written by\" VVilliam Shakespeare. | \"LONDON\", | Printed by \"A. M.\" for \"Richard Hawkins\", and are to be sold at | his shoppe, in Chancery-Lane, neere Sergeants-Inne. | 1630.\n\nQ 1631\n\nA WITTIE | AND PLEASANT | COMEDIE | Called | \"The Taming of the Shrew.\" | As it was acted by his Maiesties | \"Seruants at the\" Blacke Friers | \"and the\" Globe. | \"Written by\" VVill. Shakespeare. | \"London,\" | Printed by \"W. S.\" [William Stansby] for \"Iohn Smethwicke\", and are to be | sold at his Shop in Saint \"Dunstones\" Church- | yard vnder the Diall. | 1631. (72 pp.)\n\nQ 1634\n\nTHE | TWO | NOBLE/KINSMEN: | Presented at the Blackfriers | by the Kings Maiesties servants, | with great applause: | Written by the memorable Worthies/of their time; | Mr. \"John Fletcher\", and} | Mr. \"William Shakespeare\".} | Gent. | Printed at \"London\" by \"Tho. Cotes\", for \"Iohn Waterson\": | and are to be sold at the signe of the \"Crowne\" | in \"Pauls\" Church-yard. 1634.\n"}
{"id": "11961232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11961232", "title": "List of gamebooks", "text": "List of gamebooks\n\nThis is a list of gamebook series and individual gamebooks (Choose Your Own Adventure type books).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29874793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29874793", "title": "Mobile museum", "text": "Mobile museum\n\nA mobile museum is a museum educational outreach program that bring the museum to the people rather than vice versa. Typically they can be in Recreational Vehicles (RVs) or trucks/trailers that drive to schools, libraries and rural events. Their business model is to use grant or donor support, as they goal is to make the museum exhibit accessible to underserved populations. Below are some examples of mobile museums.\n\nThe Texas Alliance for Minorities in Engineering (TAME) is a nonprofit founded in 1976 that maintains two traveling STEM-museums-on-wheels that visit thousands of students a year across Texas. Established in 1980 as the Expo-Tex traveling engineering exhibit, the Trailblazer program expanded in 2013 to a fleet of two upgraded 40-ft trailers. Both Trailblazer I and Trailblazer II contain five interactive STEM exhibit areas: Aerodynamics, Biotechnology, Energy, Space, and Weather. Exhibits include Robotic Surgery, Van de Graaff Generators, Virtual Reality Spacewalk, Green Screen Technology, Thermal Imaging, Wind Tunnels, and more. \n\nThe Moveable Museum is produced and managed by the American Museum of Natural History in New York City (NYC) under the auspices of the Gottesman Center for Science Teaching and Learning. The program is available free of charge to all schools in the five boroughs of New York City and consists of one themed vehicle outfitted with hands-on, interactive exhibits covering paleontology. The Moveable Museum formerly also included vehicles about anthropology and astronomy. The Moveable Museum program has been in operation since 1993, in which time it has visited over 700 schools in NYC and many libraries. The \"Paleontology of Dinosaurs\" (Grades K-2) has been active since 1998, and is focused on teaching children how paleontologists use fossils to study dinosaurs and other ancient life. The \"Structures & Culture\" (Grades 3–8) lets students study actual pieces of material culture, and become anthropologists and investigate how culture allows people to use various environmental resources to meet basic human needs.\n\nThe \"Dinosaurs: Ancient Fossils, New Discoveries\" and \"Structures & Culture\" was donated to the Institute for the Study of Mongolian Dinosaurs in 2013 The \"Paleontology of Dinosaurs\" is the oldest vehicle in operation. The \"Structures & Culture\" allows students to enter the homes of three modern nomadic cultures, the Gabra of Kenya, the Mongols of Mongolia and the Blackfeet of Montana. \"Discovering the Universe\" (Grades 6–12) resides at the Suffolk County Vanderbilt Planetarium. \n\nAn ex MTT Perth 1957 vintage Leyland Worldmaster Bus featuring a 5m long Great White Shark (White Pointer) and hundreds of marine objects collected around Australia primarily in the 1960s and 70s. This private collection tours Australia and contains the shark purported to have inspired the artist Damien Hurst. Shark in a Bus is completely self funded.\nA pair of RV museum vans with themes related to cultural history that operate in New Mexico and is ran by the New Mexico Department of Cultural Affairs, with primary funding from the Department of Transportation. The grant-supported program focuses on children in elementary schools, especially those in remote and rural communities.\nBased in Wiltshire, UK, it aims to tell the story of Britain through interaction with items from various periods. It focuses on donations of items as opposed to money and operates out of a period military tent.\nSchool outreach program targeting children in school grades 1–6, operating in North Texas, USA.\nBrings art works to schools, community festivals, retirement communities, and businesses. Runs during the school year. Started in 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "59091880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59091880", "title": "Multimodal anthropology", "text": "Multimodal anthropology\n\nMultimodal anthropology is an emerging subfield of social cultural anthropology that encompasses anthropological research and knowledge production across multiple traditional and new media platforms and practices including film, video, photography, theatre, design, podcast, mobile apps, interactive games, web-based social networking, immersive 360 video and augmented reality. As characterized in American Anthropologist\",\" multimodal anthropology is an \"anthropology that works across multiple media, but one that also engages in public anthropology and collaborative anthropology through a field of differentially linked media platforms\" (Collins, Durington & Gill). A multimodal approach also encourages anthropologist to reconsider the ways in which they conduct their research, to pay close attention to the role various media technologies and digital devices plays in the lives of their interlocutors, and how they these technologies redefine what fieldwork looks like.\n\nMultimodal anthropology is not a new concept. It has been a fundamental part of anthropological research and fieldwork from the early days of the disciple. Anthropologists have been experimenting with different forms media technologies throughout the twentieth century whenever confronted with the limitation of text-based ethnography. Multimodal is a term that has readily been used since the 1970s in varied disciplines as psychotherapy, phonetics, genetics, literature and medicine to characterize different approaches to carrying out scientific research that involves to a certain degree, thinking outside of the box. In the early 1990s, semioticians used the terms to discuss different forms of communication across different media, eventually including digital media.\n\nTechnological advances in the later part of the twentieth century, the accessibility to photography, film cameras and audio recorders led to the emergence of visual anthropology as a sub discipline dedicated to the study and production of ethnographic photography, film and media. Building in this legacy, multimodal anthropology seeks to expand the boundaries of visual anthropology to incorporate emerging technologies of twenty-first century including mobile networking, social media, geo-mapping, virtual reality, podcasting, interactive design, along with other traditional forms of learning and knowledge production like art and drawing that were often sidelined within visual anthropology, such as interactive gaming, theatre, performance, graphic novels, ethnofiction and experimental ethnography. As Samuel Collins, Matthew Durington and Harjant Gill note in their introductory essay on title \"Multimodality: An Invitation,\" published in American Anthropologist, \"multimodal anthropologies does not attempt – or desire – to supplant visual anthropology. Rather it seeks to include traditional forms of visual anthropology while simultaneously broadening the purview of the discipline to engage in variety of media forms that exist today.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18853383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18853383", "title": "National Advanced Youth Leadership Experience", "text": "National Advanced Youth Leadership Experience\n\nNational Advanced Youth Leadership Experience (NAYLE) is a training program of Boy Scouts of America. The format is a week-long, leadership development experience, providing young men and women aged 14 through 20 the environment to enhance their leadership skills.\n\nInitially developed for Philmont Training Center (PTC) at Rayado Ridge Leadership Camp in Cimarron, New Mexico, the program has been offered regionally and at other high adventure bases. NAYLE is an element of the Youth Leadership Training Continuum.\n\nNAYLE expands upon the team-building and ethical decision-making skills learned in National Youth Leadership Training (NYLT), which is a pre-requisite for NAYLE. NAYLE uses the Philmont Ranger training and advanced search-and-rescue training to teach leadership, teamwork, and the lessons of selfless service. NAYLE is included in the overall leadership training program.\n\nNAYLE replaces the National Youth Leader Instructor Camp (NYLIC), which itself replaced the previous National Junior Leader Instructor Camp (NJLIC). Unlike NYLIC, NAYLE is not intended to specifically train youth staff for local NYLT courses.\n\nAs of 2018, challenging program is based at two of the four Boy Scout High Adventure bases:\nIn prior years (2011 to 2013), NAYLE was conducted regionally at Boy Scout camps including Onteora Scout Reservation in Livingston Manor, NY, but these courses have since been discontinued.\n\nThe program promises a number of subjective outcomes focusing on an individual's perspective, opinion, and feelings, including \"growing self-awareness, growing self-confidence, growing creativity, the happiness from helping others succeed, understanding that everyone is a leader, everyone in the group contributes in a significant way to team success, knowing leadership is a way of life.\"\n\nThe program's goals are to:\n\n\nNAYLE is designed to equip participants with the skills to return to their local council and serve as staff on their local NYLT course, as summer camp staff, and as better troop leaders. NAYLE is designed to teach participants servant leadership skills in Scouting and for later life so they can lead for the good of others.\n\nDuring the week-long backcountry experience, participants are challenged with various activities linked to the skills of leadership defined in NYLT:\n\nAttendees must meet these qualifications:\n\n\nIn 2010, program attendance was opened to females. The NYLT to NAYLE Bridge Course was available during the first quarter of 2010 for Venturing youth who were not previously able to take NYLT. Venturing Crew members must now take NYLT to attend NAYLE.\n\nThe cost of the program varies by venue. Travel to each location is the responsibility of the participant.\n"}
{"id": "470014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=470014", "title": "Nebra sky disk", "text": "Nebra sky disk\n\nThe Nebra sky disk is a bronze disk of around diameter and a weight of , with a blue-green patina and inlaid with gold symbols. These are interpreted generally as a sun or full moon, a lunar crescent, and stars (including a cluster interpreted as the Pleiades). Two golden arcs along the sides, marking the angle between the solstices, were added later. A final addition was another arc at the bottom surrounded with multiple strokes (of uncertain meaning, variously interpreted as a Solar Barge with numerous oars, as the Milky Way, or as a rainbow).\n\nThe disk is attributed to a site near Nebra, Saxony-Anhalt, in Germany, and associatively dated to  1600 BC. It has been associated with the Bronze Age Unetice culture.\n\nThe style in which the disk is executed was unlike any artistic style then known from the period, with the result the object was initially suspected of being a forgery, but it is now widely accepted as authentic.\n\nThe Nebra sky disk features the oldest concrete depiction of the cosmos yet known from anywhere in the world. In June 2013 it was included in the UNESCO Memory of the World Register and termed \"one of the most important archaeological finds of the twentieth century.\"\n\nThe disk, two bronze swords, two hatchets, a chisel, and fragments of spiral bracelets were discovered in 1999 by Henry Westphal and Mario Renner while they were treasure-hunting with a metal detector. Archaeological artifacts are the property of the state in Saxony-Anhalt. The hunters were operating without a license and knew their activity constituted looting and was illegal. They damaged the disk with their spade and destroyed parts of the site. The next day, Westphal and Renner sold the entire hoard for 31,000 DM to a dealer in Cologne. The hoard changed hands within Germany over the next two years, being sold for up to a million DM. By 2001 knowledge of its existence had become public. In February 2002 the state archaeologist Harald Meller acquired the disk in a police-led sting operation in Basel from a couple who had put it on the black market for 700,000 DM. The original finders were eventually traced. In a plea bargain, they led police and archaeologists to the discovery site. Archaeologists opened a dig at the site and uncovered evidence that supports the looters' claims. There are traces of bronze artifacts in the ground, and the soil at the site matches soil samples found clinging to the artifacts. The disk and its accompanying finds are now held at the State Museum of Prehistory in Halle.\n\nThe two looters received sentences of four months and ten months, respectively, from a Naumburg court in September 2003. They appealed, but the appeals court raised their sentences to six and twelve months, respectively.\n\nThe discovery site is a prehistoric enclosure encircling the top of a elevation in the Ziegelroda Forest, known as \"Mittelberg\" (\"central hill\"), some 60 km west of Leipzig. The surrounding area is known to have been settled in the Neolithic era, and Ziegelroda Forest contains approximately 1,000 barrows.\n\nThe enclosure is oriented in such a way that the sun seems to set every solstice behind the Brocken, the highest peak of the Harz mountains, some 80 km to the north-west. The treasure-hunters claimed the artifacts were discovered within a pit inside the bank-and-ditch enclosure.\n\nThe precise dating of the Nebra sky disk depended upon the dating of a number of Bronze Age weapons, which were offered for sale with the disk and said to be from the same site. These axes and swords can be dated typologically to the mid 2nd millennium BC. Radiocarbon dating of a birchbark particle found on one of the swords to between 1600 and 1560 BC confirmed this estimate. This corresponds to the date of burial, at which time the disk had likely been in existence for several generations.\n\nAccording to an initial analysis of trace elements by x-ray fluorescence by E. Pernicka, then at the University of Freiberg, the copper originated at Bischofshofen in Austria, while the gold was thought to be from the Carpathian Mountains. A more recent analysis found that the gold used in the first phase was from the river Carnon in Cornwall, United Kingdom. The tin present in the bronze was also of Cornish origin.\n\nThe disk as preserved was developed in four stages (Meller 2004):\n\nThe disk may be an astronomical instrument as well as an item of religious significance. The blue-green patina of the bronze may have been an intentional part of the original artifact.\n\nThe find is regarded as reconfirming that the astronomical knowledge and abilities of the people of the European Bronze Age included close observation of the yearly course of the Sun, and the angle between its rising and setting points at the summer and winter solstices. While much older earthworks and megalithic astronomical complexes such as the Goseck circle and Stonehenge had already been used to mark the solstices, the disk is the oldest known \"portable instrument\" to allow such measurements. Pásztor, however, sees no evidence that the disk was a practical device for solar measurements.\n\nEuan MacKie suggests that the Nebra disk may be linked to the solar calendar reconstructed by Alexander Thom from his analysis of standing stone alignments in Britain.\n\nThere were initial suspicions that the disk might be an archaeological forgery. Peter Schauer of the University of Regensburg, Germany, argued in 2005 that the Nebra disk was a fake and that he could prove that the patina of the disk could have been created with urine, hydrochloric acid and a blow torch within a short amount of time. He had to admit in court that he had never held the disk in his own hands, unlike eighteen scientists who had actually examined the disk.\n\nRichard Harrison, professor of European prehistory at the University of Bristol and an expert on the Beaker people, allowed his initial reaction to be quoted in a BBC documentary:\nAlthough Harrison had not seen the skydisk when he was interviewed, his skepticism was reasonable at that point, but the disk is widely accepted now as authentic and is dated to roughly 1600 BC on grounds of typological classification of the associated finds.\nAs the item was not excavated using archaeological methods, even its claimed provenance could have been fictitious - hence its authentication has depended on microphotography of corrosion crystals, which has produced images of structures that could not be reproduced by a faker.\nHarald Meller, lecturing to the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland in April 2008, gave a list of facts supporting the authenticity of the disc, and for its having been found at the site on the Mittelberg. The most persuasive of the latter was the discovery by the archaeologists — in the pit in which the looters said they had found the metalwork — of a fragment of gold leaf exactly fitting the gap present in the gold leaf covering of the 'sun' symbol when it was originally recovered.\n\nThe disk was the center of an exhibition entitled \"Der geschmiedete Himmel\" (German \"The smithied sky\"), showing 1,600 Bronze Age artifacts, including the Trundholm sun chariot, shown at Halle from 15 October 2004 to 22 May 2005, from 1 July to 22 October 2005 in Copenhagen, from 9 November 2005 to 5 February 2006 in Vienna, from 10 March to 16 July 2006 in Mannheim, and from 29 September 2006 to 25 February 2007 in Basel.\n\nOn 20 June 2007 a multimedia visitor center was opened near the discovery site at Nebra.\n\nThe disk is part of the permanent exhibition in the Landesmuseum für Vorgeschichte (State Museum of Prehistory) in Halle.\n\nThe state of Saxony-Anhalt has registered the disk as a trademark, which has resulted in two lawsuits. In 2003, Saxony-Anhalt successfully sued the city of Querfurt for depicting the disk design on souvenirs. Saxony-Anhalt also successfully sued the publishing houses Piper and Heyne over an abstracted depiction of the disk on book covers. The Magdeburg court assessed the case's relevance according to German copyright law. The defenders argued that as a cultic object, the disk had already been \"published\" in the Bronze Age, and that consequently, all protection of intellectual property associated with it has long expired. The plaintiff on the other hand, argued that the \"editio princeps\" of the disk is recent, and according to German law protected for 25 years, until 2027. Another argument concerned the question whether a notable work of art may be registered as a trademark in the first place.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12118912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12118912", "title": "Norwich Anglo-Saxon", "text": "Norwich Anglo-Saxon\n\nThe Norwich Anglo-Saxon is an ancient preserved skeleton of the age of around one thousand years, found in Norwich, England. It is a topic of study and interest in regard to the genetic composition of people of that region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1598786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1598786", "title": "Peanut gallery", "text": "Peanut gallery\n\n__notoc__\n\nA peanut gallery was, in the days of vaudeville, a nickname for the cheapest and ostensibly rowdiest seats in the theater, the occupants of which were often known to heckle the performers. The least expensive snack served at the theatre would often be peanuts, which the patrons would sometimes throw at the performers on stage to convey their disapproval. Phrases such as \"no comments from the peanut gallery\" or \"quiet in the peanut gallery\" are extensions of the name.\n\nIn 1943 the \"Howdy Doody\" children's radio show adopted the name for its live audience of children. Howdy Doody is most remembered for its later transition to television, which continued the Peanut Gallery audience, now on camera.\n\nIn recent times, the term has taken on new meanings with the advent of social networks and online chat rooms. \"Peanut gallery\" may also refer to the stream of open comments visible on certain types of blogs.\n\nA similar term was introduced to Brazilian football by coach Luis Felipe Scolari. He called Palmeiras' complaining audience that sat in the closest seats \"Turma do Amendoim\" (\"peanut gang\").\n\n"}
{"id": "16839759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16839759", "title": "Philippine Commission on Women", "text": "Philippine Commission on Women\n\nThe Philippine Commission on Women (formerly the National Commission on the Role of the Filipino Women), is a government agency run by the government of the Philippines with the intention of promoting and protecting the rights of the Women in the Philippines. It was established on January 7, 1975 through Presidential Decree No. 633.\n\nOn August 14, 2009, the Magna Carta of Women was signed into law providing better protection for women. According to the United Nations' 2009 Human Development Report, the Philippines is 40th out of 155 nations when the gender-related development index is compared directly to the human development index, While the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report for 2009 lists the country at a ranking 9 among of about 130 countries.\n\nOn July 4, 2016, PCW was among the 12 agencies, formerly from the Office of the President reassigned to the Office of the Cabinet Secretary, based on Executive Order No. 1 issued by President Rodrigo Duterte. On October 31, 2018, through Executive Order No. 67, the Commission, along with the National Commission on Muslim Filipinos and the National Youth Commission, was transferred from the Office of the Cabinet Secretary to the Department of the Interior and Local Government.\n\nThe Commission initially established as an advisory body to the President and the Cabinet on policies and programs for the advancement of women. It is mandated \"\"to review, evaluate, and recommend measures, including priorities to ensure the full integration of women for economic, social and cultural development at national, regional and international levels, and to ensure further equality between women and men.\"\n\nThe aims of the organization included the following:\n\nThe Commission was established by President Ferdinand Marcos on January 7, 1975, with the intention of promoting the rights of women. After the People Power Revolution, which installed Corazon Aquino into power, in 1986, the agency focused on women's concerns on policymaking in the government. This included the integration of the principle of gender equality in the 1987 Philippine Constitution.\n\nDuring this period Philippine Development Plan for Women (PDPW) (1989–1992) was adopted through Executive Order No. 348. Shortly after, the \"Women in Nation-Building Act\" (RA 7192) was enacted, which promotes \"the integration of women as full and equal partners of men in development and nation-building\". A campaign, supported by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), was initiated to help government officials and staff with training in promoting equality under a program called Gender and Development (GAD).\n\nThe Commission continued to push for stronger policies and programs on gender equality, with projects such as the Philippine Plan for Gender-Responsive Development (PPGD) (from 1995–2025), a 30-year perspective plan that outlines the policies that enable women to participate benefit from national development. It was the country's main vehicle for implementing the 1995 Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action (BPfA) adopted at the 1995 UN Fourth World Conference on Women.\n\nSince 1998, the commission's focus has been on poverty alleviation, along with the advancement and protection of women's human rights, promoting women's economic empowerment, and promoting gender-responsive governance.\n\nOn August 14, 2009, Philippine President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo signed Republic Act 9710, also known as the Magna Carta of Women. Under the law, the \"National Commission on the Role of Filipino Women\" would be renamed the \"Philippine Commission on Women\". It will give way to the creation of the Gender Ombudsman under the Commission on Human Rights that will specifically handle women's rights concerns. The law will also provide penalties for the violation of the provisions of the magna carta.\n\nFeatures of the law include:\n\nThe Magna Carta of Women guarantees the rights of women, including farmers and rural workers, informal sector workers and the urban poor, indigenous women, and those with disabilities, as well as older women and girls. These guarantees rights that include those involving food security, affordable and secure housing, employment, the recognition and preservation of cultural identity, and to women's inclusion in discussions pertaining to development and peace issues.\n\nThe functions of the Commission include the institution of gender responsiveness in national development plans, by preparing, assessing, and updating the National Plan for Women and by ensuring its implementation and monitoring its performance among the government agencies it is involved with. It also undertakes the advocacy of promoting economic, social and political empowerment of women by providing technical assistance in the strengthening of mechanisms on gender mainstreaming. Aside from this, the Commission ensures contributions by Filipino women to Philippine culture and traditions be preserved and enhanced in the process of modernization.\n\nThe Commission also coordinates with the provisions of the NCRFW by preparing plans for the development of the lives women, with continuous monitoring and assessment with the cooperation of relevant agencies. It also provides a database for information relating to women. Other activities include: gender-consciousness awareness programs, policy studies, legislation reviews that integrate women's concerns, technical services that ensure the development of institutional capabilities for gender and development (GAD) mainstreaming in government agencies and selected partners, monitoring and assessment of the implementation of laws and policies on women including the implementation of international conventions such as the Beijing Platform for Action, and the implementation of pilot projects for the delivery of services for women as basis for policy formulation and program recommendations.\n\n"}
{"id": "16618624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16618624", "title": "Planning and zoning commission", "text": "Planning and zoning commission\n\nA Planning and Zoning Commission is a local elected or appointed government board charged with recommending to the local town or city council the boundaries of the various original zoning district and appropriate regulations to be enforced therein and any proposed amendments thereto and shall collect data and keep itself informed as to the best practices generally in effect in the matter city planning and zoning to the end that it may be qualified to act on measures affecting the present and future movement of traffic, the segregation of residential and business districts and the convenience and safety of persons and property in any way dependent on city planning and zoning. Some jurisdictions may refer to them also planning commissions, planning boards, zoning commissions, and zoning boards.\n\nThe chairman of the Planning and Zoning Commission (or a staff member) is responsible for publishing public hearing in the newspaper about certain matters that come before the commission. Most municipal or county Planning and Zoning Commissions consist of five to seven members. This number does not include alternates. In some states, planning and zoning commissions are regional or county.\n\nSome communities elect planning and zoning commission members. In other jurisdictions, the Planning and Zoning Commissioners are appointed by the Mayor or First Selectman of the city or town and approved by the city's legislative body, i.e. city council, board of aldermen, etc. (some planning commissioners are appointed by the City Commission as a whole). \n\nPlease note that planning and zoning commissions may also be approving agencies for development permits, variances to the zoning code. Other jurisdictions may have separate zoning board of adjustments or appeals appointed by the governing body that perform the function instead of the planning and zoning commission doing it. Some jurisdictions have featured court appointed zoning boards/boards of adjustment and appeals due to the quasi-judicial functions.\n"}
{"id": "2491812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2491812", "title": "Retrogaming", "text": "Retrogaming\n\nRetrogaming, also known as classic gaming and old school gaming, is the playing or collecting of older personal computer, console, and arcade video games in contemporary times. Usually retrogaming is based upon systems that are obsolete or discontinued.\n\nRetrogaming has three main activities; vintage retrogaming, retrogaming emulation, and ported retrogaming. Vintage retrogaming includes games that are played on the original hardware. Emulation involves newer systems simulating old gaming systems, while ported retrogaming allows games to be played on modern hardware via ports or compilations. Additionally, the term could apply to a newer game, but with features similar to those of older games, such as an \"retro RPG\" which features turn-based combat and an isometric camera perspective.\n\nParticipants in the hobby are sometimes known as retrogamers in the United Kingdom, while the terms \"classic gamers\" or \"old school gamers\" are more prevalent in the United States. Similarly, the games are known as retrogames, classic games, or old school games.\n\nRetrogaming has existed since the early years of the video game industry, but was popularized with the popularity of the Internet and emulation technology. It is argued that the main reasons players are drawn to retrogames are nostalgia for different eras, the idea that older games are more innovative and original, and the simplicity of the games that requires less hours of gameplay.\n\nRetrogaming and retrocomputing have been described as preservation activity and as aspects of the remix culture.\n\nRetro games are generally those produced from the 1970s to early 2000s, and can include video games for systems and consoles from the 1st through 6th generations of video game consoles as well as personal computer games for retrocomputing platforms. Arcade games are also popular, and were frequently attributed to individual programmers. The transition between the retro and modern era coincides with the shift from 2D to 3D games. Some games are played on the original hardware; others are played through emulation. Some retro games can still be played online using just the internet browser via DOS emulation. In some cases, entirely new versions of the games are designed, or remade. As well as playing games, a subculture of retrogaming has grown up around the music in retro games.\n\nIn the wake of increasing nostalgia and the success of retro-compilations in the fifth, sixth, and seventh generations of consoles, retrogaming has become a motif in modern games, as well. Modern retrogames impose limitations on color palette, resolution, and memory well below the actual limits of the hardware in order to mimic the look of older hardware. These may be based on a general concept of retro, as with \"Cave Story\", or an attempt to imitate a specific piece of hardware, as with \"La Mulana\" and its MSX color palette.\n\nThis concept, known as Deliberate Retro and NosCon, began to gain traction thanks in part to the independent gaming scene, where the short development time was attractive and commercial viability was not a concern. Major publishers have embraced modern retrogaming with releases such as \"Mega Man 9\", an attempt to mimic NES hardware; \"Retro Game Challenge\", a compilation of new games on faux-NES hardware; and Sega's \"Fantasy Zone II\" remake, which uses emulated System 16 hardware running on PlayStation 2 to create a 16-bit reimagining of the 8-bit original.\n\nVintage retrogaming involves players collecting the original hardware, cartridges, and discs the video games were originally released on. The hardware collected includes arcade systems, old home consoles, and their cartridges and discs. Some of these collectables can be fairly expensive and hard to find, limiting the access to these old games. The vast majority, however, sell for much less than their retail price.\n\nThe popularity of vintage retrogaming has led to the circulation of pirated copies of retro games, which are generally considered to lack the collector value of the original cartridges and discs.\n\nRetrogaming emulation involves older gaming systems being emulated on new hardware. It bypasses the need to collect old consoles and original games. ROMs, read only memory files, are taken directly from the original cartridge or disc from third parties. They are then typically put online through file sharing sites and played via emulators on modern hardware. They are also often sold as re-releases, typically in compilations containing multiple games running on emulation software. Since emulation is a more accessible way to take part in retrogaming, it helped to popularize and expand on the hobby.\n\nPorted retrogaming involves old games being played on new systems, just as emulation. It differs from emulation because the games are being rewritten for the new system and don't use the original ROM files. Ported games are available through official collections, console-based downloads, and plug and play systems. Ported retrogaming is comparatively rare, since emulation is a much easier and more accurate method of running retro games on modern hardware.\n\nModern retrogaming may sometimes be more broadly applied to games that feature retro-style designs and reimaginings with more modern graphics. These enhanced remakes include \"\", \"Space Invaders Extreme\", \"Super Mega Worm\", \"3D Dot Game Heroes\". Some are based directly upon the enhanced emulation of original games, as with Nintendo's \"NES Remix\".\nWhen remakes are created by an individual or a group of enthusiasts without commercial motivation, such games sometimes are also called fangames. These are often motivated by the phenomenon of abandonware, which is the discontinuation of sales and support by the original producers. Examples of fan-made remakes are \"\", \"\", and \"Freeciv\".\n\nThe nostalgia-based revival of older game styles has also been accompanied by the development of the modern chiptune genre of game music. Chiptunes are characterized by severe limitations of sound imposed by the author's self-restriction to using only the original sound chips from 8-bit or 16-bit games. These compositions are featured in many retro-style modern games and are popular in the demoscene.\n\nWith the new possibility of the digital distribution in mid-2000 the commercial distribution of old classical game titles became feasible again as deployment and storage costs dropped significantly: \n\nA digital distributor specialized in bringing old games out of abandonware is \"GOG.com\" (formerly called \"Good Old Games\") who started 2008 to search for copyright holders of classic games to re-release them legally and DRM-free.\n\nNotable online platforms for classic video game re-releases include Nintendo's Virtual Console and Sony's PlayStation Network.\n\nMobile application developers have been purchasing the rights and licensing to re-release vintage arcade games on iOS and Android operating systems. Some publishers are creating spinoffs to their classic games, keeping the core gameplay while adding new features, levels, and styles of play.\n\nPlug-and-play systems have been released or licensed by companies such as Atari, Sega, and Nintendo. These systems include stand-alone game libraries and plug directly into the user’s television.\n\nThe video game industry has an active audience, including the retrogaming sector. The retrogaming community has both online and physical spaces where retrogames are discussed, collected, and played.\n\nThere are several websites and online forums devoted to both retrogaming and video games in general. The content on these online platforms typically includes reviews of older games, interviews with developers, fan-made content, game walkthroughs, and message boards for discussions. Many gameplay videos posted online feature attempts at breaking speedrun or high score records.\n\nThe competitive Fighting game community traces its legacy from old-school arcades. Some fighting games have continued to receive arcade releases after the end of the arcade era. Face-to-face competition of \"Super Street Fighter II Turbo\" has been featured in the Evolution Championship Series.\n\nThere are several events that retrogamers can take part in. Exhibits typically include vendors, retrogames available to play, tournaments, costumes, and live music, such as the Vancouver Retro Gaming Expo, run by Phase 3 events. This event has been occurring annually since March 17, 2012.\n\nRetrogaming is recognized by museums worldwide. For example, the \"RetroGames\" arcade museum of Karlsruhe, Germany was founded in 2002 and the Computerspielemuseum Berlin was founded in 1997. Some classical art museums bear a video gaming retrospective, as with 2012's Smithsonian American Art Museum exhibition titled \"The Art of Video Games\" or as part of the Museum of Modern Art \"Applied Design\" exhibition in 2013. Starting in 2015, The National Museum of Play adds games annually to the World Video Game Hall of Fame.\n\nThough many abandonware titles are available for free download on third-party websites, the duration of copyright on creative works in most countries is far longer than the era of home computing.\n\nEmulators are typically created by third parties, and the software they run is often taken directly from the original games and put online for free download. While it is completely legal for anyone to create an emulator for any hardware, unauthorized distribution of the code for a retro game is an infringement of the game's copyright. Some companies have made public statements regarding the issues, such as Nintendo, stating that \"the introduction of emulators created to play illegally copied Nintendo software represents the greatest threat to date in the intellectual property rights of video game developers”. However, video game developers and publishers typically turn a blind eye to emulation. One reason for this is that at any given time, most of the games illegally distributed for emulation are not presently being sold by the company which owns the game, and so the damages the company would collect in the event of a successful lawsuit would most likely be negligible.\n\n\nWireless Controller For NES Classic Edition\nretrogaming8-bit.com\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20171019163302/https://www.retrogaming8-bit.com/"}
{"id": "4740631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4740631", "title": "Ron Rash", "text": "Ron Rash\n\nRon Rash (born September 25, 1953), an American poet, short story writer and novelist, is the Parris Distinguished Professor in Appalachian Cultural Studies at Western Carolina University.\n\nRash was born on September 25, 1953 in Chester, South Carolina and grew up in Boiling Springs, North Carolina. He is a graduate of Gardner-Webb University and Clemson University from which he holds a B.A. and M.A. in English, respectively.\n\nRash's poems and stories have appeared in more than 100 magazines and journals. \"Serena\" received enthusiastic reviews across and beyond the United States and was a 2009 PEN/Faulkner Award Finalist.\n\nIn addition to being a bestselling novelist, Rash has achieved international acclaim as a short story author, winning the Frank O'Connor Award in 2010 for \"Burning Bright.\" Recent work such as \"The Outlaws\" (\"Oxford American\", Summer, 2013) demonstrates Rash's ability to create universal tragedies out of ordinary lives in southern Appalachia. Scholars have praised his ability to find the universal within the particulars of place, citing his writing's \"universal appeal, lyrical grace, and narrative efficiency.\" \n\nRon Rash holds the John and Dorothy Parris Professorship in Appalachian Cultural Studies at Western Carolina University, where he teaches poetry and fiction-writing in the Department of English.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12155645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12155645", "title": "Separation of mechanism and policy", "text": "Separation of mechanism and policy\n\nThe separation of mechanism and policy is a design principle in computer science. It states that mechanisms (those parts of a system implementation that control the authorization of operations and the allocation of resources) should not dictate (or overly restrict) the policies according to which decisions are made about which operations to authorize, and which resources to allocate.\n\nThis is most commonly discussed in the context of security mechanisms (authentication and authorization), but is actually applicable to a much wider range of resource allocation\nproblems (e.g. CPU scheduling, memory allocation, quality of service), and the general \nquestion of good object abstraction.\n\nPer Brinch Hansen introduced the concept of separation of policy and mechanism in operating systems in the RC 4000 multiprogramming system. Artsy and Livny, in a 1987 paper, discussed an approach for an operating system design having an \"extreme separation of mechanism and policy\". In a 2000 article, Chervenak et al. described the principles of \"mechanism neutrality\" and \"policy neutrality\".\n\nThe separation of mechanism and policy is the fundamental approach of a microkernel that distinguishes it from a monolithic one. In a microkernel the majority of operating system services are provided by user-level server processes. It is important for an operating system to have the flexibility of providing adequate mechanisms to support the broadest possible spectrum of real-world security policies.\n\nIt is almost impossible to envision all of the different ways in which a system might be used by different types of users over the life of the product. This means that any hard-coded policies are likely to be inadequate or inappropriate for some (or perhaps even most) potential users.\nDecoupling the mechanism implementations from the policy specifications makes it possible for different applications to use the same mechanism implementations with different policies. This means that those mechanisms are likely to better meet the needs of a wider range of users, for a longer period of time.\n\nIf it is possible to enable new policies without changing the implementing mechanisms, the costs and risks of such policy changes can be greatly reduced. In the first instance, this could be accomplished merely by segregating mechanisms and their policies into distinct modules: by replacing the module which dictates a policy (e.g. CPU scheduling policy) without changing the module which executes this policy (e.g. the scheduling mechanism), we can change the behaviour of the system. Further, in cases where a wide or variable range of policies are anticipated depending on applications' needs, it makes sense to create some non-code means for specifying policies, i.e. policies are not hardcoded into executable code but can be specified as an independent description. For instance, file protection policies (e.g. Unix's \"user/group/other read/write/execute\") might be parametrized. Alternatively an implementing mechanism could be designed to include an interpreter for a new policy specification language. In both cases, the systems are usually accompanied by a mechanism (e.g. configuration files, or APIs) that permits policy specifications to be incorporated to the system or replaced by another after it has been delivered to the customer.\n\nAn everyday example of mechanism/policy separation is the use of card keys to gain access to locked doors. The mechanisms (magnetic card readers, remote controlled locks, connections to a security server) do not impose any limitations on entrance policy (which people should be allowed to enter which doors, at which times). These decisions are made by a centralized security server, which (in turn) probably makes its decisions by consulting a database of room access rules. Specific authorization decisions can be changed by updating a room access database. If the rule schema of that database proved too limiting, the entire security server could be replaced while leaving the fundamental mechanisms (readers, locks, and connections) unchanged.\n\nContrast this with issuing physical keys: if you want to change who can open a door, you have to issue new keys and change the lock. This intertwines the unlocking mechanisms with the access policies. For a hotel, this is significantly less effective than using key cards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26752747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26752747", "title": "Spiritual Heritage of India (book)", "text": "Spiritual Heritage of India (book)\n\nThe Spiritual Heritage of India is a book written by Swami Prabhavananda (1893–1976), founder and head of the Vedanta Society of Southern California from 1930 until his death. Originally published in 1962 by Doubleday, the book has been republished with the same title in several later editions, including hardcover, paperback, and sound recording. It has been reviewed in magazines and professional journals. A foreword by Huston Smith was first included in a 1979 edition.\n\nFollowing an 8 page introduction, \"The Spiritual Heritage of India\" is divided into five major sections or \"books\":\n\nThe book concludes with a bibliography and index. In the foreword, Smith wrote that one of the book's\n\nmany virtues is the way it integrates the variety in the Indian heritage which, left to itself, can be bewildering. Even Buddhism and Jainism, technically considered by Hindus to be unorthodox, are here shown to be authentic expressions of the basic Indian vision. Or the Six Systems of Indian Philosophy; often regarded as competitors, they are here shown to complement one another... Indian thought as it emerges in the reading of this book is... pre-disciplinary in the rich and holistic way that Biblical, Chinese and early Greek thought are. (p. 9)\n\nA reviewer in the magazine \"Books Abroad\" (later renamed as \"World Literature Today\") stated that \"The Spiritual Heritage of India offers a clear Indian view of a subject that currently suffers from too much Western commentary,\" and that \"Prabhavananda treats India's spiritual heritage in terms of 'immediate perception,' as opposed to abstract speculation... his own translations, though limited in this volume, embody unusual poetic power\" (p. 101).\n\n\"Christian Century\" wrote that \"As India seeks to define herself as a secular state it becomes ever more important for us to be informed about the kinds of theisms and nontheisms that go into her religious philosophy. <nowiki>[Prabhavananda's book]</nowiki> is a comprehensive survey; little previous familiarity is necessary on the reader's part\" (p. 619). \n\"Publishers Weekly\", stated that in this book \"Swami Prabhavananda, [who is] a recognized authority on the subject of Indian religion and philosophy [and] whose books are used as texts at Indian universities, explains in detail the various schools of religious thought that have developed in India\" (p. 47).\n\nA reviewer in the academic journal \"Philosophy\" stated that \"Swami Prabhavananda has written a charming and authoritative book on the spiritual heritage of India, by which he means that heritage in consonance with the Vedic tradition and its culmination in Vedanta\" (p. 376). \nThe reviewer stated that \"throughout the book breathes an air of relaxed simplicity and conviction... I was particularly refreshed by the absence of attacks on science, materialism, naturalism, and other such means to spiritual fulfilment\" (pp. 376–377). A reviewer in the \"Hibbert Journal\" stated that \"True to the spirit of Ramakrishna to whose Order of Monks he belongs, he is extremely catholic in his spiritual outlook, which makes his book imbued with wide sympathies and understanding. The non-specialist reader will find it a good and reliable introduction to the spiritual heritage of India. But it will be useful also to the more serious student of Indian philosophy and religion, since it covers almost the whole field of spiritual thought and practice in that ancient land\"\n(pp. 349–350).\n\n\"The Spiritual Heritage of India\" was discussed in Antony Copley's (2006) book about Prabhavananda's disciple Christopher Isherwood, a well-known literary figure. Copley noted that Prabhavananda wrote two overviews of Indian philosophy, \"Vedic Religion and Philosophy\" (1937) and \"The Spiritual Heritage of India\" (1962). According to Copley, in the later book, \"more space is given to the heterodox while trying to incorporate them within the orthodox. He saw the teachings of the Tantras as compatible with those of the Upanishads. Here the role of the eternal feminine is introduced; the power of shakti, of God the mother, inseparable from the Absolute... He also sets out more fully an account of the psychology of yoga. Intriguingly, he tries to demonstrate that Freud's two basic instincts, Eros and Thanatos, translated here as the will to live and the will to death - and quite clearly in America with its cult of psychoanalysis Prabhavananda could not continue to ignore Freud - can be incorporated into yoga psychology\" (pp. 238–239).\n\nThe original edition was published by in London by Allen and Unwin in 1962. Editions include: \n"}
{"id": "26940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26940", "title": "Steven Spielberg", "text": "Steven Spielberg\n\nSteven Allan Spielberg (born December 18, 1946) is an American filmmaker. He is considered one of the founding pioneers of the New Hollywood era and one of the most popular directors and producers in film history.\n\nAfter gaining traction in Hollywood with directing television and several minor theatrical releases, Spielberg became a household name as the director of \"Jaws\" (1975), which was critically and commercially successful, and is considered the first summer blockbuster. His subsequent releases focused typically on science fiction and adventure films, with \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\" (1977), the \"Indiana Jones\" series, \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" (1982), and the \"Jurassic Park\" series seen as archetypes of modern Hollywood escapist filmmaking. Spielberg transitioned into addressing humanistic issues in his later work via the films \"The Color Purple\" (1985), \"Empire of the Sun\" (1987), \"Schindler's List\" (1993), \"Amistad\" (1997) and \"Saving Private Ryan\" (1998). He has largely adhered to this practice during the 21st century, with \"Munich\" (2005), \"Lincoln\" (2012), \"Bridge of Spies\" (2015), and \"The Post\" (2017).\n\nSpielberg co-founded Amblin Entertainment and DreamWorks Studios, where he has also served as a producer for several successful films, including the \"Back to the Future\", \"Men in Black\", and \"Transformers\" series. Spielberg later transitioned into producing several games within the video-game industry.\n\nSpielberg is one of the American film industry's most critically successful filmmakers, with praise for his directing talent and versatility, and has won the Academy Award for Best Director twice. Some of his movies are also among the highest-grossing movies of all-time, while his total work, unadjusted for ticket-price inflation, makes him the highest-grossing film director in history. His net worth is estimated to be more than $3 billion.\n\nSpielberg was born on December 18, 1946 in Cincinnati, Ohio. His mother, Leah (née Posner, later Adler; January 12, 1920 – February 21, 2017), was a restaurateur and concert pianist, and his father, Arnold Spielberg (born 1917), was an electrical engineer involved in the development of computers. His family was Orthodox Jewish. Spielberg's paternal grandparents were Jewish Ukrainian immigrants who settled in Cincinnati in the 1900s; his grandmother was from Sudylkiv, while his grandfather was from Kamianets-Podilskyi. In 1950, his family moved to Haddon Township, New Jersey, when his father took a job with RCA. Three years later, the family moved to Phoenix, Arizona. Spielberg attended Hebrew school from 1953 to 1957, in classes taught by Rabbi Albert L. Lewis.\n\nAs a child, Spielberg faced difficulty reconciling being an Orthodox Jew with the perception of him by other children he played with. \"It isn't something I enjoy admitting,\" he once said, \"but when I was seven, eight, nine years old, God forgive me, I was embarrassed because we were Orthodox Jews. I was embarrassed by the outward perception of my parents' Jewish practices. I was never really ashamed to be Jewish, but I was uneasy at times.\" Spielberg also said he suffered from acts of anti-Semitic prejudice and bullying: \"In high school, I got smacked and kicked around. Two bloody noses. It was horrible.\" At age 12, he made his first home movie: a train wreck involving his toy Lionel trains. Throughout his early teens, and after entering high school, Spielberg continued to make amateur 8 mm \"adventure\" films.\n\nIn 1958, he became a Boy Scout and fulfilled a requirement for the photography merit badge by making a nine-minute 8 mm film entitled \"The Last Gunfight\". Years later, Spielberg recalled to a magazine interviewer, \"My dad's still-camera was broken, so I asked the scoutmaster if I could tell a story with my father's movie camera. He said yes, and I got an idea to do a Western. I made it and got my merit badge. That was how it all started.\"\nAt age 13, while living in Phoenix, Spielberg won a prize for a 40-minute war film he titled \"Escape to Nowhere\"… using a cast composed of other high school friends. That motivated him to make 15 more amateur 8 mm films. In 1963, at age 16, Spielberg wrote and directed his first independent film, a 140-minute science fiction adventure called \"Firelight\", which would later inspire \"Close Encounters\". The film was made for $500, most of which came from his father, and was shown in a local cinema for one evening, which earned back its cost.\n\nAfter attending Arcadia High School in Phoenix for three years, his family next moved to Saratoga, California, where he later graduated from Saratoga High School in 1965. He attained the rank of Eagle Scout. His parents divorced while he was still in school, and soon after he graduated Spielberg moved to Los Angeles, staying initially with his father. His long-term goal was to become a film director. His three sisters and mother remained in Saratoga. In Los Angeles, he applied to the University of Southern California's film school, but was turned down because of his \"C\" grade average. He then applied and was admitted to California State University, Long Beach, where he became a brother of Theta Chi Fraternity.\n\nWhile still a student, he was offered a small unpaid intern job at Universal Studios with the editing department. He was later given the opportunity to make a short film for theatrical release, the 26-minute, 35 mm, \"Amblin'\", which he wrote and directed. Studio vice president Sidney Sheinberg was impressed by the film, which had won a number of awards, and offered Spielberg a seven-year directing contract. It made him the youngest director ever to be signed for a long-term deal with a major Hollywood studio. He subsequently dropped out of college to begin professionally directing TV productions with Universal. Spielberg later returned to California State University, Long Beach and completed his BA degree in Film and Electronic Arts in 2002.\n\nHis first professional TV job came when he was hired to direct one of the segments for the 1969 pilot episode of \"Night Gallery\", written by Rod Serling and starring Joan Crawford. Crawford, however, was \"speechless, and then horrified\" at the thought of a twenty-one-year-old newcomer directing her, one of Hollywood's leading stars. \"Why was this happening to me?\" she asked the producer. Her attitude changed after they began working on her scenes:\n\nShe and Spielberg were reportedly close friends until her death. The episode is unusual in his body of work, in that the camerawork is more highly stylized than his later, more \"mature\" films. After this, and an episode of \"Marcus Welby, M.D.\", Spielberg got his first feature-length assignment: an episode of \"The Name of the Game\" called \"L.A. 2017\". This futuristic science fiction episode impressed Universal Studios and they signed him to a short contract. He did another segment on \"Night Gallery\" and did some work for shows such as \"\" and \"The Psychiatrist\", before landing the first series episode of \"Columbo\" (previous episodes were actually TV films).\n\nBased on the strength of his work, Universal signed Spielberg to do four TV films. The first was a Richard Matheson adaptation called \"Duel\". The film is about a psychotic Peterbilt 281 tanker truck driver who chases the terrified driver (Dennis Weaver) of a small Plymouth Valiant and tries to run him off the road. Special praise of this film by the influential British critic Dilys Powell was highly significant to Spielberg's career. Another TV film (\"Something Evil\") was made and released to capitalize on the popularity of \"The Exorcist\", then a major best-selling book which had not yet been released as a film. He fulfilled his contract by directing the TV film-length pilot of a show called \"Savage\", starring Martin Landau. Spielberg's debut full-length feature film was \"The Sugarland Express\", about a married couple who are chased by police as the couple tries to regain custody of their baby. Spielberg's cinematography for the police chase was praised by reviewers, and \"The Hollywood Reporter\" stated that \"a major new director is on the horizon.\" However, the film fared poorly at the box office and received a limited release.\n\nStudio producers Richard D. Zanuck and David Brown offered Spielberg the director's chair for \"Jaws\", a thriller-horror film based on the Peter Benchley novel about an enormous killer shark. Spielberg has often referred to the gruelling shoot as his professional crucible. Despite the film's ultimate, enormous success, it was nearly shut down due to delays and budget over-runs. But Spielberg persevered and finished the film. It was an enormous hit, winning three Academy Awards (for editing, original score and sound) and grossing more than $470 million worldwide at the box office. It also set the domestic record for box office gross, leading to what the press described as \"Jawsmania.\" \"Jaws\" made Spielberg a household name and one of America's youngest multi-millionaires, allowing him a great deal of autonomy for his future projects. It was nominated for Best Picture and featured Spielberg's first of three collaborations with actor Richard Dreyfuss.\n\nRejecting offers to direct \"Jaws 2\", \"King Kong\" and \"Superman\", Spielberg and actor Richard Dreyfuss re-convened to work on a film about UFOs, which became \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\" (1977). One of the rare films both written and directed by Spielberg, \"Close Encounters\" was a critical and box office hit, giving Spielberg his first Best Director nomination from the Academy as well as earning six other Academy Awards nominations. It won Oscars in two categories (Cinematography, Vilmos Zsigmond, and a Special Achievement Award for Sound Effects Editing, Frank E. Warner). This second blockbuster helped to secure Spielberg's rise. His next film, \"1941\", a big-budgeted World War II farce, was not nearly as successful and though it grossed over $92.4 million worldwide (and did make a small profit for co-producing studios Columbia and Universal) it was seen as a disappointment, mainly with the critics.\n\nSpielberg then revisited his \"Close Encounters\" project and, with financial backing from Columbia Pictures, released \"Close Encounters: The Special Edition\" in 1980. For this, Spielberg fixed some of the flaws he thought impeded the original 1977 version of the film and also, at the behest of Columbia, and as a condition of Spielberg revising the film, shot additional footage showing the audience the interior of the mothership seen at the end of the film (a decision Spielberg would later regret as he felt the interior of the mothership should have remained a mystery). Nevertheless, the re-release was a moderate success, while the 2001 DVD release of the film restored the original ending.\n\nNext, Spielberg teamed with \"Star Wars\" creator and friend George Lucas on an action adventure film, \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\", the first of the Indiana Jones films. The archaeologist and adventurer hero Indiana Jones was played by Harrison Ford (whom Lucas had previously cast in his \"Star Wars\" films as Han Solo). The film was considered an homage to the cliffhanger serials of the Golden Age of Hollywood. It became the biggest film at the box office in 1981, and the recipient of numerous Oscar nominations including Best Director (Spielberg's second nomination) and Best Picture (the second Spielberg film to be nominated for Best Picture). \"Raiders\" is still considered a landmark example of the action-adventure genre. The film also led to Ford's casting in Ridley Scott's \"Blade Runner\".\n\nA year later, Spielberg returned to the science fiction genre with \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\". It was the story of a young boy and the alien he befriends, who was accidentally left behind by his companions and is attempting to return home. \"E.T.\" went on to become the top-grossing film of all time. It was also nominated for nine Academy Awards including Best Picture and Best Director and it won 4 out of them.\nBetween 1982 and 1985, Spielberg produced three high-grossing films: \"Poltergeist\" (for which he also co-wrote the screenplay), a big-screen adaptation of \"\" (for which he directed the segment \"Kick The Can\"), and \"The Goonies\" (Spielberg, executive producer, also wrote the story on which the screenplay was based). Spielberg appeared in a cameo on Cyndi Lauper's music video for the movie's theme song, \"The Goonies 'R' Good Enough\".\nHis next directorial feature was the \"Raiders\" prequel \"Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom\". Teaming up once again with Lucas and Ford, the film was plagued with uncertainty for the material and script. This film and the Spielberg-produced \"Gremlins\" led to the creation of the PG-13 rating due to the high level of violence in films targeted at younger audiences. In spite of this, \"Temple of Doom\" is rated PG by the MPAA, even though it is the darkest and, possibly, most violent Indy film. Nonetheless, the film was still a huge blockbuster hit in 1984. It was on this project that Spielberg also met his future wife, actress Kate Capshaw.\n\nIn 1985, Spielberg released \"The Color Purple,\" an adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel of the same name, about a generation of empowered African-American women during depression-era America. Starring Whoopi Goldberg and future talk-show superstar Oprah Winfrey, the film was a box office smash and critics hailed Spielberg's successful foray into the dramatic genre. Roger Ebert proclaimed it the best film of the year and later entered it into his Great Films archive. The film received eleven Academy Award nominations, including two for Goldberg and Winfrey. However, Spielberg did not get a Best Director nomination.\n\nIn 1987, as China began opening to Western capital investment, Spielberg shot the first American film in Shanghai since the 1930s, an adaptation of J. G. Ballard's autobiographical novel \"Empire of the Sun\", starring John Malkovich and a young Christian Bale. The film garnered much praise from critics and was nominated for several Oscars, but did not yield substantial box office revenues. Reviewer Andrew Sarris called it the best film of the year and later included it among the best films of the decade. Spielberg was also a co-producer of the 1987 film \"*batteries not included\".\n\nAfter two forays into more serious dramatic films, Spielberg then directed the third Indiana Jones film, 1989's \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\". Once again teaming up with Lucas and Ford, Spielberg also cast actor Sean Connery in a supporting role as Indy's father. The film earned generally positive reviews and was another box office success, becoming the highest-grossing film worldwide that year; its total box office receipts even topped those of Tim Burton's much-anticipated film \"Batman\", which had been the bigger hit domestically. Also in 1989, he re-united with actor Richard Dreyfuss for the romantic comedy-drama \"Always\", about a daredevil pilot who extinguishes forest fires. Spielberg's first romantic film, \"Always\" was only a moderate success and had mixed reviews.\n\nIn 1991, Spielberg directed \"Hook\", about a middle-aged Peter Pan, played by Robin Williams, who returns to Neverland. Despite innumerable rewrites and creative changes coupled with mixed reviews, the film proved popular with audiences, making over $300 million worldwide (from a $70 million budget).\n\nIn 1993, Spielberg returned to the adventure genre with the film version of Michael Crichton's novel \"Jurassic Park\", about a theme park with genetically engineered dinosaurs. With revolutionary special effects provided by friend George Lucas's Industrial Light & Magic company, the film would eventually become the highest-grossing film of all time (at the worldwide box office) with $914.7 million. This would be the third time that one of Spielberg's films became the highest-grossing film ever.\n\nSpielberg's next film, \"Schindler's List\", was based on the true story of Oskar Schindler, a man who risked his life to save 1,100 Jews from the Holocaust. \"Schindler's List\" earned Spielberg his first Academy Award for Best Director (it also won Best Picture). With the film a huge success at the box office, Spielberg used the profits to set up the Shoah Foundation, a non-profit organization that archives filmed testimony of Holocaust survivors. In 1997, the American Film Institute listed it among the 10 Greatest American Films ever Made (#9) which moved up to (#8) when the list was remade in 2007.\n\nIn 1994, Spielberg took a hiatus from directing to spend more time with his family and build his new studio, DreamWorks, with partners Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen. In 1996, he directed the sequel to 1993's \"Jurassic Park\" with \"\", which generated over $618 million worldwide despite mixed reviews, and was the second biggest film of 1997 behind James Cameron's \"Titanic\" (which topped the original \"Jurassic Park\" to become the new recordholder for box office receipts).\nHis next film, \"Amistad\", was based on a true story (like \"Schindler's List\"), specifically about an African slave rebellion. Despite decent reviews from critics, it did not do well at the box office. Spielberg released \"Amistad\" under DreamWorks Pictures, which has produced all of his films from \"Amistad\" onwards with the exception of \"Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull\", \"The Adventures of Tintin\" and \"Ready Player One\".\n\nHis 1998 theatrical release was the World War II film \"Saving Private Ryan\", about a group of U.S. soldiers led by Capt. Miller (Tom Hanks) sent to bring home a paratrooper whose three older brothers were killed in the same twenty-four hours, June 5–6, of the Normandy landing. The film was a huge box office success, grossing over $481 million worldwide and was the biggest film of the year at the North American box office (worldwide it made second place after Michael Bay's \"Armageddon\"). Spielberg won his second Academy Award for his direction. The film's graphic, realistic depiction of combat violence influenced later war films such as \"Black Hawk Down\" and \"Enemy at the Gates\". The film was also the first major hit for DreamWorks, which co-produced the film with Paramount Pictures (as such, it was Spielberg's first release from the latter that was not part of the \"Indiana Jones\" series). Later, Spielberg and Tom Hanks produced a TV mini-series based on Stephen Ambrose's book \"Band of Brothers\". The ten-part HBO mini-series follows Easy Company of the 101st Airborne Division's 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment. The series won a number of awards at the Golden Globes and the Emmys.\n\nIn 2001, Spielberg filmed fellow director and friend Stanley Kubrick's final project, \"A.I. Artificial Intelligence\" which Kubrick was unable to begin during his lifetime. A futuristic film about a humanoid android longing for love, \"A.I.\" featured groundbreaking visual effects and a multi-layered, allegorical storyline, adapted by Spielberg himself. Though the film's reception in the US was relatively muted, it performed better overseas for a worldwide total box office gross of $236 million.\n\nSpielberg and actor Tom Cruise collaborated for the first time for the futuristic neo-noir \"Minority Report\", based upon the science fiction short story written by Philip K. Dick about a Washington D.C. police captain in the year 2054 who has been foreseen to murder a man he has not yet met. The film received strong reviews with the review tallying website Rotten Tomatoes giving it a 92% approval rating, reporting that 206 out of the 225 reviews they tallied were positive. The film earned over $358 million worldwide. Roger Ebert, who named it the best film of 2002, praised its breathtaking vision of the future as well as for the way Spielberg blended CGI with live-action.\n\nSpielberg's 2002 film \"Catch Me If You Can\" is about the daring adventures of a youthful con artist (played by Leonardo DiCaprio). It earned Christopher Walken an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. The film is known for John Williams's score and its unique title sequence. It was a hit both commercially and critically.\n\nSpielberg collaborated again with Tom Hanks along with Catherine Zeta-Jones and Stanley Tucci in 2004's \"The Terminal\", a warm-hearted comedy about a man of Eastern European descent who is stranded in an airport. It received mixed reviews but performed relatively well at the box office. In 2005, \"Empire\" magazine ranked Spielberg number one on a list of the greatest film directors of all time.\n\nAlso in 2005, Spielberg directed a modern adaptation of \"War of the Worlds\" (a co-production of Paramount and DreamWorks), based on the H. G. Wells book of the same name (Spielberg had been a huge fan of the book and the original 1953 film). It starred Tom Cruise and Dakota Fanning, and, as with past Spielberg films, Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) provided the visual effects. Unlike \"E.T.\" and \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\", which depicted friendly alien visitors, \"War of the Worlds\" featured violent invaders. The film was another huge box office smash, grossing over $591 million worldwide.\n\nSpielberg's film \"Munich\", about the events following the 1972 Munich Massacre of Israeli athletes at the Olympic Games, was his second film essaying Jewish relations in the world (the first being \"Schindler's List\"). The film is based on \"Vengeance\", a book by Canadian journalist George Jonas. It was previously adapted into the 1986 made-for-TV film \"Sword of Gideon\". The film received strong critical praise, but underperformed at the U.S. and world box-office; it remains one of Spielberg's most controversial films to date. \"Munich\" received five Academy Awards nominations, including Best Picture, Film Editing, Original Music Score (by John Williams), Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Director for Spielberg. It was Spielberg's sixth Best Director nomination and fifth Best Picture nomination.\n\nIn June 2006, Steven Spielberg announced he would direct a scientifically accurate film about \"a group of explorers who travel through a worm hole and into another dimension\", from a treatment by Kip Thorne and producer Lynda Obst. In January 2007, screenwriter Jonathan Nolan met with them to discuss adapting Obst and Thorne's treatment into a narrative screenplay. The screenwriter suggested the addition of a \"time element\" to the treatment's basic idea, which was welcomed by Obst and Thorne. In March of that year, Paramount hired Nolan, as well as scientists from Caltech, forming a workshop to adapt the treatment under the title \"Interstellar\". The following July, Kip Thorne said there was a push by people for him to portray himself in the film. Spielberg later abandoned \"Interstellar\", which was eventually directed by Christopher Nolan.\n\nSpielberg directed \"Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull\", which wrapped filming in October 2007 and was released on May 22, 2008. This was his first film not to be released by DreamWorks since 1997. The film received generally positive reviews from critics, and was financially successful, grossing $786 million worldwide.\n\nIn early 2009, Spielberg shot the first film in a planned trilogy of motion capture films based on \"The Adventures of Tintin\", written by Belgian artist Hergé, with Peter Jackson. \"\", was not released until October 2011, due to the complexity of the computer animation involved. The world premiere took place on October 22, 2011 in Brussels, Belgium. The film was released in North American theaters on December 21, 2011, in Digital 3D and IMAX. It received generally positive reviews from critics, and grossed over $373 million worldwide. \"The Adventures of Tintin\" won the award for Best Animated Feature Film at the Golden Globe Awards that year. It is the first non-Pixar film to win the award since the category was first introduced. Jackson has been announced to direct the second film.\n\nSpielberg followed with \"War Horse\", shot in England in the summer of 2010. It was released just four days after \"The Adventures of Tintin\", on December 25, 2011. The film, based on the novel of the same name written by Michael Morpurgo and published in 1982, follows the long friendship between a British boy and his horse Joey before and during World War I – the novel was also adapted into a hit play in London which is still running there, as well as on Broadway. Distributed by Walt Disney Studios, with whom DreamWorks made a distribution deal in 2009, \"War Horse\" was the first of four consecutive Spielberg films released by Disney. \"War Horse\" received generally positive reviews from critics, and was nominated for six Academy Awards, including Best Picture.\n\nSpielberg next directed the historical drama film \"Lincoln\", starring Daniel Day-Lewis as United States President Abraham Lincoln and Sally Field as Mary Todd Lincoln. Based on Doris Kearns Goodwin's bestseller \"\", the film covered the final four months of Lincoln's life. Written by Tony Kushner, the film was shot in Richmond, Virginia, in late 2011, and was released in the United States in November 2012. Upon release, \"Lincoln\" received widespread critical acclaim, and was nominated for twelve Academy Awards (the most of any film that year) including Best Picture and Best Director for Spielberg. It won the award for Best Production Design and Day-Lewis won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his portrayal of Lincoln, becoming the first three-time winner in that category as well as the first to win for a performance directed by Spielberg.\n\nIt was announced on May 2, 2013, that Spielberg would direct the film about the story of U.S. sniper Chris Kyle, titled \"American Sniper\". However, on August 5, 2013, it was announced that Spielberg had decided not to direct the film, which was instead directed by Clint Eastwood.\nSpielberg directed 2015's \"Bridge of Spies\", a Cold War thriller based on the 1960 U-2 incident, and focusing on James B. Donovan's negotiations with the Soviets for the release of pilot Gary Powers after his aircraft was shot down over Soviet territory. The film starred Tom Hanks as Donovan, as well as Mark Rylance, Amy Ryan, and Alan Alda, with a script by the Coen brothers. The film was shot from September to December 2014 on location in New York City, Berlin and Wroclaw, Poland (which doubled for East Berlin), and was released on October 16, 2015. \"Bridge of Spies\" received positive reviews from critics, and was nominated for six Academy Awards, including Best Picture; Rylance won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, becoming the second actor to win for a performance directed by Spielberg.\n\nSpielberg's \"The BFG\" is an adaptation of Roald Dahl's celebrated children's story, starring newcomer Ruby Barnhill, and Rylance as the titular Big Friendly Giant. DreamWorks bought the rights in 2010, originally intending John Madden to direct. The film was the last to be written by \"E.T.\" screenwriter Melissa Mathison before she died. It was co-produced and released by Walt Disney Pictures, marking the first Disney-branded film to be directed by Spielberg. \"The BFG\" premiered out of competition at the Cannes Film Festival on May 14, 2016 and received a wide release in the US on July 1, 2016.\n\nSpielberg directed Tom Hanks and Meryl Streep in \"The Post\", an account of \"The Washington Post\"'s printing of the Pentagon Papers. Production began in New York on May 30, 2017. The film began a limited release on December 22, 2017, with a wide release following on January 12, 2018.\n\nSpielberg directed the film adaptation of the popular sci-fi novel \"Ready Player One\", by Ernest Cline. The film stars Tye Sheridan, Olivia Cooke, Ben Mendelsohn, Simon Pegg and Mark Rylance. It began production in London in July 2016, a year before \"The Post\", which was filmed, edited and released during the lengthy, effects-heavy post-production period for \"Ready Player One\". \"Ready Player One\" was originally slated to be released on December 15, 2017 by Warner Bros., but was pushed back to March 29, 2018, to avoid competition with \"\". It had its world premiere at the South by Southwest film festival, on March 11, 2018.\n\nDuring an interview with \"The Tech\" in 2015, Spielberg described how he chooses the film projects he would work on:\n\n[Sometimes], a story speaks to me, even if it doesn't speak to any of my collaborators or any of my partners, who look at me and scratch their heads and say, 'Gee, are you sure you wanna get into that trench for a year and a half?' I love people challenging me that way because it's a real test about my own convictions and [whether] I can be the standing man of my own life and take a stand on a subject that may not be popular, but that I would be proud to add to the body of my work. That's pretty much the litmus test that gets me to say, 'Yeah, I'll direct that one.'\n\nSpielberg plans to direct a new film adaptation of the musical \"West Side Story\". Tony Kushner stated in July 2017 that he is adapting the classic show's book for Spielberg, though the musical score will remain unchanged, as will the late-1950s setting. In January 2018, he began an open casting search for the four lead roles, three of the roles being specifically for Latino actors. On October 2, 2018, it was announced that Ansel Elgort will play the lead role of Tony in the film.\n\nSpielberg also plans to film a fifth installment in the \"Indiana Jones\" series. The untitled film is set to star Harrison Ford and will be produced by Kathleen Kennedy and Frank Marshall. It is being written by David Koepp, who has written numerous other films for Spielberg, including the last \"Indiana Jones\" film. It was originally set for release by Disney on July 19, 2019. It was then announced that filming would begin in the UK in April 2019 and the film was given a new release date of July 10, 2020. Filming was postponed again in June 2018, when Jonathan Kasdan was announced as the film's new writer. Soon after, a new release date of July 9, 2021 was announced.\n\nSpielberg had planned to film his long-planned adaptation of David Kertzer's \"The Kidnapping of Edgardo Mortara\" in early 2017 for release at the end of that year, but production has been postponed. The book follows the true story of a young Jewish boy in 1858 Italy who was secretly baptized by a family servant and then kidnapped from his family by the Papal States, where he was raised and trained as a priest, causing international outrage and becoming a media sensation. It was first announced in 2014, with Kushner adapting the book for the screen. Mark Rylance, in his fourth consecutive collaboration with Spielberg, was announced to star in the role of Pope Pius IX. Oscar Isaac was set to star as Mortara's father, but eventually dropped out. Spielberg had difficulty casting the title role, though he saw more than 2000 kids.\n\nSpielberg is attached to direct an adaptation of American photojournalist Lynsey Addario's memoir \"It's What I Do\". Jennifer Lawrence is attached to star in the lead role.\n\nIn April 2018, it was announced that Spielberg would be directing a film adaptation of the \"Blackhawk\" comic book series. Warner Bros. Pictures is distributing the film, with David Koepp writing the script. During an earlier interview in 1981 for \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\", Spielberg has likened the film to the \"Blackhawk\" series.\n\nIn 2009, Spielberg reportedly tried to obtain the screen rights to make a film based on Microsoft's \"Halo\" series. In September 2008, Steven Spielberg bought film rights for John Wyndham's novel \"Chocky\" and is interested in directing it. He is also interested in making an adaptation of \"A Steady Rain\", \"Pirate Latitudes\", \"The 39 Clues\", and a remake of \"When Worlds Collide\".\n\nIn May 2009, Steven Spielberg bought the rights to the life story of Martin Luther King, Jr. Spielberg will be involved not only as producer but also as a director. However, the purchase was made from the King estate, led by son Dexter, while the two other surviving children, the Reverend Bernice and Martin III, immediately threatened to sue, not having given their approvals to the project.\n\nSince the mid-1980s, Spielberg has increased his role as a film producer. He headed up the production team for several cartoons, including the Warner Bros. hits \"Tiny Toon Adventures\", \"Animaniacs\", \"Pinky and the Brain\", \"Toonsylvania\", and \"Freakazoid!\", for which he collaborated with Jean MacCurdy and Tom Ruegger. Due to his work on these series, in the official titles, most of them say, \"Steven Spielberg presents\" as well as making numerous cameos on the shows. Spielberg also produced the Don Bluth animated features, \"An American Tail\" and \"The Land Before Time\", which were released by Universal Studios. He also served as one of the executive producers of \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\" and its three related shorts (\"Tummy Trouble\", \"Roller Coaster Rabbit\", \"Trail Mix-Up\"), which were all released by Disney, under both the Walt Disney Pictures and the Touchstone Pictures banners. He was furthermore, for a short time, the executive producer of the long-running medical drama \"ER\". In 1989, he brought the concept of \"The Dig\" to LucasArts. He contributed to the project from that time until 1995 when the game was released. He also collaborated with software publishers Knowledge Adventure on the multimedia game \"Steven Spielberg's Director's Chair\", which was released in 1996. Spielberg appears, as himself, in the game to direct the player. The Spielberg name provided branding for a Lego Moviemaker kit, the proceeds of which went to the Starbright Foundation.\n\nIn 1993, Spielberg acted as executive producer for the highly anticipated television series \"seaQuest DSV\"; a science fiction series set \"in the near future\" starring Roy Scheider (who Spielberg had directed in \"Jaws\") and Jonathan Brandis that aired on NBC. While the first season was moderately successful, the second season did less well. Spielberg's name no longer appeared in the third season and the show was cancelled midway through it.\n\nSpielberg served as an uncredited executive producer on \"The Haunting\", \"The Prince of Egypt\", \"Just Like Heaven\", \"Shrek\", \"Road to Perdition\", and \"Evolution\". He served as an executive producer for the 1997 film \"Men in Black\", and its sequels, \"Men in Black II\" and \"Men in Black III\". In 2005, he served as a producer of \"Memoirs of a Geisha\", an adaptation of the novel by Arthur Golden, a film to which he was previously attached as director. In 2006, Spielberg co-executive produced with famed filmmaker Robert Zemeckis a CGI children's film called \"Monster House\", marking their eighth collaboration since 1990's \"Back to the Future Part III\". He also teamed with Clint Eastwood for the first time in their careers, co-producing Eastwood's \"Flags of Our Fathers\" and \"Letters from Iwo Jima\" with Robert Lorenz and Eastwood himself. He earned his twelfth Academy Award nomination for the latter film as it was nominated for Best Picture. Spielberg served as executive producer for \"Disturbia\" and the \"Transformers\" live action film with Brian Goldner, an employee of Hasbro. The film was directed by Michael Bay and written by Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman, and Spielberg continued to collaborate on the sequels, \"\", \"\", \"\", and \"\". In 2011, he produced the J. J. Abrams science fiction thriller film \"Super 8\" for Paramount Pictures.\n\nOther major television series Spielberg produced were \"Band of Brothers\", \"Taken\" and \"The Pacific\". He was an executive producer on the critically acclaimed 2005 TV miniseries \"Into the West\" which won two Emmy awards, including one for Geoff Zanelli's score. For his 2010 miniseries \"The Pacific\" he teamed up once again with co-producer Tom Hanks, with Gary Goetzman also co-producing'. The miniseries is believed to have cost $250 million and is a 10-part war miniseries centered on the battles in the Pacific Theater during World War II. Writer Bruce McKenna, who penned several installments of (\"Band of Brothers\"), was the head writer.\n\nIn 2007, Steven Spielberg and Mark Burnett co-produced \"On the Lot\" a short-lived TV reality show about filmmaking. Despite this, he never gave up working on television. He currently serves as one of the executive producers on \"United States of Tara\", a show created by Academy Award winner Diablo Cody which they developed together (Spielberg is uncredited as creator).\n\nIn 2011, Spielberg launched \"Falling Skies\", a science fiction television series, on the TNT network. He developed the series with Robert Rodat and is credited as an executive producer. Spielberg is also producing the Fox TV series \"Terra Nova\". \"Terra Nova\" begins in the year 2149 when all life on the planet Earth is threatened with extinction resulting in scientists opening a door that allows people to travel back 85 million years to prehistoric times. Spielberg also produced \"The River\", \"Smash\", \"Under the Dome\", \"Extant\", \"The Whispers\", a TV adaptation of \"Minority Report\", and \"Bull\".\n\nIn 2008, Spielberg and DreamWorks acquired the rights to produce a live-action film adaptation of the original \"Ghost in the Shell\" manga. Avi Arad and Steven Paul produced, Rupert Sanders directed, and Scarlett Johansson stars in the lead role of the film, which was released in 2017.\n\nIn March 2013, Spielberg announced that he was \"developing a Stanley Kubrick screenplay for a miniseries, not for a motion picture, about the life of Napoleon.\" In May 2016, it was announced that Cary Fukunaga is in talks to direct the miniseries for HBO, from a script by David Lenland based on extensive research materials accumulated by Kubrick over many years.\n\nSpielberg had planned to shoot a $200 million adaptation of Daniel H. Wilson's novel \"Robopocalypse\", adapted for the screen by Drew Goddard. The novel follows a global human war against a robot uprising about 15–20 years in the future. Like \"Lincoln\", it was to be released by Disney in the United States and Fox overseas. It was set for release on April 25, 2014, with Anne Hathaway and Chris Hemsworth set to star, but Spielberg postponed production indefinitely in January 2013, just before it was to begin. In March 2018, it was announced that the film will now be directed by Michael Bay.\n\nSpielberg will executive produce \"Cortes\", a historical mini-series written by Steven Zaillian about the Spanish conquest of the Aztec empire, and Hernán Cortés's relationship with Aztec ruler Montezuma. The script is based on an earlier one from 1965 by Oscar-winner Dalton Trumbo. Javier Bardem will play the lead role of explorer Hernán Cortés. Spielberg was previously attached to direct the project as a feature film.\n\nSpielberg had cameo roles in \"The Blues Brothers\", \"Gremlins\", \"Vanilla Sky\", and \"Austin Powers in Goldmember\", as well as small uncredited cameos in a handful of other films, such as a life-station worker in \"Jaws\". He also made numerous cameo roles in the Warner Bros. cartoons he produced, such as Animaniacs, and even made reference to some of his films. Spielberg voiced himself in the film \"Paul\", and in one episode of \"Tiny Toon Adventures\" titled \"Buster and Babs Go Hawaiian\".\n\nIn 2017, Spielberg, along with fellow directors Francis Ford Coppola, Guillermo del Toro, Paul Greengrass and Lawrence Kasdan were featured in the Netflix documentary series \"Five Came Back\", which discussed the contributions of film directors Frank Capra, John Ford, John Huston, George Stevens and William Wyler towards recording the events of World War II. Spielberg also served as an executive producer on the series.\n\nApart from being an ardent gamer Spielberg has had a long history of involvement in video games. He has been giving thanks to his games of his division DreamWorks Interactive as \"Someone's in the Kitchen\" with script written by Animaniacs' Paul Rugg, \"Goosebumps: Escape from HorrorLand\", \"The Neverhood\" (all in 1996), \"Skullmonkeys\", \"Dilbert's Desktop Games\", \"\" (all 1997), \"Boombots\" (1999), \"\" (1999), and \"Clive Barker's Undying\" (2001). In 2005 the director signed with Electronic Arts to collaborate on three games including an action game and an award-winning puzzle game for the Wii called \"Boom Blox\" (and its 2009 sequel: \"Boom Blox Bash Party\"). Previously, he was involved in creating the scenario for the adventure game \"The Dig\". In 1996, Spielberg worked on and shot original footage for a movie-making simulation game called \"Steven Spielberg's Director's Chair\". He is the creator of the \"Medal of Honor\" series by Electronic Arts. He is credited in the special thanks section of the 1998 video game \"\". In 2013, Spielberg has announced he is collaborating with 343 Industries for a live-action TV show of \"Halo\".\n\nSpielberg's films often deal with several recurring themes. Most of his films deal with ordinary characters searching for or coming in contact with extraordinary beings or finding themselves in extraordinary circumstances. In an AFI interview in August 2000 Spielberg commented on his interest in the possibility of extraterrestrial life and how it has influenced some of his films. Spielberg described himself as feeling like an alien during childhood, and his interest came from his father, a science fiction fan, and his opinion that aliens would not travel light years for conquest, but instead curiosity and sharing of knowledge.\n\nA strong consistent theme in his family-friendly work is a childlike sense of wonder and faith, as attested by works such as \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\", \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\", \"Hook\", \"A.I. Artificial Intelligence\" and \"The BFG\". According to Warren Buckland, these themes are portrayed through the use of low height camera tracking shots, which have become one of Spielberg's directing trademarks. In the cases when his films include children (\"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\", \"Empire of the Sun\", \"Jurassic Park\", etc.), this type of shot is more apparent, but it is also used in films like \"Munich\", \"Saving Private Ryan\", \"The Terminal\", \"Minority Report\", and \"Amistad\". Each of his films feature this shot utilized by the director, and the water scenes in \"Jaws\" are filmed from the low-angle perspective of someone swimming. Another child oriented theme in Spielberg's films is that of loss of innocence and coming-of-age. In \"Empire of the Sun\", Jim, a well-groomed and spoiled English youth, loses his innocence as he suffers through World War II China. Similarly, in \"Catch Me If You Can\", Frank naively and foolishly believes that he can reclaim his shattered family if he accumulates enough money to support them.\n\nThe most persistent theme throughout his films is tension in parent-child relationships. Parents (often fathers) are reluctant, absent or ignorant. Peter Banning in \"Hook\" starts off in the beginning of the film as a reluctant married-to-his-work parent who through the course of the film regains the respect of his children. The absence of Elliott's father in \"E.T.\" is the most famous example of this theme. In \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\", it is revealed that Indy has always had a very strained relationship with his father, who is a professor of medieval literature, as his father always seemed more interested in his work, specifically in his studies of the Holy Grail, than in his own son, although his father does not seem to realize or understand the negative effect that his aloof nature had on Indy (he even believes he was a good father in the sense that he taught his son \"self reliance,\" which is not how Indy saw it). Even Oskar Schindler, from \"Schindler's List\", is reluctant to have a child with his wife. In \"The Color Purple\", the main character, Celie, has been impregnated by her father multiple times. \"Munich\" depicts Avner as a man away from his wife and newborn daughter. There are exceptions; Brody in \"Jaws\" is a committed family man, while John Anderton in \"Minority Report\" is a shattered man after the disappearance of his son. This theme is arguably the most autobiographical aspect of Spielberg's films, since Spielberg himself was affected by his parents' divorce as a child and by the absence of his father. Furthermore, to this theme, protagonists in his films often come from families with divorced parents, including \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" (protagonist Elliot's mother is divorced) and \"Catch Me If You Can\" (Frank Abagnale's mother and father split early on in the film). Little known also is Tim in \"Jurassic Park\" (early in the film, another secondary character mentions Tim and Lex's parents' divorce). The family often shown divided is often resolved in the ending as well. Following this theme of reluctant fathers and father figures, Tim looks to Dr. Alan Grant as a father figure. Initially, Dr. Grant is reluctant to return those paternal feelings to Tim. However, by the end of the film, he has changed, and the kids even fall asleep with their heads on his shoulders.\n\nMost of his films are generally optimistic in nature. Though some critics accuse his films of being a little overly sentimental, Spielberg feels it is fine as long as it is disguised. He is still a highly praised director as well as being credited as one of the most influential directors of all time. The influence comes from directors Frank Capra and John Ford.\n\nSpielberg first met actress Amy Irving in 1976 at the suggestion of director Brian De Palma, who knew he was looking for an actress to play in \"Close Encounters\". After meeting her, Spielberg told his co-producer Julia Phillips, \"I met a real heartbreaker last night.\" Although she was too young for the role, she and Spielberg began dating and she eventually moved into what she described as his \"bachelor funky\" house. They lived together for four years, but the stresses of their professional careers took a toll on their relationship. Irving wanted to be certain that whatever success she attained as an actress would be her own: \"I don't want to be known as Steven's girlfriend,\" she said, and chose not to be in any of his films during those years.\n\nAs a result, they broke up in 1979, but remained close friends. Then in 1984 they renewed their romance, and in November 1985, they married, already having had a son, Max Samuel. After three and a half years of marriage, however, many of the same competing stresses of their careers caused them to divorce in 1989. They agreed to maintain homes near each other as to facilitate the shared custody and parenting of their son. Their divorce was recorded as the third most costly celebrity divorce in history.\n\nSpielberg subsequently developed a relationship with actress Kate Capshaw, whom he met when he cast her in \"Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom\". They married on October 12, 1991. Capshaw is a convert to Judaism. They currently move among their four homes in Pacific Palisades, California; Quelle Farm, Georgica Pond in East Hampton, New York; New York City; and Naples, Florida.\n\nThere are seven children in the Spielberg-Capshaw family:\n\nSpielberg grew up in a Jewish household, including having a bar mitzvah ceremony in Phoenix when he turned 13. He grew away from Judaism after his family moved to various cities during his high school years, where they became the only Jews in the neighborhood. Before those years, his family was involved in the synagogue and had many Jewish friends and nearby relatives.\n\nHe remembers his grandparents telling him about their life in Russia, where they were subjected to religious persecution, causing them to eventually flee to the United States. He was made aware of the Holocaust by his parents, who he says \"talked about it all the time, and so it was always on my mind.\" His father had lost between sixteen and twenty relatives during the Holocaust.\n\nSpielberg \"rediscovered the honor of being a Jew,\" he says, before he made \"Schindler's List\", when he married Kate Capshaw. Until then, having become a filmmaker, he only felt his connection to Judaism when he visited his parents. He says he made the film partly to create \"something that would confirm my Judaism to my family and myself.\"\n\nHe credits her with fueling his family's current level of observance and for keeping the \"momentum flowing\" in their lives, as they now observe Jewish holidays, light candles on Friday nights, and give their children Bar and Bat Mitzvahs. \"This shiksa goddess has made me a better Jew than my own parents.\"\n\nProducing \"Schindler's List\" in 1993 also renewed his faith, Spielberg says, but \"it really was the fact that my wife took a profound interest in Judaism.\" He waited ten years after being given the story in 1982 to make the film, as he did not yet feel \"mature\" enough. He first wanted to have a family, \"to figure out what my place was in the world... . When my first son, [Max] was born, it greatly affected me... . A spirit began to ignite in me, and I became a Jewish dad...\"\n\nHe said that making the film became a \"natural experience\" for him, adding, \"I \"had\" to tell the story. I've lived on its outer edges.\" The film, writes biographer Joseph McBride, thereby became the \"culmination\" of Spielberg's long personal struggle with his Jewish identity. Some claim the film has made Spielberg \"the one true heir to the great Jewish moguls who created Hollywood,\" most of whom had actively avoided depicting Jews or the Holocaust in their films.\n\n\"Forbes\" magazine places Spielberg's personal net worth at $3.7 billion.\n\nIn 2013, Spielberg purchased the mega-yacht \"Seven Seas\" for US$182 million. He has since put it up for sale and in the meantime has made it available for charter. At US$1.2 million per month, it is one of the most expensive charters on the market. He has ordered a new yacht costing a reported US$250 million.\n\nIn 2002, Spielberg was one of eight flagbearers who carried the Olympic Flag into Rice-Eccles Stadium at the Opening Ceremonies of the 2002 Winter Olympic Games in Salt Lake City. In 2006, \"Premiere\" listed him as the most powerful and influential figure in the motion picture industry. \"Time\" listed him as one of the . At the end of the 20th century, \"Life\" named him the most influential person of his generation. In 2009, Boston University presented him an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\" Most Influential Celebrities 2014 list, Spielberg was listed as the most influential celebrity in America. The annual list is conducted by E-Poll Market Research and it gave more than 6,600 celebrities on 46 different personality attributes a score representing \"how that person is perceived as influencing the public, their peers, or both.\" Spielberg received a score of 47, meaning 47% of the US believes he is influential. Gerry Philpott, president of E-Poll Market Research, supported Spielberg's score by stating, \"If anyone doubts that Steven Spielberg has greatly influenced the public, think about how many will think for a second before going into the water this summer.\"\n\nSpielberg usually supports U.S. Democratic Party candidates. He has donated over $800,000 to the Democratic party and its nominees. He has been a close friend of former President Bill Clinton and worked with the President for the USA Millennium celebrations. He directed an 18-minute film for the project, scored by John Williams and entitled \"The American Journey\". It was shown at America's Millennium Gala on December 31, 1999, in the National Mall at the Reflecting Pool at the base of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C.\n\nSpielberg supported Hillary Clinton for President of the United States in the 2016 election. He donated US$1 million to Priorities USA, a pro-Clinton Super PAC.\n\nIn 2018, Spielberg and his wife Kate Capshaw donated $500,000 to the March for Our Lives student demonstration in favor of gun control in the United States.\n\nA collector of film memorabilia, Spielberg purchased a balsa Rosebud sled from \"Citizen Kane\" (1941) in 1982. He bought Orson Welles's own directorial copy of the script for the radio broadcast \"The War of the Worlds\" (1938) in 1994. Spielberg has purchased Academy Award statuettes being sold on the open market and donated them to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, to prevent their further commercial exploitation. His donations include the Oscars that Bette Davis received for \"Dangerous\" (1935) and \"Jezebel\" (1938), and Clark Gable's Oscar for \"It Happened One Night\" (1934).\n\nSpielberg is a major collector of the work of American illustrator and painter Norman Rockwell. A collection of 57 Rockwell paintings and drawings owned by Spielberg and fellow Rockwell collector and film director George Lucas were displayed at the Smithsonian American Art Museum July 2, 2010 – January 2, 2011, in an exhibition titled \"Telling Stories\".\n\nSpielberg is an avid film buff and, when not shooting a picture, he will watch many films in a single weekend. He sees almost every major summer blockbuster in theaters if not preoccupied and enjoys most of them.\n\nSince playing \"Pong\" while filming \"Jaws\" in 1974, Spielberg has been an avid video gamer. Spielberg played many of LucasArts adventure games, including the first \"Monkey Island\" games. He owns a Wii, a PlayStation 3, a PSP, and an Xbox 360, and enjoys playing first-person shooters such as the \"Medal of Honor\" series and \"\". He has also criticized the use of cutscenes in games, calling them intrusive, and feels making story flow naturally into the gameplay is a challenge for future game developers.\n\nIn 2001, Spielberg was stalked by conspiracy theorist and former social worker Diana Napolis. She accused him, along with actress Jennifer Love Hewitt, of controlling her thoughts through \"cybertronic\" technology and being part of a satanic conspiracy against her. Napolis was committed to a mental institution before pleading guilty to stalking, and released on probation with a condition that she have no contact with either Spielberg or Hewitt.\n\nJonathan Norman was arrested after making two attempts to enter Spielberg's Pacific Palisades home in June and July 1997. Norman was jailed for 25 years in California. Spielberg told the court: \"Had Jonathan Norman actually confronted me, I genuinely, in my heart of hearts, believe that I would have been raped or maimed or killed.\"\n\nSpielberg has won three Academy Awards. He has been nominated for seven Academy Awards for the category of Best Director, winning two of them (\"Schindler's List\" and \"Saving Private Ryan\"), and ten of the films he directed were up for the Best Picture Oscar (\"Schindler's List\" won). In 1987, he was awarded the Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award for his work as a creative producer.\n\nDrawing from his own experiences in Scouting, Spielberg helped the Boy Scouts of America develop a merit badge in cinematography in order to help promote filmmaking as a marketable skill. The badge was launched at the 1989 National Scout Jamboree, which Spielberg attended, and where he personally counseled many boys in their work on requirements.\nThat same year, 1989, saw the release of \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\". The opening scene shows a teenage Indiana Jones in scout uniform bearing the rank of a Life Scout. Spielberg stated he made Indiana Jones a Boy Scout in honor of his experience in Scouting. For his career accomplishments, service to others, and dedication to a new merit badge Spielberg was awarded the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award.\n\nSteven Spielberg received the AFI Life Achievement Award in 1995.\n\nIn 1998, he was awarded the Federal Cross of Merit with Ribbon of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Award was presented to him by President Roman Herzog in recognition of his film \"Schindler's List\" and his Shoa-Foundation.\n\nIn 1999, Spielberg received an honorary degree from Brown University. Spielberg was also awarded the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service by Secretary of Defense William Cohen at the Pentagon on August 11, 1999; Cohen presented the award in recognition of Spielberg's film \"Saving Private Ryan\".\n\nIn 2001, he was appointed as an honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) by Queen Elizabeth II for services to the entertainment industry of the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 2004, he was admitted as knight of the Légion d'honneur by president Jacques Chirac. On July 15, 2006, Spielberg was also awarded the at the Summer Gala of the Chicago International Film Festival, and also was awarded a Kennedy Center honour on December 3. The tribute to Spielberg featured a short, filmed biography narrated by Liam Neeson and included thank-yous from World War II veterans for \"Saving Private Ryan\", as well as a performance of the finale to Leonard Bernstein's \"Candide\", conducted by John Williams (Spielberg's frequent composer).\n\nThe Science Fiction Hall of Fame inducted Spielberg in 2005, the first year it considered non-literary contributors. In November 2007, he was chosen for a Lifetime Achievement Award to be presented at the sixth annual Visual Effects Society Awards in February 2009. He was set to be honored with the Cecil B. DeMille Award at the January 2008 Golden Globes; however, due to the new, watered-down format of the ceremony resulting from conflicts in the 2007–08 writers strike, the HFPA postponed his honor to the 2009 ceremony. In 2008, Spielberg was awarded the Légion d'honneur.\n\nIn June 2008, Spielberg received Arizona State University's Hugh Downs Award for Communication Excellence.\n\nSpielberg received an honorary degree at Boston University's 136th Annual Commencement on May 17, 2009. In October 2009 Steven Spielberg received the Philadelphia Liberty Medal; presenting him with the medal was former US president and Liberty Medal recipient Bill Clinton. Special guests included Whoopi Goldberg, Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell and Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter.\n\nOn October 22, 2011 he was admitted as a Commander of the Belgian Order of the Crown. He was given the badge on a red neck ribbon by the Belgian Federal Minister of Finance Didier Reynders. The Commander is the third highest rank of the Order of the Crown. He was the president of the jury for the 2013 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nOn November 19, 2013, Spielberg was honored by the National Archives and Records Administration with its Records of Achievement Award. Spielberg was given two facsimiles of the 13th Amendment to the United States Constitution, one passed but not ratified in 1861, as well as a facsimile of the actual 1865 amendment signed into law by President Abraham Lincoln. The amendment and the process of passing it were the subject of his film \"Lincoln\".\n\nIn November 24, 2015, Spielberg was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Barack Obama in a ceremony at the White House.\n\nOn May 26, 2016, Spielberg was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Arts by Harvard University.\n\nIn July 2016, Spielberg was awarded a gold Blue Peter badge on the BBC children's television programme \"Blue Peter\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23592491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23592491", "title": "Theory and Practice", "text": "Theory and Practice\n\nTheory and Practice () is a peer-reviewed academic journal specializing in music theory and analysis. It is the annual journal of the Music Theory Society of New York State, which was \"[t]he first regional theory organization\" in the United States, having \"held its initial meeting in 1971 at the Eastman School of Music.\" The journal began publication in 1975, initially with the subtitle \"Newsletter-Journal of the Music Theory Society of New York State\".\n\nThe journal is currently edited by Sarah Marlowe and Brian Moseley. Recent past editors include Matthew Brown, (2012–2015), Seth Monahan and Matt BaileyShea (2009–2011), Adrian Childs (2007-2008), Philip Stoecker (2005–07), David Carson Berry (2003–04), Mark Anson-Cartwright (1999-2002), and Taylor A. Greer (1997–99).\n\n"}
{"id": "26425913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26425913", "title": "Union of Russian Workers", "text": "Union of Russian Workers\n\nThe Union of Russian Workers in the United States and Canada, commonly known as the \"Union of Russian Workers\" (Союз Русских Рабочих, \"Soiuz Russkikh Rabochikh)\" was an anarchist political association of Russian emigrants in the United States. The group was established shortly after the failure of the Russian Revolution of 1905 and was essentially annihilated in America by the 1919 Red Scare in which it was targeted by the Bureau of Investigation of the U.S. Department of Justice. Thousands of the group's adherents were arrested and hundreds deported in 1919 and 1920; still more voluntarily returned to Soviet Russia. During its brief existence the organization, which was only loosely affiliated with the Industrial Workers of the World, published numerous books and pamphlets in the Russian language by anarchist writers, operated reading rooms and conducted courses to teach newly arrived Russians the English language, and fulfilled a social function for emigrants half a world from home.\n\nThe Union of Russian Workers (URW) was established in New York City in 1908 by refugees from the defeated Russian Revolution of 1905. While some have estimated that by the end of the 1910s the Union of Russian Workers achieved a membership of about 10,000, a more sanguine estimate is that the group's membership topped out at about half that number.\nThe URW's declaration of principles called for the unification of Russian workers in the United States and Canada so that they might do battle against capitalism and the forces of authority. The group further declared itself in favor of supporting the struggles of non-Russian workers in America and the struggle for liberation from Tsarism in Russia as well. Although in its initial phase the organization promoted the philosophy of communist anarchism, over time the ideology of the group evolved until in 1912 it declared itself for anarcho-syndicalism.\n\nIn large measure through the efforts of Bill Shatoff, a Russian-born anarcho-syndicalist who worked for a time on the staff of the URW's newspaper, \"Golos Truda\" (The Voice of Labor), the URW developed close ties with the Industrial Workers of the World.\n\nIn addition to publishing books and pamphlets on anarchist and syndicalist themes, the Union of Russian workers additionally provided and educational and social function, maintaining reading libraries, conducting classes to teach the English language to newcomers from Russia, and providing a setting for socialization of Russian speaking emigrants with their fellows.\n\nPolitical turmoil swept Europe in the years after World War I. The Bolshevik government of Soviet Russia showed every sign of beating the odds and retaining power. Additional communist uprisings dotted the map, including serious efforts in Finland, Hungary, and Germany. In America, the Left Wing of the Socialist Party of America began to organize itself, proclaiming the need for revolutionary socialism in the United States. Politicians, press, and citizens on the street alike began to feel concerned about the potential for armed insurrection in America itself.\n\nThe Union of Russian Workers, small and isolated though it may have been, was seen by some as a source of the revolutionary contagion. On March 12, 1919, police raided headquarters of the organization, located on the Lower East Side and arrested 162 people. Although at the time of the raid Detective Sergeant James Gegan of the New York City police department's \"Bomb Squad\" labeled the group \"a front for alien subversive activity,\" results of the operation were ultimately rather less definitive, as only four of those arrested were ultimately charged with \"criminal anarchy.\"\n\nFear still lingered. On June 8, 1919, the influential \"New York Times\" shrieked in an article spanning four columns that \"500 Russian Reds\" of the Union of Russian Workers were \"agents spreading Bolshevism in the United States.\" Citing the constitution of the URW at length, the article breathlessly declared\n\"An organization directly connected with Russia is at work in the United States with an underground propaganda for overthrow of the Government by force. * * * \n\"Traces of the activity of the organization have been found from New York to San Francisco... The agitation has been chiefly among the Slav races, but Scandinavians and the representatives of other European races in this country have been subjects of the underground campaign. The main instrument of the propaganda is literature which calls for the overturn of government by violence, asserting that there is no moral wrong in accomplishing revolution by bloodshed. \n\"The literature is distributed at meetings and handed individually at other places to those whom it is thought are ready to give hearing to the measures advocated... From the traces of their activity it is estimated that there are not less than 500 propagandists of the Russian Workers' Union in this country.\"\n\nWith public opinion thus prepared, Federal authorities headed by Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer in an operation conducted by his \"special assistant,\" J. Edgar Hoover, launched a coordinated campaign in over 30 cities across America on the night of November 7/8, 1919 — the second anniversary of the Bolshevik revolution. At 8:45 in the evening of November 7, 1919, dozens of plainclothes and uniformed members of the New York Police Department together with Federal law enforcement authorities swept down on the \"People's House\" located at 133 East 15th Street, headquarters of the Union of Russian Workers, in what one reporter characterized as \"one of the most brutal raids ever witnessed in the city.\" A report in the socialist \"New York Call\" melodramatically recounted the violence of the scene:\n\n\"A witness of the event said that he saw one of the Russians trying to rush out of the building, his face and clothing covered with blood. Agonized cries were heard. \n\"One who was close to the scene while the raiders were covering themselves with the blood of men and women against whom no crime had been charged heard heavy thuds as of clubs descending on human flesh. \n\"All who attempted to escape were driven back into the building, and none but officers were permitted to enter. Two \"Call\" reporters who attempted to gather the facts of the assault were threatened with arrest if they did not leave at once. One policeman on the stoop of the building shouted to the crowd that had collected outside: 'If there’s a soldier among you, get after them!' * * * \n\"They were beaten, not only with clubs, but with blackjacks. After the police and other guardians of law had their fill of clubbing and blackjacking, they crowded the Russians together in the back of the hall and cross-examined them. Then they bandaged the heads of those who had suffered more than others, but even the bandages were heavily bloodstained. Meanwhile, patrol wagons which had been stationed in the neighborhood came clanging up and were filled as fast as they appeared with the Russians who had been beaten up. Most of them had their heads bandaged. \n\"They were thrown down steps of the stoop without ceremony. One of them moaned loudly and the crowd outside mimicked him. The crowd was not permitted to approach too closely and a \"Call\" reporter was unable to see what marks had been made by the clubs of the police on the faces of the assaulted men and women.\"\n\nAfter taking nearly 100 of those present to police headquarters for questioning, 50 men and 2 women were held for possible deportation as \"undesirable aliens.\"\n\nAccording to the report of the head of the Bureau of Immigration, Anthony Caminetti, a total of 351 aliens \"of anarchist and kindred classes\" were deported from the United States from July 1, 1918 to June 30, 1920. Of these political deportations, the vast majority were made at one time aboard the \"USAT Buford,\" which departed from New York harbor on December 21, 1919, carrying 249 involuntary passengers. Chief among these were members of the Union of Russian Workers arrested in the series of raids conducted in the fall of 1919.\n\n\nThe URW issued a newspaper called \"Golos Truda\" [Voice of Labor] in New York City beginning in 1911. Following the Russian Revolution of 1917, the editors returned home together to begin publishing the paper there. A new official Union of Russian Workers newspaper was launched in New York on February 26, 1919, \"Khleb i volia\" [Bread and Freedom], edited by G.V. Karpuk. According to documents seized by the Lusk Committee, the paid circulation of the latter publication was 4,547 in 1919.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33892238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33892238", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1815", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1815\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 1815 was unanimously adopted on 2 June 2008.\n\nThe Security Council today extended the mandate of the International Independent Investigation Commission, which is investigating the 2005 murder of Lebanon’s former Prime Minister, Rafiq Hariri, and other attacks, until 31 December 2008.\n\nUnanimously adopting resolution 1815 (2008), the Council left open the possibility of terminating the mandate earlier, if the Commission reported that it had completed implementation of that mandate.\n\nThe International Independent Investigation Commission was established on 7 April 2005 by resolution 1595 (see Press Release SC/8353), with the Lebanese Government’s approval, in order to investigate in all its aspects the terrorist attack that killed Mr. Hariri and others and caused the injury of numerous people, including helping to identify its perpetrators, sponsors, organizers and accomplices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8049137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8049137", "title": "Welbeck Street", "text": "Welbeck Street\n\nWelbeck Street is a street in the West End, central London. It has historically been associated with the medical profession.\n\nThe street runs approximately north-south between New Cavendish Street at the northern end, crossing Wigmore Street near Wigmore Hall just to the east, becoming Vere Street continuing southwards. The nearest tube station is Bond Street to the south. The part south of Wigmore Street is part of the B406.\n\nThe London Welbeck Hospital, is located at 27 Welbeck Street, and the Welbeck Street Hospital for Diseases of the Nervous System was located on this street as well; the offices of the British Institute of Radiology were formerly located there. The Welbeck Clinic is located at No. 20.\n\nThere is a Greek Orthodox Chapel in Welbeck Street that dates back as far as the early 19th century when the building formed part of the Russian embassy. The chapel was rebuilt in 1864 and features a particularly fine iconostasis. The chapel is located behind No. 30, on the east side of the street near the northern end, and can be seen from Marylebone Mews (it is visible on Edward Stanford's 1862 map of London).\n\nThe notorious 18th-century highwayman James MacLaine was once a grocer on Welbeck Street.\n\nIn 1799, Thomas Young established himself as a physician in this street at No 48, now recorded by a blue plaque. The street was favoured by doctors at the time and remains a leading medical location. It is close to Harley Street, now more famed for its concentration of private medical practitioners.\n\nGeneral John Egerton, 7th Earl of Bridgewater (b. 14 Apr 1753, d. 21 Oct 1823) married Charlotte Catherine Anne Haynes, daughter of Samuel Haynes and Elizabeth, on 14 January 1783 at 58 Welbeck Street.\n\nThe following streets in Westminster are also associated with medicine:\n\n"}
{"id": "11296130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11296130", "title": "Wittgenstein (film)", "text": "Wittgenstein (film)\n\nWittgenstein is a 1993 film by the English director Derek Jarman. It is loosely based on the life story as well as the philosophical thinking of the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein. The adult Wittgenstein is played by Karl Johnson. Tilda Swinton portrayed the Wittgenstein’s rather camp aristocratic mistress.\n\nThe original screenplay was by the literary critic Terry Eagleton. Jarman heavily rewrote the script during pre-production and shooting, radically altering the style and structure, although retaining much of Eagleton's dialogue. The story is not played out in a traditional setting, but rather against a black backdrop within which the actors and key props are placed, as if in a theatre setting.\n\nThe film was originally part of a series of 12 films on the life and ideas of the philosopher, produced by Tariq Ali on behalf of Channel Four. Only four scripts got commissioned, \"Socrates\" by Howard Brenton, \"Spinoza\" by Tariq Ali, \"Locke\" by David Edgar and \"Wittenstein\" by Terry Eagleton. Spinoza was filmed and directed by Chris Spencer as \"Spinoza : The Apostle of Reason\". Also \"Citizen Locke\" was filmed and directed by Agnieszka Piotrowska. They were transmitted in 1994 as 52 min long television films.\n\n\n\n\nCritical reception for the film has been generally positive and the movie holds a rating of 83% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 6 reviews and an audience score of 76% from 617 views. Derek Elley of Variety (magazine) in 1993, stated it was a \"immaculately lensed, intellectual joke\" with \"gay subtext\".\n\n\n"}
