{"id": "53241966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53241966", "title": "2020 European Women's Handball Championship", "text": "2020 European Women's Handball Championship\n\nThe 2020 European Women's Handball Championship will be held in Denmark and Norway in 2020. The games will be played in Herning, Denmark and Stavanger, Trondheim and Oslo, Norway. The preliminary rounds will be played in Herning and Trondheim, the main round in Herning and Stavanger and the finals in Oslo.\n"}
{"id": "13292403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13292403", "title": "A Disappearing Number", "text": "A Disappearing Number\n\nA Disappearing Number is a 2007 play co-written and devised by the Théâtre de Complicité company and directed and conceived by English playwright Simon McBurney. It was inspired by the collaboration during the 1910s between two of the most remarkable pure mathematicians of the twentieth century, Srinivasa Ramanujan from India, and the Cambridge University don G.H. Hardy.\n\nIt was a co-production between the UK-based theatre company Complicite and Theatre Royal, Plymouth, and Ruhrfestspiele, Wiener Festwochen, and the Holland Festival. \"A Disappearing Number\" premiered in Plymouth in March 2007, toured internationally, and played at The Barbican Centre in Autumn 2007 and 2008 and at Lincoln Center in July 2010. It was directed by Simon McBurney with music by Nitin Sawhney. The production is 110 minutes with no intermission.\n\nThe piece was co-devised and written by the cast and company. The cast in order of appearance: Firdous Bamji, Saskia Reeves, David Annen, Paul Bhattacharjee, Shane Shambu, Divya Kasturi and Chetna Pandya.\n\nRamanujan first attracted Hardy's attention by writing him a letter in which he proved that\n\nwhere the notation formula_2 indicates a Ramanujan summation.\n\nHardy realised that this confusing presentation of the series 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + ⋯ was an application of the Riemann zeta function formula_3 with formula_4. Ramanujan's work became the foundation of string theory.\n\nThe play includes live \"tabla\" playing, which \"morphs seductively into pure mathematics\", as the \"Financial Times\" review put it, \"especially when … its rhythms shade into chants of number sequences reminiscent of the libretto to Philip Glass's \"Einstein on the Beach\". One can hear the beauty of the sequences without grasping the rules that govern them.\"\n\nThe play has two strands of narrative and presents strong visual and physical theatre. It interweaves the passionate intellectual relationship between Hardy and the more intuitive Ramanujan, with the present-day story of Ruth, an English maths lecturer, and her husband, a globe-trotting Indian-American businessman \"to illuminate the beauty and the patterns — the mystery — of mathematics.\" It also explores the nature and spirituality of infinity, and explores several aspects of the Indian diaspora.\n\nRuth travels to India in Ramanujan's footsteps and eventually dies. Al follows, to get closer to her ghost. Meanwhile, 100 years previously, Ramanujan is travelling in the opposite direction, making the trip to England, where he works with Hardy on maths and contracts tuberculosis. Partition (as a maths concept) is explored, and diverging and converging series in mathematics become a metaphor for the Indian diaspora.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2547", "title": "Agent Orange", "text": "Agent Orange\n\nAgent Orange is an herbicide and defoliant chemical, one of the \"tactical use\" Rainbow Herbicides. It is widely known for its use by the U.S. military as part of its herbicidal warfare program, Operation Ranch Hand, during the Vietnam War from 1961 to 1971. It is a mixture of equal parts of two herbicides, 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D. In addition to its damaging environmental effects, traces of dioxin (mainly TCDD, the most toxic of its type) found in the mixture have caused major health problems for many individuals who were exposed.\n\nUp to four million people in Vietnam were exposed to the defoliant. The government of Vietnam says as many as 3 million people have suffered illnesses because of Agent Orange. The Red Cross of Vietnam estimates that up to 1 million people are disabled or have health problems as a result of Agent Orange contamination. The United States government has challenged these figures as being unreliable. The chemical is capable of damaging genes, resulting in deformities among the offspring of exposed victims. The U.S. government has documented higher cases of leukemia, Hodgkin's lymphoma, and various kinds of cancer in exposed veterans. Agent Orange also caused enormous environmental damage in Vietnam. Over 3,100,000 hectares (31,000 km or 11,969 mi) of forest were defoliated. Defoliants eroded tree cover and seedling forest stock, making reforestation difficult in numerous areas. Animal species diversity sharply reduced in contrast with unsprayed areas.\n\nThe aftermath of the use of Agent Orange in Vietnam resulted in massive legal consequences. The United Nations ratified United Nations General Assembly Resolution 31/72 and the Environmental Modification Convention. Lawsuits filed on behalf of both US and Vietnamese veterans sought compensation for damages.\n\nAgent Orange was to a lesser extent used outside Vietnam. Land in neighbouring Laos and Cambodia was also sprayed with Agent Orange during the Vietnam War because forests on the border with Vietnam were used by the Vietcong. Some countries, such as Canada, saw testing, while other countries, such as Brazil, used the herbicide to clear out sections of land for agriculture.\n\nThe active ingredient of Agent Orange was an equal mixture of two phenoxy herbicides – 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T) – in iso-octyl ester form, which contained traces of the dioxin 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-\"p\"-dioxin (TCDD).\n\nTCDD was a trace (typically 2-3 ppm, but ranging from 50 ppb to 50 ppm), but significant contaminant of Agent Orange. TCDD is the most toxic of the dioxins, and is classified as a human carcinogen by the US Environmental Protection Agency.\n\nIf not bound chemically to a biological surface such as soil, leaves or grass, Agent Orange dries quickly after spraying and breaks down within hours to days when exposed to sunlight and is no longer harmful.\n\nDue to its fat-soluble nature, TCDD enters the body through physical contact or ingestion. Dioxin easily accumulates in the food chain. Dioxin enters the body by attaching to a protein called the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a transcription factor. When TCDD binds to AhR, the protein moves to the nucleus, where it influences gene expression.\n\nSeveral herbicides were discovered as part of efforts by the USA and the British to develop herbicidal weapons for use during World War II. These included 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid), 2,4,5-T (coded LN-14, and also known as trioxone), MCPA (2-methyl-4-chlorophenoxyacetic acid, 1414B and 1414A, recoded LN-8 and LN-32), and isopropyl phenylcarbamate (1313, recoded LN-33).\n\nIn 1943, the U.S. Department of the Army contracted the botanist and bioethicist Arthur Galston, who discovered the defoliants later used in Agent Orange, and his employer University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana to study the effects of 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T on cereal grains (including rice) and broadleaf crops. Galston, then a graduate student at the University of Illinois, in his research and 1943 Ph.D. dissertation focused on finding a chemical means to make soybeans flower and fruit earlier. He discovered both that 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA) would speed up the flowering of soybeans and that in higher concentrations it would defoliate the soybeans. From these studies arose the concept of using aerial applications of herbicides to destroy enemy crops to disrupt their food supply. In early 1945, the U.S. Army ran tests of various 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T mixtures at the Bushnell Army Airfield in Florida. As a result, the U.S. began a full-scale production of 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T and would have used it against Japan in 1946 during Operation Downfall if the war had continued.\n\nBy the end of the war, the relationship between the two countries was well established. In the years after the war, the U.S. tested 1,100 compounds, and field trials of the more promising ones were done at British stations in India and Australia, in order to establish their effects in tropical conditions, as well as at the U.S.'s testing ground in Florida.\n\nBetween 1950 and 1952, trials were conducted in Tanganyika, at Kikore and Stunyansa, to test arboricides and defoliants under tropical conditions. The chemicals involved were 2,4-D, 2,4,5-T, and endothall (3,6-endoxohexahydrophthalic acid). During 1952–53, the unit supervised the aerial spraying of 2,4,5-T over the Waturi peninsula in Kenya to assess the value of defoliants in the eradication of tsetse fly.\n\nDuring the Malayan Emergency (1948–1960), Britain was the first nation to employ the use of herbicides and defoliants to destroy bushes, trees, and vegetation to deprive insurgents of concealment and targeting food crops as part of a starvation campaign in the early 1950s. A detailed account of how the British experimented with the spraying of herbicides was written by two scientists, E.K. Woodford of Agricultural Research Council's Unit of Experimental Agronomy and H.G.H. Kearns of the University of Bristol.\n\nAfter the Malayan conflict ended in 1960, the U.S. considered the British precedent in deciding that the use of defoliants was a legal tactic of warfare. Secretary of State Dean Rusk advised President John F. Kennedy that the British had established a precedent for warfare with herbicides in Malaya.\n\nIn mid-1961, President Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam asked the United States to conduct aerial herbicide spraying in his country. In August of that year, the Republic of Vietnam Air Force conducted herbicide operations with American help. But Diem's request launched a policy debate in the White House and the State and Defense Departments. However, U.S. officials considered using it, pointing out that the British had already used herbicides and defoliants during the Malayan Emergency in the 1950s. In November 1961, President John F. Kennedy authorized the start of Operation Ranch Hand, the codename for the U.S. Air Force's herbicide program in Vietnam.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, between 1962 and 1971, the United States military sprayed nearly of various chemicals – the \"rainbow herbicides\" and defoliants – in Vietnam, eastern Laos, and parts of Cambodia as part of the aerial defoliation program known as Operation Ranch Hand, reaching its peak from 1967 to 1969. For comparison purposes, an olympic size pool holds approximately . As the British did in Malaya, the goal of the US was to defoliate rural/forested land, depriving guerrillas of food and concealment and clearing sensitive areas such as around base perimeters. The program was also a part of a general policy of forced draft urbanization, which aimed to destroy the ability of peasants to support themselves in the countryside, forcing them to flee to the U.S.-dominated cities, depriving the guerrillas of their rural support base.\nAgent Orange was usually sprayed from helicopters or from low-flying C-123 Provider aircraft, fitted with sprayers and \"MC-1 Hourglass\" pump systems and chemical tanks. Spray runs were also conducted from trucks, boats, and backpack sprayers.\n\nThe first batch of herbicides was unloaded at Tan Son Nhut Air Base in South Vietnam, on January 9, 1962. U.S. Air Force records show at least 6,542 spraying missions took place over the course of Operation Ranch Hand. By 1971, 12 percent of the total area of South Vietnam had been sprayed with defoliating chemicals, at an average concentration of 13 times the recommended U.S. Department of Agriculture application rate for domestic use. In South Vietnam alone, an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land was ultimately destroyed. In some areas, TCDD concentrations in soil and water were hundreds of times greater than the levels considered safe by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.\n\nThe campaign destroyed of upland and mangrove forests and thousands of square kilometres of crops. Overall, more than 20% of South Vietnam's forests were sprayed at least once over a nine-year period.\n\nIn 1965, members of the U.S. Congress were told \"crop destruction is understood to be the more important purpose ... but the emphasis is usually given to the jungle defoliation in public mention of the program.\" Military personnel were told they were destroying crops because they were going to be used to feed guerrillas. They later discovered nearly all of the food they had been destroying was not being produced for guerrillas; it was, in reality, only being grown to support the local civilian population. For example, in Quang Ngai province, 85% of the crop lands were scheduled to be destroyed in 1970 alone. This contributed to widespread famine, leaving hundreds of thousands of people malnourished or starving.\n\nThe U.S. military began targeting food crops in October 1962, primarily using Agent Blue; the American public was not made aware of the crop destruction programs until 1965 (and it was then believed that crop spraying had begun that spring). In 1965, 42 percent of all herbicide spraying was dedicated to food crops. The first official acknowledgement of the programs came from the State Department in March 1966.\n\nMany experts at the time, including Arthur Galston, opposed herbicidal warfare due to concerns about the side effects to humans and the environment by indiscriminately spraying the chemical over a wide area. As early as 1966, resolutions were introduced to the United Nations charging that the U.S. was violating the 1925 Geneva Protocol, which regulated the use of chemical and biological weapons. The U.S. defeated most of the resolutions, arguing that Agent Orange was not a chemical or a biological weapon as it was considered a herbicide and a defoliant and it was used in effort to destroy plant crops and to deprive the enemy of concealment and not meant to target human beings. The U.S. delegation argued that a weapon, by definition, is any device used to injure, defeat, or destroy living beings, structures, or systems, and Agent Orange did not qualify under that definition. It also argued that if the U.S. were to be charged for using Agent Orange, then Britain and its Commonwealth nations should be charged since they also used it widely during the Malayan Emergency in the 1950s. In 1969, Britain commented on the draft Resolution 2603 (XXIV): \"The evidence seems to us to be notably inadequate for the assertion that the use in war of chemical substances specifically toxic to plants is prohibited by international law.\"\n\nThe government of Vietnam says that 4 million of its citizens were exposed to Agent Orange, and as many as 3 million have suffered illnesses because of it; these figures include their children who were exposed. The Red Cross of Vietnam estimates that up to 1 million people are disabled or have health problems due to contaminated Agent Orange. The United States government has challenged these figures as being unreliable.\n\nAccording to a study by Dr. Nguyen Viet Nhan, children in the areas where Agent Orange was used have been affected and have multiple health problems, including cleft palate, mental disabilities, hernias, and extra fingers and toes. In the 1970s, high levels of dioxin were found in the breast milk of South Vietnamese women, and in the blood of U.S. military personnel who had served in Vietnam. The most affected zones are the mountainous area along Truong Son (Long Mountains) and the border between Vietnam and Cambodia. The affected residents are living in substandard conditions with many genetic diseases.\n\nIn 2006, Anh Duc Ngo and colleagues of the University of Texas Health Science Center published a meta-analysis that exposed a large amount of heterogeneity (different findings) between studies, a finding consistent with a lack of consensus on the issue. Despite this, statistical analysis of the studies they examined resulted in data that the increase in birth defects/relative risk (RR) from exposure to agent orange/dioxin \"appears\" to be on the order of 3 in Vietnamese-funded studies, but 1.29 in the rest of the world. There is data near the threshold of statistical significance suggesting Agent Orange contributes to still-births, cleft palate, and neural tube defects, with spina bifida being the most statistically significant defect. The large discrepancy in RR between Vietnamese studies and those in the rest of the world has been ascribed to bias in the Vietnamese studies.\n\n28 of the former U.S. military bases in Vietnam where the herbicides were stored and loaded onto airplanes may still have high level of dioxins in the soil, posing a health threat to the surrounding communities. Extensive testing for dioxin contamination has been conducted at the former U.S. airbases in Danang, Phù Cát District and Biên Hòa. Some of the soil and sediment on the bases have extremely high levels of dioxin requiring remediation. The Da Nang Air Base has dioxin contamination up to 350 times higher than international recommendations for action. The contaminated soil and sediment continue to affect the citizens of Vietnam, poisoning their food chain and causing illnesses, serious skin diseases and a variety of cancers in the lungs, larynx, and prostate.\n\nStarting in the early 1990s, the federal government directed the Institute of Medicine (IOM), now known as the National Academy of Medicine, to issue reports every 2 years on the health effects of Agent Orange and similar herbicides. First published in 1994 and titled Veterans and Agent Orange, the IOM reports assess the risk of both cancer and non-cancer health effects. Each health effect is categorized by evidence of association based on available research data.\n\nIn the last update, titled Veterans and Agent Orange: Update 2014 (and published in 2016), the links between Agent Orange exposure and cancer were listed as shown. (Note that this table shows only cancers.) Other health effects are listed in the next section.)\n\nSoft tissue sarcoma; Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL); Hodgkin disease; Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL); including hairy cell leukemia and other chronic B-cell leukemias\n\nRespiratory cancers (lung, bronchus, trachea, larynx); Prostate cancer; Multiple myeloma; Bladder cancer\n\nMouth, throat, and sinus cancers; Gastrointestinal cancers (esophagus, stomach, pancreas, colon, rectum); Liver, gallbladder, and bile duct cancers; Bone and joint cancers; Skin cancers; Breast cancer; Female reproductive cancers (cervical, ovarian, endometrial, uterine sarcoma); Testicular and penile cancers; Kidney cancer; Brain tumors; Cancers of endocrine glands (thyroid, thymus, etc.); Leukemia (other than CLL and hairy cell leukemia); Cancers at all other sites\nCancer (including leukemia) in the children of veteran\n\nPublications by the Public Health Service have shown that Vietnam veterans, overall, have increased rates of cancer, and nerve, digestive, skin, and respiratory disorders. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention notes that in particular, there are higher rates of acute/chronic leukemia, Hodgkin's lymphoma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, throat cancer, prostate cancer, lung cancer, colon cancer, Ischemic heart disease, soft tissue sarcoma and liver cancer. With the exception of liver cancer, these are the same conditions the U.S. Veterans Administration has determined may be associated with exposure to Agent Orange/dioxin, and are on the list of conditions eligible for compensation and treatment.\n\nMilitary personnel who were involved in storage, mixture and transportation (including aircraft mechanics), and actual use of the chemicals were probably among those who received the heaviest exposures. Military members who served on Okinawa also claim to have been exposed to the chemical but there is no verifiable evidence to corroborate these claims.\n\nMore recent research established that veterans exposed to Agent Orange suffer more than twice the rate of highly aggressive prostate cancer. Additionally, recent reports from the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences show that Agent Orange exposure also doubles the risk of invasive skin cancers.\n\nWhile in Vietnam, the veterans were told not to worry, and were persuaded the chemical was harmless. After returning home, Vietnam veterans began to suspect their ill health or the instances of their wives having miscarriages or children born with birth defects might be related to Agent Orange and the other toxic herbicides to which they had been exposed in Vietnam. Veterans began to file claims in 1977 to the Department of Veterans Affairs for disability payments for health care for conditions they believed were associated with exposure to Agent Orange, or more specifically, dioxin, but their claims were denied unless they could prove the condition began when they were in the service or within one year of their discharge.\nIn order to qualify for compensation, veterans must have served on or near the perimeters of military bases in Thailand during the Vietnam Era, where herbicides were tested and stored outside of Vietnam, Veterans who were crew members on C-123 planes flown after the Vietnam War, or were associated with Department of Defense (DoD) projects to test, dispose of, or store herbicides in the U.S.\n\nBy April 1993, the Department of Veterans Affairs had compensated only 486 victims, although it had received disability claims from 39,419 soldiers who had been exposed to Agent Orange while serving in Vietnam.\n\nAbout 17.8 percent——of the total forested area of Vietnam was sprayed during the war, which disrupted the ecological equilibrium. The persistent nature of dioxins, erosion caused by loss of tree cover, and loss of seedling forest stock meant that reforestation was difficult (or impossible) in many areas. Many defoliated forest areas were quickly invaded by aggressive pioneer species (such as bamboo and cogon grass), making forest regeneration difficult and unlikely. Animal-species diversity was also impacted; in one study a Harvard biologist found 24 species of birds and five species of mammals in a sprayed forest, while in two adjacent sections of unsprayed forest there were 145 and 170 species of birds and 30 and 55 species of mammals.\n\nDioxins from Agent Orange have persisted in the Vietnamese environment since the war, settling in the soil and sediment and entering the food chain through animals and fish which feed in the contaminated areas. The movement of dioxins through the food web has resulted in bioconcentration and biomagnification. The areas most heavily contaminated with dioxins are former U.S. air bases.\n\nAmerican policy during the Vietnam War was to destroy crops, accepting the sociopolitical impact that that would have. The RAND Corporation's \"Memorandum 5446-ISA/ARPA\" states: \"the fact that the VC [the Vietcong] obtain most of their food from the neutral rural population dictates the destruction of civilian crops ... if they are to be hampered by the crop destruction program, it will be necessary to destroy large portions of the rural economy – probably 50% or more\". Crops were deliberately sprayed with Agent Orange, areas were bulldozed clear of vegetation, and the rural population was subjected to bombing and artillery fire. In consequence, the urban population in South Vietnam nearly tripled, growing from 2.8 million people in 1958 to 8 million by 1971. The rapid flow of people led to a fast-paced and uncontrolled urbanization; an estimated 1.5 million people were living in Saigon slums due to people moving to cities.\n\nThe extensive environmental damage that resulted from usage of the herbicide prompted the United Nations to pass Resolution 31/72 and ratify the Environmental Modification Convention. Many states do not regard this as a complete ban on the use of herbicides and defoliants in warfare but it does require case-by-case consideration.\n\nIn the Conference on Disarmament, Article 2(4) Protocol III of the weaponry convention contains \"The Jungle Exception\", which prohibits states from attacking forests or jungles \"except if such natural elements are used to cover, conceal or camouflage combatants or military objectives or are military objectives themselves\". This exception voids any protection of any military and civilian personnel from a napalm attack or something like Agent Orange and is clear that it was designed to cover situations like U.S. tactics in Vietnam.\n\nSince at least 1978, several lawsuits have been filed against the companies which produced Agent Orange, among them Dow Chemical, Monsanto, and Diamond Shamrock.\n\nAttorney Hy Mayerson was an early pioneer in Agent Orange litigation, working with environmental attorney Victor Yannacone in 1980 on the first class-action suits against wartime manufacturers of Agent Orange. In meeting Dr. Ronald A. Codario, one of the first civilian doctors to see affected patients, Mayerson, so impressed by the fact a physician would show so much interest in a Vietnam veteran, forwarded more than a thousand pages of information on Agent Orange and the effects of dioxin on animals and humans to Codario's office the day after he was first contacted by the doctor. The corporate defendants sought to escape culpability by blaming everything on the U.S. government.\n\nMayerson, with Sgt. Charles E. Hartz as their principal client, filed the first US Agent Orange class-action lawsuit, in Pennsylvania in 1980, for the injuries military personnel in Vietnam suffered through exposure to toxic dioxins in the defoliant. Attorney Mayerson co-wrote the brief that certified the Agent Orange Product Liability action as a class action, the largest ever filed as of its filing. Hartz's deposition was one of the first ever taken in America, and the first for an Agent Orange trial, for the purpose of preserving testimony at trial, as it was understood that Hartz would not live to see the trial because of a brain tumor that began to develop while he was a member of Tiger Force, special forces, and LRRPs in Vietnam. The firm also located and supplied critical research to the Veterans' lead expert, Dr. Codario, including about 100 articles from toxicology journals dating back more than a decade, as well as data about where herbicides had been sprayed, what the effects of dioxin had been on animals and humans, and every accident in factories where herbicides were produced or dioxin was a contaminant of some chemical reaction.\n\nThe chemical companies involved denied that there was a link between Agent Orange and the veterans' medical problems. However, on May 7, 1984, seven chemical companies settled the class-action suit out of court just hours before jury selection was to begin. The companies agreed to pay $180 million as compensation if the veterans dropped all claims against them. Slightly over 45% of the sum was ordered to be paid by Monsanto alone. Many veterans who were victims of Agent Orange exposure were outraged the case had been settled instead of going to court, and felt they had been betrayed by the lawyers. \"Fairness Hearings\" were held in five major American cities, where veterans and their families discussed their reactions to the settlement, and condemned the actions of the lawyers and courts, demanding the case be heard before a jury of their peers. Federal Judge Jack B. Weinstein refused the appeals, claiming the settlement was \"fair and just\". By 1989, the veterans' fears were confirmed when it was decided how the money from the settlement would be paid out. A totally disabled Vietnam veteran would receive a maximum of $12,000 spread out over the course of 10 years. Furthermore, by accepting the settlement payments, disabled veterans would become ineligible for many state benefits that provided far more monetary support than the settlement, such as food stamps, public assistance, and government pensions. A widow of a Vietnam veteran who died of Agent Orange exposure would only receive $3700.\n\nIn 2004, Monsanto spokesman Jill Montgomery said Monsanto should not be liable at all for injuries or deaths caused by Agent Orange, saying: \"We are sympathetic with people who believe they have been injured and understand their concern to find the cause, but reliable scientific evidence indicates that Agent Orange is not the cause of serious long-term health effects.\"\n\nIn 1980, New Jersey created the New Jersey Agent Orange Commission, the first state commission created to study its effects. The commission's research project in association with Rutgers University was called \"The Pointman Project\". It was disbanded by Governor Christine Todd Whitman in 1996.\n\nDuring Pointman I, commission researchers devised ways to determine small dioxin levels in blood. Prior to this, such levels could only be found in the adipose (fat) tissue. The project studied dioxin (TCDD) levels in blood as well as in adipose tissue in a small group of Vietnam veterans who had been exposed to Agent Orange and compared them to those of a matched control group; the levels were found to be higher in the former group.\n\nThe second phase of the project continued to examine and compare dioxin levels in various groups of Vietnam veterans, including Army, Marines and brown water riverboat Navy personnel.\n\nIn 1991, Congress enacted the Agent Orange Act, giving the Department of Veterans Affairs the authority to declare certain conditions \"presumptive\" to exposure to Agent Orange/dioxin, making these veterans who served in Vietnam eligible to receive treatment and compensation for these conditions. The same law required the National Academy of Sciences to periodically review the science on dioxin and herbicides used in Vietnam to inform the Secretary of Veterans Affairs about the strength of the scientific evidence showing association between exposure to Agent Orange/dioxin and certain conditions. The authority for the National Academy of Sciences reviews and addition of any new diseases to the presumptive list by the VA is expiring in 2015 under the sunset clause of the Agent Orange Act of 1991. Through this process, the list of 'presumptive' conditions has grown since 1991, and currently the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs has listed prostate cancer, respiratory cancers, multiple myeloma, type II diabetes mellitus, Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, soft tissue sarcoma, chloracne, porphyria cutanea tarda, peripheral neuropathy, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and spina bifida in children of veterans exposed to Agent Orange as conditions associated with exposure to the herbicide. This list now includes B cell leukemias, such as hairy cell leukemia, Parkinson's disease and ischemic heart disease, these last three having been added on August 31, 2010. Several highly placed individuals in government are voicing concerns about whether some of the diseases on the list should, in fact, actually have been included.\n\nIn 2011, an appraisal of the 20 year long \"Air Force Health Study\" that began in 1982 indicates that the results of the AFHS as they pertain to Agent Orange, do not provide evidence of disease in the Ranch Hand veterans due to \"their elevated levels of exposure to Agent Orange\".\n\nThe VA denied the applications of post-Vietnam C-123 aircrew veterans because as veterans without \"boots on the ground\" service in Vietnam, they were not covered under VA's interpretation of \"exposed\". At the request of the VA, the Institute Of Medicine evaluated whether or not service in these C-123 aircraft could have plausibly exposed soldiers and been detrimental to their health. Their report \"Post-Vietnam Dioxin Exposure in Agent Orange-Contaminated C-123 Aircraft\" confirmed it. In June 2015 the Secretary of Veterans Affairs issued an Interim final rule providing presumptive service connection for post-Vietnam C-123 aircrews, maintenance staff and aeromedical evacuation crews. VA now provides medical care and disability compensation for the recognized list of Agent Orange illnesses.\n\nIn 2002, Vietnam and the U.S. held a joint conference on Human Health and Environmental Impacts of Agent Orange. Following the conference, the U.S. National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) began scientific exchanges between the U.S. and Vietnam, and began discussions for a joint research project on the human health impacts of Agent Orange.\n\nThese negotiations broke down in 2005, when neither side could agree on the research protocol and the research project was canceled. More progress has been made on the environmental front. In 2005, the first U.S.-Vietnam workshop on remediation of dioxin was held.\n\nStarting in 2005, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) began to work with the Vietnamese government to measure the level of dioxin at the Da Nang Air Base. Also in 2005, the Joint Advisory Committee on Agent Orange, made up of representatives of Vietnamese and U.S. government agencies, was established. The committee has been meeting yearly to explore areas of scientific cooperation, technical assistance and environmental remediation of dioxin.\n\nA breakthrough in the diplomatic stalemate on this issue occurred as a result of United States President George W. Bush's state visit to Vietnam in November 2006. In the joint statement, President Bush and President Triet agreed \"further joint efforts to address the environmental contamination near former dioxin storage sites would make a valuable contribution to the continued development of their bilateral relationship.\"\n\nOn May 25, 2007, President Bush signed the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007 into law for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan that included an earmark of $3 million specifically for funding for programs for the remediation of dioxin 'hotspots' on former U.S. military bases, and for public health programs for the surrounding communities; some authors consider this to be completely inadequate, pointing out that the U.S. airbase in Da Nang, alone, will cost $14 million to clean up, and that three others are estimated to require $60 million for cleanup. The appropriation was renewed in the fiscal year 2009 and again in FY 2010. An additional $12 million was appropriated in the fiscal year 2010 in the Supplemental Appropriations Act and a total of $18.5 million appropriated for fiscal year 2011.\n\nSecretary of State Hillary Clinton stated during a visit to Hanoi in October 2010 that the U.S. government would begin work on the clean-up of dioxin contamination at the Da Nang airbase.\n\nIn June 2011, a ceremony was held at Da Nang airport to mark the start of U.S.-funded decontamination of dioxin hotspots in Vietnam. Thirty-two million dollars has so far been allocated by the U.S. Congress to fund the program.\n\nA $43 million project began in the summer of 2012, as Vietnam and the U.S. forge closer ties to boost trade and counter China's rising influence in the disputed South China Sea.\n\nOn January 31, 2004, a victim's rights group, the Vietnam Association for Victims of Agent Orange/dioxin (VAVA), filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York in Brooklyn, against several U.S. companies for liability in causing personal injury, by developing, and producing the chemical, and claimed that the use of Agent Orange violated the 1907 Hague Convention on Land Warfare, 1925 Geneva Protocol, and the 1949 Geneva Conventions. Dow Chemical and Monsanto were the two largest producers of Agent Orange for the U.S. military, and were named in the suit, along with the dozens of other companies (Diamond Shamrock, Uniroyal, Thompson Chemicals, Hercules, etc.). On March 10, 2005, Judge Jack B. Weinstein of the Eastern District – who had presided over the 1984 U.S. veterans class-action lawsuit – dismissed the lawsuit, ruling there was no legal basis for the plaintiffs' claims. He concluded Agent Orange was not considered a poison under international law at the time of its use by the U.S.; the U.S. was not prohibited from using it as a herbicide; and the companies which produced the substance were not liable for the method of its use by the government. Weinstein used the British example to help dismiss the claims of people exposed to Agent Orange in their suit against the chemical companies that had supplied it.\n\nGeorge Jackson stated that \"if the Americans were guilty of war crimes for using Agent Orange in Vietnam, then the British would be also guilty of war crimes as well since they were the first nation to deploy the use of herbicides and defoliants in warfare and used them on a large scale throughout the Malayan Emergency. Not only was there no outcry by other states in response to Britain's use, but the U.S. viewed it as establishing a precedent for the use of herbicides and defoliants in jungle warfare.\" The U.S. government was also not a party in the lawsuit, due to sovereign immunity, and the court ruled the chemical companies, as contractors of the U.S. government, shared the same immunity.\nThe case was appealed and heard by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan on June 18, 2007. Three judges on the Second Circuit Court of Appeals upheld Weinstein's ruling to dismiss the case. They ruled that, though the herbicides contained a dioxin (a known poison), they were not intended to be used as a poison on humans. Therefore, they were not considered a chemical weapon and thus not a violation of international law. A further review of the case by the whole panel of judges of the Court of Appeals also confirmed this decision. The lawyers for the Vietnamese filed a petition to the U.S. Supreme Court to hear the case. On March 2, 2009, the Supreme Court denied certiorari and refused to reconsider the ruling of the Court of Appeals.\n\nIn a November 2004 Zogby International poll of 987 people, 79% of respondents thought the U.S. chemical companies which produced Agent Orange defoliant should compensate U.S. soldiers who were affected by the toxic chemical used during the war in Vietnam. Also, 51% said they supported compensation for Vietnamese Agent Orange victims.\n\nTo assist those who have been affected by Agent Orange/dioxin, the Vietnamese have established \"peace villages\", which each host between 50 and 100 victims, giving them medical and psychological help. As of 2006, there were 11 such villages, thus granting some social protection to fewer than a thousand victims. U.S. veterans of the war in Vietnam and individuals who are aware and sympathetic to the impacts of Agent Orange have supported these programs in Vietnam. An international group of veterans from the U.S. and its allies during the Vietnam War working with their former enemy—veterans from the Vietnam Veterans Association—established the Vietnam Friendship Village outside of Hanoi.\n\nThe center provides medical care, rehabilitation and vocational training for children and veterans from Vietnam who have been affected by Agent Orange. In 1998, The Vietnam Red Cross established the Vietnam Agent Orange Victims Fund to provide direct assistance to families throughout Vietnam that have been affected. In 2003, the Vietnam Association of Victims of Agent Orange (VAVA) was formed. In addition to filing the lawsuit against the chemical companies, VAVA provides medical care, rehabilitation services and financial assistance to those injured by Agent Orange.\n\nThe Vietnamese government provides small monthly stipends to more than 200,000 Vietnamese believed affected by the herbicides; this totaled $40.8 million in 2008 alone. The Vietnam Red Cross has raised more than $22 million to assist the ill or disabled, and several U.S. foundations, United Nations agencies, European governments and nongovernmental organizations have given a total of about $23 million for site cleanup, reforestation, health care and other services to those in need.\n\nVuong Mo of the Vietnam News Agency described one of the centers:\n\nMay is 13, but she knows nothing, is unable to talk fluently, nor walk with ease due to for her bandy legs. Her father is dead and she has four elder brothers, all mentally retarded ... The students are all disabled, retarded and of different ages. Teaching them is a hard job. They are of the 3rd grade but many of them find it hard to do the reading. Only a few of them can. Their pronunciation is distorted due to their twisted lips and their memory is quite short. They easily forget what they've learned ... In the Village, it is quite hard to tell the kids' exact ages. Some in their twenties have a physical statures as small as the 7- or 8-years-old. They find it difficult to feed themselves, much less have mental ability or physical capacity for work. No one can hold back the tears when seeing the heads turning round unconsciously, the bandy arms managing to push the spoon of food into the mouths with awful difficulty ... Yet they still keep smiling, singing in their great innocence, at the presence of some visitors, craving for something beautiful.\n\nOn June 16, 2010, members of the U.S.-Vietnam Dialogue Group on Agent Orange/Dioxin unveiled a comprehensive 10-year Declaration and Plan of Action to address the toxic legacy of Agent Orange and other herbicides in Vietnam. The Plan of Action was released as an Aspen Institute publication and calls upon the U.S. and Vietnamese governments to join with other governments, foundations, businesses, and nonprofits in a partnership to clean up dioxin \"hot spots\" in Vietnam and to expand humanitarian services for people with disabilities there. On September 16, 2010, Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) acknowledged the work of the Dialogue Group by releasing a statement on the floor of the United States Senate. The statement urges the U.S. government to take the Plan of Action's recommendations into account in developing a multi-year plan of activities to address the Agent Orange/dioxin legacy.\n\nIn 2008, Australian researcher Jean Williams claimed that cancer rates in the town of Innisfail, Queensland were 10 times higher than the state average due to secret testing of Agent Orange by the Australian military scientists during the Vietnam War. Williams, who had won the Order of Australia medal for her research on the effects of chemicals on U.S. war veterans, based her allegations on Australian government reports found in the Australian War Memorial's archives. A former soldier, Ted Bosworth, backed up the claims, saying that he had been involved in the secret testing. Neither Williams or Bosworth have produced verifiable evidence to support their claims. The Queensland health department determined that cancer rates in Innisfail were no higher than those in other parts of the state.\n\nThe Brazilian government in the late 1960s used herbicides to defoliate a large section of the Amazon rainforest so that Alcoa could build the Tucuruí dam to power mining operations. Large areas of rainforest were destroyed, along with the homes and livelihoods of thousands of rural peasants and indigenous tribes.\n\nAgent Orange was used as a defoliant in eastern Cambodia during the Vietnam War, but its impacts are difficult to assess due to the chaos caused by the Khmer Rouge regime.\n\nThe U.S. military, with the permission of the Canadian government, tested herbicides, including Agent Orange, in the forests near the Canadian Forces Base Gagetown in New Brunswick. In 2007, the government of Canada offered a one-time ex gratia payment of $20,000 as compensation for Agent Orange exposure at CFB Gagetown. On July 12, 2005, Merchant Law Group LLP on behalf of over 1,100 Canadian veterans and civilians who were living in and around the CFB Gagetown filed a lawsuit to pursue class action litigation concerning Agent Orange and Agent Purple with the Federal Court of Canada. On August 4, 2009, the case was rejected by the court due to lack of evidence. The ruling was appealed.\nIn 2007, the Canadian government announced that a research and fact-finding program initiated in 2005 had found the base was safe.\n\nOn February 17, 2011, the \"Toronto Star\" revealed that Agent Orange was employed to clear extensive plots of Crown land in Northern Ontario. The \"Toronto Star\" reported that, \"records from the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s show forestry workers, often students and junior rangers, spent weeks at a time as human markers holding red, helium-filled balloons on fishing lines while low-flying planes sprayed toxic herbicides including an infamous chemical mixture known as Agent Orange on the brush and the boys below.\" In response to the \"Toronto Star\" article, the Ontario provincial government launched a probe into the use of Agent Orange.\n\nAn analysis of chemicals present in the island's soil, together with resolutions passed by Guam's legislature, suggest that Agent Orange was among the herbicides routinely used on and around military bases Anderson Air Force Base, Naval Air Station Agana, Guam. Despite the evidence, the Department of Defense continues to deny that Agent Orange was ever stored or used on Guam. Several Guam veterans have collected an enormous amount of evidence to assist in their disability claims for direct exposure to dioxin containing herbicides such as 2,4,5-T which are similar to the illness associations and disability coverage that has become standard for those who were harmed by the same chemical contaminant of Agent Orange used in Vietnam.\n\nAgent Orange was used in Korea in the late 1960s.\n\nThe United States local press KPHO-TV in Phoenix, Arizona, alleged (in 2011) that the United States Army had in 1978 buried 250 drums of Agent Orange in Camp Carroll, the U.S. Army base in Gyeongsangbuk-do, Korea.\n\nIn 1999, about 20,000 South Koreans filed two separated lawsuits against U.S. companies, seeking more than $5 billion in damages. After losing a decision in 2002, they filed an appeal.\n\nIn January 2006, the South Korean Appeals Court ordered Dow Chemical and Monsanto to pay $62 million in compensation to about 6,800 people. The ruling acknowledged that \"the defendants failed to ensure safety as the defoliants manufactured by the defendants had higher levels of dioxins than standard\", and, quoting the U.S. National Academy of Science report, declared that there was a \"causal relationship\" between Agent Orange and a range of diseases, including several cancers. The judges failed to acknowledge \"the relationship between the chemical and peripheral neuropathy, the disease most widespread among Agent Orange victims\".\n\nCurrently, veterans who provide evidence meeting VA requirements for service in Vietnam, and who can medically establish that anytime after this 'presumptive exposure' they developed any medical problems on the list of presumptive diseases, may receive compensation from the VA. Certain veterans who served in Korea and are able to prove they were assigned to certain specified around the DMZ during a specific time frame are afforded similar presumption.\n\nParts of Laos were sprayed with Agent Orange during the Vietnam War.\n\nThe use of Agent Orange has been controversial in New Zealand, because of the exposure of New Zealand troops in Vietnam and because of the production of Agent Orange for Vietnam and other users at an Ivon Watkins-Dow chemical plant in Paritutu, New Plymouth. There have been continuing claims, as yet unproven, that the suburb of Paritutu has also been polluted; see New Zealand in the Vietnam War.\nThere are cases of New Zealand soldiers developing cancers such as bone cancer but none has been scientifically connected to exposure to herbicides.\n\nHerbicide persistence studies of Agents Orange and White were conducted in the Philippines.\n\nThe U.S. Air Force operation to remove Herbicide Orange from Vietnam in 1972 was named Operation Pacer IVY, while the operation to destroy the Agent Orange stored at Johnston Atoll in 1977 was named Operation Pacer HO. Operation Pacer IVY (InVentorY) collected Agent Orange in South Vietnam and removed it in 1972 aboard the ship for storage on Johnston Atoll. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reports that of Herbicide Orange was stored at Johnston Island in the Pacific and at Gulfport in Mississippi.\n\nResearch and studies were initiated to find a safe method to destroy the materials and it was discovered they could be incinerated safely under special conditions of temperature and dwell time. However, these herbicides were expensive and the Air Force wanted to resell its surplus instead of dumping it at sea. Among many methods tested, a possibility of salvaging the herbicides by reprocessing and filtering out the 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) contaminant with carbonized (charcoaled) coconut fibers. This concept was then tested in 1976 and a pilot plant constructed at Gulfport.\n\nFrom July to September 1977 during Operation Pacer HO (Herbicide Orange), the entire stock of Agent Orange from both Herbicide Orange storage sites at Gulfport and Johnston Atoll was subsequently incinerated in four separate burns in the vicinity of Johnson Island aboard the Dutch-owned waste incineration ship .\n\nAs of 2004, some records of the storage and disposition of Agent Orange at Johnston Atoll have been associated with the historical records of Operation Red Hat.\n\nThere have been dozens of reports in the press about use and/or storage of military formulated herbicides on Okinawa that are based upon statements by former U.S. service members that had been stationed on the island, photographs, government records, and unearthed storage barrels. The U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) has denied these allegations with statements by military officials and spokespersons, as well as a January 2013 report authored by Dr. Alvin Young that was released in April 2013.\n\nIn particular, the 2013 report refuted articles written by journalist Jon Mitchell as well as a statement from \"An Ecological Assessment of Johnston Atoll\" a 2003 publication produced by the United States Army Chemical Materials Agency that states, \"in 1972, the U.S. Air Force also brought about 25,000 200L drums of the chemical, Herbicide Orange (HO) to Johnston Island that originated from Vietnam and was stored on Okinawa.\" The 2013 report stated: \"The authors of the [2003] report were not DoD employees, nor were they likely familiar with the issues surrounding Herbicide Orange or its actual history of transport to the Island.\" and detailed the transport phases and routes of Agent Orange from Vietnam to Johnston Atoll, none of which included Okinawa.\n\nFurther official confirmation of restricted (dioxin containing) herbicide storage on Okinawa appeared in a 1971 Fort Detrick report titled \"Historical, Logistical, Political and Technical Aspects of the Herbicide/Defoliant Program\", which mentioned that the environmental statement should consider \"Herbicide stockpiles elsewhere in PACOM (Pacific Command) U.S. Government restricted materials Thailand and Okinawa (Kadena AFB).\" The 2013 DoD report says that the environmental statement urged by the 1971 report was published in 1974 as \"The Department of Air Force Final Environmental Statement\", and that the latter did not find Agent Orange was held in either Thailand or Okinawa.\n\nAgent Orange was tested by the United States in Thailand during the war in Southeast Asia. Buried drums were uncovered and confirmed to be Agent Orange in 1999. Workers who uncovered the drums fell ill while upgrading the airport near Hua Hin District, 100 km south of Bangkok.\n\nVietnam-era Veterans whose service involved duty on or near the perimeters of military bases in Thailand anytime between February 28, 1961, and May 7, 1975, may have been exposed to herbicides and may qualify for VA benefits.\n\nA declassified Department of Defense report written in 1973, suggests that there was a significant use of herbicides on the fenced-in perimeters of military bases in Thailand to remove foliage that provided cover for enemy forces.\n\nIn 2013, VA determined that herbicides used on the Thailand base perimeters may have been tactical and procured from Vietnam, or a strong, commercial type resembling tactical herbicides.\n\nThe University of Hawaii has acknowledged extensive testing of Agent Orange on behalf of the United States Department of Defense in Hawaii along with mixtures of Agent Orange on Kaua'i Island in 1967–68 and on Hawaii Island in 1966; testing and storage in other U.S. locations has been documented by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.\n\nIn 1971, the C-123 aircraft used for spraying Agent Orange were returned to the United States and assigned various East Coast USAF Reserve squadrons, and then employed in traditional airlift missions between 1972 and 1982. In 1994, testing by the Air Force identified some former spray aircraft as \"heavily contaminated\" with dioxin residue. Inquiries by aircrew veterans in 2011 brought a decision by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs opining that not enough dioxin residue remained to injure these post-Vietnam War veterans. On 26 January 2012, the U.S. Center For Disease Control's Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry challenged this with their finding that former spray aircraft were indeed contaminated and the aircrews exposed to harmful levels of dioxin. In response to veterans' concerns, the VA in February 2014 referred the C-123 issue to the Institute of Medicine for a special study, with results released on January 9, 2015.\n\nIn 1978, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency suspended spraying of Agent Orange in National Forests.\n\nA December 2006 Department of Defense report listed Agent Orange testing, storage, and disposal sites at 32 locations throughout the United States, as well as in Canada, Thailand, Puerto Rico, Korea, and in the Pacific Ocean. The Veteran Administration has also acknowledged that Agent Orange was used domestically by U.S. forces in test sites throughout the United States. Eglin Air Force Base in Florida was one of the primary testing sites throughout the 1960s.\n\nIn February 2012, Monsanto agreed to settle a case covering Dioxin contamination around a plant in Nitro, West Virginia, that had manufactured Agent Orange. Monsanto agreed to pay up to $9 million for cleanup of affected homes, $84 million for medical monitoring of people affected, and the community's legal fees.\n\nOn 9 August 2012, the United States and Vietnam began a cooperative cleaning up of the toxic chemical on part of Danang International Airport, marking the first time Washington has been involved in cleaning up Agent Orange in Vietnam. Danang was the primary storage site of the chemical. Two other cleanup sites the United States and Vietnam are looking at is Biên Hòa, in the southern province of Đồng Nai—a \"hotspot\" for dioxin—and Phù Cát airport in the central province of Bình Định, says U.S. Ambassador to Vietnam David Shear. According to the Vietnamese newspaper \"Nhân Dân\", the U.S. government provided $41 million to the project, which will reduce the contamination level in 73,000 cubic meters of soil by late 2016. Some 45,000 cubic meters were \"cleaned\", an equal amount began in October 2016 scheduled for completion in mid 2017.\n\nDue to the fact that destruction requires high temperatures (over 1000 °C), the destruction process is energy intensive.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39337723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39337723", "title": "And Then There Was One (1994 film)", "text": "And Then There Was One (1994 film)\n\nAnd Then There was One is a 1994 television film starring Amy Madigan and Dennis Boutsikaris. It was directed by David Jones. The film first aired on the Lifetime Television network on March 9, 1994.\n\nThe film stars Amy Madigan as Roxy Ventola, Dennis Boutsikaris as Vinnie Ventola, and Jane Daly as Lorrie. Other cast members in the film include Jennifer Hetrick as Janet, Martha Henry as Dr. Moore, and Kenneth Welsh as David Burns. The film's production companies were Freyda Rothstein Productions and Hearst Entertainment Productions.\n\nBased on real events, the film follows the story of two Los Angeles-based screenwriters who had attended a fertility clinic in order to conceive a child, before HIV testing became routine. The couple's implant was successful, but the family discovered they had the AIDS virus. Vinnie Ventola died in 1991, and the baby Miranda died of the disease only a day later. Roxy Ventola was a co-producer of \"And Then There was One\" and she remarried in 1993, to AIDS activist Matthew McGrath, before dying from AIDS on November 14, 1994.\n\nShe had become an activist herself and a successful advocate for peer counseling and peer support programs. She was president of the Board of Women at Risk, a support service for women with HIV/AIDS; a co-founding member of Women Alive, a peer group run by and for women volunteers with HIV/AIDS; a founding member of Friends for Life, a support service for heterosexuals with HIV/AIDS; and an active member of ACT UP/LA. Her play, \"After the Bomb\", which was about a post-AIDS world, was produced in the spring of 1994, at Open Fist Theater in Los Angeles. She performed in the Michael Kerns play, \"AIDS, US Women: Silent NO More.\"\n\nMadigan was the winner of the CableACE award for \"Actress in a Movie or Miniseries\" for her performance in \"And Then There was One\". In her acceptance speech she gave tribute to the Ventola family and mentioned that Roxy had since died.\n\nIn America, the film was issued on DVD via Lifetime Television as part of \"The True Stories Collection\" series. In recent years, Fisher Klingenstein Films issued the film on Amazon Video. In the UK, the film was released on VHS and DVD. It was issued in 1997 on VHS via Odyssey as part of \"The Weepie Collection\" series, whilst another Odyseey VHS edition was also issued in 2001., It was released onto DVD in July 2008 by Infinity Media. It was issued as a true story double film set alongside the 2002 film \"Crossing the Line\", starring Terry Farrell.\n\nRoxy and Vinnie Ventola are a successful television screenwriting couple, who are struggling to conceive a child. Aside from that the couple have the perfect, happy marriage. After years of fertility treatments, the couple manage to conceive a daughter, Miranda, who falls ill with what is at first believed to be the flu, and then pneumonia. However, the underlying cause is soon revealed when the couple learn that their newborn has AIDS. Soon afterward, the two parents are also diagnosed with the virus. The film follows the family as they struggle to deal with the social, spiritual and physical tolls that the disease exacts on its sufferers.\n\n\nBernadette McCallion of AllMovie gave the film two and a half stars out of five and called the film a \"heart-wrenching made-for-cable drama\". Diane Wild of DVD Verdict reviewed the film in 2005. She felt the film lost its \"emotional effect because we don't get to know these characters as real people\". She added: \"The filmmakers may have thought the story was compelling enough on its own, but without the help of well-developed characters, it feels oddly jarring. Criticizing this well-meaning film feels like kicking a puppy - a sick puppy - but it's not a particularly entertaining hour and a half, when what should be a heart wrenching story is undermined by a script that treats its protagonists as saints instead of people. Unfortunately \"And Then There was One\" is too dated and simplistic to bring anything meaningful to the AIDS on film canon, and it doesn't manage to be a compelling drama outside of the real-life tragedy of the disease itself.\"\n"}
{"id": "34878688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34878688", "title": "Angus Buchan's Ordinary People", "text": "Angus Buchan's Ordinary People\n\nAngus Buchan's Ordinary People is a 2012 South African drama film that tells the story of South African preacher Angus Buchan and the intertwining stories of three men en route to one of Buchan's Mighty Men's Conferences. It is not a sequel to the film \"Faith Like Potatoes,\" also based on the life story of Angus Buchan. The film was directed by FC Hamman and stars Anton Dekker, Jaco Muller, Lucky Koza, David James, Kate Normington, Robin Smith and Norman Anstey. Buchan makes a brief appearance as himself.\n\nThe film opens with Angus Buchan's story as he realizes from the time he is a teen that he wants to be a preacher, and is discouraged when his minister tells him about the years of schooling he must complete. He goes on to acquire a farm and eventually marry, and while he works hard to make a success of his land, he never abandons his dream. He begins by preaching to the maize in his field from the back of his truck, and this grows into his audience of thousands at his Mighty Men's Conferences.\n\nThe story then shifts to three interwoven stories, based on real characters and real events.\n\nLucky Nzimande (Lucky Koza) is a career criminal who unwittingly attempts to hijack what turns out to be two policemen on their way to the Mighty Men's Conference. After his gun fails to fire on Lucky, one of the policemen takes this as a sign from God that he is meant to take the man to the Conference with them. They handcuff Lucky in the back and ask him about his story; he talks about never knowing his father and his mother dying when he was 8. He started stealing early on to help provide for his siblings and grandmother, who died when he was 13. Lucky escapes from the policemen and is assaulted that night, suffering a gash on his head. The next day the men see him and kindly offer to tend to his wound and give him a ride home. Afterwards he agrees to go to the Conference with them.\n\nAndré Cloete (Jaco Muller) is an alcoholic young adult who is self-destructing quickly due in part to his emotionally absent but strictly religious father. His mother covers for him when he crashes his car into a neighbor's gate, begging her not to call the police. After another severe accident his father prays over him and realizes he is too harsh, but Andre continues to drink and party after getting out of the hospital. He then finally agrees to attend the Conference with his father and brother.\n\nJohn Peters (Anton Dekker) is a middle-aged panel beater and biker with two sons. He marries a woman named Marlene and she and her two girls move in with them. Marlene's brother-in-law Danny (David James) asks John for a business loan; John doesn't have the money but agrees to stand surety if Danny applies for a bank loan. John's youngest son then dies in a motorcycle accident, Danny defaults on the loan and John is diagnosed with a chronic lung condition. Sensing he is taking his anger out on his oldest son, Marlene encourages him to attend the Conference. John reconciles with Danny and apologizes to his son before he goes.\n\nThe men all make their way to a Mighty Men's Conference where they listen to Buchan's preaching, which includes his recounting of the two heart attacks he suffered the year before.\n\nAfter the Conference, Lucky returns to his impoverished hometown and begins passing out religious flyers. Andre calls a friend and tells him that he's given his life to the Lord. John suffers an accident on the way home and dies. After his funeral, Danny is seen off to himself, crying and praying.\n\nThe film ends with titles revealing that Lucky continues to preach, Andre does volunteer work, and John's oldest son Gavin took over his business and continues to care for Marlene and her girls.\n\n\nThe movie was produced by Andre Scholtz, Jarrod de Jong, FC Hamman and Peter Scott; it was directed by FC Hamman. It is distributed by Ster-Kinekor Distribution in South Africa.\n\nFilming took place in Johannesburg, Cape Town, Limpopo and Greytown, and the film includes live footage of one of Buchan's Mighty Men's Conferences as held on his Shalom Farms. It also employed hundreds of extras for scenes of Buchan's preaching.\n\nAccording to Buchan, director FC Hamman, who had directed the official documentary for the World Cup in South Africa, approached him after a Mighty Men's Conference in 2010. \"He told me he wanted to do something for God ... He said he wanted to make a movie about what happened to men at the conference.\"\n\nThe original score was provided by South African composer and musician Mauritz Lotz, and music by international Christian recording artist Michael W. Smith.\n\nThe film received positive to mixed reviews from critics. Tina George of \"IOL Tonight\" gave it 4 stars out of 5, stating, \"Director Hamman does a superb job in captivating the audience with these real-life scenarios.\" Philip Altebeker of \"Business Day\" stated, \"Ordinary People is filled with motor accidents and Hamman’s overuse of this device — literally, a deus ex machine — detracts from the intended message which, to his credit, is otherwise treated discreetly if not completely convincingly despite having its heart in the right place.\" According to \"Screen Africa\", the movie opened at the number six spot in the local box office.\n\n\"Faith Like Potatoes\"<br>\nMighty Men's Conference\n\n"}
{"id": "2483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2483", "title": "April 21", "text": "April 21\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "972534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=972534", "title": "Bonsai Kitten", "text": "Bonsai Kitten\n\nBonsai Kitten was a hoax website that claimed to provide instructions on how to grow a kitten in a jar, so as to mold the bones of the kitten into the shape of the jar as the cat grows, much like how a bonsai plant is shaped. It was made by an MIT university student going by the alias of Dr. Michael Wong Chang. The website generated furor after members of the public complained to animal rights organizations. The Michigan Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (MSPCA) stated that \"while the site's content may be faked, the issue it is campaigning for may create violence towards animals\". Although the website was shut down some time ago, petitions are still circulated to shut down the site or complain to its ISP. The website has been debunked by several organizations including snopes.com and the Humane Society of the United States.\n\nOn October 30, 2000, BonsaiKitten.com was featured as a \"Cruel Site of the Day\" on the website Cruel.com. When this attracted complaints, Cruel.com removed its links to BonsaiKitten.com. Afterwards, however, when links to the BonsaiKitten.com website then spread across the world, many concerned animal lovers sent complaints to the Animal Welfare Institute and the Humane Society of the United States. Animal welfare groups made statements saying that Bonsai Kittens were not real. The URL drew criticism, which caused the initial host, MIT, to remove it.\n\nBonsaiKitten.com's pictures show kittens in jars, presented as real examples of the \"lost art\" as described on the Bonsai Kitten web page. The spoof, according to \"Dr. Chang\", is that the world increasingly sees nature as a commodity, so such a site may well be in demand. The spoof came to large-scale attention as The Cruel Site of the Day for December 22, 2000, and was continually heavily condemned by animal rights organizations, and after hundreds of people complained daily to them, they stated that even if Bonsai Kitten was a spoof it \"encourages animal cruelty\".\n\nThe webpage being featured on the cruel.com website was significantly controversial and it was quickly removed. Initial humane society statements decrying the website as \"encouraging abuse\" caused local investigation, along with an FBI announcement that it was to investigate the hoax. The prosecution of the site by the FBI was welcomed by animal activists, but decried by web authorities. The FBI backed up its investigating of Bonsai Kitten by using a law signed by President Bill Clinton in 1999. The attacking of the BonsaiKitten.com website had the effect of displacing the website, which found a new ISP two more times, before being permanently hosted on Rotten.com servers. Because the website is still kept on some mirrors, it continues to receive complaints from animal activists.\n\nThe furor over the site triggered by animal rights organizations has been offset by their continued statements that the site itself is a fake. They have been stating this since 2001.\n\nSince 2000, groups such as the Animal Welfare Institute and The Humane Society of the United States have received hundreds of complaints. Animal welfare groups declared the site as fake but stated they did believe it was potentially harmful. Other animal rights groups have stated that the site creates an atmosphere of cruelty to animals. There is no evidence to date that the site is anything more than satire. Numerous authorities have advised people to stop sending complaint forms via email.\n\nThe original bonsaikitten.com is mirrored by many sites today. The nature and presentation of the sites content is such that many animal rights activists still take issue with the context of the website. Bonsai Kitten has been further updated from other servers, but infrequently and slowly, with recent additions to the site being research indicating that kitty litter causes brain damage. The website states that this enhances the Bonsai Kitten art form's practical value.\n\nThe controversy started soon after the creation of the BonsaiKitten.com website. It has continued since and has been the object of numerous spam email pleas. These pleas rely on the audiences, often not knowing English, to spread them. Consequently, these petitions are often spread via the Internet in non-English-speaking countries. Blues News also provided a link, which was shortly thereafter removed from the site, as complaints against the website's existence and its content began to surface.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34602949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34602949", "title": "Bowdoin Square Theatre", "text": "Bowdoin Square Theatre\n\nThe Bowdoin Square Theatre (est.1892) in Boston, Massachusetts, was a playhouse and cinema. It was located on Bowdoin Square in the West End, in a building designed by architect C.H. Blackall. Personnel included Charles F. Atkinson and William Harris. Audience members included future magician Julius Linsky and future actor Joseph Sicari\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2698060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2698060", "title": "Central City Opera House", "text": "Central City Opera House\n\nThe Central City Opera House is located in the Central City/Black Hawk Historic District in Central City, Colorado, United States. It was constructed in 1878. It has offered operatic and theatrical productions that drew prominent actors and performers in the late 19th-century, and in the early 20th-century it was a motion picture theatre.\n\nThe opera house was designated to the National Register of Historic Places in 1973.\n\nIn 1877, the citizens of Central City formed the Gilpin County Opera House Association to fundraise for the state's first opera house. Denver architect Robert S. Roeschlaub designed the Renaissance Revival stone and brick structure, with a crescent-shaped balcony and arched windows. San Francisco artist John C. Massman painted a mural to the ceiling with a central medallion that features the sky, surrounded by a large geometrical patter, and trompe-l'œil architectural moldings.\n\nIt was built by Welsh and Cornish miners and town residents, who had a tradition of music, and some of the best building professionals in the area. The opera house is kept cool during the summer by a creek flows that through a flume under the building. Electricity was installed in 1896 and it was renovated, without structural changes in 1903.\n\nIn 1929 a dedicated band of Denver preservationists and music lovers formed the Central City Opera House Association to perform a renovation and re-open the opera house. It was a volunteer-driven effort led by Ida Kruse McFarlane, Edna Chappell and Anne Evans that resulted in an extensive restoration of the Opera House in 1932. In the 1980s and 1990s, the entire structure was restored, including the foundation and replacement of the 1920-era lighting relic by a computerized lighting system. In 1999, wooden chairs were replaced with plush new theater seating.\n\nWith the 1878 grand opening, Central City was Colorado's cultural capital until another opera house, Tabor Grand Opera House, opened in 1881. The Opera House was not turning a profit and it expanded its repertoire to include theatre productions to increase its revenues. They featured prominent 19th-century actors such as Joseph Jefferson, Edwin Booth, Madame Januschek and Fannie Barlow. In addition, Buffalo Bill performed here as well as P. T. Barnum's circus.\n\nPeter MacFarlane, who was a contractor for the original construction and the contractor for the 1903 renovation, became the principal owner of the Opera House by 1910, when he opened it as a motion picture theatre. The Opera House closed in 1927.\nThe opera house was donated to the University of Denver in May 1931 by MacFarlane's heirs and restoration was organized by the newly formed Central City Opera House Association. The summer of 1932, actress Lillian Gish opened the newly restored opera house with \"Camille\". It began a tradition of offering summer opera and theater festivals, which have become nationally recognized.\nThe Central City Opera company was also formed that year. It is fifth the oldest opera company in the United States. One of its popular performances is \"The Ballad of Baby Doe\", which tells the story of wealthy mine-owner Horace Tabor and his second wife Baby Doe Tabor. It was first performed in 1956. In 2001, it was the first opera company in the United States to produce \"Gloriana\" of Elizabeth I by Benjamin Britten. Gioachino Rossini's \"The Barber of Seville\" was performed by the Central City Opera in 2015.\n\nSamuel Ramey and Beverly Sills have performed at the opera house. It was noted by Daniel Rule, who managed the Central City Opera company, that 29 of the performers of the Metropolitan Opera in New York had performed at Central City. The Central City Opera House Association owns 30 Victorian houses in town that are used during the summer to board singers who perform at the opera house. Up until 2000 all of the operas were performed in English. Central City Opera now performs all of its operas in their original languages.\n\nThe opera house continues to offer several operatic productions each summer and screenings of silent and classic films.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33685307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33685307", "title": "Concerto: One Night in Central Park", "text": "Concerto: One Night in Central Park\n\nConcerto: One Night in Central Park is a live album by Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli.\n\nThe album was recorded September 15, 2011, during a concert at the Central Park's Great Lawn, in New York City. Guest performers included Celine Dion, Tony Bennett, Chris Botti, Bryn Terfel, Pretty Yende, and music producer David Foster.\n\nPBS Announced that it would broadcast the concert nationwide, as \"Andrea Bocelli Live in Central Park\".\n\nThe album, immediately upon release, entered the Billboard Top 10 and peaked at No. 4 on the Billboard \"200\".\n\nIt was announced that Bocelli will give a free concert sponsored by Barilla, in September, on the Great Lawn of Central Park in New York City.\n\nAfter the announcement Bocelli declared that, \"I cannot help but smile when thinking about the upcoming concert in Central Park. It was my father's dream, and my father was right, because my artistic path would have been entirely different without the strong and sincere embrace of this extraordinary city where everything is possible, even when it seems impossible.\" Bocelli continues, \"My father will not be there, but I can count on his blessing and his kind and gentle smile to give me courage. My mother, sitting in the front row, will feel my father too, and they will be together again just like when I was a little boy performing on the fireplace steps. Perhaps they had secretly dreamed that I might have the opportunity to perform in New York City, and maybe right here in Central Park.\"\n\nNew York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said, \"The Great Lawn in Central Park is one of the most remarkable and beautiful outdoor venues in the world and it is a great pleasure to welcome Andrea Bocelli back to New York to perform there. This free concert will be a memorable cultural moment for the thousands of New Yorkers and visitors that will watch the event live in the park, and many, many more through the broadcast by WNET.\"\n\nNew York City Parks Commissioner Adrian Benepe said, \"I join the Mayor and all New Yorkers in thanking Andrea Bocelli and all involved in making a beautiful autumn evening full of splendor and world-class music possible, in one of the most cherished outdoor places in New York City. From the Great Lawn in the heart of Manhattan to the Great Performances series on WNET, where millions more will be able to share this gift, it will be a very special occasion. A million thank yous. Grazie mille!\"\n\nDuring the concert that took place September 15, during a rainy day, Bocelli was accompanied by the New York Philharmonic, conducted by its music director Alan Gilbert, and the Westminster Symphonic Choir. He was also joined on stage by singers Celine Dion, Tony Bennett, Bryn Terfel, Ana María Martínez and Pretty Yende, instrumentalists Chris Botti, Andrea Griminelli and Nicola Benedetti, and producer David Foster.\n\nThe concert took place September 15, and was attended by 70,000 people, including Mayor Bloomberg, Sting and Donald Trump.\n\nTickets for the concert at Central Park were made available August 4, 2011, following Bocelli's performance on \"Today\", and the 60,000 tickets were sold out within the next few hours. The CD and DVD were released in over 70 countries, on November 15, 2011.\n\nIn November he performed \"More\" at the Alan Titchmarsh Show in the United Kingdom, and \"Dancing with the Stars\" in the United States, and \"Amazing Grace\" on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\".\n\nBocelli later made television appearances include BBC Breakfast and the televised concert, Children in need, at the MEN Arena, in Manchester, in the UK, and Good Morning America and The Talk, in the States, which aired in December.\n\nBocelli gave 5 concerts in the United States in December. In the meantime, the concert at Central Park, hosted by American journalist Paula Zahn, was airing throughout the United States and Canada, by PBS, on THIRTEEN's Great Performances series, and in Italy, by Rai 2 and Sky Uno.\n\nIn February 2012, Bocelli gave three Valentine concerts, including one at the Amway Center in Orlando Florida, setting the all time ticket sales record by besting the previous record set by pop singer Lady Gaga.\n\nIn November and December 2012, he returned to the States to perform in 6 concerts.\n\n\"Concerto: One Night in Central Park\" entered the \"Billboard\" 200 at No. 4 with 87,000 copies sold, becoming Bocelli's sixth top 10 effort, while \"My Christmas\", his 2009 album, climbed from No. 62 to 36, with 17,000 copies sold, up 83% from the previous week. On its second week, the album fell to No. 14, with nearly 65,000 copies sold, down 25%, while \"My Christmas\" fell to No. 50, with 23,000. copies. On its third week, \"Concerto\" returned to the top 10, jumping to No. 8, with 61,000 copies, down 6%, while \"My Christmas\" rebounded to No. 17 with 35,000 copies sold, making Bocelli the only artist with two albums in the top 20 that week. The following week, \"Concerto\" jumped two spots to No. 6, with 79,000 copies sold, up 14%, while Bocelli continued to be the only artist with two albums in the top 20 for a second consecutive week, as \"My Christmas\" also rose to No. 16, with 49,000 copies sold. In its fifth week of release the album sold 76,000 more copies, down 3%, sliding just two positions to No. 8 on the chart, while my Christmas fell to No. 19, with 48,000 copies sold, giving Bocelli yet another week with 2 albums in the Top 20. On its sixth week of release, the live album dropped to No. 13, while the Christmas album dropped to No. 36, slipping to No. 2 on the Top Pop Catalog Albums chart after spending 3 straight week a top the chart. Selling a total of 460,000 copies in less than 2 month in the States, Concerto was the 8th best selling album during the 2011 holiday season.\n\nThe album entered at No. 17 on the UK Albums Chart, spending the last 6 weeks of 2011 in the top 30 of the chart. With 154,800 copies sold by year end, it finished at No. 77 on the Top 100 Best Selling Albums of 2011 list. The album also topped the Classical Compilation Albums Chart of the Official Charts.\n\n"}
{"id": "11323981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11323981", "title": "Deeply Vale Festivals", "text": "Deeply Vale Festivals\n\nThe Deeply Vale Festivals were unique free festivals held near Bury in northwest England in 1976, 1977, 1978 and 1979 and at a different site in 1980 and 1981 They are regarded as significant events that united punk music into the festival scene. Anniversary festivals took place in March 2015 and September 2016 (two days).\n\nIn the 1970s Rochdale resident and associate of John Peel (through his links with the band Tractor) Chris Hewitt was one of the main organisers of the event between 1976 and 1978 along with residents of a commune further up Oldham Road in Rochdale. Hewitt's inspiration for Deeply Vale Festivals was partly triggered working on Bickershaw Festival with Jeremy Beadle in 1972 and an event at Rivington Pike in August 1976. Chris went on to produce many other festivals and concerts and start a record company Ozit/Dandelion Records.\n\nStarting with an audience of 300 camping for two days in 1976 watching space rockers Body and John Peel favourites Tractor, the festival grew to 3,000 in 1977 (bands including Andy McCluskey's Pegasus, a forerunner of OMD in 1977). By 1978 and 1979 there were 20,000 people watching bands and camping for six days.\n\nThe Home Office-sponsored body that reported on many pop festivals from the mid-1970s – Festival Welfare Services – said in a report on the 1978 that the 20,000 people event at Deeply Vale Festival \"was actually better organised than the large Bob Dylan concert at Blackbushe the same summer\"; \"In fact in 1978 it was a model for how festivals should be run\". It was the biggest free festival in England ending its annual run in the valley of Deeply Vale after four years in 1979.\n\nAs with the 1970s festivals, Deeply Vale hoped to bring together music of all styles, to create new styles and genres and maybe break a few. Since music seems to follow trends set in history by names such as the Beatles, the Kinks, Bob Dylan, the Rolling Stones, the Doors and many others who broke the musical mould of the 1950s and 1960s turning the times into a psychedelic outlook on life. Deeply Vale has been credited as a catalyst for many bands who have formed since the 1970s festivals. Amongst people who claim to have been in the audience and inspired to pursue a musical career include Andy Rourke of The Smiths, David Gedge from the Wedding Present, Dave Fielding, Mark Burgess and Reg Smithies from the Chameleons, Jimi Goodwin from the Doves, Boff Whalley from Chumbawamba Steve Cowen from the Mock Turtles and Ian Brown from the Stone Roses.\n\nThe Deeply Vale Festivals were the first of the hippie music festivals to mix punk bands on the bill in amongst festival stalwarts like Steve Hillage, Nik Turner, the Ruts, Misty in Roots, Tractor (who had already achieved some notoriety as a John Peel band), Here and Now and The Fall.\n\nThe Fall were regulars at the festival at a young age (and Mark E. Smith held the event in high esteem), and Durutti Column played their fourth ever gig on the Deeply Vale Festival stage. Both these bands were introduced by a young Tony Wilson who had just started his own record company and offered to help his friend Chris Hewitt by appearing at Deeply Vale in 1978.\n\nThe festival resumed on a smaller scale at Pickup Bank (Edgworth/Darwen) in 1980 and 1981.\n\nIn September 2009, two buildings associated with Deeply Vale Festivals, Factory Records, Tractor and John Peel – one building formerly Tractor Sound Studios in Heywood and one in Rochdale Tractor Music / Cargo Studios – had blue plaques unveiled to commemorate the important part the buildings played in the genealogy of rock music. The blue plaques campaign was put together by Peter Hook and Chris Hewitt.\n\nLuke Bainbridge (journalist and editor of the \"Observer Music Monthly\" and attendee of Deeply Vale Festivals as a youngster) said in the 2004 ITV documentary \"Truly, Madly, Deeply Vale\" that the festivals were far more organised than Glastonbury by 1978. In July 2007 the DVD \"Deeply Vale Festivals\" was released. It contains 3 hours 40 minutes of archive band performances and interviews and the 49-minute \"Truly, Madly, Deeply Vale\" film plus other rare interviews, crowd footage and band performances.\n\nA 272-page A4 book tracing the history of the four festivals in the Deeply Vale valley 1976/77/78/79, the two (Deeply Vale 1980 and 1981) festivals at Pickup Bank, the Rivington Pike Free Festivals 1976 and 1977, and the Manchester 1978 Rock Against Racism concerts was released in October 2014. The book came in a box set and contained eight hours of Deeply Vale related music spread over 6 CDs.\n\nFollowing the release of the documentary, there were plans to resurrect the festival in this century. One idea was to merge with relaunching the Bickershaw Festival to become the Deeply Vale Bickershaw Festival. In the end Deeply Vale happened again after the release of the 2014 box set.\n\nOn 20 March 2015, Deeply Vale Festival 2015 took place in Heywood with Steve Hillage, with Mark E Smith from The Fall there to watch him, plus other performances from Notsensibles, Nik Turner, Segs from The Ruts, Victor Brox, George Borowski, Andy T, Graham Massey and Graham Clark, Andy Sharrocks and Accident on the East Lancs, Wilful Damage, Physical Wrecks, Movement Banned and Brian Eastwood and Pie.\n\nTo mark the 40th anniversary of the first year of Deeply Vale 1976, on Saturday 17 and Sunday 18 September 2016 a festival was held at the Heywood Civic Centre in Heywood, including appearances by many of the artists who had played the original festivals: Steve Hillage, members of Here and Now and Gong, Nik Turner, Segs from The Ruts, The Drones, Victor Brox, Andy T, Mike Sweeney and the Salford Jets, Fast Cars, Andy Sharrocks and Accident on the East Lancs, Wilful Damage, Physical Wrecks, George Borowski and Gaynor Wilson with Jaki Windmill, Andy Bole, Potential Victims, Crude Oil Inc, Alchemist, Mudanzas and loads more. The festival weekend was captured on film and released as a beautiful artworked 3 DVD set.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40199782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40199782", "title": "Deon Swiggs", "text": "Deon Swiggs\n\nDeon William Swiggs (born 6 September 1986, Nelson, New Zealand) is the Christchurch City Councillor representing the Central ward. Prior to Swiggs being elected, he was most well known for his participation in Rebuild Christchurch, an organisation founded after the 2010 Canterbury earthquake.\n\nSwiggs was born in Nelson, New Zealand and is the oldest of 3 siblings. Until Swiggs was 5, he was raised at Parihaka Pa as a Christian. Swiggs was educated at Marlborough Boys' College where he was a sixth form prefect. After graduating in 2004, Swiggs joined the Royal New Zealand Navy in 2005 as a navigation officer. Swiggs left the Navy in 2008 to pursue a career in the business sector. In 2008, Swiggs worked as a real estate agent for Harcourts in New Plymouth before transferring to Christchurch in 2009. He left the company in 2010 to form Swiggs Consulting Limited. Later in 2010, Swiggs was offered the position of South Island Accounts Manager at AdzUp.\n\nAt the time of the 2010 Canterbury earthquake, Swiggs was working for AdzUp, two days later he founded Rebuild Christchurch, which collated information from a variety of sources and placed this information in an easy to understand format. Swiggs has been called one of the innovate new entrepreneurs born out of the Christchurch earthquakes. On 22 February 2011, Swiggs was in the AdzUp office located in the Christchurch CBD when the first earthquake struck, he left the building he was in, and helped other people with the aftermath of the earthquake.\n\nIn April 2011, Swiggs was made redundant from AdzUp due to the earthquakes. From this time, Swiggs worked full-time on RebuildChristchurch.co.nz and studied on the side. In 2012, Swiggs was nominated for Young New Zealander of the Year. and was named alongside Roger Sutton and Bob Parker as a leader in the Canterbury Rebuild.\n\nSwiggs was accepted into a placement at the Christchurch Polytechnic Institute of Technology in February 2013 into a Bachelor of Applied Management. In March 2013, Swiggs Graduated from CPIT with Bachelor of Applied Management Majoring in Sales and Marketing and Graduate Diploma in Innovation and Entrepreneurship. \"The Press\" reported on 27 April 2013 that Swiggs was contemplating running for Councillor of the Christchurch City Council.\n\nOn 26 August 2013, Swiggs announced he had put his nomination forward for the Christchurch East by-election. On 22 September 2013 Swiggs found his nomination was unsuccessful. Poto Williams was selected and elected Member of Parliament.\n\nIn July 2015, Swiggs and Christchurch broadcaster Chris Lynch along with award-winning film maker Gerard Smyth spent a week interviewing various citizens of Christchurch about their views on the Christchurch Earthquake Recovery Act draft transition recovery plan, which expired in April 2016. As of 28 July, the video has been watched more than 30,000 times.\n\nPresently, Swiggs is the chair of The Rebuild Build Christchurch Foundation, director of Rebuild Christchurch, and a founding trustee on the Canterbury Insurance Advocacy Service funded by council to advocate for people with insurance issues.\n\nOn 31 May 2016, Swiggs announced that he would stand for Christchurch City Council as an independent in the newly created Christchurch Central ward in the 2016 local body elections. On 8 October 2016, he was elected to the council.\n\nSwiggs has worked on the following projects;\n\n\nSwiggs is the first openly out Christchurch councilor who supports the LGBTIQ generously. \n\n"}
{"id": "33920120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33920120", "title": "Digital Archaeology (exhibition)", "text": "Digital Archaeology (exhibition)\n\nDigital Archaeology, unveiled in London as part of Internet Week Europe 2010, was described as 'the first ever archaeological dig of the Internet'. The event showcased a selection of groundbreaking websites from the early days of the web, congruously displayed on the hardware and software they were designed on and for.\n\nThe Digital Archaeology exhibition, organised by Jim Boulton, made its debut at Internet Week Europe 2010. The show celebrates the golden era of the website but more importantly, it seeks to document the formative years of digital culture and raise the profile of web archiving.\n\nThe debut exhibition showcased 15 groundbreaking websites and featured a keynote presentation by Helen Hockx-Yu, Web Archiving Programme Manager at The British Library. Such was the level of interest, Boulton was invited to run it again at Internet Week New York 2011 in an expanded format, where it attracted 12,000 visitors. The New York show was sponsored by Google and featured a keynote presentation by Abigail Grotke, Web Archiving Team Lead at the Library of Congress. The event was held again, in a reduced form, as part of Digital Shoreditch 2013, where it was visited by the team at CERN responsible for restoring the first website.\n\nCurator Jim Boulton said of the importance of the event \"Today, when almost a quarter of the earth's population is online, this artistic, commercial and social history is being wiped from the face of the earth. Unless we act now to archive our recent digital past, we are in real danger of losing the building blocks of the web that have so shaped modern culture.\"\n\nDigital Archaeology featured as a key part of a larger exhibition, called Digital Revolution debuting at The Barbican in 2014 and now at the National Museum of Science and Technology in Stockholm.\n\nThe Project was the first website to connect and share documents on personal computers via the internet. It was published by Tim Berners-Lee at CERN in 1991 and used HTML 1.0. Its first web address was http://info.cern.ch/hypertext/WWW/TheProject.html, which described the WorldWideWeb project.\n\nNo screenshots were kept of the very first website. The website featured at Digital Archaeology is believed to be the earliest available copy, from 1992.\n\nThe Antirom art collective was formed in London in 1994 as a “protest against ill-conceived point-and-click interfaces grafted onto repurposed old content repackaged as multimedia.” With the radical vision to explore interactivity as a media in its own right rather than as an interface to content, Antirom changed the face of interactive design. The original experiments were funded by a grant from the Arts Council of Great Britain. Design agency Tomato contributed graphically, and the band Underworld provided the music. Developed rapidly by multiple authors, Antirom's interactive experiments often revolved around a single idea, such as sound mixing or scrolling. Although always entertaining, these playful, interactive “toys” could deliberately confound, forcing the user into an active relationship with the media. Built in Director 5 (Shockwave).\n\nFounded by Dan Pelson, Tom Livacarri and Carey Earle in 1995, Word.com was one of the earliest and most influential e-zines. Unlike many web publications of the time, which simply re-created the print magazine format online, Word.com was a true multimedia experience, incorporating games, audio, and chat. Its DIY ethos and first-person conversational style immediately appealed its audience of “underachieving sub-geniuses,” and the site was soon receiving 95,000 page views a day. Its authentic content (notably the Shockwave game SiSSYFiGHT, often cited as one of the earliest examples of massively multiplayer online games) and Yoshi Sodeoka's icon-driven design influenced hundreds of other sites, yet it was never a commercial success. But Word.com was also far from commercially naïve — a pioneer in the use of online advertising, it was the first website to integrate paid content for branded microsites. The site used HTML2.0, Director 5 & RealAudio.\n\nRazorfish became one of the world's most established digital agencies partly because of a bouncing blue dot. Created out of an apartment in the East Village, its homepage utilized the server-push GIF-animation capabilities of Netscape Navigator 1.1 to create the first animated website — crashing many a browser in the process. Razorfish founders Jeffrey Dachis and Craig Kanarick followed this milestone with one of the first online art galleries, The Blue Dot. Created “for our souls” rather than commercial gain, The Blue Dot was a playground of art, design, photography, and provocation, showcasing work by artists like Ryan McGinness, Spencer Tunick, and Jill Greenberg. It notoriously included such delights as “The Society for the Recapture of Virginity” and “Dick for a Day.”\n\nThe Blue Dot is now in the permanent collection of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. The site used HTML2.0, Director 5 & RealAudio.\n\nDesigner, programmer, technologist, artist, professor, author: John Maeda is all of these and more. Now president of the Rhode Island School of Design, the former associate research director of MIT's Media Lab has also enjoyed a long and productive commercial partnership with Japanese cosmetic brand Shiseido. Commissioned to accompany Shiseido's orchid e-commerce service, John Maeda's CyberOrchids, built as a Java applet, was one of the first e-card tools. The site used HTML 2.0, Java.\n\nWebby Award-winner and “the first internet application designed by artists,” The Web Stalker is an experimental browser developed by British web-art activists I/O/D. Working on the principle that the browsers of the day (Netscape Navigator 4.01 and Internet Explorer 3.0) were built to fulfil commercial imperatives determined by advertisers and software corporations rather than the information needs of the individual, The Web Stalker browser stripped out the superfluous, so only the raw text, links, and meta data remained. Built in Director 6.\n\nUsing Director 6 software, Noodle Box was a series of computer game like interactive experiments. Created by Play/Create and designed by Daniel Brown, the site featured a landscape of building blocks, inspired by the computer games of the 1980s. The site was set apart from many others of its time due to the playful nature of the site. Built in Director 6.\n\nNoodlebox appears in the San Francisco MOMA and the Victoria and Albert Museum (V&A).\n\nThe Head-space Project, created and curated by Jason Holland and Felix Velarde and produced by Head New Media, was a collaborative creative space and a spawning ground for multiple interactive projects such as the Brixton-based community website Urban 75 and John Lundberg's CircleMakers.org but was perhaps most famous for the interactive game Slap a Spice Girl. The site used both Director & HTML 3.\n\nK10k, also known as “The Designers’ Lunchbox,” was a global digital design portal. The site was the result of a chance meeting online between Toke Nygaard and Michael Schmidt. Nygaard and Schmidt gained inspiration from sites like DigitalThread.com and Shift.jp.org but wanted to create something that was “fresher and funkier, and updated every single week.”\n\nThe site was built by Cuban Council and is built in HTML 4.0.\n\nLess Rain was founded in 1997 by Vassilios Alexiou and Lars Eberle. The name they chose for their company not only reflects London's temperate climate but also their design philosophy. Clean, natural, playful and unpredictable. Kicking against the vector graphic trend dominating interaction design at the time, their early work had a hand-crafted feel, driven by photography. The first site they designed for themselves, nicknamed Walter The Fish, typified their approach.Walter was a grouper, bought at Billingsgate Fish Market in 1998. Photographed at five stages of consumption, he provided the navigation system for Less Rain's website. Those visiting on fast connection speeds were served the full fish. Slower speeds were offered the bare bones. Built in HTML 3.0, Director 6.0 (Shockwave)\n\nFounded in 1994, Deepend was one of the first true web design agencies. The Web's slow connection speeds, limited fonts and restricted colour palette deterred most designers. Gary Lockton, David Streek and Simon Waterfall were the exception. While their contemporaries were exploring the technical capabilities of the web, Deepend defined its aesthetic potential. Deepend websites for VW Beetle, Hoover and the Design Museum in ’98, ’99 and 2000 set the standard the rest of the industry aspired to. Incorporating great design, audio, video and games, they pushed the medium way beyond its supposed limits. Built in HTML 3.0, Flash 3.0, QuickTime 3.0\n\nStarting off life as a comic strip in 1996, Dutchman Han Hoogerbrugge began publishing his Modern Living / Neurotica animations to his website as a series of looping GIFs in ’98. Soon afterward, he progressed to Flash, which introduced an interactive element to his art. Describing his work as an ongoing self-portrait, the central theme of Hoogerbrugge’s work is his battle with modern life. The repetitive, jerky nature of his animations that so accurately reflect his neurosis are actually a result of the bandwidth restrictions of 1998. A 28k modem necessitates the short, low-frame-rate animations he has become famous for. The series concluded in 2001 when the 100th episode was published. Subsequent work includes the non-linear interactive story “Hotel,” developed for the Submarine Channel. The site is built using animated GIFs and Flash 3.\n\nWhen Yugo Nakamura unveiled his MONO*crafts site at yugop.com in 1999, it made an entire industry stop and draw a breath. One of the first designers to embrace and exploit the potential of ActionScript, Nakamura's interactive environments were very fluid, calming, and natural. Previously a gardener, he quotes an old Japanese saying: “Rather than beautifying one’s own creation, make better the environment that surrounds it” — in other words, better to make a beautiful user experience than a beautiful website. Built in Flash 4.\n\nIn 1999, Jonni Nitro was the most exciting animation on the Web. Centred on a female secret agent on a quest against an unnamed terrorist threat, Tubatomic's G-Woman took its visual cues from graphic novels like Frank Miller's Sin City. Using a highly stylised video-to-vector process, the animated series pushed Flash well beyond its apparent capabilities. Built in Flash 4.\n\nFounded by Peter Kang and Gene Na in 1999, one of Kioken's early websites was for the R & B singer Brandy, and a string of entertainment clients followed, most notably including Jennifer Lopez, Motown, and Bad Boy Records. Criticized by some for a lack of usability, contrary to popular opinion, Kioken was resolute in its belief that audiences raised in the video game era were practiced in deciphering interfaces — in fact, they took pleasure in the experience. Taking their cue from TV and video games, Kioken's websites had a depth and emotional quality absent from their counterparts. Full-bleed images, parallax movement, and floating palettes were used with great effect, all coming together beautifully on Barneys.com. According to Na, it's simple: “You have to think beyond the limits of a page.” Built in Flash 4.\n\nLateral was founded in 1997 by Jon Bains and Simon Crab. Quickly joined by David Jones and David Hart, they were already digital veterans, having worked at Obsolete since 1994. Their first account was Levi's Europe, an account they retained for a decade. The Levi Twisted Denim site, twists the browser, opening multiple windows and creating a usability nightmare in the process. Bravo to them. Built in HTML 4.01, Director 8.0 (Shockwave), RealPlayer 4.0\n\nJoshua Davis wanted to write and illustrate children's books. After his first two attempts received two rejection letters, a friend told him, “You don’t need them anymore — there’s this whole internet thing happening. You can self-publish.” Davis went out and bought a book on HTML and changed the face of interactive design forever. PrayStation was Joshua Davis's sketchbook — an experimental personal site of digital exploration, a place where success and failure were all documented, learned from and generously shared. Lessons weren’t all that were given away: PrayStation was one of the first sites to provide its source files free. Fueled by his obsessive nature, the site evolved at an astonishing rate, and Davis built a devoted audience and a deserved reputation as the most exciting web designer on the planet. Built in Flash 4.\n\nMTV2's BAFTA award-winning website designed by Bradley Cho-Smith and Mickey Stretton and built by agency Digit and was known for marking the first time the creative started with the web and led the TV and print campaigns. It was built largely in Flash, and exploited multiple 3D-authoring tools like Vecta 3D, 3D Studio Max, and Swift 3D.\n\nThe site's styling is draws inspiration from classic first-person shooter games like Doom or Quake, and there are more subtle culture references to classic video games and science-fiction movies throughout. One example being the rise of a faceted block that exits the screen in homage to the Millennium Falcon from Star Wars.\n\nBuilt in Flash 8, Vectra 3D, 3D Studio Max, Swift 3D.\n\nHi-ReS! leapt onto our screens in 1999 following the launch of their experimental website soulbath.com, “an exhibition of anti-banners.” Twelve million page views later, the site caught the attention of the film director Darren Aronofsky, and he gave founders Alexandra Jugovic and Florian Schmitt their first commercial project, building the website for his new film Requiem for a Dream. Like all Hi-ReS! film websites since, the result is much more than a trailer, it's a cinematic gem in its own right. Requiem for a Dream is about addiction, compulsion, and inevitable descent. The website investigates similar web-based behaviors, particularly online gambling and the “morbid patterns the medium is able to create in its users.” As the user descends deeper into the malfunctioning website, it gradually deteriorates and finally falls apart, ejecting the visitor in its death throes. Built in Flash 4.\n\nBang & Olufsen's first global ecommerce site, created by Large Design, was described by the Financial Times as \"the most beautiful site in the world\". The site was updated monthly and drove users to store via a series of interactive product demonstrations that recreated the magic of B&O products. The website uses PHP 3, HTML 4.0 and Flash 4.\n\nAirside was founded in 1998 by Fred Deakin, Nat Hunter and Alex Maclean. The playful style they became known for is perhaps best illustrated by the website they created for the Barbican exhibition JAM: Tokyo-London. The exhibition showcased the work of visual designers from both cities. Airside's website served as both the website for the show and an exhibit in its own right. A crowd of animated characters represented the exhibitors. Clicking on them revealed their work, choosing a discipline highlighted the appropriate characters in an entertaining way. Japanese designers danced on request, fashion designers removed their clothes. The site was nominated for a BAFTA. Built in Director 8.0 (Shockwave), HTML 4.01\n\nThe post dot-com world was a more serious place. Many agencies had gone out of business, those that hadn’t, had a decade of experience to perfect their craft. Standards were higher. Born out of the ashes of Deepend in 2001, De-construct was one of the agencies that set those standards. Instead of reinventing communication design, they recognised its solid foundations and built on them. No site expressed this more clearly than the typographically driven site they created for Frost Design. Embraced by the entire design industry, it was this site that convinced many graphic design agencies to take the web more seriously. Built in Flash 5.\n\nWhen ad agency Crispin Porter + Bogusky wanted its creation for Burger King brought to life online, it turned to long-term collaborator The Barbarian Group. Its response was to create an interactive video-based site that allowed visitors to control the chicken via their keyboards. Playing on transgressive webcam culture, more than 300 different clips were tagged with all manner of commands, and, a year before YouTube existed and six years before the Tipp-Ex bear, a much-imitated format was born.”. Built in Flash MX.\n\nWhen Vodafone commissioned North Kingdom to develop a website that depicts a vision of the future of mobile communications, it did so with an open brief. North Kingdom was not only involved with the design and execution of the site, but it also collaborated on what the future might look like. And it did so with remarkable foresight, predicting the prevalence of geo-location technology, electronic paper, foldable screens, tablet devices, and the dominance of touch-screen interfaces, three years before the launch of the iPhone.”. Built in Flash MX.\n\nA hybrid of HAL 9000 and a mixing deck, Firstborn’s Gift Mixer 3000 for Borders is Artificial Intelligence with a sense of humor, a “living, breathing, walking, talking, gift-matching machine.”. Built in Flash MX.\n\nForsman & Bodenfors's groundbreaking website for IKEA consists of six kitchens frozen in time and space. In one, a champagne bottle erupts and the bubbles hang in midair. In another, steam suspends inanimately above a frying pan. As visitors explore the 3D panoramic views of each kitchen, they are treated to Matrix-style special effects. Combining bullet time and kitchens is about as ambitious as it gets. The IKEA Dream Kitchen website is possibly the most awarded website of all time. Built in Flash 8.0\n\nConstantly searching the web for new occurrences of the phrases “I feel” and “I am feeling” and recording the subsequent adjective, We Feel Fine is a barometer for the world's emotions. By categorizing these feelings by the age, gender, and location of the author and beautifully displaying the results as individual colored dots, the site becomes “an artwork authored by everyone.” Are women more emotional than men? Do our feelings change as we age? Are people happier when the sun is shining? Jonathan Harris and Sep Kamvar's We Feel Fine answers these questions through millions of individual stories yet reduces them to a data set, dehumanizing us and humanizing the machine in the process. Built in Java, Perl, Processing.\n\nLarge Design created a series of websites for Agent Provocateur between 2004 and 2007. They were cited in Vogue magazine as being the “sexiest sites on the web.” Starring Maggie Gyllenhaal, the 2007 website was based on one of the most neglected areas of popular culture, the trashy novel. In the early twentieth century, pulp fiction was churned out in every imaginable genre, and their covers and titles were intense, exploitative, sexy, and graphic featuring some of the most provocative imagery of the time. McHarg reimagined this cover art for Agent Provocateur, retaining the intensity but ensuring women were portrayed in positions of strength. In the words of Joe Corré, “The website does more than sell; it’s about telling a story, taking people on a personal adventure.”. Built in Flash 8, HTML 4.01, PHP 3.\n\nLong-term client Orange approached Poke to communicate the “Unlimited” message it was using to unify its mobile data and broadband offers. Poke's response was to build the world's first never-ending webpage — one that visitors could never reach the bottom of. Even more impressive, the perpetually extending page is a rich collection of animations, mini-games, and interactive toys and appears to never repeat itself. This playful and sharable idea was also provocative, challenging people to try to “beat it,” some resting books on their keyboards overnight in the endeavor. Built in Flash CS3.\n\nVoyeurism is part of human nature: We are fascinated by other people, and the web has given us the unchecked ability to spy on others without censure. The HBO Voyeur advertising campaign plays on this shared guilty pleasure. Created by BBDO to demonstrate the evolution of the HBO brand across multiple platforms, the campaign consisted of a four-minute film projected onto the side of an apartment block in New York and original content distributed across the social web. All held together by a highly sophisticated website developed by Big Spaceship, this master class in multichannel storytelling was the final nail in the coffin for the stand-alone 30-second ad. Built in Flash CS3.\n\n"}
{"id": "15521588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15521588", "title": "Fall 2008 fashion weeks", "text": "Fall 2008 fashion weeks\n\nMajor fall 2008 fashion weeks were held in New York City, London, Paris, and Milan during February and March 2008.\n\nThe Fall 2008 New York Fashion Week, officially called Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week, was held between February 1 and February 8, 2008.\n\nThis list includes shows on the official schedule () and those reviewed at style.com ().\nSource: official fashion week schedule.\n\nSource: Official fashion week schedule. Some dates to be confirmed.\n\nFall '08 collections are shown from March 7 - March 14\n\nMercedes-Benz Fashion Week at Smashbox Studios\n\nTHE GREEN INITIATIVE Humanitarian Fashion Show\n\nSource: fashionweekla.com calendar\n\nIn 2008, there were numerous celebrity fashion designers showcasing their designs at LA's Fashion Week. Many people believed that, because of this new surge of \"celebs-as-trendsetters\", some fashion regulars and legitimate designers did not attend the 2008 fashion event. Instead, attendees turned their attention to the designs of \"The Hills\" star Lauren Conrad, who debuted her collection during the week, Nicky Hilton, and The Pussycat Dolls.\n\nSue Wong was one of the designers that openly voiced her opinion about celebrity designers. Wong calls the emerging trend \"absolutely bogus.\" Wong is usually a regular at the Mercedes-Benz LA Fashion Week, but decided not to show in 2008, claiming she wanted to concentrate on doing something \"different.\"\n\"Sure, every celebrity and his brother wants to be a fashion designer\", said Wong, who has been designing since 1968. \"It's not like anybody can pick it up and do it. It's a science. You need to know fit and construction.\" Wong has also claimed that the celebrities are just capitalizing on their \"15 minutes of fame.\" Normally, up-and-coming designers would not get the kind of exposures celebrities get for their clothing lines.\n\nLauren Conrad has tried to defend herself against the criticisms and pressures put on her before her fashion launch. Conrad, who has trained at the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising in Los Angeles, said the additional pressure thrust upon her Fashion Week debut made her nervous while working on the line. She described it as \"California chic\", basing this season on a recent trip to Paris reflected in simple, clean pieces accessorized with berets, netting, leather gloves, bows and lace.\"I will probably never have the respect I want in the fashion industry, but I can work hard every day to try and prove myself\", Conrad said. \"Can I really be criticized for taking advantage on an opportunity that allows me to have what I've always wanted?\"\n\nWong still voiced her skepticism. \"Let's see whether she can survive and thrive. It takes so much dedication\", she said. \"You gotta really pay your dues to be a serious artist.\" A review by Jenny Peters of Fashion Wire Daily criticized her debut line, writing, \"There was absolutely nothing new or innovative in her collection.\"\n"}
{"id": "43519669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43519669", "title": "First Tikal-Calakmul War", "text": "First Tikal-Calakmul War\n\nThe Tikal-Calakmul Wars were a series of wars between Tikal and Calakmul. The First Tikal-Calakmul War was the first of these wars.\nDuring this and following conflicts in Petén vassal states like Naranjo and Dos Pilas were often used.\nThough Yaxchilan was in the war it only had a minor presence at the beginning.\n\nIn 537 the Ajaws of Bonampak, Lakamtuun, and Calakmul (Calakmul) were captured by Yaxchilan.\nBonampak and Lakamtuun remained under the control of Yaxchilan but in retaliation Calakmul conquered the latter. This gave the polity a strategic position with territory in boath the east and the west of Tikal.\nCalakmul was the largest Classic Maya city ever, containing around 6500 buildings in the initial 30 square kilometre area. The population density in the urban core may have been 1000/km2. Greater Calakmul, consisting of around 122 km2, probably had a density of around 420/km2. Together this would count for a total urban population of 50.000 inhabitants. Twenty secondary sites were found within the Calakmul kingdom, raising the population to around 200.000. There appear to have been smaller third- and fourth-level sites. When all populations are summed up, the total population of the Calakmul Kingdom may have been between 1.5- and 1.75 million people. This appears to be a larger population than the kingdom of Tikal.\n\nBy 546 (9.5.11.11.18 on the Maya calendar) Naranjo had been conquered by Calakmul; during this time Aj Wosal was appointed ruler of Naranjo.\nIn 561 (9.6.6.15.17) the ruler known as Sky Witness was crowned at Los Alcranes. His reign began the Kaan dynasty in Calakmul.\nSky Witness played a major role in the politics of the Maya. He forged an alliance with Caracol, which had previously been a major ally of Tikal.\nIn 562 (9.6.7.16.2) Wak Chan K’awiil, Ajaw of Tikal, was captured and sacrificed by soldiers from Caracol during a raid directly into the city of Tikal. His death ended the reign of his dynasty in Tikal.\nIn 564 (9.6.9.16.12) troops from Tikal had a victory in Caracol, but it was short lived.\n\nIn 572 (9.6.18.0.14) the year Sky Witness died Tikal was defeated.\n\nThe political and economic implications of defeat by Calakmul had a major impact on Tikal. South of Tikal city but still in the kingdom was Mutul, Mutul actually prospered slightly from the war. Tikal remained one of the most powerful cities in Peten, even in the world, but having lost much of its importance power partially transferred to Mutul.\nIn 695 (9.13.2.14.19) 123 years later Tikal would turn the tables in Calakmul.\n"}
{"id": "58009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58009", "title": "Good Friday", "text": "Good Friday\n\nGood Friday is a Christian holiday commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus and his death at Calvary. It is observed during Holy Week as part of the Paschal Triduum on the Friday preceding Easter Sunday, and may coincide with the Jewish observance of Passover. It is also known as Holy Friday, Great Friday, and Black Friday.\n\nMembers of many Christian denominations, including the Oriental Orthodox, Eastern Orthodox, Catholic, Anglican, Lutheran, Methodist, and Reformed traditions, observe Good Friday with fasting and church services.\n\nThe date of Good Friday varies from one year to the next on both the Gregorian and Julian calendars. Eastern and Western Christianity disagree over the computation of the date of Easter and therefore of Good Friday. Good Friday is a widely instituted legal holiday around the world, including in most Western countries and 12 U.S. states. Some countries, such as Germany, have laws prohibiting certain acts, such as dancing and horse racing, that are seen as profaning the solemn nature of the day.\n\nA common folk etymology incorrectly claims \"Good Friday\" is a corruption of \"God Friday\". The term in fact comes from the sense \"pious, holy\" of the word \"good\". The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" also gives other examples with the sense \"of a day or season observed as holy by the church\" as an archaic sense of \"good\" (\"good\", adj. 8c) as in \"good tide\" meaning \"Christmas\" or \"Shrove Tuesday\", and \"Good Wednesday\" meaning the Wednesday in Holy Week.\n\nIn German-speaking countries, Good Friday is generally referred to as \"Karfreitag\" (\"Kar\" from Old High German \"kara\"‚ \"bewail\", \"grieve\"‚ \"mourn\", Freitag for \"Friday\"): Mourning Friday. The \"Kar\" prefix is a cognate of the English word \"care\" in the sense of cares and woes; it meant mourning. The day is also known as \"Stiller Freitag\" (\"Silent Friday\") and \"Hoher Freitag\" (\"High Friday, Holy Friday\"). In the Nordic countries it is called \"The Long Friday\". In Greek, Polish and Hungarian, Good Friday is generally referred to as \"Great Friday\" (\"Μεγάλη Περασκευή\", \"Wielki Piątek\", \"Nagypéntek\").\n\nAccording to the accounts in the Gospels, the royal soldiers, guided by Jesus' disciple Judas Iscariot, arrested Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. Judas received money (30 pieces of silver) () for betraying Jesus and told the guards that whomever he kisses is the one they are to arrest. Following his arrest, Jesus was taken to the house of Annas, the father-in-law of the high priest, Caiaphas. There he was interrogated with little result and sent bound to Caiaphas the high priest where the Sanhedrin had assembled ().\n\nConflicting testimony against Jesus was brought forth by many witnesses, to which Jesus answered nothing. Finally the high priest adjured Jesus to respond under solemn oath, saying \"I adjure you, by the Living God, to tell us, are you the Anointed One, the Son of God?\" Jesus testified ambiguously, \"You have said it, and in time you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of the Almighty, coming on the clouds of Heaven.\" The high priest condemned Jesus for blasphemy, and the Sanhedrin concurred with a sentence of death (). Peter, waiting in the courtyard, also denied Jesus three times to bystanders while the interrogations were proceeding just as Jesus had predicted.\n\nIn the morning, the whole assembly brought Jesus to the Roman governor Pontius Pilate under charges of subverting the nation, opposing taxes to Caesar, and making himself a king (). Pilate authorized the Jewish leaders to judge Jesus according to their own law and execute sentencing; however, the Jewish leaders replied that they were not allowed by the Romans to carry out a sentence of death ().\n\nPilate questioned Jesus and told the assembly that there was no basis for sentencing. Upon learning that Jesus was from Galilee, Pilate referred the case to the ruler of Galilee, King Herod, who was in Jerusalem for the Passover Feast. Herod questioned Jesus but received no answer; Herod sent Jesus back to Pilate. Pilate told the assembly that neither he nor Herod found Jesus to be guilty; Pilate resolved to have Jesus whipped and released (). Under the guidance of the chief priests, the crowd asked for Barabbas, who had been imprisoned for committing murder during an insurrection. Pilate asked what they would have him do with Jesus, and they demanded, \"Crucify him\" (). Pilate's wife had seen Jesus in a dream earlier that day, and she forewarned Pilate to \"have nothing to do with this righteous man\" (). Pilate had Jesus flogged and then brought him out to the crowd to release him. The chief priests informed Pilate of a new charge, demanding Jesus be sentenced to death \"because he claimed to be God's son.\" This possibility filled Pilate with fear, and he brought Jesus back inside the palace and demanded to know from where he came ().\nComing before the crowd one last time, Pilate declared Jesus innocent and washed his own hands in water to show he had no part in this condemnation. Nevertheless, Pilate handed Jesus over to be crucified in order to forestall a riot () and ultimately to keep his job. The sentence written was \"Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews.\" Jesus carried his cross to the site of execution (assisted by Simon of Cyrene), called the \"place of the Skull\", or \"Golgotha\" in Hebrew and in Latin \"Calvary\". There he was crucified along with two criminals ().\n\nJesus agonized on the cross for six hours. During his last three hours on the cross, from noon to 3 pm, darkness fell over the whole land. Jesus spoke from the cross, quoting the messianic Psalm 22: \"My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?\"\n\nWith a loud cry, Jesus gave up his spirit. There was an earthquake, tombs broke open, and the curtain in the Temple was torn from top to bottom. This tear, according to Christian tradition, signified a removal of restriction of the common Jews from the Temple's \"Holiest of Holies\", and that God's people now could, themselves, communicate directly with their advocate before God, Jesus the Christ, rather than needing the Temple's High Priest as an intercessor. The centurion on guard at the site of crucifixion declared, \"Truly this was God's Son!\" ()\n\nJoseph of Arimathea, a member of the Sanhedrin and secret follower of Jesus, who had not consented to his condemnation, went to Pilate to request the body of Jesus (). Another secret follower of Jesus and member of the Sanhedrin named Nicodemus brought about a hundred-pound weight mixture of spices and helped wrap the body of Jesus (). Pilate asked confirmation from the centurion of whether Jesus was dead (). A soldier pierced the side of Jesus with a lance causing blood and water to flow out (), and the centurion informed Pilate that Jesus was dead ().\n\nJoseph of Arimathea took Jesus' body, wrapped it in a clean linen shroud, and placed it in his own new tomb that had been carved in the rock () in a garden near the site of crucifixion. Nicodemus () also brought 75 pounds of myrrh and aloes, and placed them in the linen with the body, in keeping with Jewish burial customs (). They rolled a large rock over the entrance of the tomb (). Then they returned home and rested, because Shabbat had begun at sunset (). Matt. 28:1 \"After the Shabbat, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb\". i.e. \"After the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week...\". \"He is not here; he has risen, just as he said...\".(Matt. 28:6) On the third day, which is now known as Easter Sunday (or Pascha), Jesus rose from the dead.\n\nByzantine Christians (Eastern Christians who follow the Rite of Constantinople: Orthodox Christians and Greek-Catholics) call this day \"Great and Holy Friday\", or simply \"Great Friday\".\n\nBecause the sacrifice of Jesus through his crucifixion is commemorated on this day, the Divine Liturgy (the sacrifice of bread and wine) is never celebrated on Great Friday, except when this day coincides with the Great Feast of the Annunciation, which falls on the fixed date of 25 March (for those churches which follow the traditional Julian Calendar, 25 March currently falls on 7 April of the modern Gregorian Calendar). Also on Great Friday, the clergy no longer wear the purple or red that is customary throughout Great Lent, but instead don black vestments. There is no \"stripping of the altar\" on Holy and Great Thursday as in the West; instead, all of the church hangings are changed to black, and will remain so until the Divine Liturgy on Great Saturday.\n\nThe faithful revisit the events of the day through public reading of specific Psalms and the Gospels, and singing hymns about Christ's death. Rich visual imagery and symbolism as well as stirring hymnody are remarkable elements of these observances. In the Orthodox understanding, the events of Holy Week are not simply an annual commemoration of past events, but the faithful actually participate in the death and resurrection of Jesus.\n\nEach hour of this day is the new suffering and the new effort of the expiatory suffering of the Savior. And the echo of this suffering is already heard in every word of our worship service – unique and incomparable both in the power of tenderness and feeling and in the depth of the boundless compassion for the suffering of the Savior. The Holy Church opens before the eyes of believers a full picture of the redeeming suffering of the Lord beginning with the bloody sweat in the Garden of Gethsemane up to the crucifixion on Golgotha. Taking us back through the past centuries in thought, the Holy Church brings us to the foot of the cross of Christ erected on Golgotha, and makes us present among the quivering spectators of all the torture of the Savior.\nGreat and Holy Friday is observed as a strict fast, and adult Byzantine Christians are expected to abstain from all food and drink the entire day to the extent that their health permits. \"On this Holy day neither a meal is offered nor do we eat on this day of the crucifixion. If someone is unable or has become very old [or is] unable to fast, he may be given bread and water after sunset. In this way we come to the holy commandment of the Holy Apostles not to eat on Great Friday.\"\n\nThe Byzantine Christian observance of Holy and Great Friday, which is formally known as The Order of Holy and Saving Passion of our Lord Jesus Christ, begins on Thursday night with the Matins of the Twelve Passion Gospels. Scattered throughout this Matins service are twelve readings from all four of the Gospels which recount the events of the Passion from the Last Supper through the Crucifixion and burial of Jesus. Some churches have a candelabrum with twelve candles on it, and after each Gospel reading one of the candles is extinguished.\nThe first of these twelve readings is the longest Gospel reading of the liturgical year, and is a concatenation from all four Gospels. Just before the sixth Gospel reading, which recounts Jesus being nailed to the cross, a large cross is carried out of the sanctuary by the priest, accompanied by incense and candles, and is placed in the center of the nave (where the congregation gathers)\"Sēmeron Kremātai Epí Xýlou\":\n\nToday He who hung the earth upon the waters is hung upon the Cross \"(three times)\".<br>He who is King of the angels is arrayed in a crown of thorns.<br>He who wraps the Heavens in clouds is wrapped in the purple of mockery. <br>He who in Jordan set Adam free receives blows upon His face.<br>The Bridegroom of the Church is transfixed with nails. <br>The Son of the Virgin is pierced with a spear.<br>We venerate Thy Passion, O Christ \"(three times)\".<br>Show us also Thy glorious Resurrection.\nThe readings are:\n\n\nDuring the service, all come forward to kiss the feet of Christ on the cross. After the Canon, a brief, moving hymn, \"The Wise Thief\" is chanted by singers who stand at the foot of the cross in the center of the nave. The service does not end with the First Hour, as usual, but with a special dismissal by the priest:\n\nMay Christ our true God, Who for the salvation of the world endured spitting, and scourging, and buffeting, and the Cross, and death, through the intercessions of His most pure Mother, of our holy and God-bearing fathers, and of all the saints, have mercy on us and save us, for He is good and the Lover of mankind.\n\nThe next day, in the forenoon on Friday, all gather again to pray the Royal Hours, a special expanded celebration of the Little Hours (including the First Hour, Third Hour, Sixth Hour, Ninth Hour and Typica) with the addition of scripture readings (Old Testament, Epistle and Gospel) and hymns about the Crucifixion at each of the Hours (some of the material from the previous night is repeated). This is somewhat more festive in character, and derives its name of \"Royal\" from both the fact that the Hours are served with more solemnity than normal, commemorating Christ the King who humbled himself for the salvation of mankind, and also from the fact that this service was in the past attended by the Emperor and his court.\n\nIn the afternoon, around 3 pm, all gather for the Vespers of the Taking-Down from the Cross, commemorating the Deposition from the Cross. The Gospel reading is a concatenation taken from all four of the Gospels. During the service, the body of Christ (the \"soma\") is removed from the cross, as the words in the Gospel reading mention Joseph of Arimathea, wrapped in a linen shroud, and taken to the altar in the sanctuary. Near the end of the service an \"epitaphios\" or \"winding sheet\" (a cloth embroidered with the image of Christ prepared for burial) is carried in procession to a low table in the nave which represents the Tomb of Christ; it is often decorated with an abundance of flowers. The epitaphios itself represents the body of Jesus wrapped in a burial shroud, and is a roughly full-size cloth icon of the body of Christ. Then the priest may deliver a homily and everyone comes forward to venerate the epitaphios. In the Slavic practice, at the end of Vespers, Compline is immediately served, featuring a special \"Canon of the Crucifixion of our Lord and the Lamentation of the Most Holy Theotokos\" by Symeon the Logothete.\n\nOn Friday night, the Matins of Holy and Great Saturday, a unique service known as The Lamentation at the Tomb (\"Epitáphios Thrēnos\") is celebrated. This service is also sometimes called \"Jerusalem Matins\". Much of the service takes place around the tomb of Christ in the center of the nave.\n\nA unique feature of the service is the chanting of the Lamentations or Praises (\"Enkōmia\"), which consist of verses chanted by the clergy interspersed between the verses of Psalm 119 (which is, by far, the longest psalm in the Bible). The \"Enkōmia\" are the best-loved hymns of Byzantine hymnography, both their poetry and their music being uniquely suited to each other and to the spirit of the day. They consist of 185 tercet antiphons arranged in three parts (\"stáseis\" or \"stops\"), which are interjected with the verses of Psalm 119, and nine short \"doxastiká\" (\"Gloriae\") and \"Theotókia\" (invocations to the Virgin Mary). The three \"stáseis\" are each set to its own music, and are commonly known by their initial antiphons: , \"Life in a grave\", , \"Worthy it is\", and , \"All the generations\". Musically they can be classified as strophic, with 75, 62, and 48 tercet stanzas each, respectively. The climax of the \"Enkōmia\" comes during the third \"stásis\", with the antiphon \"Ō glyký mou Éar\", a lamentation of the Virgin for her dead Child (\"O, my sweet spring, my sweetest child, where has your beauty gone?\"). The author(s) and date of the \"Enkōmia\" are unknown. Their High Attic linguistic style suggests a dating around the 6th century, possibly before the time of St. Romanos the Melodist.\n\nAt the end of the Great Doxology, while the Trisagion is sung, the epitaphios is taken in procession around the outside the church, and is then returned to the tomb. Some churches observe the practice of holding the epitaphios at the door, above waist level, so the faithful most bow down under it as they come back into the church, symbolizing their entering into the death and resurrection of Christ. The epitaphios will lay in the tomb until the Paschal Service early Sunday morning. In some churches, the epitaphios is never left alone, but is accompanied 24 hours a day by a reader chanting from the Psalter.\n\nThe Troparion (hymn of the day) of Good Friday is:\n<poem>\nThe noble Joseph, when he had taken down Thy most pure Body from the tree, wrapped it in fine linen, and anointed it with spices, and placed it in a new tomb.\nGlory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever, and unto ages of ages. Amen.\nThe angel came to the myrrh-bearing women at the tomb and said:\nMyrrh is fitting for the dead, but Christ has shown Himself a stranger to corruption.\n</poem>\n\nThe Catholic Church regards Good Friday and Holy Saturday as the Paschal fast, in accord with Article 110 of Sacrosanctum Concilium. In the Latin Church, a fast day is understood as having only one full meal and two collations (a smaller repast, the two of which together do not equal the one full meal) – although this may be observed less stringently on Holy Saturday than on Good Friday.\n\nThe Roman Rite has no celebration of Mass between the Lord's Supper on Holy Thursday evening and the Easter Vigil unless a special exemption is granted for rare solemn or grave occasions by the Vatican or the local bishop. The only sacraments celebrated during this time are Baptism (for those in danger of death), Penance, and Anointing of the Sick. While there is no celebration of the Eucharist, it is distributed to the faithful only in the Service of the Passion of the Lord, but can also be taken at any hour to the sick who are unable to attend this service. After the Lord's Supper any candlesticks and altar cloths, cross or crosses are removed leaving it bare so that they may be returned in-ceremony on Easter Sunday which memorialises the day of Christ's resurrection. It is also customary to empty the holy water fonts in preparation of the blessing of the water at the Easter Vigil. Traditionally, no bells are rung on Good Friday or Holy Saturday until the Easter Vigil.\n\nThe Celebration of the Passion of the Lord takes place in the afternoon, ideally at three o'clock; however, for pastoral reasons (especially in countries where Good Friday is not a public holiday), it is permissible to celebrate the liturgy earlier, even shortly after midday, or at a later hour up until 9pm.\n\nThe vestments used are red (more commonly) or black (more traditionally). Before 1970, vestments were black except for the Communion part of the rite when violet was used. Before 1955 black was used throughout. If a bishop or abbot celebrates, he wears a plain mitre (\"mitra simplex\").\n\nThe Good Friday liturgy consists of three parts: the Liturgy of the Word, the Veneration of the Cross, and Holy Communion.\n\nIn addition to the prescribed liturgical service, the Stations of the Cross are often prayed either in the church or outside, and a prayer service may be held from midday to 3.00 pm, known as the Three Hours' Agony. In countries such as Malta, Italy, Philippines, Puerto Rico and Spain, processions with statues representing the Passion of Christ are held.\n\nIn Rome, since the papacy of Saint John Paul II, the heights of the Temple of Venus and Roma and their position opposite the main entrance to the Colosseum have been used to good effect as a public address platform. This may be seen in the photograph below where a red canopy has been erected to shelter the Pope as well as an illuminated cross, on the occasion of the Way of the Cross ceremony. The Pope, either personally or through a representative, leads the faithful through meditations on the stations of the cross while a cross is carried from there to the Colosseum.\n\nIn Polish churches, a tableau of Christ's Tomb is unveiled in the sanctuary. Many of the faithful spend long hours into the night grieving at the Tomb, where it is customary to kiss the wounds on the Lord's body. A life-size figure of Jesus lying in his tomb is widely visited by the faithful, especially on Holy Saturday. The tableaux may include flowers, candles, figures of angels standing watch, and the three crosses atop Mt Calvary, and much more. Each parish strives to come up with the most artistically and religiously evocative arrangement in which the Blessed Sacrament, draped in a filmy veil, is prominently displayed.\n\nThe Roman Catholic tradition includes specific prayers and devotions as \"acts of reparation\" for the sufferings and insults that Jesus suffered during his Passion on Good Friday. These Acts of Reparation to Jesus Christ do not involve a petition for a beneficiary, but aim to \"repair the sins\" against Jesus. Some such prayers are provided in the Raccolta Catholic prayer book (approved by a Decree of 1854, and published by the Holy See in 1898) which also includes prayers as Acts of Reparation to the Virgin Mary.\n\nIn his encyclical \"Miserentissimus Redemptor\" on reparations, Pope Pius XI called Acts of Reparation to Jesus Christ a duty for Catholics and referred to them as \"some sort of compensation to be rendered for the injury\" with respect to the sufferings of Jesus.\n\nPope John Paul II referred to Acts of Reparation as the \"unceasing effort to stand beside the endless crosses on which the Son of God continues to be crucified\".\n\nThe 1662 Book of Common Prayer did not specify a particular rite to be observed on Good Friday but local custom came to mandate an assortment of services, including the Seven Last Words from the Cross and a three-hour service consisting of Matins, Ante-communion (using the Reserved Sacrament in high church parishes) and Evensong. In recent times, revised editions of the Prayer Book and Common Worship have re-introduced pre-Reformation forms of observance of Good Friday corresponding to those in today's Roman Catholic Church, with special nods to the rites that had been observed in the Church of England prior to the Henrican, Edwardian and Elizabethan reforms, including Creeping to the Cross.\n\nIn Lutheran tradition from the 16th to the 20th century, Good Friday was the most important religious holiday, and abstention from all worldly works was expected. During that time, Lutheranism had no restrictions on the celebration of the Eucharist on Good Friday; on the contrary, it was a prime day on which to receive the Eucharist, and services were often accentuated by special music such as the \"St Matthew Passion\" by Johann Sebastian Bach.\n\nMore recently, Lutheran liturgical practice has recaptured Good Friday as part of the larger sweep of the great Three Days: Maundy Thursday, Good Friday, and the Vigil of Easter. The Three Days remain one liturgy which celebrates the death and resurrection of Jesus. As part of the liturgy of the Three Days, Lutherans generally fast from the Eucharist on Good Friday. Rather, it is celebrated in remembrance of the Last Supper on Maundy Thursday and at the Vigil of Easter. One practice among Lutheran churches is to celebrate a tenebrae service on Good Friday, typically conducted in candlelight and consisting of a collection of passion accounts from the four gospels. While being called \"Tenebrae\" it holds little resemblance to the now-suppressed Catholic monastic rite of the same name. The Good Friday liturgy appointed in \"Evangelical Lutheran Worship\", the worship book of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, specifies a liturgy similar to the revised Roman Catholic liturgy. A rite for adoration of the crucified Christ includes the optional singing of the Solemn Reproaches in an updated and revised translation which eliminates some of the anti-Jewish overtones in previous versions. Influenced by the ecumenical liturgical renewal movement and in an attempt to recover patterns of worship from the early church, many Lutheran congregations are moving away from long preaching services centered on a dramatic and sentimentalized remembrance of the \"Seven Last Words,\" sayings of Jesus assembled from the four gospels, toward a more devotional practice that places an emphasis on the triumph of the cross, and a singular biblical account of the Passion narrative from the Gospel of John.\n\nAlong with observing a general Lenten fast, many Lutherans emphasize the importance of Good Friday as a day of fasting within the kalendar. \"A Handbook for the Discipline of Lent\" recommends the Lutheran guideline to \"Fast on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday with only one simple meal during the day, usually without meat\".\n\nMany other mainstream Protestant communities hold special services on this day as well. Moravians hold a Lovefeast on Good Friday as they receive Holy Communion on Maundy Thursday. The Methodist Church commemorates Good Friday with fasting, as well as a service of worship, often based on the Seven Last Words from the Cross. It is not uncommon for some communities to hold interdenominational services on Good Friday.\n\nIn the Reformed tradition, Good Friday is one of the evangelical feasts and is thus widely observed with church services, which feature the Solemn Reproaches in the pattern of Psalm 78, towards the end of the liturgy.\n\nIn many countries with a strong Christian tradition such as Australia, Bermuda, Brazil, Canada, the countries of the Caribbean, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Malta, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, the Philippines, the Scandinavian countries, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and Venezuela, the day is observed as a public or federal holiday. In the United States, 12 states observe Good Friday as state holiday: Connecticut, Texas, Delaware, Hawaii, Indiana, Tennessee, Florida, Kentucky, Louisiana, New Jersey, North Carolina and North Dakota. Germany and some other countries have laws prohibiting certain acts, such as dancing and horse racing, that are seen as profaning the solemn nature of the day.\n\nGood Friday is a holiday under state and territory laws in all states and territories in Australia. Generally speaking, shops in all Australian states (but not in the two territories of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory) are required to remain closed for the duration of Good Friday, although there are certain shops which are permitted to open and other shops can apply for exemptions. All schools and universities close on Good Friday in Australia, and Good Friday falls within the school holidays in most years in all states and territories except the Northern Territory, although many states now commence their school holidays in early April regardless of Easter. In 2018, for example, when Good Friday fell on 30 March, only Queensland and Victoria had school holidays which coincided with Good Friday.<ref name=\"australia.gov.au/about-australia/special-dates-and-events/school-term-dates\"></ref> The vast majority of businesses are closed on Good Friday, although many recreational businesses, such as the Sydney Royal Easter Show, open on Good Friday as among non-religious families Good Friday is a popular day to indulge in such activities. In New Zealand, Good Friday is a legal holiday and is a day of mandatory school closure for all New Zealand state and integrated schools. Good Friday is also a restricted trading day in New Zealand, which means that unexempted shops are not permitted to open on this day.\n\nIn Canada, Good Friday is a federal statutory holiday. In the province of Quebec \"employers can choose to give the day off either on Good Friday or Easter Monday.\"\n\nIn an online article posted on Catholic News Agency by Alejandro Bermúdez on 31 March 2012, Cuban President Raúl Castro, with the Communist Party and his advisers, decreed that Good Friday that year would be a holiday. This was Castro's response to a request made personally to him by Pope Benedict XVI during the latter's Apostolic Visitation to the island and León, Mexico that month. The move followed the pattern of small advances in Cuba's relations with the Vatican, mirroring Pope John Paul II's success in getting Fidel Castro to declare Christmas Day a holiday. Both Good Friday and Christmas are now annual holidays in Cuba.\n\nIn Hong Kong, despite the transfer of sovereignty from the UK to China in 1997, Good Friday continues to be a public holiday. Government offices, banks, post offices and most offices are closed on Good Friday.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, Good Friday is not an official public holiday, but most non-retail businesses close for the day. Up until 2018 it was illegal to sell alcoholic beverages on Good Friday, with some exceptions, so pubs and off-licences generally closed. Critics of the ban included the catering and tourism sector, but surveys showed that the general public were divided on the issue. In Northern Ireland, a similar ban operates until 5 pm on Good Friday.\n\nAlthough Malaysia is a Muslim majority country, Good Friday is declared as a public holiday in the states of Sabah and Sarawak in East Malaysia as there is a significant Christian indigenous population in both states.\n\nThe Holy Week commemorations reach their peak on Good Friday as the Roman Catholic Church celebrates the passion of Jesus. Solemn celebrations take place in all churches together with processions in different villages around Malta and Gozo. During the celebration, the narrative of the passion is read in some localities, while the Adoration of the Cross follows. Good Friday processions take place in Birgu, Bormla, Għaxaq, Luqa, Mosta, Naxxar, Paola, Qormi, Rabat, Senglea, Valletta, Żebbuġ (Città Rohan) and Żejtun. Processions in Gozo will be in Nadur, Victoria (St. George and Cathedral), Xagħra and Żebbuġ, Gozo.\n\nIn the predominantly Roman Catholic Philippines, the day is commemorated with street processions, the Way of the Cross, the chanting of the \"Pasyón\", and performances of the \"Senákulo\" or Passion play. Some devotees engage in self-flagellation and even have themselves crucified as expressions of penance despite health risks and strong disapproval from the Church.\n\nChurch bells are not rung and Masses are not celebrated, while television features movies, documentaries and other shows focused on the religious event and other topics related to the Catholic faith, broadcasting mostly religious content. Malls and shops are generally closed, as are restaurants as it is the second of three public holidays within the week.\n\nAfter three o'clock in the afternoon (the time at which Jesus is traditionally believed to have died), the faithful venerate the cross in the local church and follow the procession of the Burial of Jesus. The image of the dead Christ is then laid in state to be venerated, and sometimes treated in accordance with local burial customs.\n\nIn Cebu and many parts of the Visayan Islands, people usually eat \"binignit\" and \"biko\" as a form of fasting.\n\nIn the UK, Good Friday was historically a common law holiday and is recognised as an official public holiday (also known as a Bank Holiday). All state schools are closed and most businesses treat it as a holiday for staff; however, many retail stores now remain open. Government services in Northern Ireland operate as normal on Good Friday, substituting Easter Tuesday for the holiday.\n\nThere has traditionally been no horse racing on Good Friday in the UK. However, in 2008, betting shops and stores opened for the first time on this day and in 2014 Lingfield Park and Musselburgh staged the UK's first Good Friday race meetings. The BBC has for many years introduced its 7 am News broadcast on Radio 4 on Good Friday with a verse from Isaac Watts' hymn \"When I Survey the Wondrous Cross\".\n\nIn the United States, Good Friday is not a government holiday at the federal level; however, individual states, counties and municipalities may observe the holiday. Good Friday is a state holiday in Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Indiana, Kentucky (half day), Louisiana, New Jersey, North Carolina, North Dakota, Tennessee and Texas. State and local government offices and courts are closed, as well as some banks and post offices in these states, and in those counties and municipalities where Good Friday is observed as a holiday. Good Friday is also a holiday in the U.S. territories of Guam, U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.\n\nThe stock markets are closed on Good Friday but the foreign exchange and bond trading markets open for a partial business day. Most retail stores remain open, while some of them may close early. Public schools and universities are often closed on Good Friday, either as a holiday of its own, or as part of spring break. The postal service operates, and banks regulated by the federal government do not close for Good Friday.\n\nIn some governmental contexts Good Friday has been referred to by a generic name such as \"spring holiday\". In 1999, in the case of \"Bridenbaugh v. O'Bannon\", an Indiana state employee sued the governor for giving state employees Good Friday as a day off. The US Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals ruled against the plaintiff, stating that the government could give state employees a paid day off when that day is a religious holiday, including Good Friday, but only so long as the state can provide a valid secular purpose that coincides with the obvious religious purpose of the holiday.\n\nGood Friday is the Friday before Easter, which is calculated differently in Eastern Christianity and Western Christianity (see Computus for details). Easter falls on the first Sunday following the Paschal Full Moon, the full moon on or after 21 March, taken to be the date of the vernal equinox. The Western calculation uses the Gregorian calendar, while the Eastern calculation uses the Julian calendar, whose 21 March now corresponds to the Gregorian calendar's 3 April. The calculations for identifying the date of the full moon also differ. See Computus.\n\nIn Eastern Christianity, Easter can fall between 22 March and 25 April on Julian Calendar (thus between 4 April and 8 May in terms of the Gregorian calendar, during the period 1900 and 2099), so Good Friday can fall between 20 March and 23 April, inclusive (or between 2 April and 6 May in terms of the Gregorian calendar).\n\nGood Friday assumes a particular importance in the plot of Richard Wagner's music drama \"Parsifal\", which contains an orchestral interlude known as the \"Good Friday Music\".\n\nSome Baptist congregations, the Philadelphia Church of God, and some non-denominational churches oppose the observance of Good Friday, regarding it as a papist tradition, and instead observe the Crucifixion on Wednesday to coincide with the Jewish sacrifice of the Passover Lamb (which Christians believe is an Old Testament pointer to Jesus Christ). A Wednesday Crucifixion of Jesus allows for him to be in the tomb (\"heart of the earth\") for three days and three nights as he told the Pharisees he would be (Matthew 12:40), rather than two nights and a day (by inclusive counting, as was the norm at that time) if he had died on a Friday. Preparation Day (14 Nisan on the Hebrew calendar) – which is the day before Passover (15 Nisan), instead of the Friday morning as the Synoptic Gospels refer to the sabbath and they believe this refers to a \"high sabbath\" which occurs on feast days, and not the ordinary weekly sabbath.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54047798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54047798", "title": "International Alpine Trial", "text": "International Alpine Trial\n\nThe International Alpine Trial (\"Coupe Internationale des Alpes\") was a \"Time-Speed-Distance\" motor sport rally held annually (with exceptions) between 1928 and 1936. It was one of the earliest international motorsport event of its kind and covered a distance of approximately 2,000 kilometers over an Alpine route, usually including Italy, France, Switzerland and, till 1933, Austria and Germany.\nThe event took place eight times between 1928 and 1936, over seven different routes.\n\n\n\nApproximately 100 crews registered for the 1928 event which was held during the third week in August. Of these, 86 started from Milan and 44 crossed the finishing line in Munich after covering a notional 1,964 kilometers over 7 days. There were no prizes for drivers/crews: the four champion constructors were Adler, Brennabor, Minerva and O.M..\n\n36 crews arrived at the finishing post in Como without attracting penality points, having completed a course of 2,518 kilometers. They were all rewarded with \"Alpine cups\". 80 teams (out of 95 who had registered) departed from Munich: 48 of these completed the course without exceeding the permitted quota of penalty points. Two \"Alpine cups\" were awarded to manufacturers: Hansa and BMW. Georg Kimpel, driving one of the two Mercedes-Benz SSKs won the two special hillclimbing sections - trials of pure performance - which covered the Pass and the Pordoi Pass. The other SSK, driven by Wilhelm Merck, finished second on the Stelvio section. Second place on the Pordoi section went to Emilio Ricchetti in a Bugatti.\n\nNo event\n"}
{"id": "18707333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18707333", "title": "Iraqi Kurdish Civil War", "text": "Iraqi Kurdish Civil War\n\nThe Iraqi Kurdish Civil War was a military conflict that took place between rival Kurdish factions in Iraqi Kurdistan during the mid-1990s, most notably between the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan and the Kurdistan Democratic Party. Over the course of the conflict, Kurdish factions from Iran and Turkey, as well as Iranian, Iraqi and Turkish forces were drawn into the fighting, with additional involvement from the American forces. Between 3,000 and 5,000 fighters and civilians were killed. According to some estimates however, upwards of 8,000 civilians alone could have been killed throughout the more than three years of warfare.\n\nAutonomy in Iraqi Kurdistan was originally established in 1970 as the \"Kurdish Autonomous Region\" following the agreement of an Autonomy Accord between the government of Iraq and leaders of the Iraqi Kurdish community. A Legislative Assembly was established in the city of Erbil with nominal authority over the Kurdish-populated governorates of Erbil, Dahuk and As Sulaymaniyah. As various battles between separatist Kurds and Iraqi government forces continued until the 1991 uprisings in Iraq, the safety of Kurdish refugees led to the adoption of United Nations Security Council Resolution 688 which was used as a justification to implement Operation Provide Comfort, a multilateral military operation that ensured the security of the Iraqi Kurdish region through the use of air power while simultaneously providing humanitarian aid to refugees fleeing persecution. While the no-fly zone covered Dahuk and Erbil, it left out Sulaymaniyah and Kirkuk. This led to a further series of bloody clashes between Iraqi forces and Kurdish troops. Shortly thereafter, an uneasy balance of power was reached, and Iraq withdrew its military and government officials from the region in October 1991. From that point on, Iraqi Kurdistan had achieved \"de facto\" independence under the leadership of two principal Kurdish parties – the Kurdish Democratic Party and the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan – free from the control of Baghdad. The region then adopted its own flag and national anthem.\n\nIraqi Kurdistan held parliamentary elections in 1992. The KDP gained an absolute majority of the votes in the governorates of Dohuk and Arbil, whereas the PUK garnered the broad support of the Sulaymaniyah governorate as well as the Kurdish portions of Diyala (specifically the Kifri and Khanaqin Districts). As a result of the election, the Kurdish parliament had been evenly split between Jalal Talabani's Patriotic Union of Kurdistan and Massoud Barzani's Kurdish Democratic Party.\n\nAfter withdrawing its forces from Kurdistan in October 1991, the Iraqi government imposed an economic blockade over the region, restricting its oil and food supplies. The United Nations embargo on Iraq also significantly affected the Kurdish economy, preventing trade between the Kurds and other nations. As such, all economic dealings between Iraqi Kurdistan and the outside world were done through the black market.\n\nFighting broke out between the two factions in May 1994. The clashes left around 300 people dead. Over the next year, around 2,000 people were killed on both sides. According to CIA agent Robert Baer, members of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps provided limited support to the KDP and allowed the KDP to launch attacks from Iranian territory.\n\nIn January 1995, CIA case officer Robert Baer traveled to northern Iraq with a five-man team to set up a CIA station. He made contact with the Kurdish leadership and managed to negotiate a truce between Barzani and Talabani.\n\nWithin days, Baer made contact with an Iraqi general who was plotting to assassinate Saddam Hussein. His plan was to use a unit of 100 renegade Iraqi troops to kill Saddam as he passed over a bridge near Tikrit. Baer cabled the plan to Washington but did not hear anything back. After three weeks, the plan was revised, calling for an attack by Kurdish forces in northern Iraq while rebel Iraqi troops leveled one of Saddam's houses with tank fire in order to kill the Iraqi leader. Baer again cabled the plan to Washington and received no response. On 28 February, the Iraqi Army was placed on full alert. In response, the Iranian and Turkish militaries were also placed on high alert. Baer received a message directly from National Security Advisor Tony Lake telling him his operation was compromised. This warning was passed on to the Kurdish and Iraqi allies. With this new information, Barzani backed out of the planned offensive, leaving Talabani's PUK forces to carry it out alone.\n\nThe Iraqi Army officers planning to kill Saddam with tank fire were compromised, arrested and executed before they could carry out the operation. The PUK's offensive was still launched as planned, and within days they managed to destroy three Iraqi Army divisions and capture 5,000 prisoners. Despite Baer's pleas for American support of the offensive, none was offered, and the Kurdish troops were forced to withdraw. Baer was immediately recalled from Iraq and briefly investigated for the attempted murder of Saddam Hussein. He would later be cleared.\n\nAlthough the Kurdish parliament ceased to meet in May 1996, the fragile cease-fire between the PUK and KDP held until the summer of 1996. During this period, the Iraqi government was permitted by the KDP to establish a smuggling route through the Khabur River basin for the transportation of illegal petroleum exports. Barzani and his associates seized the opportunity to impose taxation on this trade, giving them the means to earn several million dollars per week. This led to a dispute with the PUK over the beneficiaries of Kurdish imports and exports. Although the two parties reached an agreement where the Iraqi–Turkish smuggling routes would be divided evenly between each other, the KDP continued its attempts to exert greater control over the movement of goods through Kurdistan.\n\nTalabani established an alliance with Iran, permitting them to conduct a military incursion into northern Iraq aimed at the Kurdish Democratic Party of Iran on 28 July. Faced with the prospect of fighting both Iran and the PUK, Massoud Barzani asked for assistance from Saddam Hussein. Seeing an opportunity to retake northern Iraq, Saddam accepted. On 31 August, 30,000 Iraqi troops, spearheaded by an armored division of the Iraqi Republican Guard attacked the PUK-held city of Erbil, which was defended by 3,000 PUK Peshmerga led by Korsat Rasul Ali, in conjunction with KDP forces. Erbil was captured, and Iraqi troops executed 700 captured soldiers of the PUK and the Iraqi National Congress dissident group in a field outside Erbil.\n\nThis attack stoked American fears that Saddam intended to launch a genocidal campaign against the Kurds similar to the campaigns of 1988 and 1991. This move also placed Saddam in clear violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 688 forbidding repression of Iraq's ethnic minorities. In response, the Clinton administration began Operation Desert Strike on 3 September, when American ships and B-52 Stratofortress bombers launched 27 cruise missiles at Iraqi air defense sites in southern Iraq. The next day, 17 more cruise missiles were launched from American ships against Iraqi air defense sites. The United States also deployed strike aircraft and an aircraft carrier to the Persian Gulf region, and the extent of the southern no-fly zone was moved northwards to the 33rd parallel.\n\nAfter installing the KDP in control of Erbil, Iraqi troops withdrew from the Kurdish region back to their initial positions. The KDP drove the PUK from its other strongholds, and with additional Iraqi help captured Sulaymaniyah, on 9 September. Jalal Talabani and the PUK retreated to the Iranian border, and American forces evacuated 700 Iraqi National Congress personnel and 6,000 pro-Western Kurds out of northern Iraq. On 13 October, Sulaymaniyah was recaptured by the PUK, allegedly with support of Iranian forces.\n\nFighting continued throughout the winter between the KDP and PUK. Complicating matters, PKK was present in Iraq. PKK was allied with the PUK which later led KDP attack the PKK. According to some sources, the PKK began to fight against all who supported KDP, including some Assyrian and Arab groups. Turkey which saw the Kurdish Civil war as an opportunity, allied with KDP and launched Operation Hammer in May, in a violent attempt to force the PKK to leave Iraqi Kurdistan. This operation caused heavy PKK casualties but was unsuccessful. PKK succeeded to keep their camps in Northern Iraq.\n\nOn 25 September 1997, Turkish forces re-entered Iraqi Kurdistan and attacked PUK and PKK positions in an attempt to force the PKK to leave Iraqi Kurdistan. However, according to Turkish sources, it was an attempt to bring a cease-fire between the factions. The operation resulted in heavy PKK and PUK casualties. Later a cease-fire was negotiated between the PUK and KDP after the US decision to support a cease-fire.\n\nDespite the cease-fire, renewed fighting broke out along the armistice line between the KDP and PUK in October and November. In this round of fighting, 1,200 combatants were killed on both sides and 10,000 civilians fled their homes. On 24 November 1997, the KDP declared a unilateral cease-fire. The PUK, although not declaring a cease-fire officially, said their group would respect the truce, despite alleging that the KDP had violated the truce by attacking PUK positions on 25 November.\n\nIn September 1998, Barzani and Talabani signed the U.S.-mediated Washington Agreement establishing a formal peace treaty. In the agreement, the parties agreed to share revenue, share power, deny the use of northern Iraq to the PKK, and not allow Iraqi troops into the Kurdish regions. The United States pledged to use military force to protect the Kurds from possible aggression by Saddam Hussein. At the same time, implementation of the U.N. Oil-for-Food Programme brought revenue to northern Iraq, allowing for increased standards of living. Iraqi Kurdistan became a relatively peaceful region, before the terrorist group Ansar al-Islam entered the area in December 2001, bringing renewed conflict.\n\nAround a month later, U.S. President Bill Clinton signed the Iraq Liberation Act into law, providing for military assistance to Iraqi opposition groups, including the PUK and KDP. The KDP estimated that 58,000 of its supporters had been expelled from PUK-controlled regions from October 1996 to October 1997. The PUK says 49,000 of its supporters were expelled from KDP-controlled regions from August 1996 to December 1997.\n\nThe PUK and KDP later co-operated with American forces during the 2003 invasion of Iraq, routing Iraqi forces with the help of American air power and overrunning much of northern Iraq including the cities of Kirkuk and Mosul. After the invasion, Massoud Barzani was later elected president of Iraqi Kurdistan while Jalal Talabani was elected President of Iraq.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "491481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=491481", "title": "John William Heslop-Harrison", "text": "John William Heslop-Harrison\n\nProf John William Heslop Harrison, FRS FRSE (1881–1967), was Professor of Botany at King's College, Durham University (now Newcastle University). He enjoyed a brilliant career, specialising in the genetics of moths, but is now best remembered for an alleged academic fraud.\n\nHe was born in Birtley on 22 January 1881, the son of George Heslop-Harrison, a pattern-maker at Birtley Iron Works. He was educated at Bede College School in Durham then Rutherford School for Boys in Newcastle-upon-Tyne. His mother was a keen gardener, and other influences such as his uncle, Rev J E Hull, and neighbour, Charles Robson, led him to an early interest in botany and natural history.\n\nHe then studied at Durham College of Science, graduating BSc in 1903. He did further postgraduate study at the University of Newcastle gaining an MSc in 1916 and doctorate (DSc) in 1917.\n\nIn 1921 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were James Hartley Ashworth, Sir Thomas Hudson Beare, Percy Hall Grimshaw, and James Ritchie. He served as the Society's Vice-President 1945–1948. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London in 1928.\n\nHe died in Birtley, Tyne and Wear on 23 January 1967.\n\nFrom 1903 to 1905 he was a schoolmaster in Gateshead and then until 1917 in Middlesbrough.\n\nIn 1917 he began lecturing in Genetics and Botany at the University of Newcastle being given a professorship in 1927. He remained in this role until retiring in 1946.\n\nIn 1948 he was accused by John Raven, a University of Cambridge classics tutor, of making false claims to have discovered certain plant species on the Isle of Rum on the west coast of Scotland. Whether or not such grasses were on Rum is pivotal to a theory that the islands escaped the last ice age. The fraud claim is described – and its veracity supported – in Karl Sabbagh's book, \"A Rum Affair\". In 2008 further proof about the forgeries committed by Heslop-Harrison emerged.\n\nHeslop Harrison was described as a loner who avoided as much contact as possible with other professionals and conducted most of his experiments at his home in Birtley, Tyne and Wear. He was a supporter of Lamarckian evolution from his experiments with moths and sawflies. According to researcher Michael A. Salmon \"Heslop Harrison claimed to have experimental proof that physical changes in the life of an individual moth or sawfly could be passed on to its progeny, according to the theory of Lamarck... For example, Heslop Harrison thought that melanism resulted from the effect of pollution on individual moths which somehow altered their genes. When others attempted to repeat his experiment, however, they always seemed to come up with different results.\"\n\nIn the 1920s, Heslop Harrison conducted experiments on the peppered moth, claiming to have evidence for the inheritance of acquired characteristics. Other scientists failed to replicate his results. His experiments were criticised by J. B. S. Haldane.\n\nIn 1906 he married Christian Watson Henderson. Their eldest son was George Heslop-Harrison FRSE who also came to fame as an entomologist.\n\nHeslop Harrison's fourth son was Jack Heslop-Harrison who became director of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew in 1970. His daughter Helena married the botanist William Andrew Clark.\n"}
{"id": "6212314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6212314", "title": "King Opera House", "text": "King Opera House\n\nThe King Opera House is a performance hall located on Van Buren, Arkansas's Main Street. Since it was built in the late 19th century, the opera house's stage has hosted many plays and performers. The King Opera House is a contributing property to the Van Buren Historic District, listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe Victorian-era structure first opened its doors in the late 19th century, and has since undergone extensive restoration prior to reopening for use in 1979. The auditorium of the opera house has numerous seats on ground level, with additional seating in the balcony; all with an intricate, period-correct design. Built for large and well-sized performances on its stage, the opera house's basement, in contrast, has two couches and two small closet-sized dressing rooms. The basement can be highly cramped, in its relatively modest changing area and green room, particularly for productions with large casts.\n\n"}
{"id": "30990503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30990503", "title": "Kuwaiti protests (2011–12)", "text": "Kuwaiti protests (2011–12)\n\nThe Kuwaiti protests refers to the series of 2011–12 demonstrations for government reforms in the state of Kuwait. In November 2011, the government of Kuwait resigned in response to the protests, making Kuwait one of several countries affected by the Arab Spring to experience major governmental changes due to unrest. The protests began with stateless people (Bedoon).\n\nSabah Al-Sabah, the Emir of Kuwait, gave every Kuwaiti citizen 1,000 dinars (3580 $) and a free food grant for one year on 18 January 2011, officially to commemorate the 20th anniversary of Kuwait's liberation from occupying Iraqi forces during the First Gulf War, as well as the 50th anniversary of the state's independence. But the grant was not extended to the stateless Bedoun living in Kuwait. Dozens demonstrated in Kuwait City on 19 February against their supposed second-class status. Opposition leaders called for further protests in March to pressure Prime Minister Nasser Al-Sabah to resign.\n\nStateless people continued to protest into January 2012 despite a protest ban, turning out on 13 and 14 January in slums near Kuwait City to call for the right to citizenship. On both days, violence broke out, with riot police clashing with stateless demonstrators and arresting several dozen on 13 January and firing tear gas to disperse rally-goers on 14 January.\n\nRiot police on 2 October used tear gas and smoke bombs to disperse hundreds of stateless demonstrators who were demanding citizenship. Witnesses and activists said at least three people, including a policeman, were slightly wounded and 10 stateless were arrested as security forces laid a siege on Taima suburb in Al Jahra which houses tens of thousands of stateless. The new protest comes a week after three international human rights groups sent an unprecedented letter to Emir Al-Sabah urging him to end alleged abuse against stateless people.\n\nOn the night of 16 November, demonstrators and several opposition MPs stormed the National Assembly, briefly occupying it while singing and shouting slogans calling for Prime Minister Nasser Al-Sabah to step down. They left after several minutes to rally in the adjacent Al-Erada Square, although riot police attacked several protesters with nightsticks when a smaller group split off and tried to charge the prime minister's residence.\n\nShortly after the Constitutional Court declared on June 2012 that the February 2012 National Assembly election were \"illegal\" and reinstated the previous pro-government parliament, thousands of Kuwaitis rally in Al-Erada Square on 26 June to protests against a court ruling that dissolved the opposition-dominated parliament. Demonstrators chanted \"we will not surrender\", while a prominent opposition MP called for a constitutional monarchy. On 27 August, around 3,000 people, mainly men in traditional Kuwaiti dress, gathered opposite parliament at Al-Erada Square to protest changes to the electoral law which they said could harm the prospects of opposition lawmakers in upcoming elections.\n\nAround 1,500 Kuwaitis took part in a rally late on 10 September to protest against possible changes in the electoral law and call for more democracy. The crowd, which included opposition lawmakers and political activists, gathered outside parliament in a square which has hosted several anti-government demonstrations since late last year. However, the turnout was smaller than previous rallies in the major oil producer and there was only a light police presence.\n\nThousands of Kuwait opposition supporters rallied on 24 September, a day ahead where the Constitutional Court is scheduled to rule on next day if the electoral constituency law is in line with the constitution based on a request submitted by the government last month. Around 10,000 people, who filled the seaside square opposite the parliament building, cheered loudly as opposition figures called for an elected government and warned against what they called a politicised ruling. The next day, the Constitutional Court ruled that the Gulf emirate's electoral constituency law was in line with the constitution, rejecting a government appeal. Dozens of opposition activists who were in the court room hailed the verdict and exchanged congratulations.\n\nOn 15 October, Kuwaiti security forces detained at least five people, including the son of a prominent opposition figure, at an anti-government protest against possible changes to an election law. Several people were hurt in skirmishes at the rally, attended by at least 3,000 people who defied a request by authorities to cancel the Monday night demonstration. In some of the strongest remarks by an opposition figure, former lawmaker Musallam Al-Barrak appealed directly to Kuwaiti Emir to avoid \"autocratic rule\". His speech to the crowd contained extremely rare criticism of the ruler, \"In the name of the nation, in the name of the people, we will not let you, your Highness, practice autocratic rule,\" Barrak told the rally in a speech addressed to the emir, drew repeated chants of \"we will not let you, we will not let you\" from the crowd. Analysts said his remarks, including the criticism of the emir could spark a strong reaction from the authorities. The son of Ahmed Al-Sadoun, another prominent opposition leader and former parliament speaker, was among those detained during the protest near parliament where several anti-government demonstrations have taken place in the past year.\n\nAfter the 1 December elections which were won by pro-government candidates due to boycotts by the opposition, hundreds of opposition supporters demonstrated in various areas of Kuwait late on 6 December to demand scrapping the newly elected national assembly. Night demonstrations were staged in at least four areas of the state and that riot police used teargas and stun grenades to disperse the protesters. Activists clashed with police on the next day as they took to the streets in at least eight areas of the Gulf state. Thousands then demonstrated on 8 December to demand dissolving the new elected parliament.\n\nOn 18 October 2012, former MP Bader al-Dahum was taken into police custody. Khaled al-Tahus, also a former MP, was summoned for questioning by the prosecution service. Later, a group of around 500 people gathered outside the Justice Palace late Thursday night to protest against the detention of the former lawmakers. On the same day, Kuwait's Al-Sabah royal family issued a rare statement calling for \"obedience\" to the government. The three former lawmakers were all later released on bail on 23 October. Local media reported on 24 October that authorities have banned gatherings of more than 20 people.\n\nOpposition lawmaker Musallam Al-Barrak was arrested by Kuwaiti authorities on the night of 29 October following a news conference at his house where he called on the government to abide by the constitution. Activists says that his arrest could impact for the further protests, which demonstrators has vowed to stage another protest on 4 November. He was freed after an appeal although he remains under investigation. Another opposition figure, former Islamist MP Faisal Al-Muslim, has been summoned for questioning on 31 October. On 3 November, the Kuwaiti newspaper \"Al-Anbaa\" quoted a security source saying that authorities may call in the army to help security forces stop a march called by the opposition for the next day, shortly after the government vowed to use force if necessary.\nThere were allegations that Jordanian forces had been deployed to assist in quelling protests in Kuwait. However, the Jordanian government denies this, saying the reports were \"fabricated\" and \"not worthy of comment.\"\n"}
{"id": "701408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=701408", "title": "Life of Galileo", "text": "Life of Galileo\n\nLife of Galileo (), also known as \"Galileo\", is a play by the twentieth-century German dramatist Bertolt Brecht with incidental music by Hanns Eisler. The play was written in 1938 and received its first theatrical production (in German) at the Zurich Schauspielhaus, opening on 9 September 1943. This production was directed by Leonard Steckel, with set-design by Teo Otto. The cast included Steckel himself (as Galileo), Karl Paryla and Wolfgang Langhoff.\n\nThe second (or 'American') version was written in English between 1945–1947 in collaboration with Charles Laughton, and opened at the Coronet Theatre in Los Angeles on 30 July 1947. It was directed by Joseph Losey and Brecht, with musical direction by Serge Hovey and set-design by Robert Davison. Laughton played Galileo, with Hugo Haas as Barberini and Frances Heflin as Virginia. This production opened at the Maxine Elliott's Theatre in New York on 7 December of the same year.\n\nIn 1955, in the wake of the Manhattan Project, Brecht prepared a third version. A production, by the Berliner Ensemble with Ernst Busch in the title role, opened in January 1957 at the Theater am Schiffbauerdamm and was directed by Erich Engel, with set-design by Caspar Neher. The play was first published in 1940.\n\nThe action of the play follows the career of the great Italian natural philosopher Galileo Galilei and the Galileo affair, in which he was tried by the Roman Catholic Church for the promulgation of his scientific discoveries. The play embraces such themes as the conflict between dogmatism and scientific evidence, as well as interrogating the values of constancy in the face of oppression.\n\nAfter emigrating to the United States from Hitler's Germany (with stopovers in various other countries in between, among them the USSR), Brecht translated and re-worked the first version of his play in collaboration with the actor Charles Laughton. The result of their efforts was the second 'American version' of the play, entitled simply \"Galileo\", which to this day remains the most widely staged version in the English-speaking world. This version differed in tone from the original, as Brecht felt that the optimistic portrait of the scientific project present in the first version required revision in a post-Hiroshima world, where science's harmful potential had become more apparent. This second version formed the basis for Losey's 1975 film adaptation for American Film Theatre under the title \"Galileo\" with Topol in the title role.\n\nIn September 1947, Brecht was subpoenaed in the US by the House Un-American Activities Committee for alleged communist connections. He testified before HUAC on 30 October 1947, and flew to Europe on 31 October. He chose to return to East Germany and continued to work on the play, now once again in the German language. The final German version premiered at Cologne in April 1955.\n\nMatej Danter offers a readily-accessible and detailed comparison of the early, the American, and the final German versions.\n\nIn 2013 the Royal Shakespeare Company performed a new version of the play based on a \"pared down\" translation by Mark Ravenhill; the Swan Theatre production received a favorable review from the veteran theater critic Michael Billington.\n\nGalileo, an eminent professor and scientist in the 17th century Venetian Republic, is short of money. A prospective student tells him about a novel invention, the telescope (\"a queer tube thing\"), that is being sold in Amsterdam. Galileo replicates it, and offers it to the Republic as his own creation. He gains an increase in his salary, but within a short time his ruse is discovered.\n\nGalileo then uses the telescope for careful observations of the Moon and the planets, and he discovers the moons orbiting Jupiter. His observations strongly support Nicolaus Copernicus' heliocentric model of our Solar System, which is counter both to popular belief and to the doctrine of the powerful Roman Catholic Church. He furthermore publishes in vernacular Italian, rather than traditional scientific Latin, thus making his work and conclusions more accessible to the common people.\n\nHis daughter's engagement to a well-off young man (with whom she is genuinely in love) is broken because of Galileo's reluctance to distance himself from his unorthodox teachings. Galileo is brought to the Vatican in Rome for interrogation by the Inquisition. Upon being threatened with torture, he recants his teachings. His students are shocked by his surrender in the face of pressure from the church authorities.\n\nGalileo, old and broken, now living under house arrest with a priest monitoring his activities, is visited by one of his former pupils, Andrea. Galileo gives him a book (\"Two New Sciences\") containing all his scientific discoveries, asking him to smuggle it out of Italy for dissemination abroad. Andrea now believes Galileo's actions were heroic and that he just recanted to fool the ecclesiastical authorities. However, Galileo insists his actions had nothing to do with heroism but were merely the result of self-interest.\n\nThe play stays generally faithful to Galileo's science and timeline thereof, but takes significant liberties with his personal life. Galileo did in fact use a telescope, observe the moons of Jupiter, advocate for the heliocentric model, observe sunspots, investigate buoyancy, and write on physics, and did visit the Vatican twice to defend his work, the second time being made to recant his views, and being confined to house arrest thereafter.\n\nOne significant liberty that is taken is the treatment of Galileo's daughter Virginia Gamba (Sister Maria Celeste), who, rather than becoming engaged, was considered unmarriageable by her father and confined to a convent from the age of thirteen (the bulk of the play), and, further, died of dysentery shortly after her father's recantation. However, Galileo was close with Virginia, and they corresponded extensively.\n\nThere are a number of allusions to Galileo's science and to Marxism which are not further elaborated in the play; some of these are glossed below.\n\nThe discussion of \"price\" versus \"value\" was a major point of debate in 19th century economics, under the terms exchange value versus use value. Within Marxian economics this is discussed under the labor theory of value.\n\nMore subtly, Marx is sometimes interpreted as advocating technological determinism (technological progress determines social change), which is reflected in the telescope (a technological change) being the root of the scientific progress and hence social unrest.\n\nThe mention of tides refers to Galileo's theory that the motion of the Earth caused the tides, which would give the desired physical proof of the Earth's movement, and which is discussed in his \"Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems,\" whose working title was \"Dialogue on the Tides.\" In actuality Galileo was wrong. Kepler correctly believed that the Moon's gravity caused the tides.\n\nThe bent wooden rail in scene 13 and the discussion that the quickest distance between two points need not be a straight line (though a straight line offers the \"shortest\" path, the fastest descent of a rolling ball in fact follows a curve) alludes to Galileo's investigation of the brachistochrone (in the context of the quickest descent from a point to a wall), which he incorrectly believed to be given by a quarter circle. Instead, the brachistochrone is a half cycloid, which was only proven much later with the development of calculus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30859542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30859542", "title": "List of assassinations by firearm", "text": "List of assassinations by firearm\n\nThe following is a list of firearms by assassination detailing the firearms used in the killings of politicians and key social and cultural figures.\n"}
{"id": "57585009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57585009", "title": "Lunar Ultraviolet Cosmic Imager", "text": "Lunar Ultraviolet Cosmic Imager\n\nLunar Ultraviolet Cosmic Imager (LUCI) is a small planned telescope that would be landed on the Moon to scan the sky in near UV wavelengths. It is a technology demonstrator developed by the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, and it would be one of several small payloads to be deployed by the commercial HHK-1 lunar lander by TeamIndus, that is hoped to launch sometime in 2019.\n\nThe science objectives of LUCI telescope are primarily to search for transient astronomic events such as supernovae, novae, tidal disruption events by massive black holes, and more exotic energetic sources such as superluminous supernovae and flashes from cosmic collisions which can be very energetic on all scales.\n\nLUCI would also look for faint asteroids and comets in the Solar System, especially for near-Earth objects (NEO) and potentially hazardous objects. The aims are focused on UV sources not accessible by the more sensitive large space missions. \n\nThe Earth's atmosphere absorbs and scatters UV photons, preventing observations of the active Universe. Placing a telescope on the surface of the Moon is advantageous because of its absence of atmosphere and ionosphere offers an unobstructed view of the space in all wavelengths. The Moon surface provides not just a stable platform, but an inexpensive and long-term access to observations in wavelengths not normally used by large orbital telescope missions. The only UV astronomical observations from the Moon to date were made by Apollo 16 team in 1972. LUCI project started in 2013 and is funded by the India department of science and technology. The telescope team is headed by Jayant Murthy.\n\nLUCI is a small technology demonstrator without 3-axis pointing freedom, so it will rely on the motion of the lunar sky. The optical system is a two-spherical mirror configuration and a double-pass corrector lens. Its primary lens is all-spherical measuring 30 cm transmitting light through the system to a photon-counting Charge-coupled device (CCD) detector which is sensitive to ultraviolet wavelengths. The detector is an 8 mm UV-sensitive CCD with the response between 200 - 900 nm, so the engineers placed a solar blind filter before the CCD to restrict the bandpass to 200 - 320 nm. \n\nLUCI is planned to be mostly contained within the lander, and it will be lowered back into its storage bay during the cold lunar nights. The baseline for LUCI's operation is \"a few months\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5273390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5273390", "title": "Man's Best Friend (1993 film)", "text": "Man's Best Friend (1993 film)\n\nMan's Best Friend is a 1993 American horror comedy film, directed and written by John Lafia. It stars Ally Sheedy, Lance Henriksen, Robert Costanzo, Frederic Lehne, John Cassini, and J. D. Daniels. It was released by New Line Cinema on November 19, 1993. The official tagline was \"Nature created him. Science perfected him. But no one can control him.\" The film's soundtrack was composed by Joel Goldsmith and its reception was mediocre. However, it was a modest success at the box office, grossing $12.9 million behind a $6 million budget.\n\nJudy Sanders (Robin Frates), an employee of a genetic research facility named EMAX, contacts television personality Lori Tanner (Ally Sheedy), planning to meet after work so she can show Lori the atrocities and animal cruelty that go on in EMAX's laboratories. As she proceeds back to work, an animal assailant attacks and kills her before being sedated by Dr. Jarret (Lance Henriksen), a scientist performing vivisection and genetic altering and the owner of EMAX. Later, Lori arrives at EMAX, breaks into the laboratory, films the various animals that are being experimented on, and frees a Tibetan Mastiff named Max before escaping with him. Jarret immediately goes to the police and reports that his dog has been stolen. Later that day, a mugger (Thomas Rosales, Jr.) steals Lori's purse, but Max chases the thief, brutally kills him, and retrieves the purse.\n\nUnaware that Max killed the mugger, Lori develops a bond with him, much to the disapproval of her boyfriend Perry (Fredric Lehne), who insists Max must stay in the backyard. However, Max can understand human conversations and becomes protective of Lori. Dr. Jarret is questioned by the police about Max and reveals that Max is a genetically altered dog, spliced with the DNA of various other animals such as big cats, snakes, chameleons, and birds of prey, giving him enhanced strength, speed, and senses. Max is also prone to violent rages, and Jarrett regularly gives him a drug to keep him relaxed, but he fears that it won't be long before the effects of the drug wear off.\n\nMax acts loyal, obedient, and lovable to Lori, but when her back is turned, he starts wreaking havoc in the neighborhood, terrorizing some local children (though he seems all right with Lori's young neighbor Rudy), devouring a cat, destroying the brake lines in Perry's truck, mating with Rudy's collie Heidi, and murdering a mail man (Rick Barker). All of these incidents go unnoticed by Lori. Realizing Max is trying to kill him, Perry tries to poison Max, but Max smells the poison in the meat and chases Perry out of the house. After Perry escapes in his truck, Max eats Lori's talking pet parrot and flushes the poisoned meat down the toilet.\n\nNoticing Perry's animosity towards their new dog, Lori decides to find Max a new home. She takes him to a junkyard and leaves him with the owner Ray (William Sanderson), who assures her that Max will be taken to a ranch in a few days. However, when Lori leaves, Ray chains Max to the wall and beats him with a shovel. When Max pulls loose from his chain, Ray burns his face with a blow torch but is quickly overpowered and killed. Max, now severely scarred, leaves the junkyard and makes his way back to Lori's house. The police, after discovering the dead mugger and having Dr. Jarret clarify that it was Max who killed him, now intend to stop Max at any cost. By the time Max returns to Lori's, Perry has replaced him with a new puppy named Spike. Max, feeling betrayed, burns Perry's face off with acidic urine and attacks Lori before the police arrive. Max then flees the house and evades the cops and an animal control unit by utilizing his genetic gifts.\n\nAs an ambulance takes Perry away, the police demand Lori's help to catch Max and wait for him. Max returns and kills the officers watching the house, which Lori soon discovers. In an attempt to get him back, Jarret kidnaps Lori and Spike in hopes that Max will follow them to the EMAX building, which he does. In the laboratory where she first discovered him, Max relinquishes his aggressive, homicidal nature and begins to kiss Lori's hand. Jarret shoots Max with a shotgun before being knocked onto a large electrical cage, which kills him. Lori pets Max's head as he dies.\n\nThree months later, Rudy's collie has given birth to puppies, most of which look like their mother, with the one exception being a small black puppy that resembles Max.\n\n\nAt least five different dogs were used in filming. Kevin Yagher built the Max puppets as well as created the make-up special effects.\n\nAdditional tag lines for the film include \"Companion. Protector. Killer.\" \"He'll bite the hand that feeds him...And then he'll eat the rest.\" \"His bark isn't half as bad...as his bite!\" and \"He makes Cujo look like Benji!\"\n\n\"Man's Best Friend\" was released in 1220 theaters on the Thanksgiving weekend of November 19, 1993. It opened at fifth place in the box office with $5 million.\n\"Man's Best Friend\" currently has a 20% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes. Kevin Thomas of \"Los Angeles Times\", noted that while \"cynical and shallow\", the film was \"polished in all aspects\". Despite this, Ally Sheedy was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Actress. Film critic Leonard Maltin gave it a moderately positive two-and-a-half-star review, calling it \"derivative, but fun.\"\n\nNew Line Home Video released the film on DVD on September 6, 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22058909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22058909", "title": "Medawar Lecture", "text": "Medawar Lecture\n\nThe Medawar Lecture was an annual lecture on the philosophy of science organised by the Royal Society of London in memory of Sir Peter Medawar. It was last delivered in 2004 after which it was merged with the Wilkins Lecture and the Bernal Lecture to form the Wilkins-Bernal-Medawar Lecture.\n"}
{"id": "11599021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11599021", "title": "Medicare fraud", "text": "Medicare fraud\n\nIn the United States, Medicare fraud is the claiming of Medicare health care reimbursement to which the claimant is not entitled. There are many different types of Medicare fraud, all of which have the same goal: to collect money from the Medicare program illegitimately.\n\nThe total amount of Medicare fraud is difficult to track, because not all fraud is detected and not all suspicious claims turn out to be fraudulent. According to the Office of Management and Budget, Medicare \"improper payments\" were $47.9 billion in 2010, but some of these payments later turned out to be valid. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that total Medicare spending was $528 billion in 2010.\n\nMedicare fraud is typically seen in the following ways:\n\n\nA 2011 crackdown on fraud charged \"111 defendants in nine cities, including doctors, nurses, health care company owners and executives\" of fraud schemes involving \"various medical treatments and services such as home health care, physical and occupational therapy, nerve conduction tests and durable medical equipment.\"\n\nThe \"Affordable Care Act of 2009\" provides an additional $350 million to pursue physicians who are involved in both intentional/unintentional Medicare fraud through inappropriate billing. Strategies for prevention and apprehension include increased scrutiny of billing patterns, and the use of data analytics. The healthcare reform law also provides for stricter penalties; for instance, requiring physicians to return any overpayments to CMS within 60 days time.\n\nIn recent years regulatory requirements tightened and law enforcement has stepped up.\n\nThe Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, as mandated by Public Law 95-452 (as amended), is to protect the integrity of Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) programs, to include Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as the health and welfare of the beneficiaries of those programs. The Office of Investigations for the HHS, OIG collaboratively works with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in order to combat Medicare Fraud.\n\nDefendants convicted of Medicare fraud face stiff penalties according to the Federal Sentencing Guidelines and disbarment from HHS programs. The sentence depends on the amount of the fraud. Defendants can expect to face substantial prison time, deportation (if not a US citizen), fines, and restitution.\n\nIn 1997, the federal government dedicated $100 million to federal law enforcement to combat Medicare fraud. That money pays over 400 FBI agents who investigate Medicare fraud claims. In 2007, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Attorney's Office, and the U.S. Department of Justice created the Medicare Fraud Strike Force in Miami, Florida. This group of anti-fraud agents has been duplicated in other cities where Medicare fraud is widespread. In Miami alone, over two dozen agents from various federal agencies investigate solely Medicare fraud. In May 2009, Attorney General Holder and HHS Secretary Sebelius Announce New Interagency Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) to combat Medicare fraud. FBI Director Robert Mueller stated that the FBI and HHS OIG has over 2,400 open health care fraud investigations.\n\nThe first \"National Summit on Health Care Fraud\" was held on January 28, 2010 to bring together leaders from the public and private sectors to identify and discuss innovative ways to eliminate fraud, waste and abuse in the U.S. health care system. The summit is the first national gathering on health care fraud between law enforcement and the private and public sectors and is part of the Obama Administration's coordinated effort to fight health care fraud.\n\nThe Justice Department has used the False Claims Act to recover more than $7.7 billion from January 2009 to June 2012 in cases involving fraud against federal health care programs.\n\nThe Columbia/HCA fraud case is one of the largest examples of Medicare fraud in U.S. history. Numerous \"New York Times\" stories, beginning in 1996, began scrutinizing Columbia/HCA's business and Medicare billing practices. These culminated in the company being raided by Federal agents searching for documents and eventually the ousting of the corporation's CEO, Rick Scott, by the board of directors. Among the crimes uncovered were doctors being offered financial incentives to bring in patients, falsifying diagnostic codes to increase reimbursements from Medicare and other government programs, and billing the government for unnecessary lab tests, though Scott personally was never charged with any wrongdoing. HCA wound up pleading guilty to more than a dozen criminal and civil charges and paying fines totaling $1.7 billion. In 1999, Columbia/HCA changed its name back to HCA, Inc.\n\nIn 2001, HCA reached a plea agreement with the U.S. government that avoided criminal charges against the company and included $95 million in fines. In late 2002, HCA agreed to pay the U.S. government $631 million, plus interest, and pay $17.5 million to state Medicaid agencies, in addition to $250 million paid up to that point to resolve outstanding Medicare expense claims. In all, civil lawsuits cost HCA more than $1.7 billion to settle, including more than $500 million paid in 2003 to two whistleblowers.\n\nThe DOJ Medicare fraud enforcement efforts rely heavily on healthcare professionals coming forward with information about Medicare fraud. Federal law allows individuals reporting Medicare fraud to receive full protection from retaliation from their employer and collect up to 30% of the fines that the government collects as a result of the whistleblower's information. According to US Department of Justice figures, whistleblower activities contributed to over $13 billion in total civil settlements in over 3,660 cases stemming from Medicare fraud in the 20-year period from 1987 to 2007.\n\nIn November 2009, Omnicare paid $98 million to the federal government to settle five qui tam lawsuits brought under the \"False Claims Act\" and government charges that the company had paid or solicited a variety of kickbacks. The company admitted no wrongdoing. The charges included allegations that Omnicare solicited and received kickbacks from a pharmaceutical manufacturer Johnson & Johnson, in exchange for agreeing to recommend that physicians prescribe Risperdal, a Johnson & Johnson antipsychotic drug, to nursing home patients.\n\nStarting in 2006, healthcare entrepreneur Adam B. Resnick sued Omnicare, a major supplier of drugs to nursing homes, under the False Claims Act, as well as the parties to the company's illegal kickback schemes. Omnicare allegedly paid kickbacks to nursing home operators in order to secure business, which constitutes Medicare fraud and Medicaid fraud. Omnicare allegedly had paid $50 million to the owners of the Mariner Health Care Inc. and SavaSeniorCare Administrative Services LLC nursing home chains in exchange for the right to continue providing pharmacy services to the nursing homes.\n\nIn 2010, Omnicare settled Resnick's False Claims Act suit that had been taken up by the U.S. Department of Justice by paying $19.8 million to the federal government, while Mariner and SavaSeniorCare settled for $14 million.\n\n\nIn September 2011, a nationwide takedown by Medicare Fraud Strike Force operations in eight cities resulted in charges against 91 defendants for their alleged participation in Medicare fraud schemes involving approximately $295 million in false billing.\n\nIn 2012, Medicare Fraud Strike Force operations in Detroit resulted in convictions against 2 defendants for their participation in Medicare fraud schemes involving approximately $1.9 million in false billing.\n\nVictor Jayasundera, a physical therapist, pleaded guilty on January 18, 2012 and was sentenced in the Eastern District of Michigan. In addition to his 30-month prison term, he was sentenced to three years of supervised release and was ordered to pay $855,484 in restitution, joint and several with his co-defendants.\n\nFatima Hassan, co-owned a company known as Jos Campau Physical Therapy with Javasundera, pleaded guilty on August 25, 2011, for her role in the Medicare fraud schemes and on May 17, 2012, was sentenced to 48 months in prison.\n\nIn May 2013, Federal officials charged 89 people including doctors, nurses, and other medical professionals in eight U.S. cities on Tuesday with Medicare fraud schemes that the government said totaled over $223 million in false billings. The bust took more than 400 law enforcement officers including FBI agents in Miami, Detroit, Los Angeles, New York and other cities to make the arrests.\n\nIn June 2015, Federal officials charged 243 people including 46 doctors, nurses, and other medical professionals with Medicare fraud schemes. The government said the fraudulent schemes netted approximately $712 million in false billings in what is the largest crackdown undertaken by the Medicare Fraud Strike Force. The defendants were charged in the Southern District of Florida, Eastern District of Michigan, Eastern District of New York, Southern District of Texas, Central District of California, Eastern District of Louisiana, Northern District of Texas, Northern District of Illinois and the Middle District of Florida.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "167389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167389", "title": "Memoir", "text": "Memoir\n\nA memoir (US: /ˈmemwɑːr/; from French: \"mémoire\": \"memoria\", meaning \"memory\" or \"reminiscence\") is a collection of memories that an individual writes about moments or events, both public or private, that took place in the subject's life. The assertions made in the work are understood to be factual. While memoir has historically been defined as a subcategory of biography or autobiography since the late 20th century, the genre is differentiated in form, presenting a narrowed focus. A biography or autobiography tells the story \"of a life\", while a memoir often tells a story \"from a life\", such as touchstone events and turning points from the author's life. The author of a memoir may be referred to as a \"memoirist\" or a \"memorialist\".\n\nMemoirs have been written since the ancient times, as shown by Julius Caesar's \"Commentarii de Bello Gallico\", also known as \"Commentaries on the Gallic Wars\". In the work, Caesar describes the battles that took place during the nine years that he spent fighting local armies in the Gallic Wars. His second memoir, \"Commentarii de Bello Civili\" (or \"Commentaries on the Civil War\") is an account of the events that took place between 49 and 48 BC in the civil war against Gnaeus Pompeius and the Senate. The noted Libanius, teacher of rhetoric who lived between an estimated 314 and 394 AD, framed his life memoir as one of his literary orations, which were written to be read aloud in the privacy of his study. This kind of memoir refers to the idea in ancient Greece and Rome, that memoirs were like \"memos\", or pieces of unfinished and unpublished writing, which a writer might use as a memory aid to make a more finished document later on.\n\nThe \"Sarashina Nikki\" is an example of an early Japanese memoir, written in the Heian period. A genre of diary writing, Nikki Bungaku, emerged during this time.\nIn the Middle Ages, Geoffrey of Villehardouin, Jean de Joinville, and Philippe de Commines wrote memoirs, while the genre was represented toward the end of the Renaissance, through the works of Blaise de Montluc and Margaret of Valois, that she was the first woman to write her \"Memoirs\" in modern-style. \n\nUntil the Age of Enlightenment encompassing the 17th and 18th centuries, works of memoir were written by Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 1st Earl of Shaftesbury; François de La Rochefoucauld, Prince de Marcillac of France; and Louis de Rouvroy, duc de Saint-Simon, who wrote \"Memoirs\" at his family's home at the castle of La Ferté-Vidame. While Saint-Simon was considered a writer possessing a high level of skill for narrative and character development, it wasn't until well after his death that his work as a memoirist was recognized, resulting in literary fame.\n\nOver the latter half of the 18th through the mid-20th century, memoirists generally included those who were noted within their chosen profession. These authors wrote as a way to record and publish their own account of their public exploits. Authors included politicians or people in court society and were later joined by military leaders and businessmen. An exception to these models is Henry David Thoreau's 1854 memoir \"Walden\", which presents his experiences over the course of two years in a cabin he built near Walden Pond.\n\nTwentieth-century war memoirs became a genre of their own, including, from the First World War, Ernst Jünger (\"Storm of Steel\") and Frederic Manning's \"Her Privates We\". Memoirs documenting incarceration by Nazi Germany during the war include Primo Levi's \"If This Is a Man\", which covers his arrest as a member of the Italian Resistance Movement, followed by his life as a prisoner in Auschwitz; and Elie Wiesel's \"Night\", which is based on his life prior to and during his time in the Auschwitz, Buna Werke, and Buchenwald concentration camps.\n\nIn the early 1990s, memoirs written by ordinary people experienced a sudden upsurge, as an increasing number of people realized that their ancestors’ and their own stories were about to disappear, in part as a result of the opportunities and distractions of technological advances. At the same time, psychology and other research began to show that familiarity with genealogy helps people find their place in the world and that life review helps people come to terms with their own past.\n\nWith the advent of inexpensive digital book production in the first decade of the 21st century, the genre exploded. Memoirs written as a way to pass down a personal legacy, rather than as a literary work of art or historical document, are emerging as a personal and family responsibility.\n\nThe Association of Personal Historians formed in Amherst, Massachusetts, in the early days of the modern memoir, as an international trade association for professionals who assist individuals, families, and organizations in documenting their life stories, preferably in archival formats.\n\nWith the expressed interest of preserving history through the eyes of those who lived it, some organizations work with potential memoirists to bring their work to fruition. The Veterans History Project, for example, compiles the memoirs of those who have served in a branch of the United States Armed Forces – especially those who have seen active combat.\n\n\nTime Magazine. Memoir Network.\n"}
{"id": "19508362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19508362", "title": "Morton Pumpkin Festival", "text": "Morton Pumpkin Festival\n\nThe Morton Pumpkin Festival is annual four-day festival organized and sponsored by the Morton Chamber of Commerce held in mid-September. The Morton Pumpkin Festival was first held in Morton, Illinois in 1967. The event now draws more than 75,000 attendees annually.\n\nIn 1978, Governor James R. Thompson declared Morton the “Pumpkin Capital of the World.”\n\nMorton's title of \"Pumpkin Capital of the World\" is tied to the presence of Nestle's Libby pumpkin plant, which processes more than 80 percent of the world's canned pumpkin.\n\nEach year, the Morton Chamber of Commerce selects a special theme for the Morton Pumpkin Festival. Festival themes are voted on by the general public while taking the annual Pumpkin Festival Survey in September. The top festival theme choices are then taken to the Pumpkin Festival Oversight Committee and the Morton Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors for the final selection. Themes are announced in January during the Morton Chamber of Commerce Annual Dinner. \n\nMany of the Pumpkin Festival events and activities including the Parades, Pageants, Entertainment, Competitions, and Opening Ceremonies incorporate costumes, music, and other elements in celebration of the annual theme.\n\nMany attendees of the festival come just for the food, especially the pumpkin flavored food. Beyond the usual fair/carnival favorites and pumpkin pie, some of the other items include pumpkin chili, pumpkin cookies, pumpkin doughnuts, pumpkin caramel shake, pumpkin ice cream and pumpkin fudge. \n\nThe marquee food-related event typically happens on the Saturday morning of the Pumpkin Festival. Saturday morning showcases the all-you-can-eat Pumpkin Pancake breakfast. One price includes all the pumpkin pancakes you can eat, sausage, coffee & milk. All served under a huge tent with local children providing breakfast-time entertainment.\n\nThe Punkin Chuckin' Contest is a tradition that involves giant contraptions that hurl, catapult, or shoot 5-10 pound pumpkins in the air into an open field. Competitors compete for the title of “Punkin' Chucker Supreme” with a one mile goal. The contest is now well over a decade old and is said to be modeled after the contest in Sussex County, Delaware the first weekend after Halloween, but Morton holds the world record for farthest pumpkin thrown.\nThe contest takes place in an open field over a span of two days. Around 500 pumpkins are picked in advance specifically for the contest which sports both a youth and an adult competition. The youth competition uses pumpkins from 5 to 8 pounds and the adult competition uses pumpkins from 8 to 10 pounds. Before the main throwing begins there is a safety meeting, during which there is also a “hand throwing contest” with a one dollar entry fee. The contest moves from the youth section into the adult, giving each team one throw, then moves back to the beginning and starts again giving each team a total of three contest throws. In between throws there are short breaks in which teams throw for fun and try to aim at old cars placed in the fields for targets. The contest is all about distance and at the end of the second day a winner is declared.\n\nThe Punkin Chuckin’ Contest has turned out some pretty amazing machines, from trebuchets to air cannons, but one machine holds a spot in the Guinness Book of World Records. The Q-36 Pumpkin Modulator is a long air cannon that fired a pumpkin for a world record (the record as of November 2010 is held by team Big 10 Inch at 5545.43 ft). The Q-36 has an barrel and a air tank and tips the scale at . A pumpkin leaving the tube flies at nearly but loses velocity quickly. This cannon has been seen on the Late Show with David Letterman as well as another famous device, the Acme Catapult, which saw airtime on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno in 2003.\n\nPerformances in 2008 included: Morton High School (Morton, Illinois) Chorale Group, Central Illinois Banjo Club, New Odyssey, Central Illinois Performing Arts Performers, Jim Markum Swing Band, Singsations, American English, and Bloomsday.\n"}
{"id": "7071971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7071971", "title": "Moscow Music Peace Festival", "text": "Moscow Music Peace Festival\n\nThe Moscow Music Peace Festival was a one-time gathering of high-profile hard rock acts for a performance in Moscow, Soviet Union on 12 and 13 August 1989 to promote world peace and establish international cooperation in fighting the drug war in Russia. It was part of an era of momentous change in the Soviet Union.\n\nThe show involved a large production team and logistics provided by Eurotruk. Generators powered the entire event as it was broadcast as a pay-per-view event by MTV. Catering came from the UK. There were direct-dial telephone lines from the production office, and satellite uplink from Bear Lake back to the USA.\n\nThe show production radios were the latest from the USA and some were encrypted. There was 6 Megawatts of power available from the generators.\n\nThe concert was put together by the Make a Difference Foundation, its founder, rock producer and manager Doc McGhee, Stas Namin and other major players in the Soviet Union and the United States. It is often stated that McGhee agreed to bring his artists to Moscow after becoming involved in a drug scandal himself and wishing to avoid a jail sentence, but he explicitly denied that in 2011. \"We always wanted to go over to Moscow and do the first rock show in the Soviet Union. I wanted to do their Woodstock.\" Since it had also been part of that plan that the proceeds would go to Make a Difference and doctors would be brought to the USSR to teach methods of treating addiction (Soviet doctors at the time primarily used electroshock therapy for that purpose), he did not expect the sentencing judge would have denied him the opportunity.\n\nMötley Crüe have been on record stating they were upset with McGhee at this point in time. They felt McGhee was favoring Bon Jovi, whom he also managed, and whom Crüe disdained. When Bon Jovi closed the show, they used pyrotechnics, which Mötley Crüe had been told they could not do (McGhee claims it was a malfunction on one side of the stadium that he did not hear because he was backstage). Sebastian Bach of Skid Row, whom McGhee also managed, says Tommy Lee went over to him and said \"Your manager's a fucking asshole\" and chugged most of a bottle of vodka Bach had been drinking (up to this point, Lee has said, it was the first time the band had done a show sober). Then he ran up to McGhee, punched him in the face and told him he could go manage The Chipmunks because he was no longer Mötley Crüe's manager. Bon Jovi fired him as well shortly afterwards. Lee and his bandmates were still so angry they refused to fly home on the same plane as McGhee.\n\nThe event was held over two days in Moscow's largest stadium, Central Lenin Stadium (now called Luzhniki Stadium), which has a seating capacity of about 100,000. However, as the concert used a proscenium stage rather than an arena stage, a thousands of seats behind the stage were not occupied. The event was the first rock concert to be held at the stadium, which had previously been used primarily for sporting events.\n\n\nEach band performed about a 5-song set. At the end of the concert a collaboration of musicians, featuring Vince Neil & Sebastian Bach on vocals and Jason Bonham on drums, performed a rendition of \"Rock and Roll\" by Led Zeppelin.\n\nThe performances were shown on TV and are recapped in a video directed by Wayne Isham. Bootlegged copies of the performances have been uploaded to the Internet.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe bands were all featured on the 1989 compilation album \"Stairway to Heaven/Highway to Hell\", put out the Make a Difference Foundation. Each band recorded a song originally by some famous rock artist who had suffered a drug- or alcohol-related death. These included songs from The Who, the Sex Pistols, Jimi Hendrix, Tommy Bolin, Thin Lizzy, and Janis Joplin, along with a collaboration for Led Zeppelin's \"Moby Dick\" (for John Bonham), and a live collaboration where the bands perform a medley of Elvis Presley and Led Zeppelin songs.\n\nNoted in books such as \"Bang Your Head: The Rise and Fall of Heavy Metal\", the concert also showcased the ego clashes which eventually helped lead to the collapse of glam metal shortly thereafter. Many of the bands argued over who went on before whom, and many were envious of Bon Jovi, who not only headlined the event and was far more considered to be pop music among the hard rock and heavy metal community, but also had a much more theatrical stage spectacle and longer set times; each band was supposed to do a stripped-down show with just music and no spectacular theatrics. Jon Bon Jovi supposedly offered his headlining spot to Ozzy Osbourne after Ozzy threatened to not go through with his set (a move many felt was calculated to further JBJ's 'boy next door' persona). Ozzy's set was initially scheduled before Mötley Crüe's set. Apparently, Ozzy felt his band was bigger and he should go on after Mötley Crüe. To solve the problem, Mötley Crüe went on before Ozzy but the tape was edited so it appeared Ozzy went on before Mötley Crüe to the viewers back in the U.S. Those involved in the show's production felt this was an egotistical bush move on Ozzy's behalf since this was supposed to be for charity, and left many in the rock 'n roll community confused since Ozzy and Mötley Crüe toured together for Ozzy's \"Bark at the Moon\" and Mötley Crüe's \"Shout at the Devil\" albums, respectively, and became fast friends during the tour.\n\nThe members of Mötley Crüe were so incensed about preferences shown to Bon Jovi that Tommy Lee punched manager Doc McGhee (who was also the manager for Bon Jovi) backstage at the venue (McGhee was fired shortly thereafter), opting to fly back to the US on their own. The concert was also often chided by the bands themselves as being hypocritical, as many of the musicians were drinking or using drugs at the time despite the ties with the Make a Difference Foundation.\n\nThe event became known for inspiring the song \"Wind of Change\" by the Scorpions, a ballad which became a soundtrack to the collapse of the Berlin Wall and the end of Soviet Union.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37859390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37859390", "title": "Nordic Game Jam", "text": "Nordic Game Jam\n\nNordic Game Jam is an annual game jam that takes place in Copenhagen, created in 2006 by Gorm Lai and the Danish chapter of the International Game Developers Association in collaboration with Jesper Juul (the IT University of Copenhagen) and Henriette Moos (Diginet Øresund). It is the biggest videogame-related event in Denmark and one of the largest game jams in the world, with 900 participants as of 2016. Participants are given a theme or series of restrictions at the beginning of the event and are then given around 40 hours to make a game around those. In 2009 it served as the flagship game jam and inspiration for Global Game Jam. The 2013 edition of Nordic Game Jam was for the first time held at Aalborg University – Copenhagen.\n\nParticipants in the Nordic Game Jam come from several Nordic countries as well as other countries around the world. People of all skill levels and from various fields are welcome, such as game designers, programmers, sound designers, graphic artists or simply those interested in learning how to make games.\n\nBefore the jam begins, participants are given some time to meet and form teams, encouraging partnering with new people. Afterwards the theme and restrictions for that year are released and the countdown begins.\n\nThe first Nordic Game Jam was held from January 27–29, 2006, at the IT University of Copenhagen. During the jam, 40 participants created 8 games in 48 hours.\n\nIn February 2007 the number of participants doubled to 80 with a total of 12 games created.\n\nFor 2008 the number of participants increased to the point of becoming the biggest game jam in the world at its time, with 150 participants and 19 games. The main theme for 2008 was \"Taboo\" and three constraints: the game had to loop, had to be playable with a controller and was required to be multiplayer.\n\nIn 2009 Nordic Game Jam became the flagship for the Global Game Jam, which started that same year during the same time. Chairman of the IGDA Education Special Interest Group Susan Gold organized an initiative with Ian Schreiber and Gorm Lai to have game jams around the globe in the same way as the Nordic Game Jam and with Nordic Game Jam as flaghsip, inspiration and model. A total of 157 participants took part in the jam and made around 29 games.\n\nFor 2010 Nordic Game Jam brought the at the time Microsoft Game Studios Creative Director Peter Molyneux as keynote speaker and member of the jury.\n\nIn 2011 Greg Costikyan was the keynote speaker.\n\nFor 2012 Senior Designer at BioWare Manveer Heir gave that year's keynote speech. A total of 350 participants attended that year.\n\nThe 2013 edition of Nordic Game Jam however brought several changes. Besides taking place in a new venue (Aalborg University in Copenhagen) it was also moved one week ahead of the Global Game Jam, separating itself from the global competition to allow participants to go to both Nordic Game Jam and a Global Game Jam event elsewhere the week after. The keynote speakers were Dennaton and Vlambeer. The event attracted a total of 470 participants.\n\nIn 2014, Nordic Game Jam took place at Aalborg University - Copenhagen again and had John Polson as the keynote speaker. The event had a total of 570 participants, and 110 games were created around the theme of privacy.\n\nIn 2015, the Nordic Game Jam hosted Steve Swink as the Keynote Speaker. The jam grew to more than 700 people, and centered around the theme: Obvious. The winning game was called \"The Wuuuuuuu\" - as it was controlled only by shouting into a microphone, all the jammers played it together during the final presentations.\n\nThe 2016 edition hosted over 900 participants and created 182 games. The Keynote speech was held by Kevin Martens & Jesse MacCree from Blizzard, the theme was \"Leak\" (and was therefore it was revealed before the jam), and the winning game was \"Random Access Murder\". The jam again took place at the Aalborg University Copenhagen, but the Award Ceremony was moved to Imperial Cinema.\n\nIn 2017 the jam changed the location - it took place at Docken, Copenhagen. On 21-23 April 2017, 700 participants created games under a theme 'Not there'. The winner of the jam was \"Baba is you\" by Hempuli.\n\nIn 2018 the jam changed location again - it took place at TAP1, Copenhagen. On 13-16 April 2018, 700 participants created games under the theme 'Breaking Point'. The winner of the jam was \"ON-LINE\" by Peter Witt, Ronnie Vilhelmsen, Przemysław Krowiński, Jesper Helleskov Sørensen and Jens Peter Larsen.\n"}
{"id": "2956898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2956898", "title": "Operation Eastern Exit", "text": "Operation Eastern Exit\n\nOperation Eastern Exit was the codename given to the military evacuation of the United States embassy in Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia, in January 1991. In late December 1990, violence quickly enveloped the city as armed militants began clashing with government soldiers. On 1 January 1991, the US Ambassador to Somalia, James Keough Bishop, contacted the Department of State requesting an evacuation of the embassy, which was approved the following day. United States Central Command began planning and mobilizing forces that evening. The initial plan was to evacuate with a military transport plane through the Mogadishu International Airport, but this was later abandoned. A helicopter evacuation via the and was the remaining option.\n\nOn the morning of 5 January, a 60-person Marine and Navy SEAL security detail was dispatched from \"Guam\" aboard two CH-53E \"Super Stallion\" helicopters to secure the embassy and prepare for the main evacuation. The two helicopters returned to \"Guam\" with the first 61 evacuees. Throughout the day, foreign diplomats and civilians sought refuge at the embassy. Four waves of five CH-46 \"Sea Knight\" helicopters each evacuated the embassy compound shortly after midnight on 6 January. The evacuees were transported to Muscat, Oman, where they disembarked on 11 January. In total, 281 diplomats and civilians from 30 countries were evacuated, including 12 heads of missions (eight ambassadors and four chargés d'affaires).\n\nIn the late 1980s, there was increasing rebellion against the rule of Somali President Siad Barre, a military dictator who maintained tight control of power and had a record of human rights abuses. By 1990, what began as civil disobedience evolved into a civil war, with several militias organized to overthrow the central government.\n\nIn July 1989, the embassy moved to a new, compound, from the previous embassy and James K. Bishop was appointed as the United States' ambassador to Somalia. Ambassador Bishop had significant experience in crisis management at US embassies. In 1967, he was at the US Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon when the Six-Day War erupted. About 3,600 Americans were evacuated in 33 hours; Bishop was one of 26 diplomats and soldiers that remained in the city. As deputy assistant secretary of state for Africa from 1981–87, Bishop chaired several task forces for crises and gained experience in the State Department's operations center as evacuations were carried out during several coups d'etat. During his previous assignment as Ambassador to Liberia (1987–90), Bishop was overseeing the voluntary evacuation of embassy staff and civilians as a civil war in Liberia spread, when he left in March 1990. Soon after returning to Washington to prepare for his new appointment to Somalia, he was appointed to a taskforce to deal with the crisis in Liberia, which included a gradual evacuation of American civilians and a rapid closure of the embassy in August.\n\nOn 1 August, before leaving the US to take up his post in Mogadishu, Ambassador Bishop visited United States Central Command—the military command for the Middle East and northeast Africa—where he spent most of the day with its commander, Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf. Ambassador Bishop, aware of the ongoing strife, believed \"the odds were better than even that we would have to leave Mogadishu under less than favorable circumstances.\" Ambassador Bishop understood from his past experiences in Beirut and Liberia the importance of being prepared to deal with emergencies and spent the afternoon working with military experts to review the embassy's Emergencies and Evacuation (E&E) plan until he was \"satisfied...that [Central Command] realized that it might have to conduct an evacuation from Mogadishu and was prepared to do that.\" In its analysis of Operation Eastern Exit, the Center for Naval Analyses cited the Ambassador Bishop's previous experience and \"clear understanding of his role\" in the operation as one of the reasons Operation Eastern Exit went so well.\n\nHours after Ambassador Bishop's visit to Central Command, Iraq invaded Kuwait. In 1979, the US negotiated access to an airport and port in both Mogadishu and Berbera; because of limited access the US had to locations in the Persian Gulf area, maintaining this access was a main interest for the Mogadishu embassy to pursue as the US mobilized to intervene in Kuwait.\n\nAn increasing level of criminal violence prompted Ambassador Bishop to request the voluntary evacuation of dependents (e.g. children and spouses of staff) and non-essential staff in early December, although fighting between the government and the United Somali Congress (a rebel militia) remained no less than about away. The voluntary evacuation later became a mandatory evacuation. By 19 December, the number of official US personnel in the city was reduced from 147 to 37; around the same time, fighting between the government and rebels came within about of Mogadishu.\n\nOn 30 December, violence escalated \"an order of magnitude\" as militants entered Mogadishu, which was quickly enveloped by a general state of lawlessness. On 30–31 December, diplomats, including many stationed in offices elsewhere in the city, were collected and housed in the embassy compound, except two volunteers who remained in the embassy's \"K-7\" residential apartments located across Afgoy Road from the embassy. The volunteers in the K-7 building would be needed as look-outs for the embassy compound's main gate. On the morning of 31 December, the defense attaché was nearly killed when his vehicle was sprayed with bullets and that evening, a soldier at a roadblock shot the tires of a vehicle carrying another defense official. Attempts by the US and other nations' diplomats, in particular the Italian embassy, to negotiate a ceasefire for foreigners to leave were unsuccessful. Afgoy Road became a \"shooting gallery,\" preventing those in safe-havens outside the embassy from reaching it. On New Year's Day, the first American civilians began to seek refuge at the embassy.\n\nAmbassador Bishop requested an evacuation of the American community on 1 January, indicating that the evacuation could be with the planned Italian, French, or German evacuation efforts, but preferred an evacuation by the US military. The State Department authorized the evacuation on 2 January and on that day, Ambassador Bishop specifically requested an evacuation by the US military, thereby initiating Operation Eastern Exit. Ambassador Bishop had spent a considerable amount of time discussing contingency plans for evacuation with other diplomatic posts. Ultimately, ten heads of missions—eight ambassadors and two chargés d'affaires—along with their staff sought refuge in the US embassy compound and were evacuated.\n\nAmbassador Bishop had visited Central Command in August 1990, where he worked with military experts to update the embassy's E&E plan. The first notice that an evacuation of the Mogadishu embassy would be needed came on the morning of 1 January, when the top naval commander at Central Command sent a message to his naval operations staff: \"Better have Amphib crowd take a look at a helo NEO of Mogadishu! time/distance to get there from Masirah OP area.\" Following the ambassador's 2 January evacuation request, the commander of Central Command ordered Air Force aircraft to the region, the movement of amphibious ships to Mogadishu, and requested United States Special Operations Command to prepare for a noncombatant evacuation operation.\n\nThe initial plan was to evacuate via Mogadishu International Airport. Soon after the evacuation request, the United States Air Force deployed C-130 transport planes and an AC-130, for gunfire support, to Nairobi, Kenya, awaiting clearances to enter Somalia and the ability to safely transfer evacuees from the embassy to the airport. However, the US and other foreign embassies were unable to contact anyone within the government to obtain clearances. It also became apparent that the rebels had an ineffective command-and-control structure, making it impossible to negotiate any ceasefire or guarantee of safe passage. Likewise, government troops faced a command-and-control problem; reports indicated that army units were separating along clan lines, in some cases soldiers shot officers of a different clan when given orders they disagreed with. Thus, it became clear that safe passage to the airport would not be possible. Several other nations also had aircraft mobilized to reach Mogadishu, but faced the same problems of landing and transit of evacuees to the airport.\n\nOn 4 January, several incidents, including a couple exchanges of gunfire, suggested that the embassy's security detail was insufficient to hold off armed Somalis until the USS \"Guam\" and USS \"Trenton\" arrived with their helicopters and soldiers, at that time scheduled to arrive on 7 January. The embassy had just six Marine guards, whose job was limited to protecting the chancery. Ambassador Bishop made an urgent request to Washington for two platoons of soldiers to parachute into the embassy to defend it until the ships arrived. The request was denied, but the Ambassador was told that an advance element from the vessels would reach the embassy the following morning.\nUSS \"Guam\" and USS \"Trenton\" began transit from the coast of Oman towards Mogadishu at 22:30 (23:30 Oman time) on 2 January. The commander of Amphibious Group Two had initially proposed a seven-ship Amphibious Task Group, composed of vessels anchored at Masirah Island (off Oman) and Dubai and including four amphibious ships so that the full range of amphibious capabilities would be available for the operation. However, intervention in Kuwait seemed imminent and the commander of naval forces at Central Command did not want to divert that many ships from the Persian Gulf, thus the decision to send two of the closest ships. Although the two vessels were selected by mid-afternoon on 2 January, the transfer of some personnel from Dubai to Masirah caused a delay of eight to ten hours. \"Guam\" and \"Trenton\" carried forces from the 4th Marine Expeditionary Brigade, including a detachment of CH-53E \"Super Stallion\" helicopters—the largest helicopters operated by the US military—and two squadrons of CH-46 \"Sea Knight\" helicopters.\nPlanning began in earnest as the ships got underway, with a combined command center on \"Guam\". On the morning of 3 January, the task force's command questioned why they were not given the option of an amphibious landing and requested a tank landing ship be added to the task force; the request was denied. A warrant officer who had previously served as a Marine Security Guard at the Mogadishu embassy during the mid-1980s was found. Despite Ambassador Bishop's planning with Central Command, the task force was provided outdated information. The former MSG told planners that a new embassy had been planned and was under construction several years prior. In fact, the new embassy was located further inland and, after receiving updated information, task force commanders determined that a beach landing, requiring troops to fight their way across the city, was too risky. Initial plans had the ships launch their helicopters at 01:00 on 7 January. However, in response to indications from Ambassador Bishop that conditions in Mogadishu were deteriorating, planners considered and, later, flights with the CH-53Es while the ships were still located in the northern Arabian Sea. The situation in Mogadishu stabilized somewhat and the mission was delayed until 5 January.\n\nOn the evening of 4 January, the final execute order was issued for a 02:45 launch of two CH-53E Super Stallions to arrive at the embassy at dawn. The 60 soldiers selected for the security detail were issued weapons and ammunition. Two Marine Corps KC-130 refueling tankers were mobilized closer to the operation, from Bahrain to Oman, to refuel the helicopters en route to Mogadishu and the two helicopters transferred from \"Trenton\" to \"Guam\".\n\nTwo CH-53E Super Stallions carrying a 60-man security detail—51 Marines and nine Navy SEALs—departed \"Guam\" at 02:47, from the embassy, and were expected to arrive at 06:20. They performed two aerial refuelings. During the first refueling, a pipe burst on one of the helicopters, dousing soldiers in fuel and nearly forcing a return to the \"Guam\"; problems with the helicopters' navigation system also complicated the refueling rendezvous. The helicopters arrived in Mogadishu at dawn, crossing the coast just south of the harbor at in altitude on a route that was planned to avoid areas of more intense violence reported in the northern parts of the city. On their arrival in Mogadishu, the crew of the helicopters were using an outdated 1969 map, which showed the embassy in an isolated area. Furthermore, they had been told the embassy could be discerned by its white stucco perimeter wall and golf course. The embassy was, in fact, surrounded by new development and the crew saw white stucco walls around many buildings in the city. The helicopters were flying too low to spot a strobe light which was placed on the embassy's water tower (the highest point within the embassy compound) and the golf course in the embassy compound had a black, oil-coated surface—not the familiar green grass that the helicopter crew would recognize.After breaking radio silence (their only direct communication with the embassy was unencrypted) to contact the embassy, they were able to discern it and land at 07:10. As they arrived, a group of about 100 to 150 Somalis were attempting to enter the embassy compound via ladders on the wall, but scattered as the helicopters arrived.\n\nThe security detail moved to establish a perimeter around the embassy compound and the Air Force's AC-130 arrived to provide overhead support. Ambassador Bishop gave the security detail clear instructions on the rules of engagement: they could only use deadly force if people came over the embassy compound's walls with obvious hostile intent. He also identified three zones of defense, stating a preference to retreat to the third zone before the use of deadly force:\nAmbassador Bishop clearly explained his rationale to the security detail, which was to avoid any impression that they were intervening in the violence in Mogadishu. He feared that the embassy would be targeted by organized attacks if any group involved in the clashes got the impression that the US was intervening in the conflict. To this effect, he requested the Voice of America and BBC broadcast announcements that the forces were present only to evacuate the embassy and would not interfere in the conflict. The Marines who had been doused in fuel during the refueling were able to take a shower and wash their clothes.\nAfter an hour on the ground, the helicopters left with the first 61 evacuees, including all American civilians and four heads of mission. Evacuees were provided blankets on one of the flights to remain warm. Complications with the only in-flight refueling on the return nearly prevented refueling, which would have forced the helicopters to divert to the Somali desert and await a rescue. At 9:40, the helicopters arrived on \"Guam\" and unloaded the evacuees.\n\nNo threats came upon the embassy during the day, although truckloads of armed Somalis frequently drove by the embassy along Afghoy Road. Only one incident seemed to directly target the embassy. A sniper and a spotter were positioned on the embassy's water tower (the highest structure in the compound) and came under fire; they were ordered to not return fire and soon thereafter ordered to leave their position on the water tower.\n\nThe Office of Military Cooperation, just one and a half blocks from the embassy, required evacuation. Despite its proximity to the embassy, an armed convoy was needed to evacuate persons trapped there by the unrest. A convoy of vehicles with several Marines and SEALs left the embassy at 8:47 and returned ten minutes later with 22 persons from the OMC (four Americans, a Filipino, and 17 Kenyans). This was the only excursion outside the embassy by the security detail. Throughout the day, foreign diplomats contacted the embassy desiring to be evacuated; the US welcomed these requests, but required all of them to find their own transportation to the embassy.\n\nA Somali officer who had a previous relationship with the embassy, Major Siad, agreed to travel to rescue the German chargé d'affaires and British ambassador (junior staff from the British embassy had previously come to the US embassy). The Soviet Union was unable to land a plane in Mogadishu the previous day and the Soviet ambassador asked Ambassador Bishop if he and his staff could be rescued; Ambassador Bishop, a tennis partner of his Soviet counterpart, agreed but only if they found their own way to the embassy. Seeing the helicopters on the morning of 5 January, they realized the Americans would not remain in the city much longer. At the request of Ambassador Bishop, Major Siad agreed to transport the Soviets, but only if he was paid enough; the US embassy paid Major Siad, who returned with the Soviet ambassador and 38 of his staff. The brother of President Barre, who was also a Major General and Chief of Police, showed up at the embassy in the afternoon with 25 members of his family requesting to be evacuated, but was turned away after a vocal conversation with the ambassador.\n\nThe operation did not include soldiers to handle the evacuation control center (ECC), which was set up in the JAO. A 44-person force consisting primarily of soldiers to handle the ECC was planned for insertion with the CH-53E \"Super Stallions\" after they had returned to the \"Guam\". However, this was cancelled over objections from the commander of the security detail. The deficit was partially handled by embassy staff who assisted a few soldiers from the security detail. The evacuees were grouped into 15-person \"sticks\" to be loaded onto the helicopters and were limited to one piece of luggage apiece. Some attempted to bring more, resulting in problems coordinating their evacuation. Furthermore, many evacuees had pets they wanted to bring, which were not allowed. Most pets were killed by their owners; some were given poison. Meanwhile, the soldiers were allowed to consume anything they wanted from the embassy's commissary, such as candy, sodas, and souvenirs (most had been stationed on ships for several months). They were also allowed use or take anything they needed from the embassy; the medic filled several bags with medical supplies to return to the ship.\n\nAs evening approached, work began to prepare the HLZ for the main evacuation. The area was used as a parking lot and several vehicles were left without keys by staff that had already been evacuated. Some cars had to be broken into to be moved. Chemical lights were placed in the HLZ in a NATO \"Y\" pattern. The entire mission would be conducted with night vision goggles, which required all lights in the embassy compound to be turned off.\n\nThe main evacuation occurred in the early morning hours of 6 January and consisted of four waves of five CH-46 helicopters. The timing of this phase was determined by range of the CH-46 \"Sea Knight\", which lack aerial refueling capability; the ships were about away during this phase. An AC-130 was sent from Saudi Arabia to provide gunfire support during the evacuation and two UH-1 \"Iroquois\" helicopters were on standby to provide gunfire support, but were not deployed.\n\nThe first wave departed \"Guam\" at 23:43. As the second wave landed, Major Siad arrived at the embassy gate accompanied by two truckloads of soldiers and held a grenade in one hand and a radio in the other. His request to speak with the ambassador was granted. Major Siad demanded that the evacuation cease immediately because the Somali government had not granted the US permission to carry out such a military operation. He claimed that he would radio soldiers to shoot down the helicopters if the operation continued. The second and third waves were able to depart without incident as the ambassador negotiated with the Major, who finally agreed to settle the matter for several thousand dollars in cash and keys to the ambassador's armored car. Ambassador Bishop remained engaged in conversation with the Major until he reached the helicopter landing zone to depart with the final wave to prevent the Major from reneging on the deal. The final wave departed the embassy at 1:49 and landed on \"Guam\" at 2:23; twenty minutes later, Ambassador Bishop declared the evacuation complete.\n\nArmed looters were observed entering the embassy compound as the final wave departed. The doors of the chancery—the main building of the embassy—were reportedly blown open by RPGs within two hours of the embassy's evacuation. Somali employees of the embassy—known as foreign service nationals (FSNs)—could not be evacuated. Ambassador Bishop tried unsuccessfully to have these employees airlifted to safer parts of Somalia. Many of the FSNs had sought refuge in the embassy with their families and about 30 were hired as guards and protected the embassy throughout the ordeal. Local banks had been closed for some time and the embassy was unable to pay the FSNs. The Ambassador left the FSNs with keys to the commissary and warehouse on the embassy compound and they were permitted to take anything they needed.\n\nA total of 281 evacuees were taken from the embassy, including 12 heads of missions (eight ambassadors and four chargés d'affaires) and 61 Americans (including Ambassador Bishop and 36 embassy staff). The heads of mission were the ambassadors of the United States, Kenya, Nigeria, Soviet Union, Sudan, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, and United Kingdom and the chargés of the embassies of Germany, Kuwait, Oman, and Qatar.\n\nRather than disembark in nearby Mombasa, as originally thought by the evacuees, the ships were ordered back to Oman—a five-day journey. The sailors and marines made way for the evacuees to share living quarters. When the chaplain of \"Guam\" asked crew to sign up as guides for the evacuees while aboard the vessel, two hundred signed up within an hour, and some of the sailors even dressed up as clowns to ease the ordeal for children. At the request of the ambassadors, a formal session with the ships' senior officers was held to express their thanks. On 11 January, the evacuees were offloaded at Muscat, Oman. That afternoon, the American evacuees were flown to Frankfurt, Germany, from where they continued home.\n\n"}
{"id": "783883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=783883", "title": "Oxegen", "text": "Oxegen\n\nOxegen was a music festival in Ireland, first held from 2004–2011 as a rock and pop festival and again in 2013 with dance and chart acts only. The event was regularly cited as Ireland's biggest music festival, and, by 2009, it was being cited as the greenest festival, being a 100% carbon neutral event in Ireland. It was previously called Witnness, which ran from 2000 and was sponsored by Guinness. The event is promoted by MCD and is sponsored by Heineken. Oxegen was originally a three-day festival, but from 2008 onwards, it was expanded to four days.\n\nIt took place at the Punchestown Racecourse in County Kildare, Ireland and has an average attendance of around 60,000 a day, with around 50,000 of these camping on site for the duration, and the rest travelling to the site each day. It takes place on the same weekend as T in the Park in Scotland and shares a very similar lineup each year, but Oxegen is generally regarded as Ireland's version of the Glastonbury Festival, with the 2008 festival sharing three of the same headliners as its English counterpart.\n\nOxegen has attracted significant attention from outside Ireland, with many of those attending travelling from overseas experiencing a \"mass exodus\" to the festival. Members of bands such as The Killers, Snow Patrol and R.E.M. have spoken positively of their experiences at the festival. Celebrities frequently attend, including models Helena Christensen (a regular attendant) and television personality Chris Pontius, actor Josh Hartnett, and Ronnie Wood of The Rolling Stones, who was pursued by \"half the journalists in the country\" and many of his own relatives for much of the 2008 festival. The event has also attracted some negative publicity, particularly following the 2006 festival. This is attributed to such factors as the age of admission (17) and easy access to alcohol.\n\nOxegen, for two consecutive years, was named as the Best European Festival in a poll which included festivals from France, Netherlands, Spain, United Kingdom and other countries, leading \"The Sunday Business Post\"s Nicola Cooke to describe it as \"one of the most successful music festivals in Ireland has\". Leagues O'Toole has described it as an \"enormously successful, award-winning, established brand [...] aimed at a young audience out for a good time, a post-Leaving Cert rite of passage perfect for acts with big singalong tunes that sound great in the mud\". Oxegen received a mention in the Colum McCann short story \"Aisling\".\n\nIn April 2014, organisers announced that the Oxegen festival would not be going ahead that year, citing a lack of suitable headline acts.\n\nOxegen first took place in 2004 over the second weekend in July. The Killers, who went on to headline the festival twice in 2007 and 2009, were one of the bands to appear at the first Oxegen. Dave Keuning, in an interview with \"Hot Press\" prior to the 2009 festival, described Oxegen as \"a big deal because it's one of the first European festivals we played when we came over from Vegas in 2004. We only had one hit—\"Mr. Brightside\"—and were worried in case no one showed. But the tent was packed with people screaming out the words to songs we didn't think they knew. It was that night we thought, 'Hey, something's happening here!' Oxegen more so than Glastonbury even was the highlight of our summer.\"\n\nThe original festival, Witnness, sponsored by Guinness, took place during the start of August with notable headliners, including Oasis, The Foo Fighters and Green Day. In its second and third year, running changed its dates to the second weekend of July. In 2008 Oxegen became a three-day festival.\n\nRodrigo y Gabriela made their breakthrough after being asked by Damien Rice to perform with him at Oxegen 2004.\n\nThe Japanese Popstars formed after viewing several dance acts at Oxegen 2006.\n\nR.E.M. members Michael Stipe and Peter Buck watched several shows from side stage at Oxegen 2007 before returning to headline the festival the following year. Stipe credits his 2007 visit with inspiring him to want to go on tour again, saying: \"I saw all these great bands and the next day after the festival we went into the studio.\"\n\nMuse, known for their spectacular light show and their reputation as one of the best live bands in the world, headlined Oxegen 2007. They returned to headline the mainstage on the Saturday night of the 2010 festival.\n\nBattles played the biggest festival show of their career at that time in the Pet Sounds Arena during Oxegen 2008. The Prodigy played four new songs at Oxegen 2008. Also in 2008, Interpol were sent champagne by U2 as they arrived for rehearsals.\n\nChad Wolf of Carolina Liar described the band's performance at Oxegen 2009 as \"an out-of-body experience\".\n\nEach Oxegen has been defined by the attention focused on its own weather, with \"The Belfast Telegraph\" referring to 2005 as \"the sunny one\", 2006 as \"the torrentially rainy one\", 2007 as \"the muddy one\" and 2008 as \"the so-so one\".\n\nAs well as the current eight stages of music, there are three large areas for camping which are subdivided by number and the colours blue, red and green – which is the VIP campsite. The backstage and media areas are located in the middle of the site in the buildings normally used to watch the races. Stalls and shops are also provided for festival-goers, as well as toilet and shower areas for campers from 2006 onwards.\n\nA Centra store was located in each campsite from 2007 onwards and An Post first appeared at the festival in 2008.\nThe toilet facilities, which had previously been criticised by some as not being adequate for the large number of people at the festival, were improved in recent years. There is also a funfair adjacent to the arena, featuring a big wheel and other rides, such as the \"Magic Carpet\", the \"Big Drop\", and the roller coaster. In 2008, an additional funfair was located in the blue campsite alongside other campsite entertainment such as a circus, silent disco and the Xbox Live Stage. Glass in any form is banned from the festival site and bottle corks, cans and umbrellas are banned from the concert arena.\n\n52 miles of fencing are used across the site. 14 megawatts of power are used to energise Oxegen, with 28,000 miles of cable used to transfer this power. 25,000 litre water tankers are located around the site. Hats and cloaks are regularly seen, whilst wellies are also commonly worn by festival-goers.\n\nThe Dance Arena is a large shed previously used for ideal homes exhibitions.\n\nOxegen 2004 took place at Punchestown Racecourse from 10 to 11 July. The Strokes, The Cure,\nBasement Jaxx, The Darkness, Faithless, Kings of Leon, PJ Harvey, Wu-Tang Clan, The Libertines, Muse, Massive Attack, Keane, Franz Ferdinand, Chemical Brothers, Belle & Sebastian, Scissor Sisters, Elbow, Electric Six, Ocean Colour Scene, The Complete Stone Roses and Cartoon are some of the bands that played at the 2004 festival which took place over five stages. Orbital played their last ever Irish show at the festival, whilst The Black Eyed Peas performed in Ireland for the first time in over two years. The Killers, Republic of Loose and Razorlight were among the bands headlining the New Band Stage. Other Irish acts to appear included Ash, The Divine Comedy, Hothouse Flowers, The Saw Doctors, HAL, Snow Patrol, The Devlins, Simple Kid, Maria Doyle Kennedy, Cathy Davey and Bell X1. David Bowie was due to headline the festival but had to pull out due to illness. Kings of Leon's performance was threatened by an incident at Roskilde the weekend before Oxegen when Nathan Followill injured his wrist but, despite the cancellation of a midweek show in Serbia, the band turned up for Oxegen.\n\nTickets sold out a week before the event, having gone on sale on Friday 5 March. One-day tickets cost €59.50, two-day tickets were priced at €110.00 whilst a two-day ticket with camping included cost €130.00.\n\nThe main acts that played the festival were:\n\nOxegen 2005 took place at Punchestown Racecourse from 9 to 10 July. Green Day and Foo Fighters headlined. Also appearing were New Order, Ian Brown, James Brown, The Prodigy, Queens of the Stone Age, The Frames, Keane, Feeder, The Killers, Bloc Party, Kaiser Chiefs, Kasabian, The Bravery, Nine Black Alps, The Departure, Razorlight, LCD Soundsystem, Echo & the Bunnymen, The La's and Snoop Dogg. Irish acts to appear included The Revs, The Saw Doctors, Kerbdog, HAL, Bronagh Gallagher, Humanzi, Director and The Blizzards.\n\n\"For full line-up, see Oxegen 2005#2005 Line-up.\"\n\nThe main acts that played the festival were:\nOxegen 2006 took place at Punchestown Racecourse from 8 to 9 July. A limited number of tickets for the festival went on sale a week after the 2005 festival on Friday 15 July. On 20 February the festival was launched and the first acts were officially announced. Tickets went on general sale on Friday 3 March at 8 am, with weekend camping tickets priced at €160. This allocation of tickets sold out within 48 minutes. The festival itself encountered bad weather which eclipsed previous records. There were improvements on the Sunday afternoon with sunny skies and a cool, gentle breeze ensuring a decrease in wet festival-goers.\n\nThe Who and Red Hot Chili Peppers headlined the festival, the former performing live in Ireland for the first time in 35 years, the latter for the fourth time in five summers. James Brown made his last ever live performance at an Irish festival and Arctic Monkeys their first festival appearance in Ireland. Also appearing were The Strokes, Franz Ferdinand, Kaiser Chiefs, Placebo, Richard Ashcroft, Primal Scream, Editors, Feeder, The Kooks, Kasabian, Sigur Rós, The Feeling, The Futureheads, The Go! Team, The Automatic, Paolo Nutini and Lily Allen. Irish acts to appear included Bell X1, Damien Dempsey, Republic of Loose, Director, The Marshals, Sharon Shannon, The Blizzards, The Divine Comedy, Gemma Hayes and Humanzi.\n\nSecurity arrangements were criticised as being poor by some sections of the media. The camp-site was not free from trouble, with reports of tent-burning and an alleged stabbing on the Sunday night/Monday morning of the festival.\nIn the Green Room a considerable leak allowed rain into the enclosed marquee. There were 225 arrests for drugs (with 13 charged for possession with intent to supply), one alleged rape, and the \"Evening Herald\" reported that around 250 people were treated for alcohol and drug abuse. When 40 people were sent to Naas General Hospital, fears were raised of a bad batch of ecstasy, but no evidence of such a batch was found. A number of media outlets were threatened with legal action on their coverage of Oxegen 2006 in its aftermath. These included the \"Irish Independent\" and boards.ie, where all discussion of MCD events and venues was banned.\n\n\"For full line-up, see Oxegen 2006#Stages.\"\n\nThe main acts that played the festival were:\nOxegen '07 took place at Punchestown Racecourse from 7 to 8 July. The Live Earth concerts occurred around the world on the same day as the Saturday of Oxegen 2007. Tickets went on general sale at 8 am on Friday 2 March 2007. These sold out in under seventy minutes. The price of a day ticket rose to €96.50, a weekend ticket cost €177.50, whilst the price of a weekend ticket plus camping this year rose to €197.50 (roughly the same price as a three-day Electric Picnic ticket), as compared to €160 in 2006. As in 2006, it was possible to purchase four weekend camping tickets together and receive a free car parking ticket. As with previous years, a number of pre-sale tickets without the price increase went on sale in November 2006.\n\nThe headliners were Muse and The Killers. Also playing the festival were Arcade Fire, Scissor Sisters, Razorlight, Bloc Party, Daft Punk, Kings of Leon, Brian Wilson, Interpol, The Kooks, Mika, My Chemical Romance, Avril Lavigne, Queens of the Stone Age, The Goo Goo Dolls, Editors, Klaxons, Maxïmo Park and The Fratellis. Irish acts that played included The Blizzards, Director, The Thrills, The Coronas, David Kitt, Delorentos, Dirty Epics and Sinéad O'Connor. Amy Winehouse pulled out at the last minute whilst The Immediate split up on the same day that they were announced.\n\n\"For full line-up, see Oxegen 2007#2007 Line-up.\"\n\nThe main acts that played the festival were:\nOxegen '08 was a three-day event, a first for the festival. It took place from Friday 11 July until Sunday 13 July at Punchestown Racecourse in Naas, County Kildare. Presale tickets went on sale at 8:00 am on Friday 30 November 2007 at a cost of €197. Actual sale tickets went on sale at 8:00 am on Friday 7 March 2008 but failed to sell out until 7 May. Extra tickets went on sale on 20 June in “a move to combat touting”.\n\nKings of Leon were the first band to be announced on 27 November 2007 at 5:00 pm They headlined the opening night of the festival. On 15 February 2008 R.E.M. were confirmed for Oxegen 2008, headlining the Saturday night. On 19 February at 16:29, Kaiser Chiefs, The Raconteurs and Ian Brown were announced on the official website, followed by The Fratellis, Interpol and Counting Crows the next day. The Chemical Brothers and Justice were amongst those added on 21 February, whilst on 22 February Rage Against the Machine were the last of the headliners to be confirmed. On Sunday 24 February, The Verve were confirmed on the official website for an appearance at Oxegen 2008, performing last on the Main Stage on the Saturday. In the following months more bands were announced including Stereophonics, The Prodigy, Panic! at the Disco, The Feeling, Editors, Kate Nash, Bowling for Soup, The Hoosiers, Newton Faulkner, Scouting for Girls, The Zutons, Battles, The Wombats, The Subways, Ben Folds, The Stranglers, Amy Macdonald, Alphabeat, Amy Winehouse, The Pogues, The Charlatans, The Swell Season, Manic Street Preachers, Echo & the Bunnymen, The Ting Tings, Black Kids, MGMT, The Kooks, Groove Armada, The National, Tricky, The Go! Team, Feeder, The Pigeon Detectives, The Enemy and One Night Only. Irish performers to play the festival included The Blizzards, Republic of Loose, Róisín Murphy, Bell X1, Mundy, Aslan, Paddy Casey, The Coronas, The Saw Doctors, The Kinetiks, Dirty Epics, Declan O'Rourke, Delorentos, Future Kings of Spain, Concerto For Constantine, God Is an Astronaut, The Script, Fight Like Apes, Codes and Oppenheimer.\n\nIn late 2008, Oxegen '08 won the \"Yourope Award for Best European Festival\" which was voted for by members of the public from across Europe. The festival was chosen ahead of rivals such as Glastonbury, Roskilde and T in the Park.\n\n\"For full line-up, see Oxegen 2008#Stages.\"\n\nThe main acts that played the festival were:\n\nOxegen '09 took place over three days between 10–12 July with Kings of Leon, Snow Patrol, Blur and The Killers headlining.\n\nThe following are condensed tables of the line-up. For more details, see: Oxegen 2009#2009 Line-up.\n\nOxegen 2010 was held between 9–11 July in Punchestown Racecourse, Naas, Ireland. Eminem, Muse, Arcade Fire, Jay-Z, The Black Eyed Peas, Kasabian, The Prodigy, Fatboy Slim, Florence and the Machine, Paolo Nutini, Faithless, Editors, Bell X1, Stereophonics, David Guetta, Dizzee Rascal, Doves, Julian Casablancas, The Stranglers, Earth, Wind & Fire, Echo & the Bunnymen, The Cribs, The Overview, Hot Chip, Calvin Harris, Republic of Loose, Newton Faulkner, The Temper Trap, Empire of the Sun, Goldfrapp, Gossip, La Roux, Rise Against, Ocean Colour Scene, The Coral, The Coronas, The Courteeners, Broken Social Scene, Vampire Weekend, Mumford and Sons, Ellie Goulding, Laura Marling, Two Door Cinema Club, Scouting for Girls, The Middle East, Armand Van Helden, Steve Angello, Simian Mobile Disco, Erol Alkan, Jamie T, Steve Aoki, A-Trak and Aeroplane are among the acts set to perform.\n\nOxegen 2010 was scheduled to be Arcade Fire's first Irish appearance since performing in the Phoenix Park and was their first 2010 European show to be confirmed. Bell X1 gave their only Irish performance of the summer at the event on 11 July. Biffy Clyro were added as well as Plan B and Kids in Glass Houses. Barry \"The Blender\" Henderson (of \"I Am Fighter\" fame) also made an appearance.\nAn anticipated appearance by Jedward did not materialise***. Control Thieves did not appear at that year's festival. Irish band The Overview were also rumoured to be a late addition to the line-up.\n\nMain Stage\nVodafone Stage\nHeineken Green Spheres Stage\n\nOxegen 2011 was held between 7–10 July at Punchestown Racecourse near Naas, County Kildare in Ireland. Foo Fighters, Arctic Monkeys, Coldplay, My Chemical Romance, Beyoncé, Slash, The Black Eyed Peas, The Strokes, Weezer, Beady Eye and Paolo Nutini were among the international artists to play. The Script, Whipping Boy, Imelda May, Two Door Cinema Club, Maverick Sabre, Fight Like Apes, Bressie, Royseven, Ryan Sheridan, The Rubberbandits and The Minutes were among the Irish artists to play. English pop artist Jessie J announced on 30 June that she would be unable to play the festival after falling off stage and breaking her foot which required surgery.\n\n– ** artist cancelled attendance after official announcement\n\nOn 21 December 2011, MCD posted a short notice on the Oxegen website confirming rumours that Oxegen 2012 had been cancelled. The statement read as follows: \"OXEGEN, like Glastonbury, is taking a year off in 2012 and will be back July 2013. Wishing everyone a very Happy Christmas & peaceful New Year. Keep Rockin' in 2012 and we will see you in 2013! Your Oxegen Team\".\n\nThe cancellation was expected to damage the local economy in Kildare. Media described the Dublin leg of The Stone Roses Reunion Tour, held in Phoenix Park on 5 July 2012, as a replacement for the year's lack of Oxegen. A Swedish House Mafia concert at the same venue two days later also drew comparisons with the festival, with “Oxegen-like behaviour” culminating in a number of random unprovoked attacks and concerns that \"The off-stage events which have dominated the news agenda since the Swedish House Mafia show [...] will forevermore be associated with stabbings and suspected drug deaths rather than the music.\"\n\nMCD chief Denis Desmond revealed, on the official Oxegen website in April 2013, the news that Oxegen will return to the Irish festival line-up this summer, after a one-year hiatus.\n\nThe festival took place in its usual home of Punchestown Racecourse in Kildare, and took place on August 2, 3 and 4.\nOn 22 April an announcement was made to confirm the first set of acts playing. Confirmed were Calvin Harris, Rizzle Kicks, Jack Beats, Duke Dumont, Example, Pitbull, Nero. On 24 April David Guetta was announced as one of the headline acts. The line-up was heavily criticized for having no guitar bands. The actual announcement posts were deleted on the same day as negative feedback was so heavy that festival promoters urged MCD to remove it to avoid embarrassment. It is thought that ticket sales were poor, and this may have been the last time MCD attend the festival. Revellers noted that there were 38 bands above this years headliners in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3660217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3660217", "title": "Pest house", "text": "Pest house\n\nA pest house, plague house, pesthouse or fever shed was a type of building used for persons afflicted with communicable diseases such as tuberculosis, cholera, smallpox or typhus. Often used for forcible quarantine, many towns and cities had one or more pesthouses accompanied by a cemetery or a waste pond nearby for disposal of the dead.\n\nFever sheds were built in several communities across Eastern Canada in 1847, to quarantine sick and dying Irish immigrants, who contracted typhus during the voyage to the New World during the Great Famine.\nIn Montreal, between 3,500 and 6,000 Irish immigrants died in fever sheds in a quarantine area known as Windmill Point. Three sheds were initially constructed, long by 40 to wide. As thousands more sick immigrants landed, more sheds had to be erected. The number of sheds would grow to 22, with troops cordoning off the area so the sick could not escape.\n\nIn Toronto, during the summer of 1847, 863 Irish immigrants died of typhus at fever sheds built by the Toronto Board of Health at the northwest corner of King and John Street. There were at least 12 sheds, 22 metres long by 7.5 metres wide. \n\nPartridge Island, New Brunswick, just outside the main harbour of Saint John, was chosen as the location for a pest house and quarantine station as far back as 1785. In 1847, with a large influx of Irish migrants, the typhus epidemic quickly filled the fever shed with sick and dying. By the 1847 typhus season, 2115 people had died in New Brunswick, with 1196 dying at Partridge Island and in Saint John.\n\n\nThere are five surviving pest houses, including:\n\nDeddington, Oxfordshire has a Pest House Field.\n\nRichmond, London has a Pesthouse common.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "573139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573139", "title": "Potemkin village", "text": "Potemkin village\n\nIn politics and economics, a Potemkin village (also Potyomkin village, translated from the , \"potyomkinskiye derevni\") is any construction (literal or figurative) built solely to deceive others into thinking that a situation is better than it really is. The term comes from stories of a fake portable village built solely to impress Empress Catherine II by her former lover Grigory Potemkin during her journey to Crimea in 1787. While modern historians claim accounts of this portable village are exaggerated, the original story was that Potemkin erected phony portable settlements along the banks of the Dnieper River in order to impress the Russian Empress; the structures would be disassembled after she passed, and re-assembled farther along her route to be viewed again as if another example.\n\nGrigory Potemkin was a minister and lover of the Russian Empress Catherine II. After the Russian annexation of Crimea from the Ottoman Empire and liquidation of the Cossack Zaporozhian Sich (see New Russia), Potemkin became governor of the region. Crimea had been devastated by the war, and the Muslim Tatar inhabitants of Crimea were viewed as a potential fifth column of the Ottoman Empire; Potemkin's major tasks were to pacify and rebuild by bringing in Russian settlers. In 1787, as a new war was about to break out between Russia and the Ottoman Empire, Catherine II with her court and several ambassadors made an unprecedented six-month trip to New Russia. One purpose of this trip was to impress Russia's allies prior to the war. Another purpose was to familiarize herself, supposedly directly, with her new possessions. To help accomplish this, Potemkin set up \"mobile villages\" on the banks of the Dnieper River. As soon as the barge carrying the Empress and ambassadors arrived, Potemkin's men, dressed as peasants, would populate the village. Once the barge left, the village was disassembled, then rebuilt downstream overnight.\n\nModern historians are divided on the degree of truth behind the Potemkin village story, and some writers argue that the story is an exaggeration. According to Simon Sebag-Montefiore, Potemkin's most comprehensive English-language biographer, the tale of elaborate, fake settlements with glowing fires designed to comfort the monarch and her entourage as they surveyed the barren territory at night, is largely fictional. Aleksandr Panchenko, an established specialist on 19th-century Russia, used original correspondence and memoirs to conclude that the Potemkin villages are a myth. He writes: \"Based on the above said we must conclude that the myth of 'Potemkin villages' is exactly a myth, and not an established fact.\" He writes that \"Potyomkin indeed decorated existing cities and villages, but made no secret that this was a decoration\".\n\nThe close relationship between Potemkin and the empress would make it difficult for him to deceive her. Thus, the deception would have been mainly directed towards the foreign ambassadors accompanying the imperial party.\n\nAlthough \"Potemkin village\" has come to mean, especially in a political context, any hollow or false construct, physical or figurative, meant to hide an undesirable or potentially damaging situation, it is possible that the phrase cannot be applied accurately to its own original historical inspiration. According to some historians, some of the buildings were real and others were constructed to show what the region would look like in the near future and at least Catherine and possibly also her foreign visitors knew which were which. According to these historians, the claims of deception were part of a defamation campaign against Potemkin. According to a legend, in 1787, when Catherine passed through Tula on her way back from the trip, the local governor Mikhail Krechetnikov indeed attempted a deception of that kind in order to hide the effects of a bad harvest.\n\n\n\"Potemkin village\" is a phrase that has been used by American judges, especially members of a multiple-judge panel who dissent from the majority's opinion on a particular matter, to refer to an inaccurate or tortured interpretation and/or application of a particular legal doctrine to the specific facts at issue. Use of the phrase is meant to imply that the reasons espoused by the panel's majority in support of its decision are not based on accurate or sound law, and their restrictive application is merely a masquerade for the court's desire to avoid a difficult decision.\n\nIn \"Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey\" (1992), chief justice of the US, William Rehnquist, wrote that \"Roe v. Wade\" \"stands as a sort of judicial Potemkin Village, which may be pointed out to passers-by as a monument to the importance of adhering to precedent\".\n\n\"The affidavit is the Potemkin Village of today’s litigation landscape,\" wrote William G. Young of the District of Massachusetts. \"Purported adjudication by affidavit is like walking down a street between two movie sets, all lawyer-painted façade and no interior architecture.\" \n\nSometimes, instead of the full phrase, just \"Potemkin\" is used, as an adjective. For example, the use of a row of trees to screen a clearcut area from highway drivers has been called a \"Potemkin forest\". For example, the glossary entry for \"clearcut\" in \"We Have The Right To Exist: A Translation of Aboriginal Indigenous Thought\" states that \"Much of the extensive clearcut in Northern Minnesota is insulated from scrutiny by the urbanized public by a Potemkin forest, or, as the D.N.R. terms it, an aesthetic strip--a thin illusion of forest about six trees deep, along most highways and fronting waters frequented by tourists.\" Or for example in the phrase \"Potemkin court\", which implies that the court's reason to exist is being called into question; differing from the phrase \"kangaroo court\" with which the court's standard of justice is being impugned.\n\nMany of the newly constructed base areas at ski resorts are referred to as Potemkin villages. These create the illusion of a quaint mountain town, but are actually carefully planned theme shopping centers, hotels and restaurants designed for maximum revenue. Similarly, in \"The Geography of Nowhere\", American writer James Howard Kunstler refers to contemporary suburban shopping centers as \"Potemkin village shopping plazas\".\n\nHardcore punk band Propagandhi released an album in 2005 called \"Potemkin City Limits\". The cover depicts kids playing in a city which is drawn on the ground, a façade city. Their 2009 album \"Supporting Caste\" has a song called \"Potemkin City Limits\", about the statue of Francis the pig, in Alberta, Canada.\n\nThe United States' President Donald Trump's business councils have been described as Potemkin Villages after several high-profile CEO participants resigned in August 2017. Trump's \"\" describes a stunt in which he lured Holiday Inn executives into investing in an Atlantic City casino by directing his construction manager to rent dozens of pieces of heavy equipment, in advance of a visit by the executives, to move dirt around on the proposed casino site, creating the illusion that construction was underway.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9944270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9944270", "title": "Proactive, Preemptive Operations Group", "text": "Proactive, Preemptive Operations Group\n\nP2OG stands for Proactive, Preemptive Operations Group, a U.S. intelligence agency that would employ \"black world\" (black operations) tactics.\n\nThe Defense Science Board (DSB) conducted a 2002 \"DSB Summer Study on Special Operations and Joint Forces in Support of Countering Terrorism.\" Excerpts from that study, dated August 16, 2002, recommend the creation of a super-Intelligence Support Activity, an organization it dubs the Proactive, Preemptive Operations Group (P2OG), to bring together CIA and military covert action, information warfare, intelligence and cover and deception. For example, the Pentagon and CIA would work together to increase human intelligence (HUMINT), forward/operational presence and to deploy new clandestine technical capabilities. Concerning the tactics P2OG would use,\nAmong other things, this body would launch secret operations aimed at \"stimulating reactions\" among terrorists and states possessing weapons of mass destruction—that is, for instance, prodding terrorist cells into action and exposing themselves to \"quick-response\" attacks by U.S. forces.\n\nSuch tactics would hold \"states/sub-state actors accountable\" and \"signal to harboring states that their sovereignty will be at risk\", the briefing paper declares.\n\n"}
{"id": "31565460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31565460", "title": "Protection from Abuse (Scotland) Act 2001", "text": "Protection from Abuse (Scotland) Act 2001\n\nThe Protection from Abuse (Scotland) Act 2001 (asp 14) is an Act of the Scottish Parliament. It was passed on 4 October 2001, receiving Royal Assent on 6 November.\n\nIn January 2000, following the devolution of the Scottish Parliament the previous year, Justice Minister Jim Wallace announced proposals to reform family law in Scotland, which would include new legislation on domestic abuse. Plans to increase protection for victims of domestic violence were temporarily delayed but the Protection from Abuse (Scotland) bill was published in June 2001 and was subsequently passed by the parliament on 4 October. The act received Royal Assent on 6 November.\n\nThe act allows interdicts to be brought against abusers by their victims and gives the police the power to arrest and charge an individual who breaks such an interdict. By giving the police this new power, the act amends the Matrimonial Homes (Family Protection) (Scotland) Act 1981. The 2001 act was intended to extend protection to victims of domestic abuse by unmarried and same-sex partners, as well as those no longer in a relationship with their abuser.\n\n"}
{"id": "22312855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22312855", "title": "Responsibility for the Russo-Georgian War", "text": "Responsibility for the Russo-Georgian War\n\nBoth sides of the 2008 war between Russia and Georgia blamed each other for starting the war.\n\nAlthough the Russian authorities have claimed that it was Georgia that started the war, many reports and researchers (among them independent Russian experts) concluded that the conflict started much earlier than the Georgian military operation began on 7 August at 23:35 and Russia was responsible. The relations between Georgia and Russia deteriorated since Vladimir Putin's rise to power in 1999-2000. South Ossetian separatists began attacking the Georgian villages in early August 2008, in order to force Georgia to respond militarily, thus giving a pretext for planned Russian invasion. Russia was preparing to go to war with Georgia for years before 2008 and intended to achieve geopolitical goals. Some researchers paid attention to the military exercise \"Kavkaz 2008\", which concluded in early August. During this exercise a written notice entitled \"Soldier, know your probable enemy\" (the enemy was clarified as Georgia) was circulated among the Russian participants. Russian journalists began arriving in Tskhinvali on 2 August to cover a war that had not yet begun. Some Russian regular troops entered South Ossetia before the Georgian military operation against Tskhinvali began on 7 August.\n\nA European Union investigation claimed that \"open hostilities\" began with a large-scale Georgian military operation against Tskhinvali on 7 August, but noted that \"a violent conflict had already been going on before in South Ossetia\" and Georgian offensive was a \"not proportionate\" response to pre-war South Ossetian attacks. The commission could not confirm the claimed attack on Russian peacekeepers. The commission further stated that Russian citizenship, conferred to the vast part of Abkhaz and Ossetians can not be considered legally binding, and as a result, the defence of Russian citizens living abroad should not have been used as a reason for starting military action by Russia. The report stated that further Russian advance into Georgia proper was unjustified. The report found that all parties involved in the conflict had violated international law. However, the report was heavily criticised for some of its conclusions.\n\nGeorgia first said that its military offensive responded to Ossetian shelling of Georgian villages, and it intended to \"restore constitutional order\" in South Ossetia. Georgia also said it aimed to counter a Russian invasion. During a United Nations Security Council meeting on 8 August, Georgia said that the first Russian troops entered South Ossetia at 05:30 am on 8 August. In a decree ordering the general mobilisation published on 9 August, Saakashvili noted that the Russian troops had advanced through the Roki tunnel on 8 August (after the Georgian attack). The Georgian government continued to maintain its position, saying that around 11:30 pm on 7 August intelligence information was received that 150 Russian army vehicles had entered Georgian territory through the Roki Tunnel. In an interview with Der Spiegel, Saakashvili said that he \"wanted to stop the Russian troops before they could reach Georgian villages.\" \"When our tanks moved toward Tskhinvali, the Russians bombed the city. They were the ones – not us – who reduced Tskhinvali to rubble.\" Georgia released intercepted telephone calls purporting to show that part of a Russian armoured regiment crossed into South Ossetia nearly a full day before Georgia's attack on the capital, Tskhinvali, late on August 7.\n\nRussia says it acted to defend Russian citizens in South Ossetia, and its own peacekeepers stationed there. The Russian peacekeepers in South Ossetia allegedly suffered casualties during the war. According to a senior Russian official, the first Russian combat unit was ordered to move through the Roki Tunnel at around dawn of 8 August (after the Georgian attack had begun). Defending Russia's decision to launch attack in uncontested Georgia, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has said that Russia had no choice but to target the military infrastructure sustaining the Georgian offensive. Initially, Russia went as far as accusing Georgia of committing genocide against Ossetians. It was claimed that Georgia codenamed its attack Operation \"Clear Field\". Russia also claimed that Georgia was planning to launch a two-day Operation \"Rock\" to retake Abkhazia. Russia codenamed its military action \"Operation to Force Georgia to Peace\".\n\nAccording to political scientist Svante Cornell, Moscow spent millions in a public-relations campaign to convince the world that Georgia, not Russia, began the war (despite abundant evidence, including some in Russian media, to the contrary).\n\nThree years after the August War, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev admitted NATO would have been expanded to admit ex-Soviet republics if Russia had not invaded Georgia in 2008 to defend a rebel region. \"If you...had faltered back in 2008, the geopolitical situation would be different now,\" Medvedev said in a speech to soldiers at a Vladikavkaz base. In August 2012, Vladimir Putin said that Russia had drawn up a plan to counter a Georgian attack long before the August 2008 conflict in the Caucasus. He said the plan was developed by the Russian General Staff in late 2006-early 2007 and it was negotiated with Putin, who was serving his second presidential term in that period. According to Putin, South Ossetian militia were trained under this plan. However, he refused to reveal if he insisted on the use of force when the war began.\n\nThe South Ossetian government in Tskhinvali called for Russian help to prevent \"genocide\" when the Georgian bombardment began, saying that Tskhinvali was under \"the most frightful fire\".\n\nWhen Abkhazia launched a military operation to gain the Kodori Gorge, President Sergei Bagapsh said: \"Maybe in order to achieve our goals we will have to violate certain parts of the Moscow Agreement of May 14, 1994 on a ceasefire but we were not the first to violate them.\"\n\n\"Life Goes On\" () is an article published in the 3 September 2008 issue of the Russian Ministry of Defence's official newspaper, \"Krasnaya Zvezda\". It was also posted on the newspaper's web site. The article was based on the interview of an officer who had taken part in the military operation in South Ossetia in August 2008. After the initial publication, it was picked up by blogs and internet news agencies, as it contradicted the official timeline of Russian incursion into South Ossetia. However, the article was later corrected. Soon, the article was pulled from the newspaper's web site, the disappearance having been commented upon by the mainstream media, including \"The New York Times\". The article details the war experience of Russian captain of the 135th regiment named Denis Sidristy. He said that his unit had been ordered to cease a training exercise and move to Tskhinvali on August 7, and he was there when the hostilities broke out. Sidristy said that he witnessed the Georgian attack on Tskhinvali around midnight.\n\nOn 4 August 2008, \"Life.ru\" reported that after the end of the \"Kavkaz 2008\" exercises, the paratroopers from Pskov remained to occupy the key positions on the Roki and Mamison passes on the border. Several battalions of 58th Army were moved close to the border. The South Ossetian sources told the newspaper that the deployment of troops began on the night of 2–3 August 2008. \"Life.ru\" reported, \"The deployment of the Russian military hardware near the Roki tunnel will allow as soon as possible to move troops to help the peacemaking forces.\"\n\nOn 6 August 2008, \"OsRadio\" reported that the volunteers were also arriving in Tskhinvali from Moscow.\n\nOn 8 August 2008, \"Nezavisimaya Gazeta\" published an article by journalist who had spent previous three days in Chechnya. She saw the base of the Battalion \"Vostok\" in Gudermes somewhere in that time frame. Chechen soldiers were preparing to go to South Ossetia. It was claimed that they were going to support the peacekeeping mission. At 3:30 AM they began departing with military official reminding them not to forget their passports and military IDs. However, the article does not mention that there was any war in South Ossetia.\n\nOn 12 August 2008, \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\" reported that in South Ossetia several soldiers were wounded and one was killed, who were from Tatarstan. Five days before he was killed in South Ossetia, Evgeny Parfenov warned his parents not to call him because it would be hard to reach him by phone. Lieutenant Aleksandr Popov was participating in the exercises on the height near Tskhinvali when his group was requested by the intelligence to reinforce them. According to Popov's mother, Popov told her he could see how the Georgians fired on Tskhinvali one week before the war. The mother of Eldar Lotfullin, 23-year-old contract soldier, said that she was able to call her son for the last time at around 10 PM MSK on 7 August 2008. Eldar Lotfullin told journalist that the Georgian tanks fired on his barracks on 8 August. On 13 August, \"Izvestia\" reported that the unit (where Popov served) was participating in the exercises in the mountains of South Ossetia.\n\nOn 12 August 2008, \"Moskovskij Komsomolets\" reported that one Russian regular army officer had said on 9 August that he was preparing for the exercises in South Ossetia, but understood only at the last minute that he was going to war.\n\nOn 12 August 2008, \"APN\" reported that the residents of North Ossetia–Alania were able to see the movement of a large number of troops towards the Roki Tunnel beginning 6 PM on 7 August, however they couldn't believe that Russia was involved in the war until the morning of 8 August.\n\nIn August 2008, \"Life.ru\" reported that \"22-year old contract soldier died on the first day of the bloody aggression in the Georgian-South Ossetian conflict zone, when a barrage of fire hit the peaceful town.\" The soldier's mother said that his son called her on 7 August, but she did not know that he was in South Ossetia until his death.\n\nOn 15 August 2008, \"Permskie Novosti\" reported that a Russian soldier had called home on 10 August and told his mother: \"We are there [in South Ossetia] since 7 August. All of our 58th army.\"\n\nOn 15 August 2008, \"\" reported that the sister of soldier Vitaly (who was fighting in South Ossetia) said that her brother called on 6 August and he was going to move [to unknown location]; later, on 7 August Vitaly told his sister that \"we are going to the mountains.\"\n\nOn 15 August 2008, \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\" reported that 19-year-old Onar Aliev from the 19th Motor Rifle Division died in South Ossetia on the night of 8 August during the shelling of Tskhinvali. His mother said her son called for the last time on 4 August and told her that he would participate in the \"true exercises\" somewhere near Abkhazia.\n\nOn 15 August 2008, \"Trud\" made a report about junior sergeant Aleksandr Sviridov who was killed in South Ossetia. He called his mother on 2 August and said: \"There won't be any holiday. There are intensified preparations; we frequently have parachute jumps. Apparently, we will be deployed to somewhere.\"\n\nOn 17 August 2008, \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\" reported that Aleksandr Plotnikov, the soldier from 693rd Regiment, said that he knew in early August that there would be war when two companies of his regiment were sent to the mountains near Tskhinvali.\n\nIn August 2008, \"Life.ru\" reported that 29-year Aleksey Tarasov, who was killed in action in South Ossetia, was buried in his village. His military friend was quoted as saying that their unit was allegedly deployed to South Ossetia for the exercises, but suddenly the war broke out.\n\nOn 26 August 2008, \"\" reported that one soldier's mother couldn't call her son for three days before 8 August because his phone was blocked (i.e. unreachable). At 3 AM on 8 August her son was sent to Tskhinvali, where he was wounded.\n\nOn 27 August 2008, \"Vecherny Saransk\" reported that Yunir Bikkinyaev, contract soldier of 135th Regiment, stopped to answer the phone calls on 7 August and his parents were worried. He later acknowledged he did so not to frighten his family.\n\nOn 28 August 2008, \"Gazeta Yuga\" published a report about Zalim Gegraev, a wounded soldier from 1st company of the peacemaking battalion, who fought in South Ossetia. Gegraev's mother said that her son had told her that he was going to Tskhinvali before the war started. She also said that he had been to South Ossetia previously and when he was there, his phone did not work. Then Zalim spoke to journalist: \"We had been there to participate in military exercises for a month in those areas before this. They ended, however we were not withdrawn. Then the order came to move to Tskhinvali. On 8 August we were near the town and waited for further instructions. I didn't even think that I could see such thing...\"\n\nOn 1 September 2008, journalist of \"Nezavisimaya Gazeta\" wrote: \"As early as 6 August I saw our army in full combat readiness near the Georgian border.\"\n\nOn 2 September 2008, it was reported that several soldiers' mothers had sent letter to Commissioner for Human Rights in Perm Krai. One mother wrote that on 3 August his son said his unit might be deployed to the border. Another mother said that his son told her on 9 August that his unit was sent to South Ossetia on the evening of 7 August.\n\nOn 11 September 2008, Yulia Latynina wrote that journalists who were sent in advance to cover the war reported on 6 August 2008 that they have seen \"58th Army in full combat readiness on the other [Georgian] side of the Roki tunnel\".\n\nOn 15 September 2008, \"Novaya Gazeta\" reported that the South Ossetian soldier had told journalist that after the end of \"Kavkaz 2008\" exercises 80 tanks remained in South Ossetia.\n\nOn 15 September 2008, \"RIA Novosti\" reported that Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said: \"There were excesses by all parties, but this was a war, and when you see on night, that you are being fired upon and you're on the move, while you're advancing to help Tskhinvali, then your response can not be precisely accurate and cannot avoid hurting anyone.\"\n\nOn 21 September 2008, Rossiya-1 TV reported that the wife of Lieutenant Sergey Shevelev, intelligence officer of the peacemaking battalion who died in South Ossetia, said that her husband called her every day and they talked casually. However, on 1 August he sent her text message saying \"Everything is normal ... Watch TV. That's all.\"\n\nIn October 2008, \"Duel\" reported that soldier Maksim Pasko, who died near Gori on 12 August, sent several SMSes. One SMS was sent on 3 August 2008 and said: \"Don't worry too much, the Georgian mercenaries are battering Tskhinvali. We were given orders to go there.\" Another SMS, sent on 5 August 2008, said: \"Yesterday, our artillerists were messing with Georgia. 22 were killed and 150 injured.\"\n\nIn January 2009, \"Krasnaya Zvezda\" published an interview with the priest, Father Mikhail, who said: \"I attended military exercise \"Kavkaz-2008\" in South Ossetia, where our paratroopers worked out the skills of combat in the mountains. Unfortunately, those skills became useful too soon...\"\n\nIn May 2009, \"Rossiyskaya Gazeta\" reported that hero of Russia Denis Vetchinov, who died in South Ossetia, left the base of the Motor Rifle Division in Vladikavkaz for Tskhinvali on the early morning of 7 August 2008.\n\nIn June 2009, Russian General Vyacheslav Borisov told Echo of Moscow in an interview: \"You know, we even regularly hold exercises in those areas. And our troops had full practice by holding exercises one week before right there in the same place. And we had only concluded and went. Therefore, marching toward Tskhinvali, we performed much better than those units under central command and the units of the district that were dusted off, did you know?\"\n\nIn July 2009, Russian journalist Ella Polyakova wrote that some Russian soldiers had told her that they arrived in South Ossetia on 4 August 2008, while their records claimed that they were stationed in North Ossetia.\n\nIn July 2009, Russian blogger published an interview with soldier Maksim Belyaev, who said: \"Our combined battalion of peacekeepers was stationed in North Ossetia. We should have replaced in August another battalion of the peacekeeping mission, located in Tskhinvali. We went to South Ossetia on the night of August 7. Around noon of 7 August, the column was near Tskhinvali on the bypass road.\"\n\nIn January 2010, Russian military portal \"Zaotechestvo.ru\" published the recollections of several Russian soldiers. Aleksandr Slanov, the head of the North Ossetian regional branch of \"Union of Paratroopers\", the NGO of veterans of the Airborne Forces and Special Forces, said: \"In the night of 4–5 August, I and five other paratroopers left for Tskhinvali. We arrived at 5 AM.\" Tanker Vladimir said: \"We arrived in Khetagurovo in the morning of 7 August. Our task was to destroy the Georgian fortified district, that was located on the height near Khetagurovo.\"\n\nIn 2012, Anatoly Khrulyov, the commander of the 58th Army, said in an interview that \"For me, the war began in my workplace.\" He said that the decision to reinforce the Russian peacekeeping force was made on 5 August 2008. Khrulyov said that Marat Kulakhmetov, commander of the Combined Peacekeeping Forces called him on the night of 7–8 August and said that General Mamuka Kurashvili had warned him that Georgia was going to launch a large-scale military operation.\n\nOn 18 August 2008, \"Le Figaro\" published the report by journalist who was told by a young Russian soldier at some checkpoint in Georgia that he came from Shali, Chechen Republic and that they left on 5 August 2008.\n\nGeorgian soldiers told EurasiaNet that they thought their initial mission in South Ossetia was to stop attacks on Georgian villages. One senior lieutenant from 4th Brigade said: \"Our goal was to put an end to fighting in the area and take control. Nobody in the army expected a war with Russia.\" One unnamed Georgian defense ministry source said: \"The main thing is that the scope of the threat was underestimated, while our own combat capabilities were overestimated.\" Georgian military sources said that an attack had earlier been expected from Abkhazia, but not from South Ossetia. The 4th Brigade senior lieutenant said that they \"were preparing for something in May when Georgia was denied NATO membership [a Membership Action Plan],\" but there \"were no preparations made\" for a military operation in South Ossetia in August. \"Many were on vacation and we were preparing to go Iraq in the fall.\"\n\nOn 7 August 2008, the 4th brigade loaded tanks and missile launchers on a train bound for the Georgian city of Gori. On the night of 7–8 August, the 4th Brigade launched a three-pronged offensive on South Ossetian positions in Tskhinvali and in two Ossetian villages - Znauri and Khetagurovo. One of the assaults intended to divert South Ossetian militia forces away from the main objective. After Tskhinvali was nearly encircled, Georgian troops then tried to establish control over a key road to the north, one mid-ranking commander said. The road was being defended by South Ossetian garrison near the village of Tbeti. As Georgian soldiers were engaged with the South Ossetian garrison, the first Russian tanks appeared, the commander said. \"We destroyed one tank after another, but they kept coming,\" the anonymous commander said.\n\nIn September 2008, Georgia released recordings of intercepted phone calls to prove that the Russian military moved into South Ossetia before the Georgian military operation began. \"The New York Times\" made its own translation from the original Ossetian language into Russian and then into English. Senior American officials reviewed the recordings and considered them as credible. The calls were made by Ossetian border guards on a Georgian cellular network. According to a call intercepted at 3:52 AM on 7 August, a supervisor at the South Ossetian border guard headquarters asked a guard at the tunnel with the surname Gassiev: \"Listen, has the armor arrived or what?\" The guard replied: \"The armor and people.\" Asked if they had gone through, he replied, \"Yes, 20 minutes ago; when I called you, they had already arrived.\"\n\nAt 3:41 AM, Gassiev told the supervisor in the first call that a Russian colonel had asked to inspect military vehicles that \"crowded\" the tunnel. Gassiev said: \"The commander, a colonel, approached and said, ‘The guys with you should check the vehicles.’ Is that O.K.?\" Asked about the identity of the colonel, Gassiev answered: \"I don’t know. Their superior, the one in charge there. The B.M.P.’s and other vehicles were sent here and they’ve crowded there. The guys are also standing around. And he said that we should inspect the vehicles. I don’t know. And he went out.\" Gassiev informed the supervisor at 3:52 AM that armored vehicles had left the tunnel. They were commanded by a colonel Kazachenko.\n\nRussia did not dispute veracity of the calls. According to Russian press reports after the war, Colonel Andrei Kazachenko who was mentioned in the recording, served in the 135th Motorized Rifle Regiment.\n\nRussian Defense Ministry spokesman General Uvarov claimed that on 7 August Russian peacekeeping contingent in South Ossetia was supplied with fuel and products. Georgia disputed this Russian explanation, arguing that rotations of the Russian peacekeeping battalion could be conducted only in daylight and after not less than a month of advance notification according to a mutual agreement in 2004.\n\nA former senior Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) official, Ryan Grist, who was in charge of unarmed monitors in South Ossetia at war's start, told the BBC in November 2008 that he had been warning of Georgia's military activity before its move into the South Ossetia region, saying there was a \"severe escalation\" and that this \"would give the Russian Federation any excuse it needed in terms of trying to support its own troops.\"\n\nAccording to Grist, it was Georgia that launched the first military strikes against Tskhinvali. \"It was clear to me that the [Georgian] attack was completely indiscriminate and disproportionate to any, if indeed there had been any, provocation,” he said. “The attack was clearly, in my mind, an indiscriminate attack on the town, as a town.” Grist's views were echoed by Stephen Young, who was another senior OSCE official in Georgia at the time. According to him, there had been no extensive shelling of the Georgian villages on the evening or night of August 7. Young added, that if there had been shelling of Georgian villages that evening, the OSCE monitors at the scene would have heard it. According to him, the monitors only heard occasional small arms fire.\n\nGeorgia, and some Western diplomats in Tbilisi later questioned Grist's objectivity. The OSCE curbed the attempts by \"The New York Times\" to interview the monitors, saying they would not be publicly engaged in disagreement. Terhi Hakala, head of the OSCE mission to Georgia, called the monitors' claims \"a bit irrelevant.\" OSCE Deputy Spokeswoman Virginie Coulloudon told the journalists that the organization's monitors make \"patrol reports\" from the ground \"on a daily basis.\" Coulloudon also said that \"the OSCE is not in a capacity to say who started the war and what happened before the night of [August] 7-8.\" Journalists documented dozens of eyewitnesses' accounts that confirmed the reports that Pro-Moscow separatist forces had been shelling the Georgian villages before August 7. The eyewitness accounts are also consistent with a report issued on 5 August 2008, by a tripartite monitoring group, which included Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) observers and representatives of Russian peacekeepers in the region. The report, signed by the commander of Russian peacekeepers, General Marat Kulakhmetov, said there was evidence of attacks against ethnic Georgian villages in South Ossetia. The report also stated that South Ossetian separatists were using heavy weapons against the Georgian villages, which was prohibited by a 1992 cease-fire agreement.\n\n\"The Wall Street Journal\" (WSJ) wrote that in an interview Grist acknowledged he crossed through Russian lines without authorization on his own initiative to determine the facts, which ultimately cost him his OSCE job. He was forced to resign from the OSCE immediately after the war. WSJ adds Grist remains \"scathing\" about Georgian actions before and during the war, but says that some of his comments have been overinterpreted and quotes Grist saying \"I have never said there was no provocation by the South Ossetians.\" \"What I have said is that the response from the Georgian authorities was absolutely disproportionate,\" said Ryan Grist.\n\nIn an interview with \"The Wall Street Journal\", Ryan Grist said that on 12 August he went to visit a friend in Tskhinvali, Lira Tskhovrebova, who was well connected with the separatist authorities. Friends took him to see two top South Ossetian officials. On the road to Tbilisi Grist was stopped by South Ossetian militia. He shouted the names of the officials he had just been meeting \"so they wouldn't shoot\" him. In December 2008, an investigation by the Associated Press revealed that Lira Tskhovrebova was not an independent activist as she claimed. She was allegedly connected to South Ossetian KGB and Russian intelligence agency, the FSB. Matthew Bryza, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State of the United States, also expressed his doubts about Tskhovrebova.\n\nA Georgian parliamentary commission, which studied the war, released a report on 18 December 2008.\n\nThe report said in its beginning that Russia’s aggression against Georgia did not start in August 2008 and recalled the events in Abkhazia and South Ossetia in early 90s. The report then gave a detailed timeline of events preceding the war. It also said that the Georgian authorities' failure \"to de-legitimize the presence of Russian peacekeepers can be considered the major shortcoming of the Georgian authorities in a pre-August period.\" The Russian peacekeepers were full-pledge participants of the aggression against Georgia, according to the commission. \"On the one hand, Russia used ‘attack’ on ‘peacekeepers’ as one of the pretexts for launching the aggression and on the other hand, [attacks] were carried out on the Georgian citizens from their [peacekeepers’] headquarters [which was based on Tskhinvali].\"\n\nThe report said that despite having information on tensions in the South Ossetian conflict zone, the Georgian authorities failed \"to properly analyze\" the scales of the threat. \"The Georgian authorities perceived large-scale Russian military exercises at the Georgian borders in late July and continuing attacks in the conflict zone as a traditional wave of provocations.\" The report also criticized the National Security Council (NSC), \"It is obvious that the Security Council has failed to plan the actions in a timely manner, which would have been adequate to the anticipated situation and consequently, from the morning of August 7 it had to act in force majeure regime.\" The commission said that the government members’ actions during the war sometimes lacked coordination. The report said that the government did not stick to the formal procedures laid out in the special decree envisaging setting up of a governmental commission during the emergency situations. The commission also criticized the Georgian Foreign Ministry, saying that \"there is no special action plan and written instructions for ambassadors on how to act in the emergency situations; the activities of ambassadors are not controlled properly either.\"\n\nThe report also says that \"serious shortcomings\" were revealed in the defense system. The commission said that \"problems persisted in the communication system.\" It also said that the war revealed \"inadequacy\" of the reserve troops system. \"The Defense Ministry has failed to carry out strategic planning properly,\" the report continued.\n\nThe commission called on the General Prosecutor’s Office to investigate all the cases of violation of international humanitarian law regardless of who has committed them on either side.\n\nAn independent, international fact-finding mission headed by Swiss diplomat Heidi Tagliavini was established by the EU to determine the causes of the war. The commission was given a budget of €1.6 million and relied on the expertise of military officials, political scientists, historians and international law experts. The report was published on 30 September 2009. The report said it could not claim \"veracity or completeness in an absolute sense\", since it incorporated what had been available to the Mission at the time of writing.\n\nThe report claimed that open hostilities started \"... with a large-scale Georgian military operation against the town of Tskhinvali and the surrounding areas, launched in the night of 7 to 8 August 2008\", but \"... any explanation of the origins of the conflict cannot focus solely on the artillery attack on Tskhinvali in the night of 7/8 August\" since \"... it was only the culminating point of a long period of increasing tensions, provocations and incidents\", and there was \"... no way to assign overall responsibility for the conflict to one side alone.\" The beginning of the armed conflict between Georgia and South Ossetia was dated by the commission to 7 August 2008 at 23.35; however, the commission acknowledged that \"a violent conflict had already been going on before in South Ossetia,\" and \"President Saakashvili’s order on 7 August 2008 at 23.35 and the ensuing military attack on Tskhinvali [...] has to be seen as but one element in an on-going chain of events for military violence had also been reported before the outbreak of the open hostilities on 7 August 2008.\" The open hostilities between Georgia and Russia are considered to have begun on 8 August 2008. The report acknowledged that \"volunteers or mercenaries\" entered Georgia from Russia before the Georgian military operation and there was the presence of \"some\" non-peacekeeping Russian troops in South Ossetia before the public decision for an intervention was made by the Russian leadership.\n\nThe commission said that a government \"is generally not prevented\" from using armed force in internal conflicts, e.g. against insurgents starting a civil war or against violent secessionists. However, the report said that Georgia had a non-use of force commitment under the legally binding international documents, such as the 1992 Sochi Agreement and 1996 Memorandum on Measures to Provide Security and Strengthen Mutual Trust between the Sides in the Georgian-South Ossetian Conflict.\n\nThe commission said that the South Ossetian attacks on Georgian villages (Zemo Nikozi, Kvemo Nikozi, Avnevi, Nuli, Ergneti, Eredvi and Zemo Prisi) were equivalent to an \"attack by the armed forces of a State on the territory of another State\" resembling the situations described in Art. 3(a) of UN Resolution 3314. As the South Ossetian attacks were \"primarily\" directed against Georgian peacekeepers and against Georgian police, this was an attack by the South Ossetian armed forces on the land forces of Georgia. The commission also said \"To the extent that South Ossetian militia initiated the shooting on Georgian villages, police and peacekeepers before the outbreak of the armed conflict,\" South Ossetia violated the prohibition of the use of force. It also noted that Georgian attack on 7 August was a response, albeit not proportionate, to South Ossetian attacks in the following paragraphs:\nAs far as legality of use of force by Russia was concerned, the report took a \"differentiated\" approach, dividing \"the Russian reaction to the Georgian attack\" into two phases – the one, which was the immediate reaction \"in order to defend Russian peacekeepers\" in Tskhinvali and the second one, \"the invasion of Georgia by Russian armed forces reaching far beyond the administrative boundary of South Ossetia\", which was \"beyond the reasonable limits of defence\".\n\nThe commission stated that an attack by Georgian forces on Russian peacekeepers deployed in Georgia – \"if not in self-defence against a Russian attack\", would not be justified. However, the commission concluded that an attack on Russian peacekeepers was not a sufficient condition to be used for self-defence by Russia and \"the fact of the Georgian attack on the Russian peacekeepers’ basis could not be definitely confirmed by the mission.\" The commission said that Russian peacekeepers, if they \"had been directly attacked\", had the right to immediate, necessary and proportionate response. However, \"doubts remain whether the Russian peacekeepers were attacked in the first place,\" and the mission could not establish whether, at the time of the alleged attacks on Russian peacekeepers’ bases, the peacekeepers had lost their protection due to their participation in the hostilities. The commission concluded that the expulsion of the Georgian forces from South Ossetia, and the defence of South Ossetia as a whole was not a legitimate objective, and according to international law, the Russian actions as a whole, were not neither \"necessary nor proportionate\" to protect Russian peacekeepers in South Ossetia. The commission concluded that Russia did not have the right to justify its actions as \"a mere reinforcement and fulfilment\" of its peacekeeping mission.\n\nThe commission concluded that the South Ossetian separatists could not validly invite Russia to support them militarily. It also concluded that \"Russian military activities against the Georgian military forces were not justified as collective self-defence under international law.\" The commission also concluded that Russian military actions also could not be justified as a humanitarian intervention.\n\nThe report further stated that Russian citizenship, conferred to the vast part of Abkhaz and Ossetians can not be considered legally binding under international law. The purportedly naturalised Abkhazs and South Ossetians are not Russian nationals according to international law. The commission said that the constitutional obligation to protect Russian nationals could not serve as a justification for intervention under international law. Russian domestic law could not be invoked as a justification for a breach of an international law. The commission concluded that Russian intervention in Georgia was not justified as a rescue operation for Russian citizens in Georgia.\n\nWith respect to the war's second theater, the report found the joint Abkhaz-Russian attack on the Kodori Gorge was unjustified under international law and was an illegal use of force. Russian support of Abkhazia was not justified as collective self-defence in favour of Abkhazia, because third-party involvement in an internal military conflict in support of the seceding party is not allowed. The commission concluded: \"The use of force by Abkhazia was not justified under international law and was thus illegal. The same applies to the Russian support for Abkhaz use of force.\" General Russian involvement in the conflict in Georgia was a violation of the fundamental international legal prohibition of the use of force.\n\nThe report found that Russian and South Ossetian allegations of genocide committed by the Georgian side were \"neither founded in law nor substantiated by factual evidence.\" The report found that during the conflict \"all sides to the conflict - Georgian forces, Russian forces and South Ossetian forces - committed violations of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights Law.\" The report also found facts of ethnic cleansing of Georgians, saying that \"several elements suggest the conclusion that ethnic cleansing was indeed practised against ethnic Georgians in South Ossetia both during and after the August 2008 conflict.\" The commission said that in many cases Russian forces did not act to prevent or stop South Ossetian forces from committing acts of deliberate violence against civilians during the conflict and after the cease-fire.\n\nThe report also concluded that South Ossetia and Abkhazia did not have a right to secede from Georgia (which they did in the early 1990s), because according to the \"uti possidetis\" principle, only constituent republics such as Georgia, but not territorial sub-units such as South Ossetia or Abkhazia had the right to independence during the breakup of the Soviet Union. Their recognition was \"consequently\" contrary to international law.\n\nIn February 2009, a high-ranking Georgian official suspected that one German expert, that submitted a research paper to Tagliavini, worked for organizations financed by Russian energy company Gazprom.\n\nIn September 2009, before the report was published, former Estonian Prime Minister Mart Laar said in an interview: \"[They seem to be] looking at things from a very, we can say, interesting point of view, forgetting history, forgetting context, and forgetting one simple point: that during the war, no Georgian soldier, no plane, no other military equipment left the legal, internationally recognized territory of Georgia. It was Georgian territory, and no Georgian soldier [left] the borders of Georgia.\"\n\nBefore the report was published, a spokesman for Russia’s Foreign Ministry, , said the Russian side had been \"absolutely fair and honest\" with Tagliavini's commission and felt optimistic about the report's objectivity. He said Russia was hoping that the commission would allocate blame to the countries that helped arm Georgia, in particular Ukraine. He added that Russia would consider it \"unfair\" if the investigation divided blame for the war equally.\n\nEU countries declared in a statement the report was not about apportioning blame, but they stated it could \"contribute toward a better understanding of the origins and the course of last year's conflict\".\n\nGeorgian state minister for reintegration told the BBC that, although most of the facts in the report were accurate, he disagreed with some parts of it. \"I disagree with the notion that Georgia used excessive force in the attack on Tskhinvali because, as I mentioned, there are ample evidences of Russian deployment and these were not just peacekeepers, so one can hardly judge what is proportionate,\" said Temur Iakobashvili. \"One can hardly judge what is proportionate or disproportionate in this case.\"\n\nSvante E. Cornell argued that although Tagliavini’s report did claim that Georgia started the war, that should not be confused with the question of responsibility. He also criticised the argument that Georgia was legally bound by agreements not to use force, because the mission failed to discuss their validity if broken by either the South Ossetians or by Russia. Cornell also criticised the report for not taking account of the considerable evidence accumulated by scholars such as Andrey Illarionov.\n\nIn 2010, Yulia Latynina, Russian journalist, criticised the Tagliavini report, saying: \"A war, it turns out, is begun by he [sic] who responds to the actions of an aggressor [...]. So when Ossetian 'volunteers' burn Georgian villages - that is not a war. But if they [the Georgians] respond to this, then here you, accursed ones, have started a war. Following the logic of the Tagliavini commission, the Georgians ought not to have responded. Even if Russian tanks had reached Tbilisi, and the Georgians had responded, they, the swine, would have started a war. The logic is irreproachable: if the Georgians had not responded, there would have been no war.\" Latynina argued that according to the Tagliavini mission \"Georgia had no right to send a single shell into the city [of Tskhinvali]. But the opposite side had a right to burn down Nuli, and that was not an infringement of human rights.\" Latynina concluded that the commission showed a \"cowardice\" before \"an international hooligan\" Vladimir Putin.\n\nJohn B. Dunlop concluded that the EU report would have come to different conclusions (who and when began the war) if it had taken into consideration Andrey Illarionov's findings and documented timeline.\n\nOn 12 August 2008, \"Life.ru\" reported that several Russian peacekeepers were buried in Vladikavkaz. Among them was 32-year-old lieutenant colonel Oleg Golovanov, native of Tskhinvali, who fought against the Georgian army for several hours. \"MK\" published an article where one senior officer of the mortar battery is documented as saying that Oleg Golovanov was the commander of an artillery reconnaissance platoon and was sitting on the roof of the peacekeepers' base and corrected fire. Golovanov was wounded. He died on Friday (8 August 2008). According to \"MK\", Oleg Golovanov was buried in Tskhinvali on 11 August 2008. REGNUM News Agency published the list of killed Russian peacekeepers on 12 August 2008, where lieutenant colonel Oleg Golovanov is included. In the August 2008 issue of \"Spetsnaz Rossii\" Oleg Golovanov was described as lieutenant colonel who commanded one group of Russian peacekeepers resisting the Georgian advance. This group fought against the Georgian army for several hours. In November 2008 \"OsRadio\" reported that on 7 August Lieutenant Oleg Galavanov was following orders to detect the targets and adjust artillery fire. Galavanov was adjusting fire aimed at advancing Georgian army during the night until the Georgians located his position and he was wounded. He was awarded the title of Hero of the Russian Federation. In February 2009, Galavanov's mother said in an interview that her 32-year old son worked in the intelligence service in the South Ossetian Ministry of Defense and had the rank of lieutenant. In March 2009, \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\" reported that on the morning of 8 August 2008, at around 6:00 AM tank shell hit the observer post and wounded lieutenant Oleg Galavanov. Galavanov had returned from Russia to Tskhinvali in 2007 and worked in the Ministry of Defense and Emergency Situations of South Ossetia. He served as artillery spotter. In August 2009, South Ossetian news agency RES reported that 32-year old Oleg Galavanov had been promoted to the rank of lieutenant in 2007.\n\nIn October 2008, , the commander of the Russian peacekeeping battalion said in an interview with \"Izvestia\" that on the morning of 8 August the Russians opened fire in response only after the Georgians had opened fire on the observer post in the southern part of Tskhinvali.\n\nIn 2009, the Russian side told the Tagliavini commission that the Russian peacekeepers suffered the first casualties at 6:35 AM on 8 August, when the Georgian tank was firing on the observer post on the roof of the peacekeepers' base. As a result one soldier of the battalion died, another one was wounded and the part of the building was destroyed. By 12:00 PM two peacekeepers had died and five were wounded. Georgia said that it only targeted Russian peacekeepers in self-defence, after coming under fire from them.\n\nAfter the disclosure of alleged US diplomatic cables by WikiLeaks, the dispatches sent during the initial stage of the war from Tbilisi were published. Former US Ambassador to Georgia John F. Tefft alleged that the Georgians did not intend to start the conflict, but rather were dragged into the war. The diplomat’s cables were initially published by Russian Reporter magazine, a Moscow-based weekly.\n\n“From evidence available to us it appears the South Ossetians started today’s fighting,” reads an alleged August 8 dispatch from Tefft. “The Georgians are now reacting by calling up more forces and assessing their next move. It is unclear to the Georgians, and to us, what the Russian angle is and whether they are supporting South Ossetians, or actively trying to help control the situation.” He reportedly wrote on August 8 that “As late as 22:30 Georgian Ministry of Defense and Ministry of Foreign Affairs officials were still hopeful that the unilateral cease-fire announced by President Saakashvili will hold. Only when the South Ossetians opened up with artillery on Georgian villages, did the offensive to take Tskhinvali begin.” “All evidence available to the country team supports [Georgian President Mikheil] Saakashvili’s statement that this fight was not Georgia’s original intention,” reads the cable. “Key Georgian officials, who would have had responsibility for an attack on South Ossetia have been on leave, and the Georgians only began mobilizing August 7 once the attack was well underway.”\n\nThe cables also describe the chronology of events. On 7 August, when the fighting escalated, Deputy Foreign Minister Grigol Vashadze told the US Ambassador that \"heavy Russian equipment was being moved south from Java - a military base north of the conflict zone , which Georgians have not seen -- even in tense times -- in the past.\" When General Kulakhmetov, the Head of the Russian peacekeepers in Tskhinvali, met with Temur Iakobashvili, Kulakhmetov said that he \"does not control anything\" and that the South Ossetians were \"shooting at the Georgians behind my back.\"\n\nEurasiaNet.org contacted the US Embassy in Kiev, where Tefft then served, in an attempt to confirm the veracity of the cables. But the embassy declined to comment. Several Russian commentators have interpreted the same cables differently, saying that this proved that the Georgians started the war.\n\n On 11 August 2008, Georgian president Mikheil Saakashvili wrote: \"The Kremlin designed this war. Earlier this year, Russia tried to provoke Georgia by effectively annexing another of our separatist territories, Abkhazia. When we responded with restraint, Moscow brought the fight to South Ossetia. Ostensibly, this war is about an unresolved separatist conflict. Yet in reality, it is a war about the independence and the future of Georgia. And above all, it is a war over the kind of Europe our children will live in. Let us be frank: This conflict is about the future of freedom in Europe.\"\n\n On 7 August, state-owned Rossiya TV showed Sergei Bagapsh, the president of Abkhazia, speaking at a meeting of the Abkhaz National Security Council. Bagapsh said: \"I have spoken to the president of South Ossetia. It has more or less stabilized now. A battalion from the North Caucasus District has entered the area.\" By the evening of 7 August, Bagapsh had ordered the Abkhaz armed forces to raise combat readiness.\n\n In August 2008, Pavel Felgenhauer, a Moscow-based analyst of military affairs, wrote in \"Novaya Gazeta\" that the Russian plan was for the “Ossetians to intentionally provoke the Georgians” so that “any response, harsh or soft, would be used as an occasion for the attack”. He noted that Russia's invasion of Georgia had been planned in advance, with the final political decision to complete the preparations and start the war in August apparently having been made back in April. The war was planned to start no later than the second half of August, because in the following months the weather would deteriorate. The goal of the war was to expel all Georgians from Abkhazia and South Ossetia, to free Tbilisi from Saakashvili, and to force NATO and Americans to abandon the Caucasus region. If the Georgians had not responded to South Ossetian attacks, then Abkhaz separatists would have started the operation to reclaim the Kodori Gorge. But Saakashvili succeeded in destroying the Ossetian militia and Moscow had no other option rather than to confront Georgia itself openly. Felgenhauer also argued in another English-language article that a heavy mortar bombardment of Georgian villages in South Ossetia on 7 August provoked Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili to order a major assault. The war was not an improvised Russian reaction to a sudden Georgian military offensive in South Ossetia, and \"The invasion was inevitable, no matter what the Georgians did.\" Earlier, on 7 August, Felgenhauer claimed that while Kokoity and other Ossetian officials seemed to be provoking a major Russian intervention into South Ossetia, not everyone in Moscow was \"ready to plunge headlong into war.\" Felgenhauer had predicted in June 2008 that Vladimir Putin would start a war against Georgia in Abkhazia and South Ossetia supposedly in late August 2008.\n\n On 8 August 2008, Vladimir Socor, the political analyst of Jamestown Foundation wrote that the brazen attacks during the night of August 7 to 8 in South Ossetia left the Georgian Government with no choice but to respond. He stated that continuing the restraint policy would have resulted in irreparable human, territorial, and political losses for Georgia. Georgia’s defensive response in South Ossetia since August 8 was \"legally within the country’s rights under international law and militarily commensurate with the attacks.\" NATO’s failure to grant a MAP to Georgia at the April 2008 summit emboldened Russia to escalate military operations against Georgia.\n\nFawn and Nalbandov argued: \"The Russian military measures were part of a Russian strategy and possibly a genuine belief that Moscow was acting in accordance with, and upholding, international law and norms.\" Fawn and Nalbandov also argued that different events, and different interlinkages, created the story. Every event was used by the sides rhetorically as the \"start\", which justified retaliation. \"An essential characteristic of the conflict in South Ossetia was that, notwithstanding the presence of the Joint Control Commission’s forces as peacekeepers in the conflict zone, each military clash led to mutual blame by the belligerent parties: each side accused the other of opening the first salvo and characterized its actions only as a response.\" According to Fawn and Nalbandov, \"one starting point\" for deterioration of the situation in South Ossetia was 7 July when four Georgian officers were seized by South Ossetian authorities. The researchers concluded that \"The August war did not come out of nowhere,\" and \"The precise ignition of the war rests on specific timing in the late hours of 7 August and early hours of 8 August, and when and why Russian armor traveled through the Roki tunnel from the Russian Federation into Georgia.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43057816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43057816", "title": "Romanian National Opera, Timișoara", "text": "Romanian National Opera, Timișoara\n\nThe Romanian National Opera, Timișoara () is a public opera and ballet institution in Timișoara, Romania. It is one of the national opera companies of Romania. The Opera shares the same building with the Mihai Eminescu National Theatre in Timișoara.\n\nThe first performance at the Timișoara Opera was on 27 April 1875, the inaugural concert being Aida by G. Verdi.\n\nOn April 20, 1880 the building is devastated by the first fire. The theatre goes bankrupt and it is bought by the authorities, in charge of its recovery. Since investments were insufficient individual funds were needed. The government offered \"eternal\" property over twenty lodges and the right of inheritance. Later, in agreement with the owners, they are redeemed. The reconstruction, completed in 1882, keeps the original Renaissance style of the façade.\n\nAfter the second fire, which takes place in 1920, only the lateral wings remain intact. The reconstruction of the building begins on July 15, 1923, by architect Duiliu Marcu.\n\nOn December 20, 1989, during the Romanian Revolution, a crowd of 40,000 gathered in the open space in front of the opera house. Some managed to enter the building through the rear, and a succession of figures representing factories and ethnic groups delivered speeches from the balcony. From that point, the revolutionaries controlled the opera and surrounding square, although representatives of the Ceaușescu regime briefly continued to hold the county council building.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40150292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40150292", "title": "Saptahik", "text": "Saptahik\n\nSaptahik is weekly tabloid published by Kantipur Publications in Nepal. It is one of the popular newspapers among youth in Nepal.\n"}
{"id": "45687815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45687815", "title": "Silk events", "text": "Silk events\n\nSilk events is a full-service event management agency with branches in Uganda and Rwanda.\n\nThe company was founded in 2005. It has since organised a number of events in Uganda including corporate events, music concerts, and branding events. It has organised events for musicians like Beenie Man, Demarco (musician), Sisqó, Sean Paul Maurice Kirya, Grace Nakimera, and the Miss Uganda event.\n\n"}
{"id": "7085851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7085851", "title": "Snakes in Suits", "text": "Snakes in Suits\n\nSnakes in Suits: When Psychopaths Go to Work is a 2006 non-fiction book by industrial psychologist Paul Babiak and criminal psychologist Robert D. Hare. \n\nThe text covers the nature of psychopaths in the context of employment and purports to explain: how psychopaths manipulate their way into work and get promoted, the effects of their presence on colleagues and corporations, and the superficial similarities (and fundamental differences) between leadership skills and psychopathic traits. The work is interlaced with fictional narratives illustrating how the factual content applies to real-life situations. Characteristics of manipulators are described as shifting to meet stereotypical gender expectations: a female psychopath might make full use of the passive, warm, nurturing, and dependent sex-role stereotype in order to get what she wants out of others and a male psychopath might use a macho image, intimidation, and aggression to achieve satisfaction of his desires. The authors posit that around 1% of senior positions in business are psychopaths.\n\nThe authors describe a \"five phase model\" of how a typical workplace psychopath climbs to and maintains power: entry, assessment, manipulation, confrontation, and ascension. In the entry stage, the psychopath will use highly developed social skills and charm to obtain employment into an organisation. At this stage it will be difficult to spot anything which is indicative of psychopathic behaviour, and as a new employee you might perceive the psychopath to be helpful and even benevolent. Once on to the assessment stage, the psychopath will weigh you up according to your usefulness, and you could be recognised as either a pawn (who has some informal influence and will be easily manipulated) or a patron (who has formal power and will be used by the psychopath to protect against attacks).\n\nManipulation involves the psychopath creating a scenario of “psychopathic fiction” where positive information about themselves and negative disinformation about others will be created, where your role as a part of a network of pawns or patrons will be utilised and you will be groomed into accepting the psychopath's agenda. Once on to the confrontation stage, the psychopath will use techniques of character assassination to maintain their agenda, and you will be either discarded as a pawn or used as a patron. Finally, in the ascension stage, the role of the subject as a patron in the psychopath’s quest for power will be discarded, and the psychopath will take for himself/herself a position of power and prestige from anyone who once supported them.\n\nA review of \"Snakes in Suits\" by \"The Australian\" called it \"a lay guide to corporate psychopaths.\" and concluded \"However wooden in parts, Snakes in Suits is a valuable addition to any business library.\"\n\n\"Snakes in Suits\" has also been reviewed by \"Publishers Weekly\", \"BookList\", \"Psychology Today\", \"California Bookwatch\", \"Security Management\", \"Canadian Business\", and \"Finweek\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42988897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42988897", "title": "Societaetstheater", "text": "Societaetstheater\n\nThe Societaetstheater is the oldest popular theatre in Dresden, Germany. Founded in 1776 as an amateur theatre by a society of friends from both the nobility and the middle class, it was initially respected and influential but declined in the early 19th century after the fashion shifted to elaborate historical and verse dramas and the national theatre movement grew in importance, and was eventually dissolved in 1832. The Baroque building on Hauptstraße in the Innere Neustadt was abandoned for many years in the second half of the 20th century, but beginning in 1979, a movement grew to restore it. The theatre reopened in 1999 and is now operated by the city.\n\nAfter the end of the Seven Years' War in 1763, the theatrical landscape in Dresden shifted, with French actors being replaced by German, \"partly to save money, partly out of patriotism\". \"Reformed\" theatre groups such as that of Abel Seyler gained in respect against the court theatre, which was felt to be too focussed on spectacle, and the educated middle class began to emulate the amateur theatre of the aristocracy. \n\nOn 19 May 1776, a group of fifteen friends founded a society for the purpose of creating a private theatre in their leisure time, and the Societaetstheater was ceremoniously opened the same day, initially in a temporary home near the current location of the main station with a capacity of approximately 50 spectators. \n\nIn 1777, with the assistance of the publisher Conrad Georg Walter, the theatre moved to a larger building in Borngasse (near the current location of the German Hygiene Museum), but after Walter's death the following year, it moved again on 7 December 1779 to its current home, a garden building in the courtyard behind the residence of the government secretary Johann Christoph Hoffmann at Hauptstraße 19. This had been built in 1740 in Baroque style, intended for masquerades, but never used. It accommodated an audience of 250 and a 24-piece orchestra. The stage was small even then; it was illuminated with wax or tallow candles in special holders designed to reflect the light on the desired spot. The interior was by Johann Ludwig Giesel, who also designed the interior of the original Gewandhaus in Leipzig. The design for the curtain in 1779 was by Johann Eleazar Zeissig, known as Schenau, a director of the Dresden Academy of Fine Arts; it depicted, amongst genii and garlands of roses, scenes from Greek mythology, such as Thalia, the muse of comedy, showing a youth the way to the temple of virtue while a bacchante tried to draw him towards the temple of lust.\n\nThe society of friends of the theatre grew to fifty members, and by the end of the 18th century to more than 75. They belonged to both the nobility and the middle class and agreed to a 25-article constitution which included equality of members. Decisions and assignment of positions were voted on; five board members, a secretary and a cashier were elected, whose duties included determining the list of plays and assignment of roles.\n\nThe constitution divided the society's membership into active and passive members. The active members were overwhelmingly attached to the court of Saxony. For example, the privy advisor of the privy council, Hans Ernst von Teubern, translated scripts into German. The poet August Gottlieb Meißner used his influence within the society to secure performances of works by his friend Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Other members wrote plays themselves or, like the painter Ernst Ferdinand Oehme in the 19th century, performed on stage. Altogether between 20 and 30 of the members were active as performers, leading to frequent doubling of roles. The passive members included aristocratic patrons who funded needs such as costumes or the upkeep of the theatre. Such benefactors included Prince Charles of Saxony, Count Alois Friedrich von Brühl and Count Hans Moritz von Brühl.\n\nProductions took place mainly in the winter season, between September and early May. Like almost all other theatres, the Societaetstheater closed for Lent. However, performances also took place on Fridays and Sundays, which out of respect for religion were avoided by public theatres in Dresden until the early 19th century. Performances of the Societaetstheater were usually restricted to members' family, friends and acquaintances; a 1792 announcement speaks of each member receiving three tickets. Outsiders were admitted only in exceptional cases and after presenting a calling card.\n\nNonetheless, the theatre soon acquired a reputation extending outside Saxony. Productions were reported on in theatrical publications alongside those of the established court theatres and tours by well known companies. The persistence of the theatre was remarked on, since similar associations were at the time usually short-lived. It became a model which was emulated in various cities. In Dresden itself, where there were also two public theatres, a summer theatre, and touring productions, a second theatrical association, the Freundschaftliche Theater, was founded in 1787; since some of the members belonged to both, this was combined with the Societaetstheater in 1789. By 1802, there were a total of twelve other theatres in Dresden.\n\nThe Societaetstheater was originally entirely amateur. There is no record of any appearances by actors from public theatres until 1800. In the early 19th century this began to change, as upcoming actors increasingly discovered the theatre as a place to hone their talent. Actresses including Demoiselle Hartmann, the Weinhold sisters and Luise Wagner, sister of Richard Wagner, used the theatre to make the transition to professional careers. The years around 1800 also saw a generational shift from the founders to their successors, who chose the stage as their profession while retaining close ties to the Societaetstheater, where they had begun theur association with the theatre.\n\nThe bourgeois drawing-room dramas which dominated the repertoires of theatres of all sizes at the beginning of the 19th century made few demands in casting, time, settings or props. However, the general movement towards grand historical dramas, such as those by Goethe and Schiller, with their demanding costumes, complex verse which was difficult to memorise and to recite, and large casts, once more opened a gulf between professional and amateur drama. Dilettantism had a negative connotation; Goethe and Schiller themselves collaborated in the summer of 1799 on a compilation with that as its theme, \"\". The Societaetstheater produced simple dramas and comedies, some slapstick; no production of Goethe or Schiller there is recorded. The theatre's reputation waned, and as the national theatre movement gained in importance, it was excluded from the mainstream. Many of the upper middle class regarded amateur theatre as at best a \"harmless pleasure\" with no particular moral or aesthetic merit. Financial, social and political pressures led the Societaetstheater to close on 19 May 1832 and the society was dissolved.\n\nIn 1837 a building was erected beside the theatre, covering almost half the façade. A second storey and more windows were added to the building itself, and beginning in the second half of the 19th century, it was used as a residence. In the early 20th century, small handwork businesses moved into what had been the foyer; traces of metalworking remain. The premises were also reportedly used by a photographic studio and by the post office.\n\nThe building was not destroyed in the bombing of Dresden on 13 February 1945, but fell into increasing disrepair after the war. In the 1950s and 60s, urgently needed repairs were not made, and from the 1970s on, the building was abandoned. Despite the renovation of the Hauptstraße beginning in 1978, the intention was to gut and demolish the building. The architect Jürgen Mehlhorn, who had become interested in the building while still a student and was now using it to store material for the reconstruction of other buildings on the street, in 1979 designed a keystone for the main entrance at Hauptstraße 19 depicting two theatrical masks and with the inscription \"Societaetstheater 1715 1779 1979\". The association \"Interessengemeinschaft Societaetstheater\" was then founded; in 1992 this became \"Societaetstheater e.V.\" The association worked to preserve the building and raised money for urgent repairs such as roof work and provisional safety measures. In 1985, the building became a registered landmark of the German Democratic Republic. More extensive repairs were made in 1989. After German reunification in 1990, Dresdner Bank sponsored the building's restoration. The Dresden city council decided in October 1994 that the theatre would be operated by the city once restored, and work began in 1996.\n\nThe building was restored based on its original state, with the addition of an annexe containing a cellar theatre, a restaurant and five guest rooms. The adjoining Baroque garden, which had belonged to the sculptor Johann Benjamin Thomae amongst others, was also restored, and a restored pavilion by Thomae placed in the centre. The theatre had its ceremonial reopening on 19 February 1999.\n\nThe Societaetstheater today is a modern chamber theatre, accommodating spoken word, dance, music and puppet performances. Resident productions evolve by a workshop process harking back to the theatre's origins. Independent performers from the region as well as guest performers from Germany and other countries have appeared there. In addition to the main theatre and the cellar stage, performances may take place in the foyer and in the garden. It has served as one of the venues for the Jazztage Dresden festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "36883592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36883592", "title": "St-Ambroise Montreal Fringe Festival", "text": "St-Ambroise Montreal Fringe Festival\n\nThe St-Ambroise Montreal Fringe Festival is a festival that hosts fringe theatre, repertory, dance, music, and drag-queen performances in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The festival is held annually and lasts for 20 days in June. The festival was previously run by Jeremy Hechtman and Patrick Goddard, but Hechtman stepped down in 2010 after being in the position for 15 years.The festival has been run since 2011 by choreographer Amy Blackmore. McAuslan Brewing sponsors the St-Ambroise Montreal Fringe Festival and several other festivals in Montreal, including Pop Montreal, the Montreal World Film Festival, and the Fantasia Festival. The 2007 festival featured a mass fake marriage for theatre-goers at the beginning of the festival and then a corresponding mass fake divorce at the end symbolised by the eating of timbits.\n"}
{"id": "42551202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42551202", "title": "Standard Theatre (Philadelphia)", "text": "Standard Theatre (Philadelphia)\n\nThe Standard Theatre showcased Philadelphia's most talented black performers and jazz musicians in the early twentieth century. During its peak years (19151930), the Standard was one of Philadelphia's most famous and successful black theaters. Its exceptional success can be attributed to its owner, John T. Gibson, a black man who envisioned affordable entertainment for his own race.\n\nThe Standard Theatre (or Standard Theater) originally opened in 1888 on the 1100 block of South Street. The Standard was primarily a venue for local and traveling vaudeville programs. The Standard was located near Philadelphia's neighborhoods with the highest black population: for instance, 23% of Philadelphia's black citizens lived in the 7th ward of South Philadelphia alone. The theater would occasionally showcase black productions, such as in November 1897, when the theater presented Bob Cole and William Johnson's \"A Trip to Coontown\", a musical created and performed by black men. In spite of this, the Standard maintained segregated admissions, alienating many of the black residents in the neighborhood.\n\nBefore 1914, the Standard Theatre had seen occasional yet sporadic black ownership. For example, a group of black investors from New York City led by Gibson Young leased the theater in 1913, with the promise of \"altogether coloured management.\" In spite of its initial great success, business declined. By that October the Standard was again leased to white ownership, which returned to practicing segregation. This was a great emotional loss to the black community, who saw the Standard Theater finally becoming a site of entertainment for their own race.\n\nJohn T. Gibson leased the Standard Theatre in January 1914. In an interview almost two years after his purchase, Gibson said the following: \"When I bought the New Standard theater, I felt that there was a field in this city for good clean Negro vaudeville at popular prices.\" Gibson's premiere show opened with J. Lubrie Hill's \"Darktown Follies\", a musical comedy featuring Southern rural characters. \"The Freeman\" described the event as a \"decided success\", and one that \"Philadelphia can be proud of... the citizens will rally around Manager Gibson.\" The original ticket prices ranged from 25 cents to $1.00.\nIn May, Gibson officially bought the Standard, becoming its sale owner and manager. At this point, the theater was valued at $70,000, making it one of the most valuable pieces of property owned by a single black man in the country.\n\nIn its first two years, the Standard Theatre presented a variety of performances at low cost. The musical repertoire included southern folk songs, antebellum plantation songs, vaudeville numbers, musicals, and blues. The theater also showed fantastic performances, including magicians, acrobats, and animal performances. For example, a performance in February 1915 featured the Monkey Cabaret Orchestra, consisting of eight monkeys in the orchestra who accompanied more monkeys performing on stage with a dog. Gibson took pride in his performers. When asked by a reporter what the theater relied on most, he replied \"Good acts, well acted... it has been and will continue to be my method to regard the actor as a medium and not as a marionette.\"\nIn November 1915, Gibson finished renovations on the Standard Theatre. The renovations included newly painted interior, gilded ceilings, and increased seating to 2,000. While renovating his theater, Gibson employed black painters, artists, and construction workers in his efforts to spread wealth among the black citizens in the area. After this point, Gibson claimed to have a standing offer for $180,000 for the theater, which he regularly declined: \"Commercialism has nothing whatever to go with my project,\" he said. \"My idea is to give my people the best of it all the time.\"\n\nBy 1918, The Standard Theatre's success made John T. Gibson the richest black man in the state of Pennsylvania. The Standard Theater was one of only 59 theaters owned by a single person in Philadelphia. \"The Washington Bee\" credited his success to his optimism loyalty to his race: \"Despite his great wealth, Mr. Gibson is a race man. His affections are remarkably developed. His heart is large. It is necessary at times to retrain his willingness. He is an apostle of optimism. His wide, his home, his theater, his city, his state, his country are the finest. There is no limit to their possibilities.\"\n\nDuring the twenties, the Standard Theatre peaked in its success. A major factor in this success was increased ticket sales. Massive audience turnouts resulted in part from new waves of black Philadelphians. In the beginning of the twentieth century, millions of black Americans fled to northern cities, escaping southern segregation and Jim Crow laws. This movement became known as the Great Migration. In the teens, Philadelphia's black population increased by fifty percent, reading a total of 134,220. This growth continued through the twenties, reaching a black population of 219,559 by 1930. Newly arrived performers and audience members alike sought out theaters that hired and catered to black Philadelphians. In the early twenties, the Standard embodied black entertainment in Philadelphia. Gibson responded to growing audiences and monetary success by purchasing the nearby Dunbar Theater in 1921.\n\nIn the 1920s, jazz flourished in Philadelphia. Jazz music infiltrated the mainstream music culture, receiving praise from more conventional musicians. For instance, the conductor of the Philadelphia Orchestra Leopold Stokowski compared jazz music to \"the injection of new... blood into a dying aristocracy.\" As jazz music became more recognized as socially respectable music, the Standard's audiences became more integrated as white Philadelphians came to more shows. While the shows had always been integrated, the increased number of white audience members contributed to Gibson's high earnings. Perhaps reacting to the influx of white audience members, black critics began to change their tastes in performances. Sandy Burns, a comedian who specialized in blackface performance, received rave reviews from Freeman papers in the teens. But by 1926, his performance received scathing reviews, and he was criticized as \"a past master at portraying the old razor-slashing Negro.\" While vaudeville comedy still lit the stage, Gibson changed his focus to musical performers, specifically big bands. It is during this period that The Standard Theater showcased some of the top names in jazz at the time. In 1927, Duke Ellington and his Washingtonians performed for two weeks at the Standard Theatre. In December 1929, Louis Armstrong performed in the Standard, fronting for the Luis Russell Band. Following Ellington and Armstrong's lead, numerous big band leaders added the Standard as a stopping point on their tours.\n\nIn 1931, Gibson sold the Standard Theatre due to his losses from the Great Depression. As big band music began its decline, the Standard Theater was turned into a movie theater, losing its performance space for live musicians and performers. The theater officially closed in 1954 and was demolished in 1957. In 1992, the Pennsylvania Historical & Museum Commission placed a historical marker to commemorate the theater and its owner. It is placed at the theater's original location, on the 11th block of South Street.\n\nA young Ethel Waters found inspiration in the performances she saw at the Standard. Early in her career, she often imitated acts she had seen when performing in other cities. In 1917, she returned to Philadelphia and performed at the Standard: \"My return to Philadelphia turned into something of a triumph when we were booked for two weeks at the Standard Theatre, where I'd watched shows from the peanut gallery. It was still the city's leading Negro showhouse, and the engagement meant I was recognized in my home town as an established professional performer.\" Although Waters moved to New York in 1919, she would still perform at the Standard whenever she passed through Philadelphia, most notably performing for a week in June 1928.\n\nThe Whitman Sisters consisted of four sisters (Essie, Mabel, Alberta, and Baby Alice) who performed vaudeville routines all along the eastern coast. Their acts included tap dancing, musical numbers, comedy sketches, and crossdressing. The Whitman Sisters regularly performed at the Standard throughout the late teens as the star act of the show.\n\nBessie Smith began to regularly perform at the Standard in 1923. Although she spent time touring around the country, she settled in Philadelphia, bringing her family with her. According to jazz trombonist Clyde Bernhardt, \"Bessie Smith's sister, Viola, had a restaurant called Viola's Place across from the Standard Theater on South Street. Bessie put up the money for it...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "52561457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52561457", "title": "Trump–Tsai call", "text": "Trump–Tsai call\n\nThe Trump–Tsai call was a telephone conversation between the U.S President-elect Donald Trump and the President of the Republic of China (commonly known as Taiwan) Tsai Ing-wen which took place on December 2, 2016. This event marked the first time since 1979 that a U.S. President or President-elect had directly spoken with a ROC President. In the call, Tsai congratulated Trump for his victory in the presidential election. The two leaders spoke for around 10 minutes, focusing on politics, economy, and security in Asia-Pacific. Following the call, Trump publicized this on Twitter and Facebook and said thank you to \"the President of Taiwan\". After Trump's transition team confirmed the event, the Presidential Office of Taiwan released a statement about the content of the call.\n\nSeveral prominent Republicans praised the call between the two leaders, saying that the United States needs no more pressure from the government of the People's Republic of China (commonly called \"China\"), which does not recognize the ROC government and claims Taiwan is part of its territory. Some commentators from U.S. media outlets said that the call humiliated Beijing as it seemed a violation of a diplomatic practice. Other media and comments criticized the One-China policy, saying that Trump's move was moral right and strategically correct for American interests. Wang Yi, the Foreign Minister of the People's Republic of China subsequently responded that this event is only a \"small trick\" played by Taiwan and will not change the One-China Policy. A spokesperson for the Presidential Office in Taipei expressed that there is no conflict between the Cross-Strait relations and the Taiwan–U.S. relations. The Obama administration stated that the U.S. would uphold the One-China Policy. Trump later responded by saying that the U.S. did not have to follow that policy.\n\nIn 1972, U.S. President Richard Nixon visited Mainland China, and met with Communist Party of China (CPC) Chairman Mao Zedong and Premier Zhou Enlai, then the two parties agreed on the \"One-China\" policy (i.e. the positions of then governments of the two sides across the Taiwan Strait \"at that time\" both claim there is only \"one China\" in the world). In 1978 President Jimmy Carter's administration formally cut ties with the Republic of China (ROC) on Taiwan, establishing relations with the PRC. Since the severing of diplomatic relations, the Presidents of the United States and the Republic of China have never formally met or made calls in line with the policy. But the 1979 Act of Congress Taiwan Relations Act and the 1982 Six Assurances between the governments between U.S. and Taiwan have defined the substantial relations between the peoples of the United States and Taiwan.\n\nAfter Tsai Ing-wen's victory in Taiwan's presidential election in 2016, analysts predicted that Tsai's Democratic Progressive Party would install a largely pro-American government, in contrast to that of former President Ma Ying-jeou's Kuomintang, which called for close co-operation with Beijing.\n\nAfter the call on December 2, Donald Trump wrote on Twitter: \"The President of Taiwan CALLED ME today to wish me congratulations on winning the Presidency. Thank you!\" and then hours later \"Interesting how the U.S. sells Taiwan billions of dollars of military equipment but I should not accept a congratulatory call.\"\n\nOn December 4, Trump raised doubt on Twitter: \"Did China ask us if it was OK to devalue their currency (making it hard for our companies to compete), heavily tax our products going into their country (the U.S. doesn't tax them) or to build a massive military complex in the middle of the South China Sea? I don't think so!\"\n\nVice President-elect Mike Pence said \"the conversation with the President of Taiwan was a courtesy call.\" \"It's striking to me that President Obama would reach out to a murdering dictator in Cuba and be hailed as a hero. And President-elect Donald Trump takes a courtesy call from the democratically-elected President of Taiwan and it becomes something of a thing in the media.\" \"You're going to see ... President Donald Trump ... engage the world on America's terms.\"\n\nFormer House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a close adviser to Trump, praised the President-elect's conversation with Taiwanese President of 23.5 million people as he would be to communicate with the democratically elected leader of any nation. He compares Trump's Taiwan call to President Obama's visit to Cuba to hang out with the Castro dictatorship and suggests the dialogue resets a more favorable relationship for the U.S. with China. \"...State Department mythology that we have to somehow let the Chinese dictate to us is nonsense... They are not going to be able to intimidate us.\" He urged Trump to reform the DOS to more closely align with American values.\n\nHouse Speaker Paul Ryan said, \"I spoke with the President of Taiwan when she was transferring planes in Miami a couple months ago. It is prudent for the President-elect to take congratulatory calls — absolutely. I think for him to not take a congratulatory call would in and of itself be considered a snub. So I think everything is fine.\"\n\nTrump's former primary competitor Senator Ted Cruz defends the call by comparing Obama's foreign policy \"I would much rather have Donald Trump talking to President Tsai than to Cuba's Raul Castro or Iran's Hasan Rouhani. This is an improvement\" on Twitter.\n\nSenator Tom Cotton commends President-elect Trump for his conversation with President Tsai Ing-wen, which reaffirms U.S. commitment \"America's policy toward Taiwan is governed by the Taiwan Relations Act, under which we maintain close ties with Taiwan and support its democratic system... I have met with President Tsai twice and I'm confident she expressed to the president-elect the same desire for closer relations with the United States.\"\n\nHouse Foreign Affairs Committee Chair Ed Royce said \"I presume that phone conversation was a courtesy call from the President of Taiwan to the President of the United States... I was not too surprised... I go to Taipei and Beijing. Every year we lead a large bipartisan delegation in order to discuss these issues.\" Democratic ranking member of the Committee Eliot Engel emphasizes the U.S. is the leader of the free world and should defend democratic values. The U.S. should support Taiwan and he thinks the people of Taiwan have every right to expect the U.S. to protect them. He supports Taiwanese people to have the right to decide their fate and to choose their own future. He wouldn't sacrifice the U.S. friend Taiwan and he believes U.S. need to interact with both Taiwan and China at the same time. Chair of the Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific Matt Salmon applauded Trump's historic conversation and said \"America has always been a champion of democratic values and individual freedoms, and I applaud the President-elect for making a strong statement in support of those values around the world.\"\n\nCongressman Dana Rohrabacher applauded Trump's phone call with Taiwan's president was \"terrific\" because of the diplomatic warning it sent to China. He said that, \"He showed the dictators in Beijing that he's not a pushover. China has had an enormously aggressive foreign policy and by him actually going to Taiwan, he's showing the people in Beijing that they cannot have this aggressive foreign policy and expect to be treated just the same by an American president.\"\n\nFormer Governor of Utah as well as U.S. Ambassador to Singapore and China Jon Huntsman says \"The call came in from President Tsai Ing-wen. He made the choice to take it, which I think was absolutely right... I'm sure he's got a broader strategy.\"\n\nFormer US Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton also supports Trump's interaction with President of Taiwan with democratic government, free press, and free-market economic system. He said, \"Nobody in Beijing gets to dictate who we talk to. It's ridiculous to think that the phone call upsets decades of anything.\" \"We should shake the relationship up. For the past several years China has made aggressive... belligerent claims in the South China Sea.\"\n\nFormer deputy Undersecretary of the Navy and Professor Seth Cropsey said claiming that democratic Taiwan is part of the totalitarian People's Republic of China is just like the story of The Emperor's New Clothes.\n\nFormer managing editor of \"Foreign Affairs\", contributing editor of \"Time\" magazine, and now CNN host Fareed Zakaria said the President-elect Trump's call with President Tsai Ing-wen of Taiwan was not a bad idea while some people are getting a bit too critical. \"The truth of the matter is we need leverage with China... on many issues we need to be able to push them harder... The key here is that it should be part of a thought-through strategy.\"\n"}
{"id": "35991476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35991476", "title": "UFC 151", "text": "UFC 151\n\nUFC 151: Jones vs. Henderson was a planned mixed martial arts event that was to be held by the Ultimate Fighting Championship on September 1, 2012, at the Mandalay Bay Events Center in Las Vegas, Nevada. It was to be headlined by a UFC Light Heavyweight Championship bout, between champion Jon Jones and former dual-division PRIDE FC and Strikeforce champion Dan Henderson. However, the event was cancelled on August 23, when the UFC announced Henderson was unable to fight due to injury, and Jones refused to take a replacement fight against longtime middleweight contender, Chael Sonnen.\n\nThe fight between Thiago Tavares and Dennis Hallman was originally scheduled to take place at UFC 150, but was moved to this event on July 12, 2012.\n\nJosh Koscheck was expected to face Jake Ellenberger, but pulled out of the bout, citing a back injury and was replaced by returning veteran Jay Hieron.\n\nOn August 23, Dana White announced that Henderson had sustained a partial rupture of his MCL and had withdrawn from the fight. White then announced via press conference that UFC 151 would be the first event in the organization's history to be cancelled, after Jones declined to fight Chael Sonnen, who agreed to take the fight on eight days' notice. Initially, White announced that Jones would defend his title against Lyoto Machida at UFC 152 and that UFC 151 simply would not take place. Later, it emerged that Machida declined to fight Jones on such short notice. The UFC announced that former UFC Light Heavyweight Champion Vitor Belfort would challenge Jon Jones at UFC 152.\n\nInitial reports indicated that UFC 152, scheduled to take place three weeks later, would be renamed UFC 151. However, Zuffa announced that UFC 152 would keep its name and UFC 151 would officially be deemed a \"lost show\". UFC middleweight champion at the time, Anderson Silva reportedly offered to save the event by fighting any light heavyweight other than Jon Jones, and UFC middleweight contender at the time Chris Weidman also inquired about fighting Jones, but both offers arrived too late, after cancellation processes began.\n\nDana White blamed the cancellation on Jones and his coach Greg Jackson, who advised him that accepting the fight with Sonnen on short notice would be the \"biggest mistake of [his] entire career\". However, some MMA analysts see the UFC at fault for promoting thin cards. With fights occurring nearly every weekend, the pool of fighters available as substitutes when injuries occur is shallow. CBS Sports columnist Gregg Doyel argued Dana White's mishandling of UFC 151 proved that UFC competitors need a union, stating: \"...fights fall through all the time – the flimsy card fell apart. This was the UFC's fault. This was UFC president Dana White's fault.\" Dan Henderson was also criticized when it later emerged that he had been injured three weeks prior to the announcement and kept quiet about it as he still hoped to compete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3097666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3097666", "title": "Unity Christian Music Festival", "text": "Unity Christian Music Festival\n\nUnity Christian Music Festival (\"Unity\") is a three day Christian music festival held annually during the month of August at Heritage Landing in Muskegon, Michigan.\n\nUnity was started in 2001 to bring Christians together for public praise, worship and fellowship; to provide a wholesome, family valued entertainment alternative and to raise funds and recruit volunteers for area Christian ministries. The Festival is presented by Alive on the Lakeshore, an all volunteer group of local Christians who want to present wholesome, Christ centered, family valued entertainment options in West Michigan. Each year, over 700 volunteers are needed to make the festival a success. The festival is a member of the Christian Festival Association.\n\nAverage per day attendance ranges from 9,000 on Thursday to over 20,000 on Saturday.\nArtists who have played at Unity include Relient K, Hawk Nelson, Anointed, Steven Curtis Chapman, Geoff Moore, Petra, Chris Rice, Phil Keaggy, Mark Schultz, Jars of Clay, tobyMac, The Newsboys, 4th Point, Chris Tomlin and Michael W. Smith.\n\nIn May, Unity sponsor Alive on the Lakeshore presents Rock the Coast at Michigan's Adventure.\n\n"}
{"id": "14034025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14034025", "title": "Washington International Renewable Energy Conference", "text": "Washington International Renewable Energy Conference\n\nWashington International Renewable Energy Conference is a meeting of senior-level representatives from the Executive and Legislative branches of the United States government at the national and subnational level, international organizations, the finance and business community, and civil society who are working to advance the integration of renewable energy in their countries.\n\nIt is hosted in cooperation with the American Council On Renewable Energy (ACORE).\n\nOfficial Side Events are a forum for non-governmental, governmental, and/or inter-governmental partners to showcase their projects/programs in front of a high level public and private sector audience. \n\nOne of the major accomplishments of the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) in Johannesburg, South Africa, was the recognition that renewable energy is a critical component of sustainable development, energy security, climate change, and air quality. \n\nWorldwide enthusiasm for renewable energy has increased dramatically since WSSD, both multilaterally (e.g., 2004 Bonn Renewable Energy Conference, 2005 Beijing International Renewable Energy Conference, G-8, etc.), bilaterally, and nationally. Nations now more fully recognize the imperative to promote widespread adoption of renewable energy, such as biofuels, wind, solar, geothermal, and hydro energies, into their countries' energy mix to promote sustained economic growth, social development, and environmental stewardship. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14674509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14674509", "title": "World Science Forum", "text": "World Science Forum\n\nThe World Science Forum (WSF) is an international conference series on global science policy. Since 2003, it is organised biannually in Budapest, Hungary. \n\nThe WSF traces back its origin to the first World Conference on Science, organised by UNESCO and ICSU and held in Budapest in 1999. The first WSF was organised in 2003, followed by the second in 2005 and the third in 2007. The fourth WSF was held from 5 through 7 November 2009 in Budapest, Hungary, focusing on \"Knowledge and future\". The fifth World Science Forum was held between 17 and 19 November 2011 in Budapest, it focused on \"The changing landscape of science\".\n\nThe World Science Forum aims at being the \"Davos of Science\" and achieving the same global strategic impact on science and science policy as the World Economic Forum does it in the field of global economic policy.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century, science and knowledge became essential parts of Mankind's everyday lives. Scientific knowledge is not only the result of Humanity's inherent curiosity and scientific endeavor, it is a powerful means of understanding human nature, society, and the Nature in which humans live. Advance in science is a major contributor to society's socio-economic development, the global welfare of humankind, man's relation to Nature, and the quality of life. \n\nIn past centuries the predominant role of science was the production of new knowledge to satisfy the curiosity of the human mind. In recent years, the role of science has undergone changes, as scientific inquiry has increasingly become the motor of development in society. By the end of the 20th century, science had taken on a number of new roles. These novel roles may – and should – contribute in a decisive manner to the daily life of humankind in the 21st century. \n\nIn spite of its spectacular development and new opportunities, the science of 21st century faces wavering confidence, unseen dilemmas and new questions. These problems can be solved only if the main procedures and users of knowledge are able to reach common ground for the new roles of knowledge and science in 21st century's global society.\n\nThese issues were discussed at the World Conference on Science from 26 June to 1 July 1999 in Budapest, Hungary. The conference was organised by UNESCO and the International Council for Science (ICSU), with the participation of over 2000 delegates from 186 countries. \n\nAs a follow-up to the World Conference on Science, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (HAS), in partnership with UNESCO and ICSU, initiated a unique forum series for a much needed genuine debate and hopefully lasting interaction between the scientific community and society. Three members of HAS played a key role in establishing the World Science Forum series: István Láng, the organiser of the 1999 World Conference of Science; Balázs Gulyás, the founding director of the WSF series; and E. Sylvester Vizi, the then president of HAS. At present the President of World Science Forum is Professor József Pálinkás, President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.\n\nMission of WSF\n\n– To provide major stakeholders with a global forum for dialogue on science and its role and responsibility in the 21st Century.\n\n– To better understand and promote the need for science and scientific advice in political and economic decision-making.\n\n– To exchange views and ideas on how to communicate science and its basic values to the society at large and to the various stakeholder groups.\n\nThe main organising institution of the WSF is the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, in close partnership with UNESCO and ICSU. The preparatory activities of the Forum are led by a Governing Board, helped by an international Steering Committee.\n\nPatrons of the WSF are the President of Hungary, the Director-General of UNESCO, the President of ICSU, and the President of the European Commission. At present, they are Pál Schmitt, Irina Bokova, Yuan Tseh Lee and José Manuel Barroso.\n\nThe Steering Committee of the WSF consists of internationally renowned scientists and science politicians. Its chair is József Pálinkás, president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Members of the Steering Committee include Sir Brian Heap, Chairman EASAC; Gretchen Kalonji, Assistant Director-General for Natural Sciences, United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO); Yuan-Tseh Lee, President, International Council for Science (ICSU), Nobel Laureate; Alan I. Leshner, chief executive officer, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS); Jacob Palis, President, Brazilian Academy of Sciences, President, The Academy of Sciences for the Developing World (TWAS); Werner Arber, Nobel Laureate; Ahmed Zewail, Director, Physical Biology Center for Ultrafast Science and Technology, Nobel Laureate; Ichiro Kanazawa, President, Science Council of Japan; Sir George Radda, Chairman, Biomedical Research Council; Lidia Brito, Director, Division for Science Policy and Sustainable Development, Natural Sciences Sector, UNESCO; Deliang Chen, Executive Director, International Council for Science (ICSU); Vaughan Turekian, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).\n\nThe chairman of the Governing Board of WSF is József Pálinkás, President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and President of World Science Forum. The Executive Director of the WSF is Balazs Gulyas, the executive secretaries are Gergely Böhm and Ádám Kégler.\n\n"}
