{"id": "48938687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48938687", "title": "Absement", "text": "Absement\n\nIn kinematics, absement (or absition) is a measure of sustained displacement of an object from its initial position, i.e. a measure of how far away and for how long. Absement changes as an object remains displaced and stays constant as the object resides at the initial position. It is the first time-integral of the displacement (the area under a displacement vs. time graph), so the displacement is the rate of change (first time-derivative) of the absement. The dimension of absement is length multiplied by time. Its SI unit is meter second (m·s), which corresponds to an object having been displaced by 1 meter for 1 second. This is not to be confused with a meter per second (m/s), a unit of velocity, the time-derivative of position.\n\nFor example, opening the gate of a gate valve (of rectangular cross section) by 1 mm for 10 seconds yields the same absement of 10 mm·s as opening it by 5 mm for 2 seconds. The amount of water having flowed through it is linearly proportional to the absement of the gate, so it is also the same in both cases.\n\nThe word \"absement\" is a portmanteau of the words \"absence\" and \"displacement\". Similarly, \"absition\" is a portmanteau of the words \"absence\" and \"position\".\n\nWhenever the rate of change ′ of a quantity is proportional to the displacement of an object, the quantity is a linear function of the object's absement. For example, when the fuel flow rate is proportional to the position of the throttle lever, then the total amount of fuel consumed is proportional to the lever's absement.\n\nThe first published paper on the topic of absement introduced and motivated it as a way to study \nflow-based musical instruments, such as the hydraulophone, to model empirical observations of some hydraulophones in which obstruction of a water jet for a longer period of time resulted in a buildup in sound level, as water accumulates in a sounding mechanism (reservoir), up to a certain maximum filling point beyond which the sound level reached a maximum, or fell off (along with a slow decay when a water jet was unblocked). Absement has also been used to model artificial muscles, as well as for real muscle interaction in a physical fitness context. Absement has also been used to model human posture.\n\nAs the displacement can be seen as a mechanical analogue of electric charge, the absement can be seen as a mechanical analogue of the time-integrated charge, a quantity useful for modelling some types of memory elements.\n\nIn addition to modeling fluid flow and for lagrangian modeling of electric circuits (Jeltsema 2012), absement is used in physical fitness and kinesiology to model muscle bandwidth, and as a new form of physical fitness training. In this context, it gives rise to a new quantity called \"actergy\", which is to energy as energy is to power. Actergy has the same units as action (joule-seconds) but is the time-integral of total energy (time-integral of the Hamiltonian rather than time-integral of the Lagrangian).\n\nFluid flow in a throttle:\nPID controllers are controllers that work on a signal that is proportional to a physical quantity (e.g. displacement, proportional to position) and its integral(s) and derivative(s), thusly defining PID in the context of Integrals and Derivatives of a position of a control element in the Bratland sense\n\nExample of PID controller (Bratland 2014):\n\nJust as displacement and its derivatives form kinematics, also displacement and its integrals form \"integral kinematics\" (Janzen \"et al.\" 2014), giving rise to the ordered list of \"n\"-th derivatives of displacement:\nRecent work in mechanics and memristors and memcapacitors further builds on the concept of absement, and assigns it the letter \"a\", and makes extensive use of plots such as the graph of absement as a function of displacement:\n\nStrain absement is the time-integral of strain, and is used extensively in mechanical systems and memsprings:\n\n"}
{"id": "2138223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2138223", "title": "Aeronomy", "text": "Aeronomy\n\nAeronomy is the meteorological science of the upper region of the Earth's or other planetary atmospheres, which relates to the atmospheric motions, its chemical composition and properties, and the reaction to it from the environment from space. The term \"aeronomy\" was introduced by Sydney Chapman in a Letter to the Editor of \"Nature\" entitled \"Some Thoughts on Nomenclature\" in 1946. Studies within the subject also investigate the causes of dissociation or ionization processes.\n\nToday the term also includes the science of the corresponding regions of the atmospheres of other planets. Aeronomy is a branch of atmospheric physics. Research in aeronomy requires access to balloons, satellites, and sounding rockets which provide valuable data about this region of the atmosphere. Atmospheric tides dominate the dynamics of the mesosphere and lower thermosphere, essential to understanding the atmosphere as a whole. Other phenomena studied are upper-atmospheric lightning discharges, such as red sprites, sprite halos or blue jets.\n\nAtmospheric tides are global-scale periodic oscillations of the atmosphere. In many ways they are analogous to ocean tides. Atmospheric tides form an important mechanism for transporting energy input into the lower atmosphere from the upper atmosphere, while dominating the dynamics of the mesosphere and lower thermosphere. Therefore, learning about atmospheric tides is essential in understanding the atmosphere as a whole. Modeling and observations of atmospheric tides are needed in order to monitor and predict changes in the Earth's atmosphere.\n\nUpper-atmospheric lightning or upper-atmospheric discharge are terms sometimes used by researchers to refer to a family of electrical-breakdown phenomena that occur well above the altitudes of normal lightning. The preferred current usage is transient luminous events (TLEs) to refer to the various types of electrical-discharge phenomena induced in the upper atmosphere by tropospheric lightning. TLEs includes red sprites, sprite halos, blue jets, and elves.\n\n"}
{"id": "54952937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54952937", "title": "Agios Dionysios Monastery, Olympus", "text": "Agios Dionysios Monastery, Olympus\n\nThe Monastery of Agios Dionysios in Olympus () is a Greek Orthodox monastery on the slopes of Mount Olympus, the most important monastery in the Pieria Prefecture. \nIt is located at the Enipeas ravine at an altitude of 850 m () \nThe original monastery was established in 1542, was destroyed by the Germans in 1943. A new monastery was established at a distance of some 5 km to the northeast of the old one, closer to the town of Litochoro. () .\nThe Agios Dionysios Monastery is a stauropegic monastery, subordinated directly to the Patriarch of Constantinople (Istanbul).\n\nBeside the monasteries Kanalon and Agia Triada, Sparmos it is one of the monasteries located at Mount Olympus.\n\nOriginally the name of the ancient monastery was Agia Triada, Holy Trinity, (Greek Αγία Τριάδα). In the course of time, however, the name of its founder, Saint Dionysius of Olympus , has prevailed. The new monastery was named directly after Saint Dionysius.\n\nThe old monastery was founded and devoted to the Holy Trinity by Saint Dionysius in 1542. \nSurrounded by strong high walls and towered by a watchtower, it resembles a small fortress. During various conflicts it served as a shelter for civilians, but also for fighting troops. \nToday the visitor can see a ruin from the outside. In its history the monastery has been destroyed and rebuilt several times. It was destroyed in 1821 by Veli Pasha and again by the German Wehrmacht in April 1943. \nAssuming that the building might serve as a refuge for Greek resistance fighters, the Germans first bombed it and later demolished it with explosives.\n\nTwenty minutes' walk from the old monastery is the chapel of Saint Dionysius. It is located at the Enipeas River in a southeastern direction from the monastery. Who from Litochoro ascends to Prionia comes necessarily by the chapel. It is built under an overhanging rock, just above a spring. It consists of a small devotional space where the saint celebrated the sacred liturgy during his time as a hermit. A small shed served him as a sleeping place.\n\nThe monks abandoned the destroyed monastery and moved into the Metochion, the estate of the monastery. The Metochion was founded in 1650 and consisted, apart from the lands, of a church, the economic buildings and another building in which the monks lived, who took care of the farm. \n\nAfter the Second World War, this estate was gradually expanded into a monastery. The older part of the new monastery is equipped with a heavy iron door and thus separated from the rest of the system. It contains the cells of the monks, the refectory and the administrative building.\nAs is usual with Greek Orthodox monasteries, the this part of the building is subject to the \"abaton\" (\"inaccessible\") rule, prohibiting access to female visitors.\nJust outside are the stables, workshops and the cheese factory. All buildings outside the \"abaton\", such as the new church or the museum, were built after 1985.\n\nThe monastery church was built in classical orthodox style. An image of Saint Dionysius adorns the entrance. Inside, in addition to the usual sumptuous decor of an Orthodox church, there are some special features. It is striking that many chairs, standing consoles and other items are decorated with marquetry. The inserts are made of ivory or mother-of-pearl. On a small table stands an icon depicting the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Next to it is a little basket with notes and ball-point pens. Believers who want to make a request to the saint can put it here on paper.\n\nTo the west of the complex is the museum. In troubled times, of which the old monastery lived some, monks were hiding the monastic treasures in secret vaults. A selection of rescued exhibits:\n\n\nQuite inconspicuous, but significant, some framed black-and-white photographs hang near the entrance. They show the old monastery in the mountains just before its destruction. A soldier of the Wehrmacht made these pictures secretly and sent them to the monastery a few years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "52289128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52289128", "title": "Albert (2016 film)", "text": "Albert (2016 film)\n\nAlbert is a 2016 American CGI Christmas-themed musical comedy TV movie produced by Nickelodeon and distributed by Paramount Television. It premiered on December 9, 2016, and is Nickelodeon's first original animated TV movie.\n\nThe movie centers on Albert, a small Douglas fir tree, as he sets out on an adventure to become the most famous Christmas tree in his hometown.\n\n\n\"Albert\" premiered on Nickelodeon on December 9, 2016. It also premiered on Nicktoons on December 10, 2016.\n\nThe television film was released on DVD in Region 1 on November 14, 2017 by Paramount Home Entertainment. It was then released on DVD in Region 2 on October 29, 2018 by Paramount Home Entertainment.\n\nAaron and Will Eisenberg, the film's screenwriters, have written a book based on the movie, \"Albert: The Little Tree with Big Dreams\", to anticipate the premiere of the film.\n"}
{"id": "366555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366555", "title": "Biomolecule", "text": "Biomolecule\n\nA biomolecule or biological molecule is a loosely used term for molecules and ions that are present in organisms, essential to some typically biological process such as cell division, morphogenesis, or development. Biomolecules include large macromolecules (or polyanions) such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids, as well as small molecules such as primary metabolites, secondary metabolites, and natural products. A more general name for this class of material is biological materials. Biomolecules are usually endogenous but may also be exogenous. For example, pharmaceutical drugs may be natural products or semisynthetic (biopharmaceuticals) or they may be totally synthetic.\n\nBiology and its subsets of biochemistry and molecular biology study biomolecules and their reactions. Most biomolecules are organic compounds, and just four elements—oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen—make up 96% of the human body's mass. But many other elements, such as the various biometals, are present in small amounts.\n\nThe uniformity of specific types of molecules (the biomolecules) and of some metabolic pathways as invariant features between the diversity of life forms is called \"biochemical universals\" or \"theory of material unity of the living beings\", a unifying concept in biology, along with cell theory and evolution theory.\n\nA diverse range of biomolecules exist, including:\n\n\nNucleosides are molecules formed by attaching a nucleobase to a ribose or deoxyribose ring. Examples of these include cytidine (C), uridine (U), adenosine (A), guanosine (G), and thymidine (T).\n\nNucleosides can be phosphorylated by specific kinases in the cell, producing nucleotides. \nBoth DNA and RNA are polymers, consisting of long, linear molecules assembled by polymerase enzymes from repeating structural units, or monomers, of mononucleotides. DNA uses the deoxynucleotides C, G, A, and T, while RNA uses the ribonucleotides (which have an extra hydroxyl(OH) group on the pentose ring) C, G, A, and U. Modified bases are fairly common (such as with methyl groups on the base ring), as found in ribosomal RNA or transfer RNAs or for discriminating the new from old strands of DNA after replication.\n\nEach nucleotide is made of an acyclic nitrogenous base, a pentose and one to three phosphate groups. They contain carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, hydrogen and phosphorus. They serve as sources of chemical energy (adenosine triphosphate and guanosine triphosphate), participate in cellular signaling (cyclic guanosine monophosphate and cyclic adenosine monophosphate), and are incorporated into important cofactors of enzymatic reactions (coenzyme A, flavin adenine dinucleotide, flavin mononucleotide, and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate).\n\nDNA structure is dominated by the well-known double helix formed by Watson-Crick base-pairing of C with G and A with T. This is known as B-form DNA, and is overwhelmingly the most favorable and common state of DNA; its highly specific and stable base-pairing is the basis of reliable genetic information storage. DNA can sometimes occur as single strands (often needing to be stabilized by single-strand binding proteins) or as A-form or Z-form helices, and occasionally in more complex 3D structures such as the crossover at Holliday junctions during DNA replication.\nRNA, in contrast, forms large and complex 3D tertiary structures reminiscent of proteins, as well as the loose single strands with locally folded regions that constitute messenger RNA molecules. Those RNA structures contain many stretches of A-form double helix, connected into definite 3D arrangements by single-stranded loops, bulges, and junctions. Examples are tRNA, ribosomes, ribozymes, and riboswitches. These complex structures are facilitated by the fact that RNA backbone has less local flexibility than DNA but a large set of distinct conformations, apparently because of both positive and negative interactions of the extra OH on the ribose. Structured RNA molecules can do highly specific binding of other molecules and can themselves be recognized specifically; in addition, they can perform enzymatic catalysis (when they are known as \"ribozymes\", as initially discovered by Tom Cech and colleagues.\n\nMonosaccharides are the simplest form of carbohydrates with only one simple sugar. They essentially contain an aldehyde or ketone group in their structure. The presence of an aldehyde group in a monosaccharide is indicated by the prefix \"aldo-\". Similarly, a ketone group is denoted by the prefix \"keto-\". Examples of monosaccharides are the hexoses, glucose, fructose, Trioses, Tetroses, Heptoses, galactose, pentoses, ribose, and deoxyribose. Consumed fructose and glucose have different rates of gastric emptying, are differentially absorbed and have different metabolic fates, providing multiple opportunities for 2 different saccharides to differentially affect food intake. Most saccharides eventually provide fuel for cellular respiration.\n\nDisaccharides are formed when two monosaccharides, or two single simple sugars, form a bond with removal of water. They can be hydrolyzed to yield their saccharin building blocks by boiling with dilute acid or reacting them with appropriate enzymes. Examples of disaccharides include sucrose, maltose, and lactose.\n\nPolysaccharides are polymerized monosaccharides, or complex carbohydrates. They have multiple simple sugars. Examples are starch, cellulose, and glycogen. They are generally large and often have a complex branched connectivity. Because of their size, polysaccharides are not water-soluble, but their many hydroxy groups become hydrated individually when exposed to water, and some polysaccharides form thick colloidal dispersions when heated in water. Shorter polysaccharides, with 3 - 10 monomers, are called oligosaccharides.\nA fluorescent indicator-displacement molecular imprinting sensor was developed for discriminating saccharides. It successfully discriminated three brands of orange juice beverage. The change in fluorescence intensity of the sensing films resulting is directly related to the saccharide concentration.\n\nLignin is a complex polyphenolic macromolecule composed mainly of beta-O4-aryl linkages. After cellulose, lignin is the second most abundant biopolymer and is one of the primary structural components of most plants. It contains subunits derived from \"p\"-coumaryl alcohol, coniferyl alcohol, and sinapyl alcohol and is unusual among biomolecules in that it is racemic. The lack of optical activity is due to the polymerization of lignin which occurs via free radical coupling reactions in which there is no preference for either configuration at a chiral center.\n\nLipids (oleaginous) are chiefly fatty acid esters, and are the basic building blocks of biological membranes. Another biological role is energy storage (e.g., triglycerides). Most lipids consist of a polar or hydrophilic head (typically glycerol) and one to three nonpolar or hydrophobic fatty acid tails, and therefore they are amphiphilic. Fatty acids consist of unbranched chains of carbon atoms that are connected by single bonds alone (saturated fatty acids) or by both single and double bonds (unsaturated fatty acids). The chains are usually 14-24 carbon groups long, but it is always an even number.\n\nFor lipids present in biological membranes, the hydrophilic head is from one of three classes:\n\n\nOther lipids include prostaglandins and leukotrienes which are both 20-carbon fatty acyl units synthesized from arachidonic acid.\nThey are also known as fatty acids\n\nAmino acids contain both amino and carboxylic acid functional groups. (In biochemistry, the term amino acid is used when referring to those amino acids in which the amino and carboxylate functionalities are attached to the same carbon, plus proline which is not actually an amino acid).\n\nModified amino acids are sometimes observed in proteins; this is usually the result of enzymatic modification after translation (protein synthesis). For example, phosphorylation of serine by kinases and dephosphorylation by phosphatases is an important control mechanism in the cell cycle. Only two amino acids other than the standard twenty are known to be incorporated into proteins during translation, in certain organisms:\n\n\nBesides those used in protein synthesis, other biologically important amino acids include carnitine (used in lipid transport within a cell), ornithine, GABA and taurine.\n\nThe particular series of amino acids that form a protein is known as that protein's primary structure. This sequence is determined by the genetic makeup of the individual. It specifies the order of side-chain groups along the linear polypeptide \"backbone\".\n\nProteins have two types of well-classified, frequently occurring elements of local structure defined by a particular pattern of hydrogen bonds along the backbone: alpha helix and beta sheet. Their number and arrangement is called the secondary structure of the protein. Alpha helices are regular spirals stabilized by hydrogen bonds between the backbone CO group (carbonyl) of one amino acid residue and the backbone NH group (amide) of the i+4 residue. The spiral has about 3.6 amino acids per turn, and the amino acid side chains stick out from the cylinder of the helix. Beta pleated sheets are formed by backbone hydrogen bonds between individual beta strands each of which is in an \"extended\", or fully stretched-out, conformation. The strands may lie parallel or antiparallel to each other, and the side-chain direction alternates above and below the sheet. Hemoglobin contains only helices, natural silk is formed of beta pleated sheets, and many enzymes have a pattern of alternating helices and beta-strands. The secondary-structure elements are connected by \"loop\" or \"coil\" regions of non-repetitive conformation, which are sometimes quite mobile or disordered but usually adopt a well-defined, stable arrangement.\n\nThe overall, compact, 3D structure of a protein is termed its tertiary structure or its \"fold\". It is formed as result of various attractive forces like hydrogen bonding, disulfide bridges, hydrophobic interactions, hydrophilic interactions, van der Waals force etc.\n\nWhen two or more polypeptide chains (either of identical or of different sequence) cluster to form a protein, quaternary structure of protein is formed. Quaternary structure is an attribute of polymeric (same-sequence chains) or heteromeric (different-sequence chains) proteins like hemoglobin, which consists of two \"alpha\" and two \"beta\" polypeptide chains.\n\nAn apoenzyme (or, generally, an apoprotein) is the protein without any small-molecule cofactors, substrates, or inhibitors bound. It is often important as an inactive storage, transport, or secretory form of a protein. This is required, for instance, to protect the secretory cell from the activity of that protein.\nApoenzymes becomes active enzymes on addition of a cofactor. Cofactors can be either inorganic (e.g., metal ions and iron-sulfur clusters) or organic compounds, (e.g., [Flavin group|flavin] and heme). Organic cofactors can be either prosthetic groups, which are tightly bound to an enzyme, or coenzymes, which are released from the enzyme's active site during the reaction.\n\nIsoenzymes, or isozymes, are multiple forms of an enzyme, with slightly different protein sequence and closely similar but usually not identical functions. They are either products of different genes, or else different products of alternative splicing. They may either be produced in different organs or cell types to perform the same function, or several isoenzymes may be produced in the same cell type under differential regulation to suit the needs of changing development or environment. LDH (lactate dehydrogenase) has multiple isozymes, while fetal hemoglobin is an example of a developmentally regulated isoform of a non-enzymatic protein. The relative levels of isoenzymes in blood can be used to diagnose problems in the organ of secretion .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3797013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3797013", "title": "Black carbon", "text": "Black carbon\n\nChemically, black carbon (BC) is a component of fine particulate matter (PM ≤ 2.5 µm in aerodynamic diameter). Black carbon consists of pure carbon in several linked forms. It is formed through the incomplete combustion of fossil fuels, biofuel, and biomass, and is emitted in both anthropogenic and naturally occurring soot.\n\nBlack carbon causes human morbidity and premature mortality.\n\nIn climatology, black carbon is a climate forcing agent. Black carbon warms the Earth by absorbing sunlight and heating the atmosphere and by reducing albedo when deposited on snow and ice (direct effects) and indirectly by interaction with clouds, with the total forcing of 1.1 W/m. Black carbon stays in the atmosphere for only several days to weeks, whereas carbon dioxide () has an atmospheric lifetime of more than 100 years.\n\nThe term \"black carbon\" is also used in soil sciences and geology, referring either to deposited atmospheric black carbon or to directly incorporated black carbon from vegetation fires. Especially in the tropics, black carbon in soils significantly contributes to fertility as it is able to absorb important plant nutrients.\n\nThe term black carbon was coined by Tihomir Novakov, referred to as \"the godfather of black carbon studies\" by James Hansen, in the 1970s. Smoke or soot was the first pollutant to be recognized as having significant environmental impact yet one of the last to be studied by the contemporary atmospheric research community. Faraday recognized that soot was composed of carbon and that it was produced by the incomplete combustion of carbon-containing fuels.\n\nSoot is composed of a complex mixture of organic compounds which are weakly absorbing in the visible spectral region and a highly absorbing black component which is variously called “elemental”, “graphitic” or “black carbon”. The term elemental carbon has been used in conjunction with thermal and wet chemical determinations and the term graphitic carbon suggests the presence of graphite-like micro-crystalline structures in soot as evidenced by Raman Spectroscopy. The term black carbon is used to imply that this soot component is primarily responsible for the absorption of visible light. The term black carbon is used as a synonym for both the elemental and graphitic component of soot. It can be measured using different types of devices based on absorption or dispersion of a light beam or derived from noise measurements.\n\nThe disastrous effects of coal pollution on human health and mortality in the early 1950s in London led to the UK Clean Air Act 1956. This act led to dramatic reductions of soot concentrations in the United Kingdom which were followed by similar reductions in US cities like Pittsburgh and St. Louis. These reductions were largely achieved by the decreased use of soft coal for domestic heating by switching either to “smokeless” coals or other forms of fuel, such as fuel oil and natural gas. The steady reduction of smoke pollution in the industrial cities of Europe and United States caused a shift in research emphasis away from soot emissions and the almost complete neglect of black carbon as a significant aerosol constituent, at least in the United States.\n\nIn the 1970s, however, a series of studies substantially changed this picture and demonstrated that black carbon as well as the organic soot components continued to be a large component in urban aerosols across the United States and Europe which led to improved controls of these emissions. In the less-developed regions of the world where there were limited or no controls on soot emissions the air quality continued to degrade as the population increased. It was not generally realized until many years later that from the perspective of global effects the emissions from these regions were extremely important.\n\nMost of the developments mentioned above relate to air quality in urban atmospheres. The first indications of the role of black carbon in a larger, global context came from studies of the Arctic Haze phenomena. Black carbon was identified in the Arctic haze aerosols and in the Arctic snow.\n\nIn general, aerosol particles can affect the radiation balance leading to a cooling or heating effect with the magnitude and sign of the temperature change largely dependent on aerosol optical properties, aerosol concentrations, and the albedo of the underlying surface. A purely scattering aerosol will reflect energy that would normally be absorbed by the earth-atmosphere system back to space and leads to a cooling effect. As one adds an absorbing component to the aerosol, it can lead to a heating of the earth-atmosphere system if the reflectivity of the underlying surface is sufficiently high.\n\nEarly studies of the effects of aerosols on atmospheric radiative transfer on a global scale assumed a dominantly scattering aerosol with only a small absorbing component, since this appears to be a good representation of naturally occurring aerosols. However, as discussed above, urban aerosols have a large black carbon component and if these particles can be transported on a global scale then one would expect a heating effect over surfaces with a high surface albedo like snow or ice. Furthermore, if these particles are deposited in the snow an additional heating effect would occur due to reductions in the surface albedo.\n\nLevels of Black carbon are most often determined based on the modification of the optical properties of a fiber filter by deposited particles. Either filter transmittance, filter reflectance or a combination of transmittance and reflectance is measured. Aethalometers are frequently used devices that optically detect the changing absorption of light transmitted through a filter ticket. The USEPA Environmental Technology Verification program evaluated both the Aethalometer and also the Sunset Laboratory thermal-optical analyzer. A multiangle absorption photometer takes into account both transmitted and reflected light. Alternative methods rely on satellite based measurements of optical depth for large areas or more recently on spectral noise analysis for very local concentrations.\n\nIn the late 1970s and early 1980s surprisingly large ground level concentrations of black carbon were observed throughout the western Arctic. Modeling studies indicated that they could lead to heating over polar ice. One of the major uncertainties in modeling the effects of the Arctic haze on the solar radiation balance was limited knowledge of the vertical distributions of black carbon.\n\nDuring 1983 and 1984 as part of the NOAA AGASP program, the first measurements of such distributions in the Arctic atmosphere were obtained with an aethalometer which had the capability of measuring black carbon on a real-time basis. These measurements showed substantial concentrations of black carbon found throughout the western Arctic troposphere including the North Pole. The vertical profiles showed either a strongly layered structure or an almost uniform distribution up to eight kilometers with concentrations within layers as large as those found at ground level in typical mid-latitude urban areas in the United States. The absorption optical depths associated with these vertical profiles were large as evidenced by a vertical profile over the Norwegian arctic where absorption optical depths of 0.023 to 0.052 were calculated respectively for external and internal mixtures of black carbon with the other aerosol components.\n\nOptical depths of these magnitudes lead to a substantial change in the solar radiation balance over the highly reflecting Arctic snow surface during the March–April time frame of these measurements modeled the Arctic aerosol for an absorption optical depth of 0.021 (which is close to the average of an internal and external mixtures for the AGASP flights), under cloud-free conditions. These heating effects were viewed at the time as potentially one of the major causes of Arctic warming trends as described in Archives of Dept. of Energy, Basic Energy Sciences Accomplishments.\n\nUp to 30% of the total carbon stored in soils is contributed by black carbon. Especially for tropical soils black carbon serves as a reservoir for nutrients. Experiments showed that soils without high amounts of black carbon are significantly less fertile than soils that contain black carbon. An example for this increased soil fertility are the Terra preta soils of central Amazonia, which are presumably human-made by pre-Columbian native populations. Terra Preta soils have on average three times higher soil organic matter (SOM) content, higher nutrient levels and a better nutrient retention capacity than surrounding infertile soils. In this context, the slash and burn agricultural practice used in tropical regions does not only enhance productivity by releasing nutrients from the burned vegetation but also by adding black carbon to the soil. Nonetheless, for a sustainable management, a slash-and-char practice would be better in order to prevent high emissions of CO and volatile black carbon. Furthermore, the positive effects of this type of agriculture are counteracted if used for large patches so that soil erosion is not prevented by the vegetation.\n\nDeveloped countries were once the primary source of black carbon emissions, but this began to change in the 1950s with the adoption of pollution control technologies in those countries. Whereas the United States emits about 21% of the world’s CO, it emits 6.1% of the world’s soot. The European Union and United States might further reduce their black carbon emissions by accelerating implementation of black carbon regulations that currently take effect in 2015 or 2020 and by supporting the adoption of pending International Maritime Organization (IMO) regulations. Existing regulations also could be expanded to increase the use of clean diesel and clean coal technologies and to develop second-generation technologies.\n\nToday, the majority of black carbon emissions are from developing countries and this trend is expected to increase. The largest sources of black carbon are Asia, Latin America, and Africa. China and India together account for 25-35% of global black carbon emissions. Black carbon emissions from China doubled from 2000 to 2006. Existing and well-tested technologies used by developed countries, such as clean diesel and clean coal, could be transferred to developing countries to reduce their emissions.\n\nBlack carbon emissions are highest in and around major source regions. This results in regional hotspots of atmospheric solar heating due to black carbon. Hotspot areas include:\n\nApproximately three billion people live in these hotspots.\n\nApproximately 20% of black carbon is emitted from burning biofuels, 40% from fossil fuels, and 40% from open biomass burning. Similar estimates of the sources of black carbon emissions are as follows:\n\n\nBlack carbon sources vary by region. For example, the majority of soot emissions in South Asia are due to biofuel cooking, whereas in East Asia, coal combustion for residential and industrial uses plays a larger role. In Western Europe, traffic seems to be the most important source since high concentrations coincide with proximity to major roads or participation to (motorized) traffic.\n\nFossil fuel and biofuel soot have significantly greater amounts of black carbon than climate-cooling aerosols and particulate matter, making reductions of these sources particularly powerful mitigation strategies. For example, emissions from the diesel engines and marine vessels contain higher levels of black carbon compared to other sources. Regulating black carbon emissions from diesel engines and marine vessels therefore presents a significant opportunity to reduce black carbon’s global warming impact.\n\nBiomass burning emits greater amounts of climate-cooling aerosols and particulate matter than black carbon, resulting in short-term cooling. However, over the long-term, biomass burning may cause a net warming when CO emissions and deforestation are considered. Reducing biomass emissions would therefore reduce global warming in the long-term and provide co-benefits of reduced air pollution, CO emissions, and deforestation. It has been estimated that by switching to slash-and-char from slash-and-burn agriculture, which turns biomass into ash using open fires that release black carbon and GHGs, 12% of anthropogenic carbon emissions caused by land use change could be reduced annually, which is approximately 0.66 Gt CO-eq. per year, or 2% of all annual global CO-eq emissions.\n\nBlack carbon is a form of ultrafine particulate matter, which when released in the air causes premature human mortality and disability. In addition, atmospheric black carbon changes the radiative energy balance of the climate system in a way that raises air and surface temperatures, causing a variety of detrimental environmental impacts on humans, on agriculture, and on plant and animal ecosystems.\n\nParticulate matter is the most harmful to public health of all air pollutants in Europe. Black carbon particulate matter contains very fine carcinogens and is therefore particularly harmful.\n\nIt is estimated that from 640,000 to 4,900,000 premature human deaths could be prevented every year by utilizing available mitigation measures to reduce black carbon in the atmosphere.\n\nHumans are exposed to black carbon by inhalation of air in the immediate vicinity of local sources. Important indoor sources include candles and biomass burning whereas traffic and occasionally forest fires are the major outdoor sources of black carbon exposure. Concentrations of black carbon decrease sharply with increasing distance from (traffic) sources which makes it an atypical component of particulate matter. This makes it difficult to estimate exposure of populations. For particulate matter epidemiological studies have traditionally relied on single fixed site measurements or inferred residential concentrations. Recent studies have shown that as much black carbon is inhaled in traffic and at other locations as at the home address. \nHigh peak concentrations are encountered during car driving. High in-vehicle concentrations of black carbon have been associated with driving during rush hours, on highways and in dense traffic.\n\nEven relatively low exposure concentrations of Black Carbon have a direct effect on the lung function of adults and an inflammatory effect on the respiratory system of children.\n\nThe public health benefits of reduction in the amount of soot and other particulate matter has been recognized for years. However, high concentrations persist in industrializing areas in Asia and in urban areas in the West such as Chicago. The WHO estimates that air pollution causes nearly two million premature deaths per year. By reducing black carbon, a primary component of fine particulate matter, the health risks from air pollution will decline. In fact, public health concerns have given rise to leading to many efforts to reduce such emissions, for example, from diesel vehicles and cooking stoves.\n\nDirect effect Black carbon particles directly absorb sunlight and reduce the planetary albedo when suspended in the atmosphere.\n\nSemi-direct effect Black carbon absorb incoming solar radiation, perturb the temperature structure of the atmosphere, and influence cloud cover. They may either increase or decrease cloud cover under different conditions.\n\nSnow/ice albedo effect When deposited on high albedo surfaces like ice and snow, black carbon particles reduce the total surface albedo available to reflect solar energy back into space. Small initial snow albedo reduction may have a large forcing because of a positive feedback: Reduced snow albedo would increase surface temperature. The increased surface temperature would decrease the snow cover and further decrease surface albedo.\n\nIndirect effect Black carbon may also indirectly cause changes in the absorption or reflection of solar radiation through changes in the properties and behavior of clouds. Research scheduled for publication in 2013 shows black carbon plays a role second only to carbon dioxide in climate change. Effects are complex, resulting from a variety of factors, but due to the short life of black carbon in the atmosphere, about a week as compared to carbon dioxide which last centuries, control of black carbon offers possible opportunities for slowing, or even reversing, climate change.\n\nEstimates of black carbon’s globally averaged direct radiative forcing vary from the IPCC’s estimate of + 0.34 watts per square meter (W/m) ± 0.25, to a more recent estimate by V. Ramanathan and G. Carmichael of 0.9 W/m.\n\nThe IPCC also estimated the globally averaged snow albedo effect of black carbon at +0.1 ± 0.1 W/m.\n\nBased on the IPCC estimate, it would be reasonable to conclude that the combined direct and indirect snow albedo effects for black carbon rank it as the third largest contributor to globally averaged positive radiative forcing since the pre-industrial period. In comparison, the more recent direct radiative forcing estimate by Ramanathan and Carmichael would lead one to conclude that black carbon has contributed the second largest globally averaged radiative forcing after carbon dioxide (CO), and that the radiative forcing of black carbon is “as much as 55% of the CO forcing and is larger than the forcing due to the other greenhouse gasses (GHGs) such as CH, CFCs, NO, or tropospheric ozone.”\n\nTable 1 : Estimates of Black Carbon Radiative Forcing, by Effect\nTable 2: Estimated Climate Forcings (W/m)\nAccording to the , “the presence of black carbon over highly reflective surfaces, such as snow and ice, or clouds, may cause a significant positive radiative forcing.” The IPCC also notes that emissions from biomass burning, which usually have a negative forcing, have a positive forcing over snow fields in areas such as the Himalayas.\n\nAccording to Charles Zender, black carbon is a significant contributor to Arctic ice-melt, and reducing such emissions may be “the most efficient way to mitigate Arctic warming that we know of”. The “climate forcing due to snow/ice albedo change is of the order of 1.0 W/m at middle- and high-latitude land areas in the Northern Hemisphere and over the Arctic Ocean.” The “soot effect on snow albedo may be responsible for a quarter of observed global warming.” “Soot deposition increases surface melt on ice masses, and the meltwater spurs multiple radiative and dynamical feedback processes that accelerate ice disintegration,” according to NASA scientists James Hansen and Larissa Nazarenko. As a result of this feedback process, “BC on snow warms the planet about three times more than an equal forcing of CO.” When black carbon concentrations in the Arctic increase during the winter and spring due to Arctic Haze, surface temperatures increase by 0.5 °C. Black carbon emissions also significantly contribute to Arctic ice-melt, which is critical because “nothing in climate is more aptly described as a ‘tipping point’ than the 0 °C boundary that separates frozen from liquid water—the bright, reflective snow and ice from the dark, heat-absorbing ocean.”\n\nBlack carbon emissions from northern Eurasia, North America, and Asia have the greatest absolute impact on Arctic warming. However, black carbon emissions actually occurring within the Arctic have a disproportionately larger impact per particle on Arctic warming than emissions originating elsewhere. As Arctic ice melts and shipping activity increases, emissions originating within the Arctic are expected to rise.\n\nIn some regions, such as the Himalayas, the impact of black carbon on melting snowpack and glaciers may be equal to that of CO. Warmer air resulting from the presence of black carbon in South and East Asia over the Himalayas contributes to a warming of approximately 0.6 °C. An “analysis of temperature trends on the Tibetan side of the Himalayas reveals warming in excess of 1 °C.” A summer aerosol sampling on a glacier saddle of Mt. Everest (Qomolangma) in 2003 showed industrially induced sulfate from South Asia may cross over the highly elevated Himalaya. This indicated BC in South Asia could also have the same transport mode. And such kind of signal might have been detected in at a black carbon monitoring site in the hinterland of Tibet. Snow sampling and measurement suggested black carbon deposited in some Himalayan glaciers may reduce the surface albedo by 0.01-0.02. Black carbon record based on a shallow ice core drilled from the East Rongbuk glacier showed a dramatic increasing trend of black carbon concentrations in the ice stratigraphy since the 1990s, and simulated average radiative forcing caused by black carbon was nearly 2 W/m in 2002. This large warming trend is the proposed causal factor for the accelerating retreat of Himalayan glaciers, which threatens fresh water supplies and food security in China and India. A general darkening trend in the mid-Himalaya glaciers revealed by MODIS data since 2000 could be partially attributed to black carbon and light absorbing impurities like dust in the springtime, which was later extended to the whole Hindu Kush-Kararoram-Himalaya glaciers research finding a widespread darkening trend of -0.001 yr over the period of 2000-2011. The most rapid decrease in albedo (more negative than -0.0015 yr) occurred in the altitudes over 5500 m above sea level.\n\nIn its 2007 report, the IPCC estimated for the first time the direct radiative forcing of black carbon from fossil fuel emissions at + 0.2 W/m², and the radiative forcing of black carbon through its effect on the surface albedo of snow and ice at an additional + 0.1 W/m². More recent studies and public testimony by many of the same scientists cited in the IPCC’s report estimate that emissions from black carbon are the second-largest contributor to global warming after carbon dioxide emissions, and that reducing these emissions may be the fastest strategy for slowing climate change.\n\nSince 1950, many countries have significantly reduced black carbon emissions, especially from fossil fuel sources, primarily to improve public health from improved air quality, and “technology exists for a drastic reduction of fossil fuel related BC” throughout the world.\n\nGiven black carbon’s relatively short lifespan, reducing black carbon emissions would reduce warming within weeks. Because black carbon remains in the atmosphere only for a few weeks, reducing black carbon emissions may be the fastest means of slowing climate change in the near term. Control of black carbon, particularly from fossil-fuel and biofuel sources, is very likely to be the fastest method of slowing global warming in the immediate future, and major cuts in black carbon emissions could slow the effects of climate change for a decade or two. Reducing black carbon emissions could help keep the climate system from passing the tipping points for abrupt climate changes, including significant sea-level rise from the melting of Greenland and/or Antarctic ice sheets.\n\n“Emissions of black carbon are the second strongest contribution to current global warming, after carbon dioxide emissions”. Calculation of black carbon’s combined climate forcing at 1.0–1.2 W/m², which “is as much as 55% of the CO forcing and is larger than the forcing due to the other [GHGs] such as CH, CFCs, NO or tropospheric ozone.” Other scientists estimate the total magnitude of black carbon’s forcing between + 0.2 and 1.1 W/m² with varying ranges due to uncertainties. (See Table 1.) This compares with the IPCC’s climate forcing estimates of 1.66 W/m for CO and 0.48 W/m² for CH. (See Table 2.) In addition, black carbon forcing is two to three times as effective in raising temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere and the Arctic than equivalent forcing values of CO.\n\nJacobson calculates that reducing fossil fuel and biofuel soot particles would eliminate about 40% of the net observed global warming. (See Figure 1.) In addition to black carbon, fossil fuel and biofuel soot contain aerosols and particulate matter that cool the planet by reflecting the sun’s radiation away from the Earth. When the aerosols and particulate matter are accounted for, fossil fuel and biofuel soot are increasing temperatures by about 0.35 °C.\n\nBlack carbon alone is estimated to have a 20-year Global Warming Potential (GWP) of 4,470, and a 100-year GWP of 1,055–2,240. Fossil fuel soot, as a result of mixing with cooling aerosols and particulate matter, has a lower 20-year GWP of 2,530, and a 100-year GWP of 840-1,280.\n\nThe Integrated Assessment of Black Carbon and Tropospheric Ozone published in 2011 by the United Nations Environment Programme and World Meteorological Organization calculates that cutting black carbon, along with tropospheric ozone and its precursor, methane, can reduce the rate of global warming by half and the rate of warming in the Arctic by two-thirds, in combination with CO cuts. By trimming “peak warming”, such cuts can keep current global temperature rise below 1.5 ˚C for 30 years and below 2 ˚C for 60 years, in combination with CO cuts. (FN: UNEP-WMO 2011.) See Table 1, on page 9 of the UNEP-WMO report.\n\nThe reduction of CO as well as SLCFs could keep global temperature rise under 1.5 ˚C through 2030, and below 2 ˚C through 2070, assuming CO is also cut. See the graph on page 12 of the UNEP-WMO report.\n\nRamanathan notes that “developed nations have reduced their black carbon emissions from fossil fuel sources by a factor of 5 or more since 1950. Thus, the technology exists for a drastic reduction of fossil fuel related black carbon.” \n\nJacobson believes that “[g]iven proper conditions and incentives, [soot] polluting technologies can be quickly phased out. In some small-scale applications (such as domestic cooking in developing countries), health and convenience will drive such a transition when affordable, reliable alternatives are available. For other sources, such as vehicles or coal boilers, regulatory approaches may be required to nudge either the transition to existing technology or the development of new technology.”\n\nHansen states that “technology is within reach that could greatly reduce soot, restoring snow albedo to near pristine values, while having multiple other benefits for climate, human health, agricultural productivity, and environmental aesthetics. Already soot emissions from coal are decreasing in many regions with transition from small users to power plants with scrubbers.”\n\nJacobson suggests converting “[U.S.] vehicles from fossil fuel to electric, plug-in-hybrid, or hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, where the electricity or hydrogen is produced by a renewable energy source, such as wind, solar, geothermal, hydroelectric, wave, or tidal power. Such a conversion would eliminate 160 Gg/yr (24%) of U.S. (or 1.5% of world) fossil-fuel soot and about 26% of U.S. (or 5.5% of world) carbon dioxide.” According to Jacobson’s estimates, this proposal would reduce soot and CO emissions by 1.63 GtCO–eq. per year. He notes, however, “that the elimination of hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides would also eliminate some cooling particles, reducing the net benefit by at most, half, but improving human health,” a substantial reduction for one policy in one country.\n\nFor diesel vehicles in particular there are several effective technologies available. Newer, more efficient diesel particulate filters (DPFs), or traps, can eliminate over 90% of black carbon emissions, but these devices require ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel (ULSD). To ensure compliance with new particulate rules for new on-road and non-road vehicles in the U.S., the EPA first required a nationwide shift to ULSD, which allowed DPFs to be used in diesel vehicles in order to meet the standards. Because of recent EPA regulations, black carbon emissions from diesel vehicles are expected to decline about 70 percent from 2001 to 2020.” Overall, “BC emissions in the United States are projected to decline by 42 percent from 2001 to 2020. By the time the full fleet is subject to these rules, EPA estimates that over 239,000 tons of particulate matter will be reduced annually. Outside of the US diesel oxidation catalysts are often available and DPFs will become available as ULSD is more widely commercialized.\n\nAnother technology for reducing black carbon emissions from diesel engines is to shift fuels to compressed natural gas. In New Delhi, India, the supreme court ordered shift to compressed natural gas for all public transport vehicles, including buses, taxis, and rickshaws, resulted in a climate benefit, “largely because of the dramatic reduction of black carbon emissions from the diesel bus engines.” Overall, the fuel switch for the vehicles reduced black carbon emissions enough to produce a 10 percent net reduction in CO-eq., and perhaps as much as 30 percent. The main gains were from diesel bus engines whose CO-eq. emissions were reduced 20 percent. According to a study examining these emissions reductions, “there is a significant potential for emissions reductions through the [UNFCCC] Clean Development for such fuel switching projects.”\n\nTechnologies are also in development to reduce some of the 133,000 metric tons of particulate matter emitted each year from ships. Ocean vessels use diesel engines, and particulate filters similar to those in use for land vehicles are now being tested on them. As with current particulate filters these too would require the ships to use ULSD, but if comparable emissions reductions are attainable, up to 120,000 metric tons of particulate emissions could be eliminated each year from international shipping. That is, if particulate filters could be shown reduce black carbon emissions 90 percent from ships as they do for land vehicles, 120,000 metric tons of today’s 133,000 metric tons of emissions would be prevented. Other efforts can reduce the amount of black carbon emissions from ships simply by decreasing the amount of fuel the ships use. By traveling at slower speeds or by using shore side electricity when at port instead of running the ship’s diesel engines for electric power, ships can save fuel and reduce emissions.\n\nReynolds and Kandlikar estimate that the shift to compressed natural gas for public transport in New Delhi ordered by the Supreme Court reduced climate emissions by 10 to 30%.\n\nRamanathan estimates that “providing alternative energy-efficient and smoke-free cookers and introducing transferring technology for reducing soot emissions from coal combustion in small industries could have major impacts on the radiative forcing due to soot.” Specifically, the impact of replacing biofuel cooking with black carbon-free cookers (solar, bio, and natural gas) in South and East Asia is dramatic: over South Asia, a 70 to 80% reduction in black carbon heating; and in East Asia, a 20 to 40% reduction.”\n\nCondensed aromatic ring structures indicate black carbon degradation in soil. Saprophytic fungi are being researched for their potential role in the degradation of black carbon.\n\nMany countries have existing national laws to regulate black carbon emissions, including laws that address particulate emissions. Some examples include:\n\n\nThe International Network for Environmental Compliance & Enforcement issued a Climate Compliance Alert on Black Carbon in 2008 which cited reduction of carbon black as a cost-effective way to reduce a major cause of global warming.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19357020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19357020", "title": "Born–Landé equation", "text": "Born–Landé equation\n\nThe Born–Landé equation is a means of calculating the lattice energy of a crystalline ionic compound. In 1918 Max Born and Alfred Landé proposed that the lattice energy could be derived from the electrostatic potential of the ionic lattice and a repulsive potential energy term.\n\nwhere:\n\nThe ionic lattice is modeled as an assembly of hard elastic spheres which are compressed together by the mutual attraction of the electrostatic charges on the ions. They achieve the observed equilibrium distance apart due to a balancing short range repulsion.\n\nThe electrostatic potential energy, \"E\", between a pair of ions of equal and opposite charge is:\n\nwhere\n\nFor a simple lattice consisting ions with equal and opposite charge in a 1:1 ratio, interactions between one ion and all other lattice ions need to be summed to calculate \"E\", sometimes called the Madelung or lattice energy:\n\nwhere\n\nBorn and Lande suggested that a repulsive interaction between the lattice ions would be proportional to so that the repulsive energy term, \"E\", would be expressed:\nwhere\n\nThe total intensive potential energy of an ion in the lattice can therefore be expressed as the sum of the Madelung and repulsive potentials:\n\nMinimizing this energy with respect to \"r\" yields the equilibrium separation \"r\" in terms of the unknown constant \"B\":\n\nEvaluating the minimum intensive potential energy and substituting the expression for \"B\" in terms of \"r\" yields the Born–Landé equation:\n\nThe Born–Landé equation gives a reasonable fit to the lattice energy.\n\nThe Born exponent is typically between 5 and 12. Approximate experimental values are listed below:\n\n"}
{"id": "25383507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25383507", "title": "Cascades Volcano Observatory", "text": "Cascades Volcano Observatory\n\nThe David A. Johnston Cascades Volcano Observatory (CVO) is a volcano observatory that monitors volcanoes in the northern Cascade Range. It was established in the summer of 1980, after the eruption of Mount St. Helens. Its current territory covers Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. The Cascade Range's extent includes northern California, and Cascade volcanoes in that state, such as Mount Shasta and Lassen Peak, previously fell under the CVO's jurisdiction. However, these volcanoes now fall under the jurisdiction of the California Volcano Observatory (CalVO), formed in February 2012 and based in Menlo Park, California, which monitors and researches volcanic activity throughout California and Nevada.\n\nThe Cascades Volcano Observatory is part of the United States Geological Survey, a scientific agency of the United States government. It is located in Vancouver, Washington in the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area.\n"}
{"id": "31952809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31952809", "title": "Center for Limnology", "text": "Center for Limnology\n\nThe Center for Limnology (CFL) is a research center within the College of Letters and Science at the University of Wisconsin—Madison. Established by the UW-Madison Board of Regents in July 1982, the mission of the center is to plan, conduct, and facilitate inland water research.\n\nThe CFL consists of two main research stations: the Arthur D. Hasler Laboratory for Limnology on the UW-Madison campus (Hasler Lab), and the Trout Lake Station, in Boulder Junction, Wisconsin.\n\n"}
{"id": "52102281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52102281", "title": "Chon Aike Formation", "text": "Chon Aike Formation\n\nThe Chon Aike Formation is an extensive geological formation, present in the Deseado Massif in north-central Santa Cruz Province, Patagonia, Argentina. It covers an area of approximately and consists of rhyolitic volcanic rocks, particularly ignimbrites and lavas, with smaller amounts of agglomerates and tuffs. Within dacitic rocks, plant fossils have been found.\n\nThe Chon Aike Formation forms part of the Chon Aike Province, also known as the Tobífera Series, a large igneous province that covers .\n\nThe northern part of the formation, Río Pinturas, has been dated to the Late Jurassic (140–160 ), while the western and eastern sections have been dated to 162 ± 11 Ma and 168 ± 2 Ma respectively, indicating Middle Jurassic eruptions. Fossil flora, however, suggests a Middle to Late Jurassic age. (See La Matilde Formation.)\n\nDuring the break-up of Gondwana around 180–165 Ma, the opening of the Weddell Sea lead to extension along the western margin of the South American Plate, resulting in intra-plate volcanism in the Chon Aike area and rifting in the Magallanes Basin.\nThe Chon Aike volcanism was probably related to the subduction of the Pacific Phoenix and Farallon plates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33615960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33615960", "title": "Comparison of chemistry and physics", "text": "Comparison of chemistry and physics\n\nChemistry and physics are branches of science that both study matter. The difference between the two lies in their scope and approach. Chemists and physicists are trained differently, and they have different professional roles, even when working in a team. The division between chemistry and physics becomes diffuse at the interface of the two branches, notably in fields such as physical chemistry, chemical physics, quantum mechanics, nuclear physics/chemistry, materials science, spectroscopy, solid state physics, solid-state chemistry, crystallography, and nanotechnology.\n\nPhysics and chemistry may overlap when the system under study involves matter composed of electrons and nuclei made of protons and neutrons. On the other hand, chemistry is not concerned with other forms of matter such as quarks, mu and tau leptons and dark matter.\n\nAlthough fundamental laws that govern the behavior of matter apply both in chemistry and physics, the disciplines of physics and chemistry are distinct. Physics is concerned with nature from a very large scale (the entire universe) down to a very small scale (subatomic particles). All physical phenomena that are measurable follow some behavior that is in accordance with the most basic principles studied in physics.\n\nPhysics is involved with the fundamental principles of physical phenomena and the basic forces of nature, and also gives insight into the aspects of space and time. Physics also deals with the basic principles that explain matter and energy, and may study aspects of atomic matter by following concepts derived from the most fundamental principles.\n\nChemistry focuses on how substances interact with each other and with energy (for example heat and light). The study of change of matter (chemical reactions) and synthesis lies at the heart of chemistry, and gives rise to concepts such as organic functional groups and rate laws for chemical reactions. Chemistry also studies the properties of matter at a larger scale (for example, astrochemistry) and the reactions of matter at a larger scale (for example, technical chemistry), but typically, explanations and predictions are related back to the underlying atomic structure, giving more emphasis on the methods for the identification of molecules and their mechanisms of transformation than any other science.\n\nAlthough both physics and chemistry are concerned with matter and its interaction with energy, the two disciplines differ in approach. In physics, it is typical to abstract from the specific type of matter, and to focus on the common properties of many different materials. In optics, for example, materials are characterized by their index of refraction, and materials with the same index of refraction will have identical properties. Chemistry, on the other hand, focuses on what compounds are present in a sample, and explores how changing the structure of molecules will change their reactivity and their physical properties.\n\nThe two sciences differ in the role that theory plays within the discipline. Physics can be divided into experimental and theoretical physics. Historically, theoretical physics has correctly predicted phenomena that were out of experimental reach at the time, and could be verified only after experimental techniques caught up. In chemistry, the role of theory historically has been a retrospective one, summarizing experimental data and predicting the outcome of similar experiments. However, with the increasing power of computational methods in chemistry, it has become possible to predict whether a hypothetical compound is stable or not before experimental data is available.\n\nIn a typical undergraduate program for physics majors, required courses are in the sub-disciplines of physics, with additional required courses in mathematics. Because much of the insight of physics is described by differential equations relating matter, space, and time (for example Newton's law of motion and the Maxwell equations of electromagnetism), students have to be familiar with differential equations. In a typical undergraduate program for chemistry majors, emphasis is placed on laboratory classes and understanding and applying models describing chemical bonds and molecular structure. Emphasis is also placed in the methods for analysis and the formulas and equations used when considering the chemical transformation. Students take courses in math, physics, chemistry, and often biochemistry. Between the two programs of study, there is a large area of overlap (calculus, introductory physics, quantum mechanics, thermodynamics). However, physics places a larger emphasis on fundamental theory (with its deep mathematical treatment) while chemistry places more emphasis in combining the most important mathematical definitions of the theory with the approach of the molecular models. Laboratory skills may differ in both programs, as students may be involved in different technologies, depending on the program and the institution of higher education (for example, a chemistry student may spend more laboratory time dealing with glassware for distillation and purification or on a form of chromatography-spectroscopy instrument, while a physics student may spend much more time dealing with a laser and non-linear optics technology or some complex electrical circuit).\n\nAccording to Bureau of Labor Statistics (United States Department of Labor), there are 80,000 chemists and 17,000 physicists working in the United States as of May 2010. In addition, 21,000 chemists and 13,500 physicists teach in high school. Chemistry is the only science that has an entire industry, the chemical industry, named after it, and many chemists work in this industry, in research and development, production, training, or management. Other industries employing chemists include the petroleum, pharmaceutical, and food industry. While there is no industry named after physics, many industries have grown out of physics research, most notably the semiconductor and electronics industry. Physicists are also employed outside of science, for example in finance, because of their training in modeling complex systems.\n\nChemistry and physics are not strictly separated sciences, and chemists and physicists work in interdisciplinary teams to explore the following topics.\n"}
{"id": "5571005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5571005", "title": "Compatibility (geochemistry)", "text": "Compatibility (geochemistry)\n\nIn geochemistry, compatibility is a measure of how readily a particular trace element substitutes for a major element within a mineral. \n\nCompatibility of an ion is controlled by two things: its valence and its ionic radius. Both must approximate those of the major element for the trace element to be compatible in the mineral. For instance, olivine (an abundant mineral in the upper mantle) has the chemical formula (Mg,Fe)SiO. Nickel, with very similar chemical behaviour to iron and magnesium, substitutes readily for them and hence is very compatible in the mantle. The compatibility of an element in a rock is a weighted average of its compatibility in each of the minerals present. By contrast, an incompatible element is one that is least stable within its crystal structure.\n\nCompatibility controls the partitioning of different elements during melting. If an element is incompatible in a rock, it partitions into a melt as soon as melting begins.\n\nIn general, when an element is referred to as being “compatible” without mentioning what rock it is compatible in, the mantle is implied. Thus incompatible elements are those that are enriched in the continental crust and depleted in the mantle. Examples include: rubidium, barium, uranium, and lanthanum. Compatible elements are depleted in the crust and enriched in the mantle, with examples nickel and titanium.\n\n\nWhite, William M., 2005. Geochemistry (Online textbook)\n"}
{"id": "8391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8391", "title": "Diana (mythology)", "text": "Diana (mythology)\n\nDiana (Classical Latin: ) is a Roman goddess of the hunt, the moon, and nature, associated with wild animals and woodland. She is equated with the Greek goddess Artemis, who absorbed much of Artemis' mythology early in Roman history, including a birth on the island of Delos to parents Jupiter and Latona, and a twin brother, Apollo, though she had an independent origin in Italy.\n\nDiana was known as the virgin goddess of childbirth and women. She was one of the three maiden goddesses, along with Minerva and Vesta, who swore never to marry. Oak groves and deer were especially sacred to her. Diana made up a triad with two other Roman deities; Egeria the water nymph, her servant and assistant midwife; and Virbius, the woodland god.\n\nDiana is revered in modern Neopagan religions including Roman Neopaganism, Stregheria, and Wicca. From the medieval to the modern period, as folklore attached to her developed and was eventually adapted into neopagan religions, the mythology surrounding Diana grew to include a consort (Lucifer) and daughter (Aradia), figures sometimes recognized by modern traditions. In the ancient, medieval, and modern periods, Diana has been considered a triple deity, merged with a goddess of the moon (Luna/Selene) and the underworld (usually Hecate).\n\nDiana (pronounced with long 'ī' and 'ā') is an adjectival form developed from an ancient *\"divios\", corresponding to later 'divus', 'dius', as in Dius Fidius, Dea Dia and in the neuter form \"dium\" meaning the sky.\nIt is derived from Proto-Indo-European \"*d(e)y(e)w\", meaning \"bright sky\" or \"daylight\"; the same word is also the root behind the name of the Aryan Vedic sky god Dyaus, as well as the Latin words deus (god), \"dies\" (day, daylight), and \"diurnal\" (daytime).\n\nOn the Tablets of Pylos a theonym διϝια (\"diwia\") is supposed as referring to a deity precursor of Artemis. Modern scholars mostly accept the identification.\n\nThe ancient Latin writers Varro and Cicero considered the etymology of Dīāna as allied to that of \"dies\" and connected to the shine of the Moon.\n\nThe persona of Diana is complex, and contains a number of archaic features. Diana was originally considered to be a goddess of the wilderness and of the hunt, a central sport in both Roman and Greek culture. Early Roman inscriptions to Diana celebrated her primarily as a huntress and patron of hunters. Later, in the Hellenistic period, Diana came to be equally or more revered as a goddess not of the wild woodland but of the \"tame\" countryside, or \"villa rustica\", the idealization of which was common in Greek thought and poetry. This dual role as goddess of both civilization and the wild, and therefore the civilized countryside, first applied to the Greek goddess Artemis (for example, in the 3rd century BCE poetry of Anacreon). By the 3rd century CE, after Greek influence had a profound impact on Roman religion, Diana had been almost fully combined with Artemis and took on many of her attributes, both in her spiritual domains and in the description of her appearance. The Roman poet Nemesianus wrote a typical description of Diana: She carried a bow and a quiver full of golden arrows, wore a golden cloak, purple half-boots, and a belt with a jeweled buckle to hold her tunic together, and wore her hair gathered in a ribbon.\n\nDiana was often considered an aspect of a triple goddess, known as \"Diana triformis\": Diana, Luna, and Hecate. According to historian C.M. Green, \"these were neither different goddesses nor an amalgamation of different goddesses. They were Diana...Diana as huntress, Diana as the moon, Diana of the underworld.\" At her sacred grove on the shores of Lake Nemi, Diana was venerated as a triple goddess beginning in the late 6th century BCE. \n\nAndreas Alföldi interpreted an image on a late Republican coin as the Latin Diana \"conceived as a threefold unity of the divine huntress, the Moon goddess and the goddess of the nether world, Hekate\". This coin, minted by P. Accoleius Lariscolus in 43 BCE, has been acknowledged as representing an archaic statue of Diana Nemorensis. It represents Artemis with the bow at one extremity, Luna-Selene with flowers at the other and a central deity not immediately identifiable, all united by a horizontal bar. The iconographical analysis allows the dating of this image to the 6th century at which time there are Etruscan models. The coin shows that the triple goddess cult image still stood in the \"lucus\" of Nemi in 43 BCE. Lake Nemi was called \"Triviae lacus\" by Virgil (\"Aeneid\" 7.516), while Horace called Diana \"montium custos nemoremque virgo\" (\"keeper of the mountains and virgin of Nemi\") and \"diva triformis\" (\"three-form goddess\").\n\nTwo heads found in the sanctuary and the Roman theatre at Nemi, which have a hollow on their back, lend support to this interpretation of an archaic triple Diana. \n\nThe earliest epithet of Diana was \"Trivia\", and she was addressed with that title by Virgil, Catullus, and many others. \"Trivia\" comes from the Latin \"trivium\", \"triple way\", and refers to Diana's guardianship over roadways, particularly Y-junctions or three-way crossroads. This role carried a somewhat dark and dangerous connotation, as it metaphorically pointed the way to the underworld. In the 1st-century CE play \"Medea\", Seneca's title character calls on Trivia to cast a spell, evokes the triple goddess of Diana, Selene, and Hecate, and specifies that she requires the powers of the latter. The symbol of the crossroads is relevant to several aspects of Diana's domain. It can symbolize the paths hunters may encounter in the forest, lit only by the full moon; this symbolizes making choices \"in the dark\" without the light of guidance.\n\nDiana's role as a goddess of the underworld, or at least of ushering people between life and death, caused her early on to be conflated with Hecate (and occasionally also with Proserpina). However, her role as an underworld goddess appears to pre-date strong Greek influence (though the early Greek colony of Cumae had a cult of Hekate and certainly had contacts with the Latins). A theater in her sanctuary at Lake Nemi included a pit and tunnel that would have allowed actors to easily descend on one side of the stage and ascend on the other, indicating a connection between the phases of the moon and a descent by the moon goddess into the underworld. It is likely that her underworld aspect in her original Latin worship did not have a distinct name, like Luna was for her moon aspect. This is due to a seeming reluctance or taboo by the early Latins to name underworld deities, and the fact that they believed the underworld to be silent, precluding naming. Hekate, a Greek goddess also associated with the boundary between the earth and the underworld, became attached to Diana as a name for her underworld aspect following Greek influence.\n\nDiana was often considered to be a goddess associated with fertility and childbirth, and the protection of women during labor. This probably arose as an extension of her association with the moon, whose cycles were believed to parallel the menstrual cycle, and which was used to track the months during pregnancy. At her shrine in Aricia, worshipers left votive terracotta offerings were left for the goddess in the shapes of babies and wombs, and the temple there also offered care of pups and pregnant dogs. This care of infants also extended to the training of both young people and dogs, especially for hunting. In her role as a protector of childbirth, Diana was called \"Diana Lucina\" or even \"Juno Lucina\", because her domain overlapped with that of the goddess Juno. The title of Juno may also have had an independent origin as it applied to Diana, with the literal meaning of \"helper\" - Diana as \"Juno Lucina\" would be the \"helper of childbirth\".\n\nAccording to a theory proposed by Georges Dumézil, Diana falls into a particular subset of celestial gods, referred to in histories of religion as \"frame gods\". Such gods, while keeping the original features of celestial divinities (i.e. transcendent heavenly power and abstention from direct rule in worldly matters), did not share the fate of other celestial gods in Indoeuropean religions - that of becoming \"dei otiosi\", or gods without practical purpose, since they did retain a particular sort of influence over the world and mankind. The celestial character of Diana is reflected in her connection with inaccessibility, virginity, light, and her preference for dwelling on high mountains and in sacred woods. Diana, therefore, reflects the heavenly world in its sovereignty, supremacy, impassibility, and indifference towards such secular matters as the fates of mortals and states. At the same time, however, she is seen as active in ensuring the succession of kings and in the preservation of humankind through the protection of childbirth. These functions are apparent in the traditional institutions and cults related to the goddess:\n\nAccording to Dumezil, the forerunner of all \"frame gods\" is an Indian epic hero who was the image (avatar) of the Vedic god Dyaus. Having renounced the world, in his roles of father and king, he attained the status of an immortal being while retaining the duty of ensuring that his dynasty is preserved and that there is always a new king for each generation. The Scandinavian god Heimdallr performs an analogous function: he is born first and will die last. He too gives origin to kingship and the first king, bestowing on him regal prerogatives.\nDiana, although a female deity, has exactly the same functions, preserving mankind through childbirth and royal succession.\n\nF. H. Pairault, in her essay on Diana, qualified Dumézil's theory as \"impossible to verify\".\n\nDiana was an ancient goddess common to all Latin tribes. Therefore, many sanctuaries were dedicated to her in the lands inhabited by Latins. Her primary sanctuary was a woodland grove overlooking Lake Nemi, a body of water also known as \"Diana's Mirror\", where she was worshiped as Diana Nemorensis, or \"Diana of the Wood\". In Rome, the cult of Diana may have been almost as old as the city itself. Varro mentions her in the list of deities to whom king Titus Tatius promised to build a shrine. His list included Luna and Diana Lucina as separate entities. Another testimony to the antiquity of her cult is to be found in the \"lex regia\" of King Tullus Hostilius that condemns those guilty of incest to the \"sacratio\" to Diana. She had a temple in Rome on the Aventine Hill, according to tradition dedicated by king Servius Tullius. Its location is remarkable as the Aventine is situated outside the pomerium, i.e. original territory of the city, in order to comply with the tradition that Diana was a goddess common to all Latins and not exclusively of the Romans. Being placed on the Aventine, and thus outside the \"pomerium\", meant that Diana's cult essentially remained a \"foreign\" one, like that of Bacchus; she was never officially \"transferred\" to Rome as Juno was after the sack of Veii.\n\nOther known sanctuaries and temples to Diana include Colle di Corne near Tusculum, where she is referred to with the archaic Latin name of \"deva Cornisca\" and where existed a collegium of worshippers; at Évora, Portugal; Mount Algidus, also near Tusculum; at Lavinium; and at Tibur (Tivoli), where she is referred to as \"Diana Opifera Nemorensis\". Diana was also worshiped at a sacred wood mentioned by Livy - \"ad compitum Anagninum\" (near Anagni), and on Mount Tifata in Campania.\n\nDiana's worship may have originated at an open-air sanctuary overlooking Lake Nemi in the Alban Hills near Aricia, where she was worshiped as Diana Nemorensis, or (\"Diana of the Sylvan Glade\"). According to legendary accounts, the sanctuary was founded by Orestes and Iphigenia after they fled from the Tauri. In this tradition, the Nemi sanctuary was supposedly built on the pattern of an earlier Temple of Artemis Tauropolos, and the first cult statue at Nemi was said to have been stolen from the Tauri and brought to Nemi by Orestes. Historical evidence suggests that worship of Diana at Nemi flourished from at least the 6th century BCE until the 2nd century CE. Her cult there was first attested in Latin literature by Cato the Elder, in a surviving quote by the late grammarian Priscian. By the 4th century BCE, the simple shrine at Nemi had been joined by a temple complex. The sanctuary served an important political role as it was held in common by the Latin League.\n\nLegend has it that Diana's high priest at Nemi, known as the Rex Nemorensis, was always an escaped slave who could only obtain the position by defeating his predecessor in a fight to the death. Sir James George Frazer wrote of this sacred grove in \"The Golden Bough\", basing his interpretation on brief remarks in Strabo (5.3.12), Pausanias (2,27.24) and Servius' commentary on the \"Aeneid\" (6.136). Legend tells of a tree that stood in the center of the grove and was heavily guarded. No one was allowed to break off its limbs, with the exception of a runaway slave, who was allowed, if he could, to break off one of the boughs. He was then in turn granted the privilege to engage the Rex Nemorensis, the current king and priest of Diana, in a fight to the death. If the slave prevailed, he became the next king for as long as he could defeat his challengers. However, Joseph Fontenrose criticised Frazer's assumption that a rite of this sort actually occurred at the sanctuary. \n\nA festival to Diana, the Nemoralia, was held yearly at Nemi on the Ides of August (August 13-15). Worshipers traveled to Nemi carrying torches and garlands, and once at the lake, they left pieces of thread tied to fences and tablets inscribed with prayers. Diana's festival eventually became widely celebrated throughout Italy, which was unusual given the provincial nature of Diana's cult. The poet Statius wrote of the festival:\n\nStatius describes the triple nature of the goddess by invoking heavenly (the stars), earthly (the grove itself) and underworld (Hecate) imagery. He also suggests by the garlanding of the dogs and polishing of the spears that no hunting was allowed during the festival.\n\nRome hoped to unify into and control the Latin tribes around Nemi, so Diana's worship was imported to Rome as a show of political solidarity. Diana soon afterwards became Hellenized, and combined with the Greek goddess Artemis, \"a process which culminated with the appearance of Diana beside Apollo [the brother of Artemis] in the first \"lectisternium\" at Rome\" in 399 BCE. The process of identification between the two goddesses probably began when artists who were commissioned to create new cult statues for Diana's temples outside Nemi were struck by the similar attributes between Diana and the more familiar Artemis, and sculpted Diana in a manner inspired by previous depictions of Artemis. Sibyllene influence and trade with Massilia, where similar cult statues of Artemis existed, would have completed the process. \n\nAccording to Françoise Hélène Pairault's study, historical and archaeological evidence point to the fact that the characteristics given to both Diana of the Aventine Hill and Diana Nemorensis were the product of the direct or indirect influence of the cult of Artemis, which was spread by the Phoceans among the Greek towns of Campania Cuma and Capua, who in turn had passed it over to the Etruscans and the Latins by the 6th and 5th centuries BCE.\n\nEvidence suggests that a confrontation occurred between two groups of Etruscans who fought for supremacy, those from Tarquinia, Vulci and Caere (allied with the Greeks of Capua) and those of Clusium. This is reflected in the legend of the coming of Orestes to Nemi and of the inhumation of his bones in the Roman Forum near the temple of Saturn. The cult introduced by Orestes at Nemi is apparently that of the Artemis Tauropolos. The literary amplification reveals a confused religious background: different Artemis were conflated under the epithet. As far as Nemi's Diana is concerned there are two different versions, by Strabo and Servius Honoratus. Strabo's version looks to be the most authoritative as he had access to first-hand primary sources on the sanctuaries of Artemis, i.e. the priest of Artemis Artemidoros of Ephesus. The meaning of \"Tauropolos\" denotes an Asiatic goddess with lunar attributes, lady of the herds. The only possible \"interpretatio graeca\" of high antiquity concerning \"Diana Nemorensis\" could have been the one based on this ancient aspect of a deity of light, master of wildlife. \"Tauropolos\" is an ancient epithet attached to Artemis, Hecate, and even Athena. According to the legend Orestes founded Nemi together with Iphigenia. At Cuma the Sybil is the priestess of both Phoibos and Trivia. Hesiod and Stesichorus tell the story according to which after her death Iphigenia was divinised under the name of Hecate, fact which would support the assumption that Artemis Tauropolos had a real ancient alliance with the heroine, who was her priestess in Taurid and her human paragon. This religious complex is in turn supported by the triple statue of Artemis-Hecate.\n\nIn Rome, Diana was regarded with great reverence and was a patroness of lower-class citizens, called plebeians, as well as slaves, who could receive asylum in her temples. Georg Wissowa proposed that this might be because the first slaves of the Romans were Latins of the neighboring tribes. However, the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus had the same custom of the asylum.\n\nWorship of Diana probably spread into the city of Rome beginning around 550 BCE, during her Hellenization and combination with the Greek goddess Artemis. Diana was first worshiped along with her brother and mother, Apollo and Latona, in their temple in the Campus Martius, and later in the Temple of Apollo Palatinus.\n\nThe first major temple dedicated primarily to Diana in the vicinity of Rome was the Temple of Diana Aventina (Diana of the Aventine Hill). According to the Roman historian Livy, the construction of this temple began in the 6th century BCE and was inspired by stories of the massive Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, which was said to have been built through the combined efforts of all the cities of Asia Minor. Legend has it that Servius Tullius was impressed with this act of massive political and economic cooperation, and convinced the cities of the Latin League to work with the Romans to build their own temple to the goddess. However, there is no compelling evidence for such an early construction of the temple, and it is more likely that it was built in the 3rd century BCE, following the influence of the temple at Nemi, and probably about the same time the first temples to Vertumnus (who was associated with Diana) were built in Rome (264 BCE). The misconception that the Aventine Temple was inspired by the Ephesian Temple might originate in the fact that the cult images and statues used at the former were based heavily on those found in the latter. Whatever its initial construction date, records show that the Avantine Temple was rebuilt by Lucius Cornificius in 32 BCE. If it was still in use by the 4th century CE, the Aventine temple would have been permanently closed during the persecution of pagans in the late Roman Empire. Today, a short street named the \"Via del Tempio di Diana\" and an associated plaza, \"Piazza del Tempio di Diana\", commemorates the site of the temple. Part of its wall is located within one of the halls of the Apuleius restaurant.\n\nLater temple dedications often were based on the model for ritual formulas and regulations of the Temple of Diana. Roman politicians built several minor temples to Diana elsewhere in Rome to secure public support. One of these was built in the Campus Martius in 187 BCE; no Imperial period records of this temple have been found, and it is possible it was one of the temples demolished around 55 BCE in order to build a theater. Diana also had a public temple on the Quirinal Hill, the sanctuary of Diana Planciana. It was dedicated by Plancius in 55 BCE, though it is unclear which Plancius.\n\nIn their worship of Artemis, Greeks filled their temples with sculptures of the goddess created by well-known sculptors, and many were adapted for use in the worship of Diana by the Romans, beginning around the 2nd century BCE (the beginning of a period of strong Hellenistic influence on Roman religion). The earliest depictions of the Artemis of Ephesus are found on Ephesian coins from this period. By the Imperial period, small marble statues of the Ephesian Artemis were being produced in the Western region of the Mediterranean and were often bought by Roman patrons. The Romans obtained a large copy of an Ephesian Artemis statue for their temple on the Aventine Hill. Diana was usually depicted for educated Romans in her Greek guise. If she was shown accompanied by a deer, as in the \"Diana of Versailles\", this is because Diana was the patroness of hunting. The deer may also offer a covert reference to the myth of Acteon (or Actaeon), who saw her bathing naked. Diana transformed Acteon into a stag and set his own hunting dogs to kill him.\n\nIn Campania, Diana had a major temple at Mount Tifata, near Capua. She was worshiped there as \"Diana Tifatina\". This was one of the oldest sanctuaries in Campania. As a rural sanctuary, it included lands and estates that would have been worked by slaves following the Roman conquest of Campania, and records show that expansion and renovation projects at her temple were funded in part by other conquests by Roman military campaigns. The modern Christian church of Sant'Angelo in Formis was built on the ruins of the Tifata temple.\n\nIn the Roman provinces, Diana was widely worshiped alongside local deities. Over 100 inscriptions to Diana have been cataloged in the provinces, mainly from Gaul, Upper Germania, and Britannia. Diana was commonly invoked alongside another forest god, Silvanus, as well as other \"mountain gods\". In the provinces, she was occasionally conflated with local goddesses such as Abnoba, and was given high status, with \"Augusta\" and \"regina\" (\"queen\") being common epithets.\n\nDiana was not only regarded as a goddess of the wilderness and the hunt, but was often worshiped as a patroness of families. She served a similar function to the hearth goddess Vesta, and was sometimes considered to be a member of the Penates, the deities most often invoked in household rituals. In this role, she was often given a name reflecting the tribe of family who worshiped her and asked for her protection. For example, in what is now Wiesbaden, Diana was worshiped as \"Diana Mattiaca\" by the Mattiaci tribe. Other family-derived named attested in the ancient literature include \"Diana Cariciana\", \"Diana Valeriana\", and \"Diana Plancia\". As a house goddess, Diana often became reduced in stature compared to her official worship by the Roman state religion. In personal or family worship, Diana was brought to the level of other household spirits, and was believed to have a vested interest in the prosperity of the household and the continuation of the family. The Roman poet Horace regarded Diana as a household goddess in his \"Odes\", and had an altar dedicated to her in his villa where household worship could be conducted. In his poetry, Horace deliberately contrasted the kinds of grand, elevated hymns to Diana on behalf of the entire Roman state, the kind of worship that would have been typical at her Aventine temple, with a more personal form of devotion.\n\nImages of Diana and her associated myths have been found on sarcophagi of wealthy Romans. They often included scenes depicting sacrifices to the goddess, and on at least one example, the deceased man is shown joining Diana's hunt.\n\nDiana was initially a hunting goddess and goddess of the local woodland at Nemi, but as her worship spread, she acquired attributes of other similar goddesses. As she became conflated with Artemis, she became a moon goddess, supplanting the earlier Titan goddess Luna. She also became the goddess of childbirth and ruled over the countryside. Catullus wrote a poem to Diana in which she has more than one alias: Latonia, Lucina, Juno, Trivia, Luna.\n\nAlong with Mars, Diana was often venerated at games held in Roman amphitheaters, and some inscriptions from the Danubian provinces show that she was conflated with Nemesis in this role, as \"Diana Nemesis\".\n\nOutside of Italy, Diana had important centers of worship where she was syncretised with similar local deities in Gaul, Upper Germania, and Britannia. Diana was particularly important in the region in and around the Black Forest, where she was conflated with the local goddess Abnoba and worshiped as \"Diana Abnoba\".\n\nSome late antique sources went even further, syncretizing many local \"great goddesses\" into a single \"Queen of Heaven\". The Platonist philosopher Apuleius, writing in the late 2nd century, depicted the goddess declaring:\nLater poets and historians looked to Diana's identity as a triple goddess to merge her with triads heavenly, earthly, and underworld (cthonic) goddesses. Maurus Servius Honoratus said that the same goddess was called Luna in heaven, Diana on earth, and Proserpina in hell. \nMichael Drayton praises the Triple Diana in poem \"The Man in the Moone\" (1606): \"So these great three most powerful of the rest, Phoebe, Diana, Hecate, do tell. Her sovereignty in Heaven, in Earth and Hell\".\n\nUnlike the Greek gods, Roman gods were, originally, considered to be numena: divine powers of presence and will that did not necessarily have physical form. At the time Rome was founded, Diana and the other major Roman gods probably did not have much mythology per se, or any depictions in human form. The idea of gods as having anthropomorphic qualities and human-like personalities and actions developed later, under the influence of Greek and Etruscan religion.\n\nBy the 3rd century BCE, Diana is found listed among the twelve major gods of the Roman pantheon by the poet Ennius. Though the Capitoline Triad were the primary state gods of Rome, early Roman myth did not assign a strict hierarchy to the gods the way Greek mythology did, though the Greek hierarchy would eventually be adopted by Roman religion as well.\n\nOnce Greek influence had caused Diana to be considered identical to the Greek goddess Artemis, Diana acquired Artemis' physical description, attributes, and variants of her myths as well. Like Artemis, Diana is usually depicted in art wearing a short skirt, with a hunting bow and quiver, and often accompanied by hunting dogs. A 1st-century BCE Roman coin (see above) depicted her with a unique, short hairstyle, and in triple form, with one form holding a bow and another holding a poppy.\n\nDiana's mythology incorporated stories which were variants of earlier stories about Artemis. Possibly the most well-known of these is the myth of Actaeon. In Ovid's version of this myth, part of his poem \"Metamorphoses\", he tells of a pool or grotto hidden in the wooded valley of Gargaphie. There, Diana, the goddess of the woods, would bathe and rest after a hunt. Actaeon, a young hunter, stumbled across the grotto and accidentally witnessed the goddess bathing without invitation. In retaliation, Diana splashed him with water from the pool, cursing him, and he transformed into a deer. His own hunting dogs caught his scent, and tore him apart.\n\nOvid's version of the myth of Actaeon differs from most earlier sources. Unlike earlier myths about Artemis, Actaeon is killed for an innocent mistake, glimpsing Diana bathing. An earlier variant of this myth, known as the Bath of Pallas, had the hunter intentionally spy on the bathing goddess Pallas (Athena), and earlier versions of the myth involving Artemis did not involve the bath at all.\n\nDiana is the only pagan goddess mentioned by name in the New Testament (Acts 19). As a result, she became associated with many folk beliefs involving goddess-like supernatural figures that Catholic clergy wished to demonize. In the Middle Ages, legends of night-time processions of spirits led by a female figure are recorded in the church records of northern Italy, western Germany, and southern France. The spirits were said to enter houses and consume food which then miraculously re-appeared. They would sing and dance, and dispense advise regarding healing herbs and the whereabouts of lost objects. If the house was in good order, they would bring fertility and plenty. If not, they would bring curses to the family. Some women reported participating in these processions while their bodies still lay in bed. Historian Carlo Ginzburg has referred to these legendary spirit gatherings as \"The Society of Diana\".\n\nLocal clergy complained that women believed they were following Diana or Herodias, riding out on appointed nights to join the processions or carry out instructions from the goddess. The earliest reports of these legends appear in the writings of Regino of Prüm in the year 899, followed by many additional reports and variants of the legend in documents by Ratherius and others. By 1310, the names of the goddess figures attached to the legend were sometimes combined as Herodiana. It is likely that the clergy of this time used the identification of the procession's leader as Diana or Herodias in order to fit an older folk belief into a Biblical framework, as both are featured and demonized in the New Testament. Herodias was often conflated with her daughter Salame in legend, which also holds that, upon being presented with the severed head of John the Baptist, she was blown into the air by wind from the saint's mouth, through which she continued to wander for eternity. Diana was often conflated with Hecate, a goddess associated with the spirits of the dead and with witchcraft. These associations, and the fact that both figures are attested to in the Bible, made them a natural fit for the leader of the ghostly procession. Clergy used this identification to assert that the spirits were evil, and that the women who followed them were inspired by demons. As was typical of this time period, though pagan beliefs and practices were near totally eliminated from Europe, the clergy and other authorities still treated paganism as a real threat, in part thanks to biblical influence; much of the Bible had been written when various forms of paganism were still active if not dominant, so medieval clergy applied the same kinds of warnings and admonitions for any non-standard folk beliefs and practices they encountered. Based on analysis of church documents and parishioner confessions, it is likely that the spirit identified by the Church as Diana or Herodias was called by names of pre-Christian figures like Holda (a Germanic goddess of the winter solstice), or with names referencing her bringing of prosperity, like the Latin Abundia (meaning \"plenty\"), Satia (meaning \"full\" or \"plentiful\") and the Italian Richella (meaning \"rich\"). Some of the local titles for her, such as \"bonae res\" (meaning \"good things\"), are similar to late classical titles for Hecate, like \"bona dea\". This might indicate a cultural mixture of medieval folk ideas with holdovers from earlier pagan belief systems. Whatever her true origin, by the 13th century, the leader of the legendary spirit procession had come to be firmly identified with Diana and Herodias through the influence of the Church.\n\nIn his wide-ranging, comparative study of mythology and religion, \"The Golden Bough\", anthropologist James George Frazer drew on various lines of evidence to re-interpret the legendary rituals associated with Diana at Nemi, particularly that of the \"rex Nemorensis\". Frazer developed his ideas in relation to J. M. W. Turner's painting, also titled \"The Golden Bough\", depicting a dream-like vision of the woodland lake of Nemi. According to Frazer, the \"rex Nemorensis\" or king at Nemi was the incarnation of a dying and reviving god, a solar deity who participated in a mystical marriage to a goddess. He died at the harvest and was reincarnated in the spring. Frazer claimed that this motif of death and rebirth is central to nearly all of the world's religions and mythologies. In Frazer's theory, Diana functioned as a goddess of fertility and childbirth, who, assisted by the sacred king, ritually returned life to the land in spring. The king in this scheme served not only as a high priest but as a god of the grove. Frazer identifies this figure with Virbius, of which little is known, but also with Jupiter via an association with sacred oak trees. Frazer argued furthemore that Jupiter and Juno were simply duplicate names of Jana and Janus; that is, Diana and Dianus, all of whom had identical functions and origins.\n\nFrazer's speculatively reconstructed folklore of Diana's origins and the nature of her cult at Nemi were not well received even by his contemporaries. Godfrey Lienhardt noted that even during Frazer's lifetime, other anthropologists had \"for the most part distanced themselves from his theories and opinions\", and that the lasting influence of \"The Golden Bough\" and Frazer's wider body of work \"has been in the literary rather than the academic world.\" Robert Ackerman wrote that, for anthropologists, Frazer is \"an embarrassment\" for being \"the most famous of them all\" and that most distance themselves from his work. While \"The Golden Bough\" achieved wide \"popular appeal\" and exerted a \"disproportionate\" influence \"on so many [20th century] creative writers\", Frazer's ideas played \"a much smaller part\" in the history of academic social anthropology.\n\nFolk legends like the one above, linking Diana to forbidden gatherings of women with spirits, may have influenced later works of folklore like Charles Godfrey Leland's \"Aradia, or the Gospel of the Witches\", which prominently featured Diana at the center of an Italian witch-cult. In Leland's interpretation of supposed Italian folk witchcraft, Diana is considered Queen of the Witches. In this belief system, Diana is said to have created the world of her own being having in herself the seeds of all creation yet to come. It was said that out of herself she divided the darkness and the light, keeping for herself the darkness of creation and creating her brother Lucifer. Diana was believed to have loved and ruled with her brother, and with him bore a daughter, Aradia (a name likely derived from Herodias), who leads and teaches the witches on earth.\n\nLeland's claim that \"Aradia\" represented an authentic tradition from an underground witch-cult secretly having worshiped Diana since ancient times has been dismissed by most scholars of folklore, religion, and medieval history. After the 1921 publication of Margaret Murray's \"The Witch-cult in Western Europe\", which hypothesized that the European witch trials were actually a persecution of a pagan religious survival, American sensationalist author Theda Kenyon's 1929 book \"Witches Still Live\" connected Murray's thesis with the witchcraft religion in \"Aradia\". Arguments against Murray's thesis would eventually include arguments against Leland. Witchcraft scholar Jeffrey Russell devoted some of his 1980 book \"A History of Witchcraft: Sorcerers, Heretics and Pagans\" to arguing against the claims Leland presented in \"Aradia\". Historian Elliot Rose's \"A Razor for a Goat\" dismissed \"Aradia\" as a collection of incantations unsuccessfully attempting to portray a religion. In his book \"Triumph of the Moon\", historian Ronald Hutton doubted not only of the existence of the religion that \"Aradia\" claimed to represent, and that the traditions Leland presented were unlike anything found in actual medieval literature. but also of the existence of Leland's sources, arguing that it is more likely that Leland created the entire story than that Leland could be so easily \"duped\". Religious scholar Chas S. Clifton took exception to Hutton's position, writing that it amounted to an accusation of \"serious literary fraud\" made by an \"argument from absence\".\n\nBecause Leland's claims about an Italian witch-cult are questionable, the first verifiable worship of Diana in the modern age was probably begun by Wicca. The earliest known practitioners of Neopagan witchcraft were members of a tradition begun by Gerald Gardner. Published versions of the devotional materials used by Gardner's group, dated to 1949, are heavily focused on the worship of Aradia, the daughter of Diana in Leland's folklore. Diana herself was recognized as an aspect of a single \"great goddess\" in the tradition of Apuleius, as described in the Wiccan Charge of the Goddess (itself adapted from Leland's text). Some later Wiccans, such as Scott Cunningham, would replace Aradia with Diana as the central focus of worship.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Victor Henry Anderson founded the Feri Tradition of Neopagan witchcraft, which drew from both Charles Leland's folklore and the Gardnerian tradition. Anderson claimed that he had first been initiated into a witchcraft tradition as a child in 1926, and that he had been told the name of the goddess worshiped by witches was Tana. The name Tana originated in Leland's \"Aradia\", where he claimed it was an old Etruscan name for Diana. The Feri Tradition founded by Anderson continues to recognize Tana/Diana as an aspect of the Star Goddess related to the element of fire, and representing \"the fiery womb that gives birth to and transforms all matter.\" (In \"Aradia\", Diana is also credited as the creatrix of the material world and Queen of Faeries).\n\nA few Wiccan traditions would elevate Diana to a more prominent position of worship, and there are two distinct modern branches of Wicca focused primarily on Diana. The first, founded during the early 1970s in the United States by Morgan McFarland and Mark Roberts, has a feminist theology and only occasionally accepts male participants, and leadership is limited to female priestesses. McFarland Dianic Wiccans base their tradition primarily on the work of Robert Graves and his book \"The White Goddess\", and was inspired by references to the existence of medieval European \"Dianic cults\" in Margaret Murray's book \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\". The second Dianic tradition, founded by Zsuzsanna Budapest in the mid 1970s, is characterized by an exclusive focus on the feminine aspect of the divine, and as a result is exclusively female. This tradition combines elements from British Traditional Wicca, Italian folk-magic based on the work of Charles Leland, feminist values, and healing practices drawn from a variety of different cultures.\n\nA third Neopagan tradition heavily inspired by the worship of Diana through the lens of Italian folklore is Stregheria, founded in the 1980s. It centers around a pair of deities regarded as divine lovers, who are known by several variant names including Diana and Dianus, alternately given as Tana and Tanus or Jana and Janus (the later two deity names were mentioned by James Frazer in \"The Golden Bough\" as later corruptions of Diana and Dianus, which themselves were alternate and possibly older names for Juno and Jupiter). The tradition was founded by author Raven Grimassi, and influenced by Italian folktales he was told by his mother. One such folktale describes the moon being impregnated by her lover the morning star, a parallel Leland's mythology of Diana and her lover Lucifer.\n\nDiana was also a subject of worship in certain Feraferian rites, particularly those surrounding the autumnal equinox, beginning in 1967.\n\nBoth the Romanian words for \"fairy\" \"Zână\" and Sânziană, the Leonese and Portuguese word for \"water nymph\" \"xana\", and the Spanish word for \"shooting target\" and \"morning call\" (\"diana\") seem to come from the name of Diana.\n\nSince the Renaissance, Diana's myths have often been represented in the visual and dramatic arts, including the opera \"L'arbore di Diana\". In the 16th century, Diana's image figured prominently at the châteaus of Fontainebleau, Chenonceau, & at Anet, in deference to Diane de Poitiers, mistress of Henri of France. At Versailles she was incorporated into the Olympian iconography with which Louis XIV, the Apollo-like \"Sun King\" liked to surround himself. Diana is also a character in the 1876 Léo Delibes ballet \"Sylvia\". The plot deals with Sylvia, one of Diana's nymphs and sworn to chastity, and Diana's assault on Sylvia's affections for the shepherd Amyntas.\n\n\n\nDiana has been one of the most popular themes in art. Painters like Titian, Peter Paul Rubens, François Boucher, Nicholas Poussin and made use of her myth as a major theme. Most depictions of Diana in art featured the stories of Diana and Actaeon, or Callisto, or depicted her resting after hunting. Some famous work of arts with a Diana theme are:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5575501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5575501", "title": "Electrojet", "text": "Electrojet\n\nAn electrojet is an electric current which travels around the E region of the Earth's ionosphere. There are two electrojets: above the magnetic equator (the equatorial electrojet), and near the Northern and Southern Polar Circles (the Auroral Electrojets). Electrojets are Hall currents carried primarily by electrons at altitudes from 100 to 150 km. In this region the electron gyro frequency (Larmor frequency) is much greater than the electron-neutral collision frequency. In contrast, the principal E region ions (O2+ and NO+) have gyrofrequencies much lower than the ion-neutral collision frequency.\n\nKristian Birkeland was the first to suggest that polar electric currents (or auroral electrojets) are connected to a system of filaments (now called \"Birkeland currents\") that flow along geomagnetic field lines into and away from the polar region.\n\nThe worldwide solar-driven wind results in the so-called Sq (solar quiet) current system in the E region of the Earth's ionosphere (100–130 km altitude). Resulting from this current is an electrostatic field directed E-W (dawn-dusk) in the equatorial day side of the ionosphere. At the magnetic dip equator, where the geomagnetic field is horizontal, this electric field results in an enhanced eastward current within ± 3 degrees of the magnetic equator, known as the equatorial electrojet.\n\nThe term 'auroral electrojet' is the name given to the large horizontal currents that flow in the D and E regions of the auroral ionosphere. Although horizontal ionospheric currents can be expected to flow at any latitude where horizontal ionospheric electric fields are present, the auroral electrojet currents are remarkable for their strength and persistence. There are two main factors in the production of the electrojet. First of all, the conductivity of the auroral ionosphere is generally larger than that at lower latitudes. Secondly, the horizontal electric field in the auroral ionosphere is also larger than that at lower latitudes. Since the strength of the current is directly proportional to the vector product of the conductivity and the horizontal electric field, the auroral electrojet currents are generally larger compared to those at lower latitudes. \nDuring magnetically quiet periods, the electrojet is generally confined to the auroral oval. However during disturbed periods, the electrojet increases in strength and expands to both higher and lower latitudes. This expansion results from two factors, enhanced particle precipitation and enhanced ionospheric electric fields. \n\n\n1. https://web.archive.org/web/20100705021933/http://www-star.stanford.edu/~vlf/ejet/electrojet.html\n"}
{"id": "54047913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54047913", "title": "Fatih Sultan Mehmet Nature Park", "text": "Fatih Sultan Mehmet Nature Park\n\nFatih Sultan Mehmet Nature Park () is a nature park located in Sarıyer district of Istanbul Province, Turkey. \n\nFatih Sultan Mehmet Nature Park is situated southwest of Sarıyer and southeast of Belgrad Forest. It covers an area of . It was established in 2011 by the Ministry of Environment and Forest. The protected area is named in honor of Ottoman sultan Mehmed the Conqueror (reigned 1444–1446, 1451–1481), who conquered Istanbul in 1453.\n\nThe nature park offers outdoor recreational activities for visitors on daily basis. There are playgrounds for children. Marsh area around the pond has to be avoided for security reasons. Admission is charged for visitors and vehicles.\n\nThe nature park is situated inside the Fatih Forest, which has a dense middle-aged vegetation. The plants are mostly deciduous trees, however there are also coniferous trees. These are Kasnak oak (\"Quercus vulcanica\"), Turkey oak (\"Quercus cerris\"), common hornbeam (\"Carpinus betulus\"), sweet chestnut (\"Castanea sativa\"), oriental plane (\"Platanus orientalis\"), common ash (\"Fraxinus excelsior\"), blackthorn (\"Prunus spinosa\"), black pine (\"Pinus nigra\"), black pine (\"Pinus nigra\"), blackbeery (\"Rubus\"), spineless butcher's-broom (\"Ruscus hypoglossum\"), giant heather (\"Erica arborea\"), Japanese laurel (\"Aucuba japonica\"), laurestine (\"AViburnum tinus\"), Australian laurel (\"Pittosporum tobira\") and European ivy (\"Hedera helix\").\n\nThe nature park is habitat for the wild life observed in the Belgrad Forest due to its location. The animals of the park are the mammals wild boar, grey wolf, jackal, fox, squirrel, mole and the bird species passer, finch, woodpecker and magpie.\n"}
{"id": "15388186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15388186", "title": "Frans Michel Penning", "text": "Frans Michel Penning\n\nFrans Michel Penning (12 September 1894 – 6 December 1953) was a Dutch experimental physicist. He received his PhD from the University of Leiden in 1923, and studied low pressure gas discharges at the Philips Laboratory in Eindhoven, developing new electron tubes during World War II. Many detailed observations of gas ionization were done with colleagues, finding notable results for helium and magnetic fields. He made precise measurements of Townsend discharge coefficients and cathode voltage fall. Penning made important contributions to the advancement of high resolution Mass spectrometry.\n\nPenning was born in west Netherlands in the town of Gorinchem on 12 September 1894. Penning attended the University of Leiden. He studied mathematics and physics as a graduate student under Heike Kamerlingh Onnes. Penning's doctoral work involved measuring thermodynamic properties of various gases at extremely low temperatures. Penning received his PhD on June 25, 1923 with a dissertation entitled 'Metingen over isopyknen van gassen bij lage temperaturen' (Measurements on Isometric Density Lines of Gases at Low Temperatures).\n\nHis father Louwrens Penning, was a popular novelist in the Dutch literary community; most known for romanticizing the Anglo-Boer War. His mother was Adriana Jenneke Machelina Heijmans. Penning married to Margje Derksen in 1921 and they had four children named Lourens, Hendricus, Paul, and Nellie.\n\nIn 1924, Penning was hired as an experimental physicist at the Dutch section of the Phillips research department located in the Strijp district of Eindhoven. Gilles Holst, former assistant to Heike Kamerlingh Onnes, and head of the Philips Natuurkundig Laboratorium (NatLab), tasked Penning with continuing research on gas discharge phenomena to develop new lamps.\nPenning investigated breakdown energy potentials of low pressure inert gas discharges. In 1926, Penning observed that electrons under direct voltage current in low-pressure mercury discharges reach high velocities due to high-frequency oscillations in the gas. This observations challenged Irving Langmuirs observations. Penning also investigated the impact gas density and electrode distance have on the voltage and stability of noble gas mixture discharges by measuring Paschen curves.\nPenning ionization is a form of chemi-ionization, an ionization process involving reactions between neutral atoms or molecules. The Penning effect, as it is often called, describes an ionization chain reaction caused by high energy collision between excited inert gas (i.g. Argon) metastable atoms and trace gas impurities whose ionization potential is less than the stored potential of the meta-stable molecule. These collisions cause the release of electrons; which can interact with other stable noble gas molecules to create more meta-stables, resulting in more ionizing reactions. Penning first reported the effect in 1927. The Penning effect is used in gas-discharge neon lamps and fluorescent lamps, where the lamp is filled with a Penning mixture to improve the electrical characteristics.\n\nPenning invented a type of cold cathode vacuum gauge known as the Penning gauge, which Phillips commercialized.\n\nPenning investigated the effect of magnetic fields on low pressure gas discharges. He determined that the energy current through a discharge tube in a magnetic field could be used to reliably measure the pressure. In his first attempt to measure the energy current, Penning used a triode ion gauge system with a linear electron flight path. This method worked, but was fragile and ineffective at very low pressures. In his second attempt, he equipped his vacuum tube with a ring shaped cathode and two anode plates above and below in a magnetic field. Electrons now traveled a longer flight path out of the ring, between electrodes in a spiral orbit. Increasing the electron flight path allowed for more collisions with meta-stable atoms. This amplified the electron signal, which was sufficient to measure gas pressure. The Penning manometer (vacuum gauge) emerged as a practical application.\n\nThe Penning trap stores charged particles by magnetic and electric fields. It was named after Penning by Hans Georg Dehmelt who built the first trap. Dehmelt got inspiration from the vacuum gauge built by Penning where a current through a discharge tube in a magnetic field is proportional to the pressure. Penning traps are currently used for magnetic measurements and are an active research topic. The introduction of this trap lead to new approaches in high resolution mass spectrometry with mass spectrometers such as the ion cyclotron, resonance spectrometer, or ion trap.\n\nFor a short period during world war two Penning worked at the Phillips Tube Factory developing high frequency electron tubes. Penning with M.J. Druyveseyn, wrote a review of his work on gas discharges that was published in 1940 in the American Review of modern Physics. Due to the German occupation of Holland, Penning didn’t see the final publication until 1946.\nAfter the war he focused on the phenomena of cathode fall during glow-discharge reactions. Penning created a cathode tube with a more stable voltages by removing the oxide layer from the cathode; this allowed for consistent measurement of cathode fall .\nIn the 1950s Penning’s health began to deteriorate. He passed away on December 6, 1953 at Ultrech.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1647192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1647192", "title": "Glowing plate", "text": "Glowing plate\n\nWhen a vacuum tube circuit malfunctions and draws excessive current, the anode (\"plate\") may overheat, sometimes causing a visible red or orange glow. In consumer electronics, this is universally indicative that the tube is experiencing an overload condition, though the reasons for the overload may vary.\n\nSome high-powered vacuum tubes (e.g. large transmitter or induction heating tubes) have silica envelopes and/or graphite or zirconium coated tantalum plates which are intended to operate at glowing temperatures and thus employ \"radiation cooling\". The zirconium plate coating acts as a getter, and proper getter action in these tubes depends on the plate running at high temperatures. Such tubes may develop excessive gas content if underloaded for long periods of time. One trade name for this type of plate coating is Eimac's \"pyrovac\".\n\nIn consumer equipment, it is usually a sign of a shorted or badly mistuned load, or a badly out-of-bias condition. When testing, repairing or restoring vacuum tube-based equipment, it is wise to watch the plates of all the tubes for this condition.\n\nIf the tube is overloaded, not only can the plate warp, causing a short to outer grids or beam-shaping elements, but the emissive layer on the cathode will be consumed very quickly. The equipment's power supply and the tube's load (output transformers, flyback transformers, etc.) are likely to be damaged by a sustained overload condition, so power should be immediately disconnected when a glowing plate is found.\n\nIn modern-day repair and maintenance of early tube-based consumer electronics devices, a glowing plate will be rarely encountered. As a visible symptom of a destructive failure, checking for an overheated tube is essential to ensure the safe and reliable operation of the equipment undergoing maintenance. \n\nMost frequently, a glowing plate overload will be found in rectifiers and output tubes. In particular: \n\nIf any tube presents a glowing plate, the equipment should be shut down immediately to avoid further damage.\n"}
{"id": "10051286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10051286", "title": "Green coke", "text": "Green coke\n\nGreen coke (raw coke) is the primary solid carbonization product from high boiling hydrocarbon fractions obtained at temperatures below 900 K. It contains a fraction of matter that can be released as volatiles during subsequent heat treatment at temperatures up to approximately 1600 K. This mass fraction, called volatile matter, is in the case of green coke between 4 and 15 wt.%, but it depends also on the heating rate.\n\nRaw coke is an equivalent term to green coke although it is now less frequently used. The proportion of volatile matter of green coke depends on temperature and time of cooking, but also on the method for its determination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24795521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24795521", "title": "Handbook to the Birds of Australia", "text": "Handbook to the Birds of Australia\n\nThe Handbook to the Birds of Australia is a two-volume work published in London in 1865 by the author John Gould. It was published in octavo format (250 x 170 mm), containing some 1290 pages, bound in green cloth with gilt lyrebirds on the front covers and with decorated gilt spines. The two volumes are separately paginated and include no illustrations It is essentially a revision and update of the text originally published with Gould’s monumental illustrated folio The Birds of Australia, which was published in seven volumes between 1840 and 1848. The author says in his Preface:\n\n”Nearly twenty years have elapsed since my folio work on the Birds of Australia was completed. During that period many new species have been discovered, and much additional information acquired respecting those comprised therein; consequently it appeared to me that a careful \"résumé\" of the entire subject would be acceptable to the possessors of the former edition, as well as to the many persons in Australia who are now turning their attention to the ornithology of the country in which they are resident. Indeed I have been assured that such a work is greatly needed to enable the explorer during his journeyings, or the student in his quiet home, to identify the species that may come under his notice, and as a means by which the curators of the museums now established in the various colonies may arrange and name the collections intrusted to their charge. With these views the present Handbook has been prepared.”\nIn 1972 Lansdowne Editions published a facsimile reprint of the Handbook, with the two volumes bound in one, including a foreword (“A Note on the Handbook”) by Allan McEvey, Curator of Birds at the National Museum of Victoria, as well as a biographical note on John Gould by John Currey. In his foreword McEvey says:\n\n\"The essential status of the \"Handbook\" emerges from its historical position; it looks back to the beginning of Australian ornithology, summarizing the known, and forward to the great \"Catalogue\" by Sharpe and others, and to the Australian works of Ramsay, Campbell, North and Mathews. From this transitional point it provides the present-day worker with an invaluable link between the early and the recent. Here will be found the familiar quote, (e.g. on the strength of Shrike-tit mandibles), the elusive reference, (e.g. an early note on the possible breaking of Emu’s eggs by the Buzzard), and many an easily over-looked observation (e.g. the remarks on the flight of the Owlet-nightjar). If one sees the text in historical perspective and reads critically (e.g. Gould’s comments on the nesting sites of pardalotes are inadequate) it may generally be said that the \"Handbook\" entry offers the best starting-point for the serious gathering of information on any particular Australian species.\n\n\"But in addition to the extraordinary amount of good observation it records, and to its plentiful snippets of ornithological and, indeed, Australian history, the \"Handbook\" offers pleasing samples of natural history prose of the nineteenth century which, verbose or not, reflect the dignity that the age expected of its science. It is true that Gould broadly speaking, was deaf to the song of Australian birds, but this probably shows the subjectiveness of nationality rather than a lack of appreciative ability. He was an Englishman, attuned to a mellow countryside and a seasonal bird-song, now in an arid land, looking – and listening – for ornithological differences. The Murray Scrub (mallee) was a far cry from Dorset, and 26 Charlotte Street; he heard little that stimulated nostalgic affection; and one does not become an Australian in two years But he was not insensitive and his various comments illustrate both his inevitable limitation and his response to the aesthetic.”\n\n"}
{"id": "42262656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42262656", "title": "Joseph B. Klemp", "text": "Joseph B. Klemp\n\nJoseph Bernard Klemp is an American atmospheric scientist who collaborated in groundbreaking work advancing numerical simulation techniques and uncovering the dynamics of atmospheric convection, including supercell thunderstorms, tornadoes, squall lines, as well as mountain waves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "234908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234908", "title": "Lilliput and Blefuscu", "text": "Lilliput and Blefuscu\n\nLilliput and Blefuscu are two fictional island nations that appear in the first part of the 1726 novel \"Gulliver's Travels\" by Jonathan Swift. The two islands are neighbours in the South Indian Ocean, separated by a channel wide. Both are inhabited by tiny people who are about . Both kingdoms are empires, i.e. realms ruled by a self-styled emperor. The capital of Lilliput is Mildendo. In some pictures, the islands are arranged like an egg, as a reference to their egg-dominated histories and cultures.\n\nSwift gives the location of Lilliput and Blefuscu as Latitude 30°2′S, to the northwest of Van Diemen's Land (Tasmania). Because this area is actually occupied by Australia, and on the basis of other textual evidence, some have concluded that Swift intended to place Lilliput in the Pacific Ocean, to the northeast, not northwest, of Van Diemen's Land. However, as the map (see illustration) indicates, mainland Australia had been barely explored by Europeans at that time.\n\nLilliput is said to extend 5,000 \"blustrugs\", or twelve miles in circumference. Blefuscu is located northeast of Lilliput, across an 800-yard (730 m) channel. The only cities mentioned by Swift are Mildendo, the capital of Lilliput, and Blefuscu, capital of Blefuscu.\n\nA modernised Lilliput is the setting of a 1958 sequel children's novel, \"Castaways in Lilliput\", by Henry Winterfeld. This book provides more geographical detail: other cities in addition to Mildendo include Plips (a major city and cathedral town), Wiggywack (a suburb of Mildendo and seat of the Island Council), Tottenham (on the west coast), and Allenbeck (at the mouth of a river on the west coast).\n\nLilliput is said to be ruled by an Emperor, Golbasto Momarem Evlame Gurdilo Shefin Mully Ully Gue. He is assisted by a first minister (who carries a white staff) and several other officials (who later brings articles of impeachment against Gulliver on grounds of treason): the \"galbet\" or high admiral, Skyresh Bolgolam; the lord high treasurer, Flimnap; the general, Limnoc; the chamberlain, Lalcom; and the grand justiciary, Balmuff. Blefuscu is also ruled by an Emperor, who is not named.\n\nBoth nations follow the teachings of a prophet, Lustrog, as recorded in their scripture, known as the Blundecral (\"which is their Alcoran\", an older term for the Qur'ān of Islam). Sectarian divisions exist in the debate between \"Little-Endians\" and \"Big-Endians\" (see below).\n\nLilliput and Blefuscu were intended as, and understood to be, satirical portraits of the Kingdom of Great Britain and the Kingdom of France, respectively, as they were in the early 18th century. Only the internal politics of Lilliput are described in detail; these are parodies of British politics, in which the great central issues of the day are belittled and reduced to unimportance.\n\nFor instance, the two major political parties of the day were the Whigs and the Tories. The Tories are parodied as the \"Tramecksan\" or \"High-Heels\" (due to their adhesion to the high church party of the Church of England, and their exalted views of royal supremacy), while the Whigs are represented as the \"Slamecksan\" or \"Low-Heels\" (the Whigs inclined toward low church views, and believed in parliamentary supremacy). These issues, generally considered to be of fundamental importance to the constitution of Great Britain, are reduced by Swift to a difference in fashions.\n\nThe Emperor of Lilliput is described as a partisan of the Low-Heels, just as King George I employed only Whigs in his administration; the Emperor's heir is described as having \"one of his heels higher than the other\", which describes the encouragement by the Prince of Wales (the future George II) of the political opposition during his father's life; once he ascended the throne, however, George II was as staunch a favourer of the Whigs as his father had been.\n\nThe novel further describes an intra-Lilliputian quarrel over the practice of breaking eggs. Traditionally, Lilliputians broke boiled eggs on the larger end; a few generations ago, an Emperor of Lilliput, the Present Emperor's great-grandfather, had decreed that all eggs be broken on the smaller end after his son cut himself breaking the egg on the larger end. The differences between Big-Endians (those who broke their eggs at the larger end) and Little-Endians had given rise to \"six rebellions... wherein one Emperor lost his life, and another his crown\". The Lilliputian religion says an egg should be broken on the convenient end, which is now interpreted by the Lilliputians as the smaller end. The Big-Endians gained favour in Blefuscu.\nThe Big-Endian/Little-Endian controversy reflects, in a much simplified form, British quarrels over religion. England had been, less than 200 years previously, a Catholic (Big-Endian) country; but a series of reforms beginning in the 1530s under King Henry VIII (ruled 1509–1547), Edward VI (1547–1553), and Queen Elizabeth I (1558–1603) had converted most of the country to Protestantism (Little-Endianism), in the episcopalian form of the Church of England. At the same time, revolution and reform in Scotland (1560) had also converted that country to Presbyterian Protestantism, which led to fresh difficulties when England and Scotland were united under one ruler, James I (1603–25).\n\nReligiously inspired revolts and rebellions followed, in which, indeed, one king, Charles I (1625–49) lost his life, and his son James II lost his crown and fled to France (1685–1688). Some of these conflicts were between Protestants and Catholics; others were between different branches of Protestantism. Swift does not clearly distinguish between these different kinds of religious strife.\n\nSwift has his Lilliputian informant blame the \"civil commotions\" on the propaganda of the Emperor of Blefuscu, i.e. the King of France; this primarily reflects the encouragement given by King Louis XIV of France to James II in pursuit of his policies to advance the toleration of Catholicism in Great Britain. He adds that \"when (the commotions) were quelled, the (Big-Endian) exiles always fled for refuge to that empire (Blefuscu/France)\". This partially reflects the exile of King Charles II on the Continent (in France, Germany, the Spanish Netherlands, and the Dutch Republic) from 1651 to 1660, but more particularly the exile of the Catholic King James II from 1688–1701. James II was dead by the time Swift wrote \"Gulliver's Travels\", but his heir James Francis Edward Stuart, also Catholic, maintained his pretensions to the British throne from a court in France (primarily at Saint-Germain-en-Laye) until 1717, and both Jameses were regarded as a serious threat to the stability of the British monarchy until the end of the reign of George II. The court of the Pretender attracted those Jacobites, and their Tory sympathizers, whose political activity precluded them staying safely in Great Britain; notable among them was Swift's friend, the Anglican Bishop of Rochester Francis Atterbury, who was exiled to France in 1722.\n\nSwift's Lilliputian claims that the machinations of \"Big-Endian exiles\" at the court of the Emperor of Blefuscu have brought about a continuous war between Lilliput and Blefuscu for \"six and thirty moons\" (Lilliputians calculate time in 'moons', not years; their time-scale, while not one-twelfth the size of normal humans, appears to be somewhat faster, since the emperor was stated to be \"past his prime\" before he was thirty.) This is an allusion to the wars fought under King William III and Queen Anne against France under Louis XIV, the War of the Grand Alliance (1689–97) and the War of the Spanish Succession (1701–13). In both cases, the claims of the exiled House of Stuart were marginal to other causes of war, but were an important propaganda point in Great Britain itself, as both James II and James Francis Edward were accused of allying with foreigners to force Catholicism on the British people.\n\nIn the novel, Gulliver washes up on the shore of Lilliput and is captured by the inhabitants while asleep. He offers his services to the Emperor of Lilliput in his war against Blefuscu, and succeeds in capturing the (one-twelfth sized) Blefuscudian fleet. Despite a triumphant welcome, he soon finds himself at odds with the Emperor of Lilliput, as he declines to conquer the rest of Blefuscu for him and to force the Blefuscudians to adopt Little-Endianism.\n\nGulliver's position reflects the decision of the Tory government to withdraw from the War of the Spanish Succession. Britain's allies considered the important objects of the war to have been met, and that the larger claims which the Whigs claimed were excessive. The withdrawal was seen by the Whigs as a betrayal of British interests. Swift (a Tory) is here engaged in an apology.\n\nGulliver is, after further adventures, condemned as a traitor by the Council of Lilliput, and condemned to be blinded; he escapes his punishment by fleeing to Blefuscu. This condemnation parallels that issued to the chief ministers of the Tory government that had made peace with France, Robert Harley, 1st Earl of Oxford and Mortimer, who was impeached and imprisoned in the Tower of London from 1715 to 1717; and Henry St John, 1st Viscount Bolingbroke, who, after his political fall, received vague threats of capital punishment and fled to France in 1715, where he remained until 1723.\n\nIn chapter 4 of \"Gulliver's Travels\", Gulliver alludes to his plans to publish a treatise on the empire of Lilliput. In 1728, John Arbuthnot wrote \"An account of the state of learning in the empire of Lilliput: Together with the history and character of Bullum the Emperor's Library-Keeper\"; this purported to be transcribed from Gulliver's description. Arbuthnot used this work to satirise Richard Bentley, master of Trinity College, Cambridge but also described the early history of Lilliput and Blefuscu. At one time (Gulliver is told), Blefuscu was a commonwealth and had its own language and an extensive literature. Lilliput, meanwhile, was divided among several petty kingdoms. The first emperor of Blefuscu attacked and subdued Lilliput, but later the Lilliputians won their independence and set up their own emperor.\n\nWinterfeld's sequel children's chapter book \"Castaways in Lilliput\" provides further details of Lilliputian history. The Emperor of Gulliver's time, Mully Ully Gue, is said to have reigned 1657–1746. (This contradicts Swift's account, in which the Emperor is only 28 years old and has reigned about seven years when Gulliver arrives in 1699.) His descendant, Alice, is the reigning Queen in the 1950s when three Australian children visit the island. The monetary system has apparently also been changed, the \"sprug\" of Swift's novel replaced by the \"onze\", equal to ten \"dimelings\" or 100 \"bims\". Technology has kept pace with the outside world, so the Lilliputians have trains, automobiles, helicopters, telephones, and telegraphs.\n\nWinterfeld describes the flag of Lilliput as having blue and white stripes with a golden crown on a red field. These symbols are also painted on the police helicopters.\n\nSwift presents a number of Lilliputian words and phrases, and further states that the official languages of Lilliput and Blefuscu are about as far apart as typical European languages. Arbuthnot explains further that Blefuscu originally had its own language and an extensive literature, but during the period when it occupied Lilliput, the Blefuscudian language was much altered by contact with Lilliputian. Blefuscudian remained an old language of scholarship. In T. H. White's sequel, \"Mistress Masham's Repose\", the protagonist Maria studies the Lilliputian language from a book owned by her professor friend. This is a rare copy of Gulliver's 1735 treatise: \"A General Description of the Empire of Lilliput, from its first Erection, through a long Series of Princes; with a Particular Account of their Wars and Politicks, Laws, Learning, & Religion, their Plants and Animals, their peculiar Manners and Customs, with other Matters very curious and useful, to which is added a Brief Vocabulary of their Language, with its English Correspondencies\". In Winterfeld's sequel, English has become the official language, due to a decision of the Council of the Island in 1751.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25917873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25917873", "title": "List of Attalea species", "text": "List of Attalea species\n\nThis is a list of \"Attalea\" species, a genus in the Arecaceae, the palm family.\n"}
{"id": "3966746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3966746", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on pines", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on pines\n\nPines (\"Pinus\" species) are used as food plants by the caterpillars of a number of Lepidoptera species, including:\n\nSpecies which feed exclusively on \"Pinus\"\n\n\nSpecies which feed on \"Pinus\" and other plants\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5874427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5874427", "title": "List of Oxyopidae species", "text": "List of Oxyopidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Oxyopidae as of Sept. 12, 2013.\n\n\"Hamadruas\" \n\n\"Hamataliwa\" \n\n\"Hostus\" \n\n\"Oxyopes\" \n\n\"Peucetia\" \n\n\"Pseudohostus\" \n\n\"Schaenicoscelis\" \n\n\"Tapinillus\" \n\n\"Tapponia\" \n\n"}
{"id": "6069225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6069225", "title": "List of SSSIs in Ceredigion", "text": "List of SSSIs in Ceredigion\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in the Ceredigion Area of Search (AOS).\n\nSSSIs in the UK are notified using the concept of an Area of Search, an area of between and in size. The Areas of Search were conceived and developed between 1975 and 1979 by the Nature Conservancy Council (NCC), based on regions created by the Local Government Act 1972. Whereas England had its Areas of Search based on 46 counties, those in Wales were based on a combination of the counties and smaller districts. In 1974, Wales was divided into 8 counties, with 37 districts. The NCC created 12 Welsh Areas of Search; they mostly follow county borders, but the larger counties (Dyfed, Powys and Gwynedd) were divided into multiple Areas using district borders. Mid and South Glamorgan were merged into a single AOS, whilst Llanelli district was included in the West Glamorgan AOS.\n\nDue to subsequent local government reorganisation in the UK since 1972, many counties and districts have been divided, merged or renamed. Using the AOS system alone would make it difficult to search for individual SSSI citations via the Countryside Council for Wales (CCW) database without knowing 1972 region divisions. As a result, the CCW groups Welsh SSSIs using the subdivisions of Wales formed in April 1996 by the Local Government (Wales) Act 1994, resulting in 22 principal areas.\n\nCeredigion AOS lies within the county of Ceredigion.\n\nFor SSSIs elsewhere in the UK, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n"}
{"id": "56762621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56762621", "title": "List of bolides in 2017", "text": "List of bolides in 2017\n\nThe following is a list of bolides and fireballs seen on Earth in 2017. These are small asteroids (known as meteoroids) the regularly impact the Earth. Although most are so small that they burn up in the atmosphere before reaching the surface, some larger objects may reach the surface as fragments, known as meteorites.\n\nMeteors with a recorded absolute magnitude are then converted to an asteroidal absolute magnitude under (M = M + 31) and then converted to a diameter assuming that meteoroids brighten by approximate 10 magnitudes when entering the atmosphere. Objects reported only to the American Meteor Society are only listed if observed by at least 10 people, and are cross-referenced with https://fireballs.ndc.nasa.gov if possible, to determine further physical characteristics. The fourth and third to last parameters are calculated from http://convertalot.com/asteroid_impact_calculator.html , assuming a density of 1.5 g/cm^3, an impact angle of 45°, and a velocity of 17 km/s (if not provided). The actual values for both may vary by as much as the value itself, so be aware that these values are only estimates.\n\n"}
{"id": "715027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715027", "title": "List of national parks in the Baltics", "text": "List of national parks in the Baltics\n\nThis is a list of the national parks in the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania.\n\nThere are 5 national parks in Estonia.\n\nThere are 4 national parks in Latvia.\n\nThere are 5 national parks in Lithuania. They were established in 1991 after Lithuania declared independence from the Soviet Union in 1990. Lithuanian SSR National Park established in 1974 was reorganized and renamed Aukštaitija National Park. Now they cover about 2.3 percent of Lithuania's territory.\n\n"}
{"id": "34558087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34558087", "title": "List of national parks of Seychelles", "text": "List of national parks of Seychelles\n\nThere are two terrestrial national parks and six marine national parks in the Seychelles. The parks are administered by Seychelles National Environment Commission (SNEC), which falls under the Department of the Environment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38563724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38563724", "title": "List of nature centers in Colorado", "text": "List of nature centers in Colorado\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of Colorado. \n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20997621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20997621", "title": "List of nocturnal animals", "text": "List of nocturnal animals\n\nThis is a list of nocturnal alligator and groups of animals. Birds are listed separately in the List of nocturnal birds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8962479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8962479", "title": "List of potato diseases", "text": "List of potato diseases\n\nThis is a list of diseases and disorders found in potatoes.\n\n"}
{"id": "8591713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591713", "title": "List of stars in Leo Minor", "text": "List of stars in Leo Minor\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Leo Minor, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "322161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322161", "title": "Lists of rivers", "text": "Lists of rivers\n\nThis is a comprehensive list of lists of rivers, organized primarily by continent and country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "206290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206290", "title": "Mare Nubium", "text": "Mare Nubium\n\nMare Nubium (\"sea of clouds\") is a lunar mare in the Nubium basin on the Moon's near side. The mare is located just to the southeast of Oceanus Procellarum.\n\nThe basin containing Mare Nubium is believed to have been part of the Pre-Nectarian system. The mare material is of the Imbrian and Eratosthenian age. \n\nBullialdus crater, a prominent feature on the west side of the mare, is of Eratosthenian age. Other features within the mare include Pitatus on the southern margin and Guericke bounding the mare to the north. Opelt, Gould, Kies, Nicollet, Wolf, Birt, and Rupes Recta (the Straight Wall) lie within the mare.\n\nLike most of the other maria on the Moon, Mare Nubium was named by Giovanni Riccioli, whose 1651 nomenclature system has become standardized. Previously, William Gilbert had included it among the Continens Meridionalis (\"Southern Continent\") in his map of \"c\".1600, and Michael Van Langren had labelled it the Mare Borbonicum (after the House of Bourbon) in his 1645 map.\n\nThe first released images from the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter in 2009 were of the lunar highlands 200 km south of Mare Nubium.\n\nIn September 2013, Spanish astronomers observed and recorded an impact event when a large rock hit the lunar surface in Mare Nubium\n"}
{"id": "43629129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43629129", "title": "NEQUA or The Problem of the Ages", "text": "NEQUA or The Problem of the Ages\n\nNEQUA or The Problem of the Ages, according to Reginald's Science Fiction & Fantasy Literature 1700–1974, is one of the first feminist science fiction books published in the United States. It was first serialized in the newspaper \"Equity\". Two editions were published in Topeka Kansas in 1900. The title page lists Jack Adams as the author. Jack Adams is a pseudonym.\n\nIn the body of the work it is revealed that Jack Adams is actually a woman (Cassie) dressing in men’s clothing, who has spent several years searching for her betrothed on various ocean voyages. She is so successful in her masquerade as a male that she actually works for the ship captains. The voyage described in Nequa is to the Arctic, where the ship becomes trapped in the ice. After several harrowing adventures the ship is freed and then proceeds to sail north. The Captain of the ship, Rafael Ganoa ( Cassie’s betrothed) is amazed to find that when they reach a certain spot, which should be close to the north pole, the compasses show that the ship is suddenly traveling south.\n\nActually they have sailed into the inside of the earth, where they meet the Altrurians, a society which has developed into a more cooperative society than those on the outside of the earth. Individual members of the Altrurian Society describe how the evolution of Altrurian society took place. These explanations reflect Populist thought of the time with definite feminist proclivities, providing the tone of a political novel.\n\nJack Adams exposes his/her secret and is chastised by her betrothed Captain Ganoe as having broken several conventions that exist among the outer earth society. Jack Adams/Cassie Van Ness now called Nequa (the teacher) takes a manuscript that she has written about this voyage and leaves in one of the new aeroplanes for the outside world to have the manuscript you have been reading, published.\n\nCompilations which have include information about Nequa, have resulted in misunderstandings about the authorship of the book. The article \"New World That Eve Made: Feminist Utopias Written by Nineteenth-Century Women\" authored by Barbara Quissell which appeared in Kenneth Roemers’ \"America as Utopia\" discusses A. O. Grigsby as a woman writer.\n\n\"In Science-Fiction, the early years: A full description of more than 3000 stories\", Everett Franklin Bleiler gives a synopsis and lists the authors as Alcanoan O. Grigsby, a male, and Mary P. Lowe, a female.\n\nA. O. Grigsby (Alconoan O. Grigsby) was a Populist and later a Socialist who was editor of several newspapers from the 1890s through 1900. Mary P. Lowe was an editor of \"The New Woman\" a women’s suffrage paper and co-editor with A. O. Grigsby of \"Equity\", a Populist newspaper, complete editions of which are available on microfilm from the Kansas State Historical Society.\n\nThe first edition of \"NEQUA\" listed A.O. Grigsby and Mary P. Lowe as the copyright holders. There was also an explanation printed in the first edition which credits Dr. T. A. H. Lowe with the original ideas found in \"NEQUA\".\n\nDr. T. A. H. Lowe studied Eclectic Medicine at the Eclectic Medical Institute in Cincinnati. \"NEQUA\" contains many ideas which are similar to other hollow earth books, particularly one titled \"Mizora\". \"Mizora\" first appeared in serialized form in the \"Cincinnati Commercial\", a newspaper, while Dr. Lowe was enrolled at the Eclectic Medical Institute. \nTwo other Eclectic Physicians also wrote subterranean fiction.\n\nJohn Uri Lloyd was a teacher in the Pharmacy Department at the Eclectic Medical Institute in Cincinnati. He wrote \"Etidorhpa\" which had elements of secret Masonic rituals and alchemy woven throughout the book. Cyrus Teed was also an Eclectic Institute physician who preached the existence of a world inside of the earth. He became leader of Koreshanity which built a commune in Florida.\n\nAccording to Worldcat \"NEQUA\" in printed form is only owned by eleven libraries. Out of print for 115 years, interest in its political, social and economic systems have reappeared on the internet.\nA third edition, published in 2015 by Green Snake Press, includes a new introduction and an epilogue, consisting of background material about the persons originally involved in the writing and publishing of \"NEQUA\". The original copyright was held by newspaper editors and publishers who were political organizers using the printed word to further their political cause. \"NEQUA\" was published online in 2017. \n"}
{"id": "51616864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51616864", "title": "Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument", "text": "Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument\n\nThe Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument is a marine national monument of the United States off the coast of New England, on the edge of Georges Bank. It was created by President Barack Obama on September 15, 2016. It is the first U.S. national marine monument in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nPresident Barack Obama designated the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument (NCSMNM) on September 21, 2016, using the Antiquities Act of 1906. The Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument is the first and only Marine National Monument in the Atlantic Ocean. It was created in response to citizens requesting for area in the Northeast Atlantic to be protected, due to its importance as a biodiversity hotspot, habitat for numerous rare and endangered species, and a valuable scientific and historical site.\n\nAccording to President Barack Obama in the Federal Register, the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument is the smallest area feasible to provide necessary management; designating a smaller zone would lead to an inaccurate interpretation and protection of biodiversity within the fragile area. The designation of the Marine National Monument occurred after numerous meetings and deliberations with stakeholders including conservationists, community members, fishermen, and local businesses; administrative officials gathered social, economic, and environmental data to inform the creation of the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument.\n\nResiding at depths of ~4,000 meters, deep sea corals and other foundational species are highly sensitive to anthropogenic disturbances such as bottom trawling and mining extractions. The objective of the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument is to maintain biodiversity for research, while encouraging and providing support to fisheries to become more efficient, resilient, and sustainable. Within three years, following the creation of the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument, NOAA and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service will administer a management plan for the area, adapting to requests and changes. Stakeholders will continue to be engaged throughout the process through meetings with administrators.\n\nFive commercial fishing industries, Massachusetts Lobstermen’s Association, Atlantic Offshore Lobstermen’s Association, Long Island Commercial Fishing Association, Garden State Seafood Association, and Rhode Island Fishermen’s Alliance, took the creation of the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument to court in the beginning of March 2017. They state that President Barack Obama did not have the right to designate the Marine National Monument under the Antiquities Act. In a legal document published on March 29, 2017, it was stated that the fishermen do not want any restrictions on their industries, and argue that the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument is unlawful and harmful to their businesses.\n\nThe final designation of the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument protects 40% of the originally proposed area, after intense deliberation, considering equity to those affected. Areas within the Marine National Monument will remain open to recreational fishing and all military activity. Subsequent to the creation of the Marine National Monument, a 60-day transition period was allowed for all commercial industries, besides the Atlantic Lobster and Deep-Sea Red Crab fisheries, which are permitted to continue fishing in the area for seven years after the creation of the monument. In order to evolve fishing industries into sustainable businesses, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration will provide commercial fisheries with access to updated vessels and equipment, increasing efficiency and minimizing cost. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration will also provide beneficial services to commercial fisheries, such as stock assessments and marine surveys.\nOn 5 October 2018, a judge ruled that the Monument complied with the law.\n\nThe Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument is located within the New England and mid-Atlantic regions, 130 miles southeast of Cape Cod. It comprises a total area of 4,913 square miles, and protects several underwater seamounts (Bear, Mytilus, Physalia, and Retriever Seamounts) and three submarine canyons in the edge of the continental shelf (Oceanographer, Lydonia, and Gilbert).\n\nThe area is home to rare and endangered species, including sperm whales, fin whales, sei whales and Kemp’s ridley sea turtles.\n\nNew England Seamounts\n"}
{"id": "35879820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35879820", "title": "Nu Columbae", "text": "Nu Columbae\n\nThe Bayer designation Nu Columbae (ν Col / ν Columbae) is shared by two stars, in the constellation Columba:\n"}
{"id": "2459254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2459254", "title": "Nuclear energy policy", "text": "Nuclear energy policy\n\nNuclear energy policy is a national and international policy concerning some or all aspects of nuclear energy and the nuclear fuel cycle, such as uranium mining, ore concentration, conversion, enrichment for nuclear fuel, generating electricity by nuclear power, storing and reprocessing spent nuclear fuel, and disposal of radioactive waste.\n\nNuclear energy policies often include the regulation of energy use and standards relating to the nuclear fuel cycle. Other measures include efficiency standards, safety regulations, emission standards, fiscal policies, and legislation on energy trading, transport of nuclear waste and contaminated materials, and their storage. Governments might subsidize nuclear energy and arrange international treaties and trade agreements about the import and export of nuclear technology, electricity, nuclear waste, and uranium.\n\nSince about 2001 the term nuclear renaissance has been used to refer to a possible nuclear power industry revival, but nuclear electricity generation in 2012 was at its lowest level since 1999.\n\nFollowing the March 2011 Fukushima I nuclear accidents, China, Germany, Switzerland, Israel, Malaysia, Thailand, United Kingdom, and the Philippines are reviewing their nuclear power programs. Indonesia and Vietnam still plan to build nuclear power plants. Thirty-one countries operate nuclear power stations, and there are a considerable number of new reactors being built in China, South Korea, India, and Russia. As of June 2011, countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Latvia, Lichtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Israel, Malaysia, and Norway have no nuclear power stations and remain opposed to nuclear power.\n\nSince nuclear energy and nuclear weapons technologies are closely related, military aspirations can act as a factor in energy policy decisions. The fear of nuclear proliferation influences some international nuclear energy policies.\n\nAfter 1986's Chernobyl disaster, public fear of nuclear power led to a virtual halt in reactor construction, and several countries decided to phase out nuclear power altogether. However, increasing energy demand was believed to require new sources of electric power, and rising fossil fuel prices coupled with concerns about greenhouse gas emissions (see Climate change mitigation) have sparked heightened interest in nuclear power and predictions of a nuclear renaissance.\n\nIn 2004, the largest producer of nuclear energy was the United States with 28% of worldwide capacity, followed by France (18%) and Japan (12%). In 2007, 31 countries operated nuclear power plants. In September 2008 the IAEA projected nuclear power to remain at a 12.4% to 14.4% share of the world's electricity production through 2030.\n\nIn 2013, almost two years after Fukushima, according to the IAEA there are 390 operating nuclear generating units throughout the world, more than 10% less than before Fukushima, and exactly the same as in Chernobyl-year 1986. Asia is expected to be the primary growth market for nuclear energy in the foreseeable future, despite continued uncertainty in the energy outlooks for Japan, South Korea, and others in the region. As of 2014, 63% of all reactors under construction globally are in Asia.\n\nNuclear accidents and radioactive waste disposal are major concerns. Other concerns include nuclear proliferation, the high cost of nuclear power plants, and nuclear terrorism.\n\nFor some countries, nuclear power affords energy independence. In the words of the French, \"We have no coal, we have no oil, we have no gas, we have no choice.\" Japan—similarly lacking in indigenous natural resources for power supply—relied on nuclear power for 1/3 of its energy mix prior to the Fukushima nuclear disaster; since March 2011, Japan has sought to offset the loss of nuclear power with increased reliance on imported liquefied natural gas, which has led to the country's first trade deficits in decades. Therefore, the discussion of a future for nuclear energy is intertwined with a discussion of energy security and the use of energy mix, including renewable energy development.\n\nNuclear power has been relatively unaffected by embargoes, and uranium is mined in \"reliable\" countries, including Australia and Canada.\n\nProponents have long made inflated projections of the expected growth of nuclear power, but major accidents and high costs have kept growth much lower. In 1973 and 1974, the International Atomic Energy Agency predicted a worldwide installed nuclear capacity of 3,600 to 5,000 gigawatts by 2000. The IAEA's 1980 projection was for 740 to 1,075 gigawatts of installed capacity by the year 2000. Even after the 1986 Chernobyl disaster, the Nuclear Energy Agency forecasted an installed nuclear capacity of 497 to 646 gigawatts for the year 2000. The actual capacity in 2000 was 356 gigawatts. Moreover, construction costs have often been much higher, and times much longer than projected, failing to meet optimistic projections of “unlimited cheap, clean, and safe electricity.”\n\nSince about 2001 the term nuclear renaissance has been used to refer to a possible nuclear power industry revival, driven by rising fossil fuel prices and new concerns about meeting greenhouse gas emission limits. However, nuclear electricity generation in 2012 was at its lowest level since 1999, and new reactors under construction in Finland and France, which were meant to lead a nuclear renaissance, have been delayed and are running over-budget. China has 32 new reactors under construction, and there are also a considerable number of new reactors being built in South Korea, India, and Russia. At the same time, at least 100 older and smaller reactors will \"most probably be closed over the next 10-15 years\". So the expanding nuclear programs in Asia are balanced by retirements of aging plants and nuclear reactor phase-outs.\n\nIn March 2011 the nuclear emergencies at Japan's Fukushima I Nuclear Power Plant and shutdowns at other nuclear facilities raised questions among some commentators over the future of the renaissance. Platts has reported that \"the crisis at Japan's Fukushima nuclear plants has prompted leading energy-consuming countries to review the safety of their existing reactors and cast doubt on the speed and scale of planned expansions around the world\". In 2011 Siemens exited the nuclear power sector following the Fukushima disaster and subsequent changes to German energy policy, and supported the German government's planned energy transition to renewable energy technologies. China, Germany, Switzerland, Israel, Malaysia, Thailand, United Kingdom, Italy and the Philippines have reviewed their nuclear power programs. Indonesia and Vietnam still plan to build nuclear power plants. Countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Portugal, Israel, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Norway remain opposed to nuclear power. Following the Fukushima I nuclear accidents, the International Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity built by 2035.\n\nThe World Nuclear Association has reported that “nuclear power generation suffered its biggest ever one-year fall through 2012 as the bulk of the Japanese fleet remained offline for a full calendar year”. Data from the International Atomic Energy Agency showed that nuclear power plants globally produced 2346 TWh of electricity in 2012 – seven per cent less than in 2011. The figures illustrate the effects of a full year of 48 Japanese power reactors producing no power during the year. The permanent closure of eight reactor units in Germany was also a factor. Problems at Crystal River, Fort Calhoun and the two San Onofre units in the USA meant they produced no power for the full year, while in Belgium Doel 3 and Tihange 2 were out of action for six months. Compared to 2010, the nuclear industry produced 11% less electricity in 2012.\n\nFollowing the Fukushima nuclear disaster, Germany has permanently shut down eight of its reactors and pledged to close the rest by 2022. The Italians have voted overwhelmingly to keep their country non-nuclear. Switzerland and Spain have banned the construction of new reactors. Japan’s prime minister has called for a dramatic reduction in Japan’s reliance on nuclear power. Taiwan’s president did the same. Mexico has sidelined construction of 10 reactors in favor of developing natural-gas-fired plants. Belgium is considering phasing out its nuclear plants, perhaps as early as 2015.\n\nChina—nuclear power’s largest prospective market—suspended approvals of new reactor construction while conducting a lengthy nuclear-safety review. Neighboring India, another potential nuclear boom market, has encountered effective local opposition, growing national wariness about foreign nuclear reactors, and a nuclear liability controversy that threatens to prevent new reactor imports. There have been mass protests against the French-backed 9900 MW Jaitapur Nuclear Power Project in Maharashtra and the 2000 MW Koodankulam Nuclear Power Plant in Tamil Nadu. The state government of West Bengal state has also refused permission to a proposed 6000 MW facility near the town of Haripur that intended to host six Russian reactors.\n\nThere is little support across the world for building new nuclear reactors, a 2011 poll for the BBC indicates. The global research agency GlobeScan, commissioned by BBC News, polled 23,231 people in 23 countries from July to September 2011, several months after the Fukushima nuclear disaster. In countries with existing nuclear programmes, people are significantly more opposed than they were in 2005, with only the UK and US bucking the trend. Most believe that boosting energy efficiency and renewable energy can meet their needs.\n\nJust 22% agreed that \"nuclear power is relatively safe and an important source of electricity, and we should build more nuclear power plants\". In contrast, 71% thought their country \"could almost entirely replace coal and nuclear energy within 20 years by becoming highly energy-efficient and focusing on generating energy from the Sun and wind\". Globally, 39% want to continue using existing reactors without building new ones, while 30% would like to shut everything down now.\n\nFollowing the March 2011 Fukushima I nuclear accidents, China, Germany, Switzerland, Israel, Malaysia, Thailand, United Kingdom, and the Philippines are reviewing their nuclear power programs. Indonesia and Vietnam still plan to build nuclear power plants. Countries such as Australia, Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Portugal, New Zealand, and Norway remain opposed to nuclear power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34301571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34301571", "title": "Outline of environmentalism", "text": "Outline of environmentalism\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to environmentalism:\n\nEnvironmentalism – broad philosophy, ideology and social movement regarding concerns for environmental conservation and improvement of the health of the environment, particularly as the measure for this health seeks to incorporate the concerns of non-human elements. Environmentalism advocates the preservation, restoration and/or improvement of the natural environment, and may be referred to as a movement to control pollution.\n\nEnvironmentalism can be described as all of the following:\n\n\nEnvironmental movement\n\nThese topics relate to the anthropogenic effects on the natural environment.\n\n\n\n\nTimeline of history of environmentalism\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3025952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3025952", "title": "Pliensbachian", "text": "Pliensbachian\n\nThe Pliensbachian is an age of the geologic timescale and stage in the stratigraphic column. It is part of the Early or Lower Jurassic epoch or series and spans the time between 190.8 ± 1.5 Ma and 182.7 ± 1.5 Ma (million years ago). The Pliensbachian is preceded by the Sinemurian and followed by the Toarcian.\nThe Pliensbachian ended with the extinction event called the Toarcian turnover. During the Pliensbachian, the middle part of the Lias was deposited in Europe. The Pliensbachian is roughly coeval with the Charmouthian regional stage of North America.\n\nThe Pliensbachian takes its name from the hamlet of Pliensbach in the community of Zell unter Aichelberg in the Swabian Alb, some 30 km east of Stuttgart in Germany. The name was introduced into scientific literature by German palaeontologist Albert Oppel in 1858.\n\nThe base of the Pliensbachian is at the first appearances of the ammonite species \"Bifericeras donovani\" and genera \"Apoderoceras\" and \"Gleviceras\". The Wine Haven profile near Robin Hood's Bay (Yorkshire, England) has been appointed as global reference profile for the base (GSSP).\n\nThe top of the Pliensbachian (the base of the Toarcian stage) is at the first appearance of ammonite genus \"Eodactylites\".\n\nThe Pliensbachian contains five ammonite biozones in the boreal domain:\n\nIn the Tethys domain, the Pliensbachian contains six biozones:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4823177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4823177", "title": "Pūluga", "text": "Pūluga\n\nPūluga (or Puluga) is the creator in the religion of the indigenous inhabitants of the Andaman Islands. According to Andaman mythology, Puluga ceased to visit the people when they became remiss of the commands given to them at the creation. Then, without further warning he sent a devastating flood. Only four people survived this flood: two men, Loralola and Poilola, and two women, Kalola and Rimalola. When they landed they found they had lost their fire and all living things had perished. Puluga then recreated the animals and plants but does not seem to have given any further instructions, nor did he return the fire to the survivors.\n"}
{"id": "45640813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45640813", "title": "Schumann–Runge bands", "text": "Schumann–Runge bands\n\nThe Schumann–Runge bands are a set of absorption bands of molecular oxygen that occur at wavelengths between 176 and 192.6 nanometres. The bands are named for Victor Schumann and Carl Runge.\n\n"}
{"id": "8450341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8450341", "title": "Soil nailing", "text": "Soil nailing\n\nSoil nailing is a construction remedial measure to treat unstable natural soil slopes or as a construction technique that allows the safe over-steepening of new or existing soil slopes. The technique involves the insertion of relatively slender reinforcing elements into the slope – often general purpose reinforcing bars (rebar) although proprietary solid or hollow-system bars are also available. Solid bars are usually installed into pre-drilled holes and then grouted into place using a separate grout line, whereas hollow bars may be drilled and grouted simultaneously by the use of a sacrificial drill bit and by pumping grout down the hollow bar as drilling progresses. Kinetic methods of firing relatively short bars into soil slopes have also been developed. Bars installed using drilling techniques are usually fully grouted and installed at a slight downward inclination with bars installed at regularly spaced points across the slope face. A rigid facing (often pneumatically applied concrete, otherwise known as shotcrete) or isolated soil nail head plates may be used at the surface. Alternatively a flexible reinforcing mesh may be held against the soil face beneath the head plates. Rabbit proof wire mesh and environmental erosion control fabrics and may be used in conjunction with flexible mesh facing where environmental conditions dictate.\n\nSoil nail components may also be used to stabilize retaining walls or existing fill slopes (embankments and levees); this is normally undertaken as a remedial measure.\n\nSince its first application using modern techniques in Versailles in 1972, soil nailing is now a well-established technique around the world. One of the first national guideline publications for soil nailing was produced in Japan in 1987. The U.S. Federal Highway Administration issued guideline publications in 1996 and 2003.\n\nFour main points to be considered in determining if soil nailing would be an effective retention technique are as follows. First, the existing ground conditions should be examined. Next, the advantages and disadvantages for a soil nail wall should be assessed for the particular application being considered. Then other systems should be considered for the particular application. Finally, cost of the soil nail wall should be considered. Soil nail walls can be used for a variety of soil types and conditions. The most favorable conditions for soil nailing are as follows: The soil should be able to stand unsupported one to two meters high for a minimum of two days when cut vertical or nearly vertical. Also all soil nails within a cross section should be located above the groundwater table. If the soil nails are not located above the groundwater table, the groundwater should not negatively affect the face of the excavation, the bond between the ground and the soil nail itself. Based upon these favorable conditions for soil nailing stiff to hard fine-grained soils which include stiff to hard clays, clayey silts, silty clays, sandy clays, and sandy silts are preferred soils. Sand and gravels which are dense to very dense soils with some apparent cohesion also work well for soil nailing. Weathered rock is also acceptable as long as the rock is weathered evenly throughout (meaning no weakness planes). Finally, glacial soils work well for soil nailing.\n\nA list of unfavorable or difficult soil conditions for soil nailing can include dry, poorly graded cohesion-less soils, soils with a high groundwater table, soils with cobbles and boulders, soft to very soft fine-grained soils, highly corrosive soils, weathered rock with unfavorable weakness planes, and loess. Other difficult conditions include prolonged exposure to freezing temperatures, a climate that has a repeated freeze-and-thaw cycle, and granular soils that are very loose.\n\nSoil nailing evolved from the New Austrian tunnelling method, which is a system for underground excavations in rock. This method consists of passive steel reinforcement in the rock followed by the application of reinforced shotcrete. This concept of combining passive steel reinforcement and shotcrete has also been applied to the stabilization of rock slopes since the early 1960s.\n\nThe first application of soil nailing was implemented in 1972 for a railroad widening project near Versailles, France. Soil nails were used to stabilize an high slope consisting of sandy soil. This method proved to be more cost-effective, while at the same time cut down the construction time when compared to other conventional support methods. Germany was the next country to investigate soil nailing. From 1975 to 1981 the University of Karlsruhe and the construction company Bauer collaborated to establish a research program. This program conducted full-scale testing of experimental walls with different configurations and developed analysis procedures for use in design. The United States first used soil nailing in 1976 for the support of a deep foundation excavation in dense silty sands. Soil nailing was implemented in the expansion of The Good Samaritan Hospital in Portland, Oregon. This retaining system was produced in approximately half the time at about 85% of the cost of conventional retaining systems.\n\nIn the 1980s, the late Professor Ron Bridle, who served as Britain’s Chief Highway Engineer between 1975 and 1980, conceived a novel way of undertaking the soil nailing process which involved firing the nails from the barrel of a compressed air cannon. Working with what is now Cardiff University, Professor Bridle and his co-inventors, Colin Campbell, Professor Ben Barr (deceased) and Bernard Myles, submitted a patent application in 1989. This method was based on using a compressed air cannon, which could accelerate a 40mm diameter, 6m long steel tube (nail) to speeds up to 400 km/hr in a single shot. The significant advantage of this innovation was that it was typically cheaper and faster than the conventional soil nailing process.\n\nThe ballistic soil nailer apparatus was developed from a declassified British military cannon originally developed for military applications by Ferranti International Plc. Cardiff University and Ferranti entered into a cross-licensing agreement in 1989 to facilitate the commercial development of the ballistic soil nailing technique. Cardiff University, through its Technology Transfer company, University College Cardiff Consultants Limited (UC3) entered into a partnership with a local company, Ryan International Limited to commercialise the technology.\n\nSubsequent commercial activity culminated in UC3 assigning the soil nailing patents to a French multinational, civil engineering company, Terre Armee Internationale (TAI) in May 1996. During this time the ballistic soil nailing technology was used commercially, but when TAI was acquired by another French company, Freyssinet, the ballistic soil nailing patents were reassigned to UC3, by an agreement dated September 2000. In the same year, a UK company, Soil Nailing Limited UK was established by Bernard Myles to use the ballistic soil nailing process commercially and to further develop the technology, which included a collaboration with the Sumitomo Corporation of Japan.\n\nThe ballistic soil nailing process originally conceived by the late Professor Ron Bridle has been used successfully throughout the USA, Canada and New Zealand. Further examples of its use in Cairns, Australia (on a number of road and construction projects) is provided in a paper authored by Andrew McIlveen, Director McIlveen Ford Consultants Pty Ltd.\n\nAfter a preliminary analysis of the site, initial designs of the soil nail wall can be begin. This begins with a selection of limit states and design approaches. The two most common limit states used in soil nail wall design is strength limit and service limit states. The strength limit state is the limit state that addresses potential failure mechanisms or collapse states of the soil nail wall system. The service limit state is the limit state that addresses loss of service function resulting from excessive wall deformation and is defined by restrictions in stress, deformation and facing crack width under regular service conditions. The two most common design approaches for soil nail walls are limit state design and service load design.\n\nInitial design considerations include wall layout (wall height and length), soil nail vertical and horizontal spacing, soil nail pattern on wall face, soil nail inclination, soil nail length and distribution, soil nail material and relevant ground properties. With all these variables in the mind of the design engineer the next step is to use simplified charts to preliminarily evaluate nail length and maximum nail force. Nail length, diameter and spacing typically control external and internal stability of the wall. These parameters can be adjusted during design until all external and internal stability requirements are met. After the initial design is completed, final design progresses where the soil nail wall has to be tested for external and internal failure modes, seismic considerations and aesthetic qualities. Drainage, frost penetration and external loads such as wind and hydrostatic forces also have to be determined and included in the final examination of the design. Soil nail walls are not ideal in locations with highly plastic clay soils. Soils with high plasticity, a high liquid limit and low undrained shear strengths are at risk of long-term deformation (creep).\n\nWith the design complete, construction is the next step. Most soil nail wall construction follows a specific procedure. First a cut is excavated and temporary bracing is put in place if necessary. This is done with conventional earth moving equipment and hydraulic drills. Next, holes for the soil nails are drilled at predetermined locations as specified by the design engineer. The equipment used for this step is dependent on the stability of the material in which the soil nail wall is supporting. Rotary or rotary percussive methods using air flush or dry auger methods can be used with stable ground. For unstable ground, single tube and duplex rotary methods with air and water flush or hollow stem auger methods are used. With the holes drilled, the next step is to install and grout the nails into place. After all nails are inserted, a drainage system is put into place. Synthetic drainage mat is placed vertically between the nail heads, which are extended down to the base of the wall where they are most commonly connected to a footing drain. A layer of shotcrete is applied and bearing plates are installed before a final facing is put in place to complete the soil nail wall. Variations of the steps described above may be necessary to accommodate additional preparation tasks or supplementary activities for specific project conditions.\n\nIn terms of construction, soil nail walls have a decisive advantage over other alternatives. Soil nail walls require a smaller right-of-way than ground anchor walls and have less environmental impact. Installation of soil nail walls is relatively rapid and typically uses less materials and smaller construction equipment than ground anchor walls.\n\nOne great advantage of soil nail walls is their cost-effectiveness over other alternatives. When conventional soil nailing construction procedures are used, soil nail walls are much more economical than concrete gravity walls and similarly or more cost effective than ground anchor walls.\n\nInspection activities play a vital role in the production of high-quality soil nail walls because conformance to project plans and specifications should result in a soil nail wall that will perform its intended duty for its designed duration. Inspections usually involve evaluation of the following: conformance of system components to material specification, conformance of construction methods to execution specifications, conformance to short-term performance specifications, and long-term monitoring. Short-term performance specifications are checked with loads tests, which use hydraulic jacks and pumps to perform several load applications. Three common load tests for short-term performance are verification or ultimate load tests, proof tests and creep tests. Verification or ultimate load tests are conducted to verify the compliance of the soil nails with pullout capacity and strengths resulting from the contractor's installation method. Proof tests are intended to verify that the contractor's construction procedure has been consistent and that the nails have not been drilled and grouted in a soil zone not tested in the verification stage. Creep tests are performed to ensure that the nail design loads can be safely carried throughout the structure's service life.\n\nLong-term performance monitoring is used to collect data to ensure adequate performance and refine future design practices. Parameters to be measured include vertical and horizontal movement of the wall face, local movements or deterioration of facing elements, drainage to the ground, loads, load distribution and load changes in the nails, temperature and rainfall. These parameters are measured using several specific tools including inclinometers, load cells and strain gauges.\n\n"}
{"id": "14897195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14897195", "title": "Son of Man (novel)", "text": "Son of Man (novel)\n\nSon of Man is a science fiction novel by American writer Robert Silverberg, published in 1971. The book is about Clay, a 20th-century man, who travels billions of years into the future and meets humanity in its future forms. Some of the issues discussed in the book are sexuality, telepathic communication between people, physical prowess or frailty, division of humans by caste or ability, and the preservation of ancient wisdom, among other things.\n\nNorman Spinrad has described it as \"brilliant\". Matt Hughes considers it \"an artifact of its period, a remarkable, heady, head-trippy plunge into a new way of writing sf, and into a new way of thinking\", but notes that because Silverberg is addressing \"the timeless questions -- what are we? where do we come from? where are we going?\", the book has not become \"stale and musty\".\n\n"}
{"id": "55322654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55322654", "title": "Steinhardt Museum of Natural History", "text": "Steinhardt Museum of Natural History\n\nThe Steinhardt Museum of Natural History, Israel National Center for Biodiversity Studies at Tel Aviv University, is a natural history museum in Israel, including both education and a research center. It is the largest and most active center in Israel of documentation and science, focusing on biodiversity research and its varied applications including nature conservation, environmental protection, and agriculture.\n\nThe museum is set for the discovery, collections development and care, and scientific categorization of millions of specimens, documenting the flora and fauna in the area, as well as the history of humankind and its interactions with the environment. It provides access to its scientific treasures and accumulated knowledge to the public and the scientific and professional community.\n\nThe Museum’s collections holding some 5.5 million items accumulated by many scientists from Tel Aviv University and other institutions, find their new home at the Steinhardt Museum of Natural History.\n\nThe collections document the flora and fauna of Israel and the Middle East for thousands of years, as well as human development and the history of humankind.\nThe museum building is located in the east of Tel Aviv University campus, across the Diaspora Museum gate, adjacent to the Botanic Gardens\nand the I. Meier Segals Garden for Zoological Research.\nThe construction of the museum building was made possible following the support of Michael Steinhardt, former Chairman of the Board of Governors of Tel Aviv University, and his wife, Judy, as well as donations from other foundations and individuals (Yad Hanadiv, Dan David Foundation, Arison Foundation, KKL-JNF, Millie Phillips, Colette Kerber, and Haim Filler, as well as government assistance provided by the Planning and Grants Committee of the Council of Higher Education, the Ministries of Environmental Protection; Agriculture and Rural Development; Tourism; Science & Technology.\nThe museum's collections operate under the auspices of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities and with the support of the Planning and Grants Committee of the Council of Higher Education.\nDesigned by Kimmel Eshkolot Architects. The museum opened to the public July 2018. \n\nThe 9620 sq m five story museum building was designed as a \"Treasure Box\" or \"Noah's Ark\" \nThousands of items from the collections, used primarily for research, presented to the public, as part of exhibitions at the museum. Exhibition spaces comprise over 1,700 square meters\nin nine themed exhibitions: bird migration; Israel's diversity of ecosystems; bugs and beyond; life in dark; (animal) shape, structure and functions; human impacts on the environment; the web of life; the collections treasure.\nThe Steinhardt Museum of Natural History is chaired by Prof. Tamar Dayan\n(of the School of Zoology at Tel Aviv University). Alon Sapan is the Museum’s director.\n\nThe museum's collections are used for basic and applied research, for teaching and training, and for exhibitions to open to the public.\nThe Zoological Museum (Department of Zoology, Faculty of Life Sciences), the National Herbarium of algae, fungi, and lichen (Department of Molecular Biology and Ecology of Plants, Faculty of Life Sciences), National Anthropological Collections (Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine), and the collections and laboratories of biological archeology (Institute of Archeology, Faculty Humanities) have joined forces to establish the Steinhardt Museum of Natural History, Israel National Center for Biodiversity Studies.\n\nThe Museum maintains millions of specimens that record the fauna and flora of the region over the past century, as well as the development and history of humankind. \nThe collections are an extremely active National Research Infrastructure that is used by over 500 scientists,\ngraduate students, and professionals from Israel and the world every year.\nThe Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities recognized the collections as national collections, a national museum of natural history in the making,\nwhile the National Council for Research & Development recognizes them as a National Research Infrastructure. \nThe Ministry of Science & Technology recognizes the museum as a Knowledge center in agricultural and the environment.\n\nThe Israel Taxonomy Initiative (ITI), a project supported by the higher education system of Israel, government ministries and agencies, and various research institutions, functions within The Steinhardt Museum of Natural History. Its main activities aim to revive the field of taxonomy, to train of taxonomists, and to deepen the knowledge of the biodiversity of Israel. The ultimate goal of the initiative is to contribute to the study, conservation and sustainable use of ecosystems in Israel.\n\nThe museum integrates and absorbs the educational activities previously conducted within \"Campus-Teva\" \nat Tel Aviv University.\n\n"}
{"id": "1052848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1052848", "title": "Sucellus", "text": "Sucellus\n\nIn Gallo-Roman religion, Sucellus or Sucellos was a deity depicted as carrying a large mallet (also described as a hammer) and also an \"olla\" and/or barrel. Originally a Celtic deity, his cult flourished not only among Gallo-Romans, but also to some extent among the neighbouring peoples of Raetia and Britain. He has been associated with agriculture and wine, particularly in the territory of the Aedui.\nHe is usually portrayed as a middle-aged bearded man, with a long-handled hammer, or perhaps a beer barrel suspended from a pole. His companion Nantosuelta is sometimes depicted alongside him. When together, they are accompanied by symbols associated with prosperity and domesticity.\n\nIn a well-known relief from Sarrebourg, near Metz, Nantosuelta, wearing a long gown, is standing to the left. In her left hand she holds a small house-shaped object with two circular holes and a peaked roof – perhaps a dovecote – on a long pole. Her right hand holds a patera which she is tipping onto a cylindrical altar. \nTo the right Sucellus stands, bearded, in a tunic with a cloak over his right shoulder. He holds his mallet in his right hand and an \"olla\" in his left. \nAbove the figures is a dedicatory inscription and below them in very low relief is a raven. This sculpture was dated by Reinach, from the form of the letters, to the end of the first century or start of the second century.\n\nAt least eleven inscriptions to Sucellus are known, mostly from Gaul. One (\"RIB\" II, 3/2422.21) is from Eboracum (modern York) in Britain.\n\nIn an inscription from Augusta Rauricorum (modern Augst), Sucellus is identified with Silvanus:\n\nThe syncretism of Sucellus with Silvanus can also be seen in artwork from Narbonensis.\n\nIn Gaulish, the root \"cellos\" can be interpreted as 'striker', derived from Proto-Indo-European \"*-kel-do-s\" whence also come Latin \"per-cellere\" ('striker'), Greek \"klao\" ('to break') and Lithuanian \"kálti\" ('to hammer, to forge'). The prefix \"su-\" means 'good' or 'well' and is found in many Gaulish personal names. \"Sucellus\" is therefore commonly translated as 'the good striker.'\n\nAn alternate etymology is offered by Celticist Blanca María Prósper, who posits a derivative of the Proto-Indo-European root \"*kel-\" ‘to protect’, i.e. \"*su-kel-mó(n)\" \"having a good protection\" or \"*su-kel-mṇ-\", an agentive formation meaning \"protecting well, providing good protection\", with a thematic derivative built on the oblique stem, \"*su-kel-mn-o-\" (and subsequent simplification and assimilation of the sonorant cluster and a secondary full grade of the root). Prósper suggests the name would then be comparable to the Indic personal name \"Suśarman-\", found in Hindu mythology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4359757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4359757", "title": "The Sheep and the Goats", "text": "The Sheep and the Goats\n\nThe Sheep and the Goats or \"the Judgment of the Nations\" is a pronouncement of Jesus recorded in chapter 25 of Matthew's Gospel in the New Testament. It is sometimes characterised as a parable, although unlike most parables it does not purport to relate a story of events happening to other characters. According to Anglican theologian Charles Ellicott, \"we commonly speak of the concluding portion of this chapter as the parable of the Sheep and the Goats, but it is obvious from its very beginning that it passes beyond the region of parable into that of divine realities, and that the sheep and goats form only a subordinate and parenthetic illustration\". This portion concludes the section of Matthew's Gospel known as the Olivet Discourse and immediately precedes Matthew's account of Jesus' passion and resurrection.\n\nThis story and the parable of the ten virgins and the parable of the talents in the same chapter \"have a common aim, as impressing on the disciples the necessity at once of watchfulness and of activity in good, but each has ... a very distinct scope of its own\".\n\nThe text of the passage appears in Matthew's Gospel and is the final portion of a section containing a series of parables. From :\n\nThis passage directly addresses, in Jesus's own words, one of the most vexed questions in Christian theology – who goes to Heaven, and why. A related question is whether only orthodox Christians may be saved, or whether 'virtuous pagans' also may. The three main theological positions in this regard are:\n\n\nThis parable seems on a natural reading to support the first view, justification by works. The 'sheep' are saved because of the good deeds they have done, independent of any framework of knowledge or belief, or hope of future benefit. Some Calvinist theologians in particular have therefore attempted to get out from under the passage either by restricting the range of the phrase 'the least of these my brethren', or denying that the passage has any literal application to the after-life. The first option seems to be unnatural and to go against the spirit of the parable of the Good Samaritan. As associate professor of Biblical Languages at Union Presbyterian Seminary, E. Carson Brisson, says, \"Let it be noted that this list of afflicted and needy individuals is, at first glance, a list of the very ones who appear to be bereft of God's favor. These are ‘the least.’ These are truly ‘other.’\" The first option also does not support predestination, but at most might indicate, say, that unbelievers are to be judged by how well they treat believers.\n\nBelievers in justification by faith may still accept that good works may function as a test or measure of belief. See James 2:14-17, which appears to indirectly reference this parable:\n\n"}
{"id": "56348218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56348218", "title": "Vinny Lauwers", "text": "Vinny Lauwers\n\nVincent Marc Thierry Lauwers (born 12 September 1967) is an Australian round-the-world yachtsman. In 2000 he became the first paraplegic sailor to sail solo, non-stop around the world. In 2001, he won the Laureus Award for \"Sportsperson of the Year with a Disability\".\n\nVinny Lauwers was born in Belgium on 12 September 1967 and emigrated to Australia at the age of four.\nHe first experienced ocean sailing aged 14, crewing on a yacht from Melbourne to Sydney.\nHe became a paraplegic in 1990, when he was 22; Lauwers' back was broken in three places after he was hit by a car.\n\nBefore his circumnavigation Lauwers gained extra experience in the Melbourne to Osaka Yacht Race, a non-stop south to north, double-handed race, covering a 5500 nautical mile course between the two sister cities and also sailing in two Sydney to Hobart Yacht Races with the Sailors with disability (SWD) crew, including SWD's first entry in 1994.\nLauwers spent seven years planning his voyage and building his yacht, a Van de Stadt-designed 47 named \"Vision Quest\".\n\nHe was instructed for two years on the synoptics of the Southern Hemisphere by meteorologist Bob Leighton who, together with colleagues from the Australian Bureau of Meteorology's National Meteorological Operations Centre, also provided regular forecasts during Lauwers' journey.\n\nHis circumnavigation attempt commenced on 20 December 1999 from Port Phillip Bay in Melbourne, Australia.\nDuring his voyage he encountered many hardships. Equipment problems included autopilot malfunctions, failed radar, and a self-destructing wind generator.\n\nThe voyage took seven and a half months, finishing on 9 August 2000. Welcome celebrations were planned for Lauwers to finish his voyage on Saturday 12 August, but with a gale developing in Bass Strait, he decided to enter the Bay and cross the official finish line on the 9th. He anchored and stayed on board until continuing on to the Williamstown Pier and planned celebrations.\nHis official welcome home at the Royal Yacht Club of Victoria was attended by over a thousand people including Premier Steve Bracks.\n\"Vision Quest\"'s World Sailing Speed Record Council's Performance Certificate lists its route time as 233 days 13 hours 43 minutes and 8 seconds and the distance covered as 21760 nautical miles.\n\nOn 15 August 2000, Lauwers and his feat were recognised in the Australian Parliament. He was awarded the Australian Sports Medal in July 2000 and in January 2001, the Australian Centenary Medal \"for outstanding service as the first paraplegic sailor to sail around the world unassisted\".\n\nIn 2000 Lauwers was nominated for the International Sailing Federation (ISAF) World Sailor of the Year Awards. Lauwers was Australian Sailing's Sailor of the Year with a Disability for 2000–01 and shared the Yachting Victoria's Sailor of the Year Trophy in 2001.\n\nIn 2001 Lauwers was awarded the Laureus World Sports Award for Sportsperson of the Year with a Disability. At the awards ceremony, where he was presented with his statuette by New Zealand sailor Sir Peter Blake and French footballer David Ginola, Lauwers joked that his wife allowed him a mistress \"and she’s 48 foot long, 15 foot wide and has all the right curves.\"\n\nOn 25 May 2001, he was awarded the P&O Nedlloyd Disabled Sailor of the Year accolade.\n\nIn 2002 a DVD video, \"The spirit of vision quest : the Vinny Lauwers story\", was released.\n\nSpeaking of his crew members such as Lauwers and Liesl Tesch, founder of Sailors with Disabilities, David Pescud said, \"People are people first and your disability is either part of your life; it owns you or you own it. The guys I sail with, they own their disability and I’ve been very fortunate that I’ve sailed with some of the most amazing people.\"\n"}
