{"id": "58299996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58299996", "title": "A Zin Latt", "text": "A Zin Latt\n\nA Zin Latt (, also known as Kay Kay (or) Kay Zin Latt; born 18 January 1981) is a Burmese politician and physician currently serving as a Pyithu Hluttaw MP for Shwebo constituency. She is a member of the National League for Democracy.\n\nLatt was born on 18 January 1981 in Kanbalu Township, Myanmar. She graduated with M.B.B.S from University of Medicine, Mandalay. Her previous job is doctor.\n\nShe is a member of the National League for Democracy. In the Myanmar general election, 2015, she was elected as an Pyithu Hluttaw MP and elected representative from Shwebo constituency.\n"}
{"id": "28341736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28341736", "title": "Alberta-British Columbia foothills forests", "text": "Alberta-British Columbia foothills forests\n\nThe Alberta-British Columbia foothills forests are a temperate coniferous forests ecoregion of Canada. This ecoregion borders Canada's taiga and contains a mix of subarctic forest and temperate forest species as a result. This makes the region an ecotone region, or a region that acts as a buffer between two other biomes.\n\nThis ecoregion covers two separate areas: the rolling foothills of the Rocky Mountains in Alberta, and further west a smaller area of the hills and valleys of central British Columbia. The Clear Hills in the north of the region are steeper.\n\nAverage annual temperature vary from -0.5°C to 2°C, with the summer temperatures around 14°C dropping in winter to -17.5°C in the north and -10°C in the south.\n\nThe forests are a mixture dominated by lodgepole pine (\"Pinus contorta\"), jack pine (\"Pinus banksiana\"), trembling aspen (\"Populus tremuloides\"), black spruce (\"Picea mariana\"), and white spruce (\"Picea glauca\"). Other trees include balsam poplar (\"populus balsamifera\"), paper birch (\"Betula papyrifera\") and balsam fir (\"Abies balsamifera\").\n\nThese foothills are home to the largest herds of moose (\"Alces alces\") in North America. Not only are the moose plentiful, but there are two subspecies of moose: the smaller Shiras moose (\"Alces alces shirasi\") of the Rocky Mountains and the larger western moose (\"Alces alces andersoni\") of Canada. It is not known if the two subspecies hybridize in areas where they meet.\n\nOther mammals include snowshoe hare (\"Lepus americanus\"), caribou (\"rangier tarandus\"), beaver (\"Castor canadensis\"), muskrat (\"Ondatra zibethica\"), wolf (\"Canis lupus occidentalis\") and two subspecies of black bear the cinnamon bear (\"Ursus americanus cinnamomum\") of the Rocky Mountains and the eastern black bear (\"Ursus americanus americanus\") of the Canadian Taiga.\n\nBirds of the area include sandhill cranes (\"Grus canadensis\"), ruffed grouse (\"Bonasa umbellus\"), spruce grouse (\"Falcipennis canadensis\") and large numbers of waterbirds and New World warblers (Parulidae).\n\nThese forests have been extensively altered by human activity, especially clearance for planting.\n"}
{"id": "877434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=877434", "title": "Anthony Collett", "text": "Anthony Collett\n\nAnthony Keeling Collett (22 August 1877 – 22 August 1929) was an author and writer on natural history subjects and was nature correspondent for \"The Times\" during the 1910s and 1920s.\n\nCollett's father was the Reverend William Collett, a former fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. He was born at Cromhall, Gloucestershire, where his father held the living that was dispensed by Oriel College, and was educated privately at Crowthorne and then at Bradfield School before being awarded a scholarship to study Classics at Oriel. After graduating he was awarded a college scholarship that enabled him to spend some time at the University of Berlin.\n\nCollett began work as a journalist for the \"St. James's Gazette\" in London, where he wrote on many subjects. From 1908, he also contributed to \"The Times\", although not as a staff member until after World War I. He enlisted in the Post Office Rifles for that war, initially as a private and later as a commissioned officer. After fighting at Vimy Ridge, Collett, who was in any case generally not a particularly healthy man, was invalided home and served the rest of the war working in the War Office.\n\nHe was not enamoured of London and regularly lived and produced his writings from other places, including in the Italian Alps, Scotland and Wales. During the war, he had managed occasionally to write articles while in France. He died in a London nursing home on 22 August 1929, on his 52nd birthday, having suffered a significant decline in his already poor health in the previous two years. That decline may have been related to his war service.\n\nCollett retained an affection for Bradfield School and was a governor there for many years.\n\nW. H. Auden used many phrases from Collett's \"Changing Face of England\" in his poems.\n\nThe Chase, a woodland in Woolton Hill, was dedicated to the memory of Collett (according to a plaque on the site) when the land was presented to the National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty in 1944 by Sir Kenneth Swan as a nature reserve and bird sanctuary.\n\nAmong Collett's publications are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37683378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37683378", "title": "Banda Arc", "text": "Banda Arc\n\nThe Banda Arc (main arc, Inner, and Outer) is a set of island arcs that exist in eastern Indonesia. It manifests the collision of a continent and an intra-oceanic island arc. The presently active arc is located on what appears to be oceanic crust whereas the associated subduction trench is underlain by continental crust. The convergence of the Indo-Australian plates and Eurasia and resulted in the formation of the Sunda and Banda island arcs. The transitional zone between the arcs is located south of Flores Island and is characterized by the change in the tectonic regime along the boundary.\n\nSome academic literature refers to the arcs by location – so that main arc can be referred to as the 'southern', the 'western' Situated at the centre of three converging and colliding major tectonic plates, Indo-Australia, Eurasia, Pacific, the Banda arc comprises young oceanic crust enclosed by a volcanic inner arc, outer arc islands and a trough parallel to the Australian continental margin. It is a complex subduction setting (where one plate moves under another, sinking into the Earth's mantle), with possibly the largest fold on Earth, extending to a depth of about , in a subducted plate.\n\nThe Banda Arc is a double island arc formed by the collision of the Indo-Australian plate with the Eurasian plate. Principal islands include Timor, Flores, and Seram.\n\nThe feature they apparently formed is a 180-degree arc, which is more than long. Geographically, it stretches across eastern Indonesia, and is delimited by an active inner volcanic arc. The outer arc contains numerous islands, and its internal structure contains young oceanic crust exclusively.\n\n"}
{"id": "11499338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11499338", "title": "Biometeorology", "text": "Biometeorology\n\nBiometeorology is the interdisciplinary field of science that studies the interactions between the biosphere and the Earth's atmosphere on time scales of the order of seasons or shorter (by opposition to bioclimatology).\n\nWeather events influence biological processes on short time scales. For instance, as the Sun rises above the horizon in the morning, light levels become sufficient for the process of photosynthesis to take place in plant leaves. Later on, during the day, air temperature and humidity may induce the partial or total closure of the stomata, a typical response of many plants to limit the loss of water through transpiration. More generally, the daily evolution of meteorological variables controls the circadian rhythm of plants and animals alike.\n\nLiving organisms, for their part, can collectively affect weather patterns. The rate of evapotranspiration of forests, or of any large vegetated area for that matter, contributes to the release of water vapor in the atmosphere. This local, relatively fast and continuous process may contribute significantly to the persistence of precipitations in a given area. As another example, the wilting of plants results in definite changes in leaf angle distribution and therefore modifies the rates of reflection, transmission and absorption of solar light in these plants. That, in turn, changes the albedo of the ecosystem as well as the relative importance of the sensible and latent heat fluxes from the surface to the atmosphere. For an example in oceanography, consider the release of dimethyl sulfide by biological activity in sea water and its impact on atmospheric aerosols.\n\nThe methods and measurements traditionally used in biometeorology are not different when applied to study the interactions between human bodies and the atmosphere, but some aspects or applications may have been explored more extensively. For instance, wind chill has been investigated to determine the time period an individual can sustain exposure to given temperature and wind conditions. Another important example concerns the study of airborne allergens (such as pollens and aerosols) and their impact on individuals: weather conditions can favor or hinder the release as well as the transport and deposition of these allergens, sometimes severely affecting the well-being of sensitive populations.\n\n\nWeather's health effects:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58902517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58902517", "title": "Block and ash flow", "text": "Block and ash flow\n\nA block and ash flow or block-and-ash flow is a flowing mixture of volcanic ash and large (>26 cm) angular blocks commonly formed as result of a gravitational collapse of a lava dome or lava flow. Block and ash flows are a type of pyroclastic flow and as such they form during volcanic eruptions. In difference to other types of pyroclastic flows block and ash fows do no contain pumice and the volume of block and ash flow deposits is usually small. Block and ash flows deposits have densities in the range of 1600 to 2000 kg/m, two to five time greater than ash fall deposits. Some blocks in block and ash flow deposits may have thin and shiny coatings of carbon derived from charcoal formed from vegetation trapped by the flow.\n\nSome volcanoes known for their production of block and ash flows in since the 1990s are Mount Unzen in Japan, Mount Merapi in Java and Soufrière Hills in the Lesser Antilles.\n"}
{"id": "48667512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48667512", "title": "Blodite group", "text": "Blodite group\n\nThe blodite group is a group of minerals with two (in most cases divalent) cations and two anions. The group includes blodite, leonite KMg(SO)•4(HO), anapaite CaFe(PO)•4(HO), schertelite (NH)Mg(POOH)•4(HO,) manganoblödite NaMn(SO)•4(HO), cobaltoblödite NaCo(SO) •4(HO), changoiteNaZn(SO)•4(HO)\n"}
{"id": "1256165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1256165", "title": "Calorie restriction", "text": "Calorie restriction\n\nCalorie restriction, or caloric restriction, or energy restriction, is a dietary regimen that reduces calorie intake without incurring malnutrition or a reduction in essential nutrients. \"Reduce\" can be defined relative to the subject's previous intake before intentionally restricting calories, or relative to an average person of similar body type. Commonly consumed food components containing calories are carbohydrates, proteins and fat.\n\nIn preliminary research, some non-human species on calorie restriction diets without malnutrition may exhibit slowing of the biological aging process, resulting in an increase in both median and maximum lifespan, but this effect is not universal. In humans, the long-term health effects of moderate caloric restriction with sufficient nutrients are unknown.\n\nThe term \"calorie restriction\" as used in gerontology refers to dietary regimens that reduce calorie intake without incurring malnutrition. If a restricted diet is not designed to include essential nutrients, malnutrition may result in serious deleterious effects, as shown in the Minnesota Starvation Experiment. This study was conducted during World War II on a group of lean men, who restricted their calorie intake by 45% for 6 months and composed roughly 77% of their diet with carbohydrates. As expected, this malnutrition resulted in many positive metabolic adaptations (e.g. decreased body fat, blood pressure, improved lipid profile, low serum T3 concentration, and decreased resting heart rate and whole-body resting energy expenditure), but also caused a wide range of negative effects, such as anemia, edema, muscle wasting, weakness, neurological deficits, dizziness, irritability, lethargy, and depression.\n\nShort-term studies in humans report a loss of muscle mass and strength and reduced bone mineral density. However, whether or not the reduction in bone mineral density actually harms bone health is unclear. In a study in premenopausal women, bone mineral density after weight loss was higher when normalized for body weight; reduced bone mineral density is also observed in humans undergoing long-term calorie restriction with adequate nutrition, but no fractures have been reported and the reduction in bone mineral density was not associated with deleterious changes in bone microarchitecture.\n\nThe authors of a 2007 review of the caloric restriction literature warned that \"[i]t is possible that even moderate calorie restriction may be harmful in specific patient populations, such as lean persons who have minimal amounts of body fat.\"\n\nCaloric restriction diets typically lead to reduced body weight, yet reduced weight can come from other causes and is not in itself necessarily healthy. In some studies, low body weight has been associated with increased mortality, particularly in late middle-aged or elderly subjects. Low body weight in the elderly can be caused by pathological conditions associated with aging and predisposing to higher mortality (such as cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, or depression) or of the cachexia (wasting syndrome) and sarcopenia (loss of muscle mass, structure, and function). One study linked a body mass index lower than 18 in women with increased mortality from noncancer, non−cardiovascular disease causes. The authors attempted to adjust for confounding factors (cigarette smoking, failure to exclude pre-existing disease); others argued that the adjustments were inadequate.\n\nSuch epidemiological studies of body weight are not about caloric restriction as used in anti-aging studies; they are not about caloric intake to begin with, as body weight is influenced by many factors other than energy intake, Moreover, \"the quality of the diets consumed by the low-body mass index individuals are difficult to assess, and may lack nutrients important to longevity.\" Typical low-calorie diets rarely provide the high nutrient intakes that are a necessary feature of an anti-aging calorie restriction diet. As well, \"The lower-weight individuals in the studies are not a caloric restriction because their caloric intake reflects their individual ad libitum set-points and not a reduction from that set-point.\"\n\nIn those who have a binge-eating disorder, calorie restriction can precipitate an episode of binge eating, but it does not seem to pose any such risk otherwise.\n\nLong-term caloric restriction at a level sufficient for slowing the aging process is generally not recommended in children, adolescents, and young adults (under the age of approximately 21), because this type of diet may interfere with natural physical growth, as has been observed in laboratory animals. In addition, mental development and physical changes to the brain take place in late adolescence and early adulthood that could be negatively affected by severe caloric restriction. Pregnant women and women trying to become pregnant are advised not to practice calorie restriction, because low BMI may result in ovulatory dysfunction (infertility), and underweight mothers are more prone to preterm delivery.\n\nIt has also been noted that people losing weight on such diets risk developing cold sensitivity, menstrual irregularities, infertility, and hormonal changes.\n\nEven though there has been research on caloric restriction for over 70 years, the mechanism by which caloric restriction works is not well understood. Some explanations include reduced core body temperature, reduced cellular divisions, lower metabolic rates and hormesis, according to one review of laboratory research.\n\nCaloric restriction lowers the core body temperature, a phenomenon believed to be an adaptive response to reduce energy expenditure when nutrients availability is limited. Lowering the temperature may prolong the lifespan of cold blooded animals. Mice, which are warm blooded, have been engineered to have a reduced core body temperature which increased the lifespan independently of calorie restriction.\n\nSome research has pointed toward hormesis as an explanation for the benefits of caloric restriction, representing beneficial actions linked to a low-intensity biological stressor such as reduced calorie intake. As a potential role for caloric restriction, the diet imposes a low-intensity biological stress on the organism, eliciting a defensive response that may help protect it against the disorders of aging. In other words, caloric restriction places the organism in a defensive state so that it can survive adversity, resulting in improved health and longer life. This switch to a defensive state may be controlled by longevity genes (see below).\n\nIt has been recently argued that during years of famine, it may be evolutionarily desirable for an organism to avoid reproduction and to up-regulate protective and repair enzyme mechanisms to ensure that it is fit for reproduction in future years. This argument seems to be supported by recent work studying hormones. Prolonged severe CR lowers total serum and free testosterone while increasing sex hormone binding globulin concentrations in humans; these effects are independent of adiposity. \n\nLowering of the concentration of insulin and substances related to insulin, such as insulin-like growth factor 1 and growth hormone, has been shown to up-regulate autophagy, the repair mechanism of the cell. A related hypothesis suggests that caloric restriction works by decreasing insulin levels and thereby up-regulating autophagy, but caloric restriction affects many other health indicators, and it is still undecided whether insulin is the main concern. Calorie restriction has been shown to increase DHEA in primates, but it has not been shown to increase DHEA in post-pubescent primates. The extent to which these findings apply to humans is still under investigation.\n\nPreliminary research indicates that sirtuins are activated by fasting and serve as \"energy sensors\" during metabolism. Sirtuins, specifically Sir2 (found in yeast) have been implicated in the aging of yeast, and are a class of highly conserved, NAD-dependent histone deacetylase enzymes. Sir2 homologs have been identified in a wide range of organisms from bacteria to humans. Yeast has 3 SIR genes (SIR2, SIR3, and SIR4) that are responsible for silencing mating type loci, telomeres, and rDNA. Although all three genes are required for the silencing of mating type loci and telomeres, only SIR2 has been implicated in the silencing of rDNA. In addition, SIR2 related genes also regulate formation of some specialized survival forms, such as spores in yeast and daher larvae in \"C. elegans\". A study done by Kaeberlein et al. (1999) in yeast found that deletions of Sir2 decreased lifespan, and additional copies increased lifespan.\n\nIn many calorie restriction studies, it is believed that Sir2 mediates the longevity effects from calorie restriction for several reasons. First, it was found that in yeast without SIR2, calorie restriction did not impart longevity in yeast; second, in Sir2 mutants an abundance of extra-chromosomal ribosomal DNA circles (that typically limit lifespan) has been observed, and that mitigation of these circles restore regular life span, but still are resistant to calorie restriction-mediated longevity; third, that caloric restriction increases the activity of Sir2 \"in vivo\". Although Sir2 has been implicated in calorie restriction-mediated longevity, the method by which Sir2 is regulated under caloric restriction is still debated.\nWork on the mechanisms of caloric restriction has given hope to the synthesizing of future drugs to increase the human lifespan by simulating the effects of calorie restriction. In particular, the large number of genes and pathways reported to regulate the actions of caloric restriction in model organisms represent attractive targets for developing drugs that mimic the benefits of CR without its side effects.\n\nSir2, or \"silent information regulator 2\", is a sirtuin, discovered in baker's yeast cells, that is hypothesized to suppress DNA instability. In mammals, Sir2 is known as SIRT1. One proponent of the view that the gene Sir2 may underlie the effect of calorie restriction in mammals by protecting cells from dying under stress. It is suggested that a low-calorie diet that requires less Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide to metabolize may allow SIRT1 to be more active in its life-extending processes, possibly by a mechanism of SIRT1 releasing fat from storage cells.\n\nAttempts are being made to develop drugs that act as CR mimetics, and much of that work has focused on a class of proteins called sirtuins. Resveratrol has been reported to activate SIRT1 and extend the lifespan of yeast, nematode worms, fruit flies, vertebrate fish, and mice consuming a high-caloric diet. However, resveratrol does not extend life span in normal mice and the effect of resveratrol on lifespan in nematodes and fruit flies has been disputed.\n\nThere are studies that indicate that resveratrol may not function through SIRT1 but may work through other targets. A clinical trial of the resveratrol formulation SRT501 was suspended.\n\nAncient medicine, the province of Hippocrates and Galen after him, taught that the very fat were destined to die suddenly more often than the slender. Around 1000 A.D. Avicenna taught the elderly to eat less than when they were young. Around 1500 because his health was failing due to gluttony, the Venetian nobleman Luigi Cornaro adopted a calorie restricted diet at age 35 and went on to live to be 102 years old. His very successful book \"Discorsi della vita sobria\" described his regimen, restricting himself to of food daily (including bread, egg yolk, meat, and soup) and of wine.\n\nIn 1919 after observing starvation in Central Europe during World War I, Francis Benedict and his colleagues published \"Human Vitality and Efficiency Under Prolonged Restricted Diet\" based on their experiment with 10% calorie reduction on male college students at the Carnegie Institution for Science. Reduced rations had turned out to be \"not necessarily cataclysmic.\" Faced with some evidence for what was unknown at the time but today is called metabolic adaptation, Benedict wanted to find the science behind what appeared to be an adjustment in metabolic rate when food intake was below energy expenditure.\n\nHoping to learn how to refeed the people who had starved during World War II, between 1944 and 1945, 36 healthy conscientious objectors participated in the Minnesota Starvation Experiment, published in 1950 as \"The Biology of Human Starvation\" by lead investigator Ancel Keys and colleagues. Because the men were receiving 40% CR and subject to malnutrition this study was not one of calorie restriction \"per se\".\n\nEA Vallejo published a study of approximately 35% CR in the Spanish language in 1957, testing CR without malnutrition in nonobese elderly persons. About 30% CR for six months was achieved accidentally in the Biosphere 2 experiment during the 1990s.\n\nStudies have been conducted to examine the effects of calorie restriction with adequate intake of nutrients in humans; however, long-term effects are unknown. One objection to calorie restriction in humans is a claim that the physiological mechanisms determining longevity are complex, and that the effect would be small to negligible. Effects of calorie restriction in humans over multiple years or decades may be small in comparison to conventional medical and public health interventions, but have not yet been clearly determined.\n\nA review of the effects of calorie restriction on the aging heart and vasculature concluded that \"Data from animal and human studies indicate that [beyond the effects of \"implementation of healthier diets and regular exercise\"], more drastic interventions, i.e., calorie restriction with adequate nutrition (CRAN), may have additional beneficial effects on several metabolic and molecular factors that are modulating cardiovascular aging itself (e.g., cardiac and arterial stiffness and heart rate variability).\" Studies of long-term practitioners of rigorous calorie restriction show that their risk factors for atherosclerosis are substantially improved in a manner consistent with experimental studies in rodent models of atherosclerosis and nonhuman primates. Risk factors such as c-reactive protein; serum triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein, high-density lipoprotein; blood pressure; and fasting blood sugar, are substantially more favorable than persons consuming usual Western diets and comparable or better than long-term endurance exercisers. Similar effects were also seen during a \"natural experiment\" in Biosphere 2, and effects on blood pressure, cholesterol level, and resting heart rate were seen in subjects in the “Minnesota Starvation Experiment” during World War II. Cardiac \"diastolic function was better in subjects who practiced strict calorie restriction for 3–15 years than that in healthy age- and sex-matched control subjects ... calorie restriction subjects had less ventricular stiffness and less viscous loss of diastolic recoil, both of which would be consistent with less myocardial fibrosis. \"These effects, in combination with other benefits of calorie restriction, such as protection against obesity, diabetes, hypertension, and cancer, suggest that CR may have a major beneficial effect on health span, life span, and quality of life in humans.\"\n\nIn a 2017 collaborative report on rhesus monkeys by scientists of the US National Institute on Aging and the University of Wisconsin, caloric restriction in the presence of adequate nutrition was effective in delaying the effects of aging. Older age of onset, female sex, lower body weight and fat mass, reduced food intake, diet quality, and lower fasting blood glucose levels were factors associated with fewer disorders of aging and with improved survival rates. Specifically, reduced food intake was beneficial in adult and older primates, but not in younger monkeys. The study indicated that caloric restriction provided health benefits with fewer age-related disorders in elderly monkeys and, because rhesus monkeys are genetically similar to humans, the benefits and mechanisms of caloric restriction may apply to human health during aging.\n\nIt has been known since the 1930s that reducing the number of calories fed to laboratory rodents increases their life spans. The life extension varies for each species, but on average there was a 30–40% increase in life span in both mice and rats. In late adulthood, acute CR partially or completely reverses age-related alterations of liver, brain and heart proteins, and mice placed on CR at 19 months of age show an increases in life span.\n\nFungi models are very easy to manipulate, and many crucial steps toward the understanding of aging have been made with them. Many studies were undertaken on budding yeast and fission yeast to analyze the cellular mechanisms behind increased longevity due to calorie restriction. First, calorie restriction is often called dietary restriction because the same effects on life span can be achieved by only changing the nutrient quality without changing the number of calories. Data from Guarente and others showed that genetic manipulations in nutrient-signaling pathways could mimic the effects of dietary restriction. In some cases, dietary restriction requires mitochondrial respiration to increase longevity (chronological aging), and in some other cases not (replicative aging). Nutrient sensing in yeast controls stress defense, mitochondrial functions, Sir2, and others. These functions are all known to regulate aging. Genes involved in these mechanisms are TOR, PKA, SCH9, MSN2/4, RIM15, and SIR2. Importantly, yeast responses to CR can be modulated by genetic background. Therefore, while some strains respond to calorie restriction with increased lifespan, in others calorie restriction shortens it \n\nCalorie restriction preserves muscle tissue in nonhuman primates and rodents. Mechanisms include reduced muscle cell apoptosis and inflammation; protection against or adaptation to age-related mitochondrial abnormalities; and preserved muscle stem cell function. Muscle tissue grows when stimulated, so it has been suggested that the calorie-restricted test animals exercised more than their companions on higher calories, perhaps because animals enter a foraging state during calorie restriction. However, studies show that overall activity levels are no higher in calorie restriction than ad libitum animals in youth. Laboratory rodents placed on a calorie restriction diet tend to exhibit increased activity levels (particularly when provided with exercise equipment) at feeding time. Monkeys undergoing calorie restriction also appear more restless immediately before and after meals.\n\nObservations in some accounts of animals undergoing calorie restriction have noted an increase in stereotyped behaviors. For example, monkeys on calorie restriction have demonstrated an increase in licking, sucking, and rocking behavior. A calorie restriction regimen may also lead to increased aggressive behavior in animals.\n\nIt has sometimes been suggested that the lives of calorie-restricted animals are only extended relative to control animals whose lives are artificially shortened by weight-gain from unnatural ad libitum feeding in the laboratory. However, studies designed to test this hypothesis suggest that reduced fat mass is not a major contributor to the longevity effects of calorie restriction.\n\n"}
{"id": "6824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6824", "title": "Carl Sagan", "text": "Carl Sagan\n\nCarl Edward Sagan (; November 9, 1934December 20, 1996) was an American astronomer, cosmologist, astrophysicist, astrobiologist, author, science popularizer, and science communicator in astronomy and other natural sciences. He is best known for his work as a science popularizer and communicator. His best known scientific contribution is research on extraterrestrial life, including experimental demonstration of the production of amino acids from basic chemicals by radiation. Sagan assembled the first physical messages sent into space: the Pioneer plaque and the Voyager Golden Record, universal messages that could potentially be understood by any extraterrestrial intelligence that might find them. Sagan argued the now accepted hypothesis that the high surface temperatures of Venus can be attributed to and calculated using the greenhouse effect.\n\nSagan published more than 600 scientific papers and articles and was author, co-author or editor of more than 20 books. He wrote many popular science books, such as \"The Dragons of Eden\", \"Broca's Brain\" and \"Pale Blue Dot\", and narrated and co-wrote the award-winning 1980 television series \"\". The most widely watched series in the history of American public television, \"Cosmos\" has been seen by at least 500 million people across 60 different countries. The book \"Cosmos\" was published to accompany the series. He also wrote the science fiction novel \"Contact\", the basis for a 1997 film of the same name. His papers, containing 595,000 items, are archived at The Library of Congress.\n\nSagan advocated scientific skeptical inquiry and the scientific method, pioneered exobiology and promoted the Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (SETI). He spent most of his career as a professor of astronomy at Cornell University, where he directed the Laboratory for Planetary Studies. Sagan and his works received numerous awards and honors, including the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal, the National Academy of Sciences Public Welfare Medal, the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction for his book \"The Dragons of Eden\", and, regarding \"Cosmos: A Personal Voyage\", two Emmy Awards, the Peabody Award, and the Hugo Award. He married three times and had five children. After suffering from myelodysplasia, Sagan died of pneumonia at the age of 62, on December 20, 1996.\n\nCarl Sagan was born in Brooklyn, New York. His father, Samuel Sagan, was an immigrant garment worker from Kamianets-Podilskyi, then in the Russian Empire, in today's Ukraine. His mother, Rachel Molly Gruber, was a housewife from New York. Carl was named in honor of Rachel's biological mother, Chaiya Clara, in Sagan's words, \"the mother she never knew.\"\n\nHe had a sister, Carol, and the family lived in a modest apartment near the Atlantic Ocean, in Bensonhurst, a Brooklyn neighborhood. According to Sagan, they were Reform Jews, the most liberal of North American Judaism's four main groups. Carl and his sister agreed that their father was not especially religious, but that their mother \"definitely believed in God, and was active in the temple;... and served only kosher meat.\" During the depths of the Depression, his father worked as a theater usher.\n\nAccording to biographer Keay Davidson, Sagan's \"inner war\" was a result of his close relationship with both of his parents, who were in many ways \"opposites.\" Sagan traced his later analytical urges to his mother, a woman who had been extremely poor as a child in New York City during World War I and the 1920s. As a young woman she had held her own intellectual ambitions, but they were frustrated by social restrictions: her poverty, her status as a woman and a wife, and her Jewish ethnicity. Davidson notes that she therefore \"worshipped her only son, Carl. He would fulfill her unfulfilled dreams.\"\n\nHowever, he claimed that his sense of wonder came from his father, who in his free time gave apples to the poor or helped soothe labor-management tensions within New York's garment industry. Although he was awed by Carl's intellectual abilities, he took his son's inquisitiveness in stride and saw it as part of his growing up. In his later years as a writer and scientist, Sagan would often draw on his childhood memories to illustrate scientific points, as he did in his book, \"Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors\". Sagan describes his parents' influence on his later thinking:\nSagan recalls that one of his most defining moments was when his parents took him to the 1939 New York World's Fair when he was four years old. The exhibits became a turning point in his life. He later recalled the moving map of the \"America of Tomorrow\" exhibit: \"It showed beautiful highways and cloverleaves and little General Motors cars all carrying people to skyscrapers, buildings with lovely spires, flying buttresses—and it looked great!\" At other exhibits, he remembered how a flashlight that shone on a photoelectric cell created a crackling sound, and how the sound from a tuning fork became a wave on an oscilloscope. He also witnessed the future media technology that would replace radio: television. Sagan wrote:\nHe also saw one of the Fair's most publicized events, the burial of a time capsule at Flushing Meadows, which contained mementos of the 1930s to be recovered by Earth's descendants in a future millennium. \"The time capsule thrilled Carl,\" writes Davidson. As an adult, Sagan and his colleagues would create similar time capsules—capsules that would be sent out into the galaxy; these were the Pioneer plaque and the \"Voyager Golden Record\" précis, all of which were spinoffs of Sagan's memories of the World's Fair.\n\nDuring World War II Sagan's family worried about the fate of their European relatives. Sagan, however, was generally unaware of the details of the ongoing war. He wrote, \"Sure, we had relatives who were caught up in the Holocaust. Hitler was not a popular fellow in our household... But on the other hand, I was fairly insulated from the horrors of the war.\" His sister, Carol, said that their mother \"above all wanted to protect Carl... She had an extraordinarily difficult time dealing with World War II and the Holocaust.\" Sagan's book, \"The Demon-Haunted World\" (1996), included his memories of this conflicted period, when his family dealt with the realities of the war in Europe but tried to prevent it from undermining his optimistic spirit.\n\nSoon after entering elementary school he began to express a strong inquisitiveness about nature. Sagan recalled taking his first trips to the public library alone, at the age of five, when his mother got him a library card. He wanted to learn what stars were, since none of his friends or their parents could give him a clear answer:\nAt about age six or seven, he and a close friend took trips to the American Museum of Natural History across the East River in Manhattan. While there, they went to the Hayden Planetarium and walked around the museum's exhibits of space objects, such as meteorites, and displays of dinosaurs and animals in natural settings. Sagan writes about those visits:\nHis parents helped nurture his growing interest in science by buying him chemistry sets and reading materials. His interest in space, however, was his primary focus, especially after reading science fiction stories by writers such as H. G. Wells and Edgar Rice Burroughs, which stirred his imagination about life on other planets such as Mars. According to biographer Ray Spangenburg, these early years as Sagan tried to understand the mysteries of the planets became a \"driving force in his life, a continual spark to his intellect, and a quest that would never be forgotten.\"\n\nIn 1947 he discovered \"Astounding Science Fiction\" magazine, which introduced him to more hard science fiction speculations than those in Burroughs's novels. That same year inaugurated the \"flying saucer\" mass hysteria with the young Carl suspecting the \"discs\" might be alien spaceships.\n\nSagan had lived in Bensonhurst where he went to David A. Boody Junior High School. He had his bar mitzvah in Bensonhurst when he turned 13. The following year, 1948, his family moved to the nearby town of Rahway, New Jersey for his father's work, where Sagan then entered Rahway High School. He graduated in 1951. Rahway was an older industrial town, and the Sagans were among its few Jewish families.\nSagan was a straight-A student but was bored due to unchallenging classes and uninspiring teachers. His teachers realized this and tried to convince his parents to send him to a private school, the administrator telling them, \"This kid ought to go to a school for gifted children, he has something really remarkable.\" This they couldn't do, partly because of the cost.\n\nSagan was made president of the school's chemistry club, and at home he set up his own laboratory. He taught himself about molecules by making cardboard cutouts to help him visualize how molecules were formed: \"I found that about as interesting as doing [chemical] experiments,\" he said. Sagan remained mostly interested in astronomy as a hobby, and in his junior year made it a career goal after he learned that astronomers were paid for doing what he always enjoyed: \"That was a splendid day­­­­—when I began to suspect that if I tried hard I could do astronomy full-time, not just part-time.\"\n\nBefore the end of high school, he entered an essay contest in which he posed the question of whether human contact with advanced life forms from another planet might be as disastrous for people on Earth as it was for Native Americans when they first had contact with Europeans. The subject was considered controversial, but his rhetorical skill won over the judges and they awarded him first prize. By graduation, his classmates had voted him \"Most likely to succeed,\" and put him in line to be valedictorian.\n\nSagan attended the University of Chicago, which was one of the few colleges he applied to that would consider admitting a sixteen-year-old, despite his excellent high school grades. Its Chancellor, Robert Hutchins, structured the school as an \"ideal meritocracy,\" with no age requirement. The school also employed a number of the nation's leading scientists, including Enrico Fermi and Edward Teller, along with operating the famous Yerkes Observatory.\n\nDuring his time as an honors program undergraduate, Sagan worked in the laboratory of the geneticist H. J. Muller and wrote a thesis on the origins of life with physical chemist Harold Urey. Sagan joined the Ryerson Astronomical Society, received a B.A. degree in laughingly self-proclaimed \"nothing\" with general and special honors in 1954, and a B.S. degree in physics in 1955. He went on to earn a M.S. degree in physics in 1956, before earning a Ph.D. degree in 1960 with his thesis \"Physical Studies of Planets\" submitted to the Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics.\n\nHe used the summer months of his graduate studies to work with his dissertation director, planetary scientist Gerard Kuiper, as well as physicist George Gamow, and chemist Melvin Calvin. The title of Sagan's dissertation reflects his shared interests with Kuiper, who throughout the 1950s had been president of the International Astronomical Union's commission on \"Physical Studies of Planets and Satellites\". In 1958, the two worked on the classified military Project A119, the secret Air Force plan to detonate a nuclear warhead on the Moon.\n\nSagan had a \"Top Secret\" clearance at the U.S. Air Force and a \"Secret\" clearance with NASA. While working on his doctoral dissertation, Sagan revealed US Government classified titles of two Project A119 papers when he applied for a University of California at Berkeley scholarship in 1959. The leak was not publicly revealed until 1999, when it was published in the journal \"Nature\". A follow-up letter to the journal by project leader Leonard Reiffel confirmed Sagan's security leak.\n\nFrom 1960 to 1962 Sagan was a Miller Fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. Meanwhile, he published an article in 1961 in the journal \"Science\" on the atmosphere of Venus, while also working with NASA's Mariner 2 team, and served as a \"Planetary Sciences Consultant\" to the RAND Corporation.\n\nAfter the publication of Sagan's \"Science\" article, in 1961 Harvard University astronomers Fred Whipple and Donald Menzel offered Sagan the opportunity to give a colloquium at Harvard, and they subsequently offered him a lecturer position at the institution. Sagan instead asked to be made an assistant professor, and eventually Whipple and Menzel were able to convince Harvard to offer Sagan the assistant professor position he requested. Sagan lectured, performed research, and advised graduate students at the institution from 1963 until 1968, as well as working at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, also located in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1968, Sagan was denied tenure at Harvard. He later indicated the decision was very much unexpected. The tenure denial has been blamed on several factors, including that he focused his interests too broadly across a number of areas (while the norm in academia is to become a renowned expert in a narrow specialty), and perhaps because of his well-publicized scientific advocacy, which some scientists perceived as borrowing the ideas of others for little more than self-promotion. An advisor from his years as an undergraduate student, Harold Urey, wrote a letter to the tenure committee recommending strongly against tenure for Sagan.\n\nLong before the ill-fated tenure process, Cornell University astronomer Thomas Gold had courted Sagan to move to Ithaca, New York and join the faculty at Cornell. Following the denial of tenure from Harvard, Sagan accepted Gold's offer and remained a faculty member at Cornell for nearly 30 years until his death in 1996. Unlike Harvard, the smaller and more laid-back astronomy department at Cornell welcomed Sagan's growing celebrity status. Following two years as an associate professor, Sagan became a full professor at Cornell in 1970, and directed the Laboratory for Planetary Studies there. From 1972 to 1981, he was associate director of the Center for Radiophysics and Space Research (CRSR) at Cornell. In 1976, he became the David Duncan Professor of Astronomy and Space Sciences, a position he held for the remainder of his life.\n\nSagan was associated with the U.S. space program from its inception. From the 1950s onward, he worked as an advisor to NASA, where one of his duties included briefing the Apollo astronauts before their flights to the Moon. Sagan contributed to many of the robotic spacecraft missions that explored the Solar System, arranging experiments on many of the expeditions. Sagan assembled the first physical message that was sent into space: a gold-anodized plaque, attached to the space probe \"Pioneer 10\", launched in 1972. \"Pioneer 11\", also carrying another copy of the plaque, was launched the following year. He continued to refine his designs; the most elaborate message he helped to develop and assemble was the Voyager Golden Record that was sent out with the Voyager space probes in 1977. Sagan often challenged the decisions to fund the Space Shuttle and the International Space Station at the expense of further robotic missions.\n\nFormer student David Morrison describes Sagan as \"an 'idea person' and a master of intuitive physical arguments and 'back of the envelope' calculations,\" and Gerard Kuiper said that \"Some persons work best in specializing on a major program in the laboratory; others are best in liaison between sciences. Dr. Sagan belongs in the latter group.\"\n\nSagan's contributions were central to the discovery of the high surface temperatures of the planet Venus. In the early 1960s no one knew for certain the basic conditions of Venus' surface, and Sagan listed the possibilities in a report later depicted for popularization in a Time Life book, \"Planets\". His own view was that Venus was dry and very hot as opposed to the balmy paradise others had imagined. He had investigated radio waves from Venus and concluded that there was a surface temperature of . As a visiting scientist to NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, he contributed to the first Mariner missions to Venus, working on the design and management of the project. Mariner 2 confirmed his conclusions on the surface conditions of Venus in 1962.\n\nSagan was among the first to hypothesize that Saturn's moon Titan might possess oceans of liquid compounds on its surface and that Jupiter's moon Europa might possess subsurface oceans of water. This would make Europa potentially habitable. Europa's subsurface ocean of water was later indirectly confirmed by the spacecraft \"Galileo\". The mystery of Titan's reddish haze was also solved with Sagan's help. The reddish haze was revealed to be due to complex organic molecules constantly raining down onto Titan's surface.\n\nHe further contributed insights regarding the atmospheres of Venus and Jupiter as well as seasonal changes on Mars. He also perceived global warming as a growing, man-made danger and likened it to the natural development of Venus into a hot, life-hostile planet through a kind of runaway greenhouse effect. Sagan and his Cornell colleague Edwin Ernest Salpeter speculated about life in Jupiter's clouds, given the planet's dense atmospheric composition rich in organic molecules. He studied the observed color variations on Mars' surface and concluded that they were not seasonal or vegetational changes as most believed but shifts in surface dust caused by windstorms.\n\nSagan is also known for his research on the possibilities of extraterrestrial life, including experimental demonstration of the production of amino acids from basic chemicals by radiation.\n\nHe is also the 1994 recipient of the Public Welfare Medal, the highest award of the National Academy of Sciences for \"distinguished contributions in the application of science to the public welfare\". He was denied membership in the Academy, reportedly because his media activities made him unpopular with many other scientists.\n\n, Sagan is the most cited SETI scientist and one of the most cited planetary scientists.\n\nIn 1980 Sagan co-wrote and narrated the award-winning 13-part PBS television series, \",\" which became the most widely watched series in the history of American public television. The show has been seen by at least 500 million people across 60 different countries. The book, \"Cosmos\", written by Sagan, was published to accompany the series.\n\nBecause of his earlier popularity as a science writer from his best-selling books, including \"The Dragons of Eden\", which won him a Pulitzer Prize in 1977, he was asked to write and narrate the show. It was targeted to a general audience of viewers who Sagan felt had lost interest in science, partly due to a stifled educational system.\n\nEach of the 13 episodes was created to focus on a particular subject or person, thereby demonstrating the synergy of the universe. They covered a wide range of scientific subjects including the origin of life and a perspective of humans' place on Earth.\n\nThe show won an Emmy along with a Peabody Award, and transformed Sagan from an obscure astronomer into a pop-culture icon. \"Time\" magazine ran a cover story about Sagan soon after the show broadcast, referring to him as \"creator, chief writer and host-narrator of the show. In 2000, \"Cosmos\" was released on a remastered set of DVDs.\n\nSagan was invited to frequent appearances on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\".\nAfter \"Cosmos\" aired, he became associated with the catchphrase \"billions and billions\", although he never actually used the phrase in the \"Cosmos\" series. He rather used the term \"billions \"upon\" billions.\" Carson, however, would sometimes use the phrase during his parodies of Sagan.\n\nAs a humorous tribute to Sagan and his association with the catchphrase \"billions and billions\", a \"sagan\" has been defined as a unit of measurement equivalent to a very large number – technically at least four billion (two billion plus two billion) – of anything.\n\nSagan's ability to convey his ideas allowed many people to understand the cosmos better—simultaneously emphasizing the value and worthiness of the human race, and the relative insignificance of the Earth in comparison to the Universe. He delivered the 1977 series of Royal Institution Christmas Lectures in London.\n\nSagan was a proponent of the search for extraterrestrial life. He urged the scientific community to listen with radio telescopes for signals from potential intelligent extraterrestrial life-forms. Sagan was so persuasive that by 1982 he was able to get a petition advocating SETI published in the journal \"Science\", signed by 70 scientists, including seven Nobel Prize winners. This signaled a tremendous increase in the respectability of a then-controversial field. Sagan also helped Frank Drake write the Arecibo message, a radio message beamed into space from the Arecibo radio telescope on November 16, 1974, aimed at informing potential extraterrestrials about Earth.\n\nSagan was chief technology officer of the professional planetary research journal \"Icarus\" for twelve years. He co-founded The Planetary Society, and was a member of the SETI Institute Board of Trustees. Sagan served as Chairman of the Division for Planetary Science of the American Astronomical Society, as President of the Planetology Section of the American Geophysical Union, and as Chairman of the Astronomy Section of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).\nAt the height of the Cold War, Sagan became involved in nuclear disarmament efforts by promoting hypotheses on the effects of nuclear war, when Paul Crutzen's \"Twilight at Noon\" concept suggested that a substantial nuclear exchange could trigger a nuclear twilight and upset the delicate balance of life on Earth by cooling the surface. In 1983 he was one of five authors—the \"S\"—in the follow-up \"TTAPS\" model (as the research paper came to be known), which contained the first use of the term \"nuclear winter\", which his colleague Richard P. Turco had coined. In 1984 he co-authored the book \"\" and in 1990 he co-authored the book \"A Path Where No Man Thought: Nuclear Winter and the End of the Arms Race\", which explains the nuclear winter hypothesis and advocates nuclear disarmament. Sagan received a great deal of skepticism and disdain for the use of media to disseminate a very uncertain hypothesis. In personal correspondence with Edward Teller c. 1983, although beginning amicably, with Teller expressing support for continued research to ascertain the credibility of the winter hypothesis, Sagan and Teller's correspondence would ultimately result in Teller writing \"A propagandist is one who uses incomplete information to produce maximum persuasion. I can compliment you on being, indeed, an excellent propagandist remembering that a propagandist is the better the less he appears to be one\". Biographers of Sagan would also comment that from a scientific viewpoint, nuclear winter was a low point for Sagan, although, politically speaking, it popularized his image amongst the public.\n\nSagan also wrote books to popularize science, such as \"Cosmos\", which reflected and expanded upon some of the themes of \"A Personal Voyage\" and became the best-selling science book ever published in English; \"The Dragons of Eden: Speculations on the Evolution of Human Intelligence\", which won a Pulitzer Prize; and \"Broca's Brain: Reflections on the Romance of Science\". Sagan also wrote the best-selling science fiction novel \"Contact\" in 1985, based on a film treatment he wrote with his wife in 1979, but he did not live to see the book's 1997 motion picture adaptation, which starred Jodie Foster and won the 1998 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation.\n\nSagan wrote a sequel to \"Cosmos\", \"Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space\", which was selected as a notable book of 1995 by \"The New York Times\". He appeared on PBS's \"Charlie Rose\" program in January 1995. Sagan also wrote the introduction for Stephen Hawking's bestseller, \"A Brief History of Time\". Sagan was also known for his popularization of science, his efforts to increase scientific understanding among the general public, and his positions in favor of scientific skepticism and against pseudoscience, such as his debunking of the Betty and Barney Hill abduction. To mark the tenth anniversary of Sagan's death, David Morrison, a former student of Sagan's, recalled \"Sagan's immense contributions to planetary research, the public understanding of science, and the skeptical movement\" in \"Skeptical Inquirer\".\n\nFollowing Saddam Hussein's threats to light Kuwait's oil wells on fire in response to any physical challenge to Iraqi control of the oil assets, Sagan together with his \"TTAPS\" colleagues and Paul Crutzen, warned in January 1991 in the \"Baltimore Sun\" and \"Wilmington Morning Star\" newspapers that if the fires were left to burn over a period of several months, enough smoke from the 600 or so 1991 Kuwaiti oil fires \"might get so high as to disrupt agriculture in much of South Asia ...\" and that this possibility should \"affect the war plans\"; these claims were also the subject of a televised debate between Sagan and physicist Fred Singer on 22 January, aired on the ABC News program \"Nightline\". In the televised debate, Sagan argued that the effects of the smoke would be similar to the effects of a nuclear winter, with Singer arguing to the contrary. After the debate, the fires burnt for many months before extinguishing efforts were complete. The results of the smoke did not produce continental-sized cooling. Sagan later conceded in \"The Demon-Haunted World\" that the prediction did not turn out to be correct: \"it \"was\" pitch black at noon and temperatures dropped 4°–6° C over the Persian Gulf, but not much smoke reached stratospheric altitudes and Asia was spared\".\n\nIn his later years Sagan advocated the creation of an organized search for asteroids/near-Earth objects (NEOs) that might impact the Earth but to forestall or postpone developing the technological methods that would be needed to defend against them. He argued that all of the numerous methods proposed to alter the orbit of an asteroid, including the employment of nuclear detonations, created a Deflection Dilemma: if the ability to deflect an asteroid away from the Earth exists, then one would also have the ability to divert a non-threatening object towards Earth, creating an immensely destructive weapon. In a 1994 paper he co-authored, he ridiculed a 3-day long \"Near-Earth Object Interception Workshop\" held by Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) in 1993 that did not, \"even in passing\" state that such interception and deflection technologies could have these \"ancillary dangers\".\n\nSagan remained hopeful that the natural NEO impact threat, and the intrinsically double-edged essence of the methods to prevent these threats, would serve as a \"new and potent motivation to maturing international relations\". Later acknowledging that, with sufficient international oversight, in the future a \"work our way up\" approach to implementing nuclear explosive deflection methods could be fielded, and when sufficient knowledge was gained, to use them to aid in mining asteroids. His interest in the use of nuclear detonations in space grew out of his work in 1958 for the Armour Research Foundation's Project A119, concerning the possibility of detonating a nuclear device on the lunar surface.\n\nSagan was a critic of Plato, having said of the ancient Greek philosopher: \"Science and mathematics were to be removed from the hands of the merchants and the artisans. This tendency found its most effective advocate in a follower of Pythagoras named Plato\" and He (Plato) believed that ideas were far more real than the natural world. He advised the astronomers not to waste their time observing the stars and planets. It was better, he believed, just to think about them. Plato expressed hostility to observation and experiment. He taught contempt for the real world and disdain for the practical application of scientific knowledge. Plato's followers succeeded in extinguishing the light of science and experiment that had been kindled by Democritus and the other Ionians.\n\nSpeaking about his activities in popularizing science, Sagan said that there were at least two reasons for scientists to share the purposes of science and its contemporary state. Simple self-interest was one: much of the funding for science came from the public, and the public therefore had the right to know how the money was being spent. If scientists increased public admiration for science, there was a good chance of having more public supporters. The other reason was the excitement of communicating one's own excitement about science to others.\n\nWhile Sagan was widely adored by the general public, his reputation in the scientific community was more polarized. Critics sometimes characterized his work as fanciful, non-rigorous, and self-aggrandizing, and others complained in his later years that he neglected his role as a faculty member to foster his celebrity status.\n\nOne of Sagan's harshest critics, Harold Urey, felt that Sagan was getting too much publicity for a scientist and was treating some scientific theories too casually. Urey and Sagan were said to have different philosophies of science, according to Davidson. While Urey was an \"old-time empiricist\" who avoided theorizing about the unknown, Sagan was by contrast willing to speculate openly about such matters. Fred Whipple wanted Harvard to keep Sagan there, but learned that because Urey was a Nobel laureate, his opinion was an important factor in Harvard denying Sagan tenure.\n\nSagan's Harvard friend Lester Grinspoon also stated, \"I know Harvard well enough to know there are people there who certainly do not like people who are outspoken.\" Grinspoon added:\nSome, like Urey, later came to realize Sagan's popular brand of scientific advocacy was beneficial to the science as a whole. Urey especially liked Sagan's 1977 book, \"The Dragons of Eden\", and wrote Sagan with his opinion: \"I like it very much and am amazed that someone like you has such an intimate knowledge of the various features of the problem...I congratulate you...You are a man of many talents.\"\n\nSagan was accused of borrowing some ideas of others for his own benefit, and countered these claims by explaining that the misappropriation was an unfortunate side effect of his role as a science communicator and explainer, and that he attempted to give proper credit whenever possible.\n\nSagan believed that the Drake equation, on substitution of reasonable estimates, suggested that a large number of extraterrestrial civilizations would form, but that the lack of evidence of such civilizations highlighted by the Fermi paradox suggests technological civilizations tend to self-destruct. This stimulated his interest in identifying and publicizing ways that humanity could destroy itself, with the hope of avoiding such a cataclysm and eventually becoming a spacefaring species. Sagan's deep concern regarding the potential destruction of human civilization in a nuclear holocaust was conveyed in a memorable cinematic sequence in the final episode of \"Cosmos\", called \"Who Speaks for Earth?\" Sagan had already resigned from the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board's UFO investigating Condon Committee and voluntarily surrendered his top secret clearance in protest over the Vietnam War. Following his marriage to his third wife (novelist Ann Druyan) in June 1981, Sagan became more politically active—particularly in opposing escalation of the nuclear arms race under President Ronald Reagan.\n\nIn March 1983, Reagan announced the Strategic Defense Initiative—a multibillion-dollar project to develop a comprehensive defense against attack by nuclear missiles, which was quickly dubbed the \"Star Wars\" program. Sagan spoke out against the project, arguing that it was technically impossible to develop a system with the level of perfection required, and far more expensive to build such a system than it would be for an enemy to defeat it through decoys and other means—and that its construction would seriously destabilize the \"nuclear balance\" between the United States and the Soviet Union, making further progress toward nuclear disarmament impossible.\n\nWhen Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev declared a unilateral moratorium on the testing of nuclear weapons, which would begin on August 6, 1985—the 40th anniversary of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima—the Reagan administration dismissed the dramatic move as nothing more than propaganda, and refused to follow suit. In response, US anti-nuclear and peace activists staged a series of protest actions at the Nevada Test Site, beginning on Easter Sunday in 1986 and continuing through 1987. Hundreds of people in the \"Nevada Desert Experience\" group were arrested, including Sagan, who was arrested on two separate occasions as he climbed over a chain-link fence at the test site during the underground Operation Charioteer and United States's Musketeer nuclear test series of detonations.\n\nSagan was also a vocal advocate of the controversial notion of testosterone poisoning, arguing in 1992 that human males could become gripped by an \"unusually severe [case of] testosterone poisoning\" and this could compel them to become genocidal. In his review of Moondance magazine writer Daniela Gioseffi's 1990 book \"Women on War\", he argues that females are the only half of humanity \"untainted by testosterone poisoning\".<nowiki> </nowiki> One chapter of his 1993 book, \"Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors\" is dedicated to testosterone and its alleged poisonous effects.\n\nSagan was married three times. In 1957, he married biologist Lynn Margulis. The couple had two children, Jeremy and Dorion Sagan. After Carl Sagan and Margulis divorced, he married artist Linda Salzman in 1968 and they also had a child together, Nick Sagan. During these marriages, Carl Sagan focused heavily on his career, a factor which may have contributed to Sagan's first divorce. In 1981, Sagan married author Ann Druyan and they later had two children, Alexandra and Samuel Sagan. Carl Sagan and Druyan remained married until his death in 1996. He lived in an Egyptian revival house in Ithaca perched on the edge of a cliff that had formerly been the headquarters of a Cornell secret society.\n\nIsaac Asimov described Sagan as one of only two people he ever met whose intellect surpassed his own. The other, he claimed, was the computer scientist and artificial intelligence expert Marvin Minsky.\n\nSagan wrote frequently about religion and the relationship between religion and science, expressing his skepticism about the conventional conceptualization of God as a sapient being. For example: Some people think God is an outsized, light-skinned male with a long white beard, sitting on a throne somewhere up there in the sky, busily tallying the fall of every sparrow. Others—for example Baruch Spinoza and Albert Einstein—considered God to be essentially the sum total of the physical laws which describe the universe. I do not know of any compelling evidence for anthropomorphic patriarchs controlling human destiny from some hidden celestial vantage point, but it would be madness to deny the existence of physical laws.\n\nIn another description of his view on the concept of God, Sagan emphatically wrote: The idea that God is an oversized white male with a flowing beard who sits in the sky and tallies the fall of every sparrow is ludicrous. But if by God one means the set of physical laws that govern the universe, then clearly there is such a God. This God is emotionally unsatisfying ... it does not make much sense to pray to the law of gravity.\n\nOn atheism, Sagan commented in 1981: An atheist is someone who is certain that God does not exist, someone who has compelling evidence against the existence of God. I know of no such compelling evidence. Because God can be relegated to remote times and places and to ultimate causes, we would have to know a great deal more about the universe than we do now to be sure that no such God exists. To be certain of the existence of God and to be certain of the nonexistence of God seem to me to be the confident extremes in a subject so riddled with doubt and uncertainty as to inspire very little confidence indeed.\n\nSagan also commented on Christianity and the Jefferson Bible, stating \"My long-time view about Christianity is that it represents an amalgam of two seemingly immiscible parts, the religion of Jesus and the religion of Paul. Thomas Jefferson attempted to excise the Pauline parts of the New Testament. There wasn't much left when he was done, but it was an inspiring document.\"\n\nRegarding spirituality and its relationship with science, Sagan stated: 'Spirit' comes from the Latin word 'to breathe'. What we breathe is air, which is certainly matter, however thin. Despite usage to the contrary, there is no necessary implication in the word 'spiritual' that we are talking of anything other than matter (including the matter of which the brain is made), or anything\noutside the realm of science. On occasion, I will feel free to use the word. Science is not only compatible with spirituality; it is a profound source of spirituality. When we recognize our place in an immensity of light-years and in the passage of ages, when we grasp the intricacy, beauty, and subtlety of life, then that soaring feeling, that sense of elation and humility combined, is surely spiritual.\n\nAn environmental appeal, \"Preserving and Cherishing the Earth\", signed by Sagan with other noted scientists in January 1990, stated that \"The historical record makes clear that religious teaching, example, and leadership are powerfully able to influence personal conduct and commitment... Thus, there is a vital role for religion and science.\"\n\nIn reply to a question in 1996 about his religious beliefs, Sagan answered, \"I'm agnostic.\" Sagan maintained that the idea of a creator God of the Universe was difficult to prove or disprove and that the only conceivable scientific discovery that could challenge it would be an infinitely old universe. Sagan's views on religion have been interpreted as a form of pantheism comparable to Einstein's belief in Spinoza's God. His son, Dorion Sagan said, \"My father believed in the God of Spinoza and Einstein, God not behind nature but as nature, equivalent to it.\" His last wife, Ann Druyan, stated: When my husband died, because he was so famous and known for not being a believer, many people would come up to me—it still sometimes happens—and ask me if Carl changed at the end and converted to a belief in an afterlife. They also frequently ask me if I think I will see him again. Carl faced his death with unflagging courage and never sought refuge in illusions. The tragedy was that we knew we would never see each other again. I don't ever expect to be reunited with Carl.\n\nIn 2006, Ann Druyan edited Sagan's 1985 Glasgow \"Gifford Lectures in Natural Theology\" into a book, \"\", in which he elaborates on his views of divinity in the natural world.\n\nSagan is also widely regarded as a freethinker or skeptic; one of his most famous quotations, in \"Cosmos\", was, \"Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence\" (called the \"Sagan standard\" by some). This was based on a nearly identical statement by fellow founder of the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal, Marcello Truzzi, \"An extraordinary claim requires extraordinary proof.\" This idea had been earlier aphorized in Théodore Flournoy's work \"From India to the Planet Mars\" (1899) from a longer quote by Pierre-Simon Laplace (1749–1827), a French mathematician and astronomer, as the Principle of Laplace: \"The weight of the evidence should be proportioned to the strangeness of the facts.\"\n\nLate in his life, Sagan's books elaborated on his skeptical, naturalistic view of the world. In \"The Demon-Haunted World\", he presented tools for testing arguments and detecting fallacious or fraudulent ones, essentially advocating wide use of critical thinking and the scientific method. The compilation \"Billions and Billions: Thoughts on Life and Death at the Brink of the Millennium\", published in 1997 after Sagan's death, contains essays written by Sagan, such as his views on abortion, and his widow Ann Druyan's account of his death as a skeptic, agnostic, and freethinker.\n\nSagan warned against humans' tendency towards anthropocentrism. He was the faculty adviser for the Cornell Students for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. In the \"Cosmos\" chapter \"Blues For a Red Planet\", Sagan wrote, \"If there is life on Mars, I believe we should do nothing with Mars. Mars then belongs to the Martians, even if the Martians are only microbes.\"\n\nSagan was a user and advocate of marijuana. Under the pseudonym \"Mr. X\", he contributed an essay about smoking cannabis to the 1971 book \"Marihuana Reconsidered\". The essay explained that marijuana use had helped to inspire some of Sagan's works and enhance sensual and intellectual experiences. After Sagan's death, his friend Lester Grinspoon disclosed this information to Sagan's biographer, Keay Davidson. The publishing of the biography, \"Carl Sagan: A Life\", in 1999 brought media attention to this aspect of Sagan's life. Not long after his death, widow Ann Druyan had gone on to preside over the board of directors of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML), a non-profit organization dedicated to reforming cannabis laws.\n\nIn 1994, engineers at Apple Computer code-named the Power Macintosh 7100 \"Carl Sagan\" in the hope that Apple would make \"billions and billions\" with the sale of the PowerMac 7100. The name was only used internally, but Sagan was concerned that it would become a product endorsement and sent Apple a cease-and-desist letter. Apple complied, but engineers retaliated by changing the internal codename to \"BHA\" for \"Butt-Head Astronomer\". Sagan then sued Apple for libel in federal court. The court granted Apple's motion to dismiss Sagan's claims and opined in dicta that a reader aware of the context would understand Apple was \"clearly attempting to retaliate in a humorous and satirical way\", and that \"It strains reason to conclude that Defendant was attempting to criticize Plaintiff's reputation or competency as an astronomer. One does not seriously attack the expertise of a scientist using the undefined phrase 'butt-head'.\" Sagan then sued for Apple's original use of his name and likeness, but again lost. Sagan appealed the ruling. In November 1995, an out-of-court settlement was reached and Apple's office of trademarks and patents released a conciliatory statement that \"Apple has always had great respect for Dr. Sagan. It was never Apple's intention to cause Dr. Sagan or his family any embarrassment or concern.\" Apple's third and final code name for the project was \"LAW\", short for \"Lawyers are Wimps\".\n\nSagan briefly served as an adviser on Stanley Kubrick's film \"\". Sagan proposed that the film suggest, rather than depict, extraterrestrial superintelligence.\n\nIn 1947, the year that inaugurated the \"flying saucer\" craze, the young Sagan suspected the \"discs\" might be alien spaceships.\n\nSagan's interest in UFO reports prompted him on August 3, 1952, to write a letter to U.S. Secretary of State Dean Acheson to ask how the United States would respond if flying saucers turned out to be extraterrestrial. He later had several conversations on the subject in 1964 with Jacques Vallée. Though quite skeptical of any extraordinary answer to the UFO question, Sagan thought scientists should study the phenomenon, at least because there was widespread public interest in UFO reports.\n\nStuart Appelle notes that Sagan \"wrote frequently on what he perceived as the logical and empirical fallacies regarding UFOs and the abduction experience. Sagan rejected an extraterrestrial explanation for the phenomenon but felt there were both empirical and pedagogical benefits for examining UFO reports and that the subject was, therefore, a legitimate topic of study.\"\n\nIn 1966 Sagan was a member of the Ad Hoc Committee to Review Project Blue Book, the U.S. Air Force's UFO investigation project. The committee concluded Blue Book had been lacking as a scientific study, and recommended a university-based project to give the UFO phenomenon closer scientific scrutiny. The result was the Condon Committee (1966–68), led by physicist Edward Condon, and in their final report they formally concluded that UFOs, regardless of what any of them actually were, did not behave in a manner consistent with a threat to national security.\n\nSociologist Ron Westrum writes that \"The high point of Sagan's treatment of the UFO question was the AAAS' symposium in 1969. A wide range of educated opinions on the subject were offered by participants, including not only proponents such as James McDonald and J. Allen Hynek but also skeptics like astronomers William Hartmann and Donald Menzel. The roster of speakers was balanced, and it is to Sagan's credit that this event was presented in spite of pressure from Edward Condon.\" With physicist Thornton Page, Sagan edited the lectures and discussions given at the symposium; these were published in 1972 as \"UFO's: A Scientific Debate\". Some of Sagan's many books examine UFOs (as did one episode of \"Cosmos\") and he claimed a religious undercurrent to the phenomenon.\n\nSagan again revealed his views on interstellar travel in his 1980 \"Cosmos\" series. In one of his last written works, Sagan argued that the chances of extraterrestrial spacecraft visiting Earth are vanishingly small. However, Sagan did think it plausible that Cold War concerns contributed to governments misleading their citizens about UFOs, and wrote that \"some UFO reports and analyses, and perhaps voluminous files, have been made inaccessible to the public which pays the bills ... It's time for the files to be declassified and made generally available.\" He cautioned against jumping to conclusions about suppressed UFO data and stressed that there was no strong evidence that aliens were visiting the Earth either in the past or present.\n\nSagan's contribution to the 1969 symposium was an attack on the belief that UFOs are piloted by extraterrestrial beings: Applying several logical assumptions (see Drake equation), Sagan calculated the possible number of advanced civilizations capable of interstellar travel to be about one million. He projected that any civilization wishing to check on all the others on a regular basis of, say, once a year would have to launch 10,000 spacecraft annually. Not only does that seem like an unreasonable number of launchings, but it would take all the material in one percent of the universe's stars to produce all the spaceships needed for all the civilizations to seek each other out.\n\nTo argue that the Earth was being chosen for regular visitations, Sagan said, one would have to assume that the planet is somehow unique. And that assumption \"goes exactly against the idea that there are lots of civilizations around. Because if there are then our sort of civilization must be pretty common. And if we're not pretty common then there aren't going to be many civilizations advanced enough to send visitors.\"\n\nThis argument, which some called \"Sagan's paradox,\" helped to establish a new school of thought: the belief that extraterrestrial life exists but has nothing to do with UFOs. The new belief had a salutary effect on UFO studies. It helped separate researchers who wanted to identify unidentified flying objects from those who wanted to identify their pilots. And it gave scientists opportunities to search the universe for intelligent life unencumbered by the stigma associated with UFOs.\n\nAfter suffering from myelodysplasia for two years, and receiving three bone marrow transplants from his sister Carol, Sagan died of pneumonia at the age of 62, at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, Washington, in the early morning of December 20, 1996.\nBurial took place at Lakeview Cemetery in Ithaca, New York.\n\nThe 1997 movie \"Contact\", based on Sagan's novel of the same name and finished after his death, ends with the dedication \"For Carl\". His photo can also be seen at 59:23 in the film.\n\nIn 1997 the Sagan Planet Walk was opened in Ithaca, New York. It is a walking-scale model of the Solar System, extending 1.2 km from the center of The Commons in downtown Ithaca to the Sciencenter, a hands-on museum. The exhibition was created in memory of Carl Sagan, who was an Ithaca resident and Cornell Professor. Professor Sagan had been a founding member of the museum's advisory board.\n\nThe landing site of the unmanned \"Mars Pathfinder\" spacecraft was renamed the Carl Sagan Memorial Station on July 5, 1997. Asteroid 2709 Sagan is named in his honor, as is the Carl Sagan Institute for the search of habitable planets.\n\nSagan's son, Nick Sagan, wrote several episodes in the \"Star Trek\" franchise. In an episode of \"\" entitled \"Terra Prime\", a quick shot is shown of the relic rover \"Sojourner\", part of the \"Mars Pathfinder\" mission, placed by a historical marker at Carl Sagan Memorial Station on the Martian surface. The marker displays a quote from Sagan: \"Whatever the reason you're on Mars, I'm glad you're there, and I wish I was with you.\" Sagan's student Steve Squyres led the team that landed the rovers \"Spirit\" and \"Opportunity\" successfully on Mars in 2004.\n\nOn November 9, 2001, on what would have been Sagan's 67th birthday, the Ames Research Center dedicated the site for the Carl Sagan Center for the Study of Life in the Cosmos. \"Carl was an incredible visionary, and now his legacy can be preserved and advanced by a 21st century research and education laboratory committed to enhancing our understanding of life in the universe and furthering the cause of space exploration for all time\", said NASA Administrator Daniel Goldin. Ann Druyan was at the Center as it opened its doors on October 22, 2006.\n\nSagan has at least three awards named in his honor:\n\nAugust 2007 the Independent Investigations Group (IIG) awarded Sagan posthumously a Lifetime Achievement Award. This honor has also been awarded to Harry Houdini and James Randi.\n\nBeginning in 2009, a musical project known as Symphony of Science sampled several excerpts of Sagan from his series \"Cosmos\" and remixed them to electronic music. To date, the videos have received over 21 million views worldwide on YouTube.\n\nThe 2014 Swedish science fiction short film \"Wanderers\" uses excerpts of Sagan's narration of his book \"Pale Blue Dot\", played over digitally-created visuals of humanity's possible future expansion into outer space.\n\nIn February 2015, the Finnish-based symphonic metal band Nightwish released the song \"Sagan\" as a non-album bonus track for their single \"Élan\". The song, written by the band's songwriter/composer/keyboardist Tuomas Holopainen, is an homage to the life and work of the late Carl Sagan.\n\nIn August 2015, it was announced that a biopic of Sagan's life was being planned by Warner Bros.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "25544323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25544323", "title": "Chari-Dhand Wetland Conservation Reserve", "text": "Chari-Dhand Wetland Conservation Reserve\n\nThe Chari-Dhand wetland conservation reserve is located on the edge of arid Banni grasslands and the marshy salt flats of the Rann of Kutch in Kutch District, Gujarat State in India. It is currently legally protected under the status as a Protected or Reserve Forest in India. Chari means salt affected and Dhand means shallow wetland, Dhand is a Sindhi word for a shallow saucer shaped depression. This is a seasonal desert wetland and only gets swampy during a good monsoon, receiving water from the north flowing rivers as well as from the huge catchment areas of many surrounding big hills. It is spread over an area of 80 km. It is in Nakhtrana Taluka, 80 km south west to the city of Bhuj, about 7 or 8 km from Fulary village and 30 km from Nakhtrana town. It is home to nearly two lakh birds with migratory and endangered species of birds flocking into the area in thousands during monsoon and winters.\n\nThe Gujarat State forest department had originally proposed that Chari Dhandh be declared as the \"\"Kutch bird sanctuary\" because its much bigger in size than the famous Bharatpur Bird Sanctuary in neighbouring state of Rajasthan. The Gujarat state Wildlife Board agreed to the demand on 26 June 2002, but later it was decided to accord Chari-Dhand wetland the status of a \"conservation forest\"\", as it would be of greater benefit to the local populace.\n\nThe wetland was originally spread over 22,700 hectares (227 km), out of which 80 km was the water filled area. Gujarat State Forest Department has accorded it the legal status of a \"Protected or Reserve Forest\" in 2008 after 20 year lobbying by local conservationists.\n\nThe abundance of water during the monsoons attracts birds to this one of India's unique wasteland. Thousands of flamingos in their mating plumage, Common cranes and other wetland birds including hundreds of Painted storks and Spoonbills among others can be spotted here. The wetland also attracts chinkara, wolves, caracal, desert cats and desert foxes besides endangered birds.\n\nThere are also efforts to replace alien invasive Gando Bawal thorn tree \"(Prosopis juliflora)\" with useful trees like Khara \"(Salvadora oleoides)\" and Mitha pilus \"(Salvadora persica)\" on the periphery of the Chari lake as part of the new conservation measures.\n\nBombay Natural History Society (BNHS) had its field station at Chhari-Dhand in Banni grasslands from Jan 1990 to 1995 for the Bird Migration study project (S.A. Hussain) and grassland ecology project headed by Dr. Asad Rahmani. It now organizes \"Nature Education Camps\" here.\n\nAlong with Banni Grasslands Reserve it is a proposed \"Ramsar Convention site - Wetland of International importance\" and listed on its website.\n\nThe district administration has chosen the Chari Dhandh wetland to create basic facilities for tourists. The Gujarat State forest department is preparing a project for Chari Dhandh development along with Dhinodhar hills in Nakhatrana taluka to make a circuit comprising Dhorado in interior Banni, Chari Dhandh and Dhinodhar to be a scenic route for nature lovers. As it is shallow water body, it could be used to promote boating providing employment to the local people, whose main activity has been restricted to fishing till now. There is also a suggestion to set up a Nature Interpretation Centre at the nearby Fulary village, the centre will provide knowledge of the wetland to the tourists.\n\nIn dark nights an unexplained strange dancing light phenomena known locally as Chir Batti (Ghost lights) is known to occur here, in the banni grasslands and its seasonal marshy wetlands and in the adjoining desert of the marshy salt flats of Rann of Kutch.\n\nFrom the city of Bhuj various ecologically rich and wildlife conservation areas of the Kutch / Kachchh district can be visited such as Indian Wild Ass Sanctuary, Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary, Narayan Sarovar Sanctuary, Kutch Bustard Sanctuary, Banni Grasslands Reserve and Chari-Dhand Wetland Conservation Reserve etc..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3115000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3115000", "title": "Chilcotin Plateau", "text": "Chilcotin Plateau\n\nThe Chilcotin Plateau is part of the Fraser Plateau, a major subdivision of the Interior Plateau of British Columbia. The Chilcotin Plateau is physically near-identical with the region of the same name, i.e. \"the Chilcotin\", which lies between the Fraser River and the southern Coast Mountains and is defined by the basin of the Chilcotin River and so includes montane areas beyond the plateau. East of the Chilcotin Plateau, across the Fraser River, is the Cariboo Plateau, while to the north beyond the West Road (Blackwater) River is the Nechako Plateau. West and south of the Chilcotin Plateau are various subdivisions of the Coast Mountains, including the Chilcotin Ranges which lie along the plateau's southwest.\n\nIncluded within the definition of the Chilcotin Plateau are the Rainbow Range, near Bella Coola and the similarly volcanic Ilgachuz Range and Itcha Range both of which are major shield volcanoes. The Camelsfoot Range, north of Lillooet, is included in the Chilcotin Plateau by some systems of classification.\n\nThe plateau is nearly entirely drained by the Chilcotin River and its tributaries, the largest of which are the Chilanko and Chilko Rivers. Also draining the plateau on its eastern edge is Churn Creek, which forms the east flank of the Camelsfoot Range and enters the Fraser directly. On the west side of the plateau, the basins of the Dean, Homathko and Atnarko Rivers penetrate the massifs of the Coast Mountains and have their beginnings, or the early part of their courses, on the Chilcotin Plateau.\n\nThe Chilcotin Plateau consists of basaltic lava of the Chilcotin Group, a group of related volcanic rocks that is nearly parallel with the Fraser Plateau. It extends along the adjacent Garibaldi Volcanic Belt in the Coast Mountains. Volcanism of the Chilcotin Plateau is considered to be a result of extension of the crust behind the coastal Cascadia subduction zone.\n\n"}
{"id": "28850335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28850335", "title": "Curite", "text": "Curite\n\nCurite is a lead uranium oxide mineral with formula: Pb(UO)O(OH)·3(HO). It is named after the physicists Marie and Pierre Curie, who are both known for their work on radioactivity. The type locality is the Shinkolobwe Mine.\n"}
{"id": "10484701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10484701", "title": "Delabar State Park", "text": "Delabar State Park\n\nDelabar State Park is an Illinois state park on in Henderson County, Illinois, United States. Two brothers, Roy and Jack Delabar donated the site of the park in 1959. The park was named after the two brothers, and officially opened in 1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "1745391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1745391", "title": "East Melanesian Islands", "text": "East Melanesian Islands\n\nThe East Melanesian Islands, also known as the Solomons-Vanuatu-Bismarck moist forests, is a biogeographic region in the Melanesia region of Oceania.\n\nIt is notable for its unique flora and fauna and species richness. \n\nThe region is designated a biodiversity hotspot by Conservation International (CI), and one of the outstanding Global 200 ecoregions by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). \n\nAs defined by CI, the hotspot lies east and northeast of New Guinea and encompasses some 1,600 islands with a land area of nearly 100,000 km², including the Bismarck Archipelago, Admiralty Islands, Solomon Islands, and the islands of Vanuatu. \n\nPolitically, the hotspot includes parts of Papua New Guinea (the Bismarck Archipelago, Admiralty Islands, and Bougainville Island), and all of the Solomon Islands and Vanuatu.\n\nThe East Melanesian Islands have many plants and some animals whose ancestors arrived from neighboring New Guinea and New Caledonia, but differ from those islands in that they were never joined to a continent.\n\nThis hotspot includes a number of ecoregions that make up the northeastern portion of the Australasia ecozone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7840300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7840300", "title": "Global Ocean Ecosystem Dynamics", "text": "Global Ocean Ecosystem Dynamics\n\nGlobal Ocean Ecosystem Dynamics (GLOBEC) is the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme (IGBP) core project responsible for understanding how global change will affect the abundance, diversity and productivity of marine populations. The programme was initiated by SCOR and the IOC of UNESCO in 1991, to understand how global change will affect the abundance, diversity and productivity of marine populations comprising a major component of oceanic ecosystems.\n\nThe aim of GLOBEC is to advance our understanding of the structure and functioning of the global ocean ecosystem, its major subsystems, and its response to physical forcing so that a capability can be developed to forecast the responses of the marine ecosystem to global change.\n\nGLOBEC encompasses an integrated suite of research activities consisting of Regional Programmes, National Activities and cross-cutting research focal activities. The GLOBEC programme has been developed by the Scientific Steering Committee (SSC) and is co-ordinated through the GLOBEC International Project Office (IPO).\n\nRegional Programmes:\n\nNational Programmes:\n\nGLOBEC has several active national programmes and scientists from nearly 30 countries participate in GLOBEC activities on a national or regional level.\n\nFocus Working Groups:\n\nThere are four GLOBEC cross-cutting research focal activities:\n\nGLOBEC produces a report series, special contributions series and a biannual newsletter, all of which can be downloaded from the GLOBEC website. GLOBEC science has contributed to over 2000 refereed scientific publications which can be searched from a database on the GLOBEC website.\n\nRecent GLOBEC Reports:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46900125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46900125", "title": "Global production network", "text": "Global production network\n\nGlobal Production Networks (GPN) is a concept in developmental literature which refers to \"the nexus of interconnected functions, operations and transactions through which a specific product or service is produced, distributed and consumed.\"\n\nA global production network is one whose interconnected nodes and links extend spatially across national boundaries and, in so doing, integrates parts of disparate national and subnational territories\". GPN frameworks combines the insights from the global value chain analysis, actor–network theory and literature on Varieties of Capitalism. GPN provides a relational framework that aims to encompass all the relevant actors in the production systems. GPN framework provides analytical platform that relates sub-national regional development with clustering dynamics.\n\nIn 1990s the concept of value chain gained its credit among economists and business scholars. (Its prominent developer Michael Porter). The concept combined sequenced and interconnected activities in the process of value creation. Value chain concept focused on business activities, but not on the corporate power and institutional context. In 1994 Garry Gereffi, together with Miguel Korzeniewicz introduced the concept of Global Commodity Chains (GCC):\n\nAt the beginning of 2000s a group of authors Jeffrey Henderson, Peter Dicken, Martin Hess, Neil Coe and Henry Wai-Chung Yeung, introduced GPN framework, that builds on the development of previous approaches to international production processes. At the same time it expands beyond the linearity of GCC approach to incorporate all kinds of network configuration. Adopting clear network perspective allows to embrace the complexity of multidimensional layers of production moving beyond the \"linear progression of the product or service\"\n\nAnalysis of the global production networks relies on the use of the input-output tables that links firms through the transactions involved in the product creation. Commodity chain literature considers firms as the nodes in a number of chains that transform inputs into outputs through a series of interconnected stages of production, later linked to distribution and consumption activities. Andersen and Christensen define five major types of connective nodes in supply networks: Local integrator, Export base, Import base, International spanner and Global integrator Hobday et al. argue that the core capability of the firms stem from their ability to manage network of components and subsystem suppliers.\n\nTo capture both vertical and horizontal links across the sequence of production process, Lazzarini introduced the concept of Netchain: \"a set of networks horizontal ties between firms within a particular industry or group, which are sequentially arranged based on vertical ties between firms in different layers ... Netchain analysis explicitly differentiates between horizontal (transactions in the same layer) and vertical ties (transactions between layers), mapping how agents in each layer are related to each other and to agents in other layers\". Critical studies have explored production networks in the domain of ethics of production, for instance focusing on local effects or labor relations.\n"}
{"id": "10242236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10242236", "title": "Grate firing", "text": "Grate firing\n\nGrate firing was the first combustion system used for solid fuels. It now is used mainly for burning waste and biomass, but also for smaller coal furnaces.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe grate area is the area of the grate (length x width). The larger the grate area, the more fuel can be burned per hour. The amount of fuel burned also depends on the fuel or bed movement velocity.\n\n"}
{"id": "56505885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56505885", "title": "Hesione (Oceanid)", "text": "Hesione (Oceanid)\n\nAccording to the 6th century BC mythographer Acusilaus, Hesione (; Ancient Greek: Ἡσιονη) was the daughter of Oceanus, the wife of Prometheus and the mother of Deucalion. That she was a daughter of Oceanus and wife of Prometheus, was also repeated in Aeschylus' \"Prometheus Bound\". She may be identical to Pronoia (means \"care\" or \"forethought\") who was given as Deucalion's mother according to various sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "12715149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12715149", "title": "Irish Sea Glacier", "text": "Irish Sea Glacier\n\nThe Irish Sea Glacier was a huge glacier during the Pleistocene Ice Age that, probably on more than one occasion, flowed southwards from its source areas in Scotland and Ireland and across the Isle of Man, Anglesey and Pembrokeshire. It probably reached its maximum extent during the Anglian Glaciation, and it was also extensive during the Late Devensian Glaciation (or Last Glacial Maximum).\n\nIt was the only clearly defined major glacier in the Irish Sea and flowed about 700 km from its source areas to its southernmost margin. It is sometimes referred to as an “ice stream” since it appears to have been constrained not by ice-free land areas but by highlands which were themselves buried beneath ice. At the time of its maximum extent the glacier extended all the way to the coasts of Somerset and Cornwall, along the south coast of Ireland, and even reached the Isles of Scilly.\n\nIt was forced through a relatively narrow constriction in St George's Channel by ice flowing from the Irish Ice Cap (to the west) and the Welsh Ice Cap (to the east). At one point the glacier was probably no more than 80 km wide.\n\nOnce through this constriction, in the Anglian Glaciation, the ice spread out into a great lobe, in the area now occupied by the Celtic Sea and the approaches to the Bristol Channel. On the eastern flank of the glacier, the evidence of striations, glacial deposits and \"erratic trains\" shows that the edge of the Irish Sea Glacier was pushed southwards by ice coming from the Welsh ice cap on the Brecon Beacons, so that Irish Sea ice flowed parallel with the coast of South Wales and then came into contact with the English coast around the Somerset Levels, between Exmoor and the Mendips. It is not known how far inland this ice extended, but there are scattered glacial deposits in the Bridgwater - Glastonbury district—these may mark the easternmost extent of the glacier. On its western flank the Irish Sea Glacier reached Cork Harbour. The maximum width of this great ice lobe was more than 320 km. \"Old\" glacial deposits in South wales and in Pembrokeshire are still not accurately dated.\nCurrently there is a great debate about the dating of the Devensian glaciation of the Isles of Scilly. The ice of the Irish Sea Glacier certainly pressed against the northern coasts of the islands, and accumulating evidence seems to show that this occurred some time after 24,000 years ago. During this same glacial episode the ice of the Irish Sea Glacier also swept along the southern Irish coast as far west as Cork, and reached its outer limit about 100 km to the SW of the Isles of Scilly. Research suggests that the ice was everywhere grounded and not floating; this is consistent with the view that sea-level at the LGM was around 120m lower than it is today. Even further out in the southwest approaches, the ice edge was floating and calving. One current theory is that the glacier moved to its outermost position by a \"lobate surge partially propagated by high porewater pressures within deformable marine substrate\", leaving parts of South Wales, the Bristol Channel and the coasts of SW England free of glacier ice.\n\nHowever, glaciers have to behave according to the laws of ice physics, and a long narrow lobate surge with a flat long profile would be difficult to explain. Tightly confined \"valley glaciers\" do not exist on open tundra situations (such as this must have been at the time)especially if the glacier bed rises southwards. Glacier ice in those circumstances must have \"backed up\" and spread sideways. It is most likely that when the Irish Sea Glacier reached its southernmost extent, the glacier surface must have been at c 2,000m in St George’s Channel, c 2,250m over the Isle of Anglesey, and c 2,500m over the Isle of Man. It follows that the mountains of Wales and Eastern Ireland must also have been submerged beneath thick glacier ice at the time. Furthermore, the Bristol Channel is most likely to have been ice-filled at the LGM, as indicated on the adjoining map.\n\nRecent work suggests that the area outside the South Ireland End Moraine was inundated by Irish Ice during and after the LGM. At the same time parts of the area outside the South Wales End Moraine must also have been inundated by ice.\n\nAnother puzzle is the extent to which the long profile of the Irish Sea Glacier, at the time of its maximum extent, approximated to the classic equilibrium profile. Work in analogous situations in Marie Byrd Land, Antarctica, suggests that the ice surface altitude over the mountains might have been around 800m lower than predicted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1300322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1300322", "title": "J002E3", "text": "J002E3\n\nJ002E3 is the designation given to an object in space discovered on September 3, 2002 by amateur astronomer Bill Yeung. Initially thought to be an asteroid, it has since been tentatively identified as the S-IVB third stage of the Apollo 12 Saturn V rocket (designated S-IVB-507), based on spectrographic evidence consistent with the paint used on the rockets. The stage was intended to be injected into a permanent heliocentric orbit in November 1969, but is now believed instead to have gone into an unstable high Earth orbit which left Earth's proximity in 1971 and again in June 2003, with an approximately 40-year cycle between heliocentric and geocentric orbit.\n\nWhen it was first discovered, it was quickly found that the object was in an orbit around Earth. Astronomers were surprised at this, as the Moon is the only large object in orbit around the Earth, and anything else would have been ejected long ago due to perturbations with the Earth, the Moon and the Sun.\n\nTherefore, it probably entered into Earth orbit very recently, yet there was no recently launched spacecraft that matched the orbit of J002E3. One explanation could have been that it was a 30-meter-wide piece of rock, but University of Arizona astronomers found that spectral observations of the object indicated a strong correlation of absorption features with a combination of human-made materials including white paint, black paint, and aluminum, consistent with Saturn V rockets. Back-tracing its orbit showed that the object had been orbiting the Sun for 31 years and had last been in the vicinity of the Earth in 1971. This seemed to suggest that it was a part of the Apollo 14 mission, but NASA knew the whereabouts of all hardware used for that mission; the third stage, for instance, was deliberately crashed into the Moon for seismic studies.\n\nThe most likely explanation appears to be the S-IVB third stage for Apollo 12. NASA had originally planned to direct the S-IVB into a solar orbit, but an extra long burn of the ullage motors meant that venting the remaining propellant in the tank of the S-IVB did not give the rocket stage enough energy to escape the Earth–Moon system, and instead the stage ended up in a semi-stable orbit around the Earth after passing by the Moon on November 18, 1969.\n\nIt is thought that J002E3 left Earth orbit in June 2003, and that it may return to orbit the Earth in the mid-2040s.\n\nThe object's Earth orbital paths occasionally take it within the radius of the Moon's orbit, and could result in eventual entry into Earth's atmosphere, or collision with the Moon. The Apollo 12 empty S-IVB, Instrument Unit, and spacecraft adapter base, had a mass of about . This is less than one-fifth of the mass of the Skylab space station, which was constructed from a similar S-IVB and fell out of orbit on July 11, 1979. Objects with a mass of about enter Earth's atmosphere approximately 10 times a year, one of which impacts the Earth's surface approximately once every 10 years.\n\nEleven essentially similar empty S-IVB stages from Apollo, Skylab and Apollo-Soyuz Test Project missions have re-entered the atmosphere from 1966 to 1975. In all cases (including the Skylab station), the objects burned in the atmosphere and broke into relatively small pieces, rather than striking the Earth as a single mass. On the other hand, these objects entered from low Earth orbit or ballistic trajectory, with less energy than J002E3 might possibly have if it were to enter from Solar orbit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6974596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6974596", "title": "Land cover", "text": "Land cover\n\nLand cover is the physical material at the surface of the earth. Land covers include grass, asphalt, trees, bare ground, water, etc. Earth cover is the expression used by ecologist Frederick Edward Clements that has its closest modern equivalent being vegetation. The expression continues to be used by the Bureau of Land Management.\n\nThere are two primary methods for capturing information on land cover: field survey and analysis of remotely sensed imagery. \n\nOne of the major land cover issues (as with all natural resource inventories) is that every survey defines similarly named categories in different ways. For instance, there are many definitions of \"forest\"—sometimes within the same organisation—that may or may not incorporate a number of different forest features (e.g., stand height, canopy cover, strip width, inclusion of grasses, and rates of growth for timber production). Areas without trees may be classified as forest cover \"if the intention is to re-plant\" (UK and Ireland), while areas with many trees may not be labelled as forest \"if the trees are not growing fast enough\" (Norway and Finland). \n\n\"Land cover\" is distinct from \"land use\", despite the two terms often being used interchangeably. Land use is a description of how people \"utilize\" the land and of socio-economic activity. Urban and agricultural land uses are two of the most commonly known land use classes. At any one point or place, there may be multiple and alternate land uses, the specification of which may have a political dimension. The origins of the \"land cover/land use\" couplet and the implications of their confusion are discussed in Fisher et al. (2005).\n\nFollowing table is Land Cover statistics by Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) with 14 classes.\n\n"}
{"id": "42652788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42652788", "title": "Lee Kong Chian Natural History Museum", "text": "Lee Kong Chian Natural History Museum\n\nThe Lee Kong Chian Natural History Museum (LKCNHM) (Chinese: 李光前自然历史博物馆) is a museum of natural history at the Kent Ridge Campus of the National University of Singapore. Officially opened on 18 April 2015, it houses the Raffles Natural History Collection. \n\nThe idea for a natural history collection was first mooted by Sir Stamford Raffles, and the collection of Southeast Asian biodiversity was begun in 1849 at the Raffles Museum (now the National Museum of Singapore). In 1972, the Government of Singapore removed the natural history collections from the National Museum and gave them to the Zoology Department of what was then the University of Singapore. They were housed in various temporary premises, including the Nanyang Technological University for seven years. Subsequently, they were returned to the NUS and housed in the Raffles Museum of Biodiversity Research. LKCNHM inherited the natural history collections from the Raffles Museum of Biodiversity Research.\n\nThe Museum currently has more than 560,000 catalogued lots in its collection and over a million specimens from throughout the region. About 2,000 of these are exhibited in the museum's galleries.\n\nIn February 2016, the museum announced that $1 million was raised for scientific and educational efforts related to the 10.6m adult female sperm whale carcass dubbed \"Jubi Lee\" found in Singapore waters July 2015. The \"Jubilee Whale Exhibit\" was unveiled on 14 March 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31945947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31945947", "title": "List of Acacia species used for timber production", "text": "List of Acacia species used for timber production\n\nThis is a list of \"Acacia\" species (\"sensu lato\") that are used for the production of timber.\n"}
{"id": "22475152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22475152", "title": "List of Superfund sites in North Carolina", "text": "List of Superfund sites in North Carolina\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in North Carolina designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law. The CERCLA federal law of 1980 authorized the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to create a list of polluted locations requiring a long-term response to clean up hazardous material contaminations. These locations are known as Superfund sites, and are placed on the National Priorities List (NPL). \n\nThe NPL guides the EPA in \"determining which sites warrant further investigation\" for environmental remediation. As of December 16, 2010, there were 35 Superfund sites on the National Priorities List in North Carolina. Two additional sites have been proposed for entry on the list. One site has been cleaned up and removed from the list, and four other sites have been partially deleted from the NPL.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27816757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27816757", "title": "List of forests in Denmark", "text": "List of forests in Denmark\n\nThis is a list of forests in Denmark.\n\nIn the year 2000, Denmark had 4860 km², corresponding to 11% of the Danish territory. Of this, 69% was located in Jutland while 31% was located on the islands. 63% was coniferous forest while 37% was broadleaf forest.\n\nIn 2004 the Danish Forest and Nature Agency published this list of the 10 largest forests in Denmark:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14054437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14054437", "title": "List of grasses of Puerto Rico", "text": "List of grasses of Puerto Rico\n\nThe grass family Poaceae is the largest group of flowering plants present on the island of Puerto Rico. With 258 species, it represents 9% of all Angiosperms and 33% of all Monocots.\n\nThe following is a list of grass species known to exist in Puerto Rico, separated by genus:\n\n"}
{"id": "22022665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22022665", "title": "List of local nature reserves in Wales", "text": "List of local nature reserves in Wales\n\nThe following is a list of local nature reserves in Wales\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29082062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29082062", "title": "List of rivers of Cambodia", "text": "List of rivers of Cambodia\n\nThis is a list of major rivers in Cambodia .\n\nThis list is arranged by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23228798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23228798", "title": "List of star names in Crux", "text": "List of star names in Crux\n\nThis is the list of the proper names for the stars in the constellation Crux. (Used modern western astronomy and uranography only)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15795860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15795860", "title": "Manipulation of atoms by optical field", "text": "Manipulation of atoms by optical field\n\nWhen a group of atoms is super-cooled to temperatures near absolute zero, they form a Bose–Einstein condensate, a state of matter where quantum effects can be observed in the macroscopic system. In this state, the trajectories of the atoms can be manipulated using light.\n\nIf a super-cooled atomic gas is placed in a standing light wave produced by two counter-propagating lasers of certain frequency, the atoms are diffracted in different order. A cold atom absorbs a photon from one of the laser beams and emits a photon in the other beam receiving a net momentum of formula_1 in the direction of the absorbed photon. Here formula_2 is the magnitude of the wave vector of the laser. This is called two-photon recoil process. In such situation, a BEC cloud sitting at the center of a trap is split into two identical clouds. The clouds then travel in opposite directions with a velocity, formula_3 in the direction of the photon.\n"}
{"id": "8917998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8917998", "title": "Maranhão Babaçu forests", "text": "Maranhão Babaçu forests\n\nThe Maranhão Babaçu forests is a tropical moist broadleaf forest ecoregion of north-central Brazil.\n\nThe Maranhão Babaçu forests cover an area of , extending across northeastern and central Maranhão state and northern Piauí state. The forests form a transition between the equatorial forests of the Amazon biome to the west and the drier savannas and xeric shrublands to the south and east. The ecoregion is bounded by the Maranhão mangroves and the Northeastern Brazil restingas along the coast to the north, the Tocantins-Araguaia-Maranhão moist forests of Amazonia across the Pindaré River to the northwest and west, the Cerrado tropical savanna to the south, and the Caatingas xeric shrublands to the east.\n\nThe Flora of the ecoregion is varied, with the western portion of the region hosting tall and diverse moist evergreen and semi-deciduous forests, while the eastern portion is a mosaic of open woodlands and shrublands, with patches of dry savanna. Seasonally wet savannas are found on the lower reaches of the major rivers.\n\nThe dominant tree in the region is the Babaçu palm \"(Attalea speciosa)\", an oil palm that occurs naturally along the southern edge of the Amazonian forests, but whose predominance has been extended by its tolerance to human-caused fires and forest clearing. Another common species is the Carnauba palm (\"Copernicia prunifera).\"\n\nCarnauba palm is a very important palm species. It is the source of carnauba wax, which is harvested from the coating on the leaves of the tree. The fruit and pith are eaten, the leaves are variously employed and the wood is used in building. In some places like Ceará State, it is known as the \"Tree of Life\".\n\nBabaçu forests are inhabited by many animal species, some of these are found in the rivers that cut the forest extension, others live in the forest itself. Birds like macaws, parrots are common. Herons and other aquatic birds are usually seen along the rivers banks and lake margins while hunting for crustaceans and fish.\n\nThere are also many species of mammals such as monkeys, wild dogs, felines, possums, armadillos, anteaters, wild pigs and the wild deer. Some species of aquatic mammals such as giant otters and river dolphins are also found there. Reptiles are also found in abundance, with many snakes and lizard species such as the green iguana and also some species of geckos. The amphibians are also abundant, being more common during the raining season, when it is possible to see a great number of toad and frog species.\n\nIn the water there are many species of animals such as fishes that belong to the Cichlidae and Characidae families and many crustaceans as well, some of these are freshwater shrimps and crabs.\n\nInsects, spiders, centipedes and many other invertebrate species are very common and most of them are found during the night. Huge beetles are found in the region and their larvae, locally called \"gongo\" are an important nutritional source for many of the animals that live there and also for human beings that forage for nuts and occasionally are able to find some of these huge larvae.\n"}
{"id": "8485910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8485910", "title": "Matagh", "text": "Matagh\n\nIn Armenian Christian tradition, matagh ( \"mataġ\") is a lamb or a rooster slated for sacrifice to God, a ritual which has continued from the pagan past. In many regions of Armenia today, this practice is very much alive in the regular slaughter of chosen animals in front of churches.\nMatagh is done often to ask God for either forgiveness, health, or to give them something in return. People generally gather at the house where the Matagh was done, where they pray and eat the meat. Tradition holds that the meat must be eaten before sundown.\n\nAdditional information: The meat is to be prepared in a simple way stove top (usually Khashlama) with minimal spices. It is not to be grilled over a fire. Also the meat is supposed to be shared among 7 families (relatives and/or neighbors). In many cases a Matagh takes place as an act of thanksgiving to God after an accident or other life-threatening event with a good outcome.\n\n"}
{"id": "10441825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10441825", "title": "National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service", "text": "National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service\n\nThe National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service (NESDIS) was created by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to operate and manage the United States environmental satellite programs, and manage the data gathered by the National Weather Service and other government agencies and departments.\n\nIn August 1980, the National Earth Satellite Service (NESS) was removed from the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Services and became a principal agency line organization in NOAA with an Assistant Administrator who reported directly to the Administrator. This move reflected the increasing importance of satellite observations to NOAA's environmental science and service responsibilities. It was largely precipitated by a decision by the Carter Administration in November 1979 to assign NOAA management responsibility for all civil operational remote sensing from space. NESDIS was formed in 1982 with the merger of NESS and the Environmental Data Service.\n\nNESDIS has managed operational polar orbiting satellites (POES) since 1966. Additionally, NESDIS has managed operational geosynchronous satellites (GOES) satellites since 1974. New generations of satellites are being developed to succeed the current polar orbiting and geosynchronous satellites: the Joint Polar Satellite System) and GOES-R. The first satellite in the GOES-R series is scheduled for launch in October 2016. The launch of JPSS-1 is scheduled for no later than March 2017.\n\nIn 1979 NOAA's first polar-orbiting environmental satellite was launched. Current operational satellites include NOAA-15, NOAA-18, NOAA-19, GOES 13, GOES 14, GOES 15, Jason-2, and DSCOVR. Since May 1998 NESIDS has operated the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) satellites on behalf of the Air Force Weather Agency.\n\nNESDIS's National Centers for Environmental Information (NCEI) archives data collected by the NOAA, U.S. Navy, U.S. Air Force, the Federal Aviation Administration, and meteorological services around the world. NCEI comprises the Center for Weather and Climate (previously NOAA's National Climatic Data Center) and the Center for Coasts, Oceans, and Geophysics (a merger of NOAA's National Coastal Data Development Center (NCDDC), National Oceanographic Data Center (NODC), and National Geophysical Data Center (NGDC)).\n\nNESDIS also runs the:\nIn 1960 TIROS-1, NOAA's first owned and operated satellite, was launched. In 1983 NOAA assumed operational responsibility for Landsat satellite system.\n"}
{"id": "3103801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3103801", "title": "Nuclear fuel bank", "text": "Nuclear fuel bank\n\nA nuclear fuel bank is reserve of low enriched uranium (LEU) for countries that need a backup source of LEU to fuel their nuclear reactors. Countries that do have enrichment technology would donate enriched fuel to a \"bank\", from which countries not possessing enrichment technology would obtain fuel for their power reactors.\n\nThe concept of providing an assured supply of nuclear fuel, and thus avoiding the need for countries to build indigenous nuclear fuel production capabilities, has long been proposed as a way to curb the proliferation of nuclear weapons and, eventually, eliminate them altogether. Austria, Russia, the European Union, the United States, and others have supported various concepts of an international fuel bank. Many non-nuclear-weapon states have been reluctant to embrace any of these proposals for varying reasons.\n\nEnrichment technology is primarily used to create enriched nuclear fuel, but it can also be used to create weapons-grade nuclear material. The main goal of a fuel bank is therefore to minimize the risk of further nuclear weapons proliferation by removing the need for countries to possess enrichment technology.\n\nThe proposed fuel bank would assure a back-up supply for power reactors throughout the world on a non-discriminatory, non-political basis, reducing the need for countries to develop their own uranium enrichment technologies at a time when concerns about nuclear proliferation are growing. The IAEA's former Director General Dr. ElBaradei confirmed this, saying that the importance of nuclear fuel banks is \"by providing reliable access to fuel at competitive market prices, we remove the need for countries to develop indigenous fuel cycle capabilities. In so doing, we could go a long way towards addressing current concerns about the dissemination of sensitive fuel cycle technologies.\"\n\nDr. ElBaradei, who was director of the International Atomic Energy Agency from 1997 to 2009, called for the establishment of a nuclear fuel bank to provide peaceful access to nuclear energy without raising questions about dual-use technology. \"Every country that would like to get the fuel, that would like to get the technology, the reactor, will get that, but not necessarily developing their own enrichment facility. And assurance of supply mechanism should be reliable, should be apolitical, should be based solely on non-proliferation criteria,\" he said. In his acceptance of the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize, Dr. ElBaradei also said the establishment of an international fuel bank would remove the incentive for each country to develop its own fuel cycle. \"We should then be able to agree on a moratorium on new national facilities, and to begin work on multinational arrangements for enrichment, fuel production, waste disposal and reprocessing,\" he said.\n\nJoseph Cirincione, the director of the nonproliferation program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, says that an international fuel bank could start reforms at the international level. \"If we handle it properly, Iran might be the trigger for resolving this problem that troubles all nations relying on nuclear power. Iran, ironically, could be the catalyst for creating a fundamentally new system of how we produce and sell nuclear fuel,\" he said.\n\nU.S. Senators Richard Lugar and Evan Bayh, both of Indiana, have also advocated for a nuclear fuel bank. In an op-ed published in the \"Chicago Tribune\", they wrote that what is needed is \"a new international non-proliferation standard that prevents countries from using the guise of nuclear energy to develop nuclear weapons\". Lugar and Bayh argued this was imperative because \"the coming surge in demand for nuclear power will lead more and more nations to seek their own enrichment facilities\", and jointly called for the establishment of an International Nuclear Fuel Bank, controlled by the International Atomic Energy Agency.\nIn 2009, the formation of a nuclear fuel bank was endorsed by U.S. President Barack Obama in a speech in Prague: \"And we should build a new framework for civil nuclear cooperation, including an International Fuel Bank, so that countries can access peaceful power without increasing the risk of proliferation. That must be the right of every national that renounces nuclear weapons, especially for developing countries embarking on peaceful programs.\"\n\nOn 29/08/2017, An International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) project aimed at providing confidence to countries about the availability of nuclear power fuel reached a key milestone on Tuesday towards its establishment, with the inauguration in Kazakhstan of a facility where low-enriched uranium (LEU) will be stored.\n\nDeveloping nations, including a number in the Non-Aligned Movement, have expressed reservations about mechanisms for assurance of supply and have been critical of additional criteria for accessing the fuel banks.\n\nSome reasons that non-nuclear weapon states have been reluctant to embrace these proposals include:\n\nOne example of such a feared political-cutoff came after the 1979 Iranian Revolution. Germany halted construction of the Iranian Bushehr reactor, the United States cut off the supply of highly enriched fuel for the Tehran Research Reactor, and Iran never received uranium from France which it asserted it was entitled to. Russia also agreed not to provide an enrichment plant and terminated cooperation on several other nuclear-related technologies, including laser isotope separation. China terminated several nuclear projects in return in part for entry into force of a U.S.-China civil nuclear cooperation agreement. Ukraine agreed not to provide the turbine for the Bushehr reactor. These combined experiences contributed to an Iranian belief that foreign nuclear supplies are potentially subject to being interrupted. An international nuclear fuel bank would have to overcome this perception.\n\nThe \"Report on the International Control of Atomic Energy\", commonly known as the Acheson–Lilienthal Report, was written by a United States committee in 1946 and discussed possible methods for the international control of nuclear weapons and the avoidance of future nuclear warfare. The report was produced by the Committee on Atomic Energy, headed by Dean Acheson and David Lilienthal, and was mostly written by scientist Robert Oppenheimer. The report recommended that an international body, such as the United Nations, have control over both atomic materials and the means of producing nuclear energy. \nBruno Pellaud, the IAEA's former deputy director-general for safeguards, says the fuel bank idea was developed as far back as 1957.\n\nThe resulting Baruch Plan was a 1946 proposal by the United States government, written largely by political consultant Bernard Baruch. It was presented to the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission (UNAEC) at its first meeting in June 1946. The plan proposed to: \nThe plan clearly announced that the United States would maintain its nuclear weapons monopoly until every aspect of the proposal was in effect. The Soviets subsequently rejected the Baruch Plan, and the United States then rejected a Soviet counter-proposal for a ban on all nuclear weapons.\n\nIn 1953, the U.S. proposed its Atoms for Peace plan. In a speech to the UN General Assembly in New York City on December 8, 1953, U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower called on the United States with the Soviet Union \"to make joint contributions from their stockpiles of normal uranium and fissionable materials to an international Atomic Energy Agency\" that would then \"devise methods whereby this fissionable material would be allocated to serve the peaceful pursuits of mankind.\" The plan also proposed a new International Atomic Energy Agency and “uranium bank” as simple steps to establish international trust and start a cooperative arms control dialogue.\n\nOn July 29, 1957 the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) was established. However, the concept that the IAEA would serve as a bank of nuclear materials, drawing down US and Soviet stocks below the level where either could launch a knock-out blow against the other, languished. During this period the U.S. Congress preferred to supply nuclear material directly to foreign partners in bilateral agreements, thus bypassing the IAEA and applying U.S. safeguards to the transaction instead. It became clear that having the IAEA serve as a nuclear material bank had not succeeded in the Cold War.\nThrough the 1970s and 1980s, further options were examined for developing a \"proliferation-resistant\" fuel cycle. The managerial aspects of the nuclear fuel cycle were also explored during this time and a number of unsuccessful proposals were advanced. Some of the proposals included initiatives on:\n\nIn the late 1970s, the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation conducted a study into the management of spent nuclear fuel. The IAEA's \"Working Group 6\" issued a report on spent fuel management which identified interim storage of spent fuel as an important step in the nuclear fuel cycle. An earlier IAEA study on Regional Fuel Cycle Centre from 1977 has also pointed out the importance of spent fuel. The fuel cycle evaluation was formally launched in October 1977 by the Carter Administration, with more than 500 experts from 46 nations participating.\n\nThe IAEA Board of Governors subsequently established the Committee on Assurances of Supply (CAS) in 1980 to address similar concerns. The Committee examined the issue of multinationalization of the fuel cycle, but was unable to reach a consensus and went into formal abeyance in 1987.\n\nFormer IAEA Director General Dr. ElBaradei gave an international expert group the task of coming up with possible multilateral approaches to better control the sensitive parts of the nuclear fuel cycle. Dr. ElBaradei said that in recent years the nuclear non-proliferation regime has been under tremendous stress and noted the key is fairness and recognizing the interests of all parties. He also said that a lack of progress in confronting the growing risk of nuclear proliferation \"could lead to self-destruction\".\n\nThe group made the following recommendations to strengthen controls over fuel enrichment, reprocessing of fuel, spent fuel repositories and spent fuel storage. They were:\n\nThe Expert Group included representatives from 26 countries. Bruno Pellaud, the Group's Chairman and former Head of IAEA Safeguards, said “a joint nuclear facility with multinational staff puts all participants under a greater scrutiny from peers and partners, a fact that strengthens non-proliferation and security…Moreover, they have the potential to facilitate the continued use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.\"\n\nAs of March 2011 the IAEA Board of Governors has approved the creation of two separate fuel banks. The first, formally established by the IAEA and the Russian government in March 2010, is owned, operated, and paid for by the Russian Federation and located near the Siberian city of Angarsk. The reserve has been fully stocked and became operational on 1 December 2010. The Board of Governors approved a second fuel reserve in December 2010, which will be owned and operated by the IAEA itself, but this fuel bank is not yet operational. Kazakhstan has offered to host a nuclear fuel bank under IAEA auspices as a way to curb nuclear proliferation. In May 2015, the IAEA approved a Host-State Agreement with Kazakhstan, paving the way for Kazakhstan to host the LEU Bank. The plans call for having Russia enrich the uranium before it is stored.\n\nKazatomprom proposed at the 2013 IAEA General Conference that Kazakhstan host the LEU bank at its Ulba Metallurgical Plant. Kazakhstan's Foreign Minister Erlan Idrissov said in an interview that the bank posed no environment threats and highlights Kazakhstan’s contribution into the global efforts of nonproliferation and peaceful use of nuclear power. The LEU bank is under construction in Ust-Kamenogorsk, Kazakhstan under the aegis of the IAEA.\n\nIn addition to the two fuel banks, the Russian Federation has also established an International Uranium Enrichment Center (IUEC) located at Angarsk. The IUEC is set up as a joint stock company between Russia's Rosatom Corporation holding 80% of the shares, Kazakhstani and Ukrainian corporations, while the government of Armenia slated to join the company in the future. The IUEC differs from the two fuel banks in several important ways. First, it is a for-profit entity owned by state-backed companies. As a result, unlike the fuel banks, it is preferential and exclusive in its provision of enrichment services. The IUEC gives preferential treatment to its shareholders when selling enrichment services, and is only available to states that do not have domestic enrichment capabilities and perform their obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Like the fuel banks, it provides an alternative to the expensive start-up costs of an indigenous enrichment capacity, but unlike the fuel banks it provides a further financial incentive to its shareholders in the form of dividends.\n\nThe LEU bank opened on August 29, 2017. It is a physical reserve of up to 90 metric tons of LEU, sufficient to run a 1,000 MWe light-water reactor. Such a reactor can power a large city for three years.\n\nThe topic of a nuclear fuel bank was briefly mentioned by some members attending the Nuclear Security Summit (2010), a summit being held in Washington, D.C. in April 2010 focusing on how to better safeguard weapons-grade plutonium and uranium to prevent nuclear terrorism.\n\nRobert J. Einhorn, Special US Advisor on Non-Proliferation and Arms Control, said the Obama Administration has supported international fuel banks but that \"this issue will come up at the May NPT Review Conference, but this is not the focus of\" the Nuclear Security Summit. Despite the focus on nuclear terrorism, Kazakhstan's president Nursultan Nazarbayev sought the U.S.'s backing to house a nuclear fuel bank while he was in Washington for the event and Prime Minister of Pakistan Yousaf Raza Gillani issued a statement saying Pakistan would like to act as a provider and \"participate in any non-discriminatory nuclear fuel cycle assurance mechanism\". The UAE also reconfirmed its $10 million pledge to the IAEA Nuclear Fuel Bank and its policy of foregoing domestic enrichment and spent fuel reprocessing.\n\nOn August 27, 2015 an agreement to locate the IAEA LEU Bank in Kazakhstan was signed in the country's capital Astana. The nuclear fuel bank aims to guarantee countries access to the uranium they need for a civilian nuclear program without having to develop enrichment processes themselves.\n\nA fuel bank would act as a back-up supply for nuclear power reactors throughout the world on a non-discriminatory and apolitical basis, reducing the need for countries to develop their own uranium enrichment technologies at a time when concerns about nuclear proliferation are growing. Government and industry experts agree the fuel market functions well in meeting current demand, and a fuel bank would be designed inherently in a way not to disrupt the existing commercial market in nuclear fuels. Mohamed ElBaradei, director general of the IAEA from 1997 to 2009, has also suggested that no State should be required to give up its rights under the Non-Proliferation Treaty regarding any parts of the nuclear fuel cycle.\n\nIn March 2008, an IAEA magazine outlined 12 proposals for a multilateral approach that had been put forward. The proposals ranged from providing backup assurances of supply to establishing an IAEA-controlled low-enriched uranium reserve or setting up international enrichment centers.\n\nIn May 2009, three proposals were recommended as the form an international fuel bank should take. Two proposals were for Russian and IAEA fuel banks to provide supply of last resort and were initially proposed by Dr. ElBaradei in 2003. Germany put forward a complementary proposal which advocated the creation of an internationally governed nuclear fuel production plant where production would be done in an extraterritorial site inside an unspecified country.\n\nOver 60 states, many of them developing nations, have informed the International Atomic Energy Agency that they have an interest in launching nuclear energy programs. However, some of these states have expressed concerns that they would lose all access to enrichment and reprocessing technology if they were to accept fuel from a fuel bank.\n\nKazakhstan offered the Ulba Metallurgical Plant as a site for an IAEA administered fuel bank. The IAEA Board of Governors approved the plan to set up the fuel bank in December 2010, but made no choice of the site at that time. As of mid-2012, it was expected to accept Kazakhstan's proposal in time for the fuel bank to open in 2013. In May 2015, the IAEA approved a Host-State Agreement, paving the way for Kazakhstan to host the LEU Bank.\n\nGermany has proposed the creation of a multilateral uranium enrichment center with extraterritorial status, which would operate on a commercial basis as a new supplier in the market. The center would operate under Agency control and providing enrichment services to its customer. Customers could then obtain nuclear fuel for civilian use under strict supervision. Germany has also proposed a “Multilateral Enrichment Sanctuary Project” for an international enrichment center by a group of interested States, on an extraterritorial basis in a host State.\n\nKazakhstan has been considering hosting a site such as the one that the Germans are proposing. \"If a nuclear fuel bank for nuclear energy was created, then Kazakhstan would consider hosting it,\" Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev has proposed. \"We cannot have divides where some own nuclear technology and others not,\" Egyptian diplomat and nonproliferation expert Mohamad Shaker countered. \"Have-nots\" must have an equal role in any technology consortiums, he said.\n\nThe Washington-based Nuclear Threat Initiative's proposal for an international fuel bank announced an initial $50 million grant to the IAEA contingent upon an additional $100 million from other sources. The United States has offered $50 million, the United Arab Emirates has pledged $10 million, Norway has promised $5 million and the European Union agreed to provide up to 25 million euros (about $32 million in May 2009). The fuel bank therefore reached its initial funding target in March 2009.\n\nFormer Senator Sam Nunn, a co-Chairman of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, said in a speech announcing the NTI pledge that \"we envision that this stockpile will be available as a last-resort fuel reserve for nations that have made the sovereign choice to develop their nuclear energy based on foreign sources of fuel supply services-and therefore have no indigenous enrichment facilities.\" Warren Buffett, a key NTI advisor, is financially backing and enabling the commitment. \"This pledge is an investment in a safer world,\" Buffett said.\n\nCountries that already enrich uranium favor the fuel bank because it keeps competitors from entering the market. Some emerging-market countries on the International Atomic Energy Agency Board of Governors have resisted the proposal. “It simply seems a real battlefield,” Iran’s IAEA ambassador, Aliasghar Soltanieh, said. “It’s an issue of trust, and there’s been a lot of fraying of relationships between IAEA states,” said Curtis, Deputy Secretary of Energy under President Bill Clinton. \"We think that (Kazakh President) Nursultan Nazarbayev's idea to host a nuclear fuel bank is a very good proposal,\" Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said. Iran has said it may stop sensitive uranium enrichment if guaranteed a supply of nuclear fuel from abroad, but has also insisted on its right to master the complete nuclear fuel cycle for what it says are peaceful purposes. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said Tehran places importance on international nuclear cooperation, including \"Iran's presence in the global fuel bank.\" Iran has resisted sending its low-enriched uranium abroad and has proposed the IAEA supervise uranium enrichment inside the country.\n\nSergey Kiriyenko, head of Russian nuclear corporation Rosatom, has told the IAEA General Conference that Russia planned to put under IAEA control a reserve of $300 million worth of low enriched uranium. The fuel would be stored at a multinational uranium-enrichment facility in the Siberian city of Angarsk and would be sufficient for two reactor-loads of low-enriched uranium. “We should carry out the preparatory work required for the IAEA Director-General to propose to the IAEA Board of Governors that they consider Russia’s plans for establishing guaranteed nuclear fuel reserves in the first half of 2008,” Kiriyenko said. He further said that Russia is ready to process 4,000 tons of Australian uranium a year.\n\nRussia established its International Uranium Enrichment Center (IUEC) at the Angarsk Electrolysis Chemical Combine “to provide guaranteed access to uranium enrichment capabilities to the Centre’s participating organizations”. On 10 May 2007 the first agreement in the framework of the IUEC was signed by the Russian Federation and the Republic of Kazakhstan. In November 2009, the IAEA Board of Governors approved the Russian proposal to set up a low enriched uranium reserve available to Member States upon request from the Agency. Russia and the IAEA agreed on March 30, 2010 to set up the world's first nuclear fuel bank, at Angarsk in Siberia.\n\nThe \"Six-Country Concept\" was proposed by France, Germany, the Netherlands, Russia, the UK, and the U.S. to provide reliable access to nuclear fuel. In 2008, all six of these nations had enrichment facilities. The proposal would require customer states to forego sensitive indigenous nuclear facilities, and if a supply disruption were to occur the recipient country would be able to approach the IAEA to facilitate new arrangements with other suppliers as long as nonproliferation conditions had been met – these conditions would include implementation of the Additional Protocol and safety and protection standards being satisfied.\n\nThe six nations proposed two levels of enrichment assurance beyond the normal market. At the “basic assurances” level, suppliers would agree to substitute for each other to cover certain supply interruptions to customers. At the “reserves” assurance level, participating governments could provide physical or virtual reserves of low-enriched uranium that would be made available if the “basic assurances” were not met.\n\nOther proposals for a nuclear fuel bank have included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34291649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34291649", "title": "Pacific Health Summit", "text": "Pacific Health Summit\n\nThe goal of the Pacific Health Summit is to connect science, industry, and policy for a healthier world. Traditionally, the main work of the Summit has been an annual meeting, where top decision makers convene to discuss how to realize the dream of a healthier future through the effective utilization of scientific advances, combined with industrial innovation and appropriate policies. In autumn of 2012 on the heels of its eight major conference, the Summit shifted its focus from an annual meeting to more targeted work that builds on the past themes and concrete outcomes. As it has since 2005, the Summit will continue to provide a year-round forum for world leaders to grapple with problems and solutions, share best practices, and forge effective collaborations.\n\nThe first Pacific Health Summit was held in Seattle, Washington in 2005 with foundational support from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Russell Family Foundation. It was the co-creation of 2001 Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine winner Leland H. Hartwell, businessman and philanthropist George F. Russell Jr., Co-chair of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation William H. Gates Sr., and Founding Director of the National Bureau of Asian Research’s Center for Health and Aging Michael Birt. NBR has been the Secretariat of the Summit since the inaugural 2005 conference. \n\nBirt, founding Executive Director of the Summit, stepped down from his role as NBR’s Center for Health and Aging Director in 2009, and from his role as Executive Director in 2012, handing the mantle to Claire Topal, the Summit's Managing Director, who ran the Summit and managed the team from 2009-2012. She now serves as Senior Advisor for International Health to NBR. Nualchan Sakchalathorn, the Summit’s Project Director, served on the Summit team from 2007-2012.\n\nBuilding on Bill Gates Sr.'s strong personal support, in 2007 Tachi Yamada, then President of Global Health at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, took on a decisive leadership role and formally established the Foundation as the Summit's third co-presenting organization. \n\nIn 2008, the Wellcome Trust joined the Summit as the fourth official co-presenting organization, and Trust Director, Sir Mark Walport, joined our Executive Committee. Both Sir William Castell, Chairman of the Wellcome Trust, who has participated in the Summit since its first year, and Sir Mark provided crucial leadership as the Summit began its rotation in London for the annual meeting.\n\nPeter Neupert, then Corporate Vice President for Health Solutions Strategy for Microsoft, and Craig Mundie, Chief Research and Strategy Officer of Microsoft, consistently provided a private sector perspective to the Summit's strategic discussions. Additionally, GE Healthcare, through Bill Castell in 2005, has always provided critical advice and perspective, as well as the critical founding sponsorship for the annual meeting. \n\nOut of this initial foundation of leadership, the Summit grew into one of the world's premier global health gatherings every year. In 2012, eight years after the inaugural meeting, which was never designed to take place in perpetuity, global health is in an exciting new place. The Summit’s interactive format has proliferated, and decision-makers across all sectors and geographies are collaborating on all the critical global health issues the Summit sought to address: health technology, pandemic flu, MDR-TB, vaccines, malnutrition, maternal and newborn health, and many more. While the Summit is proud of eight years of transformational conversations, countless new friendships, and exciting partnerships, there is still much work to do – and so much momentum on which to build. NBR is looking forward and excited to build on the Summit’s legacy in the years to come.\n\nThe Summit has been a catalyst for partnerships, and the setting of several global health announcements. In 2007, during a speech at the Summit, Margaret Chan, Director-General of the World Health Organization, publicized “a new initiative to establish a world stockpile of vaccines to prepare for the threat of pandemic influenza.” At the Summit in 2009, Sanofi bolstered that stockpile with 100 million donated doses of flu vaccine. \nOther partnerships furthered by, or formed at, the Summit have helped to lead to the establishment of the MSD Wellcome Trust Hilleman Laboratories, the Access to Nutrition Index, the Critical Path to TB Drug Regimens, and a cervical cancer vaccination deal between Merck & Co. and Qiagen. \nAdditionally, the denial of a US visa for 2009 Summit participant Paul Thorn of the Tuberculosis Survival Project, due to his HIV positive status, became the impetus behind the repeal of a US travel restriction law on individuals carrying the HIV/AIDs virus.\n\nThe Summit Secretariat, the Center for Health and Aging at The National Bureau of Asian Research, publishes reports, videos, and photos of Summit sessions and workshops. The organization also produces expert interviews and thought pieces with Summit participants on past themes and current global health topics. Prior to each Summit, the Center publishes a ‘Calls for Collaboration’ report. The publication contains submissions from organizations inviting Summit participants to partner and collaborate around specific areas of need.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1203155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1203155", "title": "Pedosphere", "text": "Pedosphere\n\nThe pedosphere (from Greek πέδον \"pedon\" \"soil\" or \"earth\" and σφαῖρα \"sphaira\" \"sphere\") is the outermost layer of the Earth that is composed of soil and subject to soil formation processes. It exists at the interface of the lithosphere, atmosphere, hydrosphere and biosphere. The pedosphere is the skin of the Earth and only develops when there is a dynamic interaction between the atmosphere (air in and above the soil), biosphere (living organisms), lithosphere (unconsolidated regolith and consolidated bedrock) and the hydrosphere (water in, on and below the soil). The pedosphere is the foundation of terrestrial life on Earth. \n\nThe pedosphere acts as the mediator of chemical and biogeochemical flux into and out of these respective systems and is made up of gaseous, mineralic, fluid and biologic components. The pedosphere lies within the Critical Zone, a broader interface that includes vegetation, pedosphere, groundwater aquifer systems, regolith and finally ends at some depth in the bedrock where the biosphere and hydrosphere cease to make significant changes to the chemistry at depth. As part of the larger global system, any particular environment in which soil forms is influenced solely by its geographic position on the globe as climatic, geologic, biologic and anthropogenic changes occur with changes in longitude and latitude.\n\nThe pedosphere lies below the vegetative cover of the biosphere and above the hydrosphere and lithosphere. The soil forming process (pedogenesis) can begin without the aid of biology but is significantly quickened in the presence of biologic reactions. Soil formation begins with the chemical and/or physical breakdown of minerals to form the initial material that overlies the bedrock substrate. Biology quickens this by secreting acidic compounds (dominantly fulvic acids) that help break rock apart. Particular biologic pioneers are lichen, mosses and seed bearing plants, but many other inorganic reactions take place that diversify the chemical makeup of the early soil layer. Once weathering and decomposition products accumulate, a coherent soil body allows the migration of fluids both vertically and laterally through the soil profile, causing ion exchange between solid, fluid and gaseous phases. As time progresses, the bulk geochemistry of the soil layer will deviate away from the initial composition of the bedrock and will evolve to a chemistry that reflects the type of reactions that take place in the soil.\n\nThe primary conditions for soil development are controlled by the chemical composition of the rock that the soil will eventually be forming on. Rock types that form the base of the soil profile are often either sedimentary (carbonate or siliceous), igneous or metaigneous (metamorphosed igneous rocks) or volcanic and metavolcanic rocks. The rock type and the processes that lead to its exposure at the surface are controlled by the regional geologic setting of the specific area under study, which revolve around the underlying theory of plate tectonics, subsequent deformation, uplift, subsidence and deposition. \n\nMetaigneous and metavolcanic rocks form the largest component of cratons and are high in silica. Igneous and volcanic rocks are also high in silica but with non-metamorphosed rock, weathering becomes faster and the mobilization of ions is more widespread. Rocks high in silica produce silicic acid as a weathering product. There are few rock types that lead to localized enrichment of some of the biologically limiting elements like phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N). Phosphatic shale (<15% PO) and phosphorite (>15% PO) form in anoxic deep water basins that preserve organic material. Greenstone (metabasalt), phyllite and schist release up to 30-50% of the nitrogen pool. Thick successions of carbonate rocks are often deposited on craton margins during sea level rise. The widespread dissolution of carbonate and evaporate minerals leads to elevated levels of Mg, HCO, Sr, Na, Cl and SO ions in aqueous solution.\n\nThe process of soil formation is dominated by chemical weathering of silicate minerals, aided by acidic products of pioneering plants and organisms as well as carbonic acid inputs from the atmosphere. Carbonic acid is produced in the atmosphere and soil layers through the carbonation reaction.\n\nformula_1\n\nThis is the dominant form of chemical weathering and aides in the breakdown of carbonate minerals like calcite and dolomite and silicate minerals like feldspar. The breakdown of the Na-feldspar, albite, by carbonic acid to form kaolinite clay is as follows:\n\nformula_2\n\nEvidence of this reaction in the field would be elevated levels of bicarbonate (HCO), sodium and silica ions in the water runoff.\nThe breakdown of carbonate minerals:\n\nformula_3 or formula_4 \n\nThe further dissolution of carbonic acid (HCO) and bicarbonate (HCO) produces CO gas. Oxidization is also a major contributor to the breakdown of many silicate minerals and formation of secondary minerals (diagenesis) in the early soil profile. Oxidation of Olivine (FeMgSiO) releases Fe, Mg and Si ions. The Mg is soluble in water and is carried in the runoff but the Fe often reacts with oxygen to precipitate FeO (hematite), the oxidized state of iron oxide. Sulfur, a byproduct of decaying organic material will also react to Fe to form pyrite (FeS) but often in reducing environments. Pyrite dissolution leads to high pH levels due to elevated H+ ions and further precipitation of FeO ultimately changing the redox conditions of the environment.\n\nInputs from the biosphere may begin with lichen and other microorganisms that secrete oxalic acid. These microorganisms, associated with the lichen community or independently inhabiting rocks, include a number of blue-green algae, green algae, various fungi, and numerous bacteria. Lichen has long been viewed as the pioneers of soil development as the following statement suggests:\n\n“The initial conversion of rock into soil is carried on by the pioneer lichens and their successors, the mosses, in which the hair-like rhizoids assume the role of roots in breaking down the surface into fine dust”\n\nHowever, lichens are not necessarily the only pioneering organisms nor the earliest form of soil formation as it has been documented that seed-bearing plants may occupy an area and colonize quicker than lichen. Also, eolian sedimentation can produce high rates of sediment accumulation. Nonetheless, lichen can certainly withstand harsher conditions than most vascular plants and although they have slower colonization rates, do form the dominant group in alpine regions. \n\nAcids released from plant roots include acetic and citric acids. During the decay of organic matter Phenolic acids are released from plant matter and humic and fulvic acids are released by soil microbes. These organic acids speed up chemical weathering by combining with some of the weathering products in a process known as chelation. In the soil profile, the organic acids are often concentrated at the top while carbonic acid plays a larger role towards the bottom or below in the aquifer.\nAs the soil column develops further into thicker accumulations, larger animals come to inhabit the soil and continue to alter the chemical evolution of their respective niche. Earthworms aerate the soil and convert large amounts of organic matter into rich humus, improving soil fertility. Small burrowing mammals store food, grow young and may hibernate in the pedosphere altering the course of soil evolution. Large mammalian herbivores above ground transport nutrients in form of nitrogen-rich waste and phosphorus-rich antlers while predators leave phosphorus-rich piles of bones on the soil surface, leading the localized enrichment of the soil below.\n\nNutrient cycling in lakes and freshwater wetlands depends heavily on redox conditions. Under a few millimeters of water heterotrophic bacteria metabolize and consume oxygen. They therefore deplete the soil of oxygen and create the need for anaerobic respiration. Some anaerobic microbial processes include denitrification, sulfate reduction and methanogenesis and are responsible for the release of N (nitrogen), HS (hydrogen sulfide) and CH (methane). Other anaerobic microbial processes are linked to changes in the oxidation state of iron and manganese. As a result of anaerobic decomposition, the soil stores large amounts of organic carbon because decomposition is incomplete.\n\nThe redox potential describes which way chemical reactions will proceed in oxygen deficient soils and controls the nutrient cycling in flooded systems. Redox potential, or reduction potential, is used to express the likelihood of an environment to receive electrons and therefore become reduced. For example, if a system already has plenty of electrons (anoxic, organic-rich shale) it is reduced and will likely donate electrons to a part of the system that has a low concentration of electrons, or an oxidized environment, to equilibrate to the chemical gradient. The oxidized environment has high redox potential, whereas the reduced environment has a low redox potential. \n\nThe redox potential is controlled by the oxidation state of the chemical species, pH and the amount of oxygen (O) there is in the system. The oxidizing environment accepts electrons because of the presence of O, which acts as electron acceptors:\n\nformula_5\n\nThis equation will tend to move to the right in acidic conditions which causes higher redox potentials to be found at lower pH levels. Bacteria, heterotrophic organisms, consume oxygen while decomposing organic material which depletes the soils of oxygen, thus increasing the redox potential. In low redox conditions the deposition of ferrous iron (Fe) will increase with decreasing decomposition rates, thus preserving organic remains and depositing humus. At high redox potential, the oxidized form of iron, ferric iron (Fe), will be deposited commonly as hematite. By using analytical geochemical tools such as x-ray fluorescence (XRF) or inductively coupled mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) the two forms of Fe (Fe and Fe) can be measured in ancient rocks therefore determining the redox potential for ancient soils. \n\nSuch a study was done on Permian through Triassic rocks (300-200 million years old) in Japan and British Columbia. The geologists found hematite throughout the early and middle Permian but began to find the reduced form of iron in pyrite within the ancient soils near the end of the Permian and into the Triassic. This suggests that conditions became less oxygen rich, even anoxic, during the late Permian, which eventually led to the greatest extinction in earth’s history, the P-T extinction.\n\nDecomposition in anoxic or reduced soils is also carried out by sulfur-reducing bacteria which, instead of O use SO as an electron acceptor and produce hydrogen sulfide (HS) and carbon dioxide in the process:\n\nformula_6\n\nThe HS gas percolates upwards and reacts with Fe and precipitates pyrite, acting as a trap for the toxic HS gas. However, HS is still a large fraction of emissions from wetland soils. In most freshwater wetlands there is little sulfate (SO) so methanogenesis becomes the dominant form of decomposition by methanogenic bacteria only when sulfate is depleted. Acetate, a compound that is a byproduct of fermenting cellulose is split by methanogenic bacteria to produce methane (CH) and carbon dioxide (CO), which are released to the atmosphere. Methane is also released during the reduction of CO by the same bacteria.\n\nIn the pedosphere it is safe to assume that gases are in equilibrium with the atmosphere. Because plant roots and soil microbes release CO to the soil, the concentration of bicarbonate(HCO) in soil waters is much greater than that in equilibrium with the atmosphere, the high concentration of CO and the occurrence of metals in soil solutions results in lower pH levels in the soil. Gases that escape from the pedosphere to the atmosphere include the gaseous byproducts of carbonate dissolution, decomposition, redox reactions and microbial photosynthesis. The main inputs from the atmosphere are aeolian sedimentation, rainfall and gas diffusion. Eolian sedimentation includes anything that can be entrained by wind or that stays suspended, seemingly indefinitely, in air and includes a wide variety of aerosol particles, biological particles like pollen and dust to pure quartz sand. Nitrogen is the most abundant constituent in rain (after water), as water vapor utilizes aerosol particles to nucleate rain droplets.\n\nSoil is well developed in the forest as suggested by the thick humus layers, rich diversity of large trees and animals that live there. In forests, precipitation exceeds evapotranspiration which results in an excess of water that percolates downward through the soil layers. Slow rates of decomposition leads to large amounts of fulvic acid, greatly enhancing chemical weathering. The downward percolation, in conjunction with chemical weathering leaches magnesium (Mg), iron (Fe), and aluminum (Al) from the soil and transports them downward, a process known as podzolization. This process leads to marked contrasts in the appearance and chemistry of the soil layers.\n\nTropical forests (rainforests) receive more insolation and rainfall over longer growing seasons than any other environment on earth. With these elevated temperatures, insolation and rainfall, biomass is extremely productive leading to the production of as much as 800 grams of carbon per square meter per year. Higher temperatures and larger amounts of water contribute to higher rates of chemical weathering. Increased rates of decomposition cause smaller amounts of fulvic acid to percolate and leach metals from the zone of active weathering. Thus, in stark contrast to soil in forests, tropical forests have little to no podzolization and therefore do not have marked visual and chemical contrasts with the soil layers. Instead, the mobile metals Mg, Fe and Al are precipitated as oxide minerals giving the soil a rusty red color.\n\nPrecipitation in grasslands is equal to or less than evapotranspiration and causes soil development to operate in relative drought. Leaching and migration of weathering products is therefore decreased. Large amounts of evaporation causes buildup of calcium (Ca) and other large cations flocculate clay minerals and fulvic acids in the upper soil profile. Impermeable clay limits downward percolation of water and fulvic acids, reducing chemical weathering and podzolization. The depth to the maximum concentration of clay increases in areas of increased precipitation and leaching. When leaching is decreased, the Ca precipitates as calcite (CaCO) in the lower soil levels, a layer known as caliche. \n\nDeserts behave similarly to grasslands but operate in constant drought as precipitation is less than evapotranspiration. Chemical weathering proceeds more slowly than in grasslands and beneath the caliche layer may be a layer of gypsum and halite. To study soils in deserts, pedologists have used the concept of chronosequences to relate timing and development of the soil layers. It has been shown that P is leached very quickly from the system and therefore decreases with increasing age. Furthermore, carbon buildup in the soils is decreased due to slower decomposition rates. As a result, the rates of carbon circulation in the biogeochemical cycle is decreased.\n"}
{"id": "9538186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9538186", "title": "Penedès", "text": "Penedès\n\nPenedès () is a natural and historical region of the autonomous community of Catalonia, Spain. It is located in the south of the Principality of Catalonia between the pre-coastal mountain range (\"Serralada Pre-litoral\") and the Mediterranean Sea. The comarcal division of the Generalitat de Catalunya in 1936 and 1987, divided Penedès into three administrative comarques: Alt Penedès, Baix Penedès and Garraf, and their capitals are Vilafranca del Penedès, el Vendrell and Vilanova i la Geltrú. \n\nFrom the historical point of view, Penedès was since the start of the ninth century a border region inside the county of Barcelona, which had its center in the former military town Olèrdola, fortified again because of the Christian advance in 929. Olèrdola lost its defensive significance and the capital in the second half of the twelfth century and then Vilafranca del Penedès became the capital. During the thirteenth century formed the Vegueria of Vilafranca including all Penedès and most of Anoia as the sots-vegueria of Igualada.\n\nThe provincial division of the 1833 divide the region between the provinces of Barcelona, which includes Alt Penedès and Garraf, and the province of Tarragona, which includes Baix Penedès.\n\nPenedès is a wine-producing region having a Spanish Denominació d'Origen (DO). Penedès DO includes all Penedès region and municipalities of four other comarques: Anoia, Alt Camp, Baix Llobregat and Tarragonès. The area is framed by the coastal hills of the Serra del Garraf and the higher inland mountains which skirt the Catalan Central Depression. Long considered one of the country's best wine-producing regions after the Rioja, it is also one of the most ancient viticultural areas in Europe. Perhaps better-known for its Cava production, a sparkling wine which has had its own \"Denominació d'Origen\" since 1991, white grape varieties predominate, although the region also produces some highly regarded, oak-aged reds. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1649756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1649756", "title": "Peter Benchley", "text": "Peter Benchley\n\nPeter Bradford Benchley (May 8, 1940 – February 11, 2006) was an American author, screenwriter, and ocean activist. He is known for the bestselling novel \"Jaws\" and co-wrote its subsequent film adaptation with Carl Gottlieb. Several more of his works were also adapted for both cinema and television, including \"The Deep\", \"The Island\", \"Beast\", and \"White Shark\".\n\nLater in life, Benchley came to regret writing such sensationalist literature about sharks, which he felt encouraged excessive fear and unnecessary culls of such an important predator in ocean ecosystems and became an outspoken advocate for marine conservation.\n\nBenchley was the son of Marjorie (née Bradford) and author Nathaniel Benchley and grandson of Algonquin Round Table founder Robert Benchley. His younger brother, Nat Benchley, is a writer and actor. Peter Benchley was an alumnus of the Allen-Stevenson School, Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard University.\n\nAfter graduating from college in 1961, Benchley travelled around the world for a year. The experience was told in his first book, a travel memoir titled \"Time and a Ticket\", published by Houghton Mifflin in 1964. Following his return to America, Benchley spent six months reserve duty in the Marine Corps, and then became a reporter for \"The Washington Post\". While dining at an inn in Nantucket, Benchley met Winifred \"Wendy\" Wesson, whom he dated and then married the following year, 1964. By then Benchley was in New York, working as television editor for \"Newsweek\". In 1967 he became a speechwriter in the White House for President Lyndon B. Johnson, and saw the birth of his daughter Tracy.\n\nOnce Johnson's term ended in 1969, the Benchleys moved out of Washington, and lived in various houses, including an island off Stonington, Connecticut where son Clayton was born in 1969. Benchley wanted to be near New York, and the family eventually got a house at Pennington, New Jersey in 1970. Since his home had no space for an office, Benchley rented a room above a furnace supply company.\n\nBy 1971, Benchley was doing various freelance jobs in his struggle to support his wife and children. During this period, when Benchley would later declare he was \"making one final attempt to stay alive as a writer\", his literary agent arranged meetings with publishers. Benchley would frequently pitch two ideas, a non-fiction book about pirates, and a novel depicting a man-eating shark terrorizing a community. This idea had been developed by Benchley since he had read a news report of a fisherman catching a great white shark off the coast of Long Island in 1964. The shark novel eventually attracted Doubleday editor Thomas Congdon, who offered Benchley an advance of $1,000 leading to the novelist submitting the first 100 pages. Much of the work had to be rewritten as the publisher was not happy with the initial tone. Benchley worked by winter in his Pennington office, and in the summer in a converted chicken coop in the Wessons' farm in Stonington. The idea was inspired by the several great white sharks caught in the 1960s off Long Island and Block Island by the Montauk charterboat captain Frank Mundus.\n\n\"Jaws\" was published in 1974 and became a great success, staying on the bestseller list for 44 weeks. Steven Spielberg, who would direct the film version of \"Jaws\", has said that he initially found many of the characters unsympathetic and wanted the shark to win. Book critics such as Michael A. Rogers of \"Rolling Stone\" shared the sentiment but the book struck a chord with readers.\n\nBenchley co-wrote the screenplay with Carl Gottlieb (along with the uncredited Howard Sackler and John Milius, who provided the first draft of a monologue about the USS \"Indianapolis\") for the Spielberg film released in 1975. Benchley made a cameo appearance as a news reporter on the beach. The film, starring Roy Scheider, Robert Shaw, and Richard Dreyfuss, was released in the summer season, traditionally considered to be the graveyard season for films. However, Universal Studios decided to break tradition by releasing the film with extensive television advertising. It eventually grossed over $470 million worldwide. George Lucas used a similar strategy in 1977 for \"Star Wars\" which broke the box office records set by \"Jaws\", and hence the summer blockbuster was born.\n\nBenchley estimated that he earned enough from book sales, film rights and magazine/book club syndication to be able to work independently as a film writer for ten years.\n\nHis second novel, \"The Deep\", is about a honeymooning couple discovering two sunken treasures on the Bermuda reefs — 17th century Spanish gold and a fortune in World War II-era morphine — who are subsequently targeted by a drug syndicate. This 1976 novel is based on Benchley's chance meeting in Bermuda with diver Teddy Tucker while writing a story for \"National Geographic\". Benchley co-wrote the screenplay for the 1977 film release, along with Tracy Keenan Wynn and an uncredited Tom Mankiewicz. Directed by Peter Yates and starring Robert Shaw, Nick Nolte and Jacqueline Bisset, \"The Deep\" was a box office success, and one of the top 10 highest-grossing films in the US in 1977, though its box office tally fell well short of \"Jaws\".\n\n\"The Island\", published in 1979, was a story of descendants of 17th-century pirates who terrorize pleasure craft in the Caribbean, leading to the Bermuda Triangle mystery. Benchley again wrote the screenplay for the film adaptation. But the film version of \"The Island\", starring Michael Caine and co-starring David Warner, failed at the box office when released in 1980.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Benchley wrote three novels that did not sell as well as his previous works. However, \"Girl of the Sea of Cortez\", a fable influenced by John Steinbeck about man's complicated relationship with the sea, was his best-reviewed book and has attracted a considerable cult following since its publication. \"Sea of Cortez\" signposted Benchley's growing interest in ecological issues and anticipated his future role as an impassioned advocate of the importance of protecting the marine environment. \"Q Clearance\", published in 1986, was written from his experience as a staffer in the Johnson White House. \"Rummies\" (also known as \"Lush\"), which appeared in 1989, is a semi-autobiographical work, loosely inspired by the Benchley family's history of alcohol abuse. While the first half of the novel is a relatively straightforward account of a suburbanite's descent into alcoholic hell, the second part, which takes place at a New Mexico substance abuse clinic, is written as a thriller.\n\nHe returned to nautical themes in 1991's \"Beast\" written about a giant squid threatening Bermuda. \"Beast\" was brought to the small screen as a made-for-television film in 1996, under the title \"The Beast\". His next novel, \"White Shark\", was published in 1994. The story of a Nazi-created genetically engineered shark/human hybrid, it failed to achieve popular or critical success. It was also turned into a made-for-television film titled \"Creature\", with Christopher Lehmann-Haupt of the \"New York Times\" saying it \"looks more like Arnold Schwarzenegger than any fish\". Also in 1994, Benchley became the first person to host Discovery Channel's Shark Week.\n\nIn 1999, the television show \"Peter Benchley's Amazon\" was created, about a group of plane crash survivors in the middle of a vast jungle.\n\nIn the last decade of his career, Benchley wrote non-fiction works about the sea and about sharks advocating their conservation. Among these was his book entitled \"Shark Trouble\", which illustrated how hype and news sensationalism can help undermine the public's need to understand marine ecosystems and the potential negative consequences as humans interact with it. This work, which had editions in 2001 and 2003, was written to help a post-\"Jaws\" public to more fully understand \"the sea in all its beauty, mystery and power.\" It details the ways in which man seems to have become more of an aggressor in his relationship with sharks, acting out of ignorance and greed as several of the species become increasingly threatened by overfishing.\n\nBenchley was a member of the National Council of Environmental Defense and a spokesman for its Oceans Program: \"[T]he shark in an updated \"Jaws\" could not be the villain; it would have to be written as the victim; for, worldwide, sharks are much more the oppressed than the oppressors.\"\n\nHe was also one of the founding board members of the Bermuda Underwater Exploration Institute (BUEI).\n\nBenchley died of pulmonary fibrosis in 2006.\n\nIn light of Peter Benchley's lifelong record of shark conservation and educating the public about sharks, the Peter Benchley Ocean Awards have been instituted by Wendy Benchley and David Helvarg as his legacy.\n\nIn 2015 researchers confirmed a new species of lanternshark had been found off the Pacific coast of South America, naming it \"Etmopterus benchleyi\". Lead researcher Vicki Vásquez noted the author's work in promoting ocean conservation, particlarly sharks, as motivation.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51254155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51254155", "title": "Sanjeevani (plant)", "text": "Sanjeevani (plant)\n\nIn Hindu mythology, sanjeevani is a magical herb which has the power to cure serious nervous system problems. It was believed that medicines prepared from this herb could revive situations where death is almost certain. The herb is mentioned in the Ramayana when Ravana's son Indrajit (Meghnad) hurls a powerful weapon at Lakshmana. Lakshmana is badly wounded and is nearly killed by Indrajit. Hanuman was called upon to fetch this herb from the mount Dronagiri (Mahodaya) in the Himalayas. Upon reaching Dronagiri Parvat, Hanuman could not identify the herb and lifted the whole mountain and brought it to the battlefield.\n\nSeveral plants have been proposed as possible candidates for the sanjeevani plant, including: \"Selaginella bryopteris\", \"Dendrobium plicatile\" (synonym \"Desmotrichum fimbriatum\"), \"Cressa cretica\", and others. A search of ancient texts at CSIR laboratories did not reveal any plant that can be definitively confirmed as sanjeevani. In certain texts it is written that sanjeevani glows in the dark.\n\nThe herb, believed in Ayurvedic medicine to have medicinal properties, has been searched for unsuccessfully for centuries, up to modern times. The Himalayan state of Uttarakhand in northern India committed an initial 250m rupees (£2.8m) of state money to search for \"sanjeevani booti\" starting in August 2016. The search was focused on the Dronagiri range of the Himalayas near the Chinese border. The Ramayana mentions a mountain believed to refer to the Dronagiri range, where the magical herb is supposed to grow. Uttarakhand established a Department of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (Ayush) in November 2014.\n"}
{"id": "652462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652462", "title": "Sarsen", "text": "Sarsen\n\nSarsen stones are sandstone blocks found in quantity in the United Kingdom on Salisbury Plain and the Marlborough Downs in Wiltshire; in Kent; and in smaller quantities in Berkshire, Essex, Oxfordshire, Dorset and Hampshire. They are the post-glacial remains of a cap of Cenozoic silcrete that once covered much of southern England – a dense, hard rock created from sand bound by a silica cement, making it a kind of silicified sandstone. This is thought to have formed during Neogene to Quaternary weathering by the silicification of Upper Paleocene Lambeth Group sediments, resulting from acid leaching.\n\nThe word \"sarsen\" (pronunciation ['sa:sǝn]) is a shortening of \"Saracen stone\" which arose in the Wiltshire dialect. \"Saracen\" was a common name for Muslims, and came by extension to be used for anything regarded as non-Christian, whether Muslim, pagan Celtic, or other.\n\nThe builders of Stonehenge used these stones for the heelstone and sarsen circle uprights. Avebury and many other megalithic monuments in southern England are also built with sarsen stones.\n\nFire and in later times explosives were sometimes employed to break the stone into pieces of a suitable size for use in construction. Sarsen is not an ideal building material, however. William Stukeley wrote that sarsen is \"always moist and dewy in winter which proves damp and unwholesome, and rots the furniture\". In the case of Avebury, the investors who backed a scheme to recycle the stone were bankrupted when the houses they built proved to be unsaleable and also prone to burning down. However, despite these problems, sarsen remained highly prized for its durability, being a favoured material for steps and kerb stones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46901598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46901598", "title": "Scheitholz", "text": "Scheitholz\n\nScheitholz is a German term for log sections that have been split lengthways with an axe or log splitter and that are primarily used for firewood or the manufacture of wood shingles. The individual pieces of timber are called Holzscheite (obs.: \"Holzscheiter\"), derived from the Old High German word \"scît\" = \"piece\". \"Scheitholz\" boilers are used to burn quantities of \"Scheithölzer\". The expression \"auf Scheitholz knien\" (\"to kneel on \"scheitholz\") was a disciplinary measure used in times when corporal punishment in schools was still permitted.\n\nVery thinly split timber is also called Spanholz or Span, roughly the same as long-fibred wood chips or wood shavings, which may also be a waste by-product of the processes of planning or hewing wood. \"Span\" may also refer, however, to long-fibred slips or slices of wood especially of poplar and other softwoods, which are used to make wooden punnets and fruit or vegetable crates.\n\n"}
{"id": "418718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418718", "title": "Sea World (Australia)", "text": "Sea World (Australia)\n\nSea World is a marine mammal park, oceanarium, and theme park located on the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia. It includes rides, animal exhibits and other attractions, and it promotes conservation through education and the rescue and rehabilitation of sick, injured or orphaned wildlife. The park is commercially linked to Warner Bros. Movie World and Wet'n'Wild Gold Coast as part of the theme park division of Village Roadshow.\n\nSea World was founded by Keith Williams in 1958. It was originally known as the Surfers Paradise Ski Gardens, which presented \"water ski shows that combined comedy, aqua ballet and action\". In 1971, the Surfers Paradise Ski Gardens moved to land on the Spit. Major dredging works were required to build the new ski lake. A year later, the Surfers Paradise Ski Gardens became known as Sea World with the introduction of dolphins, marine displays, a replica of the Endeavour, a swimming pool, licensed restaurant and gift shop. Extra additions over the next decade included the purchasing of competitor marine park, Marineland, and the transfer of animals and exhibits to Sea World as well as the addition of more shops and food outlets.\n\nIn 1984 Keith Williams sold the park to Pivot Leisure. Later in 1988 Pivot built the 400 room Sea World Nara Resort. In 1991 Pivot Leisure, Warner Bros. and Village Roadshow jointly developed and opened Warner Bros. Movie World, a Hollywood theme action park, at Oxenford on the Gold Coast. Also that year Pivot Purchased Wet n' Wild Water park located next to the site of Warner Bros. Movie World. In 1993, Warner Bros. and Village Roadshow jointly acquired Pivot Leisure's interest in Warner Bros. Movie World, Sea World and the adjoining Sea World Nara Resort.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs the name suggests, Sea World Resort and Water Park is an adjoining Resort and Water Park to Sea World. In 2008, the Sea World Water Park became part of the resort with regular park guests having to pay an additional fee to make use of the water park. In 2010, part of the Water Park was demolished to make way for \"Castaway Bay\".\n\nTelevision series filmed at Sea World include the Australian children's programmes \"Toasted TV\" (since early 2007), Camp Orange, \"\", \"Dolphin Cove\" and \"\". \"The Shak\" was originally set at Sea World before being moved to WhiteWater World.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55660110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55660110", "title": "Snowden effect", "text": "Snowden effect\n\nThe Snowden Effect is part of the reactions to global surveillance disclosures made by Edward Snowden. A subject of controversy, Snowden has been variously called a hero, a whistleblower, a dissident, a patriot, and a traitor.\n\nIn July 2013, media critic Jay Rosen defined the Snowden effect as \"Direct and indirect gains in public knowledge from the cascade of events and further reporting that followed Edward Snowden's leaks of classified information about the surveillance state in the U.S.\" In December 2013, \"The Nation\" wrote that Snowden had sparked an overdue debate about national security and individual privacy. At the 2014 World Economic Forum, Internet experts saw news that Microsoft would let foreign customers store their personal data on servers outside America as a sign that Snowden's leaks were leading countries and companies to erect borders in cyberspace. In \"Forbes\", the effect was seen to have nearly united the U.S. Congress in opposition to the massive post-9/11 domestic intelligence gathering system. In its Spring 2014 Global Attitudes Survey, the Pew Research Center found that Snowden's disclosures had tarnished the image of the United States, especially in Europe and Latin America.\n\nIn May 2014, the Obama administration appointed William Evanina, a former FBI special agent with a counter-terrorism specialty, as the new government-wide National Counterintelligence Executive. \"Instead of getting carried away with the concept of leakers as heroes,\" Evanina said in August, \"we need to get back to the basics of what it means to be loyal. Undifferentiated, unauthorized leaking is a criminal act.\" While dealing with insider threats had been an intelligence community priority since WikiLeaks published Chelsea Manning's disclosures in 2010, Evanina said that in the aftermath of Snowden's June 2013 revelations, the process \"sped up from a regional railway to the Acela train.\" A year later, 100,000 fewer people had security clearances.\n\nIn September 2014, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said Snowden's leaks created a perfect storm, degrading the intelligence community's capabilities. Snowden's leaks, said Clapper, damaged relationships with foreign and corporate stakeholders, restrained budget resources, and caused the U.S. to discontinue collecting intelligence on certain targets, putting the United States at greater risk.\n\nIn October 2014, former Director of the National Counterterrorism Center Matthew G. Olsen told CNN that Snowden's disclosures had made it easier for terrorist groups to evade U.S. surveillance by changing their encryption methods. Olsen said intelligence collection against some individuals of concern had been lost, preventing insight into their activities. By July 2015 ISIL had studied Snowden's disclosures and, said U.S. officials, its leaders were using couriers or encrypted communications that Western analysts could not crack.\n\nIn February 2015, National Counterterrorism Center director Nicholas Rasmussen told Congress that Snowden's disclosures had damaged U.S. intelligence capabilities. Rasmussen said the government knew of specific terrorists who, after learning from Snowden's leaks how the U.S. collected intelligence, had increased their security measures by using new types of encryption, changing email addresses, or abandoning prior methods of communicating.\n\nReflecting on the effect of his leaks, Snowden himself wrote in February 2015 that \"the biggest change has been in awareness. Before 2013, if you said the NSA was making records of everybody's phonecalls and the GCHQ was monitoring lawyers and journalists, people raised eyebrows and called you a conspiracy theorist. Those days are over.\"\n\nIn March 2015, \"USA Today\" reported that the Snowden effect had hit \"The Guardian\". Journalist Michael Wolff, who wrote for \"The Guardian\" for many years, asserted that the recent selection of Katharine Viner as editor-in-chief \"can be read as, in part, a deeply equivocal response on the part of the paper's staff, with its unusual power in the process of selecting a new editor, to the Snowden story.\" According to Wolff, there had developed \"a sense of journalistic queasiness around Snowden, difficult to express at the party-line \"Guardian\". Questioning Snowden's retreat to Russia and his protection by Vladimir Putin was internally verboten.\"\n\nIn the technology industry, the Snowden effect had a profound impact after it was revealed that the NSA was tapping into the information held by some U.S. cloud-based services. Google, Cisco, and AT&T lost business internationally due to the public outcry over their roles in NSA spying. A study by the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation published in August 2013 estimated that the cloud-based computing industry could have lost up to $35 billion by 2016. \"The Wall Street Journal\" named \"the Snowden effect\" as 2013's top tech story, saying Snowden's leaks \"taught businesses that the convenience of the cloud cuts both ways.\" The \"Journal\" predicted the effect would top 2014 news as well, given the number of documents yet to be revealed. In China, the most profitable country for U.S. tech companies, all are \"under suspicion as either witting or unwitting collaborators\" in the NSA spying, according to the director of the Research Center for Chinese Politics and Business at Indiana University. The effect was also seen in changes to investment in the industry, with security \"back on the map\" according to Hussein Kanji, Venture Capitalist at Hoxton Ventures.\n\nOn August 8, 2013, Lavabit, a secure email provider that Snowden used, discontinued service after being asked for encryption keys that would have exposed to U.S. government prosecutors the emails of all 410,000 Lavabit users. The next day, a similar provider called Silent Circle announced that it too would shut down because it was not possible to sufficiently secure email. In October 2013, the two companies joined forces and announced a new email service, Dark Mail Alliance, designed to withstand government surveillance.\n\nAfter revelations that German Chancellor Angela Merkel's mobile was being tapped, the tech industry rushed to create a secure cell phone. According to \"TechRepublic\", revelations from the NSA leaks \"rocked the IT world\" and had a \"chilling effect\". The three biggest impacts were seen as increased interest in encryption, business leaving U.S. companies, and a reconsideration of the safety of cloud technology. The Blackphone, which \"The New Yorker\" called \"a phone for the age of Snowden\"—described as \"a smartphone explicitly designed for security and privacy\", created by the makers of GeeksPhone, Silent Circle, and PGP, provided encryption for phone calls, emails, texts, and Internet browsing.<ref name=\" Kopstein/New Yorker\"></ref>\n\nSince Snowden's disclosures, Americans used the Internet less for things like email, online shopping and banking, according to an April 2014 poll. Also in April 2014, former NSA deputy director Col. Cedric Leighton told the Bloomberg Enterprise Technology Summit in New York City that Snowden's leaks had performed a significant disservice to the worldwide health of the Internet by leading Brazil and other countries to reconsider the Internet's decentralized nature. Leighton suggested that nation states' efforts to create their own versions of the Internet were the beginning of the end for the Internet as we know it. \"When you have a situation where all of a sudden, everyone goes into 'tribal' mode—a German cloud, a Swiss cloud, or any other separate Internet—they are significant nationalistic attempts,\" said Leighton. \"What happened with Snowden, it's more of an excuse than a policy, it's more of an excuse to re-nationalize the Internet.\"\n\nIn March 2014, \"The New York Times\" reported that economic fallout from Snowden's leaks had been a boon for foreign companies, to the detriment of U.S. firms. Daniel Castro, a senior analyst at the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, predicted that the United States cloud computing industry could lose $35 billion by 2016. Matthias Kunisch, a German software executive who switched from U.S. cloud computing providers to Deutsche Telekom, said that due to Snowden his customers thought American companies had connections to the NSA. Security analysts estimated that U.S. tech companies had since Snowden collectively spent millions and possibly billions of dollars adding state-of-the-art encryption features to consumer services and to the cables that link data centers.\n\nIn July 2014, the nonpartisan New America Foundation summarized the impact of Snowden's revelations on U.S. businesses. The erosion of trust, said the report, has had serious consequences for U.S. tech firms. IT executives in France, Hong Kong, Germany, the UK, and the U.S. confirmed that Snowden's leaks directly impacted how companies around the world think about information and communication technologies, particularly cloud computing. A quarter of British and Canadian multinational companies surveyed were moving their data outside the U.S. Among U.S. companies attributing drops in revenue to, in part, fallout from Snowden's leaks were Cisco Systems, Qualcomm, IBM, Microsoft, and Hewlett-Packard. Proposed laws in more than a dozen foreign countries, including Germany, Brazil, and India, would make it harder for U.S. firms to do business there. The European Union is considering stricter domestic privacy legislation that could result in fines and penalties costing U.S. firms billions of dollars.\n\nIn August 2014, Massachusetts-based web intelligence firm Recorded Future announced it had found a direct connection between Snowden's leaks and dramatic changes in how Islamist terrorists interacted online. (In 2010, the privately held Recorded Future received an investment from In-Q-Tel, a nonprofit venture capital firm whose primary partner is the CIA.) Just months after Snowden's 2013 leaks, said Recorded Future, operatives of al-Qaeda and associated groups completely overhauled their 7-year-old encryption methods, which included \"homebrewed\" algorithms, adopting instead more sophisticated open-source software and newly available downloads that enabled encryption on cellphones, Android products, and Macs, to help disguise their communications.\n\nIn September 2014, Seattle-based Deep Web and Dark web monitoring firm Flashpoint Global Partners published a report that found \"very little open source information available via jihadi online social media\" indicating that Snowden's leaks impelled al-Qaeda to develop more secure digital communications. \"The underlying public encryption methods employed by online jihadists,\" the report concluded, \"do not appear to have significantly changed since the emergence of Edward Snowden. Major recent technological advancements have focused primarily on expanding the use of encryption to instant messenger and mobile communications mediums.\"\n\nIn May 2015, \"The Nation\" reported, \"The fallout from the Edward Snowden fiasco wasn't just political—it was largely economic. Soon after the extent of the NSA's data collection became public, overseas customers (including the Brazilian government) started abandoning U.S.-based tech companies in droves over privacy concerns. The dust hasn't settled yet, but tech-research firm Forrester estimated the losses may total 'as high as $180 billion,' or 25 percent of industry revenue.\"\n\nIn September 2014, \"The New York Times\" credited Apple Inc.'s update of iOS 8, which encrypts all data inside it, as demonstrating how Snowden's impact had begun to work its way into consumer products. His revelations, said \"The Times\", \"not only killed recent efforts to expand the law, but also made nations around the world suspicious that every piece of American hardware and software—from phones to servers made by Cisco Systems—have 'back doors' for American intelligence and law enforcement.\" \"The Times\" situated this development within a \"Post Snowden Era\" in which Apple would no longer comply with NSA and law enforcement requests for user data, instead maintaining that Apple doesn't possess the key to unlock data on the iPhone. However, since the new security protects information stored on the device itself, but not data stored on Apple's iCloud service, Apple will still be able to obtain some customer information stored on iCloud in response to government requests. \"The Times\" added that Google's Android would have encryption enabled by default in upcoming versions.\n"}
{"id": "30000346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30000346", "title": "Spite plateau", "text": "Spite plateau\n\nThe Spite plateau (or Spite lithium plateau) is a baseline in the abundance of lithium found in old stars orbiting the galactic halo. It was named after the astronomers François and Monique Spite, who published the discovery in 1982.\n\nThe element lithium was first produced during the Big Bang that created the observable universe. The cosmic abundance of lithium is of interest because it provides several constraints to the various Big Bang models. Those models that fail to satisfy these constraints are therefore subject to rejection or correction by the scientific community.\n\nLithium is readily consumed by fusion with protons at temperatures above , such as is found in the cores of stars. Thus, if the convection zone of a main sequence star carries lithium to the core region, the abundance of lithium in the star can decrease. Likewise, lithium can be produced in interstellar matter by spallation collisions with cosmic rays, or by the evolution of stars of moderate mass.\n\nTo obtain a good estimate of the primordial abundance of lithium, astronomers François and Monique Spite measured the abundance of lithium in old, population II stars (or old halo stars). Such stars were formed early in the universe out of material that had not been significantly modified by other processes. Their results showed that the curve on a graph of the abundance of lithium versus effective surface temperature formed a plateau among old halo stars for effective temperatures below about:\nor roughly 5,600 K. This suggested that the plateau represented the primordial abundance level of lithium in the Milky Way, and thus they were able to estimate that the abundance of lithium at the beginning of the galaxy was:\nwhere \"N\" is the abundance of hydrogen.\n\nThe current estimates for the primordial abundance of lithium, as measured by this technique, are in tension with the predictions of the standard model of Big Bang nucleosynthesis, a discrepancy known as the Lithium Problem.\n"}
{"id": "40339742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40339742", "title": "State 8", "text": "State 8\n\nThe State 8 is a peakbagging list of the highest peaks in each of Australia's states:\n"}
{"id": "11890785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11890785", "title": "Summer solstice", "text": "Summer solstice\n\nThe summer solstice (or estival solstice), also known as midsummer, occurs when one of the Earth's poles has its maximum tilt toward the Sun. It happens twice yearly, once in each hemisphere (Northern and Southern). For that hemisphere, the summer solstice is when the Sun reaches its highest position in the sky and is the day with the longest period of daylight. At the pole, there is continuous daylight around the summer solstice. On the summer solstice, Earth's maximum axial tilt toward the Sun is 23.44°. Likewise, the Sun's declination from the celestial equator is 23.44°.\n\nThe summer solstice occurs during the hemisphere's summer. This is the June solstice in the Northern Hemisphere and the December solstice in the Southern Hemisphere. Depending on the shift of the calendar, the summer solstice occurs sometime between June 20 and June 22 in the Northern Hemisphere and between December 20 and December 23 in the Southern Hemisphere. The same dates in the opposite hemisphere are referred to as the winter solstice. \n\nSince prehistory, the summer solstice has been seen as a significant time of year in many cultures, and has been marked by festivals and rituals. Traditionally, in many temperate regions (especially Europe), the summer solstice is seen as the middle of summer and referred to as \"midsummer\". Today, however, in some countries and calendars it is seen as the beginning of summer.\n\nAlthough the summer solstice is the longest day of the year for that hemisphere, the dates of earliest sunrise and latest sunset vary by a few days. This is because the earth orbits the sun in an ellipse, and its orbital speed varies slightly during the year. See the Equation of time for details.\nAlthough the sun appears at its highest altitude from the viewpoint of an observer in outer space or a terrestrial observer outside tropical latitudes, the highest altitude occurs on a different day for certain locations in the tropics, specifically those where the sun is directly overhead (maximum 90 degrees elevation) at the subsolar point. This day occurs twice each year for all locations between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn because the overhead sun appears to cross a given latitude once before the day of the solstice and once afterward. For example, Lahaina Noon occurs in May and July in Hawaii. See solstice article.\nFor all observers, the apparent position of the noon sun is at its most northerly point on the June solstice and most southerly on the December solstice.\n\n2016 was the first time in nearly 70 years that a full moon and the Northern Hemisphere's summer solstice occurred on the same day. The 2016 summer solstice's full moon rose just as the sun set.\n\nThe significance given to the summer solstice has varied among cultures, but most recognize the event in some way with holidays, festivals, and rituals around that time with themes of religion or fertility. In some regions, the summer solstice is seen as the beginning of summer and the end of spring. In other cultural conventions, the solstice is closer to the middle of summer.\n\"Solstice\" is derived from the Latin words \"sol\" (sun) and \"sistere\" (to stand still).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50594031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50594031", "title": "Türkmenbaşı Nature Park", "text": "Türkmenbaşı Nature Park\n\nTürkmenbaşı Nature Park () is a nature park located in Sarıyer district of Istanbul Province, Turkey.\n\nSituated west of Hacı Osman Bayırı Avenue in the PTT Evleri neighborhood of Büyükdere in the district of Sarıyer, it covers an area of . It was established in 1998 as a place, to dignify the cultural values shared by Turkey and Turkmenistan. It was named \"Turkmenbashi\" (literally: Head of Turkmens), in honor of Saparmurat Niyazov (1940–2006) , the leader of Turkmenistan.\n\nThe nature park offers outdoor recreation activities such as hiking and picnicing for visitors on daily basis. There is a playground for children.\n\nCommon plant of the nature park is pine. Other notable trees are oak (\"Quercus petraea\"), hornbeam (\"Carpinus betulus\"), oriental plane (\"Platanus orientalis\"), Norway spruce (\"Picea abies\"), Mediterranean cypress (\"Cupressus sempervirens\"), honeyberry, (\"Celtis australis\"), medlar (\"Mespilus germanica\"),\nshinglewood (\"Thuja plicata\") and the shrubs lavender (\"Lavandula spica\"), barberry (\"Berberis vulgaris\"), glossy abelia (\"Abelia × grandiflora\"), pittosporum (\"Pittosporum tobira\"), cherry laurel (\"Laurocerasus officinalis\"), Chinese photinia (\"Photinia serratifolia\"), strawberry tree (\"Arbutus unedo\"),\nJapanese aucuba (\"Aucuba japonica\"), fountainplant (\"Ophiopogon japonicus\").\n\nThe main fauna of the nature park consists pf bird species. Observed bird species are finch, magpie, sparrow, Western jackdaw, woodpecker. Other species are lizard and chipmunk.\n"}
{"id": "4689286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4689286", "title": "Valve audio amplifier", "text": "Valve audio amplifier\n\nA valve audio amplifier (UK) or vacuum tube audio amplifier (United States) is a valve amplifier used for sound reinforcement, sound recording and reproduction.\n\nUntil the invention of solid state devices such as the transistor, all electronic amplification was produced by valve (tube) amplifiers. While solid-state devices prevail in most audio amplifiers today, valve audio amplifiers are still used where their audible characteristics are considered pleasing, for example in music performance or music reproduction.\n\nValve amplifiers for guitars (and to a lesser degree vocals and other applications) have different purposes from those of hi-fi amplifiers. The purpose is not necessarily to reproduce sound as accurately as possible, but rather to fulfill the musician's concept of what the sound should be. For example, distortion is almost universally considered undesirable in hi-fi amplifiers but may be considered a desirable characteristic in performance.\n\nSmall signal circuits are often deliberately designed to have very high gain, driving the signal far outside the linear range of the tube circuit, to deliberately generate large amounts of harmonic distortion. The distortion and overdrive characteristics of valves are quite different from transistors (not least the amount of voltage headroom available in a typical circuit) and this results in a distinctive sound. Amplifiers for such performance applications typically retain tone and filter circuits that have largely disappeared from modern hi-fi products. Amplifiers for guitars in particular may also include a number of \"effects\" functions.\n\nThe electric guitar originates from Rickenbacker in the 1930s but its modern form was popularised by Fender and Gibson (notably the Fender Telecaster (1951) & Stratocaster (1954) and Gibson Les Paul (1952) during the 1950s. The earliest guitar amplifiers were probably audio amplifiers made for other purposes and pressed into service, but the electric guitar and its amplification quickly developed a life of its own, supported by specialist manufacturers.\n\nGuitar amplifiers are often designed so they can, when desired by the guitarist, distort and create a tone rich in harmonics and overtones. The characteristics of the tube and the circuit directly influence the nature of the sound produced. Even the power supply can influence the tonal shape, with relatively undersized power supply capacitors producing a characteristic \"sag\" at instants of peak output and power draw, and subsequent recovery, that is often considered musically engaging. In addition, guitarists may employ acoustic feedback, further modifying the resulting sound (noting that the feedback signal has a slight time lag relative to the original signal).\n\nGuitar amplifiers are typically designed to withstand a lot of abuse both electrically and physically (since guitarists often travel to gigs, etc.) In large systems the amplifier is separate from the speaker enclosure(s), but in smaller systems it is often integrated, forming a so-called \"combo\". Since the amplifier is usually at the top of the combo, the tubes often hang upside down facing the body of the enclosure. They may be held in with clips.\n\nMost modern valve guitar amplifiers use a class AB1 push-pull circuit with a pair of power pentodes or beam tetrodes, 6L6 or EL34 but occasionally KT88, 6550, or the lower-power EL84 in \"Ultra-Linear\" connection. The output stage is preceded by a voltage amplification stage (pentode or twin triode) and a phase-splitter (twin triode). Twin triodes with two identical sections in one envelope are used, usually the noval types 12AT7, 12AU7, or 12AX7 or equivalents, less usually the octal 6SN7.\n\nThe earliest mass usage of valve audio amplifiers was for telephony. Valve amplifiers were critical in development of long-distance telephone circuits and submarine telephone cables. Radio applications followed soon after, where valves were used for both the audio (AF) and radio (RF) circuitry. (RF is outside the scope of this article, see valve amplifier).\n\nAmong the first applications of sound recording and electronic replay around the 1920s was its use in many cinemas equipping for exhibiting the new 'talkies'. Cinema sound systems of this period were predominantly supplied by \"Westrex\", related to the Western Electric company, a telecoms supplier, who were also the makers of the 300B DHT tube that today is central to current production DH-SET audiophile amplification.\n\nAmplifiers during this period typically used Directly Heated tubes in a Class A Single-Ended Triode circuit. Power output ranged from a few watts to perhaps 20 watts for an exceptionally powerful amplifier (modern semiconductor amplifiers produce much higher power). Today this type of circuit retains a niche following at the very extreme of audiophile hi-fi, where it is often referred as DH-SET.\n\nPrior to WWII, almost all electronic amplifiers were triodes used without feedback. The inherent, albeit imperfect, linearity of tubes makes it possible to get acceptable distortion performance without correction. Amplitude distortion in a class A triode stage can be small if care is taken to prevent the anode current from becoming too small and ensuring that grid current does not flow at any point. In this case, distortion is largely relatively unobjectionable second harmonic, with percentage closely proportional to the output amplitude. Adding modest negative feedback improves linearity further. Pentodes of the same power dissipation are capable of higher output power than triodes, but distortion is higher and more objectionable.\n\nDuring the post-war period, widespread adoption of negative feedback in the push pull topology yielded greater power and linearity, notably following the publication in 1947 of the Williamson amplifier, which set the standard (and the dominant topology) for what was to follow.\n\nWidespread adoption of push pull allowed smaller (and thus cheaper) transformers, combined with more power (typically 10 to 20 watts) to handle peaks. The high fidelity industry was born.\n\nOther developments included (among others):\n\nValve amplification peaked as the mainstream technology during the 1960s and 70s, with device and circuits being highly developed. There have been only minor refinements since then.\n\nThe last generation of power tubes, typified by KT66, EL34 and KT88, represent the pinnacle of the technology and of production quality. Valve amplifiers produced since that time usually use one of these tubes, which have remained in continuous production (apart from KT66) ever since. Output power was typically 20 watts, exceptionally 35W.\n\nSmall signal valves overwhelmingly changed from octal base tubes, notably the audio tube of choice, the 6SN7 family, to the smaller and cheaper noval base ECC81, ECC82, ECC83 (UK, in the US known as 12AX7,12AT7, etc.). The lower-power noval base EL84 power pentode was widely used in less expensive 10-watt ultralinear power amplifiers, still of high fidelity.\n\nCommercial tube manufacturers developed designs based on their own products, most notably the Mullard 5-10 circuit. This design and the Williamson were widely implemented and imitated, with or without crediting the originator.\n\nValve radios and amplifiers were used in automobiles until they were displaced by transistorized radios. Transistors had the major advantage of working off the voltage provided by a car battery. Early radios required a power unit to convert the battery voltage to a value high enough for the valves. Later radios used special valves that were designed to operate directly from a 12 volt supply. These later radios were hybrid designs which used transistors only for the audio output stages because a 12 volt power amplifier valve was not practical. For this and other applications, transistors are smaller, cheaper, more durable, use less power, run cooler, and do not need to warm up.\n\nSome enthusiasts prefer \"tube amps\", so a small number of valve car stereos are still made. Manufacturers include Milbert Amplifiers, Blade, Manley, and Sear Sound. Some are hybrid designs with transistors and valves.\n\nDue to the very poor technical performance of early gramophones, the lack of standardised equalisations, poor components and accessories (including loudspeakers), preamplifiers historically contained extensive and very flexible equalization and tone and filter circuits designed to adjust the frequency response of the amplifier and so the sound produced by the system.\n\nValve preamplifiers use triodes or low-noise pentodes (EF86). Mains hum from the heater filaments is a potential problem in low-level valve stages. Modern amplifiers invariably run from the mains; as there is little need to minimise costs in expensive valve amplifiers, the heater supply is often rectified and even regulated to reduce hum to an absolute minimum.\n\nA representative valve preamp from the 1950s is the Leak 'varislope' series of preamps, which included a switchable rumble filter, a switchable scratch filter with selectable slopes and corner frequency, continuously variable treble and bass tone controls and a selection of 4 different gramophone equalisations (RIAA, ortho, RCA, 78).\n\nAmplifiers from and prior to this period often have a distinctive sound that today is still widely referred to as \"valve sound\" and \"warm\". This tone is not strictly caused by the use of valves rather than transistors; it is merely a sound that was originally associated with amplifiers built using valves simply because that is what was available at the time. The origins of that particular sound are in part due to:\n\nFactors relevant to valve equipment not designed to high-fidelity standards:\n\nIn addition to a range of commodity valve amplifiers, some amplifiers were made which are still highly regarded today. Among the best known are:\n\nVarious basic circuits have been used in designs and in various approaches to construction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33970350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33970350", "title": "Yinberrie Hills Important Bird Area", "text": "Yinberrie Hills Important Bird Area\n\nThe Yinberrie Hills Important Bird Area comprise some 1050 km of rocky, tropical savanna covered, wooded hills in the lower Top End of the Northern Territory of Australia. They lie 45 km north of the town of Katherine, and about the same distance south of Pine Creek. The site is important for Gouldian finches.\n\nThe site is bounded by Nitmiluk National Park and the Arnhem Land Plateau in the east. It consists of rolling hills with thin, sandy loam soils overlaid by angular cobbles. The hills are covered by smooth-barked eucalypts with an understorey of native grasses. They are drained by a network of ephemeral streams which retain water through the dry season in small, scattered pools. Mean annual rainfall in the area is about 1000 mm, falling mainly from December to March. Key features of the habitat for the finches are that the lack of grazing, and few extensive hot fires, allow native grasses to seed; the persistent waterholes provide drinking water; the cavity-bearing trees provide nesting sites; and the perennial grasses on the adjacent lowlands provide seed during the wet season. Land tenure is primarily Aboriginal freehold land held by the Barnjarn Aboriginal Corporation and Wagiman Aboriginal Land Trust.\n\nThe site has been identified as an Important Bird Area (IBA) by BirdLife International principally because it is home to a population of endangered Gouldian finches. It also supports chestnut-backed buttonquails, bush stone-curlews, varied lorikeets, northern rosellas, hooded parrots, white-gaped, yellow-tinted, bar-breasted and banded honeyeaters, masked and long-tailed finches, and silver-crowned friarbirds. Other birds occasionally recorded from the IBA include the Australasian bittern, partridge pigeon, yellow-rumped munia and the northern subspecies of the crested shrike-tit.\n"}
