{"id": "29865528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29865528", "title": "After the Development of Agriculture", "text": "After the Development of Agriculture\n\nAfter the Development of Agriculture (A.D.A.) is a system for counting years forward from 8000 BCE. It was developed in feminist thealogy. It is not often used.\n\n\"In 1978, artist and intellectual Merlin Stone advocated that feminists adopt a new dating system, according to which 1978 was 9978 ADA—After the Development of Agriculture\". Stone criticized \"Christian dating [because it] skews time in a manner that makes the A.D. era the 'real' time and the B.C. era, which is enormously larger, 'a vast emptiness of the unknown or unreal. \"Stone uses a dating system that counts 8000 B.C.E.—when women presumably invented agriculture—as the year zero.\" Stone said it was the midpoint of the 2,000–year-long proto-Neolithic period (Stone's classification of the period). \"Others in the feminist spirituality movement have adopted her dating convention as a more 'feminized' way of reckoning history than the standard one that counts from the advent of Jesus.\" The \"system [was meant] to reflect the cultural accomplishments of women.\"\n\nWhether agriculture began 8,000 years before the Common Era may not be agreed with among scholars, but it is close to some estimates. It also did not begin in all places at the same time.\n\nThe A.D.A. calendar system is not often used.\n\n"}
{"id": "7989613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7989613", "title": "Anubhava Mantapa", "text": "Anubhava Mantapa\n\nAnubhava Mantapa (Kannada: ಅನುಭವ ಮಂಟಪ) is a first parliament in the world whose literal meaning is \"experience center\" was an academy of mystics, saints and philosophers of the Veerashaivafaith in the 12th century. It was the fountainhead of all religious and philosophical thought pertaining to the veerashaiva. It was presided over by the mystic Allama Prabhu and numerous Sharanas from all over Karnataka and other parts of India were participants. This institution was also the fountainhead of the Vachana literature which was used as the vector to propagate Veerashaiva religious and philosophical thought. Other giants of veerashaiva theosophy like Akka Mahadevi, Channabasavanna and Basavanna himself were participants in the Anubhava Mantapa. The Anubhava Mantapa also called as the Mahaamane.\n\nAnubhava Mantapa was an academy of mystics, saints and philosophers of the ‘veerashaiva’ faith in the 12th century. It was the fountainhead of all religious and philosophical thought pertaining to the Human Values, Ethics. It was presided over by the mystic Allama Prabhu and numerous Sharanas from all over Karnataka and other parts of India were participants. The Sharanas belong to the lower strata of the society basically called the Shuydras and the Dalits in the Varna System of Hinduism. Sudras and Dalits where provided equal opportunities by the social reformer Basaveshwara and made them to depend on their own work, think rational and contribute back to society through Dashoha. This institution was also the fountainhead of the Vachana literature which was used as the vector to propagate Sharana’s views and philosophical thought. Other Sharana’s and Sharanes theosophy like Akka Mahadevi, Channabasavanna were participants in the Anubhava Mantapa.It was a unique socio spiritual revolution to establish an egalitarian society.\n\nThe Anubhava Mantapa worked to build a Vibrant casteless, creedless Society with full of Human Values propagated through Vachanas\n\nThe movement taken over by Basava through Anubhava Mantapa became the basis of a sect of Human values. It gave rise to a system of ethics and education at once simple and exalted. It sought to inspire ideals of social and religious freedom, such as no previous faith of Earth had done. In the medieval age which was characterized by inter-communal jealousy, it helped to shed a ray of light and faith on the homes and hearts of people. But the spirit soon disappeared after the intermarriage that Basava facilitated came to an abrupt end when the couple were punished for the same by the King. The dream of the classless society was shaken and Basava soon realised the meek picture and left for Kudala Sangama and a year later died.\n\nThe movement gave a literature of considerable value in the vernacular language of the country, the literature which attained the dignity of a classical tongue. Its aim was the elimination of the barriers of caste and to remove untouchability, raising the untouchable to the equal of the high born. The sanctity of family relations and the improvement in the status of womanhood were striven for while at the same time the importance of rites and rituals, of fasts and pilgrimages was reduced. It encouraged learning and contemplation of God by means of love and faith. The excesses of polytheism were deplored and the idea of monotheism was encouraged. The movement tended, in many ways, to raise the nation generally to a higher level of capacity both in thought and action. However, the sect failed to bring about a completely classless society.\n\n"}
{"id": "21051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21051", "title": "Aurel Stein", "text": "Aurel Stein\n\nSir Marc Aurel Stein, \n\n(; 26 November 1862 – 26 October 1943) was a Hungarian-born British archaeologist, primarily known for his explorations and archaeological discoveries in Central Asia. He was also a professor at Indian universities.\n\nStein was also an ethnographer, geographer, linguist and surveyor. His collection of books and manuscripts taken from Dunhuang caves is important for the study of the history of Central Asia and the art and literature of Buddhism. He wrote several volumes on his expeditions and discoveries which include \"Ancient Khotan\", \"Serindia\" and \"Innermost Asia\".\n\nStein was born to Nathan Stein and Anna Hirschler, a Jewish couple residing in Budapest in the Austro-Hungarian Empire. His parents and his sister retained their Jewish faith but Stein and his brother, Ernst Eduard, were baptised as Lutherans, apparently to free them from the anti-semitism which would have denied them access to education and advancement. At home the family spoke German and Hungarian, the language of Hungarian nationalist revival in the 19th century, and Stein was proud of this heritage for the rest of his life. He attended Catholic and Lutheran gymnasiums in Budapest, where he mastered Greek, Latin, French, and English before going on for advanced study at Universities of Vienna, Leipzig and Tübingen. He graduated in Sanskrit and Persian and received his Ph.D. from Tübingen in 1883.\n\nIn 1884 he went to England to study oriental languages and archaeology. He became a British citizen in 1904 and made his famous expeditions with British sponsorship. In 1887, Stein went to India, where he joined the Punjab University as Registrar. Later, between 1888 and 1899, he was the Principal of Oriental College, Lahore. Stein was influenced by Sven Hedin's 1898 work \"Through Asia\". Realizing the importance of Central Asian history and archaeology he sent a proposal to the government to explore, map and study the people of Central Asia. In May 1900 he received the approval to lead an expedition to Chinese Turkestan which was strategically located in High Asia where the Russians and Germans were already taking interest.\n\nStein made four major expeditions to Central Asia—in 1900–1901, 1906–1908, 1913–1916 and 1930. He brought to light the hidden treasure of a great civilization which by then was practically lost to the world. One of his significant finds during his first journey during 1900–1901 was the Taklamakan Desert oasis of Dandan Oilik where he was able to uncover a number of relics. During his third expedition in 1913–1916, he excavated at Khara-Khoto.\n\nThe British Library's Stein collection of Chinese, Tibetan and Tangut manuscripts, Prakrit wooden tablets, and documents in Khotanese, Uyghur, Sogdian and Eastern Turkic is the result of his travels through central Asia during the 1920s and 1930s. Stein discovered manuscripts in the previously lost Tocharian languages of the Tarim Basin at Miran and other oasis towns, and recorded numerous archaeological sites especially in Iran and Balochistan.\n\nWhen Stein visited Khotan he was able to render in Persian a portion of the Shahnama after he came across a local reading the Shahnama in Turki.\n\nDuring 1901 Stein was responsible for exposing forgeries of Islam Akhun.\n\nStein's greatest discovery was made at the Mogao Caves also known as \"Caves of the Thousand Buddhas\", near Dunhuang in 1907. It was there that he discovered a printed copy of the \"Diamond Sutra\", the world's oldest printed text, dating to AD 868, along with 40,000 other scrolls (all removed by gradually winning the confidence and bribing the Taoist caretaker). He stole 24 cases of manuscripts and 4 cases of paintings and relics. He was knighted for his efforts, but Chinese nationalists dubbed him a burglar and staged protests against him. His discovery inspired other French, Russian, Japanese, and Chinese treasure hunters and explorers who also took their toll on the collection.\n\nDuring his expedition of 1906–1908 while surveying in the Kunlun Mountains of western China, Stein suffered frostbite and lost several toes on his right foot.\n\nWhen he was resting from his extended journeys into Central Asia, he spent most of his time living in a tent in the spectacularly beautiful alpine meadow called Mohanmarg which lies at the mouth atop the Sind Valley where from he translated \"Rajatarangini \" from Sanskrit to English. Stein was a lifelong bachelor, but was always accompanied by a dog named \"Dash\" (of which there were seven). \nThe fourth expedition to Central Asia, however, ended in failure. Stein did not publish any account, but others have written of the frustrations and rivalries between British and American interests in China, between Harvard's Fogg Museum and the British Museum, and finally, between Paul J. Sachs and Langdon Warner, the two Harvard sponsors of the expedition.\n\nStein died in Kabul on 26 October 1943 and is buried in Kabul's British Cemetery.\n\nStein, as well as his rivals Sven Hedin, Sir Francis Younghusband and Nikolai Przhevalsky, were active players in the British-Russian struggle for influence in Central Asia, the so-called Great Game. Their explorations were supported by the British and Russian Empires as they filled in the remaining \"blank spots\" on the maps, providing valuable information and creating \"spheres of influence\" for archaeological exploration as they did for political influence.\nThe art objects he collected are divided between the British Museum, the British Library, the Srinagar Museum, and the National Museum, New Delhi.\n\nStein received a number of honours during his career. In 1909, he was awarded the Founder's Medal by the Royal Geographical Society 'for his extensive explorations in Central Asia, and in particular his archaeological work'. In 1909, he was awarded the first Campbell Memorial Gold Medal by the Royal Asiatic Society of Bombay. He was awarded a number of other Gold Medals: the Gold Medal of the Société de Géographie in 1923; the \"Grande Médaille d’or\" of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland in 1932; and the Gold Medal of the Society of Antiquaries of London in 1935. In 1934, he was awarded the Huxley Memorial Medal of Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland.\n\nIn the 1910 King's Birthday Honours, he was appointed Companion of the Order of the Indian Empire (CIE) for his service as Inspector-General Of Education and Archaeological Surveyor in the North-West Frontier Province. Two years later, in the 1912 King's Birthday Honours, he was promoted to Knight Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire (KCIE) for his service as Superintendent of the Archaeological Department, North-West Frontier Circle.\n\nHe was made an honorary Doctor of Letters (DLitt) by the University of Oxford in 1909. He was made an honorary Doctor of Science (DSc) by the University of Cambridge in 1910. He was made an honorary Doctor of Laws (LLD) by the University of St Andrews in 1939.\n\nIn 1919, Stein became a foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 1921, he was elected Fellow of the British Academy (FBA).\n\n\nA more detailed list of Stein's publications is available in \"Handbook to the Stein Collections in the UK\", pp. 49–61.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882828", "title": "Aṅgulimāla", "text": "Aṅgulimāla\n\nAṅgulimāla (Pāli language; 'finger necklace') is an important figure in Buddhism, particularly within the Theravāda tradition. Depicted as a ruthless brigand who completely transforms after a conversion to Buddhism, he is seen as the example par excellence of the redemptive power of the Buddha's teaching and the Buddha's skill as a teacher. Aṅgulimāla is seen by Buddhists as the \"patron saint\" of childbirth and is associated with fertility in South and Southeast Asia.\n\nAṅgulimāla's story can be found in numerous sources in Pāli, Sanskrit, Tibetan and Chinese. Aṅgulimāla is born Ahiṃsaka. He grows up as an intelligent young man in Sāvatthī, and during his studies becomes the favorite student of his teacher. However, out of jealousy, fellow students set him up against his teacher. In an attempt to get rid of Aṅgūlimāla, the teacher sends him on a deadly mission to find a thousand human fingers to complete his studies. Trying to accomplish this mission, Aṅgulimāla becomes a cruel brigand, killing many and causing entire villages to emigrate. Eventually, this causes the king to send an army to catch the killer. Meanwhile, Aṅgulimāla's mother attempts to interfere, almost causing her to be killed by her son as well. The Buddha manages to prevent this, however, and uses his power and teachings to bring Aṅgulimāla to the right path. Aṅgulimāla becomes a follower of the Buddha, and to the surprise of the king and others, becomes a monk under his guidance. Villagers are still angry with Aṅgulimāla, but this is improved somewhat when Aṅgulimāla helps a mother with childbirth through an act of truth.\n\nScholars have theorized that Aṅgulimāla may have been part of a violent cult before his conversion. Indologist Richard Gombrich has suggested that he was a follower of an early form of Tantra, but this claim has been debunked. Buddhists consider Aṅgulimāla a symbol of spiritual transformation, and his story a lesson that everyone can change their life for the better, even the least likely people. This inspired the official Buddhist prison chaplaincy in the UK to name their organization after him. Moreover, Aṅgulimāla's story is referred to in scholarly discussions of justice and rehabilitation, and is seen by theologian John Thompson as a good example of coping with moral injury and an ethics of care. Aṅgulimāla has been the subject of movies and literature, with a Thai movie of the same name choosing to depict him following the earliest sources, and the book \"The Buddha and the Terrorist\" by Satish Kumar adapting the story as a non-violent response to the Global War on Terror.\n\nThe story of Aṅgulimāla is most well-known in the Theravāda tradition. Two texts in the early discourses in the Pāli language are concerned with Aṅgulimāla's initial encounter with the Buddha and his conversion, and are believed to present the oldest version of the story. The first is the Theragāthā, probably the oldest of the two, and the second is the Aṅgulimāla Sutta in the Majjhima Nikāya. Both offer a short description of Aṅgulimāla's encounter with the Buddha, and do not mention much of the background information later incorporated into the story (such as Aṅgulimāla being placed under oath by a teacher). Apart from the Pāli texts, the life of Aṅgulimāla is also described in Tibetan and Chinese texts which originate from Sanskrit. The Sanskrit collection called Saṃyuktāgama from the early Mūlasārvastivāda school, has been translated in two Chinese texts (in the 4th5th century CE) by the early Sarvāstivāda and Kāśyapīya schools and also contains versions of the story. A text translated in Chinese from the Sanskrit Ekottara Agāma by the Mahāsaṃghika school is also known. Furthermore, three other Chinese texts dealing with Aṅgulimāla have also been found, of unknown origin but different from the first three Chinese texts.\n\nApart from these early texts, there are also later renderings, which appear in the commentary to the Majjhima Nikāya attributed to Buddhaghosa (5th century CE) and the Theragāthā commentary attributed to Dhammapāla (6th century CE). The two commentaries do not appear to be independent of one another: it appears that Dhammapāla has copied or closely paraphrased Buddhaghosa, although adding explanation of some inconsistencies. The earliest accounts of Aṅgulimāla's life emphasize the fearless violence of Aṅgulimāla and, by contrast, the peacefulness of the Buddha. Later accounts attempt to include more detail and clarify anything that might not conform with Buddhist doctrine. For example, one problem that is likely to have raised questions is the sudden transformation from a killer to an enlightened disciplelater accounts try to explain this. Later accounts also include more miracles, however, and together with the many narrative details this tends to overshadow the main points of the story. The early Pāli discourses () do not provide for any motive for Aṅgulimāla's actions, other than sheer cruelty. Later texts may represent attempts by later commentators to \"rehabilitate\" the character of Aṅgulimāla, making him appear as a fundamentally good human being entrapped by circumstance, rather than as a vicious killer. In addition to the discourses and verses, there are also Jātaka tales, the Milindapañhā, and parts of the monastic discipline that deal with Aṅgulimāla, as well as the later Mahāvaṃsa chronicle.\n\nLater texts from other languages that relate Aṅgulimāla's life include the Avadāna text called Sataka, as well as a later collection of tales called \"Discourse on the Wise and the Fool\", which exists in Tibetan and Chinese. There are also travel accounts of Chinese pilgrims that mention Aṅgulimāla briefly. In addition to descriptions of the life of Aṅgulimāla, there is a Mahāyāna discourse called the Aṅgulimālīya Sūtra, which Gautama Buddha addresses to Aṅgulimāla. This is one of the Tathāgatagarbha Sūtras, a group of discourses that deal with the Buddha Nature. There is another \"sūtra\" with the same name, referred to in Chinese texts, which was used to defend the Buddhist stance against alcoholic beverages. This text has not been found, however. Apart from textual evidence, early epigraphic evidence has also been found. One of the earliest reliefs that depicts Aṅgulimāla dates from approximately 3rd century BCE.\n\nThe texts describe a previous incarnation before Aṅgulimāla met the Buddha Gautama. In this life, he was born as a man-eating king turned \"yaksha\" (, a sort of demon; ), in some texts called Saudāsa. Saudāsa develops an interest in consuming human flesh when he is served the flesh of a dead baby. When he asks for more, his subjects start to fear for their children's safety and he is driven from his own kingdom. Growing into a monster, Saudāsa meets a deity that promises Saudāsa can retrieve his status as king if he sacrifices one hundred other kings. Having killed 99 kings, a king called Sutasoma changes Saudāsa's mind and makes him a religious man, and he gives up all violence. The texts identify Sutasoma with a previous incarnation of the Buddha, and Saudāsa with a previous incarnation of Aṅgulimāla.\n\nAccording to the Ekottara Agāma, however, in a previous incarnation Aṅgulimāla is a crown prince, whose goodness and virtue irritate his enemies. When his enemies kill him, he takes a vow just before his death that he may avenge his death, and attain Nirvana in a future life under the guidance of a master. This version makes it look as though Aṅgulimāla's killing is justified.\n\nIn most texts, Aṅgulimāla is born in Sāvatthī, in the brahman (priest) caste of the Gagga clan, his father Bhaggava being the chaplain of the king of Kosala, and his mother called Mantānī. According to commentarial texts, omens seen at the time of the child's birth (the flashing of weapons and the appearance of the \"constellation of thieves\" in the sky) indicate that the child is destined to become a brigand. As the father is interpreting the omens for the king, the king asks whether the child will be a lone brigand or a band leader. When Bhaggava replies that he will be a lone brigand, the king decides to let it live.\n\nBuddhaghosa relates that the father names the child Ahiṃsaka, meaning 'the harmless one'. This is derived from the word \"ahiṃsa\" (non-violence), because no-one is hurt at his birth, despite the bad omens. The commentary by Dhammapāla states that he is initially named Hiṃsaka ('the harmful one') by the worried king, but that the name is later changed.\n\nHaving grown up, Ahiṃsaka is handsome, intelligent and well-behaved. His parents send him to Taxila to study under a well-known teacher. There he excels in his studies and becomes the teacher's favorite student, enjoying special privileges in his teacher's house. However, the other students grow jealous of Ahiṃsaka's speedy progress and seek to turn his master against him. To that end, they make it seem as though Ahiṃsaka has seduced the master's wife. Unwilling or unable to attack Ahiṃsaka directly, the teacher says that Ahiṃsaka's training as a true brahman is almost complete, but that he must provide the traditional final gift offered to a teacher and then he will grant his approval. As his payment, the teacher demands a thousand fingers, each taken from a different human being, thinking that Aṅgulimāla will be killed in the course of seeking this grisly prize. According to Buddhaghosa, Ahiṃsaka objects to this, saying he comes from a peaceful family, but eventually the teacher persuades him. But according to other versions, Ahiṃsaka does not protest against the teacher's command.\n\nIn another version of the story, the teacher's wife tries to seduce Ahiṃsaka. When the latter refuses her advances, she is spiteful and tells the teacher Ahiṃsaka has tried to seduce her. The story continues in the same way.\n\nFollowing his teacher's bidding, Aṅgulimāla becomes a highwayman, living on a cliff in a forest called Jālinī where he can see people passing through, and kills or hurts those travelers. He becomes infamous for his skill in seizing his victims. When the people start to avoid roads, he enters villages and drags people from their homes to kill them. Entire villages become abandoned. He never takes clothes or jewels from his victims, only fingers. To keep count of the number of victims that he has taken, he strings them on a thread and hangs them on a tree. However, because birds begin to eat the flesh from the fingers, he starts to wear them as a sacrificial thread. Thus he comes to be known as \"Aṅgulimāla\", meaning 'necklace of fingers'. In some reliefs, he is depicted as wearing a headdress of fingers rather than a necklace.\n\nSurviving villagers migrate from the area and complain to Pasenadi, the king of Kosala. Pasenadi responds by sending an army of 500 soldiers to hunt down Aṅgulimāla. Meanwhile, Aṅgulimāla's parents hear about the news that Pasenadi is hunting an outlaw. Since Aṅgulimāla was born with bad omens, they conclude it must be him. Although the father prefers not to interfere, the mother disagrees. Fearing for her son's life, she sets out to find her son, warn him of the king's intent and take care of him. The Buddha perceives through meditative vision () that Aṅgulimāla has slain 999 victims, and is desperately seeking a thousandth. If the Buddha is to encounter Aṅgulimāla that day, the latter will become a monk and subsequently attain \"abhiñña\". However, if Aṅgulimāla is to kill his mother instead, she will be his thousandth victim and he will be unsavable, since matricide in Buddhism is considered one of the five worst actions a person can commit.\n\nThe Buddha sets off to intercept Aṅgulimāla, despite being warned by local villagers not to go. On the road through the forest of Kosala, Aṅgulimāla first sees his mother. According to some versions of the story, he then has a moment of reconciliation with her, she providing food for him. After some deliberation, however, he decides to make her his thousandth victim. But then when the Buddha also arrives, he chooses to kill him instead. He draws his sword, and starts running towards the Buddha. But although Aṅgulimāla is running as fast as he can, he cannot catch up with the Buddha who is walking calmly. The Buddha is using some supernatural accomplishment (; ) that affects Aṅgulimāla: one text states the Buddha through these powers contracts and expands the earth on which they stand, thus keeping a distance of Aṅgulimāla. This bewilders Aṅgulimāla so much that he calls to the Buddha to stop. The Buddha then says that he himself has already stopped, and that it is Aṅgulimāla who should stop:\n\nAṅgulimāla asks for further explanation, after which the Buddha says that a good monk should control his desires. Aṅgulimāla is impressed by the Buddha's courage, and struck with guilt about what he has done. After listening to the Buddha, Aṅgulimāla reverently declares himself converted, vows to cease his life as a brigand and joins the Buddhist monastic order. He is admitted in the Jetavana monastery.\n\nMeanwhile, King Pasenadi sets out to kill Aṅgulimāla. He stops first to pay a visit to the Buddha and his followers at the Jetavana monastery. He explains to the Buddha his purpose, and the Buddha asks how the king will respond if he were to discover that Aṅgulimāla had given up the life of a highwayman and become a monk. The king says that he would salute him and offer to provide for him in his monastic vocation. The Buddha then reveals that Aṅgulimāla is sitting only a few feet away, his hair and beard shaven off, a member of the Buddhist order. The king, astounded but also delighted, addresses Aṅgulimāla by his clan and mother's name () and offers to donate robe materials to Aṅgulimāla. Aṅgulimāla, however, does not accept the gift, because of an ascetic training he observes.\n\nIn the end, the king chooses not to persecute Aṅgulimāla. This passage would agree with Buddhologist André Bareau's observation that there was an unwritten agreement of mutual non-interference between the Buddha and kings and rulers of the time.\n\nLater, Aṅgulimāla comes across a young woman undergoing difficult labor during a childbirth. Aṇgulimāla is profoundly moved by this, and understands pain and feels compassion to an extent he did not know when he was still a brigand. He goes to the Buddha and asks him what he can do to ease her pain. The Buddha tells Aṅgulimāla to go to the woman and say:\n\nAṅgulimāla points out that it would be untrue for him to say this, to which the Buddha responds with this revised stanza:\n\nThe Buddha is here drawing Angulimala's attention to his choice of having become a monk, describing this as a second birth that contrasts with his previous life as a brigand. \"Jāti\" means birth, but the word is also glossed in the Pāli commentaries as clan or lineage (). Thus, the word \"jāti\" here also refers to the lineage of the Buddhas, i.e. the monastic community.\n\nAfter Aṅgulimāla makes this \"act of truth\", the woman safely gives birth to her child. This verse later became one of the protective verses, commonly called the \"Aṅgulimāla paritta\". Monastics continue to recite the text during blessings for pregnant women in Theravāda countries, and often memorize it as part of monastic training. Thus, Aṅgulimāla is widely seen by devotees as the \"patron saint\" of childbirth. Changing from a murderer to a person seen to ensure safe childbirth has been a huge transformation.\n\nThis event helps Aṅgulimāla to find peace. After performing the act of truth, he is seen to \"bring life rather than death to the townspeople\" and people start to approach him and provide him with almsfood.\n\nHowever, a resentful few cannot forget that he was responsible for the deaths of their loved ones. With sticks and stones they attack him as he walks for alms. With a bleeding head, torn outer robe and a broken alms bowl, Aṅgulimāla manages to return to the monastery. The Buddha encourages Aṅgulimāla to bear his torment with equanimity; he indicates that Aṅgulimāla is experiencing the fruits of the karma that would otherwise have condemned him to hell. Having become an enlightened disciple, Aṅgulimāla remains firm and invulnerable in mind. According to Buddhist teachings, enlightened disciples cannot create any new karma, but they may still be subject to the effects of old karma that they once did. The effects of his karma are inevitable, and even the Buddha cannot stop them from occurring.\n\nAfter having admitted Aṅgulimāla in the monastic order, the Buddha issues a rule that from now on, no criminals should be accepted as monks in the order. Buddhaghosa states that Aṅgulimāla dies shortly after becoming a monk. After his death, a discussion arises among the monks as to what Aṅgulimāla's afterlife destination is. When the Buddha states that Aṅgulimāla has attained Nirvana, this surprises some monks. They wonder how it is possible for someone who killed so many people to still attain enlightenment. The Buddha responds that even after having done much evil, a person still has a possibility to change for the better and attain enlightenment.\n\nThe custom of the giving of goodbye gifts to one's teacher was customary in ancient India. There is an example in the \"Book of Pauṣya\" of the Vedic epic \"Mahābharatha\". Here the teacher sends his disciple Uttanka away after Uttanka has proven himself worthy of being trustworthy and in the possession of all the Vedic and Dharmashastric teachings. Uttanka says to his teacher:\n\nIndologist Friedrich Wilhelm maintains that similar phrases already occur in the \"Book of Manu\" (II,111) and in the \"Institutes of Vishnu\". By taking leave of their teacher and promising to do whatever their teacher asks of them, brings, according to the Vedic teachings, enlightenment or a similar attainment. It is therefore not unusual that Aṅgulimāla is described to do his teacher's horrible bidding—although being a good and kind person at heart—in the knowledge that in the end he will reap the highest attainment.\n\nIndologist Richard Gombrich has postulated that the story of Aṅgulimāla may be a historical encounter between the Buddha and a follower of an early Saivite or Shakti form of tantra. Gombrich reaches this conclusion on the basis of a number of inconsistencies in the texts that indicate possible corruption, and the fairly weak explanations for Aṅgulimāla's behavior provided by the commentators. He notes that there are several other references in the early Pāli canon that seem to indicate the presence of devotees of Śaiva, Kāli, and other divinities associated with sanguinary (violent) tantric practices. The textual inconsistencies discovered could be explained through this theory.\n\nThe idea that Aṅgulimāla was part of a violent cult was already suggested by the Chinese pilgrim Xuan Zang (602–64 CE). In his travel accounts, Xuan Zang states that Aṅgulimāla's was taught by his teacher that he would be born in the Brahma heaven if he killed a Buddha. A Chinese early text gives a similar description, stating that Aṅgulimāla's teacher followed the gruesome instructions of his guru, to attain immortality. Xuan Zang's suggestion was further developed by European translators of Xuan Zang's travel accounts in the early twentieth century, but partly based on translation errors. Regardless, Gombrich is the first recent scholar to postulate this idea. However, Gombrich's claim that tantric practices existed before the finalization of the canon of Buddhist discourses (two to three centuries BCE) goes against mainstream scholarship. Scholarly consensus places the arising of the first tantric cults about a thousand years later, and no corroborating evidence has been found, whether textual or otherwise, of earlier sanguinary tantric practices. Though Gombrich argues that there other, similar antinomian practices (going against moral norms) which are only mentioned once in Buddhist scriptures and for which no evidence can be found outside of the scriptures, Buddhist Studies scholars Mudagamuwa and Von Rospatt dismiss these as incorrect examples. They also take issue with Gombrich's metrical arguments, thus disagreeing with Gombrich's hypotheses with regard to Aṅgulimāla. They do consider it possible, however, that Angulimāla's violent practices were part of some kind of historical cult. Buddhist Studies scholar L. S. Cousins has also expressed doubts about Gombrich's theory.\n\nIn the Chinese translation of the Damamūkhāvadāna by Hui-chiao, as well as in archaeological findings, Aṅgulimāla is identified with the mythological Hindu king Kalmashapada or Saudāsa, known since Vedic times. Ancient texts often describe Saudāsa's life as Aṅgulimāla's previous life, and both characters deal with the problem of being a good \"brahman\".\n\nStudying art depictions in the Gandhāra region, Archeologist Maurizio Taddei theorizes that the story of Aṅgulimāla may point at an Indian mythology with regard to a \"yakṣa\" living in the wild. In many depictions Aṅgulimāla is wearing a headdress, which Taddei describes as an example of dionysian-like iconography. Art historian Pia Brancaccio argues, however, that the headdress is an Indian symbol used for figures associated with the wild or hunting. She concurs with Taddei that depictions of Aṅgulimāla, especially in Gandhāra, are in many ways reminiscent of dionysian themes in Greek art an mythology, and influence is highly likely. However, Brancaccio argues that the headdress was essentially an Indian symbol, used by artists to indicate Aṅgulimāla belonged to a forest tribe, feared by the early Buddhists who were mostly urban.\n\nAmong Buddhists, Aṅgulimāla is one of the most well-known stories. Not only in modern times: in ancient times, two important Chinese pilgrims travelling to India reported about the story, and reported about the places they visited that were associated with Aṅgulimāla's life. From a Buddhist perspective, Aṅgulimāla's story serves as an example that even the worst of people can overcome their faults and return to the right path. The commentaries uphold the story as an example of good karma destroying evil karma. Buddhists widely regard Aṅgulimāla as a symbol of complete transformation and as a showcase that the Buddhist path can transform even the least likely initiates. Buddhists have raised Aṅgulimāla's story as an example of the compassion () and supernatural accomplishment () of the Buddha. Aṅgulimāla's conversion is cited as a testimony to the Buddha's capabilities as a teacher, and as an example of the healing qualities of the teaching of the Buddha (Dharma).\n\nThrough his reply, the Buddha connects the notion of 'refraining from harming' () with \"\", which is the cause and effect of not harming. Furthermore, the story illustrates that there is spiritual power in such stillness, as the Buddha is depicted as outrunning the violent Aṅgulimāla. Though this is explained as being the result of the Buddha's supernatural accomplishment, the deeper meaning is that \"... 'the spiritually still person' can move faster than the 'conventionally active' person\". In other words, spiritual achievement is only possible through non-violence. Furthermore, this stillness refers to the Buddhist notion of liberation from karma: as long as one cannot escape from the endless law of karmic retribution, one can at least lessen one's karma by practicing non-violence. The texts describe this as form of stillness, as opposed to the continuous movement of karmic retribution.\n\nThe story of Aṅgulimāla illustrates how criminals are affected by their psycho-social and physical environment. Jungian analyst Dale Mathers theorizes that Ahiṃsaka started to kill because his meaning system had broken down. He was no longer appreciated as an academic talent. His attitude could be summarized as \"I have no value: therefore I can kill. If I kill, then that proves I have no value\". Summarizing the life of Aṅgulimāla, Mathers writes, who bridges giving and taking life.\" Similarly, referring to the psychological concept of moral injury, theologian John Thompson describes Aṅgulimāla as someone who is betrayed by an authority figure but manages to recover his eroded moral code and repair the community he has affected. Survivors of moral injury need a clinician and a community of people that face struggles together but deal with those in a safe way; similarly, Aṅgulimāla is able to recover from his moral injury due to the Buddha as his spiritual guide, and a monastic community that leads a disciplined life, tolerating hardship. Thompson has further suggested Aṅgulimāla's story might be used as a sort of narrative therapy and describes the ethics presented in the narrative as inspiring responsibility. The story is not about being saved, but rather saving oneself with help from others. \n\nEthics scholar David Loy has written extensively about Aṅgulimāla's story and the implications it has for the justice system. He believes that in Buddhist ethics, the only reason offenders should be punished is to reform their character. If an offender, like Aṅgulimāla, has already reformed himself, there is no reason to punish him, even as a deterrent. Furthermore, Loy argues that the story of Aṅgulimāla does not include any form of restorative or transformative justice, and therefore considers the story \"flawed\" as an example of justice. Former politician and community health scholar Mathura Shrestha, on the other hand, describes Aṅgulimāla's story as \"[p]robably the first concept of transformative justice\", citing Aṅgulimāla's repentance and renunciation of his former life as a brigand, and the pardon he eventually receives from relatives of victims. Writing about capital punishment, scholar Damien Horigan notes that rehabilitation is the main theme of Aṅgulimāla's story, and that witnessing such rehabilitation is the reason why King Pasenadi does not persecute Aṅgulimāla.\n\nIn Sri Lankan pre-birth rituals, when the Aṅgulimāla Sutta is chanted for a pregnant woman, it is custom to surround her with objects symbolizing fertility and reproduction, such as parts of the coconut tree and earthen pots. Scholars have pointed out that in Southeast Asian mythology, there are links between bloodthirsty figures and fertility motifs. The shedding of blood can be found in both violence and childbirth, which explains why Aṅgulimāla is both depicted as a killer and a healer with regard to childbirth.\n\nWith regard to the passage when the Buddha meets Aṅgulimāla, feminist scholar Liz Wilson concludes that the story is an example of cooperation and interdependence between the sexes: both the Buddha and Aṅgulimāla's mother help to stop him. Similarly, Thompson argues that mothers play an important role in the story, also citing the passage of the mother trying to stop Aṅgulimāla, as well as Aṅgulimāla healing a mother giving childbirth. Furthermore, both the Buddha and Aṅgulimāla take on motherly roles in the story. Although many ancient Indian stories associate women with qualities like foolishness and powerlessness, Aṅgulimāla's story accepts feminine qualities, and the Buddha acts as a wise adviser to use those qualities in a constructive way. Nevertheless, Thompson does not consider the story feminist in any way, but does argue it contains a feminine kind of ethics of care, rooted in Buddhism.\n\nThroughout Buddhist history, Aṅgulimāla's story has been depicted in many art forms, some of which can be found in museums and Buddhist heritage sites. In modern culture, Aṅgulimāla still plays an important role. In 1985, the British-born Theravāda monk Ajahn Khemadhammo founded Angulimala, a Buddhist Prison Chaplaincy organization in the UK. It has been recognized by the British government as the official representative of the Buddhist religion in all matters concerning the British prison system, and provides chaplains, counselling services, and instruction in Buddhism and meditation to prisoners throughout England, Wales, and Scotland. The name of the organization refers to the power of transformation illustrated by Aṅgulimāla's story.\nAccording to the website of the organization, \"The story of Angulimala teaches us that the possibility of Enlightenment may be awakened in the most extreme of circumstances, that people can and do change and that people are best influenced by persuasion and above all, example.\"\n\nIn popular culture, Aṅgulimāla's legend has received considerable attention. The story has been the main subject of at least three movies. In 2003, Thai director Suthep Tannirat attempted to release a film named \"Angulimala\". Over 20 conservative Buddhist organizations in Thailand launched a protest, however, complaining that the movie distorted Buddhist teachings and history, and introduced Hindu and theistic influences not found in the Buddhist scriptures. The Thai film censorship board rejected appeals to ban the film, stating it did not distort Buddhist teachings. They did insist that the director cut two scenes of violent material. The conservative groups were offended by the depiction of Aṅgulimāla as a brutal murderer, without including the history which led him to become such a violent brigand. Tannirat defended himself, however, arguing that although he had omitted interpretations from the commentaries, he had followed the early Buddhist discourses precisely. Tannirat's choice to only use the early accounts, rather than the popular tales from the commentaries, was precisely what led to the protests.\n\nAṅgulimāla has also been the subject of literary works. In 2006, peace activist Satish Kumar retold the story of Aṅgulimāla in his short book \"The Buddha and the Terrorist\". The books deals with the Global War on Terror, reshaping and combining various accounts of Aṅgulimāla, who is described as a \"terrorist\". The book emphasizes the passage when the Buddha accepts Aṅgulimāla in the monastic order, effectively preventing King Pasenadi from punishing him. In Kumar's book, this action leads to backlash from an enraged public, who demand to imprison both Aṅgulimāla and the Buddha. Pasenadi organizes a public trial in the presence of villagers and the royal court, in which the assembly can decide what to do with the two accused. In the end, however, the assembly decides to release the two, when Aṅgulimāla admits to his crimes and Pasenadi gives a speech emphasizing forgiveness rather than punishment. This twist in the story sheds a different light on Aṅgulimāla, whose violent actions ultimately lead to the trial and a more non-violent and just society. Writing about Buddhist texts and Kumar's book, Thompson reflects that \"ahiṃsa\" in Buddhism may have different shades of meaning in different contexts, and often does not mean passively standing by, or \"non-violence\" as usually understood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15918743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15918743", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Vietnam", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Vietnam\n\nThe introduction of the Bahá'í Faith in Vietnam first occurred in the 1920s, not long after French Indochina was mentioned by `Abdu'l-Bahá as a potential destination for Bahá'í teachers. After a number of brief visits from travelling teachers throughout the first half of the 20th century, the first Bahá'i group in Vietnam was established in Saigon in 1954, with the arrival of Shirin Fozdar, a Bahá'í teacher from India. The 1950s and 1960s were marked by periods of rapid growth, mainly in South Vietnam; despite the ongoing war affecting the country, the Bahá'í population surged to around 200,000 adherents by 1975. After the end of the war, Vietnam was reunified under a communist government, who proscribed the practice of the religion from 1975 to 1992, leading to a sharp drop in community numbers. Relations with the government gradually improved, however, and in 2007 the Bahá'í Faith was officially registered, followed by its full legal recognition a year later. As of 2012, it was reported that the Bahá'í community comprised about 8,000 followers.\n\nThe earliest association of Vietnam with the Bahá'í Faith was a brief mention of French Indochina—of which the country was then a part—as a destination for Bahá'í teachers in ‘Abdu'l-Bahá's \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". The specific tablet in question was written on 11 April 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919, after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. These tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on 4 April 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on 12 December 1919.\n\n\"The moment this divine Message is carried forward by the American believers from the shores of America and is propagated through the continents of Europe, of Asia, of Africa and of Australasia, and as far as the islands of the Pacific, this community will find itself securely established upon the throne of an everlasting dominion..., if some teachers go to other islands and other parts, such as the continent of Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania, also to Japan, Asiatic Russia, Korea, French Indochina, Siam, Straits Settlements, India, Ceylon and Afghanistan, most great results will be forthcoming.\"\n\n‘Abdu’l-Bahá had at one time seriously considered a voyage to India and Indochina, as reported by Shoghi Effendi in 1919, although whether such a voyage would have included the territory that would become known as Vietnam is not known.\n\nThe first Bahá'í to visit Vietnam is likely to have been , one of the first Bahá'ís of France, who undertook a number of travels around the globe at the request of 'Abdu'l-Bahá. After an initial planned visit was aborted in 1914 due to the outbreak of World War I, Dreyfus-Barney arrived in what was then French Indochina in 1920, visiting Saigon and Hanoi. Four years later in May 1924, prominent Bahá'í travelling teacher Martha Root paid a week-long visit to Saigon. During her stay, she promoted the message and principles of the religion to a number of newspapers, making friends with one Madame Boeuf, editor of an English section in \"L'Information de l'Extrême Orient\". Boeuf was sympathetic to the principles of the Bahá'í religion, and published a number of favorable French-language articles. Several other newspapers also printed articles describing Bahá'í principles, in French, Chinese and Vietnamese. A public lecture was arranged with the help of the Governor, who, when approached, \"himself telephoned the President of the largest school\" to communicate his approval. Besides these initiatives, Root made calls to nineteen schools, societies and individuals in Saigon.\n\nIn 1951, the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of India, Pakistan and Burma adopted the goal of sending pioneers to a number of cities throughout Africa and Southeast Asia, including Saigon, in response to the summons of Shoghi Effendi, then head of the Bahá'í Faith. In a letter to an individual in September of that year, Shoghi Effendi reported that there were Bahá’ís in Indochina at that time, although their settlement seems to have been short-lived; a March 1952 report stated that Indochina remained unopened to the Baha'i Faith.\n\nFollowing nearly a decade of war between colonial France and the communist Viet Minh, which ended in a decisive French defeat at the Battle of Dien Bien Phu, both sides met at the Geneva Conference on July 21, 1954. A provisional division of Vietnam was made at the 17th parallel, creating the Democratic Republic of Vietnam in the north and the State of Vietnam (later the Republic of Vietnam) in the south. Much of the development of the Bahá'í Faith during the following period took place in South Vietnam; the first Bahá'í groups in the north would not be established until 1992, long after the country's reunification.\n\nIn February 1954, Shirin Fozdar, a Bahá'í from India who had been a member of the National Spiritual Assembly there, went to Saigon to establish the religion in Indochina. On March 15, she gave a public introduction to the Baha'i Faith in a lecture at the Norodom theatre, which was given significant coverage in the Vietnamese press. During this time, Pham Huu Chu, a professor living in Saigon, became the first Vietnamese Bahá'í. Jamshed and Parvati Fozdar, members of Fozdar's family, arrived to take her place in the summer, settling into an apartment at 88 Bonard St (now Le Loi St). By the following year, there were enough Bahá'ís in Saigon to elect the country's first Local Spiritual Assembly there, on 21 April 1955. The Assembly was officially recognized by the government of South Vietnam on 20 September. Promotion of the religion in Central Vietnam led to the establishment of Vietnam's second Spiritual Assembly in the village of Trừng Giang, Quảng Nam province, in April 1957. Eight more Spiritual Assemblies were established in 1958, bringing the total to ten. Of these, most were in Central Vietnam, including those of Da Nang and Quang Ngai. Also established in that year was the Bahá'í community of Phuoc Long, where the first Bahá'í school of South Vietnam was established; several other schools were established in Central Vietnam.\n\nIn 1958 Tuskegee Airman Dempsey Morgan and his wife Adrienne, both Bahá'ís, came to Vietnam, and over succeeding years helped establish administrative procedures among the Local Spiritual Assemblies of Vietnam. During their stay in Vietnam, the Morgans also identified Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'ís Faith, with the Maitreya Buddha, who in the Buddhist tradition is the successor to Gautama Buddha and who is to appear on Earth, achieve complete enlightenment, and teach the pure dharma. During this period of growth a number of Buddhist monks also become Baha'is. The Morgan family left Vietnam for Thailand in 1959, staying for two years before continuing to Phnom Penh. They were able to visit Saigon when Rúhíyyih Khanum visited in 1961 and were able to move back to Saigon before the end of the year. There was also a local newsletter the \"Bahá'í News\" in publication by then.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1963 the Bahá'í community in South Vietnam had more than tripled (including among the Koho, Thổ, Annamese, and Cham peoples) and several schools were established. In 1957 the Bahá'í marriage certificate was recognized in Vietnam. In 1962 16 Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies formed, and by 1963 there were more than 40 (and perhaps over 100) Spiritual Assemblies in South Vietnam. By 1963 there were also 6 local Bahá'í Centers or Haziratu'l-Quds, including in Saigon and Da Nang, and more lands had been bought for future centers. As the number of Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies increased, the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Vietnam was established in 1964. One report estimated over 20,000 Bahá'ís nationwide by mid-1964, giving it the \"third largest membership among the major religions\" in South Vietnam at that time.\n\nAlthough the Bahá'í community held a generally positive relationship with the government of Ngô Đình Diệm, there is evidence of sporadic opposition at different levels during this period. One account describes government harassment of the Vietnamese Bahá'ís around 1958–59, including the imprisonment of the entire Spiritual Assembly of Saigon. On 21 April 1963, Bui Van Luong, then Diệm's Interior Minister, formally prohibited Bahá'ís from pursuing \"any religious activities in Central Vietnam and the mountainous provinces.\" Seven months later, the Diệm government was overthrown, and the prohibition of Bahá'í activities was annulled. An account reported in a Swiss Bahá'í newsletter in February 1964 claimed that Bahá'ís in Vietnam had been subject to harassment for over seven years leading up to Diệm's ouster.\n\nAs the Vietnam war continued, there were a number of American Bahá'ís who were stationed in Vietnam, but following the Bahá'í teaching of the sacredness of all life and of obedience to one's government, Bahá'ís would request to avoid being placed in a position to take the life of another, and thus American Bahá'ís served as clerks and medics as non-combatants. By April 1973, 687 Local Spiritual Assemblies had been formed, and Bahá'ís could be found in 1,685 localities. By 1975, there were an estimated 200,000 Bahá'ís in South Vietnam, and the Bahá'í community and its institutions were still experiencing growth.\n\nIn the chaos following the Fall of Saigon on April 30, 1975, the Bahá'í community was severely limited logistically. Contact had already been lost with members in outlying areas, and the national convention scheduled for that time was cancelled; the National Spiritual Assembly was instead elected via mailed-in ballots. In a 1978 report, the Universal House of Justice noted that\n\n\"In the latter part of the period under review <nowiki>[1973-1976]</nowiki> circumstances beyond the control of the Bahá'ís have hindered the completion of the goals. An administrative committee has been appointed to function on behalf of the National Spiritual Assembly.\n\nFor a time, the incoming communist government seemed to tolerate Bahá'í activities; Bahá'ís in the newly renamed Ho Chi Minh City (previously Saigon) were allowed to hold a commemoration of the Martyrdom of the Báb in July 1976, and following the setbacks of the previous years, a meeting was held the following year to elect a National Spiritual Assembly.\n\nBeginning in 1978, open practice of the Bahá'í Faith in Vietnam was officially proscribed. Bahá'ís were forbidden to meet or to practice their religion, and Bahá'í properties throughout the country were closed or confiscated. Two members of the National Spiritual Assembly who were present when the national headquarters in Ho Chi Minh City was confiscated were arrested and sent to reeducation camps. In a message sent a year later, the Universal House of Justice reported that Vietnam was among \"those countries where the Bahá'í Administration cannot operate or has had to be disbanded\". Community numbers dropped sharply during this time as thousands of Bahá'ís fled the country, arriving as refugees in the United States and other countries, where efforts were made to contact and integrate them into local Bahá'í communities. Bahá'ís in a number of countries throughout the world began sending support to those Bahá'ís who remained in Vietnam, regularly sending parcels of medicine, clothes and other necessities; some were able to visit the country and meet with Bahá'ís personally. The Bahá'ís who remained in Vietnam made appeals to the government requesting the permission to practice their religion and the return of confiscated properties, although progress was limited. At the same time, appeals for the release of Bahá'í prisoners continued, through the Bahá'í International Community and a number of governments and independent agencies. In March 1986, a copy of the Universal House of Justice's statement, \"The Promise of World Peace\", was delivered by a messenger to Mr. Bui Xuan Nhat, the Permanent Representative of Vietnam to the United Nations.\n\nThe 1990s and early 2000s saw conditions improve gradually. In 1990, H. Collis Featherstone, a Hand of the Cause, visited Vietnam, focusing his efforts on \"reinvigorating\" the Bahá'ís there. Beginning in 1992, Bahá'ís were allowed to meet in unofficial meeting halls to practice their religion quietly, and the first Bahá'í group was established in Hanoi. In 1996, the Universal House of Justice sent a message to Bahá'ís in a number of Southeast Asian countries, particularly calling \"the sorely tried, steadfast and devoted friends\" in Vietnam to demonstrate to the authorities and to their leaders that \"Bahá'ís, obedient and loyal to their governments, desire but the prosperity of their nations and the upliftment of their peoples.\"\n\nIn 2000, Bahá'ís in Da Nang were reportedly unable to obtain approval of an application for registration of official religious activities, and in 2001, the Vietnamese government reportedly turned down an attempt by the national Bahá'í community to register its activities because they \"had not yet met the administrative criteria for registration.\" The difficulties encountered by the Bahá'í community were far from unique. While Vietnam had ratified the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights(ICCPR) which has provisions for religious freedom (Article 18), and its own Constitution upholds religious freedom, the U.S. State Department reported in its \"2001 International Religious Freedom Report\" that the Vietnamese government \"continued to restrict\" certain organized activities of religious groups, noting that \"many of these restrictive powers lie principally with provincial or city people's committees, and local treatment of religious persons varied widely.\"\n\nWith time, the fortunes of the Vietnamese Bahá'í community continued to improve. Bahá'ís in Ho Chi Minh City were allowed to hold a quiet ceremony in May 2004 to mark the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the Baha'i Faith in the country. By 2006, Bahá'í community leaders reported having \"good relations with authorities\", and that the Bahá'ís \"appeared to be able to practice their faith without significant harassment.\" In November of that year, the US State Department reported that restrictions were being eased. Finally, after many years of progress, the Bahá'í community was officially registered in early 2007, receiving a certificate of operation from the governmental Committee for Religious Affairs. Following a year-long probationary period, its nine-member National Spiritual Assembly was elected and its charter adopted on 21 March 2008, at a national congress in Ho Chi Minh City coinciding with the Bahá'í holy day of Naw-Rúz. The event was attended by over 250 delegates and visitors. The National Spiritual Assembly received its certificate of national recognition in July 2008, setting the stage for Local Spiritual Assemblies to be registered as well.\n\nWith previous restrictions relaxed, the Vietnamese Bahá’í Community has continued to achieve marked progress, returning to a normal pace of activities and showing signs of growth in size, in freedom, and in institutional capacity. Soon after their community's recognition, Vietnamese Bahá'ís were granted permission to attend a major regional conference in Battambang, Cambodia, attended by over 2,000 of their co-religionists from Cambodia, Laos and Thailand. National conventions, held annually in various regions, continue to gather delegates and observers in the hundreds for the election of the National Spiritual Assembly. The fourth national convention, held in April 2011 in the southern city of Phan Thiet, gathered more than 300 Bahá’í members. The Vietnamese government also allowed members from other nations in the region, including representatives from the Bahá’í Advisory Board for Asia and its Board of Trustees for Southeast Asia, to join the event and actively participate for the first time. In May 2012, government officials granted 20 Bahá’ís permission to participate in their first collective pilgrimage to the Bahá'í World Center in Haifa, Israel. The nine-day pilgrimage allowed them to visit religious shrines and meet with fellow believers. In August of the same year, the Bahá’ís of Hanoi celebrated the 20th anniversary of the religion's establishment in that city with a day-long public celebration, attended by nearly 100 followers from the northern area of the country, 20 foreign Bahá’ís representing countries in the region, and government officials. In May 2013, Vietnamese Bahá’ís were able to send delegates to represent their country at the 11th International Bahá'í Convention in Haifa, where they participated in the election of the Universal House of Justice. Later in the same year, a number of Vietnamese Bahá'í youth joined their counterparts in Cambodia at a youth conference in Battambang.\n\nAlthough the 2005 World Christian Database estimated the Bahá'í population of Vietnam well above 300,000, the U.S. State Department estimated the Bahá'í population at around 8,000 in 2012. Regardless, the 2015 estimate from the World Religion Database, the direct successor to the World Christian Database, was of 413,000 Bahá'ís.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49204276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49204276", "title": "Brampton Jain Temple", "text": "Brampton Jain Temple\n\nBrampton Jain Temple or the Bhagwan 1008 Adinatha Swamy Jain Temple, is the first Jain temple in Canada constructed using traditional Indian architecture. The temple is located at 7875 Mayfield Road, Brampton, in Brampton, Toronto, ON Canada, L7E 0W1. The temple houses shrines for Rishabhanatha (also called \"Adinātha\").\n\nThe Greater Toronto area has the largest concentration of the followers of Jainism in Canada and has the most number of Jain temples of all Canadian cities.\n\nThere are about 10,000 Jains in Canada, mostly concentrated in one province. Two-thirds of the Jain community is concentrated in the metropolitan Toronto area. In 2011, the temple construction was overseen by Bhattarak Charukeerthi, Moodabidri from India. Many people brought their own bricks to lay for the foundation of the temple.\n\nThe temple celebrated its Pratishta Mahotsav in 2014. In 2015, 2000 people visited the temple for its anniversary celebrations, which was marked by religious discourses. MPP Dipika Damerla was present on the occasion to present Premier Kathleen Wynne's wishes to the Jain community.\n\nThe Jain temple is the first one in Canada to use traditional Indian architecture. The temple also has a Manastambh, the second Jain temple in North America to have one. A Manastambh, or Pride Pillar, indicates a loss of pride for the worshipper before entering the temple.\n\n"}
{"id": "3615293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3615293", "title": "Chumig Gyatsa", "text": "Chumig Gyatsa\n\nChumig Gyatsa is one of the 24 Buddhist Tantric places.\n\nChumig Gyatsa means 'Hundred Waters' in Tibetan. \nIt is the local name for the pilgrimage site Muktinath, a sacred place both for Hindus as well as the Buddhists, located at an altitude of 3,710 meters, at the foot of the Thorung La mountain pass (part of the Himalayas), Mustang district, Nepal. \n\n"}
{"id": "6852809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6852809", "title": "Dasatir-i-Asmani", "text": "Dasatir-i-Asmani\n\nThe Desatir or Dasātīr ( \"Ordinances\"), also known as Dasatir-i-Asmani, is a Zoroastrian mystic text written in an invented language. Although purporting to be of ancient origin, it is now generally regarded as a literary forgery, most probably authored in the 16th or 17th century by Azar Kayvan, the leader of the Illuminationist sect. Its Neoplatonic ideas have been strongly influenced by Suhravardi, and have only a tenuous connection to mainstream Zoroastrianism.\n\nThe first part of the Desatir contains sixteen sections written in an invented language which are said to have been revealed to sixteen successive prophets, starting with Mahabad, going through Zarathustra and ending with the fifth Sasan, who was supposed to have lived at the time of Khosrau II (5th–6th centuries). At the end of each section, with the exception of the last one, there is a prophecy about the next prophet. The second part of the text consists in a Persian translation of the first part, which is attributed to the fifth Sasan, but its linguistic characteristics are typical of the 16th-17th centuries, and it is most likely written by the same author.\n\nThe invented language of the first part has been called \"heavenly language\" Its grammar is largely Persian, while its vocabulary is mostly invented, although there are words that have been adapted from Persian, Hindi, Avestan, Sanskrit and Arabic.\n\nThe text, though likely composed in India, was first discovered in the Iranian city of Isfahan at the end of the 18th century by the Parsi Mulla Kaus of Bombay. An English translation was begun by the Bombay governor Jonathan Duncan, who died before bringing it to completion. The task was then taken up by Mulla Kaus's son Mulla Firuz, whose translation was published along with the original in 1818. An edited version of this was republished by Dhunjeebhoy J. Medhora in 1888, while at the same time a separate translation by Mirza Mohomed Hadi was serialised in the American \"Platonist\" magazine. Other manuscripts have subsequently been discovered.\n\nUpon its publication the text stirred controversy, some scholars at the time regarding it as a genuine ancient text on par with the Avesta, others deeming it to be a forgery. The text was accepted by both the Indian and the Iranian Zoroastrian communities as genuine, and it became popular, particularly among the Qadimi faction. The text, with its monotheistic tendency that was more akin to the religious sentiments of the West, was then used by some Bombay Parsis to mount a defence of their religion against the incipient criticism from Christian missionaries like John Wilson.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42854069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42854069", "title": "Der Tog", "text": "Der Tog\n\nDer Tog () was a Yiddish-language daily newspaper published in New York City from 1914 until 1971. The offices of \"Der Tog\" were located on the Lower East Side, at 185 and 187 East Broadway.\n\nThe newspaper's first issue was on November 5, 1914. At its peak \"Der Tog\" reached a circulation of 81,000, in 1916. It had a weekly English-language supplement entitled \"The Day\", edited by Marion Weinstein. \nIn 1919 \"Der Tog\" absorbed another Yiddish newspaper, \"Di Varhayt\" (Warheit; Wahrheit; \"The Truth\"), and between 1919 and 1922 was known as \"Der Tog, di Varhayt\". \n\nIn 1953 \"Der Tog\" merged with the \"Morgn Zshurnal\" (Morning Journal), and subsequently appeared under the title \"Der Tog Morgn Zshurnal\"; the circulation was estimated at 50,000 in 1970, and the paper ceased publication in 1971.\n\nIt was followed by Der Algemeiner Journal in 1972.\n\nThe founding of the newspaper was the project of a group of businessmen and intellectuals including Judah Leib Magnes, David Shapiro, Morris Weinberg, and Herman Bernstein. Bernstein became the paper's first editor and Shapiro assumed the role of publisher. \nStyled in its masthead as a \"newspaper for the Jewish intelligentsia,\" \"Der Tog\" sought to uphold high journalistic and literary standards, and to rise above ideological divides. \n\nUnder William Edlin, who succeeded Bernstein as editor in 1916, and the first literary editor, Benzion Hoffman (Zivion), the newspaper attracted a talented staff, including Shmuel Niger, who was its literary critic for many years. \n\nAmong the other outstanding staff writers were David Pinski, Aron Glanz (A. Leyeles), Joel Slonim, Peretz Hirshbein, and Abraham Coralnik. Other significant contributors included Chaim Zhitlowsky and Samuel Rosenfeld, as well as H. Leivick, Osip Dymov, and Ruven Ayzland. Leon Kobrin was the paper's chief fiction writer for nearly two decades; and among the more famous of other occasional literary contributors were Joseph Opatoshu and Abraham Reisen. The newspaper also published the entirety of the Bible translation by the poet Yehoash (pseudonym of Solomon Bloomgarden), and some works of Sholem Aleichem.\n\nEdlin, who had been associated with the paper from its beginnings as a news editor and a theater critic, remained editor in chief until 1925. Samuel Margoshes filled that role from 1926 until 1942. At that point Edlin came back and led the paper again, until his death, in 1947.\n\nAccording to Edlin, \"Der Tog\" was the first Yiddish newspaper to include female journalists on the editorial staff. Adella Kean-Sametkin wrote about women's issues, and Dr. Ida Badanes, about health matters; the popular fiction writer Sarah B. Smith was also a regular contributor over many years. Before making her mark as a poet, Anna Margolin (pseudonym of Rosa Lebensboym) distinguished herself as a reporter and editor for \"Der Tog\", contributing a column, \"In der froyen velt\" (In the women's world), under her actual name, and articles about women's issues under various pseudonyms, including Clara Levin.\n\n"}
{"id": "3703755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3703755", "title": "Doctor (Wildstorm)", "text": "Doctor (Wildstorm)\n\nThe Doctor is the name of several fictional characters in the Wildstorm Universe.\n\nThe Doctors are a lineage of humans who are chosen by the Earth to serve as its shaman. Each Doctor inherits the position the second their predecessor dies. When a Doctor dies, their soul joins the Garden of Ancestral Memory, a spiritual realm where the current Doctor can commune with their predecessors.\n\nThe first of the modern-day Doctors, an African-American, was a member of a group called the Changers, who were led by the superhero the High. The group's plan was to change the world by removing the structure of society itself, eliminating all crime and war in the process. The Doctor's part in the group's plan was to initiate a program of public education about the world's natural resources, such as plants and magic. However, Stormwatch attacked the group's base with a tailored acid bomb that killed the Doctor and his companions. This Doctor was seen several times afterward in the Garden of Ancestral Memory and advised Thornedike whenever needed.\n\nIn 1966, a heart surgeon became the Doctor. After acquiring his powers, the Doctor slaughtered the entire population of three countries (in alphabetical order) and fell asleep after drinking every bottle of Dom Pérignon in existence at the time. The Doctor was defeated when every active superhero on Earth joined forces to defeat him. The Doctor was stripped of his powers and imprisoned in a pocket dimension 20 million years in the past.\n\nHowever, the renegade Doctor communicated with the Earth in the present day from his prison and convinced the planet that humanity was killing it, causing mass devastation to places such as New York City and the Vatican. Jeroen Thornedike, the then-current Doctor, was forced to give his powers back to his predecessor for an hour in order to fix the damage to the Earth.\n\nAfter regaining his powers, the renegade Doctor was brought into the present where he fought the Authority. During the fight, he travelled into the past and retroactively molested the Engineer as a teenager. As he was about to win the fight, the Doctor developed fifteen extra senses, including empathy with every living creature on the planet, which overwhelmed him. Apollo and the Engineer then used the distraction from the enhanced sensory input to behead the Doctor.\nJeroen Thornedike was a Dutch former dot-com billionaire who became the Doctor after his predecessor died. At first, Jeroen refused to accept the responsibility and spent his days shooting heroin and playing Sonic the Hedgehog. Jenny Sparks and Swift attempted to recruit him into the Authority. However, Jeroen refused and teleported them away; Sparks again attempted to recruit him, shooting herself in the head to force Jeroen to use his powers to heal her. Jeroen then joined the Authority.\n\nJeroen married Courtney, a rock star, and overdosed on heroin while on his honeymoon, causing him to fall into a trance while disasters struck around the world. Jeroen was cured of his heroin addiction when Midnighter gave him a transfusion of his blood. Jeroen was later forced to relinquish his powers to the renegade Doctor in order to save the Earth and regained them when the renegade Doctor was killed.\n\nSoon afterwards, Jeroen was defeated and stripped of his powers, which were then given to The Surgeon, a modern-day French alchemist The Surgeon turned Jeroen into a doll and carried him in his pockets, using him to scrub out stains from the Surgeon's underpants. The Surgeon brought corporate contractors into the Garden of Ancestral Memory, who murdered the entities living there and later supervised the creation of a corporate religion called \"Religimon\". The Surgeon was later killed by Midnighter and Jeroen instantly recovered his powers.\n\nThornedike died from a drug overdose given to him by Rose Tattoo and his soul was captured by Henry Bendix to locate the next Doctor, Habib Ben Hassan. Jeroen’s soul was later freed by Jenny Quantum, where it then moved on and joined his predecessors in the Garden of Ancestral Memory.\nHabib ben Hassan was a young Palestinian suicide bomber. Within the first 24 hours of inheriting his powers after Thornedike's death, Habib engineered a peace in the Middle East that actually had a chance of succeeding until he was captured by Henry Bendix and imprisoned in a cell which cut him off from his powers. He was secretly freed by Jenny Quantum and joined in the battle with Bendix and his followers. During the fight, Habib redeemed Rose Tattoo, transforming her from the Spirit of Murder to the Spirit of Life.\n\nSometime later, Habib was unable to stop a cadre of clones of the High from damaging the Carrier, causing it to crash into London. After witnessing the end of the world soon afterwards, Habib committed suicide by jumping from the Carrier and dissolving into butterflies. Habib later appeared alongside Jeroen to Midnighter in a dream, ordering him to find something capable of healing the world.\n\nHowever, Habib's consciousness, badly traumatised by the Earth's present condition, manipulated Gaia Rothstein into turning herself into an island and then built itself a new body out of the vegetables and plant life from Gaia's island form. Now calling himself the Green Man, Habib vowed to save the Earth by wiping humanity from the face of the planet. Midnighter freed Gaia from Habib's enslavement and sent Habib's consciousness to the Garden of Ancestral Memory, causing the Green Man's body to collapse.\n\nThe Wildcats then searched for Habib's successor as the Doctor with the help of the spirit of former Doctor Edwin Makepeace.\n\nAuthority member Shen Li-Min (a.k.a. Swift), former friend of the last Doctor, was chosen as Habib's successor as she possessed a connection to the planet's ecosystem.\n\nDuring the \"Transfer of Power\" story arc, the members of the Authority were temporarily replaced with analogues that had roughly the same powers; the Surgeon was the Doctor's analogue.\n\nEach Doctor has the ability to alter reality by imagining something and causing reality to build it for them. As part of their position, each Doctor possesses fifteen extra senses, including empathy with every living creature on Earth. However, a Doctor's powers are disrupted if they are startled or distracted.\n\n"}
{"id": "22171236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22171236", "title": "E-sara", "text": "E-sara\n\nE-sara (Cuneiform: \"House of the Universe\"), was the temple dedicated to Inanna in Uruk by Ur-Nammu.\n\nIn the Enuma Elish, \"E-sara\" was created by Marduk at the end of Tablet IV, as he divided Tiamat into two halves, and created a \"House of Heaven\", for Anu, Bel, and Ea.\n\n"}
{"id": "47737575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47737575", "title": "Early Anatolian Animal carpets", "text": "Early Anatolian Animal carpets\n\nAnatolian animal carpets represent a special type of pile-woven carpet, woven in the geographical region of Anatolia during the Seljuq and early Ottoman period, corresponding to the 14th–16th century. Very few animal-style carpets still exist today, and most of them are in a fragmentary state. Animal carpets were frequently depicted by Western European painters of the 14th–16th century. By comparison of the few surviving carpets with their painted counterparts, these paintings helped to establish a timeline of their production, and support our knowledge about the early Turkish carpet.\n\nA traditional Chinese motif, the fight between the fenghuang, or Chinese phoenix, and the dragon, is seen in an Anatolian carpet at the Pergamon Museum, Berlin. Radiocarbon dating confirmed that the \"Dragon and Phoenix\" carpet was woven in the mid 15th century, during the early Ottoman Empire. It is knotted with symmetric knots. The Chinese motif was probably introduced into Islamic art by the Mongols, or artists working for them, during the thirteenth century.\n\nThe Dragon and Phoenix carpet lacks his original borders, and seems to be cut off at the right side. Its field is parted into two rectangular sections, each containing a yellow-groud octagon in which a Chinese dragon and a phoenix are opposed to each other in combat. Both animals are stylized in geometrical form. Their blue colours, outlined in red, contrasts well with the yellow ground of the octagon. The design of the upper octagon appears to be somewhat more compressed than the lower. The corners between the octagon and the rectangular field are filled in with red triangles and rows of white hooks on red ground, creating a reciprocal hook design. The rectangular fields are surrounded by a small guardian border showing a row of pearls in different colours. The main border has red floral tendrils composed of identical, S-like ornaments on a brown ground.\n\nThe Phoenix and Dragon carpet was first described in 1881 by Julius Lessing, and Wilhelm von Bode in 1895. Since then the Dragon and Phoenix carpet has been referred to in many books on Oriental carpets.\n\nA similar fragment was discovered in Fustat, with dragon and phoenix depicted in combat on a yellow field. The animals in this fragment are depicted in red, and outlined in blue. The minor border shows a variant of the \"kufic\" borders known from other Seljuq period carpets.\n\nAnother carpet showing two medallions with two birds besides a tree was found in the Swedish church of Marby in Jämtland province. The rug was radiocarbon dated to 1300–1420. More fragments of this type were found in Fostat, today a suburb of the city of Cairo. The Marby rug is divided into two rectangles, each containing an octagon with a tree and a pair of birds. The tree is mirrored along the horizontal middle axis of the octagon in a way which suggests its image is reflected in water.\n\nBoth the Phoenix and Dragon, and the Marby rug, have additional rows of knots on their backsides. At a distance of every 6 cm, rows of loosely tied knots of red thread are woven in. Another carpet fragment from Fustat has similar additional knots. It has been suggested that these rows of knots mark the weaver's progress during a given time. On average, the additional knots are repeated every 15 rows in the Dragon and Phoenix rug. At an estimated original width of 1 m, about 3800 knots were woven between two rows of the additional red knots, consistent with the dimensions of the carpet and the amount of knots a single weaver can tie in a carpet during a day.(Beselin 2011, p. 46–49)\n\nThe \"Dragon and Phoenix\" and the \"Marby\" rugs were the only existing examples of Anatolian animal carpets known until 1988. Since then, seven more carpets of this type have been found. They survived in Tibetan monasteries and were removed by monks fleeing to Nepal during the Chinese cultural revolution. One of these carpets was acquired by the Metropolitan Museum of Art which parallels a painting by the Sienese artist Gregorio di Cecco: \"The Marriage of the Virgin\", 1423. It shows large confronted animals, each with a smaller animal inside.\n\nThe field of an animal carpet in the Vakıflar Museum, Istanbul (Inv. No. E-1) is divided into two rectangular compartments by a band similar to its borders. An octagon containing confronted animals is inscribed into each compartment. The winged animals face a stylized tree. They show a down-turned, snout-like head, to which antler-like extensions are attached, and their body is spotted. Overall, the animals more resemble fallow deer than birds, which are usually depicted on animal carpets. Deer and fallow deer are already depicted on the borders of the Pazyryk carpet, and are frequently seen on early textiles and other objects in Anatolia and Iran. Below each deer, and above the main animal, is a bird-like quadruped.\n\nAnother animal carpet with a coarser design compared to the Vakıflar rug is at the Mevlana Museum in Konya (Balpınar, 1988, p. 62).\n\nAnother carpet in the Pergamon Museum was dated to before 1500 AD. It shows four double-headed quadrupeds within a rectangular field surrounded by an eight-pointed star. The uppermost star is cut off. The stars are framed by smaller octagonal ornaments, two at their sides, one each at the top and bottom of each star. A smaller guardian border separates the field from the main border, which shows stylized leaves adorning S-shaped ornaments. Smaller triangular elements of the design and the outlines of the animals are woven in offset knotting. By its colours, the carpet has been localized to Central Anatolia. On the reverse of the carpet, additional wefts can be seen meandering over two warps after about every 22 regular wefts. The additional weft changes its colour from yellow to red, roughly at the middle of the carpet. It has been interpreted to show a day's work of two weavers working besides each other. If taken as such, the number of knots woven by each weaver would amount to roughly 2,500 knots per day. (Beselin 2011, p. 50–1) See: knot density.\n\nThe animal carpet fragment is approximately half the original size. Its field contains two large, 16-pointed star medallions of identical design which both include an eight-pointed star within an octagon. In every second segment of the medallions two birds appear, alternating with two four-legged animals. The field between the medallions is ornamented with smaller rosettes and eight-pointed stars. Each corner contains a mosque lamp ornament. In the center of the long side an octagonal smaller medallion is inserted. The Batári-Crivelli fragment resembles the \"Dragon and Phoenix\" and \"Marby\" rugs in having a yellow ground and two large medallions as the main element of design. Chromatographic analysis of the dyes revealed yellow from an undefined plant, indigo blue, madder (Rubia tinctorum) red, a blue green derived from indigo, Dyer's weed (Reseda luteola), and Dyer's sage (Salvia fruticosa), dark brown and undyed, ivory wool. During the 13th International Congress of Turkish Art, held in Budapest on 3 September 2007, the fragment was renamed in honour of Ferenc Batári, the late curator of the carpet and textile department of the museum.\n\nOther animal carpets are at the Museum of Islamic Art, Doha and in private collections.\n\nAnimal-style carpets begin to appear in Italian paintings in the 14th, and continue to be depicted in Western European paintings throughout the 15th century. They represent the earliest Oriental carpets which were identified in Renaissance painting. The comparison of animal-style carpets on Renaissance paintings, for which the painter and the date of origin are often known, allows for the determination of a \"terminus ante quem\" date for existing carpets of similar design. Wilhelm von Bode identified a carpet on Domenico di Bartolo's 1440 painting \"The Marriage of the Foundlings\" with marked similarities to the \"Dragon and Phoenix\" carpet. This marks the beginning of the \"ante quem\" method, which was subsequently further elaborated by the \"Berlin School\" of History of Islamic Art. By this method, a variety of existing carpets could be dated by comparison to their painted counterparts.\n\nThe illustrated rugs are generally drawn by the early Renaissance painters in a simplified manner, compared to the original carpet designs. The artists may sometimes have painted the animals out of their imagination, but the general appearance of the painted rugs still resembles the originals.\n\nA general compositional analysis of the animal-style rugs from Renaissance paintings was first developed by Kurt Erdmann. The field of animal carpets is usually divided into rectangular compartments, large or small. Each compartment contains an octagon, which in turn contains animal figures of four types:\n\nAt the beginning of the 14th century, carpets with stylized single- or double-headed eagles appear. These are frequently seen in paintings of the Siena and Florence school. During the second half of the 14th century, stylized birds opposing a tree appear in Lippo Memmi's \"Virgin Mary and Child\", 1340–50, and in Sano di Pietro's \"Marriage of the Virgin\", 1448-52. Yetkin has identified a similar rug in the Vakıflar Halı Museum, Istanbul (Yetkin 1981, plate 17). The field of this rug is arranged in the common style, with birds facing a tree, but the birds are crested, and their design is more elaborate. The corners of the composition are filled with animal motifs, perhaps dragons. An animal-style rug with this more developed design appears on a painting by William Larkin (Yetkin, 1981, p. 28).\n\nA carpet fragment with a single bird with its head turned is now in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. A painted counterpart can be seen in Niccolò di Buonaccorso's \"Marriage of the Virgin\", 1380.\n\nBy the beginning of the 15th century, the variations of the animal design increase:\n\nTwo animal-style carpet fragments from Fustat were dated to the 15th century. They contain parts of a different version of the tree-and-birds pattern seen in the Marby rug. The field is no longer divided into fields, and the tree-and-paired birds pattern appear in offset rows, covering the field in endless repeat (Yetkin, 1981, p. 29, plates 18,19).\n\nA fresco in the Palais des Papes at Avignon, by Matteo di Giovanni depicts a carpet with rather indistinct bird figures in front of the Pope's throne. Written sources of the 14th century indicate that Pope Benedict XII very much liked a carpet with \"white swans\", which he had set before his throne. A painting by Giovanni di Paolo, 1440, shows an Anatolian animal style rug with birds spread before the pope's throne (Yetkin, 1981, p. 33, ill. 5 and 6).\n\nVarious examples are known of paintings with single birds in rows without the rectangular field partition. A rug in the Konya Archaeological Museum, dated to the 15th century, represents an original from this group (Yetkin, 1981, p. 31, plate 20). A painting by Jaume Huguet in the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya contains a nearly identical rug. Similar rugs can be seen in a painting by Giovanni di Paolo in the Doria Pamphilj Gallery, Rome, and in \"Madonna enthroned\" by Ambrogio Lorenzetti (Yetkin, 1981, p. 34, ill. 7 and 8). Another animal-type carpet of different design appears in Carlo Crivelli's \"Annunciation\", 1482. The design of this rug consists of stylized animal figures arranged between eight-pointed stars. A paired animal rug can be seen on Fra Angelico's San Marco Altarpiece.\n\nThe Pergamon Museum's \"Phoenix and Dragon\" finds its painted counterparts in Domenico di Bartolo's \"The Marriage of the Foundlings\" (1440) shows a very similar rug, as well as Alesso Baldovinetti's \"Tale of Saint Vincenzo Ferrerio\", and Jacopo Bellini's \"Annunciation\".\n\nThe Vakıflar Museum's animal carpet has a painted counterpart in William Larkin's \"Portrait of Dorothy Cary, later Viscountess Rochford\". The animals shown in the painted rug are very similar to the small bird-like animals in the Vakıflar carpet. As known so far, the carpet depicted in Larkin's portrait is the last of its kind, and the last animal carpet seen in a Western European painting (Balpınar, 1988, p. 62, Yetkin, 1981, p. 36).\n\nThe Batári-Crivelli fragment finds its parallel in two paintings by Carlo Crivelli, the \"Annunciation\" of 1482 in the Städel museum in Frankfurt and the \"Annunciation, with Saint Emidius\" in the National Gallery (1486). Both paintings depict a carpet with a sixteen-pointed star motif, with some compartments containing highly stylised animal motifs.\n\n"}
{"id": "56205722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56205722", "title": "Free Thought and Official Propaganda", "text": "Free Thought and Official Propaganda\n\n\"Free Thought and Official Propaganda\" is a speech (and subsequent publication) delivered in 1922 by Bertrand Russell on the importance of unrestricted freedom of expression in society, and the problem of the state and political class interfering in this through control of education, fines, economic leverage, and distortion of evidence.\n\nRussell starts out by describing the more common use of the term \"free thought\" to mean that one does not accept unquestioning belief in the popular religion of a region, or ideally of any religion at all. But he goes on to say that a more important and global kind of free thought is the freedom of pressure to believe any specific ideas, that one be allowed to have and express any opinion without penalty.\n\nHe notes that this is not allowed in any country at all, with the possible exception of China at that time. One could not, for example, immigrate to the US without swearing they are not an anarchist or polygamous, and once inside must not be communist. In Great Britain he must not express disbelief in Christianity, in Japan of Shintoism.\n\nRussell notes that countries like these may think of themselves as having freedom of expression, but that some ideas are so obviously \"monstrous and immoral\" that such tolerance does not apply to them. But, he points out, this is exactly the same view that allowed torture during the Inquisition, that all ideas must be allowed to be expressed, no matter how obviously bad.\n\nNext, Russell describes incidents in his own life that illustrate the lack of freedom of thought. \n\n\nThis repression by the political class, Russell notes, is not limited to religion. Believers in free love or communism are treated even worse.\n\nNext, Bertrand Russell describes importance of the will to doubt. In 1896, American philosopher William James had written about the will to believe, and Russell uses this as a foil to express his own opposite position. James claimed that even without (or with conflicting) evidence, one might still simply \"choose' to believe in a thing — he cites Christianity — simply because one thinks the belief has beneficial outcomes. \n\nRussell, along with Alfred Henry Lloyd and others, responds to this by describing the \"will to doubt\", the choice to remain skeptical because it is the more logical, rational position that will lead to understanding more truth, while a \"will to believe\" will inevitably bind one into untruths in some way. \"None of our beliefs are quite true; all have at least a penumbra of vagueness and error. The methods of increasing the degree of truth 18 in our beliefs are well known; they consist in hearing all sides, trying to ascertain all the relevant facts, controlling our own bias by discussion with people who have the opposite bias, and cultivating a readiness to discard any hypothesis which has proved inadequate.\"\n\nAs an example of the benefits of this kind of actual skepticism, Russell describe's Albert Einstein's overturning of the conventional wisdom of physics at that time, comparing it to Darwin contradicting Biblical literalists of the previous century. \n\nWhat, Bertrand asks, if instead of overturning physics, Einstein had proposed something equally new in the sphere of religion or politics?\n\nAssuming that the need for rational doubt or fallibilism is understood to be important, Russell then goes on to address the question of why irrational certainty is so common. He says this is largely because of three factors.\n\n"}
{"id": "31290594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31290594", "title": "Gilbert Blaize Rego", "text": "Gilbert Blaize Rego\n\nGilbert Blaize Rego (3 September 1921 – 21 June 2012) was an Indian Prelate of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nRego was born in Mumbai and was ordained a priest on 3 December 1953. Rego was appointed bishop to the Diocese of Simla and Chandigarh on 11 March 1971 and ordained bishop on 11 September 1971. Rego retired on 10 November 1999 as bishop of the Chandigarh and Simla Diocese.\n\n"}
{"id": "8432615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8432615", "title": "He Gives Us All His Love", "text": "He Gives Us All His Love\n\n\"He Gives Us All His Love\" is a song written and performed by Randy Newman. It first appeared in the 1971 film \"Cold Turkey\", for which it served as a sort of theme song and played during the opening and closing credits. \n\nThe ballad is both brief (being 1:52 in length) and very sparsely arranged. It opens with the delicate sounds of a string section and is maintained by Newman's piano in a slow \"four to the bar\" tempo.\n\nThe song is gospel-influenced and shares both musical and thematic similarities with such American hymns as \"Jesus Loves Me\". It does not, however, discuss Christian themes of redemption but merely gives a testament of faith (\"he's lookin' down on us, from up above / and he's givin' us all his love\").\n\nThe tone of the song is bittersweet; the succinct lyrics include the assertion that the divine witnesses human suffering (\"he hears the babies crying / he sees the old folks dying\") and include the implication that being seen, and loved, might comfort. More explicitly, the narrator tells the listener \"...you can lean on him.\" As Newman himself is an atheist and regularly included satire in his compositions, the song can be interpreted through that lens as a sarcastic critique of religion, as it portrays a god who witnesses human suffering but merely \"gives us all his love\" while doing nothing tangible to intervene. Its presence in the film \"Cold Turkey\" certainly supports this ironical interpretation, since the song is played over the closing credits, as the town which has tried to be smoke-free for the duration of the movie is rewarded with a new factory, spewing smoke into the atmosphere.\n\nThe song has sometimes been taken at face value, however, and has been covered by Wanda Jackson and Sherie Rene Scott, both born-again Christians.\n\nIt has also been covered by Roy Ayers, Birtles & Goble and others. Some versions are extended to four minutes or more in length and few, if any, are as brief as Newman's original rendition.\n\nIn the 2002 CD reissue of \"Sail Away\", this song is extended by three seconds.\n\nIn the belated 2007 CD issue of the \"Cold Turkey\" soundtrack (which was Newman's first film work, and had never been issued in any format to that time), the two original versions of this song as featured in the film were included (2:35\" and 2:03\"). In the first version as played over the film's opening credits, the song segues into a choral gospel number called \"I Love the Lord\"; this portion is omitted from the soundtrack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30730214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30730214", "title": "Hernán Alvarado Solano", "text": "Hernán Alvarado Solano\n\nHernán Alvarado Solano (January 26, 1946 – January 31, 2011) was the Catholic bishop of the Catholic Vicar Apostolic of Guapi, Colombia.\nAs a young boy he studied at the Minor Seminary of Ziquirá. He was a quiet boy with a strong character. He was quiet but firm.\nHe studied philosophy and theology at the Major Seminary of Bogotá.\nOrdained in 1971, Hernán Alvarado Solano was appointed bishop of the Vicar Apostolic of Guapi in 2001 and died as the bishop of his mission territory, a remote area of Colombia, cultural and politically.\n"}
{"id": "7129245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7129245", "title": "Islam in Mozambique", "text": "Islam in Mozambique\n\nIslam in Mozambique is the religion of approximately 17.9% of the total population. The vast majority of Mozambican Muslims are Sunni belonging to Shafi school of jurisprudence, although some Ismaili Shiite Muslims are also registered. The Muslims consists primarily of indigenous Mozambicans, citizens of South Asian (Indian and Pakistani) descent, and a very small number of North African and Middle Eastern immigrants.\nMozambique has long historic ties with the Muslim world. Initially by way of Sufi merchants, mostly from Yemen, and centuries after through a more organized system of coastal trading cities, more heavily influenced by the Ibadi Muslims from Oman along the shores of Eastern Africa.\n\nThe arrival of the Arab trade in Mozambique dates to the fourth Hijri century when Muslims established small emirates on the coast of East Africa. Links between Islam and the chiefly clans in Mozambique have existed since the eighth century, when Islam made inroads into the northern Mozambican coast and became associated with the Shirazi ruling elites.\n\nSince the founding of the Kilwa Sultanate in the 10th CE century by Ali ibn al-Hassan Shirazi, Islam had become a major religion in the region. The former port city of Sofala, which became famous for its trade in ivory, timber, slaves, gold (by way of Great Zimbabwe) and Iron with the Islamic Middle East and India, was one of the most important trading centers on the Mozambique coast. Sofala and much of the rest of coastal Mozambique was part of the Kilwa Sultanate from Arab arrival (believed to be the 12th century) until the Portuguese conquest in 1505.\n\nDuring the subsequent period of the Omani Al Bu Said dynasty, Muslim merchants expanded their trading zones south along the coast. It is believed that nearly all of the cities' inhabitants were Muslim before the arrival of the Portuguese in the 16th century.\n\nIslam faced serious challenges in Mozambique during the colonial era. During the \"Estado Novo\" period (1926–1974), Roman Catholicism became the dominant religion following a formal alliance (Concordat) between the Church and the government. Only with the start of the War of Liberation did the state lower its opposition to Islam and try to coopt the religion, in order to avoid an alliance between Muslims and the dissident liberation movement.\n\nSince the end of the socialist period (1989 onwards), Muslims have been able to proselytise freely and build new mosques. Muslims have also made their way into the parliament. Several South African, Kuwaiti and other Muslim agencies are active in Mozambique, with one important one being the African Muslim Agency. An Islamic University has been set up in Nampula, with a branch in Inhambane. Mozambique is also an active member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC).\n\nRather than relying on the culturally loaded notions of a \"chief\" of régulo, the FRELIMO government has preferred to use the term \"traditional authorities\" to indicate a group of chiefs and their entourage of subordinate chiefs and healers. Realizing the social importance of this group, FRELIMO gradually reinstated \"traditional authority.\"\n\nWhile the Muslim leadership in northern Mozambique seems to have recovered the \"traditional\" side of their authority and power with legal reforms, they are still largely associated with chiefship and African culture rather than Islam. Because of this they are barely able to access benefits or gain socio-political influence through Islamic platforms or organizations. This situation has been the source of their continual frustration and resistance to the alleged racial and cultural discrimination perpetrated by FRELIMO allied with southern Wahhabis, Afro-Indians, and Indians.\n\nWhereas Sudan, for instance, has made sharia the law of the land, Mozambique has made attempts to recognize both traditional and religious marriages.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7997534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7997534", "title": "Jain rituals", "text": "Jain rituals\n\nJain rituals play an everyday part in Jainism. Rituals take place daily or more often. Rituals include obligations followed by Jains and various forms of idol worships.\n\nJains rituals can be separated broadly in two parts: \"Karya\" (Obligations which are followed) and \"Kriya\" (Worships which are performed).\n\nIn Jainism, six essential duties (\"avashyakas\") are prescribed for \"śrāvakas\" (householders). The six duties are:\n\nThese duties became fundamental ritual activities of a Jain householder. Such as spreading the grain for the birds in the morning, and filtering or boiling the water for the next few hours' use became ritual acts of charity and non-violence. \"Samayika\" was used as a word for all spiritual activity including icon worship during medieval times.\n\nSamayika is the practice of equanimity, translating to meditation. It is a ritual act undertaken early in the morning and perhaps also at noon and night. It lasts for forty-eight minutes (Two Ghadis) and usually involves not only quiet recollection but also usually the repetition of routine prayers.\nThe ritual is chanting and also praying about the good things.\n\nPratikramana is performed in the morning for the repentance of violence committed during the night, and in the evening for the violence during the day and additionally on certain days of the year. During this, the Jain expresses remorse for the harm caused, or wrongdoing, or the duties left undone.\n\nThere are eleven annual obligations for a year and some obligations for once in a life which should be completed by Jain lay person individually or in a group. They are prescribed by \"Shravak Pragyapti\".\n\nThey are following:\n\nThey are the following:\n\n\"Devapuja\" means worship of tirthankaras. It is usually done in front of images of any liberated soul (Siddha) such as Tirthankara, or Arihant. In Jainism, the Tirthankaras represent the true goal of all human beings. Their qualities are worshipped by the Jains.\n\nSthanakavasi oppose idol worship. They believe in meditation and silent prayers. Jain idols are seen as a personification of ideal state which one should attain.\n\nDuring medieval period, worship of some Yaksha and Yakshini, heavenly beings who are not liberated souls, started. They are believed to help a person by removing obstacles in life.\n\nElaborate forms of ritual usually done in the temple. Jains wear clean three clothes for many rituals and enter temple with words related to respect for Tirthankara. He bows down to Tirthankara at main shrine and will circumambulate him three times.\n\nJain form of worship is also called \"Jain Puja\". The worship is done in two ways:\n\nJains worship the God, the scripture and the saint.\n\n\"Dravya puja\" (worship with articles) includes \"Ashtaprakari Puja\"(means \"eight worships\") which is done by paying homage with eight articles in prescribed way. It is also called \"archana\": The following articles are used, in the Jaina Puja:\n\nThe combination of all the eight articles is called \"arghya\". Of these, rice and coconut bits and almonds are to be washed and then all the articles are to be placed in a plate side by side, excepting water which is to be kept in a small pot separately. There should be provided a bowl for the pouring of water, another for the burning of incense, and a receptacle for lighting camphor.\n\nAfter that some Jains also use \"Chamara\" (Whisk), \"Darpana\" (Mirror) and a \"Pankho\" (Hand fan) also for worship.\n\n\"Bhava puja\"(means Psychic worship) is done by ritual called \"Chaitya Vandana\". It includes number of prayers and rituals done in prescribed manner and positions.\n\n\"Aarti\" and \"Mangal Deevo\" is a lamp ritual waving it in rotational manner in front of icons same as Hindu traditions. Lamps represent knowledge. It is performed everynight at all Jain temples.\n\nMany other forms of worships are mainly performed on special occasions.\nSome forms of worships have close relationship with these five auspicious life events of Tirthankara called Panch Kalyanaka.\n\nOthers are:\n\nBoth the Digambara and Svetambara celebrates eight-day observance (\"ashtahnika\") thrice every year. It takes place every four months, from the eighth of bright half of the months of Ashadha (June-July), Karttika (October-November), and Phalguna (February-March) through the full moon and is in direct imitation of the eight day celebrations of \"Nandishvara Dvipa\" by the god.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "86665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86665", "title": "Jim Carrey", "text": "Jim Carrey\n\nJames Eugene Carrey (born January 17, 1962) is a Canadian-American actor, comedian, impressionist, screenwriter, musician, producer and painter. He is known for his energetic slapstick performances.\n\nCarrey first gained recognition in America in 1990 after landing a recurring role in the sketch comedy television series \"In Living Color\". His first leading roles in major productions came with \"\" (1994), \"Dumb and Dumber\" (1994), \"The Mask\" (1994), and \"\" (1995), as well as a supporting role in \"Batman Forever\" (1995) and a lead role in \"Liar Liar\" (1997). He gained critical acclaim starring in serious roles in \"The Truman Show\" (1998) and \"Man on the Moon\" (1999), with each garnering him a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor.\n\nIn the 2000s, he gained further popularity for his portrayal of the Grinch in \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas\" and for the comedy \"Me, Myself & Irene\" (both in 2000), as well as \"Bruce Almighty\" (2003), \"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind\" (2004) for which he was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role, \"Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events\" (2004), \"Fun with Dick and Jane\" (2005), \"Yes Man\" (2008), \"Horton Hears a Who!\" (2008) and \"A Christmas Carol\" (2009).\n\nIn the 2010s, he has starred in \"Mr. Popper's Penguins\" (2011) and \"The Incredible Burt Wonderstone\" (2013), \"Kick-Ass 2\" (2013) and reprised his role as Lloyd Christmas in \"Dumb and Dumber To\" (2014).\n\nCarrey was born in the Toronto suburb of Newmarket, Ontario, Canada, to Kathleen (née Oram), a homemaker, and Percy Carrey, a musician and accountant. He was raised a Roman Catholic and has three older siblings: John, Patricia, and Rita. His mother was of French, Irish, and Scottish descent and his father was of French-Canadian ancestry (the family's original surname was \"Carré\").\n\nAt age 10, Carrey wrote a letter to Carol Burnett of the \"Carol Burnett Show\" pointing out that he was already a master of impressions and should be considered for a role on the show; he was overjoyed when he received a form letter reply.\n\nCarrey lived in north Scarborough, Ontario (in historic home next to the then Titan Wheels factory and attended Grade 10 at Agincourt Collegiate Institute), North York (attended Blessed Trinity Catholic Elementary School) and Burlington, Ontario for eight years, and attended Aldershot High School. In a \"Hamilton Spectator\" interview (February 2007), Carrey said, \"If my career in show business hadn't panned out I would probably be working today in Hamilton, Ontario, at the Dofasco steel mill.\" When looking across the Burlington Bay toward Hamilton, he could see the mills and thought, \"Those were where the great jobs were.\"\n\nWhile Carrey was struggling to obtain work and make a name for himself, his father tried to help the young comedian put together a stage act, driving him to Toronto to debut at comedy club Yuk Yuk's. Carrey's impersonations bombed and this gave him doubts about his capabilities as a professional entertainer. His family's financial struggles made it difficult for them to support Carrey's ambitions.\n\nEventually, the family's financial problems were resolved and they moved into a new home. With more domestic stability, Carrey returned to the stage with a more polished act. In a short period of time, he went from open-mic nights to regular paid shows, building his reputation in the process. A reviewer in the \"Toronto Star\" raved that Carrey was \"a genuine star coming to life\". Carrey was soon noticed by comedian Rodney Dangerfield, who signed the young comic to open his tour performances. Dangerfield eventually brought Carrey to Las Vegas. However, Carrey soon decided to move to Hollywood, where he began performing at The Comedy Store and, in 1982, appeared on the televised stand-up show \"An Evening at the Improv\". The following year, he debuted his act on \"The Tonight Show\".\n\nDespite his increasing popularity as a stand-up comic, Carrey turned his attention to the film and television industries, auditioning to be a cast member for the 1980–81 season of NBC's \"Saturday Night Live.\" Carrey was not selected for the position, although he later hosted the show in May 1996, January 2011, and October 2014. In 1984, Carrey was in the short-lived sitcom \"The Duck Factory\".\n\nFrom 1990 to 1994, Carrey was a regular cast member of the ensemble comedy television series \"In Living Color\".\n\n1994 was a break-out year for Carrey. He appeared in the lead roles in \"\", \"The Mask\" and \"Dumb and Dumber\". \"Dumb and Dumber\" was a commercial success, grossing over $270 million worldwide, He received his first Golden Globe Award nomination for Best Actor for his work in \"The Mask\".\n\nIn 1995, Carrey co-starred in the Joel Schumacher-directed superhero film \"Batman Forever\", in which Batman tries to stop Two-Face and the Riddler (played by Carrey) in their villainous scheme to drain information from all the brains in Gotham City. The feature received poor reviews, with most criticism aimed at the movie's \"blatant commercialism\", as characterized by Peter Travers. In that same year, Carrey reprised his role as Ace Ventura in \"\". Like the original film, it was well received by the public, but heavily criticised by critics. It was a huge box-office success, earning $212 million worldwide in addition to breaking records, with a $40 million opening weekend.\n\nCarrey earned $20 million for his next film, \"The Cable Guy\" (1996). Directed by Ben Stiller, the film was a satirical black comedy, in which Carrey played a lonely, menacing cable TV installer who infiltrates the life of one of his customers (played by Matthew Broderick). The role was a departure from the \"hapless, hyper, overconfident\" characters he had been known for. However, it did not fare well with most critics, many reacting to Carrey's change of tone from previous films. Carrey also starred in the music video of the film's closing song, \"Leave Me Alone\" by Jerry Cantrell. Despite the reviews, \"The Cable Guy\" grossed $102 million worldwide.\n\nHe soon bounced back in 1997 with the critically acclaimed comedy \"Liar Liar\", playing Fletcher Reede, a successful lawyer who has built his career on lying, regularly breaking promises that he makes to his son, Max. Max soon makes a birthday wish that for just that one day, his dad would not be able to lie. Carrey was praised for his performance, earning a second Golden Globe Award nomination for Best Actor. Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" said, \"Well into his tumultuous career, Mr. Carrey finally turns up in a straightforward comic vehicle, and the results are much wilder and funnier than this mundane material should have allowed.\"\n\nThe following year he decided to take a pay cut to play the serious role of Truman Burbank in the satirical comedy-drama film \"The Truman Show\" (1998). The film was highly praised and brought Carrey further international acclaim, leading many to believe he would be nominated for an Oscar. Eventually, he did pick up his first Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Motion Picture Drama. \"The Truman Show\" was a commercial success also, earning $264 million worldwide against a budget of $60 million.\n\nA Film4 critic stated that the film \"allows Carrey to edge away from broad comedy\", adding that it was \"a hilarious and breathtakingly conceived satire\".\n\nThat same year, Carrey appeared as a fictionalized version of himself on the final episode of Garry Shandling's \"The Larry Sanders Show\", in which he deliberately ripped into Shandling's character. In 1999, Carrey had the lead role in \"Man on the Moon\". He portrayed comedian Andy Kaufman to critical acclaim and received his second Golden Globe in a row. In addition, he received his first Screen Actors Guild Award nomination for Best Actor.\n\nIn 2000, Carrey reteamed with the Farrelly brothers, who had previously directed him in \"Dumb and Dumber\", for the black comedy film \"Me, Myself & Irene\", a film that received mixed reviews but enjoyed box office success. Carrey played the role of state trooper Charlie Baileygates, who has multiple personalities and romances a woman portrayed by Renée Zellweger. That same year, Carrey starred in the second highest-grossing Christmas film of all time, \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas\", playing the title character, for which he received both praise and criticism from critics alongside a Golden Globe nomination.\n\nFor his next feature film, Carrey starred opposite Jennifer Aniston and Morgan Freeman in Tom Shadyac's international hit comedy \"Bruce Almighty\" (2003). Carrey played a TV newsman who unexpectedly receives God's omnipotent abilities when the deity decides to take a vacation. The film received mixed reviews upon release but despite this still became a financial success, earning over $484 million worldwide, and going on to become the seventeenth highest-grossing live action comedy of all time.\n\nIn 2004, Carrey starred in \"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind\". The film received overwhelming acclaim upon release. Critics highly praised Carrey's portrayal of Joel Barish, in addition to the performance of his co-star Kate Winslet, who received an Oscar nomination. According to CNN's reviewer Paul Clinton, Carrey's performance was the actor's \"best, most mature and sharply focused performance ever\". Carrey received another Golden Globe nomination and his first BAFTA Award nomination for Best Actor.\n\nCarrey's next appearance was in the 2004 black comedy fantasy film \"Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events\", which was based on the popular children's novels of the same name. The film was positively received; Desson Thomson from \"The Washington Post\" said of Carrey's approach to the character of Count Olaf,Olaf is a humorless villain in the book. He's not amusing like Carrey at all. To which I would counter: If you can't let Carrey be Carrey, put someone boring and less expensive in the role. In his various disguises he's rubbery, inventive and improvisationally inspired. I particularly liked his passing imitation of a dinosaur. That same year, Carrey was inducted into the Canadian Walk of Fame.\n\nIn 2007, Carrey reunited with Joel Schumacher, director of \"Batman Forever\", for \"The Number 23\", a psychological thriller co-starring Virginia Madsen and Danny Huston. In the film, Carrey plays a man who becomes obsessed with the number 23, after finding a book about a man with the same obsession. The film was panned by critics. The following year Carrey provided his voice for Dr. Seuss' \"Horton Hears a Who!\" (2008). Carrey voiced the beloved elephant for the CGI-animated feature, which received overwhelmingly positive reviews and delivered family crowds en masse. The film was also a box office success, raking in over $290 million worldwide.\n\nLater that same year, Carrey returned to live-action comedy, starring opposite Zooey Deschanel and Bradley Cooper in \"Yes Man\" (2008). Carrey played down-and-out man, Carl Allen, who had gone nowhere in life, thanks to always saying no to everything, until he signs up for a self-help program that teaches him the power of saying yes. Despite reviews being mixed, Rene Rodriquez of \"The Miami Herald\" stated, \"\"Yes Man\" is fine as far as Jim Carrey comedies go, but it's even better as a love story that just happens to make you laugh.\" The film had a decent performance at the box office, earning $225 million worldwide.\n\nSince 2009, Carrey's work has included a leading role in Glenn Ficarra and John Requa's \"I Love You Phillip Morris\", premiering in January 2009 at the Sundance Film Festival before receiving a wide release in February 2010. Carrey portrayed Steven Jay Russell, a con artist, imposter, and multiple prison escapee who falls in love with his fellow inmate, Phillip Morris (played by Ewan McGregor). The film received largely positive reviews, with Damon Wise of \"The Times\" giving the film four stars out of five, stating, \"\"I Love You Phillip Morris\" is an extraordinary film that serves as a reminder of just how good Carrey can be when he's not tied into a generic Hollywood crowd-pleaser. His comic timing remains as exquisite as ever.\"\n\nFor the first time in his career, Carrey portrayed multiple characters in Disney's 3D animated take on the classic Charles Dickens tale, \"A Christmas Carol\" (2009), voicing Ebenezer Scrooge and the Ghosts of Christmas Past, Present, and Future. Directed by Robert Zemeckis, the film also starred Robin Wright Penn, Bob Hoskins, Colin Firth, Gary Oldman, and Cary Elwes. The film received reasonable reviews and was a financial success. In 2011, Carrey landed the lead role in \"Mr. Popper's Penguins\", playing Thomas \"Tom\" Popper Jr. a realtor who becomes the caretaker of a family of penguins. The film received a mixed reception upon release.\n\nIn 2013, he starred alongside former co-star Steve Carell in the Don Scardino-directed comedy film \"The Incredible Burt Wonderstone\". Carrey played Steve Gray, a dangerous street magician who overshadows the formerly successful magician Burt Wonderstone (played by Carell). The film was released in March 2013 to mixed reviews and underperformed significantly at the box office, grossing just over $27 million on a $30 million budget.\n\nIn 2013, he appeared in \"Kick-Ass 2\" as Colonel Stars and Stripes. He retracted support for the film two months prior to its release. He issued a statement via his Twitter account that, in light of the shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary, \"Now in all good conscience I cannot support that level of violence.\"\n\nPeter Farrelly said in April 2012 that Carrey and Jeff Daniels would return for a \"Dumb and Dumber\" sequel, \"Dumb and Dumber To\", with the Farrelly brothers writing and directing and a planned September 2012 production start. In June, however, Carrey's representative said Carrey had left the project because the comedian felt New Line and Warner Bros. were unenthusiastic toward it. However, on October 1, 2012, Yahoo!'s \"The Yo Show\" carried the news item that the script was complete and that the original actors, Carrey and Daniels, would be reprising their roles. The plot involved one of the characters having sired a child and needing to find them in order to obtain a kidney. \"Dumb and Dumber To\" was released in November 2014.\n\nIn March 2013, Carrey announced that he had written a children's book titled \"How Roland Rolls\", about a scared wave named Roland. He described it as \"kind of a metaphysical children's story, which deals with a lot of heavy stuff in a really childish way.\" Carrey self-published the book, which was released in September 2013.\n\nOn March 25, 2013, Carrey released a parody music video with Eels through Funny or Die, with Carrey replacing Mark Oliver Everett on vocals. The song and video, titled \"Cold Dead Hand\" and set as a musical act during the variety program \"Hee Haw\", lampoons American gun culture, and specifically former NRA spokesperson Charlton Heston.\n\nCarrey delivered the commencement address at Maharishi University of Management in Fairfield, Iowa, in May 2014 and received an honorary doctorate for his achievements as a comedian, artist, author, and philanthropist.\n\nCarrey was a producer on \"Rubble Kings\", a 2015 documentary film that depicts events preceding and following the Hoe Avenue peace meeting.\n\nOn August 29, 2014, Carrey was honored by Canada Post with a limited-edition postage stamp with his portrait on it.\n\nIn June 2017 Showtime began airing the dramedy \"I'm Dying Up Here\", for which Carrey served as the executive producer. The show, which chronicles a group of stand-up comics in 1970s Los Angeles, incorporates aspects of Carrey's own experience. In September of that year, that same network announced that he would be starring in a comedy series titled \"Kidding\", which will reunite Carrey and director Michel Gondry. By the end of 2017, it was announced that Catherine Keener would star opposite Carrey in \"Kidding\".\n\nCarrey was also the subject of two documentaries in 2017. The first, a short subject entitled \"I Needed Color\" about his lifelong passion for art, was released online in the summer. Later that year another documentary, \"Jim & Andy: The Great Beyond — Featuring a Very Special, Contractually Obligated Mention of Tony Clifton\", premiered at The Venice Film Festival and was later picked up by Netflix. The film chronicles the behind-the-scenes drama during the shooting of \"Man on the Moon\", when he never broke character as Andy Kaufman. It incorporates footage that was shot for the film's electronic press kit but ultimately pulled by Universal as they felt that it was too damaging.\n\nCarrey has battled depression and taken Prozac to deal with it. He has stated that he no longer takes medications or stimulants of any kind, including coffee.\n\nCarrey has been married twice. His first marriage was to former actress and Comedy Store waitress Melissa Womer, whom he married on March 28, 1987. Their daughter, Jane Erin Carrey, was born September 6, 1987. Jane was a 2012 contestant on \"American Idol\". Carrey and Womer divorced in 1995.\n\nA year later, on September 23, 1996, Carrey married his \"Dumb and Dumber\" co-star Lauren Holly; the marriage lasted less than a year. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, Carrey had a much-publicized, short-lived romance with his \"Me, Myself and Irene\" co-star Renée Zellweger, to whom he was engaged from 1999 to 2000.\n\nCarrey met model and actress Jenny McCarthy in 2005 and made their relationship public in June 2006. In April 2010, the two ended their relationship. Despite the split and media circulations, in October 2010 McCarthy said, \"Jim and I are still good friends\".\n\nOn September 28, 2015, Carrey's former girlfriend Cathriona White, a native of County Tipperary, Ireland, was found dead from a prescription drug overdose. The couple first met in 2012. Carrey was a pallbearer at her funeral in Cappawhite.\n\nOn September 19, 2016, Mark Burton, White's husband from 2013 until her death, filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Carrey, claiming that he had used his \"immense wealth and celebrity status\" to illegally obtain and distribute prescription drugs involved in her death. Carrey released a statement the following day: \n\nIn October 2016, White's mother, Brigid Sweetman, also filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Carrey. In this suit, Sweetman's attorney states that Carrey underwent a test for sexually transmitted infections and \"purposely hid the results from Ms. White, whom he was intimately involved with, and failed to inform her that he had tested positive for hepatitis A, HSV (herpes) I and II, and chlamydia. To make matters worse, Carrey then proceeded to have unprotected sex with Ms. White with full knowledge that he was STD positive.\" Sweetman herself later issued a statement: \"These documents show that Jim Carrey has lied to the media, the public and the court. Carrey has now been shown for what he is — a dishonest Hollywood celebrity who thinks he can say anything and fool people just because he is famous.\" The lawsuit was dismissed on January 25, 2018, and attorneys for both sides confirmed there would be no further legal proceedings.\n\nCarrey received U.S. citizenship in October 2004 and remains a dual citizen of the United States and his native Canada.\n\nCarrey believes the MMR vaccine causes autism, a fraudulent claim advanced by Andrew Wakefield so the now-discredited scientist could attempt to enrich himself. In 2009, Carrey wrote an article questioning the merits of vaccination and vaccine research for \"The Huffington Post\". With former partner Jenny McCarthy, Carrey led a \"Green Our Vaccines\" march in Washington, D.C., to advocate for the removal of toxic substances from children's vaccines, out of a belief that children had received \"too many vaccines, too soon, many of which are toxic\". The rally was criticized by David Gorski, an American surgical oncologist on \"Science-Based Medicine\" blog for being anti-vaccine, not \"pro-safe vaccine\" and by Steven Parker on WebMD website for being \"irresponsible\".\n\nOn July 1, 2015, after the signing of a new vaccination law, Carrey called California Governor Jerry Brown a \"corporate fascist\" who was poisoning children by enacting the vaccination requirements. The law disallowed religious and philosophical reasons for exemption from vaccination. Carrey was criticized for being \"ignorant when it comes to vaccines\" by Arthur Caplan, head of the Division of Medical Ethics, at New York University, and by Jeffrey Kluger, senior writer at \"Time\", who described his anti-vaccination statements as \"angry, dense and immune to reason\".\n\nCarrey believes in and advocates for the so-called \"law of attraction\". In an interview with Oprah Winfrey on February 17, 1997, he revealed that as a struggling actor he would use visualization techniques to get work. He also stated that he visualized a $10,000,000 check given to him for \"acting services rendered\", placed the check in his pocket, and seven years later received a $10,000,000 check for his role in \"Dumb and Dumber.\"\n\nCarrey practices Transcendental Meditation.\n\nCarrey has been showing his own political cartoon drawings since August 2017, including controversial renderings of White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders and President Donald Trump. His show titled \"IndigNation\" opened on October 23, 2018 at the Maccarone Gallery in Los Angeles and features 108 pen-and-ink drawings from Carrey's Twitter feed from 2016-2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "322401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322401", "title": "John Mott", "text": "John Mott\n\nJohn Raleigh Mott (May 25, 1865 – January 31, 1955) was an evangelist and long-serving leader of the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) and the World Student Christian Federation (WSCF). He received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1946 for his work in establishing and strengthening international Protestant Christian student organizations that worked to promote peace. He shared the prize with Emily Balch. From 1895 until 1920 Mott was the General Secretary of the WSCF. Intimately involved in the formation of the World Council of Churches in 1948, that body elected him as a lifelong honorary President. His best-known book, \"The Evangelization of the World in this Generation\", became a missionary slogan in the early 20th century.\n\nMott was born in Livingston Manor, New York, Sullivan County, New York on May 25, 1865, and his family moved to Postville, Iowa in September of the same year. He attended Upper Iowa University, where he studied history and was an award-winning student debater. He transferred to Cornell University, where he received his bachelor's degree in 1888. He was influenced by Arthur Tappan Pierson one of the forces behind the Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions, which was founded in 1886. Mott married Leila Ada White (1866-1952) in 1891 and had two sons and two daughters.\n\nIn 1910, Mott, an American Methodist layperson, presided at the 1910 World Missionary Conference, which was an important milestone in the modern Protestant missions movement and some say the modern ecumenical movement.\n\nMott and a colleague were offered free passage on the \"Titanic\" in 1912 by a White Star Line official who was interested in their work, but they declined and took the more humble liner the SS Lapland. According to a biography by C. Howard Hopkins, upon hearing of the news in New York City, the two men looked at each other and remarked that, \"The Good Lord must have more work for us to do.\"\n\nAfter touring Europe and promoting ecumenism, Mott traveled to Asia where, from October 1912 to May 1913, he held a series of 18 regional and national conferences, including in Ceylon, India, Burma, Malaya, China, Korea and Japan.\n\nHe also worked with Robert Hallowell Gardiner III to maintain relations with the Russian Orthodox Church, and Archbishops Tikhon after the Russian Revolution.\n\nFrom 1920 until 1928, Mott served as the WSCF Chairperson. For his labors in both missions and ecumenism, as well as for peace, some historians consider him to be \"the most widely traveled and universally trusted Christian leader of his time\".\n\nThe papers of John R. Mott are held at the Yale Divinity School Library. \n\nMott is honored with a feast day on the liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church (USA) on October 3.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37711387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37711387", "title": "Joseph Fort Newton", "text": "Joseph Fort Newton\n\nJoseph Fort Newton (1876–1950) was an American Baptist minister.\n\nHe was born in Decatur, Texas, the son of a Baptist minister turned attorney. He attended Southern Baptist Seminary, and Harvard University. While at Harvard he studied under William James. Newton held the honorary degrees of Doctor of Hebrew Literature (Coe College, 1912), Doctor of Divinity (Tufts University, 1919), Doctor of Humane Letters (Hobart and William Smith Colleges, 1926), and Doctor of Laws (Temple University, 1929).\n\nNewton was ordained a Baptist minister in 1895. He held Baptist pastorates in Texas, and led non-sectarian and Universalist congregations in Illinois and Iowa. While in Iowa, he taught English literature at the extension campus of the University of Iowa in Cedar Rapids. While in Cedar Rapids, many of Newton's sermons were published and gained wide circulation. Their popularity in England led him to be called to the pulpit of the City Temple (London) in 1916. During his four years at City Temple, he made trips throughout the British Isles and gained international fame through sermons in which he urged understanding between England and the United States as a basis of world order and abiding peace.\n\nIn 1920, Newton returned to the United States and assumed the pulpit at the Church of the Divine Paternity, New York City, NY. While there Newton served as an editor of the Christian Century, edited the \"Best Sermons of the Year\" series, and preached at colleges and universities across the United States.\n\nAt the invitation of the Diocese of Pennsylvania Bishop Thomas J. Garland, Newton entered the ministry of the Episcopal Church in September 1925, and came to the Memorial Church of St. Paul, Overbrook, Philadelphia, PA, as a \"special minister.\" He was ordained as a priest in 1926 at Christ Church, Philadelphia, PA. Newton remained at the Memorial Church of St. Paul until 1930. From 1930 to 1938, Newton assisted the Rev. Dr. John C. H. Mockridge at St. James Church, Philadelphia, PA. In 1938 he assumed the rectorship of Church of St. Luke and The Epiphany, Philadelphia, PA, where he remained until his death in 1950. In 1939, Newton was ranked among the top 5 Protestant Clergyman in the United States. From 1944 until his death, Newton reviewed religious books and wrote a Saturday sermon column for the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin. Newton authored over 30 books, perhaps his most famous being \"The Builders: A Story and Study of Freemasonry\", published in 1914, and translated into six different languages. \"The Builders\" is still regarded as one of the best books on the topic.\n\nJoseph Fort Newton was born 21 Jul 1876 in Decatur, Wise, Texas to Lee and Sue Battle Green Newton. Lee Newton was a Baptist minister and lawyer. He died when Joseph Newton was six.\n\n\nJoseph Fort Newton married Jennie Mai Deatherage (1880 – 1954) of Sanders, KY in 1900.\n\n\nRev. Newton authored a number of masonic books, including his best-known works, \"The Builders,\" published in 1914, and \"The Men’s House,\" published in 1923. He published his autobiography, \"River of Years,\" in 1944. Rev. Newton received the third degree of Freemasonry on May 28, 1902 in Friendship Lodge No. 7, Dixon, Illinois, and served the masonic Grand Lodge of Iowa as its chaplain from 1911 – 1913. \"The Builders\" has been called \"an outstanding classic in Masonic literature offering the early history of Freemasonry.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37562192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37562192", "title": "Khurshid of Tabaristan", "text": "Khurshid of Tabaristan\n\nKhurshid (Middle Persian: \"𐭧𐭥𐭫(𐭧)𐭱𐭩𐭲‎\", \"Khwar(kh)šēd\"; Tabari/, Spāhbed Khōrshīd 'General Khorshid'; 734–761), erroneously designated Khurshid II by earlier scholars, was the last Dabuyid \"ispahbadh\" of Tabaristan. He succeeded to the throne at an early age, and was supervised by his uncle as regent until he reached the age of fourteen. Khurshid tried to assert his independence from his vassalage to the Caliphate, supported various rebellions and maintained diplomatic contacts with Tang China. Finally, the Abbasids conquered his country in 759–760, and captured most members of his family. Khurshid fled to Daylam, where he ended his life.\n\nKhurshid was born in 734/735, the son of Dadhburzmihr or Dadmihr (died 740) and grandson of Farrukhan the Great (died ca. 728), the first ruler (\"ispahbadh\") of the Dabuyid dynasty from whose reign coins are known. According to the traditional account, the Dabuyids had established themselves as the quasi-independent rulers of Tabaristan in the 640s, during the tumults of the Muslim conquest of Persia and the collapse of the Sassanid Empire. They owed only the payment tribute and nominal vassalage to the Arab Caliphate, and managed, despite repeated Muslim attempts at invasion, to maintain their autonomy by exploiting the inaccessible terrain of their country. A more recent interpretation of the sources by P. Pourshariati, however, supports that Farrukhan was the one who actually established the family's rule over Tabaristan, sometime in the 670s. In earlier works on the dynasty, Khurshid is named Khurshid II, due to erroneous interpretation of numismatic evidence, which led earlier scholars to interpolate a first Khurshid before Farrukhan, whose rule was thought to have begun ca. 710.\n\nKhurshid succeeded his father at the age of only six, and for eight years the regency was exercised by his uncle Farrukhan-i Kuchak (\"Farrukhan the Little\"). When Khurshid came of age, Farrukhan's own sons refused to recognize his claim and tried to usurp the throne. Their plot was allegedly betrayed to Khurshid by a slave girl, Varmja Haraviya. With the help of the sons of his cousin Jushnas, Khurshid managed to defeat and imprison Farrukhan's sons. He later took Varmja Haraviya as his wife, while the sons of Jushnas were given high positions in the state. The historian Ibn Isfandiyar gives a vivid description of the prosperity of Tabaristan at this time, which was a major centre for textile production (including silk), and which traded with the Turks of Central Asia, probably via the Caspian Sea. Khurshid is said to have contributed to this prosperity by building numerous bazaars and caravanserais. Khurshid also tried to consolidate and even extend his royal power, and used the turmoil within the Umayyad Caliphate during the Third Islamic Civil War to this effect, rebelling against Caliph Marwan II (r. 744–750), and even sending an embassy to the Tang court in 746, which recognized him (\"king Hu-lu-ban\") as a vassal prince.\n\nDuring the Abbasid Revolution, however, he was forced to submit to the Abbasid armies under Abu Muslim. As one of Abu Muslim's vassals, he supported the latter in his quarrel with the Caliph al-Mansur (r. 754–775). After the Caliph had Abu Muslim murdered in 755, Khurshid supported the anti-Abbasid rebellion of Sunbadh, who entrusted part of Abu Muslim's treasure to Khurshid's keeping. When Sunbadh's revolt was defeated, Sunbadh fled to Tabaristan, but was killed there by one of Khurshid's cousins, ostensibly because he had failed to show the man proper respect. It is possible, however, that the murder was instigated by Khurshid, in the hope of acquiring the remainder of Abu Muslim's treasure. Al-Mansur sent his son and heir, al-Mahdi (r. 775–785), to recover the treasure of Abu Muslim. Khurshid denied having it, and al-Mansur tried to unseat Khurshid by crowning one of his cousins as \"ispahbadh\". This did not have the desired effect of challenging the loyalty of Khurshid's subjects, but Khurshid was eventually forced to accommodate the Abbasids by accepting an increase in the annual tribute, which brought it to the level paid to the Sassanids.\n\nSoon after, nevertheless, Khurshid took advantage of the rebellion of Abd al-Jabar ibn Abd al-Rahman, the governor of Khurasan, to once again throw off allegiance to the Caliphate. Al-Mansur sent an army into Tabaristan, with the intention of completely subduing the country and making it a province. Khurshid fled to the fortress of al-Tak in the mountains, where he was besieged in 759–760. Although Khurshid himself escaped to nearby Daylam, the fortress eventually fell, and with it his family fell into the hands of the Abbasids and brought to Baghdad. From Daylam, Khurshid tried to regain his kingdom. He raised an army from the mountain dwellers of the region, and invaded Tabaristan in 760. Repulsed, he returned to Daylam. After learning of his family's capture, he is said to have exclaimed \"after this there is no inclination to life and joy, and death is the very solace and respite itself\", and took poison, probably in 761.\n\nTabaristan became a regular province of the Caliphate, ruled from Amul by an Arab governor, although the local dynasties of the Bavandids, Karinids and Zarmihrids, formerly subject to the Dabuyids, continued to control the mountainous interior as tributary vassals of the Abbasid government. Coins were minted in Tabaristan in Khurshid's name until 764, whereafter the name of the Abbasid governor was substituted. As a result some earlier works also mention 767 as the date of Khurshid's death.\n\nAfter their capture, Khurshid's sons, the crown prince Dadmihr, Hormozd and Vandad-Hormozd, received Arabic names, but otherwise their fate is unknown. According to Chinese sources, on the other hand, one of them was on embassy in the Tang court at the time Tabaristan was conquered. Khurshid's daughters were distributed as concubines to members of the Abbasid dynasty. The names and genealogy of these princesses are confused, but one was taken by al-Mansur himself and another by his brother, Abbas ibn Muhammad. Al-Bakhtariyya, a daughter of Farrukhan-i Kuchak, became the concubine of al-Mahdi, and it is reported that another of al-Mahdi's concubines, Shakla, was a daughter of Khurshid. In 817, during the Fourth Islamic Civil War, the populace of Baghdad turned to their sons to make them caliphs in opposition to al-Ma'mun (r. 813–833). Al-Bakhtariyya's son al-Mansur ibn al-Mahdi refused, but his half-brother Ibrahim ibn al-Mahdi accepted and ruled as anti-caliph until 819.\n\n"}
{"id": "435476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435476", "title": "Lionel Snell", "text": "Lionel Snell\n\nRamsey Dukes is the current and most well-known pen name of Lionel Snell, a contemporary English magician, publisher and author on magic and philosophy. He has also under the pen names Lemuel Johnston, Angerford and Lea, Adamai Philotunus and Per Anum Ad Astra. His regular satirical column \"The Satanist's Diary\" was published in the magazine \"Aquarian Arrow\" during the 1980s and early 1990s under the pen name The Hon Hugo C StJ l'Estrange and included a multitude of other pen names as contributors.\n\nBorn April 1945 in Kings Langley, Hertfordshire before his family moved to the Gloucestershire, Cotswolds that year. In his youth, Snell enjoyed a series of scholarships that brought him to Emmanuel College, Cambridge, where he graduated in Pure Mathematics. His writings on Austin Osman Spare in \"Agape Occult Review\" (1972) and his magical theories published in \"SSOTBME - An Essay on Magic\" (1974) and \"Thundersqueak\" (1978) brought him into contact with the nascent chaos magic movement in the 1970s. This comparatively rigorous and modern style of magic, largely shaped by fellow scientist Peter Carroll, provided a fertile ground for his own ideas.\n\nIn 1977, he performed a well-known, but notably laborious and rarely attempted ritual called the Abramelin operation.\nSince 1972 he has written and published several books noted for their impact on late 20th-century magic and humor. \"Words Made Flesh\" (1987) was written from a more philosophical point of view and notable for its original outline of the \"information model\" theory of magic that our universe could be a virtual reality—as later explored in \"The Matrix\". It is an example of the author's ongoing studies in the relationship between magic and rationalism.\n\nDukes has worked on the subject of magic with diverse associates including the Ordo Templi Orientis and Illuminates of Thanateros.\n\nWorks include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18818379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18818379", "title": "List of Christian ska bands", "text": "List of Christian ska bands\n\nThis is a list of Christian ska bands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7662385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7662385", "title": "Mal Fletcher", "text": "Mal Fletcher\n\nMal Fletcher (born 1957 in Melbourne, Australia) is a media/social futurist and commentator, keynote speaker, author, business leadership consultant and broadcaster currently based in London. He holds joint Australian and British citizenship.\n\nFrom 1985, Fletcher was the founding National Director of Youth Alive Australia, a large faith-based organization teaching positive values to young people. Prior to the founding of the national organization, he was the State Director for Youth Alive Victoria, which began in 1981. At a time when Australia had one of the highest teenage suicide rates in the developed world, this movement – a large network of local youth groups and charities – grew from a few thousand in Melbourne to an estimated 60,000 young people across the nation in its first decade. Since that time, the movement has grown further and has helped to spark other youth movements including PlanetShakers and Hillsong United. The model has also inspired similar movements in Europe and South-East Asia.\n\nFletcher left Australia in 1994, to found Next Wave International, a communications group which helps European community organizations and charities to deal with future change and move society forward in a positive direction. Based for ten years first in Copenhagen, then in London, he also launched the Euro Youth Events network, hosting ongoing, alcohol-free concerts in eight major European capitals over ten years. He also founded the Strategic Leadership Consultation, an annual summit for European community and church leaders from 20 nations. The summit focuses on engaging the future of society in a proactive way. Guest speakers at this think-tank forum have included social justice campaigners Steve Chalke MBE, Tim Costello, OA and Dr. Joel Edwards; futurists Dr. Patrick Dixon and Dr. Tom Sine; ethics campaigner Bishop Michael_Nazir-Ali; theologian Alister McGrath and others including Reinhard Bonnke.\n\nIn 2008, he launched the 2020Plus organization to assist civic authorities, companies, charities and media groups as they prepared for rapid change during a near-global recession. The group produces research and publications dealing with future social change and innovative leadership solutions.\nSince 1997, Fletcher has also written and hosted the EDGES TV documentaries, which cover a wide range of social issues. More than 80 documentaries in the series can be seen on satellite, cable and terrestrial stations in various parts of the world. They have aired, for example, on the Nine Network and Seven Network in Australia and on SABC1 in South Africa. Since the late 1990s, they have also attracted a following on the internet.\n\nIn 2006, Fletcher also began fronting the Catalyst TV series, featuring recorded interviews with social campaigners and activists. Guests have included anti-poverty campaigner Dr. Tony Campolo, youth activist Winkie Pratney and human trafficking activist Steve Chalke MBE. The programs are broadcast mainly on satellite TV in various parts of the world.\n\nMal Fletcher's media comment on social issues has featured on BBC World News (global), BBC Breakfast TV (UK), Sky News, ABC Radio National (Australia), BBC Radio 5 Live (UK) and other TV and radio outlets and in the press. He has also written and presented for BBC Radio 4 in the UK.\n\nFletcher is the author of ten books and regularly contributes to magazines and internet publications.\n\nIn more than 25 years of leadership and keynote presenting, Fletcher has featured in marketing campaigns for such groups as the Benenden Healthcare Society and at many well-known leadership and other events, including Hillsong Conference (Australia), Grapevine (UK), Spring Harvest (UK), Rhema Conference (South Africa) and Planet Shakers (Australia).\n\nFletcher studied architecture at Deakin University in Melbourne, followed by theology and Christian apologetics. He is also an ordained Christian minister with the Australian Christian Churches, though he does not pastor a church.\n\nHe lives just outside London with his wife Davina. They have three adult children, Deanna, Grant and Jade.\n\n"}
{"id": "42471165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42471165", "title": "Martin Anstey", "text": "Martin Anstey\n\nMartin Anstey was a Bible Chronologer significant for his contribution to Biblical Literalism for successfully resolving the apparent time gaps contained within the Bible's internal chronology. In 1913 Anstey's thesis, 'The Romance of Bible Chronology' was published, explaining how subtle pieces of information within the Bible text resolve these apparent chronological gaps.\n\nHe was the brother of John Anstey and also a keen 'Anstey' genealogist, mapping many of the early branches of the Devon Ansteys. \n\nAnstey identified five apparent chronological gaps within the Bible text, that had been attempted to be resolved with varying degrees of success by previous Bible chronologers.\n\nThe five apparent chronological gaps that Anstey identified were:\n\n1. The Noah-Shem connection, which determines the exact age of Noah at the birth of Shem, (which Anstey calculated to be 502 years).\n\n2. The Terah-Abraham connection, which determines the exact age of Terah at the birth of Abraham, (which Anstey calculated to be 130 years).\n\n3. The Joseph-Moses connection, which determines the exact number of years which elapsed between the death of Joseph, with which the Chronology of the book of Genesis ends (Gen. 50:26), and the birth of Moses, with which the Chronology of the book of Exodus begins (Exodus 7:7), (which Anstey calculated to be 64 years).\n\n4. The Joshua-Judges connection, which determines the number of years that elapsed during the administration of Joshua and the Elders that survived him, between the division of the land at the end of the Seven Years' War of Conquest, with which the Chronology of the Book of Joshua ends (Joshua 14:7,10 with Numbers 10:11,12; 13:17,20), and the oppression of Cushan-Rishathaim of Mesopotamia, with which the Chronology of the Book of Judges begins (Judges 3:8), (which Anstey calculated to be 13 years).\n\n5. The Eli-Saul connection, which determines the number of years that elapsed between the death of Eli and the beginning of the reign of Saul, (which Anstey calculated to be 20 years). This is given in the summary of I Samuel 7:2.\n\nHaving resolved the apparent chronological gaps in the Bible text, Anstey was able to argue that the Bible provided a coherent yet select historical record of human civilization. Anstey's thesis also critiqued other chronological records for their chronological errors compared to the Bible text. While archaeological discoveries during the twentieth and twenty-first century have in some instances dated the arguments and data presented in Anstey's thesis, his original chronological calculations and observations remain accurate.\n\n"}
{"id": "4697470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4697470", "title": "Marunthuvazh Malai", "text": "Marunthuvazh Malai\n\nThe Marunthuvazh Malai (Tamil: மருந்துவாழ் மலை, Malayalam: മരുത്വാ മല ), also known as the Marunthu Vazhum Malai (\"the abode of medicinal herbs\"), forms the part and the southernmost tip of the Western Ghats of Agasteeswaram taluk of Kanyakumari district.\n\nAccording to tradition, the Maruthuva Malai is a fragment of the Sanjeevi Mountain, a piece of which fell down here, and it was carried by Hanuman from Mahendragiri to Lanka for healing the fatal wounds of Lakshmana, the brother of Rama, the epic hero. It stretches for more than a km, reaching a height of 800 feet at the highest point. It is about 1 km from pothaiyadi, 2 km from Swamithoppe and 11 km from Nagercoil.\n\nThis hill is also believed to be noted in Ayyavazhi mythology as Parvatha Ucchi Malai. Apart from the Mythology, this hill is historically related to the life of Vaikundar. So few theologians consider this hill as sacred and consider it one among the Ayyavazhi holy sites. Backing some quotes from Arul Nool and Akilam some even argue that Marunthuvazh Malai is one among the Vaikundapathi's. Narayana Guru attained enlightenment while undergoing penance (tapas) at this hill.\n\nThere is a mention about this Marunthu Vazh Malai in Sri Pada Sri Vallbha Charithamrutham written during thirteenth century in Sanskrit, which is a biography of Lord Sri Pada Sri Vallabha(first avatar of Sri Dattatreya). This place is mentioned as Maruthuva Malai and the legend about this mountain is captured. It is also said in the holy book that this is a Holy land and Siddhas and saints live in this Mountain\n\nwww.marunthuvazhmalai.com\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2948621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2948621", "title": "Messenger (magazine)", "text": "Messenger (magazine)\n\nMessenger of the fullness of the Gospel is a Mormon fundamentalist publication, originally printed in Birmingham, England, starting in 1991, which was in print in that country until 2001, and continues as a web-based publication. It went under the original title of \"Truth Seeker\" magazine, until it was found that there was an existing periodical that shared that name.\n\nAlthough originally printed quarterly, it was printed bi-monthly when it moved to an American-produced edition in 2003.\n\nIt was edited by a former bishop of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), along with a member who worked for the LDS Church. It is unique in being the only such Mormon fundamentalist magazine printed outside of the United States, and probably the only one edited and authored by active LDS Church members (although they were subsequently excommunicated for their beliefs). Their involvement in the magazine was possibly one of the factors that led to their excommunication from the LDS Church.\n\nIt was perhaps the first Mormon publication on the Internet, having first appeared online in 1994. However, Orson Scott Card's \"Vigor\" ezine was available in plain text on Compuserve before this.\n\nThis magazine was not, nor did it claim to be, an official publication of the LDS Church.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "847847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=847847", "title": "Michael Saso", "text": "Michael Saso\n\nMichael R. Saso (born December 7, 1930) is a professor emeritus of the Department of Religion at the University of Hawaiʻi. He is a scholar of the religious practices of Japan and China, with a particular emphasis on Taoism.\n\nHe was born in Portland, Oregon to Andrew Saso and Beatrice Saso, \"née\" Huth. He earned the following degrees: B.A., Literature, St. Clara University, 1952; M.A., Philosophy/Anthropology, Gonzaga University, 1955; M.A., Chinese Studies, Yale University, 1964; Ph.D., Classical Chinese/Anthropology, University of London 1971. He joined the University of Hawaiʻi as an associate professor in 1974, later becoming a professor of Chinese religion.\n\nSaso has translated Japanese and Chinese religious texts and related works and has written several books on Asian religion. His knowledge of Taoism and Buddhism comes from within those communities: he is an initiated Taoist priest of the Zhengyi school as well as an ordained Tendai Buddhist priest.\n\nHis first ordination, however, was as a Jesuit. He left the order in the 1960s, and in 1968 married Nariko Akimoto, with whom he had two daughters. The marriage was later annulled. Saso requested reinstatement to the Catholic priesthood in 1998 and is now connected with the New Life Center in Carmel, California, as a priest in the Diocese of San Jose.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2304973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2304973", "title": "Phil Pringle", "text": "Phil Pringle\n\nPhilip Andrew \"Phil\" Pringle OAM (born 21 May 1952) is a New Zealand-born Australian Christian evangelist. Pringle arrived in Sydney, New South Wales, from Christchurch in 1980 with his wife Chris. He is the senior pastor of C3 Church Sydney (formerly known as Christian City Church), which was started in a surf club in Dee Why before moving to a large, rented warehouse, after an initial attempt at planting a church in the Sydney suburb of Roseville.\nHe is the founder of C3 Church Global, a church planting movement. He is also the founder and president of Oxford Falls Grammar School, Sydney.\n\nPringle is an advisory pastor of City Harvest Church in Singapore and a long-time friend and mentor of that organisation's leader, Kong Hee. Pringle is a member of the board of directors of Dr Yongii Cho's organisation \"Church Growth International.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47241285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47241285", "title": "Protestantism in Honduras", "text": "Protestantism in Honduras\n\nAccording to the Latinobarómetro Corporation in \"The Religions in the Times of the Pope Francisco\", 41% of the population in Honduras is \"Evangelical\" while 47% is \"Catholic\".\n\nAccording to the CIA \"World Factbook\", 3% of Hondurans declared themselves as Protestant and 97% as Catholic. A CID-Gallup report in 2007 showed that Protestants comprise 36%.\n\n"}
{"id": "15845939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15845939", "title": "Présent", "text": "Présent\n\nPrésent is a French newspaper (published five days a week). The paper was founded in 1982. It is close to the French Front National, and follows a traditionalist Catholic editorial line. Jean Madiran was for long its editor in chief and is still involved in it.\n\n"}
{"id": "25887371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25887371", "title": "Psilocybe angustipleurocystidiata", "text": "Psilocybe angustipleurocystidiata\n\nPsilocybe angustipleurocystidiata is a Mexican species of entheogenic mushroom in the family Hymenogastraceae. It contains the compounds psilocybin and psilocin.\n\nThis mushroom was first described by Mexican mycologist Gaston Guzman. \"Psilocybe angustipleurocystidiata\" has been found in the state of Mexico, Morelos and Vera Cruz, where it is common in subtropical \"Pinus\" and \"Alnus\" forests at elevations between .\n\n\"Psilocybe angustipleurocystidiata\" is in the section \"Zapotecorum\" of the genus \"Psilocybe\", other members of this section include \"Psilocybe muliercula\", \"Psilocybe aucklandii\", \"Psilocybe collybioides\", \"Psilocybe graveolens\", \"Psilocybe kumaenorum\", \"Psilocybe zapotecorum\", \"Psilocybe pintonii\", \"Psilocybe subcaerulipes\", \"Psilocybe moseri\", \"Psilocybe zapotecoantillarum\", \"Psilocybe zapotecocaribaea\", and \"Psilocybe antioquiensis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27504270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27504270", "title": "Psychoactive cactus", "text": "Psychoactive cactus\n\nMany cacti are known to be psychoactive, containing phenethylamine alkaloids such as mescaline However, the two main ritualistic (folkloric) genera are \"Echinopsis\", of which the most psychoactive species is the San Pedro cactus (\"Echinopsis pachanoi\", syn. \"Trichocereus pachanoi\"), and \"Lophophora\", with peyote (\"Lophophora williamsii\") being the most psychoactive species. Several other species pertaining to other genera are also psychoactive, though not always used with a ritualistic intent.\n\nSeveral world regions have historically used psychoactive cacti for their properties, particularly Indigenous peoples from Central and South America, such as in Mexico and the Andes region.\nFor this purpose (which includes commercial harvesting) cacti plants are specifically grown in the millions. Lophophora williamsii (peyote) is used by the Native American Church (aka Peyotism).\n\n\nOther \"peyotes\"\n\n\nOther North American psychoactive and/or medicinal cacti-\n\n\n\nOther South American psychoactive and/or medicinal cacti\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39776004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39776004", "title": "Pushpadanta", "text": "Pushpadanta\n\nIn Jainism, Puṣpadanta (), also known as Suvidhinatha, was the ninth Tirthankara of the present age (\"Avasarpini\"). According to Jain belief, he became a siddha and an arihant, a liberated soul that has destroyed all of its karma.\n\nPuṣpadanta, also known as Suvidhinatha, was the ninth Tirthankara of the present age (\"Avasarpini\"). According to Jain belief, he became a siddha and an arihant, a liberated soul that has destroyed all of its karma.\n\nPuṣpadanta was born to King Sugriva and Queen Rama at Kakandi (modern Khukhundoo, Deoria, Uttar Pradesh) to the Ikshvaku dynasty. His birth date was the fifth day of the Margshrsha Krishna month of the Vikram Samvat. Puṣpadanta was the ninth Tirthankara who re-established the four-part sangha in the tradition started by Rishabhanatha. Pushpadanta is associated with Alligator emblem, Malli tree, Ajita Yaksha and Mahakali (Dig.) & Sutaraka (Svet.) Yakshi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52410157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52410157", "title": "Qianliyan", "text": "Qianliyan\n\nQianliyan is a Chinese sea and door god. He usually appears with Shunfeng'er as a guardian of the temples of the sea goddess Mazu.\n\nThe name \"Qianliyan\" literally means \"He of the Thousand-Mile\" or \"League Eyes\" but may be taken more generally as \"Hawkeye\", \"Lynx-Eyed\", \"Far-Seeing\", or even \"All-Seeing\" or \"Clairvoyant\" as a distance of 1,000 li was idiomatic in Chinese for any great distance. It also appears as and His partner Shunfeng'er's name similarly means \"Sharp-Eared\" or \"All-Hearing\".\n\nUnder the Ming, Qianliyan was also known as LiLou. \n\nQianliyan is first attested in the early-16th century novel \"Journey to the West\", where he appears as the personified form of the Taoist Jade Emperor's eyes and one of his lieutenants. There is, however, an earlier depiction of him in the caves of Shimen \"Shíménshān\") in Sichuan which has been dated to the Southern Song. The Chinese folk tale about the Ten Brothers also probably long predates its first publication during the Ming Dynasty; in it, the eldest two brothers have powers just like those of Qianliyan and Shunfeng'er.\n\nQianliyan next appeared as a lieutenant of the Emperor of Flowering Brightness \"Huáguāng Dàdì\") in Yu Xiangdou's \"Journey to the South\" and as a character in Xu Zhonglin's \"Creation of the Gods\". He was confused with the door god Shenshu \"Shēnshū\") and, particularly, gradually conflated with the earlier sea god Zhaobao Qilang \"Zhāobǎo Qīláng\") as he was supplanted by the cult of Mazu.\n\nQianliyan's sharp vision is employed to help protect sailors at night and during fog and other inclement weather. In some accounts, he is capable of seeing everything in the world.\n\nQianliyan is most often portrayed as a demon defeated and tamed or befriended by the sea goddess Mazu. By one account, he and Shunfeng'er appeared off Meizhou Island during a storm and were defeated by Mazu's magical silk scarf, which blew clouds of sand into their eyes and ears. After their submission, they pledged their loyalty when she kindly healed them of the damage she had caused them. In another, the two were Song generals who competed for her hand at Peach Blossom Mountain \"Táohuā Shān\") but were both defeated by her kung fu. In another, the two were the brothers Gao Ming and Gao Jue. Ruthless generals, they fell at Peach Blossom Mountain and subsequently haunted it as demons. They appeared to Mazu when she traveled nearby and challenged her to battle, with the loser to do the winner's bidding. They intended to have her marry them both but were defeated by her magic and became her servants. In still another, the Gao brothers were bandits during the Shang before they began to haunt the mountain. \n\nIn still another account, the pair were originally warriors or guards of King Zhou of Shang. In this version of the story, they are sometimes said to have already possessed their superhuman powers and to have used them to foil the first moves towards rebellion by the Zhou. Ji Fa's advisor Jiang Ziya is made out to have been a Taoist adept, however, who uses the esoteric knowledge he received from the Primordial Lord of Heaven on to defeat them. Their powers fail them when he covers them in the blood of a black dog and Ji Fa is able to triumph at Muye and finally establish himself as the Martial King of Zhou (\"King Wu\").\n\nQianliyan most often appears as a door god at Mazuist temples or as a guardian beside Mazu at her altars or on her yellow paper charms. He is separately worshipped in some villages and by mariners for assistance avoiding danger. During the 8-day, annual pilgrimages from Dajia to Beigang, Mazu's idol is accompanied by figures of Qianliyan and Shunfeng'er played by masked men on stilts.\n\nQianliyan typically appears as a green-skinned demon shielding his eyes from the sun's glare. This was not his original position: The Southern Song statue mentioned above and another in the Nanhai Longwang Temple \"Nánhǎi Lóngwáng Miào\") in eastern Guangzhou in Guangdong give him three eyes but do not have either of his hands raised to his brow. He apparently picked up the pose from the earlier Zhaobao Qilang as that god's followers came to worship Mazu. Qianliyan also occasionally appears with three heads and six arms. He usually appears to the right of his companion Shunfeng'er. He sometimes appears as the red demon, in which case he usually has two horns and yellow sapphire eyes.\n\n"}
{"id": "10205532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10205532", "title": "Rahovart", "text": "Rahovart\n\nRahovart (or \"Rahouart\") is a demon identified in Collin de Plancy's \"Dictionnaire Infernal\" (1818), according to which he is referenced in Durzel's \"Moralité\", a Renaissance book. Rahovart is a companion of Satan; little is known about the demon himself. In Durzel's undated account (allegedly printed at Rouen), which plays out to the end of the 15th century, Rahovart is attributed to the torment of evil, rich misers and old curmudgeons. He is also charged with avalanches and ghostly torment.\n\nReportedly, the elderly are most easily subject to possession by this demon, and if the person should die under the demonic effect, their souls are collected into Rahovart's basket until the day of judgment.\n\nRahovart is also the main hero in the award-winning paranormal romance series, \"The Demon Side\" by Heaven Leigh Eldeen. \n\n"}
{"id": "56225070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56225070", "title": "Ruth Padilla DeBorst", "text": "Ruth Padilla DeBorst\n\nRuth Padilla DeBorst is a Latin American evangelical theologian affiliated with the Latin American Theological Fellowship and based in Costa Rica.\n\nPadilla DeBorst was born in Colombia as the eldest daughter of an American mother, Catharine Feser Padilla, and an Ecuadorian father, the theologian René Padilla. She attended high school and university in Argentina, receiving her B.Ed. at the Instituto Nacional Superior en Lenguas Vivas in 1984, an M.A. in Interdisciplinary Studies at Wheaton College in 1987, and a PhD in theology from Boston University in 2016, under the supervision of Dana L. Robert. She is known for being an advocate of integral mission, an evangelical form of liberation theology.\n\nShe is a former president of the Latin American Theological Fellowship (known in Spanish as Fraternidad Teológica Latinoamericana or FTL) and continues to serve on their board. She was a keynote speaker at the evangelical conference Lausanne 2010, held in Cape Town, South Africa.\n\nHer first husband was killed in Ecuador when she was eight months pregnant and with two small children. She currently lives with her second husband, James Padilla DeBorst, in San José, Costa Rica, and they together lead the Comunidad de Estudios Teológicos Interdisciplinarios.\n\n"}
{"id": "7819590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7819590", "title": "Salomon Ludwig Steinheim Institute", "text": "Salomon Ludwig Steinheim Institute\n\nThe Salomon Ludwig Steinheim Institute of German-Jewish Studies is a research institute of the University of Duisburg-Essen whose research focuses on the cultural and religious history as well as the history of literature and events of the Jewish community in German-speaking areas. The institute has made contributions in teaching in the field of Jewish Studies at the University of Duisburg-Essen. In 2003, the faculty was transferred to the Heinrich Heine University of Düsseldorf and cooperation with the institute has been maintained.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27188790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27188790", "title": "Seven-headed serpent", "text": "Seven-headed serpent\n\nThe Seven-headed Serpent (from Sumerian muš-saĝ-7: snake with seven heads) in Sumerian mythology was one of the Heroes slain by Ninurta, patron god of Lagash, in ancient Iraq. Its body was hung on the \"shining cross-beam\" of Ninurta's chariot (lines 55–63).\n\n"}
{"id": "5454017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5454017", "title": "Sheitel", "text": "Sheitel\n\nSheitel (, ' m.sg.; , ' m.pl. or , \"\" m.pl.; ) is a wig or half-wig worn by some Orthodox Jewish married women in order to conform with the requirement of Jewish law to cover their hair. Depending on different Hasidic groups, sheitels are either encouraged or avoided.\n\nThis practice is part of the modesty-related dress standard called \"tzniut\". The word is probably derived from the German word ' (\"hair parting\") or ' (\"skull\"). The related term in Hebrew is \"pei'ah\" (). Traditional sheitels are secured by elastic caps and are often designed with heavy bangs to obscure the hairline of their wearers. However, more modern designed lace-front wigs with realistic hairlines are growing in popularity.\n\nThe \"Shulchan Aruch\", the 16th-century compilation of Jewish law, cites the opinion of Rabbi Joshua Boaz ben Simon Baruch (d. 1557), who permitted the wearing of wigs.\n\nIn 2004, there was a degree of controversy over natural hair sheitels procured from India. It was discovered that the hair used for the production of these wigs was taken from a Hindu temple. According to Halacha, one cannot derive benefit from anything used in what Judaism considers to be idolatry. The controversy ceased when it became clear that the hair was neither worshiped nor offered as a sacrifice to the deity, but shaven as a rite of purification, thus excluding it from the category of forbidden items.\n\nToday, many wigs used by Jewish women come with kosher certification, indicating that they are not made with hair originating from rituals deemed to be idolatrous.\n\nIn many Hasidic groups, sheitels are avoided, as they can give the impression that the wearer's head is uncovered. In other Hasidic groups, women wear some type of covering over the sheitel to avoid this misconception, for example a scarf or a hat. Married Sephardi and National Religious women do not wear wigs, because their rabbis believe that wigs are insufficiently modest, and that other head coverings, such as a scarf (\"tichel\"), a snood, or a hat, are more suitable. In stark contrast, the Lubavitcher Rebbe encouraged all married Jewish women to wear only sheitels.\n\n"}
{"id": "1870833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870833", "title": "Shingaku", "text": "Shingaku\n\nShingaku (心学, lit. \"heart learning\") or Sekimon-shingaku (石門心学) is a Japanese religious movement, founded by Ishida Baigan and further developed by Teshima Toan, which was especially influential during the Tokugawa period. \nShingaku has been characterized as coming from a Neo-Confucian tradition, integrating principles from Zen Buddhism and Shinto. (Chang 2010) It has been speculated, Shingaku was one of the cultural foundations for Japan's industrialization. (Sawada, 1993; Bellah, 1957)\n\n"}
{"id": "8496121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8496121", "title": "Surnaturel", "text": "Surnaturel\n\nSurnaturel is a book written by the Roman-Catholic theologian Henri de Lubac. It stands among his most famous and controversial works.\n\nIn this book he traces the historical meaning of the word 'supernatural' and notes a shift in implication. Up to the High Middle Ages, the essential contrast was drawn between 'natural' and 'moral'. After that, the contrast was seen between 'natural and supernatural'. De Lubac is trying here to establish the correct understanding of Aquinas on this subject.\n\nDe Lubac began work on the ideas which would eventually appear as \"Surnaturel\" in his days as a student in Hastings. De Lubac published several articles in the 1930s which were to make up much of \"Surnaturel\". The development of the book itself, though, was greatly hindered by the war. In June 1940, fleeing the advancing Nazis, de Lubac left Lyon with a bag which included the notebook for \"Surnaturel\", on which he worked for several days. De Lubac stated in later years that the book had taken sufficient shape by 1941 to be ready for review; the \"nihil obstat\" was granted in February 1942. However, paper shortages prevented publication. In 1943, while being hunted by the Gestapo, de Lubac fled, again carrying his notebook, this time to Vals. He used the resources in the Vals library to continue his work on the book. Eventually, in October 1945 the \"Imprimatur\" was issued, and in 1946, the book was published (though only as an edition of 700 copies, due to ongoing paper shortages).\n\nDe Lubac's overall question in \"Surnaturel\" is therefore how human persons in the natural order can be interiorly directed to the order of grace that fulfils them, without in the least possessing this grace in anticipation, and without being able at all to claim it for themselves. In the book, de Lubac attempts to show how, in an attempt to answer this question, what he calls \"the system of pure nature\" had come to prevail in Catholic theology.\n\nHe argues that in the Fathers and the great scholastics there was only one concrete order of history, that in which God had made humanity for himself, and in which human nature had thus been created only for a single destiny, which was supernatural. Neither the Fathers nor the scholastics, therefore, ever envisioned the possibility of a purely natural end for human persons attainable by their own intrinsic powers of cognition and volition.\n\nDe Lubac argues that this unified vision began to unravel in the thought of theologians such as Denys the Carthusian and, more pertinently, Cajetan. While Denys had argued for a natural end of the human person to which a supernatural end must be 'superadded', he did so consciously in opposition to the teaching of Thomas Aquinas. Cajetan, however, while making a similar argument to Denys, did so while claiming simply to be \"commenting on\" Thomas: he therefore introduced the idea of human nature as \"a closed and sufficient whole\" into Thomism.\n\nThe idea of a 'pure nature', argues de Lubac, intensified in the wake of the naturalism of Baius and Jansenius: a state of pure nature - a hypothesis according to which human persons might have been created with an end proportionate to their natural powers - was seen as necessary to protect the gratuity of the supernatural. Affirmation of such a state, argued de Lubac, overlooked the decisive difference between the created human spirit and other natures. Moreover, while allowing Catholic theologians to defend the essential integrity of fallen human nature against the Protestantism that denied it, the system effected a separation between nature and the supernatural that would prove pernicious - by rendering the latter (seemingly) superfluous. Although, de Lubac argues, the system of 'pure nature' was perceived to be a novelty when it first developed, it eventually came to be taken for granted, such that, by the twentieth century, rejecting it became synonymous with denying the gratuity of the supernatural.\n\n\"Surnaturel \"is broken into four parts, which are pieced together from a number of earlier preparatory studies. \n\nThe publication of the work caused immediate controversy in Catholic thought. De Lubac's thought came to be associated as representing a \"Nouvelle Théologie\", a name applied to de Lubac's thought by his critics. In 1950, de Lubac was asked by the General of the Jesuits to stop teaching, and to give up working at the journal \"Recherches de Science Religieuse. \"An order was issued to withdraw from Jesuit libraries and from the trade three of his books - \"Surnaturel, Corpus Mysticum\" and \"De la Connaissance de Dieu\", as well as a 1949 article in \"Recherches\" in which de Lubac addressed some criticisms of \"Surnaturel\". Two months later, it was widely suspected that it was his views which were attacked in the papal encyclical \"Humani Generis\". De Lubac was ostracised for a decade.\n\nIn the early 1960s, however, his ideas became more accepted in the Catholic hierarchy, and he was among the first summoned by Pope John XXIII to help draft the texts for Vatican II.\n\nIn 1965 de Lubac published two works:\" Le Mystere du surnaturel\", and \"Augustinisme et théologie moderne, \"which served primarily to clarify numerous objections to \"Surnaturel. Mystere \"largely followed the structure of the 1949 article with the same title in which de Lubac had responded to some criticisms of \"Surnaturel\". \"Augustinisme \"was a reprint of the first part of \"Surnaturel\", enlarged with some new texts.\n\n"}
{"id": "4773381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4773381", "title": "Teddy (story)", "text": "Teddy (story)\n\n\"Teddy\" is a short story by J. D. Salinger, completed on November 22, 1952 and originally published in the January 31, 1953\nissue of \"The New Yorker\". Under the influence of \"The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna\", Salinger created an engaging child character, Teddy McArdle, to introduce to his readership some of the basic concepts of Zen enlightenment and Vedanta reincarnation – a task that Salinger recognized would require overcoming some 1950s American cultural chauvinism.\n\nSalinger wrote \"Teddy\" while he was arranging publication for a number of his short stories and crafted the story to balance and contrast the collections' intended opening work \"A Perfect Day for Bananafish\".\n\nIn Salinger's novella, \"\", a meditation written by a member of the fictional Glass family, Buddy Glass writes about his brother, Seymour, where Buddy claims authorship to \"Teddy\" as well as other pieces in \"Nine Stories\".\n\nThe story comprises several vignettes which take place aboard a luxury liner. The events occur roughly between 10:00 and 10:30 am on October 28, 1952.\nTeddy is Theodore \"Teddy\" McArdle, a 10-year-old mystic-savant returning home to America with his entertainer-socialite parents and his younger sister. As part of their tour of Great Britain, Teddy has been interviewed as an academic curiosity by professors of religious and philosophical studies - the \"Leidekker examining group\" - from various European universities in order to test his claims of advanced spiritual enlightenment.\nThe first scene opens in the McArdles' stateroom. Teddy is standing on his father’s expensive suitcase, peering out of the porthole. Mr. McArdle, apparently hung-over, is attempting to verbally assert control over his son; Mrs. McArdle indulges the boy as a provocative counterpoint to her husband’s bullying: neither adult has any real impact on the child's behavior.\n\nResponding to his parents' outbursts impassively, he contemplates the nature of existence and physical permanence while observing fragments of orange peel that have been discarded overboard. The concepts that the preternatural child ponders are evidently derived from Zen and Vedantic religious philosophy, and suggest that Teddy possesses advanced enlightenment or God-consciousness. When Teddy conveys his spiritual insights to his father and mother, they interpret them merely as the products of his precociousness, eliciting annoyance or indifference from the adults.\n\nTeddy is ordered to retrieve his six-year-old sister, Booper, who has absconded to the sport deck with her father’s expensive camera, which Teddy - indifferent to its material value - has bestowed upon her as a plaything. \nAs he departs, Teddy delivers a short, cryptic caveat to his parents, informing them that they may never see him again outside the realm of memory.\n\nOn the Main Deck, Teddy has a brief encounter with one of the ship's female officers, Ensign Mathewson. Forthright and exacting, the boy questions the officer and obtains information about a shipboard word game competition - and disabuses the bemused woman as to her misapprehensions regarding his advanced intellectual development.\n\nTeddy proceeds to the Sport Deck and locates his little sister, Booper, at play with another young passenger. Booper is a domineering and hateful child, contrasting sharply with her older brother's equanimity. Teddy, with firmness, politely exhorts the girl to return with the camera to the cabin and report to their mother. Ignoring his sister’s verbal ripostes, he reminds her to meet him shortly for their swimming lesson at the swimming pool. She submits with bad grace as he departs.\n\nThe final scene takes place on the Sun Deck, where Teddy, reclining on one of his family's reserved deckchairs, reviews his recent diary entries. The document has been conscientiously edited and neatly written. It contains reminders to foster better relations with his father; commentary on a letter from a Professor of Literature; a list of vocabulary words to study and notes on his meditation schedule - all matters of self-improvement. While making his daily entry, he writes the following \"non sequitur\": “It will either happen today or February 14, 1958 when I am sixteen. It is ridiculous to mention it even.”\n\nTeddy is interrupted by a passenger named Bob Nicholson, a graduate of an unnamed university, who teaches curriculum and instruction. Nicholson is on a first name basis with the Leidekker group and has listened to a taped interview with Teddy, in which he shows a lurid interest. He peppers Teddy with questions on the boy’s commitment to the precepts of Vedantic reincarnation; Teddy remains composed in the face of the young man’s veiled hostility, and provides him with a brief sketch of this discovery of God, his relationships with his parents and his views on Zen philosophy. The boy offers Nicholson an extended metaphor on the nature of logic that challenges the young man’s rational and orthodox commitment to material reality. Teddy, in explaining his position on death and reincarnation gives a hypothetical example describing a series of events at his upcoming swimming lesson in which a fatality occurs: his own.\n\nTeddy disengages from the interview and hurries to his lesson. Nicholson pursues him through the levels of the ship's decks, and as he begins to descend the stairs to the swimming pool, he hears the scream of \"a small, female child\" emanating from the enclosed walls of the indoor pool. The story ends on this ambiguous note.\n\nIn the opening scene set in the Mr. and Mrs. McArdle's state room, Salinger presents two facets of Zen enlightenment: \"God-consciousness\", a profound awareness of \"inner spirit\", in contrast to material concerns, and secondly, \"the notion of impermanence\", based on \"the Vedantic belief that separate existence is an illusion.\"\n\nTeddy, perched on a piece of luggage, pokes his head through the open porthole, penetrating figuratively into a zone of enlightenment and sublimity; his body remains in the cabin, where his parents – “materialistic and self-centered” – engage in mildly abusive repartee, issuing petulant and ineffectual commands to their son, who endures them with tolerant detachment. Teddy’s astonishing self-possession is a product of his adherence to Vedantic “philosophy of non-attachment”, enabling him to distinguish between “the world of illusion” – the material world – and “the world of reality”, where “only unity of God is real.”\n\nThe boy focuses his attention on some discarded orange peel suspended momentarily on the ocean surface; as they sink out of sight, he engages in “solipsistic contemplation. Teddy conveys his revelation to his parents: “After I go out this door, I may only exist in the minds of all my acquaintances…I may be an orange peel.” His mother and father, victims of their spiritual “immaturity”, are incapable of grasping his warning that they may never see him again. Salinger issues this Vedantic premonition to the reader as a clue to Teddy’s fate.\n\nThe same studied disengagement that characterizes Teddy’s relationship with his parents also informs the “amazing” toleration he exhibits toward his younger sister – a child that biographer Kenneth Slawenski describes as “a cruel little girl” and “perhaps the most vicious child ever discharged by Salinger’s imagination.”\n\nWhen Booper announces that she “hates everybody in the ocean”, Salinger calls attention to the setting of his story: the sea, with its infinite horizons and indefinite boundaries where his characters drift – a seascape that reflects “the Zen and Vedantic concepts of existence.”\n\nTeddy’s tolerance of his sister is due to his understanding that few reincarnations have contributed to the six-year old’s spiritual development. Booper’s misanthropic persona make plausible her role in the sinister and unsettling denouement at the swimming pool.\n\nThe final vignette occurs on the Sun Deck. Bob Nicholson, a teacher at Trinity College, Dublin, is acquainted with some members of the Leidekker group who examined Teddy; he engages the boy in an \"ad hoc\" interview. This serves two purposes in Salinger’s story. First, he functions as a foil to Teddy, posing logical questions challenging the tenets of Vendantic and Zen philosophy. Salinger uses this device to respond to hostile skeptics among his readers. According to Slawenski, Nicholson “embodies the logic that poisons God-consciousness, and he represents the power of the intellect to blind individuals from spiritual truth.”\n\nNicholson additionally functions as a witness to Teddy’s final discourse on the nature of existence and death, in which the boy formulates the circumstances that might lead to his reincarnation. In a lull in their exchange, Teddy becomes momentarily distracted by an inner voice or vision, and spontaneously recites to Nicholson two haiku by the 17th Century poet Bashō: “Nothing in the voice of the cicada intimates how soon it will die” and “Along this road goes no one, this autumn eve.”\n\nNicholson, pursuing Teddy to the indoor swimming pool, hears, but does not see, the event that the boy prophesied, providing the reader with tantalizing evidence that leaves the boy's ultimate fate a mystery.\n\nThe ending of Salinger’s “Teddy” has been described as “controversial” and “the most widely criticized ending of any story that he ever wrote.”\n\nSalinger thrice provides the reader with intimations of Teddy’s demise: in statements to his parents, in his diary and to Nicholson. This has led readers to interpret the final passage as confirmation of the boy’s premonition i.e. Booper shoves her older brother into the empty concrete pool and screams when she sees the deadly consequences.\n\nSlawenski reports two additional interpretations that might be derived from the final passage. One option is that Teddy “recognizing the threat his sister poses” evades her thrust and pushes her to her death, as act of premeditated murder. A third option is that both children plunge into the empty basin when Teddy carries Booper with him off the precipice – in order to advance her into her next reincarnation. \"None of these\" says Slawenski, \"is very satisfying.\"\n\nCritics of the story may have targeted the ending for disapproval, rather than engage in a culturally biased critique of Salinger’s foray into Zen philosophy.\n\nSalinger himself regarded the work as “exceptionally Haunting [sic]” and “memorable” yet “unpleasantly controversial” and “thoroughly unsuccessful.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "68901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68901", "title": "Uzzi", "text": "Uzzi\n\nUzzi ( \"‘Uzzî\") is a biblical name meaning \"my strength\".\n\nPeople with this name:\n\nbiblical:\n\n\n\nmodern:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49323411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49323411", "title": "Victor Scantlebury", "text": "Victor Scantlebury\n\nVictor Alfonso Scantlebury (born March 31, 1945, Colón, Panama) is the Acting bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Central Ecuador. He previously served as suffragan bishop in Panama.\n\n"}
{"id": "23270731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23270731", "title": "World Summit of Religious Leaders", "text": "World Summit of Religious Leaders\n\nThe Summit of World Religious Leaders is an annual meeting of religious leaders. Although there are other Interfaith World Summits where religious leaders from a diverse array of faith traditions attend, these particular meetings are unique in that they deliver collaborative statements to the G8 political leaders about the mutual responsibility faith groups and political leaders share for improving the living conditions of the most vulnerable people and species in the world. These Summits have now met for one complete round of G8 meetings. The first meeting to deliver a statement to the G8 was held in the United Kingdom and was ecumenical. It became interfaith the following year when Russia hosted the event. The statements can be viewed at the G8 Research Group website.\n\n\n\nPeer-reviewed articles studying the significance of these meetings include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3016042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3016042", "title": "Yitzhak Kaduri", "text": "Yitzhak Kaduri\n\nYitzchak Kaduri (, ), also spelled Kadouri, Kadourie, Kedourie; \"Yitzhak\" ( – January 28, 2006), was a renowned Mizrahi Haredi rabbi and kabbalist who devoted his life to Torah study and prayer on behalf of the Jewish people. He taught and practiced the \"kavanot\" of the Rashash. His blessings and amulets were also widely sought to cure people of illnesses and infertility. In his life, he published no religious articles or books. At the time of his death, estimates of his age ranged from 103 to 118, and his birth year is still disputed.\n\nHis funeral which was held in Jerusalem drew over half a million followers in what was described as the largest funeral in Israel's history.\n\nHe was born in Baghdad, (some say in 1902 - although his true birth year isn't known for sure), then part of the Ottoman Turkish \"vilayets\", to Rabbi Katchouri Diba ben Aziza, who was a spice trader. This birth year was published in \"Mishpacha\" magazine from a live interview with the rabbi in 2005.\n\nAs a youngster, Kaduri excelled in his studies and began learning Kabbalah while still in his teens, a study that would last his entire life. He was a child student of the \"Ben Ish Chai\" (Rabbi Yosef Chaim of Baghdad, d. 1909) and studied at the Zilka Yeshivah in Baghdad.\n\nRabbi Kaduri moved to the British Mandate of Palestine (Eretz Israel, the Holy Land) in 1923. It was here that he changed his name from Diba to Kaduri.\n\nHe went to study at the Shoshanim LeDavid Yeshiva for kabbalists from Iraq. There he learned from the leading kabbalists of the time, including Rabbi Yehuda Ftaya, author of \"Beit Lechem Yehudah\", and Rabbi Yaakov Chaim Sofer, author of \"Kaf Hachaim\". He later immersed himself in regular Talmudic study and rabbinical law in the Porat Yosef Yeshiva in Jerusalem's Old City, where he also studied Kabbalah with the Rosh Yeshivah, Rabbi Ezra Attiya, Rabbi Saliman Eliyahu (father of Sephardic Chief Rabbi Mordechai Eliyahu), and other learned rabbis.\n\nIn 1934, Rabbi Kaduri and his family moved to the Old City, where the Porat Yosef Yeshivah gave him an apartment nearby with a job of binding the yeshivah's books and copying over rare manuscripts in the yeshivah's library. The books remained in the yeshivah's library, while the copies of manuscripts were stored in Rabbi Kaduri's personal library. Before binding each book, he would study it intently, committing it to memory. He was reputed to have photographic memory and also mastered the Talmud by heart, including the adjoining Rashi and Tosafot commentaries.\n\nDuring the period of Arab-Israeli friction that led up to the Israeli war of Independence, the Porat Yosef Yeshivah was virtually turned into a fortress against frequent flashes of violence. When the Jewish quarter of the Old City fell to the invading Jordanian Army, the Jordanians set fire to the yeshivah and all surrounding houses, destroying all the books and manuscripts that Rabbi Kaduri could not smuggle to Beit El Yeshiva (\"Yeshivat HaMekubalim\") in Jerusalem. He knew all the writings of Rabbi Yitzhak Luria, the founder of modern Kabbalah by heart. After the passing of the leading kabbalist, Rabbi Efraim Hakohen, in 1989, the remaining kabbalists appointed Rabbi Kaduri as their head.\n\nRabbi Kaduri did not publish any of the works that he authored on Kabbalah; he allowed only students of Kabbalah to study them. He did publish some articles criticizing those who engage in \"practical Kabbalah\", the popular dissemination of advice or amulets, often for a price. Kadouri said \"It is forbidden to teach a non-Jew Kabbalah, not even Talmud, not even simple Torah;\" perhaps referring to pop celebrity Madonna's publicised interest in Kabbalah; he also said that women (even Jewish) are not allowed to study Kabbalah.\n\nOver the years, thousands of people (mainly but not exclusively Sephardi Jews) would come to seek his advice, blessings and amulets which he would create specifically for the individual in need. He had learned the Kabbalistic secrets of the amulets from his teacher, Rabbi Yehuda Fatiyah. Many people directly attributed personal miracles to receiving a blessing from Rabbi Kaduri, such as recovery from severe illnesses and diseases, children born to couples with fertility problems, finding a spouse, and economic blessings.\n\nHis rise to fame, though, began when his son, Rabbi David Kaduri, who ran a poultry store in the Bukharim Market, decided to found a proper yeshivah organization under his father. Called Nachalat Yitzchak yeshiva, it was located adjacent to the family home in the Bukharim neighbourhood of Jerusalem. His grandson, Yossi Kaduri, took part in this endeavour with him\nKaduri was seen as a prophesier. In late 2004, Kaduri said \"Great tragedies in the world are foreseen\" two weeks before the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami; reporter Baruch Gordon of Arutz Sheva connected the two by saying Kaduri \"predicted\" the tragedy.\n\nThe last two decades of his life were marred by the controversial way that some would use him to promote various political parties during Israeli elections. Rabbi Kaduri achieved celebrity status during the 1996 Knesset elections when he was flown by helicopter to multiple political rallies in support of the Shas party, and for amulets that were produced in his name for supporters of that party.\n\nIn October 1997, Benjamin Netanyahu, then in his first term as Prime Minister of Israel, came to visit Kaduri at his synagogue and was recorded as whispering in his ear \"the left has forgotten what it is to be a Jew\". This was considered as a divisive action and resonated in the press.\n\nKaduri lived a life of poverty and simplicity. He ate little, spoke little, and prayed each month at the gravesites of tzaddikim in Israel. His first wife, Rabbanit Sara, died in 1989. He remarried in 1993 to Rabbanit Dorit, a baalat teshuva just over half his age.\n\nIn January 2006, Rabbi Kaduri was hospitalized with pneumonia in the Bikur Holim Hospital in Jerusalem, where there wasn't an automatic artificial respirator, which was donated by a close person. He died at around 10 p.m. January 28, 2006 (29 Tevet 5766). He was alert and lucid until his last day.\n\nAn estimated 300,000 people took part in his funeral procession on January 29, which started from the Nachalat Yitzchak Yeshivah and wound its way through the streets of Jerusalem to the Givat Shaul cemetery near the entrance to the city of Jerusalem.\n\nBefore his death, Kaduri had said that he expected the Mashiach, the Jewish Messiah, to arrive soon, and that he had met him a year earlier. It has been alleged that he left a hand-written note to his followers and they were reportedly instructed to only open the note after Rabbi Kaduri had been dead for one year. After this time period had passed, the note was opened by these followers and was found to read, \"\" (translated as \"he will raise the people and confirm that his word and law are standing\"), which by acronym, suggested the name \"Yehoshua\". Such acrostics are a well recognised phenomenon in the Tanakh. Many religious Jews and counter missionaries discredit the note as a Messianic forgery. Rabbi Tovia Singer suggests that when considering the context of the note, the name Yehoshua refers to the biblical Yehoshua Ben Nun rather than Jesus to whom many messianic groups ascribe the name \"Yeshua\". Singer also claimed that no member of Kaduri's family he spoke to 'knew anything about this note', but it is Kaduri's disciples who publicized the note and posted it on Kaduri's website. The Hebrew name Yehoshua is translated into Greek as the Greek equivalent of Jesus. Whenever Joshua [Yehoshua] Ben Nun is mentioned in the New Testament his name is translated as Jesus.\n\n"}
{"id": "7871976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7871976", "title": "Zechariah Mendel ben Aryeh Leib", "text": "Zechariah Mendel ben Aryeh Leib\n\nZechariah Mendel ben Aryeh Leib (died 1791) (Hebrew: זכריה מנדל בן אריה ליב) was a Galician and German preacher and scholar born at Podhaice in the early part of the 18th century. He died at Frankfurt-on-the-Oder on December 20, 1791.\n\nHe was of the same family as Solomon Luria and Moses Isserles, who traced their genealogy to Rashi. Zechariah Mendel's principal teacher was Jacob Joshua, author of \"Pene Yehoshua\". Zechariah Mendel was preacher in the Talmud Torah at Frankfurt-on-the-Oder. He left many writings, of which only the following three have been published (at Frankfort-on-the-Oder):\n\n"}
