{"id": "58864320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58864320", "title": "Abjection in Modernity", "text": "Abjection in Modernity\n\nJulia Kristeva’s theory of abjection produces many implications that cause us to think about how we position ourselves between the land of the living and the land of the dead. Kristeva posits that women are abjected as they represent a “suffocating return to the archaic maternal body”, or more specifically, the return to immanence (death). In modernity, the use of the abjected maternal or feminine body is utilised in popular culture to elicit horror from audiences. This, sometimes inadvertently, subverts the patriarchy’s grip on society and brings to light the oppression of women.\n\nDuring the course of her \"Born This Way\" album cycle, Lady Gaga harnessed the abject in order to bring the repressed maternal to the forefront of her performances. In her \"Born This Way Ball\" world tour, Gaga commenced the concert by being birthed out of a large inflatable vagina. This was met by considerable audience disgust, as it threatened the breakdown of our reality, and our distinction between subject and object. In her infamous \"Born This Way\" video, Gaga created a new religious scripture in which the mother is the almighty god. In this video, Gaga discusses the birth of a new race under ‘Mother Monster’, as the “wombs numbered and the mitosis of the future began”, she exclaims that this moment of birth is not temporal, but eternal. Upon its release, this video was scalded for relying on shock tactics. This reaction is perhaps unsurprising due to the way Gaga used the abjected site of the maternal in order to challenge our evolutionary instinct to reject death. Gaga consistently uses the abject to shock audiences and bring attention to the oppression of women in modernity. In 2014, Gaga performed at SXSW (South by Southwest) and included in this performance her song titled Swine, a song about sexual assault against women. For this performance Gaga brought performance artist Millie Brown to the stage, whom of which began to vomit green paint over Gaga’s body while she played the drums.  Using the abject materials of oral disgust and waste , Gaga attempted to emphasise the way in which women are objectified and abused by men. It is a cunning juxtaposition as Gaga sings about her experience with sexual assault and vomit is hurled onto her body. A similar sentiment lies in her infamous ‘meat dress’. Using the abject material of blood and flesh that draped over her body, Gaga left people speechless and in a state of utter disgust. It was only later that Gaga revealed she had worn the dress as a statement against the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” policy which silenced gay soldiers in the United States military. On the Ellen Show, Gaga exclaimed “if we don't stand up for what we believe in, if we don't fight for our rights, pretty soon we're going to have as much rights as the meat on our bones.”  This makes clear the potential of Julia Kristeva’s theory of abjection to create social change.\n\nIcelandic artist Björk is well known for her outlandish style and eccentric performances. Her latest album, \"Utopia\" is accompanied by a plethora of abject imagery that run parallel with the feminist lyricism of the album. The album cover depicts a creature-like Björk with a bird fetus nestled in her neck, and a vagina growing from her forehead. This effectively uses the abject in order to bring the maternal to the public sphere, forcing us to come to terms with our origin, and consequently, our imminent death. In her music video for \"The Gate,\" Björk constructs a utopia of her own, rife with the symbolism of female genitalia which is played alongside birdsongs and a flute arrangement. This is another instance in which Björk has celebrated the maternal, and thus emphasised the silencing of such through our reaction to the “matriarchal tapestry” she weaves.\n\nIt is only in recent times that American pop artist Ariana Grande has reinforced the notion of abjection within her own works. While she hinted towards a more female oriented approach on songs and videos such as \"Dangerous Woman\", it is one of her latest releases, off her 2018 album \"Sweetener\", that has proven to manifest as Kristeva proposes. \"God is a woman\" has quickly become a cornerstone of powerful female sexuality both in and outside of the private sphere, with rewritings of both history and mythology from a female (and symbiotically feminist) perspective. The overarching message is one of women’s sexual empowerment, and while that is heavily reflected in the lyricism, the accompanying music video leaves audiences with additional images and symbols of the divine feminine. Symbolism and commentary in the form of a variety of depictions of the vagina are evident through various poses and hand gestures especially. The rewriting of spirituality with the phrase “God is a woman” repeated throughout, and the final image of Grande as God in a reimagining of \"The Creation of Adam\" reaffirms this call for female uprising, and challenges our society’s preconceived notions of what is and is not kept private; is a direct confrontation of the patriarchy and what women should “keep” of themselves solely for the pleasure or wants of the men that own them. However, the retaliation from religious sects especially reinstates the notion of abjection, as people of dogmatic faith claim Grande committed blasphemy in her lyrics and images. Grande’s use of this supremely maternal narrative, the notion that God is a woman because of their (or his or her, depending on perspective) divinity, sexual liberation and power of creation drives the message of abjection in modernity home.\n\nDefined as a film in the ‘splatter’ subgenre of horror films, \"Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2\" harnesses the abject in a peculiar way. Horror is often defined as a misogynistic or heteronormative genre, but as Jack Halberstam makes clear, these ‘splatter’ films often use the abject to present queerness, or the unrecognisable human body. In \"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2,\" bodies are brutalised by the chainsaw, and what we are left with is the excess flesh that survives the chainsaw, forming a queer and gender indifferent identity.  According to Jack Halberstam, in this film we are subjected to the abject in the form of blood, flesh, etc., which change the bodily terrain of ‘man’ and ‘woman’. A ‘splattered’ or bloody body is queer, as it subverts the connotations of masculinity and femininity through an unrecognisable sea of tarnished flesh. \n\nIn the film Teeth (2007), the theories of Julia Kristeva’s on abjection and Barbara Creed’s monstrous-feminine can be explored.\n\nTeeth is a horror comedy film and Coming-of-age story written and directed by Mitchell Lichtenstein and stars Jess Weixler as Dawn, an outspoken activist of an abstinence-only group at her high school, while trying to suppress her own budding sexual desires.\n\nThe story follows Dawns’ journey of sexual discovery, however, takes a dark turn after Dawn and her new boyfriend Toby take a swim together at a local swimming hole. Toby forces himself onto Dawn, and when she tries to resist he assaults her and knocks her unconscious and proceeds to rape her. Toby is swiftly punished for sexually debasing Dawn with the masculine weapon of rape, as Dawn’s body savagely fights back, and severs Toby’s penis with her vagina. \n\nThrough the violent act of rape and subsequent removal of Toby’s penis, Dawn discovers she is the living embodiment of the myth of the Vagina Dentata or “the toothed vagina” – the vagina that castrates. With this act, Dawn is immediately rendered unnatural to the viewer and abject.  \n\nFreud wrote that “Probably no male human being is spared the terrifying shock of threatened castration at the sight of the female genitals,”. Creed expands on this thought and states that “Castration anxiety is a central concern of the horror film - particularly the slasher sub-genre. Woman's body is slashed and mutilated, not only to signify her own castrated state, but also the possibility of castration for the male.”. Creed describes how the sight of the female genitals is monstrous-feminine as the role of ‘the archaic mother’, as the absence of a penis is proof that castration can occur. As Dawn is the physical manifestation of Castration anxiety for males with her vagina dentata, she is made monstrous-feminine. \n\nThrough the film Dawn learns she has evolved to have this power and learns to control it through other sexual encounters. During her initial research of her vagina dentata, she discovers that to be ‘cured’ a male hero is to conquer vagina dentata through sexual intercourse, and thus restoring the woman to her ‘proper place’ in the ‘natural’ (patriarchal) order of the world. \n\nWhat makes this film different from the usual misogynistic and patriarchal themes and tropes found in a majority of the horror genre, is that it transforms the view of monstrous-feminine to that of a heroine. The director, Mitchell Lichtenstein, explicitly wanted to change the narrative of the myth of vagina dentata to be not about women, but men, and the fear men have of women and desire for control over them. Mitchel Lichtenstein is quoted in interviews that he didn’t want to perpetuate gynophobia and wanted to turn the myth ‘on its head’.  The vagina dentata myth always has the masculine hero conquering the woman, the monstrous-feminine, and destroying the teeth to free her. In his film, Lichtenstein wanted Dawn to be the heroine, with a power so she could never be conquered. Lichtenstein made a concerted effort to both not show Dawn’s toothed vulva or to have the action of the teeth snapping shut to be very audible. This was to ensure that Dawn and her ‘teeth’ were not the monster, the monstrous-feminine, but were an evolved adaption to protect her from violent sexual predators.\n\nEssentially, Dawn evolved her vaginal dentata into a biological Anti-rape device, developed to deter and prevent rape by causing pain and disfigurement to sexual violence perpetrators.\n\nReviews of the film have been mixed with praise from feminists for empowerment and from psychoanalysts for its exploration of the subject matter, while the anti-women Men's rights movement predictably claim the film is grossly misandrist. Given the history of the horror genre and its misogynistic and patriarchal themes, it is refreshing to see a film challenge these outdated ideas.\n\nThroughout its eight seasons, \"American Horror Story\" has continuously shocked viewers with its intense themes. The anthology series is no stranger to depicting its female characters as antagonists, with some of these including brutal criminals, murderers, a nun subjected to demonic possession, cult members and witches. Having such grim and vicious depictions of women has often been one of the focal points for the show, drawing viewers in with the complexities of the powerful, violent feminine. The construction and use of these characters is disconcerting: horror has quite a narrow scope in relation to the presence of predatory women, and this is evident in the impact female heavy seasons of \"American Horror Story\" (such as \"\", \"\", \"\" and more recently \"\") have on ratings, viewers and themes. While female antagonists are commonplace, female victims are (unsurprisingly) also a factor. It is interesting then to explore the almost exclusively female horrors of the first three seasons (\"\", \"\" and \"\") , with tropes such as closeted queerness, fetishisation, rape, birth and abortions (failed, forced and traumatic), suicide, mental illness, institutionalisation, race and the \"Salem Witch Trials\" all confirming and playing out many women’s worst nightmares. Such explicit depictions of this, then, bring Kristeva’s theory into full effect; the notion of abjection being carried out with the blood, gore, violence, nudity, bodies, maternity and spaces \"American Horror Story\" creates. It is mostly in later seasons where female empowerment and justice is served, however, there is always a prevalent and sinister underlying tension when a woman is violated at any point throughout the various ideas explored in the show’s entirety. As a final draw to Kristeva’s theories, the relevance of distorted, disabled, or otherwise abnormal bodies in the show’s fourth season, \"\", is another theme to bring abjection to the forefront. Having differing bodies or abilities outside of the realm of possibility (including a bearded woman, a , several dwarves, a and conjoined twins to name a few) for the season’s 1950s time setting is projected as unsettling and grotesque to not only regular society within the show but also the intended audience.    \n\nAnother depiction of abjection in modernity is within television series \"Orange is the New Black\". The fictional television show, which centralises around the women within a low security prison, uses its scope of women as criminals to fight alongside movements within society (such as LGBT+ and Black Lives Matter). Using the idea of incarcerated females directly correlates with the abject, as it challenges the ideas of the violent and/or deviant feminine, and the links to maternity are pellucid (both literally and symbolically when considering the pregnant female inmates in the show). By highlighting racial divides between the cell blocks and mainstreaming and normalising lesbian identity and sex, the show also calls for women to celebrate and enjoy themselves. Evidenced from the initial audience shock at the themes, vulgarity and sexual prowess of the program, this notion of abjection is extremely relevant when assessing the disruption of what a woman should be in our society, using the distasteful material as fuel to reroute criminality and women in that situation.\n\nFollowing in the footsteps of the immensely popular Rupaul’s Drag Race, The Boulet Brothers’ Dragula adapt their own drag reality show that is filled to the brim with abject imagery and references to the monstrous feminine. Horror, and consequently forms of abjection, are often considered to unveil the deepest fears within the culture it is situated.  The fears that the Boulet Brothers attempt to challenge in Dragula are fears of gender indifference, fears of the homosexual body and the fear of the breakdown of heteronormativity in which our culture operates.  The premise of the reality show is to find the ‘Next Drag Supermonster’ that upholds three main traits; filth, horror, and glamour. There is indeed no holding back when it comes to filth and horror. In the season finale, Vander Von Odd stuck her fingers down her throat in order to vomit on a pile of excrement, and then proceeded to ingest it.  It is with this shocking display of the abject elements of excrement and vomit that Vander succeeded in subverting the heteronormative ideas of femininity. It is almost a one-two punch effect with the “fertile territory of horror” being implemented to “serve as a testimony to how much we fear female power” , fusing with the abject elements such as oral disgust that break apart out reality and force us to face our biological immanence.\n"}
{"id": "37182491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37182491", "title": "African Development Perspectives Yearbook", "text": "African Development Perspectives Yearbook\n\nThe Africa Development Perspectives Yearbook is an annual publication devoted to socio-economic trends in Africa. According to its publication program, the yearbook wishes to analyse African economic policies on various levels: from local to national, regional and international level.\n\nTopics dealt with in the yearbook have included \"Human Dimensions of Adjustment\" (vol. 1, 1989), \"Industrialization Based on Agricultural Development\" (volume 2, 1990), \"Active Labour and Employment Policies in Africa\" (volume 4, 1994), \"Africa's Reintegration into the World Economy\" (volume 8, 2000), \"Macroeconomic Policy Formation in Africa\" (volume 16, 2012).\n\nAuthors publishing in the Yearbook include development economists such as Irma Adelman, Hans H. Bass, Hartmut Elsenhans, Gerald Helleiner, Robert Kappel, Magda Kandil, Hans W. Singer.\n"}
{"id": "23943284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23943284", "title": "African Studies Review", "text": "African Studies Review\n\nThe African Studies Review is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering African studies. The journal also publishes book reviews. The journal was established in 1958 as the African Studies Bulletin, obtaining its current name in 1970. The editors-in-chief are Ralph Faulkingham (University of Massachusetts Amherst), Elliot Fratkin (Smith College), Mitzi Goheen (Amherst College), and Sean Redding (Amherst College).\n"}
{"id": "3556067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3556067", "title": "Air rights", "text": "Air rights\n\nAir rights are the property interest in the \"space\" above the earth's surface. Generally speaking, owning, or renting, land or a building includes the right to use and develop the space above the land without interference by others.\n\nThis legal concept is encoded in the Latin phrase \"Cuius est solum, eius est usque ad coelum et ad inferos\" (\"\"Whoever owns the soil, it is theirs up to Heaven and down to Hell\".\"), which appears in medieval Roman law and is credited to 13th-century glossator Accursius; it was notably popularized in common law in \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\" (1766) by William Blackstone; see origins of phrase for details.\n\nProperty rights defined by points on the ground were once believed to extend indefinitely upward. This notion remained unchallenged before air travel became popular in the early 20th century. To promote air transport, legislators established a legal right for the public to transit at high altitudes, regardless of real estate ownership. Both the public easement in the space at these higher altitudes and landowner rights to the exclusive use of the airspace at lower altitudes have been well documented by the U.S. judiciary.\n\nNew technologies have again raised questions about ownership of \"space\" and the upward bounds of national sovereignty. With the advent of space travel above earth's atmosphere, the height at which national sovereignty extends and therefore nations can regulate transit is often debated.\n\nIn the United States, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has the sole authority to control all \"publicly owned\" airspace, exclusively determining the rules and requirements for its use. Specifically, the Federal Aviation Act provides that: \"The United States Government has exclusive sovereignty of airspace of the United States\", but not all the airspace is \"possessed\" by the United States. For non-public airspace, Congress has provided authority for the FAA to purchase this non-public airspace near airports to accommodate planes taking off and landing. The \"navigable airspace\" in which the public has a right of transit without affecting a landowner's property rights has been set at the height of 500 ft in urban or suburban areas, and 360 feet above the surface or tallest structure in rural areas. The exact altitude(s) at which the airspace over private land becomes \"public\" airspace, or where the upward bounds of national sovereignty extends is often debated, but the Supreme Court rulings and space treaties are clear. A landowner's domain extends up to at least 365 feet above the ground. see Causby v US (1946), and no nation can prevent orbits above the Earth's atmosphere.\n\nThe FAA is required to pay financial compensation to property owners when their property interests are taken for overflights. Compensated landowners may then be required to waive any putative damages for interference with \"air rights\" in order to avoid lawsuits from future owners' nuisance claims against low flying aircraft. This is called a navigation or navigational easement.\n\nThe low cost of unmanned aerial vehicles (also called drones) in the 2000s re-raised legal questions regarding whose permission is required to fly at low altitudes; the landowner, the FAA or both. Although the FAA reestablished that navigable airspace is the space above 500 feet, the FAA also set regulations which allow drones to fly below 400 feet in order to prevent interference with planes above that height. The FAA's actions are expected to see challenges in the judiciary.\n\nRailroads were the first companies to realize the potential of making money from their air rights. A good example of this is Grand Central Terminal in New York City, where William J. Wilgus, chief engineer of the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad, devised a plan to earn profit from air rights. At first, the railroad simply constructed a platform above the rail yards to allow for the development of buildings overhead. By 1954, the railroad began to realize it could sell more air rights and Grand Central Terminal was proposed to be replaced by a 50-story tower. This is how the Pan Am Building came to be built next to the station, after public protest regarding the demolition of Grand Central Terminal. This approach has been used in Chicago since the construction of the Prudential Building in 1955 above active railroad tracks of the Illinois Central Railroad. In 2017, to the west of the Chicago River, River Point and 150 North Riverside were built above tracks leading to the Amtrak station.\n\nBuilding on platforms over railroad tracks is still potentially very profitable. In the mid-2000s, New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) attempted to sell air rights to the New York Jets so that they could build the West Side Stadium over Manhattan's West Side Yard, near Penn Station, as part of the Hudson Yards Redevelopment. The Hudson Yards mega-development was eventually built over the rail yard. In Brooklyn, the Barclays Center and Pacific Park have been constructed over Atlantic Yards.\n\nSimilar to railroads, builders of highways have proposed selling their air rights; Boston did this in connection with the Big Dig.\n\nThe city of Los Angeles funded a $100,000 feasibility study RFP in January 2007 to explore building a freeway cap park in Hollywood. The park would be built above US highway 101 and contain of new parkland.\n\nThe owner of the land has the exclusive development rights in the 'space' above his lands. Under common law, building a 'hangover' that breaks the vertical plane of a neighbor's property is a trespass and the property owner has the right to remove the offending structure. The airspace is property and retains developmental rights which can be sold or transferred. Thus in a dense downtown area, each building in the area may have the right to thirty-five stories of airspace above his own property. The owners of an older building of only three stories high could make a great deal of money by selling their building and allowing a thirty-five-story skyscraper to be built in its place. For example, a skyscraper developer may purchase the unused airspace from an adjacent landowner in order to develop a broader building. In November 2005, Christ Church in New York sold its vertical development rights for a record $430 per square foot, making more than $30 million on the sale.\n\n\nNotes\n\nTransferable Development Rights (TDR)\n"}
{"id": "35926995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35926995", "title": "Al-Khurma dispute", "text": "Al-Khurma dispute\n\nThe First Saudi–Hashemite War, also known as the First Nejd–Hejaz War or the al-Khurma dispute, took place in 1918–19 between Abdulaziz Ibn Saud of the Emirate of Nejd and the Hashemites of the Kingdom of Hejaz.\n\nThe war came within the scope of the historic conflict between the Hashemites of Hejaz and the Saudis of Riyadh (Nejd) over supremacy in Arabia. It resulted in the defeat of the Hashemite forces and capture of al-Khurma by the Saudis and his allied Ikhwan, but British intervention prevented immediate collapse of the Hashemite kingdom, establishing a sensitive cease-fire that would last until 1924.\n\nWhen World War I began, Ibn Saud, the powerful Emir of Nejd, offered the Hashemite ruler Sharif Husayn ibn Ali and the leaders of Ha'il and Kuwait to adopt a neutral stance in the conflict, avoiding intervention in European-related matters, and seeking self-determination for the Arab people. However, with no interests coinciding, no agreement had been reached. Ibn Saud ignored involvement on any side for the first two years of war, while Sharif Husayn of Hejaz began promoting the Arab Revolt against the Ottoman Empire, proclaiming himself \"King of the Arabs.\" Ibn Saud was infuriated over the Sharifians' claim to the entire Arab peninsula and demanded negotiations to consider the borders of Nejd and Hejaz. Husayn rejected Saudi demands and insulted the Saudi ruler, which eventually brought Ibn Saud to become involved in the political crisis over al-Khurma oasis.\n\nIbn Saud himself however did not maintain neutrality through World War I, being generously supported by the British against the pro-Ottoman emirate of Ha'il. In December 1917, a British deputation, led by Colonel Hemilton tried to convince the Saudi leader to take action against the Ha'il emirate of Jabal Shammar. In return, Ibn Saud demanded firearms. Yet, the British advancement in the Ottoman province of Palestine made the Saudis less relevant, while the Hashemite leader in turn concluded a peace agreement with Jabal Shammar. Thus, in fall of 1918, when Ibn Saud organized some 5,000 men against Jabal Shammar, a British demand to cease military activities came in.\n\nAl-Khurma, a crucial strategic oasis on the way between Nejd and Hejaz, had been under Hashemite rule, but following the dispute between the Saudis and the Hashemites, Khurma's emir Khalid ibn Mansur ibn Luwai defected to the Saudi side. In July 1918, after the defection of al-Khurma's emir, a detachment was dispatched by Hashemite King to seize al-Khurma. In response, Ibn Saud sent his Ikhwan forces to protect the oasis, defeating the Hashemites from Mecca.\n\nFollowing the end of World War I, Sharif Husayn sought to strike a deal with Ibn Saud over the al-Khurma oasis. The conflict at that point expanded from a political dispute into a religious sectarian dimension, with the Wahhabis of Nejd standing against the Orthodox Sunni Hashemites. Sharif Husayn decided on another expedition to Khurma. Though aware of the coming dispute, the British turned a blind eye to the Hashemite advances, largely underestimating the strength of the Saudis, who the British thought would be quickly overran.\n\nIn May 1919, a Hashemite army, led by Abdallah ibn Husayn, was dispatched towards Turaba, an oasis some 80 miles away from Khurma. Turaba was seized and plundered on May 21. Ibn Saud dispatched a warning to the Hashemites, that their presence in Turaba or advance on Khurma would provoke a war, but neither side was willing to compromise at that time.\n\nAn Ikhwan force, under the command of Sultan bin Bajad, Hamud ibn Umar and Khalid meanwhile advanced on Turaba, and attacked the Hashemites by surprise on May 25–26 in their camp. In a few hours an entire Hashemite army was annihilated, with hundreds killed and thousands escaping in disarray. Abdallah ibn Husayn himself had barely fled the battlefield.\n\nThe battle of Turaba was a turning point in the conflict, placing Sharif Husayn in a very weak position against Ibn Saud. In early July 1919, Ibn Saud himself arrived to Turaba with an army of 10,000 men, ready to advance on Hejaz. On July 4, however, a British ultimatum arrived to the Saudis, demanding to stop the campaign and return the Nejd. Unwilling to face the British, Ibn Saud submitted to the British demand and capitulated. It however could not change the notion of the Saudi ruler that the victory over Hejaz is possible.\n\nIn the next 4 years, the Saudi ruler was preoccupied with consolidation of his domain, undertaking several campaigns in new regions of Arabia, while keeping the Hejazi frontier quiet. Jabal Shammar was annexed in 1920–21, while Kuwait was defeated in 1922, defining the border with Iraq and Transjordan through the Uqair protocol of 1922, while simultaneously conquering Asir in south Arabia. By early 1923, Ibn Saud decided to take over Hejaz, but was unsure over British position. The worsening relations between England and Hashemite rulers and the proclamation of Sharif Husayn as Caliph, finally made Ibn Saud to undertake the campaign, entusiasthically supported by the religiously insigted Ikhwan, who had hoped to take over the holy sites of Islam. The preliminary attack on Taif came in September 1924, beginning the Saudi conquest, which would be complete on December 1925.\n\nThe number of fatalities in the 1918–19 war was hundreds of killed and thousands of injured. The actual total number of fatalities is estimated at least 1,392.\n\n"}
{"id": "3973626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3973626", "title": "Assyrian Socialist Party", "text": "Assyrian Socialist Party\n\nThe Assyrian Socialist Party, the first Assyrian political party, was founded in 1917 after the Russian revolution, by Dr. Freydun Atturaya, Rabbi Benjamin Bet Arsanis and Dr. Baba Bet Parhad.\n\nIn 2002, an Assyrian Socialist Party (\"Gaba Shawtapaya Atouraya\") was reestablished \"by a group of Assyrian workers in northern Iraq\", so is it stated on its website where its goals are defined as such: \"The ASP(GSA) is a socialist and democratic party, which aims to resuscitate an Assyrian Nation for Assyrian people in an Independent and Popular Republic\"\".\n"}
{"id": "11268796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11268796", "title": "Audiovisual art", "text": "Audiovisual art\n\nAudiovisual art is the exploration of kinetic abstract art and music or sound set in relation to each other. It includes \nvisual music, abstract film, audiovisual performances and installations. \n\nThe book \"Art and the Senses\" cites the Italian Futurist artists, Fortunato Depero and Luigi Russolo as designing art machines in 1915 to create a multisensory experience of sound, movement and colour. In the 1970s Harry Bertoia created sound sculptures of objects to have a multisensory effect, exploring the relationships between the sound, the initiating event and the material properties of the objects. In an example with overt musical connections, \"The Oxford Handbook of New Audiovisual Aesthetics\" cites musician Brian Williams (aka Lustmord) as someone whose practise crosses audiovisual art and mainstream media, where his work is \"not traditionally 'musical'\" and has \"clearly visual aspects\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37659478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37659478", "title": "Bernard Coulie", "text": "Bernard Coulie\n\nBernard Coulie (born 1959) is a Belgian academic specializing in Greek patristic literature primarily of Late Antiquity and its derivatives (hence an expertise in translation techniques) and counterparts in eastern Christian oriental languages of that period (notably Armenian, Syriac and Georgian). A dominant interest has been the work of Gregory of Nazianzus (Gregory the Theologian) and he has been closely associated since the 1980s with the NAZIANZOS project of the University of Louvain-la-Neuve which he has directed for approximately a quarter of a century. Many of his contributions are detailed in the Publications section of the NAZIANZOS site. He has notably undertaken the editorship of volumes of the Corpus Nazianzenum series in Corpus Christianorum, Series Graeca (published by Brepols). This has involved Coulie in co-operation with the computerized CETEDOC editions. He has published work jointly with Georgian and Armenian scholars.\n\nCoulie's initial university studies were at Louvain, Harvard and Vienna.\n\nCoulie is a member of the councils of several academic and comparable institutions, e.g. he is president of the Conseil d'administration of the Fondation Nubar Pasha - Oeuvre des Boursiers armeniens. (A fuller list can be seen in his French language Wikipedia entry).\n\nCoulie is currently editor of the academic journal, \"Le Mouséon\".\n\nCoulie was president of the academic corps of Louvain-la-Neuve University in 1998. He was the third lay person to serve as Rector of Louvain University (2004–2009).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1776719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1776719", "title": "Bi (jade)", "text": "Bi (jade)\n\nThe bi is a type of circular ancient Chinese jade artifact. The earliest \"bi\" were produced in the Neolithic period, particularly by the Liangzhu culture (3400–2250 BCE). Later examples date mainly from the Shang, Zhou and Han dynasties. They were also made in glass.\n\nA \"bi\" is a flat jade disc with a circular hole in the centre. Neolithic \"bi\" are undecorated, while those of later periods of China, like the Zhou dynasty, bear increasingly ornate surface carving (particularly in a hexagonal pattern) whose motifs represented deities associated with the sky (four directions) as well as standing for qualities and powers the wearer wanted to invoke or embody.\n\nAs laboriously crafted objects, they testify to the concentration of power and resources in the hands of a small elite.\n\nLater traditions associate the \"bi\" with heaven, and the \"cong\" with the earth. Bi disks are consistently found with heaven and earth-like imagery, suggesting that the disk's circular shape also bears symbolic significance as this description explains:\n\nThe original function and significance of the \"bi\" are unknown, as the Neolithic cultures have left no written history. From these earliest times they were buried with the dead, as a sky symbol, accompanying the dead into the after world or \"sky\", with the cong which connected the body with the earth. They were placed ceremonially on the body in the grave of persons of high social status. \"Bi\" are sometimes found near the stomach and chest in neolithic burials.\n\nJade, like bi disks, has been used throughout Chinese history to indicate an individual of moral quality, and has also served as an important symbol of rank. They were used in worship and ceremony – as ceremonial items they symbolised the ranks of emperor, king, duke, marquis, viscount, and baron with four different \"Guis\" and two different bi disks.\n\nIn war during the Zhou dynasty period (c. 1046–256 BCE), bi disks belonging to the leaders of the defeated forces were handed over to the victor as a sign of submission.\n\nThe design of the reverse side of the medals given in the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China are based on bi disks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69886", "title": "Charles Taze Russell", "text": "Charles Taze Russell\n\nCharles Taze Russell (February 16, 1852 – October 31, 1916), or Pastor Russell, was an American Christian restorationist minister from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and founder of what is now known as the Bible Student movement. After his death, Jehovah's Witnesses and numerous independent Bible Student groups developed from this base.\n\nIn July 1879, Russell began publishing a monthly religious journal, \"Zion's Watch Tower and Herald of Christ's Presence\". In 1881 he co-founded Zion's Watch Tower Tract Society with William Henry Conley as president; in 1884 the corporation was officially registered, with Russell as president. Russell wrote many articles, books, tracts, pamphlets and sermons, totaling approximately 50,000 printed pages. From 1886 to 1904, he published a six-volume Bible study series originally titled \"Millennial Dawn\", later renamed \"Studies in the Scriptures\", nearly 20 million copies of which were printed and distributed around the world in several languages during his lifetime. (A seventh volume was commissioned by his successor as society president, Joseph Rutherford, and published in 1917.) The Watch Tower Society ceased publication of Russell's writings in 1927, though his books are still published by several independent groups.\n\nAfter Russell's death, a crisis arose surrounding Rutherford's leadership of the society, culminating in a movement-wide schism. As many as three-quarters of the approximately 50,000 Bible Students who had been associating in 1917 had left by 1931. This shift resulted in the formation of several groups that retained variations on the name \"Bible Students\". Those who maintained fellowship with the Watch Tower Society adopted the name \"Jehovah's witnesses\" in 1931, while those who severed ties with the Society formed their own groups including the Pastoral Bible Institute in 1918, the Laymen's Home Missionary Movement in 1919, and the Dawn Bible Students Association in 1929.\n\nCharles Taze Russell was born to Scottish-Irish parents, immigrant Joseph Lytel Russell (d. December 17, 1897) and Ann Eliza Birney (d. January 25, 1861), on February 16, 1852 in Allegheny, Pennsylvania. Russell was the second of five children, of whom two survived into adulthood. His mother died when he was 9 years old.\n\nThe Russells lived for a time in Philadelphia before moving to Pittsburgh, where they became members of the Presbyterian Church. When Charles was in his early teens, his father made him partner of his Pittsburgh haberdashery store. By age twelve, Russell was writing business contracts for customers and given charge of some of his father's other clothing stores. At age thirteen, Russell left the Presbyterian Church to join the Congregational Church. In his youth he was known to chalk Bible verses on fence boards and city sidewalks in an attempt to convert unbelievers; he particularly noted the punishment of hell awaiting the unfaithful.\n\nAt age sixteen, a discussion with a childhood friend on faults perceived in Christianity (such as contradictions in creeds, along with medieval traditions) led Russell to question his faith. He investigated various other religions, but concluded that they did not provide the answers he was seeking. In 1870, at age eighteen, he attended a presentation by Adventist minister Jonas Wendell. Russell later said that, although he had not entirely agreed with Wendell's arguments, the presentation had inspired him with a renewed zeal and belief that the Bible is the word of God.\n\nOn March 13, 1879, Russell married Maria Frances Ackley (; 1850–1938) after a few months' acquaintance. The couple separated in 1897. Russell blamed the marriage breakup on disagreements over Maria Russell's insistence on a greater editorial role in \"Zion's Watch Tower\" magazine. A later court judgment noted that he had labelled the marriage \"a mistake\" three years before the dispute over her editorial ambitions had arisen. Maria Russell filed a suit for legal separation in the Court of Common Pleas at Pittsburgh in June 1903 and three years later filed for divorce under the claim of mental cruelty. She was granted a divorce, with alimony, in 1908. Maria Russell died at the age of 88 in St. Petersburg, Florida on March 12, 1938 from complications related to Hodgkin's disease.\n\nRussell was a charismatic figure, but claimed no special revelation or vision for his teachings and no special authority on his own behalf. He stated that he did not seek to found a new denomination, but intended to gather together those who were seeking the truth of God's Word \"during this harvest time\". He wrote that the \"clear unfolding of truth\" within his teachings was due to \"the simple fact that God's due time has come; and if I did not speak, and no other agent could be found, the very stones would cry out.\" He viewed himself—and all other Christians anointed with the Holy Spirit—as \"God's mouthpiece\" and an ambassador of Christ. Later in his career he accepted without protest that many Bible Students viewed him as the \"faithful and wise servant\" of Matthew 24:45. After his death, the \"Watch Tower\" said that he had been made \"ruler of all the Lord's goods\".\n\nAbout 1870, Russell and his father established a group with a number of acquaintances to undertake an analytical study of the Bible and the origins of Christian doctrine, creed, and tradition. The group, strongly influenced by the writings of Millerite Adventist ministers George Storrs and George Stetson, who were also frequent attendees, concluded that many of the primary doctrines of the established churches, including the Trinity, hellfire, and inherent immortality of the soul, were not substantiated by the scriptures.\n\nAround January 1876 Russell received a copy of Nelson Barbour's \"Herald of the Morning\" in the mail. Barbour was an influential Adventist writer and publisher. Russell telegraphed Barbour to set up a meeting. Barbour and John Henry Paton visited in Allegheny in March 1876 at Russell's expense so that he could hear their arguments, and compare the conclusions that each side had made in their studies. Russell sponsored a speech by Barbour in St. George's Hall, Philadelphia in August 1876 and attended other lectures by Barbour.\n\nAmong the teachings Barbour introduced was the view that Christians who had died would be raised in April 1878. Russell, who had previously rejected prophetic chronology, was moved to devote his life to what he was convinced were now the last two years before the invisible, spiritual return of Christ. He sold his five clothing stores for approximately $300,000 (current value $). With Russell's encouragement and financial backing, Barbour wrote an outline of their views in \"Three Worlds and the Harvest of This World\", published in 1877. A text Russell had previously written, titled \"The Object and Manner of our Lord's Return\", was published concurrently through the offices of the \"Herald of the Morning\". Russell was eager to lead a Christian revival and called two separate meetings of Christian leaders in Pittsburgh. Russell's ideas, particularly stressing the imminence of the rapture and the second advent of Christ, were rejected both times.\n\nWhen 1878 arrived, failure of the expected rapture brought great disappointment for Barbour and Russell, and their associates and readers. But one of Russell's associates, A.H. Macmillan, claimed that Russell was not upset.\n\n</ref>\n\nConfused by what was perceived to be an error in calculation, Russell re-examined the doctrine to see if he could determine whether it had biblical origins or was simply Christian tradition. He concluded that the doctrine was Christian tradition. Through the pages of the \"Herald\", he wrote about what he had concluded on the subject. Barbour, embarrassed by the failure of their expectations, rejected Russell's explanation. They conducted a debate in successive issues of the journal from early 1878 to mid-1879. In a matter of months, Barbour changed some of the views which he and Russell had previously shared, and no longer relied on prophetic chronology. They began to debate over the issue of 'Christ's ransom,' and the two eventually separated because of their disagreements.\n\nRussell withdrew his financial support and started his own journal, \"Zion's Watch Tower and Herald of Christ's Presence\", publishing his first issue in July 1879. Barbour formed The Church of the Strangers that same year, continuing to publish \"Herald of the Morning\".\n\nIn 1881, Russell founded Zion's Watch Tower Tract Society, with William Henry Conley as president and Russell as secretary-treasurer; they intended to disseminate tracts, papers, doctrinal treatises and Bibles. All materials were printed and bound by Russell's privately owned Tower Publishing Company for an agreed price, then distributed by colporteurs. The Society was incorporated in 1884, with Russell as president, and in 1886 its name was changed to Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society.\n\nIn 1908, Russell transferred the headquarters of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society to Brooklyn, New York where it remained until 2016.\n\nWith the formation of the Watch Tower Society, Russell intensified his ministry. His Bible study group had grown to hundreds of local members, with followers throughout New England, the Virginias, Ohio, and elsewhere. They annually re-elected him \"Pastor\", and commonly referred to him as \"Pastor Russell\". Congregations that eventually formed in other nations also followed this tradition.\n\nIn 1881, Russell published his first work to gain wide distribution: \"Food for Thinking Christians.\" The 162-page \"pamphlet\" was published using donated funds amounting to approximately $40,000 (current value $). It had a circulation of nearly 1.5 million copies over a period of four months distributed throughout the United States, Canada and Great Britain by various channels. During the same year he published \"Tabernacle and its Teachings\" which was quickly expanded and reissued as \"Tabernacle Shadows of the \"Better Sacrifices\",\" outlining his interpretation of the various animal sacrifices and tabernacle ceremonies instituted by Moses. Russell claimed that the distribution of these works and other tracts by the Watch Tower Society during 1881 exceeded by eight times that of the American Tract Society for the year 1880.\n\nIn 1903, newspapers began publishing his written sermons. These newspaper sermons were syndicated worldwide in as many as 4,000 newspapers, eventually reaching an estimated readership of some 15 million in the United States and Canada.\n\nIn 1910 the secular journal \"Overland Monthly\" calculated that by 1909, Russell's writings had become the most widely distributed, privately produced English-language works in the United States. It said that the entire corpus of his works were the third most circulated on earth, after the Bible and the Chinese Almanac. In 1912 \"The Continent\", a Presbyterian journal, stated that in North America Russell's writings had achieved a greater circulation \"than the combined circulation of the writings of all the priests and preachers in North America.\"\n\nRussell also had many critics, and he was frequently described as a heretic in this period.\n\nRussell devoted nearly a tenth of his fortune, along with contributed funds, in publishing and distributing \"Food for Thinking Christians\" in 1881. That year he also published \"The Tabernacle and its Teachings\" and \"Tabernacle Shadows of the Better Sacrifices\". In 1886, after reportedly not making back most of the money spent publishing these three titles, he began publication of what was intended to be a seven-volume series. The volumes were collectively called \"Millennial Dawn\", later renamed \"Studies in the Scriptures\" to clarify that they were not novels. Russell published six volumes in the series:\n\nThe delayed publication of the seventh volume became a source of great anticipation and mystery among Bible Students. Following Russell's death in 1916, a seventh volume titled \"The Finished Mystery\" was published in 1917; this was advertised as his \"posthumous work\". This seventh volume was a detailed interpretation of the Book of Revelation, but also included interpretations of Ezekiel and the Song of Solomon. Controversy quickly surrounded both its publication and content. It soon became known that much of the contents were written and compiled by two of Russell's associates, Clayton J. Woodworth and George H. Fisher, and edited by Joseph Rutherford, by then the new president of the Watch Tower Society.\n\nRussell directed the production of a worldwide roadshow presentation titled \"The Photo-Drama of Creation\", an innovative eight-hour religious film in four parts. It was the first major screenplay to incorporate synchronized sound, moving film, and color slides. Production began as early as 1912, and the \"Drama\" was introduced in 1914 by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. A book by the same name was also published. The project's expenses put the organization under some financial pressures; the full cost was estimated at about US$300,000 (current value $).\n\nFollowing his analytical examination of the Bible, Russell and other Bible Students came to believe that Christian creeds and traditions were harmful errors. They thought their own work was restoring Christianity to the purity of its first century. Many Church leaders and scholars in his day considered this to be heresy. Russell agreed with other Protestants on the primacy of the Bible, and justification by faith alone, but thought that errors had been introduced in interpretation. Russell agreed with many 19th-century Protestants, including Millerites, in the concept of a Great Apostasy that began in the first century AD. He also agreed with many other contemporary Protestants in belief in the imminent Second Coming of Christ, and Armageddon.\n\nHis Scriptural interpretations differed from those of Catholics, and many Protestants, in the following areas: \n\n\nRussell's health had become increasingly poor in the last three years leading up to his death. During his final ministerial tour of the western and southwestern United States, he became increasingly ill with cystitis, but ignored advice to abandon the tour. He was increasingly ill and weak during his last week. Russell died on October 31, 1916 at age 64 near Pampa, Texas, while returning to Brooklyn by train. An associate of Russell's stated that at age 64 his body was more worn out than that of his father who died at age 89. He was buried in Rosemont United Cemetery, Pittsburgh. The gravesite (\"vide\" coordinates above) is marked by a headstone; nearby stands a pyramid memorial erected by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society in 1921.\n\nIn January 1917, Joseph Franklin Rutherford was elected president of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society, despite disputes over the election process. Further disputes arose over interpretation of sections of Russell's will dealing with the future contents of \"Zion's Watch Tower\" magazine, as well as who, if anyone, had authority to print new literature. By the end of the 1920s, nearly three quarters of the Bible Student congregations had rejected Rutherford's on-going changes in organizational structure, doctrinal interpretations, and congregational practices, some of which began to appear in material printed by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society as early as 1917. Many Bible Students were disaffected by Rutherford's rejection of Russell's views regarding his role in the restoration of the \"truth\" and support of the Great Pyramid as having been built under God's direction.\n\nThose remaining supportive of Rutherford adopted the new name \"Jehovah's witnesses\" in 1931. They renamed their magazine as \"The Watchtower\". Many of the most prominent Bible Students who had left the society held their own meeting in October 1929 to gather other dissenters; the First Annual Bible Students Reunion Convention was held in the old Pittsburgh \"Bible House\" long used by Russell. These conventions were held yearly, but the process of 'regathering' took nearly twenty years.\n\nAs early as 1892, Russell's views and management style were strongly criticized by certain individuals associated with his ministry. In 1893 a paper was written and circulated to Bible Students in Pittsburgh by associates Otto van Zech, Elmer Bryan, J. B. Adamson, S. G. Rogers, Paul Koetitz, and others. It accused Russell of being a dictatorial leader, a shrewd businessman who appeared eager to collect funds from the selling of the \"Millennial Dawn\" books, of cheating one of them financially, and of issuing thousands of \"Millennial Dawn\" books under a female pseudonym. Russell wrote a booklet \"A Conspiracy Exposed and Harvest Siftings\" in response, issuing it as an extra to the April 1894 \"Zion's Watch Tower\" magazine. He intended to pre-empt efforts by his critics to circulate their views to a wider audience of Bible Students. Russell printed copies of letters he had received from these former associates in order to show that their claims were false, and that those involved 'were guided by Satan in an attempt to subvert his work' as a \"minister of the gospel\".\n\nIn 1897 Russell's wife, Maria, left him after a disagreement over the management of \"Zion's Watch Tower\" magazine. According to Russell's successor Joseph Franklin Rutherford, she believed that, as his wife, she should have equal control over its administration and equal privilege in writing articles, preaching, and traveling abroad as his representative. In 1903 she filed for legal separation on the grounds of mental cruelty, referring to forced celibacy and frequent cold, indifferent treatment by him. The separation was granted in 1906, with Russell charged to pay alimony.\n\nDuring the trial Mrs. Russell's attorney alleged that in 1894 Mr. Russell had engaged in \"improper intimacy\" with Rose Ball, by then a 25-year-old woman. The Russells had cared for her as a foster daughter said to be an orphan. Mrs. Russell alleged that Ball had told her Mr. Russell claimed to be an amorous \"jellyfish floating around\" to different women until someone responded to his advances. Mr. Russell denied the accusations and said he had never used such language to describe himself. When the judge asked Mrs. Russell if she was accusing her husband of adultery, she replied, \"No\".\n\n\"The Washington Post\" and the \"Mission Friend\" of Chicago reprinted the \"jellyfish\" story while also accusing Russell of immoral conduct. Russell sued the papers for libel; the jury decided in his favor, awarding him one dollar. Following an appeal, Russell received a cash settlement of $15,000 (current value $) plus court costs, and an agreement that the two papers publish his weekly syndicated sermons as well as a retraction defending his character.\n\nRose Ball later married and lived in Australia. As Rose Ball Henninges, she died November 22, 1950 at the age of 81 in Melbourne, Australia. For several years she had written articles for \"The People's Paper\" and was associated with the Bible Students in Australia until her death.\n\nOn March 22, 1911, \"The Brooklyn Daily Eagle\" reported that Russell was accused of gaining profit from a strain of wheat named \"Miracle Wheat\" by K.B. Stoner of Fincastle, Virginia, who claimed to have discovered this strain. Russell sold the wheat for $60 per bushel, far above the average cost of wheat at the time. Throughout 1912 and 1913, the \"Eagle\" continued to report on Russell's alleged fraud. Russell sued the \"Eagle\" for libel, but lost. A government expert investigated the \"Miracle Wheat\" and said it \"was low in the Government tests\". Prior to entering the court, the \"Eagle\" declared that \"at the trial it will show that \"Pastor\" Russell's religious cult is nothing more than a money-making scheme.\" Russell defended himself publicly, and in writing, claiming that the wheat was donated to the Watch Tower Society. He said that although sold for $1 per pound, Mr. Stoner allegedly routinely sold it for a $1.25 per pound. Russell claimed to have no financial connection to the wheat, and said that no one claimed a refund although he had offered one for up to a year later for any who were dissatisfied with their purchase. In 1975, the Watch Tower Society stated that gross receipts from the \"Miracle Wheat\" fundraiser totaled \"about $1800\" (current value $), of which \"Russell himself did not get a penny\". It also said that \"the Society itself made no claim for the wheat on its own knowledge and the money received went as a donation into Christian missionary work.\"\n\nIn June 1912 Rev. J. J. Ross (1871–1935), Pastor of the James Street Baptist Church in Hamilton, Ontario, published and widely distributed a four-page leaflet titled, \"Some Facts about the Self-Styled \"Pastor\" Charles T. Russell (of Millennial Dawn Fame).\" He alleged that Russell was involved in questionable business practices, had defrauded his estranged wife, and denounced his qualifications, legitimacy and moral example as a Pastor. Russell, in turn, sued Ross for defamatory libel on December 2, 1912. After several delays the case came before Police Court Magistrate G. F. Jelfs on March 17, 1913. During cross-examination Russell said that he had attended public school for seven years, having left when he was about fourteen years of age, after which he received instruction through private tutors. He said that he was versed in Latin terms \"to an extent\" but did not know Hebrew or Greek, that he had never been ordained by any bishop or minister, and had never attended a theological seminary or any schools of higher learning. The Hamilton and Toronto Ontario newspapers reported the claims made by Ross and provided a brief outline of the court proceedings. They did not refer to any alleged misconduct on the part of Russell. They criticized Ross for having fled Ontario when summoned and not being present during any of the court proceedings.\n\nOn April 1, 1913 the High Court of Ontario returned a verdict of \"No Bill\" ruling that Russell was not entitled to damages because, the libel was not likely to result in any violence within Canada. Following the libel case, Ross published an expanded edition of 48-pages titled, \"Some Facts and More Facts about the Self-Styled \"Pastor\" Charles T. Russell (of Millennial Dawn Fame)\". In this work, Ross claimed that during the proceedings on March 17, 1913, Russell had repeatedly lied under oath by affirming that he was ordained, but denying the same when cross-examined, by affirming that he knew the Greek language, but when shown by Counselor Staunton an extract from the New Testament in Greek by Westcott & Hort, he was unable to recognize it, and that he had not been divorced from his wife, but retracted the statement under cross-examination. In response, Russell stated through various printed and public sources that he had never claimed knowledge of the Greek language, merely the alphabet and that early Christians were also criticized by the religious authorities for being unlearned and ignorant. He believed that his ordination was \"of God\" according to the biblical pattern, not requiring any denominational approval or theological training. He suggested that his annual election as \"Pastor\" by over 500 congregations worldwide constituted him as properly ordained. Russell contended that Ross and others were attacking him, because they were unable to answer his theological arguments, preferring instead to resort to slander and character assassination.\n\nSome have claimed that various symbols Russell employed in his published literature are Masonic in nature, and that such associations implied he engaged in occult activity. In later editions of the \"Studies in the Scriptures\" series a winged solar disk was stamped on the front cover, a symbol that is also associated with Freemasonry. However, Russell's use of the winged solar-disk originated from his understanding of Malachi 4:2, which denotes a sun with wings, as a symbol that Christ's millennial Kingdom had begun to emerge. Some critics also claim that the pyramid near Russell's gravesite is Masonic, because of its shape and its use of the Cross and Crown symbol, although this remains disputed. The Grand Lodge of British Columbia and Yukon has said that Russell was not a Freemason, and notes that these symbols under discussion used are not exclusive to Masonry but pre-date the fraternity.\n\nIn June 1913, during a transcontinental speaking tour, Russell lectured in a Masonic hall in San Francisco, saying: \n\nAlthough I have never been a Mason ... Something I do seems to be the same as Masons do, I don't know what it is; but they often give me all kinds of grips and I give them back, then I tell them I don't know anything about it except just a few grips that have come to me naturally.\n\nThroughout his ministry he said that he believed Christian identity is incompatible with Freemasonry. He described Freemasonry, Knights of Pythias, Theosophy, and other such groups as \"grievous evils\" and \"unclean\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15164708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15164708", "title": "Chia Jani", "text": "Chia Jani\n\nChia Jani is an archaeological site in Iran, located along the Qouchemi stream, which flows to the Ravand River about south, in south central part of the Islamabad Plain in the Central-West Zagros Mountains.\n\nThe site was discovered by Kamyar Abdi during his archaeological surveys in the plain in 1999. This site dates to the Early (Aceramic) and Middle Neolithic period. Parts of the site are washed off by the Qouchemi stream and damaged due to expansion of agricultural land. Its lithic industry is characterized by bladelet production which some are made from obsidian. Other notable material include the so-called \"tad pole ware\" of the Middle Neolithic period and Plano-convex bricks reported from Early to Middle Neolithic sites in the region, including Sarab and Ganj Darreh to the east and Jarmo to the west.\n\nPlans for excavations at Chia Jani, funded by a grant from the National Geographic Society, came to a halt with the 2003 invasion of Iraq that rendered Islamabad Plain, only from the Iraqi border, unsafe for an international archaeological expedition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14051012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14051012", "title": "Claire Barratt", "text": "Claire Barratt\n\nClaire Barratt (born 1974) is an English industrial archaeologist, steam engineer and television presenter.\n\nBarratt studied civil engineering at the University of Portsmouth, and whilst doing so, became more interested in mechanical engineering.\n\nOn graduation she worked at the Chiltern Open Air Museum, the Royal Armouries and the British Engineerium, where she remains a consultant engineer. It was from here that her television career was launched when she appeared on Channel 4's \"Salvage Squad\" – a programme about restoring historical machinery – first as a participant, later as co-presenter. Whilst filming, she completed a master's degree in Conservation of Industrial Heritage and won the Association for Industrial Archaeology Student Fieldwork Award.\n\nPresently a freelance consultant industrial archaeologist, Barratt has restored and run many different vehicles, and is currently restoring a watermill in Cornwall. She is a member of Subterranea Britannica, a society which studies and records man-made underground sites.\n\nBarratt is married to Ben, and the pair have two daughters and a pet dog.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42812662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42812662", "title": "Din Dryfol", "text": "Din Dryfol\n\nDin Dryfol is a Neolithic burial chamber on Anglesey, in Wales. It is a scheduled monument and is maintained by Cadw. The monument is near Bethel. Three phases of use have been identified, all dating from the Neolithic period. It is \n\nDin Dryfol is the remains of a burial chamber, part of a passage grave, a neolithic structure erected in several stages, and a type of burial structure more frequently found in Ireland than in Wales. The first part may have been constructed about 5,000 years ago. \n\nThe dolmen is located on a level platform on the flank of a small hill and is oriented northeast to southwest. Excavations in the 1960s and 1970s have identified the different phases of the development. The first chamber was constructed with side slabs and a capstone, making a rectangular box some and about tall. This is the main structure that can be seen today, the capstone having slipped to one side to rest upon the ground. The second chamber was constructed to the northeast of this, and nothing remains of it now. However two post holes show where a wooden portal or some other structure stood. The third chamber was built to the northeast of the second one. It was about long and parts are still visible in the form of a small upright, a large portal stone standing high and some way away from the other stones, and a stone stump, perhaps the remains of another portal. The whole structure would have been covered with a mound of earth or rubble, probably small and circular over the original chamber, but much longer and rather wider when all three chambers had been constructed. Although this mound has disappeared, excavations suggest that it stretched for about and was about wide. Excavations have revealed pieces of pottery and cremation sites.\n\nThe site showed evidence of disturbance during the Roman period, with Romano-British pottery unearthed during the 1970s excavations. It was also affected by road-building in the 18th and 19th century, when here was quarrying in the area. There is now no sign of a cairn or mound. The monument was recorded in 1871 by H Pritchard, and excavated by F Lynch, firstly in 1969 to 1970 and again in 1980, which identified the phases of construction. Wooden entrance posts to the second of three chambers, to the east of the earlier structure, were also identified.\n\ncadw.gov.wales/daysout/dindryfolburialchamber\n"}
{"id": "21369171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21369171", "title": "Engraved gem", "text": "Engraved gem\n\nAn engraved gem, frequently referred to as an intaglio, is a small and usually semi-precious gemstone that has been carved, in the Western tradition normally with images or inscriptions only on one face. The engraving of gemstones was a major luxury art form in the Ancient world, and an important one in some later periods.\n\nStrictly speaking, \"engraving\" means carving \"in intaglio\" (with the design cut \"into\" the flat background of the stone), but relief carvings (with the design projecting \"out of\" the background as in nearly all cameos) are also covered by the term. This article uses \"cameo\" in its strict sense, to denote a carving exploiting layers of differently coloured stone. The activity is also called \"gem carving\" and the artists \"gem-cutters\". References to antique gems and intaglios in a jewellery context will almost always mean carved gems; when referring to monumental sculpture, counter-relief, meaning the same as \"intaglio\", is more likely to be used. Vessels like the Cup of the Ptolemies and heads or figures carved in the round are also known as \"hardstone carvings\".\n\nGlyptics or \"glyptic art\" covers the field of small carved stones, including cylinder seals and inscriptions, especially in an archaeological context. Though they were keenly collected in antiquity, most carved gems originally functioned as seals, often mounted in a ring; intaglio designs register most clearly when viewed by the recipient of a letter as an impression in hardened wax. A finely carved seal was practical, as it made forgery more difficult – the distinctive personal signature did not really exist in antiquity.\n\nGems were mostly cut by using abrasive powder from harder stones in conjunction with a hand-drill, probably often set in a lathe. Emery has been mined for abrasive powder on Naxos since antiquity. Some early types of seal were cut by hand, rather than a drill, which does not allow fine detail. There is no evidence that magnifying lenses were used by gem cutters in antiquity. A medieval guide to gem-carving techniques survives from Theophilus Presbyter. Byzantine cutters used a flat-edged wheel on a drill for intaglio work, while Carolingian ones used round-tipped drills; it is unclear where they learnt this technique from. In intaglio gems at least, the recessed cut surface is usually very well preserved, and microscopic examination is revealing of the technique used. The colour of several gemstones can be enhanced by a number of artificial methods, using heat, sugar and dyes. Many of these can be shown to have been used since antiquity – since the 7th millennium BC in the case of heating.\n\nThe technique has an ancient tradition in the Near East, and is represented in all or most early cultures from the area, and the Indus Valley civilization. The cylinder seal, whose design only appears when rolled over damp clay, from which the flat ring type developed, was the usual form in Mesopotamia, Assyria and other cultures, and spread to the Minoan world, including parts of Greece and Cyprus. These were made in various types of stone, not all hardstone. The Greek tradition emerged in Ancient Greek art under Minoan influence on mainland Helladic culture, and reached an apogee of subtlety and refinement in the Hellenistic period. Pre-Hellenic Ancient Egyptian seals tend to have inscriptions in hieroglyphs rather than images. The Biblical Book of Exodus describes the form of the hoshen, a ceremonial breastplate worn by the High Priest, bearing twelve gems engraved with the names of the Twelve tribes of Israel.\n\nRound or oval Greek gems (along with similar objects in bone and ivory) are found from the 8th and 7th centuries BC, usually with animals in energetic geometric poses, often with a border marked by dots or a rim. Early examples are mostly in softer stones. Gems of the 6th century are more often oval, with a scarab back (in the past this type was called a \"scarabaeus\"), and human or divine figures as well as animals; the scarab form was apparently adopted from Phoenicia. The forms are sophisticated for the period, despite the usually small size of the gems. In the 5th century gems became somewhat larger, but still only 2-3 centimetres tall. Despite this, very fine detail is shown, including the eyelashes on one male head, perhaps a portrait. Four gems signed by Dexamenos of Chios are the finest of the period, two showing herons.\nRelief carving became common in 5th century BC Greece, and gradually most of the spectacular carved gems in the Western tradition were in relief, although the Sassanian and other traditions remained faithful to the intaglio form. Generally a relief image is more impressive than an intaglio one; in the earlier form the recipient of a document saw this in the impressed sealing wax, while in the later reliefs it was the owner of the seal who kept it for himself, probably marking the emergence of gems meant to be collected or worn as jewellery pendants in necklaces and the like, rather than used as seals – later ones are sometimes rather large to use to seal letters. However inscriptions are usually still in reverse (\"mirror-writing\") so they only read correctly on impressions (or by viewing from behind with transparent stones). This aspect also partly explains the collecting of impressions in plaster or wax from gems, which may be easier to appreciate than the original.\n\nThe cameo, which is rare in intaglio form, seems to have reached Greece around the 3rd century; the Farnese Tazza is the only major surviving Hellenistic example (depending on the date assigned to the Gonzaga Cameo – see below), but other glass-paste imitations with portraits suggest that gem-type cameos were made in this period. The conquests of Alexander the Great had opened up new trade routes to the Greek world and increased the range of gemstones available. Roman gems generally continued Hellenistic styles, and can be hard to date, until their quality sharply declines at the end of the 2nd century AD. Philosophers are sometimes shown; Cicero refers to people having portraits of their favourite on their cups and rings. The Romans invented cameo glass, best known from the Portland Vase, as a cheaper material for cameos, and one that allowed consistent and predictable layers on even round objects.\nDuring the European Middle Ages antique engraved gems were one classical art form which was always highly valued, and a large but unknown number of ancient gems have (unlike most surviving classical works of art) never been buried and then excavated. Gems were used to decorate elaborate pieces of goldsmith work such as votive crowns, book-covers and crosses, sometimes very inappropriately given their subject matter. Matthew Paris illustrated a number of gems owned by St Albans Abbey, including one large Late Roman imperial cameo (now lost) called \"Kaadmau\" which was used to induce overdue childbirths – it was slowly lowered, with a prayer to St Alban, on its chain down the woman's cleavage, as it was believed that the infant would flee downwards to escape it, a belief in accordance with the views of the \"father of mineralogy\", Georgius Agricola (1494–1555) on jasper. Some gems were engraved, mostly with religious scenes in intaglio, during the period both in Byzantium and Europe.\n\nIn the West production revived from the Carolingian period, when rock crystal was the commonest material. The Lothair Crystal (or \"Suzanna Crystal\", British Museum, 11.5 cm diameter), clearly not designed for use as a seal, is the best known of 20 surviving Carolingian large intaglio gems with complex figural scenes, although most were used for seals. Several crystals were designed, like the \"Susanna Crystal\", to be viewed through the gem from the unengraved side, so their inscriptions were reversed like the seals. In wills and inventories, engraved gems were often given pride of place at the head of a list of treasures.\n\nSome gems in a remarkably effective evocation of classical style were made in Southern Italy for the court of Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor in the first half of the 13th century, several in the Cabinet des Médailles in Paris. Meanwhile, the church led the development of large, often double-sided, metal seal matrices for wax seals that were left permanently attached to charters and similar legal documents, dangling by a cord, though smaller ring seals that were broken when a letter was opened remained in use. It is not clear to what extent this also continued practices in the ancient world.\n\nThe late medieval French and Burgundian courts collected and commissioned gems, and began to use them for portraits. The British Museum has what is probably a seated portrait of John, Duke of Berry in intaglio on a sapphire, and the Hermitage has a cameo head of Charles VII of France.\n\nInterest had also revived in Early Renaissance Italy, where Venice soon became a particular centre of production. Along with the Roman statues and sarcophagi being newly excavated, antique gems were prime sources for artists eager to regain a classical figurative vocabulary. Cast bronze copies of gems were made, which circulated around Italy, and later Europe. Among very many examples of borrowings that can be traced confidently, the \"Felix\" or \"Diomedes\" gem owned by Lorenzo il Magnifico (see below), with an unusual pose, was copied by Leonardo da Vinci and may well have provided the \"starting point\" for one of Michelangelo's \"ignudi\" on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. Another of Lorenzo's gems supplied, probably via a drawing by Perugino, a pose used by Raphael.\n\nBy the 16th century carved and engraved gems were keenly collected across Europe for dedicated sections of a cabinet of curiosities, and their production revived, in classical styles; 16th-century gem-cutters working with the same types of sardonyx and other hardstones and using virtually the same techniques, produced classicizing works of glyptic art, often intended as forgeries, in such quantity that they compromised the market for them, as Gisela Richter observed in 1922. Even today, Sir John Boardman admits that \"We are sometimes at a loss to know whether what we are looking at belongs to the 1st or the 15th century AD, a sad confession for any art-historian.\" Other Renaissance gems reveal their date by showing mythological scenes derived from literature that were not part of the visual repertoire in classical times, or borrowing compositions from Renaissance paintings, and using \"compositions with rather more figures than any ancient engraver would have tolerated or attempted\". Among artists, the wealthy Rubens was a notable collector.\n\nEngraved gems occur in the Bible, especially when the hoshen and ephod worn by the High Priest are described; though these were inscribed with the names of the tribes of Israel in letters, rather than any images. A few identifiably Jewish gems survive from the classical world, including Persia, mostly with the owner's name in Hebrew, but some with symbols such as the menorah. Many gems are inscribed in the Islamic world, typically with verses from the Koran, and sometimes gems in the Western tradition just contain inscriptions.\n\nMany Asian and Middle Eastern cultures have their own traditions, although for example the important Chinese tradition of carved gemstones and hardstones, especially jade carving, is broader than the European one of concentration on a flattish faced stone that might fit into a ring. Seal engraving covers the inscription that is printed by stamping, which nearly always only contains script rather than images. Other decoration of the seal itself was not intended to be reproduced.\n\nThe iconography of gems is similar to that of coins, though more varied. Early gems mostly show animals. Gods, satyrs, and mythological scenes were common, and famous statues often represented – much modern knowledge of the poses of lost Greek cult statues such as Athena Promachos comes from the study of gems, which often have clearer images than coins. A 6th(?) century BC Greek gem already shows Ajax committing suicide, with his name inscribed. The story of Heracles was, as in other arts, the most common source of narrative subjects. A scene may be intended as the subject of an early Archaic gem, and certainly appears on 6th century examples from the later Archaic period.\n\nPortraits of monarchs are found from the Hellenistic period onwards, although as they do not usually have identifying inscriptions, many fine ones cannot be identified with a subject. In the Roman Imperial period, portraits of the imperial family were often produced for the court circle, and many of these have survived, especially a number of spectacular cameos from the time of Augustus. As private objects, produced no doubt by artists trained in the tradition of Hellenistic monarchies, their iconography is less inhibited than the public state art of the period about showing divine attributes as well as sexual matters. The identity and interpretation of figures in the Gemma Augustea remains unclear. A number of gems from the same period contain scenes apparently from the lost epic on the Sack of Troy, of which the finest is by Dioskurides (Chatsworth House).\n\nRenaissance and later gems remain dominated by the Hellenistic repertoire of subjects, though portraits in contemporary styles were also produced.\n\nFamous collectors begin with King Mithridates VI of Pontus (d. 63 BC), whose collection was part of the booty of Pompey the Great, who donated it to the Temple of Jupiter in Rome. Julius Caesar was determined to excel Pompey in this as in other areas, and later gave six collections to his own Temple of Venus Genetrix; according to Suetonius gems were among his varied collecting passions. Many later emperors also collected gems. Chapters 4-6 of Book 37 of the \"Natural History\" of Pliny the Elder give a summary art history of the Greek and Roman tradition, and of Roman collecting. According to Pliny Marcus Aemilius Scaurus (praetor 56 BC) was the first Roman collector.\n\nAs in later periods objects carved in the round from semi-precious stone were regarded as a similar category of object; these are also known as hardstone carvings. One of the largest, the \"Coupe des Ptolémées\" was probably donated to the Basilica of Saint-Denis, near Paris, by Charles the Bald, as the inscription on its former gem-studded gold Carolingian mounting stated; it may have belonged to Charlemagne. One of the best collections of such vessels, though mostly plain without carved decoration, was looted from Constantinople in the Fourth Crusade, and is in the Treasury of the Basilica of San Marco in Venice. Many of these retain the medieval mounts which adapted them for liturgical use. Like the \"Coupe des Ptolémées\", most objects in European museums lost these when they became objects of classicist interest from the Renaissance onwards, or when the mounts were removed for the value of the materials, as happened to many in the French Revolution.\nThe collection of 827 engraved gems of Pope Paul II, which included the \"Felix gem\" of Diomedes with the Palladium, was acquired by Lorenzo il Magnifico; the Medici collection included many other gems and was legendary, valued in inventories much higher than his Botticellis. Somewhat like Chinese collectors, Lorenzo had all his gems inscribed with his name.\n\nThe Gonzaga Cameo passed through a series of famous collections before coming to rest in the Hermitage. First known in the collection of Isabella d'Este, it passed to the Gonzaga Dukes of Mantua, Emperor Rudolf II, Queen Christina of Sweden, Cardinal Decio Azzolini, Livio Odescalchi, Duke of Bracciano, and Pope Pius VI before Napoleon carried it off to Paris, where his Empress Joséphine gave it to Alexander I of Russia after Napoleon's downfall, as a token of goodwill. It remains disputed whether the cameo is Alexandrian work of the 3rd century BC, or a Julio-Claudian imitation of the style from the 1st century AD.\n\nThree of the largest cameo gems from antiquity were created for members of the Julio-Claudian dynasty and seem to have survived above ground since antiquity. The large Gemma Augustea appeared in 1246 in the treasury of the Basilique St-Sernin, Toulouse. In 1533, King François I appropriated it and moved it to Paris, where it soon disappeared around 1590. Not long thereafter it was fenced for 12,000 gold pieces to Emperor Rudolph II; it remains in Vienna, alongside the Gemma Claudia. The largest flat engraved gem known from antiquity is the Great Cameo of France, which entered (or re-entered) the French royal collection in 1791 from the treasury of Sainte-Chapelle, where it had been since at least 1291.\nIn England, a false dawn of gem collecting was represented by Henry, Prince of Wales' purchase of the cabinet of the Flemish antiquary Abraham Gorlaeus in 1609, and engraved gems featured among the antiquities assembled by Thomas Howard, 21st Earl of Arundel. Later in the century William Cavendish, 2nd Duke of Devonshire, formed a collection of gems that is still conserved at Chatsworth. In the eighteenth century a more discerning cabinet of gems was assembled by Henry Howard, 4th Earl of Carlisle, acting upon the advice of Francesco Maria Zanetti and Francesco Ficoroni; 170 of the Carlisle gems, both Classical and post-Classical, were purchased in 1890 for the British Museum.\n\nBy the mid-eighteenth century prices had reached such a level that major collections could only be formed by the very wealthy; lesser collectors had to make do with collecting plaster casts, which was also very popular, or buying one of many sumptuously illustrated catalogues of collections that were published. Catherine the Great's collection is in the Hermitage Museum; one large collection she had bought was the gems from the Orléans Collection. Louis XV of France hired Dominique Vivant to assemble a collection for Madame de Pompadour.\nIn the eighteenth century British aristocrats were able to outcompete even the agents for royal and princely collectors on the Continent, aided by connoisseur-dealers like Count Antonio Maria Zanetti and Philipp von Stosch. Zanetti travelled Europe in pursuit of gems hidden in private collections for the British aristocrats he tutored in connoisseurship; his own collection was described in A.F. Gori, \"Le gemme antiche di Anton Maria Zanetti\" (Venice, 1750), illustrated with eighty plates of engravings from his own drawings. Baron Philipp von Stosch (1691–1757), a Prussian who lived in Rome and then Florence, was a major collector, as well as a dealer in engraved gems: \"busy, unscrupulous, and in his spare time a spy for England in Italy\". Among his contemporaries, Stosch made his lasting impression with \"Gemmæ Antiquæ Cælatæ\" (\"Pierres antiques graveés\") (1724), in which Bernard Picart's engravings reproduced seventy antique carved hardstones like onyx, jasper and carnelian from European collections. He also encouraged Johann Lorenz Natter (1705–1763) whom Stosch set to copying ancient carved gems in Florence. Frederick the Great of Prussia bought Stosch's collection in 1765 and built the Antique Temple in the park of the Sanssouci Palace to house his collections of ancient sculpture, coins and over 4,000 gems – the two were naturally often grouped together. The gems are now in the Antikensammlung Berlin.\nThe collection of Joseph Smith, British consul in Venice was bought by George III of England and remains in the Royal Collection. The collections of Charles Towneley, Richard Payne Knight and Clayton Mordaunt Cracherode were bought by or bequeathed to the British Museum, founding their very important collection. But the most famous English collection was that formed by the 4th Duke of Marlborough (1739–1817), \"which the Duke kept in his bedroom and resorted to as a relief from his ambitious wife, his busy sister and his many children\". This included collections formerly owned by the Gonzagas of Mantua (later owned by Lord Arundel), the 2nd Earl of Bessborough, and the brother of Lord Chesterfield, who himself warned his son in one of his \"Letters\" against \"days lost in poring upon imperceptible intaglios and cameos\". The collection, including its single most famous cameo, \"the\" \"Marlborough gem\" depicting an initiation of Cupid and Psyche, was dispersed after a sale in 1899, fortunately timed for the new American museums and provided the core of the collection of the Metropolitan in New York and elsewhere, with the largest group still together being about 100 in the Walters Art Museum, Baltimore.\n\nPrince Stanisław Poniatowski (1754–1833) \"commissioned about 2500 gems and encouraged the belief that they were, in fact, ancient.\" He presented a set of 419 plaster impressions of his collection to the King of Prussia which now form the Daktyliothek Poniatowski in Berlin, where they were recognised as modern in 1832, mainly because the signatures of ancient artists from very different times were found on gems in too consistent a style.\n\nAs in other fields, not many ancient artists' names are known from literary sources, although some gems are signed. According to Pliny, Pyrgoteles was the only artist allowed to carve gems for the seal rings of Alexander the Great. Most of the most famous Roman artists were Greeks, like Dioskurides, who is thought to have produced the Gemma Augustea, and is recorded as the artist of the matching signet rings of Augustus – very carefully controlled, they allowed orders to be issued in his name by his most trusted associates. Other works survive signed by him (rather more than are all likely to be genuine), and his son Hyllos was also a gem engraver.\n\nThe Anichini family were leading artists in Venice and elsewhere in the 15th and 16th centuries. Many Renaissance artists no doubt kept their activities quiet, as they were passing their products off as antique. Other specialist carvers included Giovanni Bernardi (1494–1553), Giovanni Jacopo Caraglio (c. 1500–1565), Giuseppe Antonio Torricelli (1662–1719), the German-Italian Anton Pichler (1697–1779) and his sons Giovanni and Luigi, Charles Christian Reisen (Anglo-Norwegian, 1680–1725). Other sculptors also carved gems, or had someone in their workshop who did. Leone Leoni said he personally spent two months on a double-sided cameo gem with portraits of Holy Roman Emperor Charles V and his wife and son.\n\nThe Scot James Tassie (1735–1799), and his nephew William (1777–1860) developed methods for taking hard impressions from old gems, and also for casting new designs from carved wax in enamel, enabling a huge production of what are really imitation engraved gems. The fullest catalogue of his impressions (\"Tassie gems\") was published in 1791, with 15,800 items. There are complete sets of the impressions in the Hermitage, the Victoria & Albert Museum in London, and in Edinburgh. Other types of imitation became fashionable for ladies' brooches, such as ceramic cameos by Josiah Wedgwood in jasperware. The engraved gem fell permanently out of fashion from about the 1860s, perhaps partly as a growing realization of the number of gems that were not what they seemed to be scared collectors. Among the last practitioners was James Robertson, who sensibly moved into the new art of photography. Perhaps the best known gem engraver of the 20th century, working in a contemporary idiom, is the British artist Ronald Pennell, whose work is held in the British Crafts Council Collection among many others.\n\nCameo glass was invented by the Romans in about 30BC to imitate engraved hardstone cameos, with the advantage that consistent layering could be achieved even on round vessels – impossible with natural gemstones. It was however very difficult to manufacture and surviving pieces, mostly famously the Portland Vase, are actually much rarer than Roman gemstone cameos. The technique was revived in the 18th and especially 19th centuries in England and elsewhere, and was most effectively used in French Art Nouveau glass that made no attempt to follow classical styles.\n\nThe Middle Ages, which lived by charters and other sealed documents, were at least as keen on using seals as the ancient world, now creating them for towns and church institutions, but they normally used metal matrices and signet rings. However some objects, like a 13th-century Venetian \"Seven Sleepers of Ephesus\", mimicked the engraved gem.\n\nAnother offshoot of the mania for engraved gems is the fine-grained slightly translucent stoneware called jasperware that was developed by Josiah Wedgwood and perfected in 1775. Though white-on-blue matte jasperware is the most familiar Wedgwood ceramic line, still in production today and widely imitated since the mid-19th century, white-on-black was also produced. Wedgwood made notable jasperware copies of the Portland Vase and the \"Marlborough gem\", a famous head of Antinous, and interpreted in jasperware casts from antique gems by James Tassie. John Flaxman's neoclassical designs for jasperware were carried out in the extremely low relief typical of cameo production. Some other porcelain imitated three-layer cameos purely by paint, even in implausible objects like a flat Sèvres tea-tray of 1840.\n\nGems were a favourite topic for antiquaries from the Renaissance onwards, culminating in the work of Philipp von Stosch, described above. Major progress in understanding Greek gems was made in the work of Adolf Furtwängler (1853–1907, father of the conductor, Wilhelm). Among recent scholars Sir John Boardman (b. 1927) has made a special contribution, again concentrating on Greek gems. Gertrud Seidmann (1919–2013) moved into the subject, having previously been a German teacher.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78772", "title": "Erato", "text": "Erato\n\nIn Greek mythology, Erato (; Ancient Greek: Ἐρατώ) is one of the Greek Muses. The name would mean \"desired\" or \"lovely\", if derived from the same root as Eros, as Apollonius of Rhodes playfully suggested in the invocation to Erato that begins Book III of his \"Argonautica\".\nErato is the Muse of love poetry. In the Orphic hymn to the Muses, it is Erato who charms the sight. Since the Renaissance she has mostly been shown with a wreath of myrtle and roses, holding a lyre, or a small kithara, a musical instrument often associated with Apollo. In Simon Vouet's representations, two turtle-doves are eating seeds at her feet. Other representations may show her holding a golden arrow, reminding one of the \"eros\", the feeling that she inspires in everybody, and at times she is accompanied by the god Eros, holding a torch.\n\nErato was named with the other muses in Hesiod's \"Theogony\". She was also invoked at the beginning of a lost poem, \"Rhadine\" (), that was referred to and briefly quoted by Strabo. The love story of Rhadine made her supposed tomb on the island of Samos a pilgrimage site for star-crossed lovers in the time of Pausanias and Erato was linked again with love in Plato's \"Phaedrus\"; nevertheless, even in the third century BC, when Apollonius wrote, the Muses were not yet as inextricably linked to specific types of poetry as they became.\n\nErato is also invoked at the start of book 7 of Virgil's \"Aeneid\", which marks the beginning of the second half or 'Iliadic' section of the poem: Calliope (epic), even Melpomene (tragedy) or Clio (history) might seem more appropriate. This choice may express Virgil's love for his native land, but in any case shows the need for a new creative force at this change in the direction of the poem.\n\n"}
{"id": "45389345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45389345", "title": "Futurist Painting: Technical Manifesto", "text": "Futurist Painting: Technical Manifesto\n\nThe Futurist Painting: Technical Manifesto (1910) by Umberto Boccioni (1882-1916) was the first exposition of the theoretical underpinnings of Italian Futurist painting.\n\nThe manifesto was first published as a leaflet in \"Poesia\", in Milan, 11 April 1910. Apart from Boccioni, it was signed by Carlo Carrà, Luigi Russolo, Giacomo Balla and Gino Severini, although they did not necessarily all contribute to the text. The translation most often used in English is from the \"Exhibition of Works by the Italian Futurist Painters\" at the Sackville Gallery in London, March 1912.\n\nThe manifesto built on the publication of the \"Manifesto of Futurism\" by Filippo Marinetti in \"Le Figaro\" in Paris in 1909 and Boccioni's \"Manifesto of the Futurist Painters\" published as a leaflet in \"Poesia\", 11 February 1910, neither of which had described in detail how Futurist ideas would be represented on the canvas.\n"}
{"id": "18352036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18352036", "title": "Gender Equality Duty in Scotland", "text": "Gender Equality Duty in Scotland\n\nThe Equality Act 2006 was complemented with specific duties later on. The general Equality Duty states that people should not be discriminated according to their age, race, gender, religion, disability and sexual orientation and required public bodies to take seriously threats of harassment or discrimination on the grounds of gender reassignment (\"i.e.\", anti-trans prejudice).\n\nIn 2007 the Gender Equality Duty was released demanding that public bodies promote equality of opportunity with a special focus on gender equality. Following this Duty requires acting by the rules posed by the Scottish Government. It is each public body’s duty to publish a gender equality scheme which is to be revised every three years. There also has to be an annual report on what actions were taken to achieve objectives outlined in the equality scheme. Objectives might be about how the authorities plan to abolish discrimination and harassment as well as the pay gap between men and women. But also many other factors play into the Gender Equality Duty. According to Equal Opportunities Commission women and men should also use their right on equality in relation to parental leave after child birth or adoption. Another important factor is that the Gender Equality Duty does not just apply to bigger companies. It also applies to public bodies as schools and to education in general.\n\nIt was replaced by a general equality duty under the Equality Act 2010.\n\nAccording to Equality Commission there are four different kinds of sexual discrimination:\n\nDirect discrimination:\n\nWhen one is directly discriminated it means that it is obvious to everybody that one is treated less favourably because of one’s sex.\n\nExample:\n\n\nHarassment:\n\nHarassment is a form of direct discrimination which aims at violating one’s dignity by talking to people in an overly suggestive manner or by touching. This causes an intimidating, degrading, humiliating and even hostile environment at work.\n\nExample:\n\n\nIndirect discrimination:\n\nIndirect discrimination occurs when the employer applies the same rules or criteria to men and women, but at the same time one sex is put at disadvantage as they cannot fulfill the requirements.\n\nExample:\n\n\nVictimisation:\n\nVictimisation is defined as treating a person less favourably because they have filed or want to file a complaint about having been harassed or discriminated against.\n\nThe Equal Pay Act 1970 demanded that men and women doing the same work get paid equally. With the Gender Equality Duty in 2007, it was stated that companies and public authorities have to publicly show \"how\" they want to improve the pay issue as a difference in payment shows gender discrimination. They are controlled regularly whether they achieved their objectives or not. Although the Equal Pay Act came into force almost several decades ago, there is still a pay gap of 15% between men and women doing the same work.\n\nAccording to the Close the Gap Project, there are several reasons for differences in pay; the first one being that jobs are segregated regarding to gender. So it is normal to press men and women into stereotypical male or female occupations. The majority of women (72%) are employed in public administration, education and health. Typical male jobs are handy work, mechanical work with the 89% of male employees working in the field of construction . It can also be seen that in high management position the percentage of men working there is higher than that of women working in similar positions. Another reason for the Pay Gap is the caring responsibility of women. As many workplaces lack flexible schedules women with caring responsibilities towards old or sick relatives, children or disabled people are more likely to look for part-time work which allows them to be more flexible. This can also be seen when having a closer look at the statistics. According to Esther Breitenbach and Fran Wasoff (A Gender Audit of Statistics: Comparing the Position of Women and Men in Scotland) about 55% of women work part-time as it is one of the work arrangements with flexible working hours, compared to only 22% of men who do use this work arrangement.\n\nIn Scotland women earn 12 per cent less per hour than men when full-time salaries are compared. Women working part-time earn 32 per cent less per hour than men working full-time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50280659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50280659", "title": "Genocide of Yazidis by ISIL", "text": "Genocide of Yazidis by ISIL\n\nThe Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL, calling itself Islamic State) is recognized by the United Nations as the perpetrator of a genocide of Yazidis in Iraq. The genocide has led to the expulsion, flight and effective exile of the Yazidis from their ancestral lands in Northern Iraq whose women and girls were forced into sexual enslavement by the Islamic State and whose men were killed by the thousands. The genocide led to the abduction of Yazidi women and massacres that killed thousands of Yazidi civilians during what has been called a \"forced conversion campaign\" being carried out in Northern Iraq by ISIL, starting in 2014.\n\nISIL's persecution of the Yazidis gained international attention and led to the American-led intervention in Iraq, which started with United States airstrikes against ISIL. Additionally, the US, UK, and Australia made emergency airdrops to Yazidis who had fled to a mountain range and provided weapons to the Kurdish Peshmerga who had a role in defending the Yazidis, together with PKK and YPG forces. ISIL's actions against the Yazidi population have resulted in approximately 500,000 refugees and several thousand killed and kidnapped. The Yazidis have also had their human rights violated by terrorist organizations who began killing the Yazidi. The effects of the genocide have impacted other communities of Yazidis, especially in Germany.\n\nThe Yazidis are monotheists who believe in a benevolent peacock angel and practice an ancient gnostic faith. The self-proclaimed Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant and other followers of Islam in the region tend to view the peacock angel as the malevolent creature Lucifer or Shaitan and they consider the Yazidis 'devil worshippers'.\n\nIn August 2014, more than 300 Yazidi families were threatened and forced to choose between conversion to Sunni Islam or death.\n\n\n\nOn 3 August 2014, ISIL militants attacked and took over Sinjar in northern Iraq, a Kurdish-controlled town that was predominantly inhabited by Yazidis, and the surrounding area.\n\nYazidis, and internet postings of ISIL, have reported summary executions that day by ISIL militants, leading to 200,000 civilians fleeing Sinjar, of whom around 50,000 Yazidis were reportedly escaping to the nearby Sinjar Mountains. They were trapped on Mount Sinjar, surrounded by ISIL militants and facing starvation and dehydration.\n\nOn 4 August 2014, Prince Tahseen Said, Emir of the Yazidi, issued a plea to world leaders calling for assistance on behalf of the Yazidi facing attack from ISIL.\n\nOn 3 August, ISIL killed the men from the al-Qahtaniya area, ten Yazidi families fleeing were attacked by ISIL; and ISIL shot 70 to 90 Yazidi men in Qiniyeh village.\n\nOn 4 August, ISIL fighters attacked Jabal Sinjar, killed 30 Yazidi men; 60 more Yazidi men were killed in the village of Hardan. On the same day, Yazidi community leaders stated that at least 200 Yazidis had been killed in Sinjar (see Sinjar massacre), and 60–70 near Ramadi Jabal.\nAccording to reports from surviving Yazidi, between 3 and 6 August, more than 50 Yazidi were killed near Dhola village, 100 in Khana Sor village, 250–300 in Hardan area, more than 200 on the road between Adnaniya and Jazeera, dozens near al-Shimal village, and on the road from Matu village to Jabal Sinjar.\n\nOn 10 August 2014, according to statements by the Iraqi government and others, ISIL militants buried alive an undefined number of Yazidi women and children in northern Iraq in an attack that killed 500 people, in what has been described as genocide.\nThose who escaped across the Tigris River into Kurdish-controlled areas of Syria on 10 August gave accounts of how they had seen individuals also attempting to flee who later died.\n\nOn 15 August, in the Yazidi village of Kojo, south of Sinjar, after the whole population had received the jihadist ultimatum to convert or be killed, over 80 men were killed.\nA witness recounted that the villagers were first converted under duress, but when the village elder refused to convert, all of the men were taken in trucks under the pretext of being led to Sinjar, and gunned down along the way.\nAccording to reports from survivors interviewed by OHCHR, on 15 August, the entire male population of the Yazidi village of Khocho, up to 400 men, were rounded up and shot by ISIL, and up to 1,000 women and children were abducted; on the same day, up to 200 Yazidi men were reportledy executed for refusing conversion in a Tal Afar prison.\n\nBetween 24 and 25 August 14 elderly Yazidi men were executed by ISIL in the Sheikh Mand Shrine, and the Jidala village Yazidi shrine was blown up. On 1 September, the Yazidi villages of Kotan, Hareko and Kharag Shafrsky were set afire by ISIL, and on 9 September, Peshmerga fighters discovered a mass grave containing the bodies of 14 executed civilians, presumably Yazidis.\n\nAccording to an OHRCR/UNAMI report on 26 September, by the end of August, 1,600–1,800 or more Yazidis who had been murdered, executed, or died from starvation.\nIn early October, Matthew Barber, a scholar of Yazidi history at the University of Chicago, estimated between 3,000–5,000 Yazidi men had been killed by ISIS.\n\nIn October 2014, a UN report revealed that ISIL had massacred 5,000 Yazidi men in northern Iraq in August 2014.\n\nIn May 2015, the Yazidi Progress Party released a statement in which they said that 300 Yazidi captives were killed on 1 May by ISIL in the Tal Afar, Iraq.\n\nA 2017 survey by the \"PLOS Medicine\" journal significantly decreased the number of Yazidis killed however concurrently raised the number abducted with 2,100 to 4,400 deaths and 4,200 to 10,800 abductions.\n\nIn several villages, local Sunnis were reported to have sided with ISIL, betraying Yazidis for slaughter once ISIL arrived, and even possibly colluding in advance with ISIL to lie to Yazidis, to lure them into staying put until the terrorists invaded; although there was also one report of Sunnis helping Yazidis to escape.\n\nOn 3 August, ISIL abducted women and children from the al-Qahtaniya area, and 450–500 abducted Yazidi women and girls were taken to Tal Afar; hundreds more to Si Basha Khidri and then Ba'aj. When ISIL fighters attacked Jabal Sinjar on 4 August, they abducted a number of women in the Yazidi village of Hardan, wives and daughters were abducted; other Yazidi women were abducted in other villages in the area. On 6 August, ISIL kidnapped 400 Yazidi women in Sinjar to sell them as sex slaves. According to reports from surviving Yazidi, between 3 and 6 August 500 Yazidi women and children were abducted from Ba'aj and more than 200 from Tal Banat. According to a statement by the Iraqi government on 10 August 2014, hundreds of women were taken as slaves in northern Iraq. On 15 August, in the Yazidi village of Kojo, south of Sinjar, over 100 women were abducted, though according to some reports from survivors, up to 1,000 women and children of the Yazidi village of Khocho were abducted. According to an OHRCR/UNAMI report on 26 September, by the end of August up to 2,500 Yazidis, mostly women and children, had been abducted.\nIn early October, Matthew Barber, a scholar of Yazidi history at the University of Chicago, compiled a list of names of 4,800 Yazidi women and children who had been captured (estimating the total number of abducted people to be possibly up to 7,000).\n\nThe abducted Yazidi women were sold into slave markets with ISIL \"using rape as a weapon of war\" according to CNN, with the group having gynaecologists ready to examine the captives. Yazidi women were physically observed, including examinations to see if they were \"virgins\" or if they were pregnant. Women who were found to be pregnant were taken by the ISIL gynaecologists and forced abortions were performed on them.\n\nHaleh Esfandiari from the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars highlighted the abuse of local women by ISIL militants after they have captured an area. \"They usually take the older women to a makeshift slave market and try to sell them. The younger girls ... are raped or married off to fighters\", she said, adding, \"It's based on temporary marriages, and once these fighters have had sex with these young girls, they just pass them on to other fighters.\"\n\nSpeaking of Yazidi women captured by ISIS, Nazand Begikhani said in October 2014, \"These women have been treated like cattle... They have been subjected to physical and sexual violence, including systematic rape and sex slavery. They've been exposed in markets in Mosul and in Raqqa, Syria, carrying price tags.\" Yazidi girls in Iraq allegedly raped by ISIL fighters have committed suicide by jumping to their death from Mount Sinjar, as described in a witness statement.\n\nA United Nations report issued on 2 October 2014, based on 500 interviews with witnesses, said that ISIL took 450–500 women and girls to Iraq's Nineveh region in August where \"150 unmarried girls and women, predominantly from the Yazidi and Christian communities, were reportedly transported to Syria, either to be enslaved to ISIL fighters as a 'reward' or to be sold as sex slaves\".\nAlso in October 2014, a UN report revealed that ISIL had detained 5,000 to 7,000 Yazidi women as slaves or forced brides in northern Iraq in August 2014.\n\nOn 4 November 2014, Dr. Widad Akrawi of Defend International said that \"the international community should define what's happening to the Yezidis as a crime against humanity, crime against cultural heritage of the region and ethnic cleansing,\" adding that Yazidi females are being \"subjected to as systematic gender-based violence and the use of slavery and rape as a weapon of war.\"\nA month earlier, President of Defend International dedicated her 2014 International Pfeffer Peace Award to the Yazidis, Christians and all residents of Kobane because, she said, facts on the ground demonstrate that these peaceful people are not safe in their enclaves, partly because of their ethnic origin and/or religion and they are therefore in urgent need for immediate attention from the global community. She asked the international community to make sure that the victims are not forgotten; they should be rescued, protected, fully assisted and compensated fairly.\n\nIn June 2017, reports from Vian Dakhil of the Iraqi parliament told of a captured sex slave being fed her own one-year-old child. The woman was starved for three days in a cellar and was finally given a meal by her captors. When finished, they said \"We cooked your one-year-old son that we took from you, and this is what you just ate\".\n\nOn 3 November 2014, the \"price list\" for Yazidi and Christian females issued by ISIL surfaced online, and Dr. Widad Akrawi and her team were the first to verify the authenticity of the document. On 4 November 2014, a translated version of the document was shared by Dr. Akrawi. On 4 August 2015, the same document was confirmed as genuine by a UN official.\n\nWriting in mid 2016, Lori Hinnant, Maya Alleruzzo and Balint Szlanko of the Associated Press report that ISIL has tightened \"its grip on the estimated 3,000 women and girls held as sex slaves\" even while it loses territory to Iraqi forces. ISIL sells the women on encrypted smart phone apps, \"primarily on Telegram and on Facebook\" and to a lesser degree on WhatsApp. In advertisements for the girls obtained by AP\n\nmany of the women and girls are dressed in finery, some in heavy makeup. All look directly at the camera, standing in front of overstuffed chairs or brocade curtains in what resembles a shabby hotel ballroom. Some are barely out of elementary school. Not one looks older than 30.\n\nAs Western-backed forces closed in on Raqqa in July 2017, reports from the wives of ISIL members shared on an Arabic program were released. One wife stated that on encrypted apps, \"They were sharing photos of the sex slaves with the best make-up and clothes, and asking $2,000 for this one, $3,000 for that one. A virgin cost $10,000\". They contested statements by former Yazidi captives, saying that \"the sex slaves were lavished with gifts including expensive lipstick and clothes\". Many wives were jealous of the Yazidi sex slaves, leaving their husbands and when they were provided aid by refugee services in the area, \"the wives of the jihadis showed little emotion over the atrocities committed in Syria\".\n\nIn November 2014 \"The New York Times\" reported on the accounts given by five who escaped ISIL of their captivity and abuse.\n\nAccording to Mirza Dinnayi, founder of the German-Iraqi aid organization Luftbrücke Irak, ISIL registers \"every slave, every person under their owner, and therefore if she escapes, every Daesh [ISIL] control or checkpoint, or security force - they know that this girl ... has escaped from this owner\".\nFor over a year after the girls were first enslaved, \"Arab and Kurdish smugglers managed to free an average of 134\" slaves a month. But by May 2016, an ISIL \"crackdown reduced those numbers to just 39 in the last six weeks, according to figures provided by the Kurdistan regional government\". ISIL fighters have been targeting and \"assassinating smugglers who rescue the captives\". At the same time the funds to buy the women out of slavery provided by the Kurdish regional government \"are drying up,\" as a result of the collapse in the price of oil and disputes with Iraq's central government over revenues.\n\nIn its digital magazine \"Dabiq\", ISIL explicitly claimed religious justification for enslaving Yazidi women.\n\nAccording to \"The Wall Street Journal\", ISIL appeals to apocalyptic beliefs and claims \"justification by a Hadith that they interpret as portraying the revival of slavery as a precursor to the end of the world\". In late 2014, ISIL released a pamphlet on the treatment of female slaves. \"The New York Times\" said in August 2015 that \"[t]he systematic rape of women and girls from the Yazidi religious minority has become deeply enmeshed in the organization and the radical theology of the Islamic State in the year since the group announced it was reviving slavery as an institution.\"\n\nThe ISIL offensive in the Sinjar area of northern Iraq, 3–4 August, caused 30,000–50,000 Yazidis to flee into the Sinjar Mountains (Jabal Sinjar) fearing they would be killed by ISIL. They had been threatened with death if they refused conversion to Islam. A UN representative said that \"a humanitarian tragedy is unfolding in Sinjar\".\n\nOn 3 and 4 August 14 or more Yazidi children and some elderly or people with disabilities died of hunger, dehydratation, and heat on Sinjar Mountains. By 6 August, according to reports from survivors, 200 Yazidi children while fleeing to Jabal Sinjar had died from thirst, starvation, heat and dehydratation.\n\nFifty thousand Yazidis, besieged by ISIL on Mount Sinjar, were able to escape after Kurdish People's Protection Units and PKK broke ISIL siege on the mountains. Majority of them were rescued by Kurdish PKK and YPG fighters. Multinational rescue operation involved dropping of supplies on the mountains and evacuation of some refugees by helicopters. During the rescue operation, on 12 August, an overloaded Iraqi Air Force helicopter crashed on Mount Sinjar, killing Iraqi Air Force Major General Majid Ahmed Saadi (the pilot) and injuring 20 people.\n\nOn 8 August, PKK was providing humanitarian aid and camps to more than 3,000 Yazidi refugees.\n\nBy 20 October, 2,000 Yazidis, mainly volunteer fighters, who had remained behind to protect the villages, but also civilians (700 families who had not yet escaped), were reported as still in the Sinjar area, and were forced by ISIL to abandon the last villages in their control, Dhoula and Bork, and retreat to the Sinjar Mountains.\n\nIn an article by \"The Washington Post\", it is stated that there is an estimated 7,000 Yazidis who had been forced to convert to \"the Islamic State group's harsh interpretation of Islam\". Yazidi boys were taken to Raqqa, Syria to be trained to fight for ISIL, with some being forced to fight as U.S.-led forces closed in on the group. \n\nFollowing ISIL's retreat from Iraqi and Kurdish forces in the region during late-2017 campaigns, both governments laid claim to the area. The Yazidi population, with only about 15% returning to Sinjar during the period, was caught in the political crossfire. Yazidi's returned to an abandoned town of crumbling buildings, leftover IEDs and the remains of those killed during the massacre.\n\nIn November 2017, a mass grave of about 70 people was uncovered and a month later in December, another mass grave was discovered holding about 90 victims.\n\nThe persecution of the Yazidi people has been viewed as qualifying as genocide by groups such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in a March 2015 report. The organization cited the numerous atrocities such as forced religious conversion and sexual slavery as being parts of an overall malicious campaign.\n\nOn 14 March 2016, the United States House of Representatives voted unanimously 393-0 that violent actions performed against Yazidis, Christians, Shia and other groups by ISIL were acts of genocide. Days later on 17 March 2016, United States Secretary of State John Kerry declared that the violence initiated by ISIL against the Yazidis and others amounted to genocide.\n\nMultiple individual human rights activists such as Nazand Begikhani and Dr. Widad Akrawi have also advocated for this view. The term itself first arose in 1944 as the creation of a Polish-Jewish lawyer named Raphael Lemkin, who himself defined the term as reflecting \"a coordinated plan of different actions aiming at the destruction of essential foundations of the life of national groups, with the aim of annihilating the groups themselves.\"\n\nIn January 2015, about 200 Yazidis were released by ISIL. Kurdish military officials believed they were released because they were a burden. On 8 April 2015, 216 Yazidis, with the majority being children and elderly, were released by ISIL after being held captive for about 8 months. Their release occurred following an offensive by U.S.-led air assaults and pressure from Iraqi ground forces who were pushing northward and in the process of retaking Tikrit. According to General Hiwa Abdullah, a peshmerga commander in Kirkuk, those released were in poor health with signs of abuse and neglect visible.\n\nIn March 2016, Iraqi security forces managed to free a group of Yazidi women held hostage by ISIL in a special operation behind ISILs lines in Mosul.\n\nIn March 2016, the militant group Kurdistan Workers' Party managed to free 51 Yazidis held hostages by ISIL in an operation called 'Operation Vengeance for Martyrs of Shilo' Three Kurdistan Workers' Party guerrillas died during the operation.\n\nIn April 2016, the Kurdistan Workers' Party with the Sinjar Resistance Units managed to free another 53 Yazidis held hostages by ISIL.\n\nOn 7 August 2014, U.S. President Barack Obama ordered targeted airstrikes on IS militants and emergency air relief for the Yazidis. Airstrikes began on 8 August. (See American-led intervention in Iraq (2014–present)#Obama authorizes airstrikes.)\n\nOn 8 August 2014, the US asserted that the systematic destruction of the Yazidi people by the Islamic State was genocide.\n\nPresident Barack Obama had authorized the attacks to protect Yazidis but also Americans and Iraqi minorities. President Obama gave an assurance that no troops would be deployed for combat. Along with the airstrikes of 9 August, the US airdropped 3,800 gallons of water and 16,128 MREs. Following these actions, the United Kingdom and France stated that they also would begin airdrops.\n\nOn 10 August 2014, at approximately 2:15 a.m. ET, the US carried out five additional airstrikes on armed vehicles and a mortar position, enabling 20,000–30,000 Yazidi Iraqis to flee into Syria and later be rescued by Kurdish forces. The Kurdish forces then provided shelter for the Yazidis in Dohuk.\n\nOn 13 August 2014, fewer than 20 United States Special Forces troops stationed in Irbil along with British Special Air Service troops visited the area near Mount Sinjar to gather intelligence and plan the evacuation of approximately 30,000 Yazidis still trapped on Mount Sinjar. One hundred and twenty-nine additional US military personnel were deployed to Irbil to assess and provide a report to President Obama. The United States Central Command also reported that a seventh airdrop was conducted and that to date, 114,000 meals and more than 35,000 gallons of water had been airdropped to the displaced Yazidis in the area.\n\nIn a statement on 14 August 2014, The Pentagon said that the 20 US personnel who had visited the previous day had concluded that a rescue operation was probably unnecessary since there was less danger from exposure or dehydration and the Yazidis were no longer believed to be at risk of attack from ISIL. Estimates also stated that 4,000 to 5,000 people remained on the mountain, with nearly half of which being Yazidi herders who lived there before the siege.\n\nKurdish officials and Yazidi refugees stated that thousands of young, elderly, and disabled individuals on the mountain were still vulnerable, with the governor of Kurdistan's Dahuk province, Farhad Atruchi, saying that the assessment was \"not correct\" and that although people were suffering, \"the international community is not moving\".\n\n\nThousands of Yazidis have taken refuge in neighboring Turkey, where they are being sheltered in refugee camps in the Turkish city of Silopi. The Turkish Disaster Relief Agency (AFAD) has begun preparations to set up camps for receiving 6,000 refugees from Iraq. The number of Yazidi refugees in Turkey had reached 14 thousand by 30 August.. However, Turkish forces have been backing the Jihadist of ISIL and displacing the Yazidi from their original villages to the city of Afrin. Furthermore, the controversy lingers after the 2014 attack on Mount Sinjar, the Turkish forces attacked the Yazidi tribe from above. Additionally, their aid was only given after many nations called out their actions that their slow movement.\n\nTurkish newspaper \"Today's Zaman\" claimed Turkey has also airdropped humanitarian aid to Yazidi refugees within Iraq, but Kurdish authorities didn't confirm humanitarian aid.\n\nIn August 2018, the Turkish led an Airstrike a man known as Zaki Shingali was the target who is considred to be a champion to the Yazidis. The Kurdistan Workers’ Party, maintains control of Sinjar mountains, the land of the Yazidis came to the aid of the Yazidi. The organization, also known as the P.K.K., established a security corridor that allowed civilians to flee the area of the massacre. However, the presence of the P.K.K has created a complicated dynamic, because they have continued to carry out airstrikes and take refugee in that area. Therefore, the Turkish aid is a complicated and is not always perceived as aid to the Yazidi people. \n\nArmenia became the first nation to recognise the crime against humanity perpetrated by ISIL. The UN recognized the genocide as ongoing, however, the international community still must recognize the detrimental effects of the genocide. While some countries may choose to overlook the idea of the genocide, the UN writes that the atrocities need to be understood and the international community needs to bring the killings to an end. Recently, the Security Council team has enforced the idea of a new accountability team that will collect evidence of the international crimes committed by the Islamic State. However, the international community has not been in full support of this idea, because it can sometimes oversee the crimes that other armed groups are involved in.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "147190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147190", "title": "Ground stone", "text": "Ground stone\n\nIn archaeology, ground stone is a category of stone tool formed by the grinding of a coarse-grained tool stone, either purposely or incidentally. Ground stone tools are usually made of basalt, rhyolite, granite, or other cryptocrystalline and igneous stones whose coarse structure makes them ideal for grinding other materials, including plants and other stones.\n\nThe adoption of ground stone technology is associated closely with the Neolithic, also called the New Stone Age. The Stone Age comes from the three-age system developed by Christian Jürgensen Thomsen. In the Levant ground stones appear in Mesolithic 2 (Natufian). In prehistoric Japan, ground stone tools appear during the Japanese Paleolithic, possibly predating adoption elsewhere in the Neolithic by 25,000 years.\n\nGround stones were created and used for a wide variety of reasons. Each use resulted in a different development and process by which a person created their ground stone. For example, the process for creating the head of a hammer is different from the process used to create a detailed decoration piece for one’s home. That being said, there are some processes that are basic to most ground stone making.\nWhen choosing what type of stone to use for a ground stone tool, toughness is the most important factor. If the stone is not tough enough to withstand hard hits and instead just flakes and cracks easily, the work done to create the tool has gone to waste. A stone that will not shear, flake, or crack when tested against large impacts is the most important aspect when choosing what kind of stone to use. Examples of this kind of stone include limestone, sandstone, granite, basalt, rhyolite and other igneous and cryptocrystalline rocks.\n\nCryptocrystalline rocks are good to use for ground stones because they have a very fine grain structure. This is helpful because the smaller the grains are in a rock, the harder the rock is.\n\nHoles could be ground out of stones with the use of sharp pointed stones or hardened sticks. By spinning the ground stone with one's hands and applying substantial pressure to the sharp point into the ground stone, a hole could be drilled into the stone with a large amount of time and effort. Sand would be used to help quicken the process by putting it in the partially formed hole as the sharp point was being pressed. The sand would help grind more of the stone away. To put a hole all the way through a piece of stone, it would be first drilled half way in one direction and be finished on the opposite side.\n\nSome ground stone tools are incidental, caused by use with other tools: manos, for example, are hand stones used in conjunction with metates and other grinding slabs (querns), and develop their ground surfaces through wear. Other ground stone tools include adzes, celts, and axes, which are manufactured using a labor-intensive, time-consuming method of repeated grinding against a harder stone or with sand, often using water as a lubricant. These tools are often made using durable finer-grained materials rather than coarse materials. In the North American arctic, tools made of ground slate were used by the Norton, Dorset, and Thule tool cultures, among others. Common forms of these tools were projectile points and ulus. These tools were often purpose-made by creating a blank, either by chipping or using a technique where the slate was sawed partway through on one or both sides and then snapped into a blank, then finished by grinding with abraders or whetstones.\n\nWhen making the head of an axe out of stone, the piece would be made so it could be hafted. In order to have the stone hafted onto a larger piece, like wood or bone, the ground stone may have at least two notches ground out of one side of the stone, making grooves for the hafting material to lie inside. These grooves would ensure that the stone would not move when struck with a large force. Tough hide would then be wound around the handle and inside the grooves, binding the ground stone and the handle together.\n\nGround stones were often used as dinner-ware. Using large stones, lithic reduction would be done for long periods of time to create bowls and pots for food. Jewelry, beads, ear spools and other decorative ground stones were a sign of high status due to the time and effort needed to make pieces of such small size and detail.\n\nWhen mashing up seeds and leaves into powders, rounded and smooth ground stones would be used inside a stone bowl. This pair of tools is called a mortar and pestle. The material would be placed into the mortar and the pestle would be moved and pressed into the mortar to grind the material into a fine powder. This process could be used for medicine and cooking. Mortar and pestle is still used today for many cooking recipes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "366653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366653", "title": "Hanna Holborn Gray", "text": "Hanna Holborn Gray\n\nHanna Holborn Gray (born October 25, 1930) is an American historian of Renaissance and Reformation political thought and Professor of History \"Emerita\" at the University of Chicago. She served as president of the University of Chicago, from 1978 to 1993, having earlier served as acting president of Yale University in 1977-78. At both schools, she was the first woman to hold their highest executive office. When named to the post in Chicago, she became the first woman in the United States to hold the full presidency of a major university.\n\nHanna Holborn was born in Heidelberg, Germany, the daughter of Hajo Holborn, a professor of European history at Yale who fled to America from Nazi Germany, and Annemarie Bettmann, a philologist. Her older brother, Frederick, became a White House aide and professor of foreign policy at Johns Hopkins' School of Advanced International Studies. She attended The Foote School in New Haven, CT (graduated '43), Sidwell Friends School in Washington D.C, then Bryn Mawr College in suburban Philadelphia, where she graduated in 1950. Holborn traveled to Oxford as a Fulbright Scholar. She met and married Charles Montgomery Gray in 1954 while both were graduate students at Harvard University, earned a Ph.D. from Harvard in 1957, and taught there, becoming an assistant professor in 1959.\n\nShe moved to Chicago when her husband was appointed to a position at the University of Chicago. She began teaching history there and earned tenure in 1964. From 1966 to 1970, she was co-editor of the \"Journal of Modern History\" with her husband.\n\nGray rose to prominence as an administrator after she was appointed to a committee to investigate whether a sociology professor had been denied tenure because of her gender and political sympathies.\n\nGray was named dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at Northwestern University in 1972 and became professor of history and provost at Yale University in 1974. She served as acting president of Yale for fourteen months after President Kingman Brewster unexpectedly accepted an appointment as United States Ambassador to the Court of St. James's.\n\nGray then returned to the University of Chicago, serving as president from 1978 to 1993, the first female (full) president of a major university in the United States.\n\nShe retired in June 1993 but remains Harry Pratt Judson Distinguished Service Professor \"Emerita\", continuing to offer advanced undergraduate and graduate courses in history. Her husband died in April 2011.\n\nGray has also served as a director, board member or trustee of many institutions, including the Harvard Corporation, the Yale Corporation, the Smithsonian Institution, JP Morgan Chase, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Marlboro School of Music, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Concord Coalition, the Mayo Clinic, the Brookings Institution, and Bryn Mawr College.\n\nGray has received honorary degrees from more than sixty institutions, including the University of Chicago, The College of William and Mary, Harvard, Oxford, Yale, Brown, Columbia, Princeton, and Duke.\n\nShe served as chairman of the board of the second largest foundation in America, the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, until 2010.\n\nThe portrait of Hanna Gray that hangs at the University of Chicago has been stolen on more than one occasion as a prank.\n\nGray published a memoir \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1560737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560737", "title": "Hawai'i Sign Language", "text": "Hawai'i Sign Language\n\nHawaiʻi Sign Language (HSL), also known as Old Hawaiʻi Sign Language and Pidgin Sign Language (PSL), is an indigenous sign language used in Hawaiʻi. Although historical records document its presence on the islands as early as the 1820s, it was not formally recognized until 2013 by linguists at the University of Hawai'i. It is the first new language to be uncovered within the United States since the 1930s. Linguistic experts believe HSL may be the last undiscovered language in the country.\n\nAlthough previously believed to be related to American Sign Language (ASL), the two languages are in fact unrelated. The initial research team interviewed 19 Deaf people and two children of Deaf parents on four islands. It was found that eighty percent of HSL vocabulary is different than American Sign Language, proving that HSL is an independent language. Additionally, there is a HSL-ASL creole, Creole Hawai'i Sign Language (CHSL) which is used by approximately 40 individuals in the generations between those who signed HSL exclusively and those who sign ASL exclusively. However, since the 1940s ASL has almost fully replaced the use of HSL on the islands of Hawai'i and CHSL is likely to also be lost in the next 50 years.\n\nPrior to the recognition of HSL as a distinct language in 2013, it was an undocumented language. HSL is at risk of extinction due to its low number of signers and the adoption of ASL. With fewer than 30 signers remaining worldwide, HSL is considered critically endangered. Without documentation and revitalization efforts, such as the ongoing efforts initiated by Dr. James Woodward, Dr. Barbara Earth, and Linda Lambrecht, this language may become dormant or extinct.\n\nHSL was recognized by linguists on March 1, 2013 by a research group from the University of Hawai'i at Manoa. The research team found a letter from Reverend Hiram Bingham to Reverend Thomas H. Gallaudet from Feb. 23, 1821. The letter described several instances of Deaf natives communicating to Bingham in their own sign language. At the time of discovery, the language was used by around 40 people, mostly over 80-years-old. \nHSL is not itself a pidgin, but alternate names for the language are documented as Hawai'i Pidgin Sign Language or Pidgin Sign Language. This is due to to an inaccurate historical association with the spoken language Hawaiʻi Pidgin. Linguists who have begun to document the language and community members prefer the name \"Hawaiʻi Sign Language\", and that is the name used for it in ISO 639-3 as of 2014.\n\nVillage sign use, by both d/Deaf and hearing, is attested from 1820. There's the possibility of influence from immigrant sign later that century, though HSL has little in common today with ASL or other signed and spoken languages it has come in contact with. The establishment of a school for the deaf in 1914 strengthened the use of sign, primarily HSL, among the students. A Deaf community hero, a Chinese-Hawai'ian Deaf man named Edwin Inn, taught HSL to other d/Deaf adults and also stood as president of a Deaf club. However, the introduction of ASL in 1941 in place of purely oral instruction resulted in a shift from HSL.\n\nHSL shares few lexical and grammatical components with ASL. While HSL follows subject, object, verb (SOV) typology, ASL follows subject, verb, object (SVO) typology. HSL does not have verbal classifiers- these were previously thought to be universal in sign languages, and ASL makes extensive use of these. HSL also has several entirely non-manual lexical items, including verbs and nouns, which are not typical in ASL. Ongoing investigation of these languages suggest that they are not related.\n\nAn estimated 15,857 of the total 833,610 residents of Hawai'i (about 1.9%) are audiologically deaf. Among this population, ASL is now significantly more common than HSL. There are a handful of services available to help d/Deaf Hawai'ian residents learn ASL and also for those who wish to learn ASL to become interpreters, such as the Aloha State Association of the Deaf and the American Sign Language Interpreter Education Program. Equivalent services for HSL are nearly non-existent, partially because some members of the Deaf community in Hawai'i have felt that it is not worth preservation.\n\nLinda Lambrecht, Dr. James Woodward and Barbara Clark are continually working with a team to document and preserve the language. Another research member, Dr. Samantha Rarrick, is part of the Sign Language Documentation Training Center at the University of Hawai'i. This group has two goals. Their first goal to teach graduate students and other linguists how to document HSL and other small sign languages used in Hawai'i. Their second goal is to have 20-hours of translated-HSL on video. As of Nov. 22, 2016, a dictionary and video archive of speakers have been created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23416020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23416020", "title": "Ice Age (franchise)", "text": "Ice Age (franchise)\n\nIce Age is an American media franchise centering on a group of mammals surviving the Paleolithic ice age. It is produced by Blue Sky Studios, a division of 20th Century Fox, and featuring the voices of Ray Romano, John Leguizamo, Denis Leary, and Chris Wedge. Five films have been released in the series thus far with \"Ice Age\" in 2002, \"\" in 2006, \"\" in 2009, \"\" in 2012, and \"\" in 2016. It has received some criticism for making no attempt to be scientifically accurate. As of April 2016, the franchise had generated $6 billion in revenue, making it one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time.\n\nSid, a talkative sloth, is left behind by his family and the herds of mammals journeying to the south. He meets Manny, a mammoth who travels to the north, and decides to follow him. When a humans' camp is attacked by tigers, a woman takes her baby and jumps into a river and falls over a waterfall. Before she disappears, the baby is rescued by Manny and Sid. The two animals decide to search for the father and return the baby to him. Diego, one of the tigers that attacked the humans, comes also claiming the baby, and the trio form an uneasy alliance during their journey to the humans.\n\nManny, Sid, and Diego are currently living in a large valley surrounded by an enormously high ice wall on all sides. However, the trio discovers that the ice wall is actually a wall that is barely holding a massive body of water that could flood the valley to nearly a mile underwater. A vulture tells them that there is a boat at the other end of the valley that may save them all, but they only have three days to reach it or die. Manny is also having trouble fearing the fact that he may be the last mammoth left. Along the way, they meet Ellie, a mammoth who thinks she is a possum, and her possum brothers Crash and Eddie. As they begin to travel together, Manny learns, with help from Diego and Sid, that he must move on from his past. During their journey, Scrat the sabre-toothed squirrel has his own adventure.\n\nManny and Ellie are expecting their first child, meanwhile Scrat falls in love with fellow squirrel Scratte. Meanwhile, Diego is anxious about settling down for a domestic life with Manny's new family. Sid begins to wish for a family of his own, and steals some dinosaur eggs which leads to Sid ending up in a strange underground world where his herd must rescue him. The herd also meets an insane one-eyed weasel known as Buck who aids them on their quest.\n\nTaking place several years after the events of the third film, with Peaches now a teenager, Scrat's pursuit of acorns has world-changing consequences, separating Manny, Sid and Diego from the rest of their group. As they try to return home, they come into conflict with a pirate gang led by Captain Gutt.\n\nSet after the events of \"\", Scrat's pursuit of his elusive acorn catapults him outside of Earth aboard a UFO, where he accidentally sets off a series of cosmic events that transform and threaten the planet. To save themselves from peril, Manny, Sid, Diego, and the rest of the herd leave their home and reunite with Buck, who leads them on a journey to find a way to save the planet.\n\nOn the possibility of a potential sequel to \"\", in June 2016, Galen T. Chu, co-director of the film, stated that there were some ideas for the next installment. In July 2016, Bustle noted that the potential of \"Ice Age 6\" actually being produced was relatively high even though it could largely depend on the box office performance of the fifth film. PopWrapped later commented in February 2017, on the fifth film's poor reception and how the franchise was moving further into absurdity and further away from leaving any lasting emotional impact on the audience, and stated that the sixth film could have potential to redeem the franchise by going back to its roots and reintroducing the humans from the original film, particularly the little baby named Roshan, and thereby bring the audience to remember why they loved \"Ice Age\" so much in the first place, and perhaps end the series on a high note.\n\n\"Gone Nutty\" is a 2002 animated short film, directed by Carlos Saldanha, and originally released on the \"Ice Age\" DVD. The short features the character Scrat, who is yet again having troubles with collecting his beloved acorns. The film was nominated for the 2003 Academy Award for Animated Short Film.\n\n\"No Time for Nuts\" is a 2006 animated short film, directed by Chris Renaud and Mike Thurmeier, and it was originally released on the \"Ice Age: The Meltdown\" DVD. The short follows Scrat on a chase after his nut, which has been accidentally sent back in time by a frozen time machine. \"No Time for Nuts\" was nominated for the 2007 Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film.\n\n\"Surviving Sid\" is a 2008 animated short film, directed by Galen Tan Chu and Karen Disher. It was originally released on the \"Horton Hears a Who!\" DVD and Blu-ray. Unlike the first two \"Ice Age\" short films, \"Surviving Sid\" focuses on Sid, who incompetently \"leads\" a small group of camping children.\n\n\"Scrat's Continental Crack-Up\" is the first of a 2012 two-part animated short.\n\n\"Scrat's Continental Crack-Up: Part 2\" is the second of a 2012 two-part animated short.\n\n\"Cosmic Scrat-tastrophe\" is a 2015 animated short film. The short once again follows Scrat, who discovers a flying saucer frozen in a block of ice and accidentally powers it on and ends up creating the Solar System through a series of mishaps.\n\n\"Scrat: Spaced Out\" is a 2016 animated short film. The short once again follows Scrat, trying to get back to Earth after the events in \"Cosmic Scrat-tastrophe\".\n\nIn the middle of decorating for the holiday season, Sid accidentally destroys Manny's favourite decorations. Sid, convinced by Manny that he is now on Santa's naughty list, takes off with Crash, Eddie and Peaches for the North Pole to get back on the Santa's good side. When on the North Pole, Sid and his crew accidentally destroy Santa's Workshop. When Manny, Ellie and Diego, worried over Peaches's safety, arrive at the North Pole, they must come together and save Christmas.\n\nThe special centers on a harried prehistoric bird mom who entrusts her precious, soon-to-hatch egg to Sid. When she recommends him to her neighbors—a condor mother, Cholly Bear and Gladys Glypto—business booms at his new egg-sitting service.\n\nHowever, dastardly pirate bunny Squint, who is seeking revenge on the herd, steals, camouflages and hides all the eggs. Once again, with Squint’s twin brother, Clint, assisting, Manny, Diego and the rest of the gang come to the rescue and take off on a daring mission that turns into the world’s first Easter egg hunt.\n\nCEO of 20th Century Fox Stacey Snider announced that a television series based on \"Ice Age\" is currently being developed. With the upcoming acquisition by Disney, it is possible that it will appear on one of their platforms.\n\nAll five films, produced on a total budget of $429 million, have grossed over $3.2 billion worldwide, making \"Ice Age\" the 18th highest-grossing franchise of all time, and the third highest-grossing animated franchise worldwide behind \"Despicable Me\" and \"Shrek\". The first four films were the highest-grossing animated films in each year they were released, and among the eight highest-grossing films in their respective release years.\n\n\n\"Ice Age Live! A Mammoth Adventure\" is a live arena ice show that combines ice skating, aerial arts, puppetry and film, and tells a new story based on the first three \"Ice Age\" films. The plot begins with baby mammoth Peaches being kidnapped by an evil hawk-like creature called Shadow. Her father Manny sets off to rescue Peaches, accompanied by Sid and Diego. Their mission is successful, but on the way home they encounter avalanches and rockfalls, diverting them into a fantasy underground kingdom.\n\nIt is being produced by Stage Entertainment Touring Productions, and directed by Guy Caron and Michael Curry. The music and lyrics were written by Ella Louise Allaire and Martin Lord Ferguson. With the preview shows from October 19 to 21, 2012, in Cardiff, and from October 25 to 28, 2012, in Nottingham, \"A Mammoth Adventure\" officially premiered on November 2, 2012, during its three-day tour from November 1 to 3 at Wembley Arena in London. It continued in Germany in November 2012, with a plan to visit more than 30 countries in its five-year worldwide tour. In August 2016, \"Ice Age Live! A Mammoth Adventure\" concluded its world tour and was replaced in North America by \"Ice Age On Ice\".\n\n\"Ice Age\" inspired rides and attractions will be featured at the first 20th Century Fox theme park, called 20th Century Fox World, to open in 2017 as part of Malaysia-based Resorts World Genting.\n"}
{"id": "273204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273204", "title": "Index of real estate articles", "text": "Index of real estate articles\n\nThis aims to be a complete list of the articles on real estate.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9818776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9818776", "title": "Indian Institute", "text": "Indian Institute\n\nThe Indian Institute in central Oxford, England, is at the north end of Catte Street on the corner with Holywell Street and facing down Broad Street from the east. Sir Monier Monier-Williams started the Institute in the University of Oxford in 1883 to provide training for the Indian Civil Service of the British Raj.\n\nIn June 1881, plans were submitted to the University of Oxford's Hebdomadal Council to build an Indian Institute. The original site was occupied by four old buildings. The building was designed by Basil Champneys and the first section opened in 1884. Originally there was a low shop to the south, but neighbouring Hertford College has now encroached on the Institute with a much taller building. The Institute was built of Taynton stone in the style of the English Renaissance, with different oriental details to the designs of Champneys. In 1974 Nikolaus Pevsner observed that the rounded corner cupola made an excellent \"point de vue\" at the east end of Broad Street.\n\nAlong with the library \"(see below)\", the institute contained lecture rooms and a museum. Some contents of the museum are now present in the Ashmolean and Pitt Rivers Museums. The original Indian Institute building is now the Oxford Martin School of the University of Oxford, the History Faculty having moved to the old City of Oxford School building on George Street and its library to the Bodleian site.\n\nThe Indian Institute Library opened in 1886. It became a dependent library of the Bodleian Library, the main library of the University, in 1927. It specialises in the history and culture of South Asia, especially the Himalayas and Tibet. The library was formerly located in the Indian Institute building, but was moved to the top floor of the New Bodleian Library.\n\nThe Museum was an integral part of Monier-Williams’ design, modelled to some extent on the India Museum in South Kensington. Monier-Williams acquired some pieces during his fund-raising and collecting tour of India in 1883-1884, including from the International Exhibition, at Calcutta, and arranged for regional representatives to send objects to Oxford. Babu T.N. Mukharji was commissioned to catalogue the collections in 1886 (never finished). The installation of the museum was done by Dr Heinrich Lüders, assisted by Mr. Long of the Pitt Rivers Museum, and completed in 1898. When Monier-Williams died in 1899, no financial provision had been made for running the museum. Gradually, the collections were dispersed: entomological and zoological collections to the University Museum; and many pieces to the Pitt Rivers Museum and the Ashmolean Museum. A summary catalogue of the museum was prepared by Mr A. Rost (for a short handbook to the Institute, by Prof Arthur Macdonell, 1922, but never published).\n\nThe building was financed entirely by private donors in India and Britain, for the sole purpose of constructing an edifice to house study for and on the Indian sub-continent. There was consequently great controversy in 1968, when the University's governing council evicted the Indian Institute from the premises without compensation, and then made a gift of the premises to the History Faculty, which specialises in European history to the exclusion of Indian history. The government of India filed a formal protest on behalf of the families of the original donors, who felt defrauded by the University's actions. The Oxford University Student Union went further still, accusing the University administration of racism in the decision.\n\nThe aim of the Indian Institute was:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26337113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26337113", "title": "Ivory pomegranate", "text": "Ivory pomegranate\n\nThe Ivory Pomegranate is a thumb-sized semitic ornamental artifact acquired by the Israel Museum. It is not actually made of ivory, but of hippopotamus bone and bears an inscription; \"Holy (Sacred) to the Priest of the House of God (YHWH)\".\n\nAt the time of its discovery, it was thought to have adorned the High Priest's sceptre within the Holy of Holies, thus potentially proving the existence of Solomon's Temple.\nThe Ivory Pomegranate is a small ornamental bone object engraved with a short inscription in paleo-Hebrew. The inscription is inscribed in circular fashion along the shoulders of the pomegranate which is the shape of the fruit in blossom stage. A significant part of the body of the pomegranate is broken including two breaks to the long petals of the fruit.\n\nThere is a vertical break on the body that cuts through the inscription, so that three letters are fragmentary and nine complete. Two areas of this fracture are lighter shades and considered to be new breaks on top of the ancient break. While it is still priceless as a Semitic artifact from 13th Century BCE, its connection to the Holy of Holies has been greatly disputed by Israeli and Italian archeologists specializing in Roman and Semitic artifacts as forgery. \n\nThe pomegranate was popular as a cultic object and was not unique to the worship of Yahweh. Archaeologist Aharon Kempinski has argued that, even if the inscription is authentic, the chance of it belonging to Solomon's Temple is extremely small as its origin is unknown and there were many \"houses of Yahweh\" outside Jerusalem, many of which \"have not yet been excavated but are constantly ransacked by [illegal] treasure seekers\". Baruch Halpern has suggested another interpretation of the inscription.\n\nThe word \"house\" can also mean, literally, a house where a family lived. The missing letters could read \"(Ahijah)\" \"[hyja]H\". At least three of the Biblical \"Ahijahs\" were priests and the inscription may be a reference to a priestly family rather than a deity. Halpern also notes that the unusual syntax of the inscription makes this interpretation philologically possible.\n\nThe thumb-sized ivory pomegranate measuring in height, bears an ancient Hebrew inscription that reads, depending on the point chosen as the beginning in the circular inscription, \"Belonging to the Temple [literally 'house'] of ---h, holy to the priests\" or \"Sacred donation for the priests of [or 'in'] the Temple [literally 'house'] of ---h\". It was once believed by some scholars to have adorned a sceptre used by the high priest in Solomon's Temple. Its origin is unknown as it appeared on the antiquities market anonymously in 1979 and was smuggled out of Israel and sold to an anonymous collector in France. Based on authentication by Israel’s then leading epigrapher, Professor Nahman Avigad of Hebrew University, the Israel Museum in Jerusalem purchased it from the collector for the sum of $550,000 in 1988. It was considered the most important item of biblical antiquities in the Israel Museum’s collection.\n\nIn 2004, the Investigative Committee of Israel alleged it was a part of an antiquities fraud and was involved with other suspected archaeological forgeries such as the Jehoash Inscription. This resulted in a major investigation by the committee which determined that the artifact dated back to the 14th or 13th century B.C. and that the inscription was a modern forgery. Professor Aaron Demsky claims that there is an 80 percent certainty that the inscription is a forgery.\n\nIn 2004, Israeli police filed criminal indictments against Oded Golan, accusing him of forging biblical artifacts. This was the first time a criminal court had been asked to rule in a case of antiquities forgery. On March 14, 2012 Golan was acquitted of all charges of forgery after the judge found that police had failed to prove forgery beyond all reasonable doubt. Although the indictment alleged that the pomegranate inscription was a forgery, as it was not included in the individual counts the judge did not consider its authenticity in his findings. Judge Aharon Farkash stated that the acquittal did not mean that the objects were \"true and authentic\".\n\nIn May 2007, three members of the original investigative committee re-examined the inscription to evaluate the counter-arguments of André Lemaire), who was invited to join them. Shmuel Ahituv, Aaron Demsky and Yuval Goren, while changing their minds on a few points, maintained that the inscription was a forgery, while Lemaire maintained that it was authentic.\n\nIn late 2008, Prof. Yitzhak Roman wrote that the inscription shows no signs of being a forgery. The two main points were that, first, the existing letters are in fact truncated by an ancient crack (contradicting the 2004 analysis), and second, that the patina inside the letters was not glued in place but natural.\n\n"}
{"id": "2150953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2150953", "title": "Kathmandu Valley", "text": "Kathmandu Valley\n\nThe Kathmandu Valley (, Nepal Bhasa: स्वनिगः, नेपाः गाः), historically known as Nepal Valley or Nepa Valley, lies at the crossroads of ancient civilizations of the Indian subcontinent and the broader Asian continent, and has at least 130 important monuments, including several pilgrimage sites for Hindus and Buddhists. There are seven World Heritage Sites within the valley.\n\nHistorically, the valley and adjoining areas made up a confederation known as the Nepal Mandala. Until the 15th century, Bhaktapur was its capital, when two other capitals, Kathmandu and Lalitpur (Patan), were established. After the annexation of the valley by the Gorkha Kingdom, and subsequent conversion of the Valley as the capital of their empire, the designation of \"Nepal\" was extended to all the lands they had conquered.\n\nThe Kathmandu Valley is the most developed and populated place in Nepal. The majority of offices and headquarters are located in the valley, making it the economic hub of Nepal. It is popular with tourists for its unique architecture, and rich culture that includes the highest number of jatras (street festivals) in Nepal. The valley itself was referred to as \"Nepal Proper\" by British historians.\n\nIn 2015, Kathmandu Valley was hit by the April 2015 Nepal earthquake. The earthquake caused thousands of deaths and destruction of many infrastructures across the Kathmandu Valley, which includes the towns of Lalitpur, Kirtipur, Madhyapur Thimi, Bhaktapur making the total population to roughly five million people and the municipalities across Kathmandu valley. Kathmandu is also the largest metropolis in the Himalayan hill region.\n\n\"Kathmandu\" is not the native name used by the indigenous Nepa people of the valley. The term \"Nepa-al\" means \"land of the Nepa people\" and was traditionally used to refer this valley.\n\nThe Pahari name \"Kathmandu\" comes from a structure in Durbar Square called by the Sanskrit name \"Kāsṣtha mandapa\" \"Wooden shelter\". It was destroyed in the 2015 earthquake. This unique temple, also known as the \"Maru Sattal\", was built in 1596 by King Lakshminarasimha Malla. The entire structure contained no iron nails or supports and was made entirely from wood. Legend has it that the timber used for this two-story pagoda was obtained from a single tree.\n\nCity of Banepa, Panauti and Dhulikhel is also considered part of Kathmandu valley as it has a similar culture.\n\nThe Kathmandu Valley may have been inhabited as early as 300 BCE, since the oldest known objects in the valley date to a few hundred years BCE. The earliest known inscription is dated 185 CE. The oldest firmly dated building in the earthquake-prone valley is over 2,000 years old. Four stupas around the city of Patan that are said to have been erected by a Charumati, a purported daughter of the Maurya emperor Ashoka, in the third century BCE, attest to the ancient history present within the valley. As with the tales of the Buddha's visit, there is no evidence supporting Ashok's visit, but the stupas probably date to that century. The Licchavis, whose earliest inscriptions date to 464, were the next rulers of the valley and had close ties with the Gupta Empire of India. The Mallas ruled the Kathmandu Valley and the surrounding area from the 12th until the 18th century CE, when the Shah dynasty of the Gorkha Kingdom under Prithvi Narayan Shah conquered the valley as he created present-day Nepal. His victory in the Battle of Kirtipur was the beginning of his conquest of the valley.\nThe Newars are the indigenous inhabitants and the creators of the historic civilization of the valley. Their language is today known as Nepal Bhasa. They are understood to be the descendants of the various ethnic and racial groups that have inhabited and ruled the valley in the two-millennium history of the place. Scholars have also described the Newars as a nation. They have developed a division of labour and a sophisticated urban civilization not seen elsewhere in the Himalayan foothills. They are known for their contributions to art, sculpture, architecture, culture, literature, music, industry, trade, agriculture and cuisine, and left their mark on the art of Central Asia.\n\nNewa architecture consists of the pagoda, stupa, shikhara, chaitya and other styles. The valley's trademark is the multiple-roofed pagoda which may have originated in this area and spread to India, China, Indochina and Japan. The most famous artisan who influenced stylistic developments in China and Tibet was Araniko, a Newar who traveled to the court of Kublai Khan in the 13th century AD. He is known for building the white stupa at the Miaoying Temple in Beijing. At present, people from other parts of Nepal tend to migrate to the valley for a better life due to its high level of cultural and economic development. Even with urbanization taking pace, the Newars have sustained their culture in Kathmandu Valley.\n\nAccording to Swayambhu Puran, the Kathmandu Valley was once a lake, deemed by scientists as Paleo Kathmandu Lake. The hill where the Swayambu Stupa rests had lotus plants with flowers in bloom. One story says that the God Manjusri cut a gorge at a valley called Kashapaal (later called Chobhar) with a sword called Chandrahrasha and drained away the waters in order to establish a habitable land.\n\nAccording to Gopal Banshawali, Krishna cut the gorge with his Sudarshana Chakra to let the water out. He then handed the drained valley to the Gopal Vansi people, who were nomadic cow herders.\n\nKathmandu valley is bowl-shaped. Its central lower part stands at above sea level. Kathmandu valley is surrounded by four mountain ranges: Shivapuri (at an elevation of ), Phulchowki (), Nagarjun () and Chandragiri (). The major river flowing through the Kathmandu Valley is the Bagmati.\n\nThe valley is made up of the Kathmandu District, Lalitpur District and Bhaktapur District covering an area of . The valley consists of the municipal areas of Kathmandu, Patan, Bhaktapur, Kirtipur and Madhyapur Thimi; the remaining area is made up of a number of municipalities and rural municipalities (in Lalitpur district). The valley is a cultural and political hub of Nepal. The Kathmandu valley was accorded the status of a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in the year 1979.\n\nThis is an incomplete alphabetical list of notable temples and monuments in Kathmandu Valley. Seven of these are designated as UNESCO World Heritage Sites.\n\n\n\nThis valley hosts a UNESCO World Heritage Site with seven preserved locations: the centers of the three primary cities, Kathmandu Hanuman Dhoka, Patan Durbar Square and Bhaktapur Durbar Square, the two most important Buddhist stupas, Swayambhunath and Boudhanath and two famous Hindu shrines, Pashupatinath temple and Changu Narayan. In 2003, UNESCO listed the sites as being \"endangered\" out of concern for the ongoing loss of authenticity and the outstanding universal value of the cultural property. The endangered status was lifted in 2007.\n\nIn the past, Tibetan Buddhist Masters including Marpa, Milarepa, Rwa Lotsava, Ras Chungpa, Dharma Swami, XIII Karmapa, XVI Karmapa and several others visited and travelled in the Kathmandu Valley. However, the largest group of Tibetans came in the 1960s. Many settled around the Swayambhunath and Boudhanath Stupas. Many other famous Lamas known throughout the world have their Buddhist monasteries and centers in the Kathmandu Valley.\n\nThe 1500-year history of funerary architecture in the valley provides some of the finest examples of stone architecture found in the subcontinent. A \"caitya\" is placed in almost all courtyards in cities like Patan. Stone inscriptions in the Kathmandu Valley are important sources for the history of Nepal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43422702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43422702", "title": "La Mar", "text": "La Mar\n\nLa Mar, also known by its Maya name Rabbit Stone, is the modern name for a ruined city of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization located in the state of Chiapas in Mexico. During the 8th century AD, it was an ally of the nearby center Piedras Negras. Stela 12 at Piedras Negras, identifies one of the kings of La Mar as being named Parrot Chaak.\n\n"}
{"id": "30366823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30366823", "title": "Languages in Contrast", "text": "Languages in Contrast\n\nLanguages in Contrast is a peer-reviewed academic journal of contrastive linguistics established in 1998 and published biannually by John Benjamins Publishing Company. Focusing on comparative studies of two or multiple languages, it covers all subfields of both theoretical and applied linguistics, such as morphology, phonology, discourse analysis, language education, etc.\n\nThe current editors-in-chief are Signe Oksefjell Ebeling and Hilde Hasselgård (University of Oslo).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "1234492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1234492", "title": "List of territorial entities where Portuguese is an official language", "text": "List of territorial entities where Portuguese is an official language\n\nThe following is a list of sovereign states and territories where Portuguese is an official or de facto language.\n\nNotes:\n\nDuring a period of Portuguese discoveries and through a large colonial empire, the language was spread to areas in Africa, Asia and the Americas. Portuguese-based creole languages also developed during this era.\n\nToday, Portuguese continues to thrive outside the Lusophone world through the presence of large expat communities of Brazilians, Portuguese, Cape Verdeans, and found throughout the world.\n\nPortuguese is spoken as a first language in Portugal by nearly all of the nation's 10.6 million people. The ancestor of modern Portuguese, Galician-Portuguese, began developing in the northwest of the Iberian Peninsula, in an area encompassing present-day northern-Portugal and Galicia, at around the 9th century. Modern Portuguese started developing in the early 16th century. \n\nThe Galician language, spoken natively in Galicia, Spain, is a dialect of Portuguese, according to many linguists, which makes northwestern Spain a lusophone region.\nPortuguese-speaking immigrants from Portugal, Brazil, Portuguese-speaking Africa and Macau have also settled in Andorra (around 15 000 speakers), Belgium, France (around 500 000 speakers), Germany, Luxembourg, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. In Luxembourg, 19% of the population speaks Portuguese as mother tongue, making it the largest minority language by percentage in a Western European country.\n\nWith a population of over 205 million, Brazil is by far the world's largest Portuguese-speaking nation and the only one in the Americas. Portuguese was introduced during the Portuguese colonial period. Portuguese has also served as a lingua franca between the various ethnic groups in Brazil and the native Amerindian population after the Jesuits were expelled from every Portuguese territory and the languages associated with them prohibited.\n\nPortuguese is the first language of the overwhelming majority of Brazilians, at 99.5%. It is followed by various German dialects, such as Riograndenser Hunsrückisch, at a distant 1.94% (co-official status).<br>\n<br> \n\nThe form of Portuguese spoken in Brazil is a little different from that spoken in Europe, with differences in vocabulary and grammar that can be compared to the differences between American and British English, but with the phonology and prosody more distinct to each other (on a slightly larger scale than that of the Metropolitan and Québécois varieties of French); nevertheless, European and Brazilian Portuguese are completely mutually intelligible. The vast majority of Brazilian characteristics are also found in some rural, remote Portuguese registers (or the African and Asian ones, indicating an Old Portuguese feature lost in Europe), while nearly all distinctive European characteristics can be found in any major dialect of Brazil (such as \"fluminense\", specially its \"carioca\" sociolect, and \"florianopolitano\"), due to a stronger or more recent Portuguese and other European immigration.\n\nMigration from Brazil also led to a great number of Portuguese speakers in the Southern Cone (especially Uruguay with \"portunhol da pampa\"), Paraguay (see \"brasiguayos\"), other regions of South America (especially Bolivia) except Venezuela, Japan (see Brazilians in Japan 400,000 and \"dekasegi\", official numbers do not include second generation Portuguese speakers and naturalized citizens), South Korea, the Philippines (see Brazilians in the Philippines), and Israel (see Aliyah from Latin America in the 2000s).\n\nAlthough Brazil is the only Portuguese-speaking nation in South America, it has the largest population, area and economy on the continent. Thus, the South American trade bloc Mercosul uses Portuguese alongside Spanish as its working languages. A Spanish influenced Portuguese dialect is spoken in the northern Uruguayan border area with Brazil. Given the proximity and trading relations between Portuguese speaking Brazil, and its respective Spanish speaking nations, Portuguese is offered as a foreign (or obligatory) second language course at most schools in Uruguay, Argentina, Paraguay, Venezuela and Bolivia.\n\nIn Venezuela and Guyana, there are communities of Portuguese immigrants (mostly Madeirans) and their descendants who speak Portuguese as their native language.\n\nThere are more than 1.5 million Portuguese Americans and about 300,000 Brazilian Americans living in the United States, and Portuguese is spoken by over 730,000 people at home in the country. There are over 500,000 people of Portuguese descent living in Canada; however, most of the community's population now speaks English or French as their primary language. Also a primary language along with English in the British Overseas Territory of Bermuda. \n\nPortuguese is the sole official language of Angola, and 85% of the population professes fluency in the language. Additionally, 75% of Angolan households speak Portuguese as their primary language, and native Bantu languages have been influenced by Portuguese through loanwords.\n\nPortuguese is the sole official language of Mozambique and serves as a lingua franca between the various ethnic groups in the country. Slightly over 30% of the population are native speakers of Portuguese, while 65% professes fluency. Most of Mozambican media is available solely in Portuguese, and the country receives several Portuguese and Brazilian television stations.\n\nDespite being the sole official language, only 50% of the population professes fluency in Portuguese. However, a Portuguese-based creole called Guinea-Bissau Creole (Kriol) is spoken by nearly the whole population.\n\nSimilar to Guinea-Bissau, although Portuguese is the only official language, a Portuguese-based creole known as Cape Verdean Creole is spoken by the majority of the population. Most Cape Verdeans are fluent in Portuguese as well. Education and media are available largely in standard European Portuguese only.\n\nIn São Tomé and Príncipe, Portuguese is by far the most spoken language, with around 95% of the population speaking it at home or professing fluency. A Portuguese-based creole called Forro is also spoken.\n\nEquatorial Guinea was a Spanish colony between 1778 and 1968 and was originally a group of Portuguese colonies between 1474 and 1778. A Portuguese creole is spoken by locals on the island of Annobón.\n\nIn 2007, President Teodoro Obiang Nguema announced a decision to make Portuguese the third official language of the country after Spanish and French. This was in an effort by the government to improve its communications, trade, and bilateral relations with Portuguese-speaking countries. Despite government promotions, Portuguese remains rarely spoken in Equatorial Guinea, but increased political and trade relations with Portuguese-speaking nations i.e., Brazil, Angola, Portugal, will soon increase the numbers of Portuguese speakers in this country. News, sports, and entertainment media in Portuguese will undoubtedly also facilitate increased comprehension. The majority of the population (~90%) still speaks Spanish as its primary language, and Spanish is still the administrative language and that of education, while French is the second official language.\n\nLarge Portuguese-speaking communities are found in Namibia, South Africa and Zambia due to immigration from the Lusophone African countries. Portuguese is also being taught in the schools of these countries.\n\nPortuguese is co-official with Tetum in East Timor and was introduced during the colonial period. A little under 39% of the population professes fluency in Portuguese. and number is steadily growing. It is believed that Portuguese will be the primary language of East Timor in as few as 5 to 10 years. The local Tetum language has been heavily influenced by Portuguese through loanwords, and code-switching between the two languages is common.\n\nDue to the one country, two systems policy of China regarding its special administrative regions, Macau is able to retain Portuguese as an official language alongside Cantonese. Portuguese was first introduced to Macau when Portuguese traders established a permanent settlement there in 1537. Despite being a Portuguese colony for over four centuries, the Portuguese language was never widely spoken in Macau and remained limited to administration and higher education and was spoken primarily by the Portuguese colonists, Macanese people of mixed ancestry, and elites and middle-class people of pure Chinese blood. As a consequence, when Macau was handed back to China in 1999, Portuguese did not have a strong presence like English had in Hong Kong and continued its decline which began when Portuguese rule was still occurring. It was only after Portuguese rule ended when the Portuguese language in Macau began to see an increase in speakers due to China's increased trading relations with Lusophone countries. There has been an increase in the teaching of Portuguese owing to the growing trade links between China and lusophone nations such as Portugal, Brazil, Angola, Mozambique, and East Timor, with 5,000 students learning the language. Today, about 3% of Macau's population speaks Portuguese as a first language and 7% of the population professes fluency. A Portuguese creole called Macanese (Patuá) was spoken by Macanese of mixed ancestry but is near extinction today.\n\nPortuguese is present in the enclave of Goa, which was a Portuguese colony until 1961. Although it was the sole official language during Portuguese colonial rule, it is mostly spoken by the elderly and educated populations today and is not an official language. Rather, Goa's official state language is Konkani, which has however picked up some Portuguese vocabulary as a legacy of Portuguese influence. Attempts to make Konkani be written in the Portuguese alphabet and possibilities of reintroducing Portuguese as a co-official language of Goa have been made in recent years; presently Portuguese is officially teaching there.\n\nPortuguese rule in Daman and Diu has also left a smaller Portuguese influence on the territory. A Portuguese-based creole called Língua da Casa is spoken in the territory. As a result of the renewed interest in the Portuguese language and culture, the Portuguese language is making an impressive comeback. Portuguese is still taught in some schools in Goa.\n\nPortuguese were also in the area of Vasai (present), previously Bassein or Bacaim since 1560 until 1739. Though the Portuguese were defeated by Marathas, there are some words which are used by the locals which are words in the Portuguese language. Today there is a large Catholic population, and many churches built during those days are still being used for worship.\n\nPortuguese is spoken in Japan among returned immigrants (500,000) or migrant workers from Brazil known as \"dekasegi\". Portuguese loanwords are also present in the Japanese language due to trading relations between Japan and the Portuguese Empire in the 16th century. Portuguese is now part of the curriculum in many Japanese schools, and many radio and television stations are broadcast exclusively in the Portuguese language.\n\nIn Malacca, Malaysia, a Portuguese creole known as \"Papiá Kristang\" or \"Cristão\" is still spoken by some of the Eurasian population.\n\n"}
{"id": "39673991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39673991", "title": "Lives of Flemish, German, and Dutch painters", "text": "Lives of Flemish, German, and Dutch painters\n\nThe Lives of Flemish, German, and Dutch painters refers to a compilation of artist biographies by Jean-Baptiste Descamps published in the mid 18th-century that were accompanied by illustrations by Charles Eisen. The list of illustrations follows and is in page order by volume. Most of the biographies were translated into French from earlier work by Karel van Mander and Arnold Houbraken. The illustrated portraits were mostly based on engravings by Jan Meyssens for Het Gulden Cabinet and by Arnold and Jacobus Houbraken for their \"Schouburgh\", while the work examples engraved in the margins of the portraits were mostly based on engravings by Jacob Campo Weyerman.\n\n"}
{"id": "18707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18707", "title": "Luigi Pirandello", "text": "Luigi Pirandello\n\nLuigi Pirandello () (28 June 1867 – 10 December 1936) was an Italian dramatist, novelist, poet, and short story writer whose greatest contributions were his plays. He was awarded the 1934 Nobel Prize in Literature for \"his almost magical power to turn psychological analysis into good theatre.\"\nPirandello's works include novels, hundreds of short stories, and about 40 plays, some of which are written in Sicilian. Pirandello's tragic farces are often seen as forerunners of the Theatre of the Absurd.\n\nPirandello was born into an upper-class family in the village of u Càvusu (Chaos), a poor suburb of Girgenti (Agrigento, a town in southern Sicily). His father, Stefano, belonged to a wealthy family involved in the sulphur industry, and his mother, Caterina Ricci Gramitto, was also of a well-to-do background, descending from a family of the bourgeois professional class of Agrigento. Both families, the Pirandellos and the Ricci Gramittos, were ferociously anti-Bourbon and actively participated in the struggle for unification and democracy (\"Il Risorgimento\"). Stefano participated in the famous Expedition of the Thousand, later following Garibaldi all the way to the battle of Aspromonte, and Caterina, who had hardly reached the age of thirteen, was forced to accompany her father to Malta, where he had been sent into exile by the Bourbon monarchy. But the open participation in the Garibaldian cause and the strong sense of idealism of those early years were quickly transformed, above all in Caterina, into an angry and bitter disappointment with the new reality created by the unification. Pirandello would eventually assimilate this sense of betrayal and resentment and express it in several of his poems and in his novel \"The Old and the Young\". It is also probable that this climate of disillusion inculcated in the young Luigi the sense of disproportion between ideals and reality which is recognizable in his essay on humorism (\"L'Umorismo\"). \n\nPirandello received his elementary education at home but was much more fascinated by the fables and legends, somewhere between popular and magic, that his elderly servant Maria Stella used to recount to him than by anything scholastic or academic. By the age of twelve he had already written his first tragedy. At the insistence of his father, he was registered at a technical school but eventually switched to the study of the humanities at the \"ginnasio\", something which had always attracted him.\n\nIn 1880, the Pirandello family moved to Palermo. It was here, in the capital of Sicily, that Luigi completed his high school education. He also began reading omnivorously, focusing, above all, on 19th-century Italian poets such as Giosuè Carducci and Arturo Graf. He then started writing his first poems and fell in love with his cousin Lina.\n\nDuring this period the first signs of serious contrast between Luigi and his father began to develop; Luigi had discovered some notes revealing the existence of Stefano's extramarital relations. As a reaction to the ever-increasing distrust and disharmony that Luigi was developing toward his father, a man of a robust physique and crude manners, his attachment to his mother would continue growing to the point of profound veneration. This later expressed itself, after her death, in the moving pages of the novella \"Colloqui con i personaggi\" in 1915.\n\nHis romantic feelings for his cousin, initially looked upon with disfavour, were suddenly taken very seriously by Lina's family. They demanded that Luigi abandon his studies and dedicate himself to the sulphur business so that he could immediately marry her. In 1886, during a vacation from school, Luigi went to visit the sulphur mines of Porto Empedocle and started working with his father. This experience was essential to him and would provide the basis for such stories as \"Il Fumo\", \"Ciàula scopre la Luna\" as well as some of the descriptions and background in the novel \"The Old and the Young\". The marriage, which seemed imminent, was postponed.\n\nPirandello then registered at the University of Palermo in the departments of Law and of Letters. The campus at Palermo, and above all the Department of Law, was the centre in those years of the vast movement which would eventually evolve into the Fasci Siciliani. Although Pirandello was not an active member of this movement, he had close ties of friendship with its leading ideologists: Rosario Garibaldi Bosco, Enrico La Loggia, Giuseppe De Felice Giuffrida and Francesco De Luca.\n\nIn 1887, having definitively chosen the Department of Letters, he moved to Rome in order to continue his studies. But the encounter with the city, centre of the struggle for unification to which the families of his parents had participated with generous enthusiasm, was disappointing and nothing close to what he had expected. \"When I arrived in Rome it was raining hard, it was night time and I felt like my heart was being crushed, but then I laughed like a man in the throes of desperation.\"\n\nPirandello, who was an extremely sensitive moralist, finally had a chance to see for himself the irreducible decadence of the so-called heroes of the Risorgimento in the person of his uncle Rocco, now a greying and exhausted functionary of the prefecture who provided him with temporary lodgings in Rome. The \"desperate laugh\", the only manifestation of revenge for the disappointment undergone, inspired the bitter verses of his first collection of poems, \"Mal Giocondo\" (1889). But not all was negative; this first visit to Rome provided him with the opportunity to assiduously visit the many theatres of the capital: Il Nazionale, Il Valle, il Manzoni. \"Oh the dramatic theatre! I will conquer it. I cannot enter into one without experiencing a strange sensation, an excitement of the blood through all my veins...\"\n\nBecause of a conflict with a Latin professor, he was forced to leave the University of Rome and went to Bonn with a letter of presentation from one of his other professors. The stay in Bonn, which lasted two years, was fervid with cultural life. He read the German romantics, Jean Paul, Tieck, Chamisso, Heinrich Heine and Goethe. He began translating the \"Roman Elegies\" of Goethe, composed the \"Elegie Boreali\" in imitation of the style of the \"Roman Elegies\", and he began to meditate on the topic of humorism by way of the works of Cecco Angiolieri.\n\nIn March 1891 he received his doctorate in Romance Philology with a dissertation on the dialect of Agrigento: \"Sounds and Developments of Sounds in the Speech of Craperallis\".\n\nAfter a brief sojourn in Sicily, during which the planned marriage with his cousin was finally called off, he returned to Rome, where he became friends with a group of writer-journalists including Ugo Fleres, Tomaso Gnoli, Giustino Ferri and Luigi Capuana. Capuana encouraged Pirandello to dedicate himself to narrative writing. In 1893 he wrote his first important work, \"Marta Ajala\", which was published in 1901 as \"l'Esclusa\". In 1894 he published his first collection of short stories, \"Amori senza Amore\". He married in 1894 as well. Following his father's suggestion he married a shy, withdrawn girl of a good family of Agrigentine origin educated by the nuns of San Vincenzo: Antonietta Portulano.\n\nThe first years of matrimony brought on in him a new fervour for his studies and writings: his encounters with his friends and the discussions on art continued, more vivacious and stimulating than ever, while his family life, despite the complete incomprehension of his wife with respect to the artistic vocation of her husband, proceeded relatively tranquilly with the birth of two sons (Stefano and Fausto) and a daughter (Lietta). In the meantime, Pirandello intensified his collaborations with newspaper editors and other journalists in magazines such as \"La Critica\" and \"La Tavola Rotonda\" in which he published, in 1895, the first part of the \"Dialoghi tra Il Gran Me e Il Piccolo Me\".\n\nIn 1897 he accepted an offer to teach Italian at the Istituto Superiore di Magistero di Roma, and in the magazine \"Marzocco\" he published several more pages of the \"Dialoghi\". In 1898, with Italo Falbo and Ugo Fleres, he founded the weekly \"Ariel\", in which he published the one-act play \"L'Epilogo\" (later changed to \"La Morsa\") and some novellas (La Scelta, Se...). The end of the 19th century and the beginnings of the 20th were a period of extreme productivity for Pirandello. In 1900, he published in \"Marzocco\" some of the most celebrated of his novellas (\"Lumie di Sicilia\", \"La Paura del Sonno\"...) and, in 1901, the collection of poems \"Zampogna\". In 1902 he published the first series of \"Beffe della Morte e della Vita\" and his second novel, \"Il Turno\".\n\nThe year 1903 was fundamental to the life of Pirandello. The flooding of the sulphur mines of Aragona, in which his father Stefano had invested not only an enormous amount of his own capital but also Antonietta's dowry, precipitated the collapse of the family. Antonietta, after opening and reading the letter announcing the catastrophe, entered into a state of semi-catatonia and underwent such a psychological shock that her mental balance remained profoundly and irremediably shaken.\n\nPirandello, who had initially harboured thoughts of suicide, attempted to remedy the situation as best he could by increasing the number of his lessons in both Italian and German and asking for compensation from the magazines to which he had freely given away his writings and collaborations. In the magazine \"New Anthology\", directed by G. Cena, meanwhile, the novel which Pirandello had been writing while in this horrible situation (watching over his mentally ill wife at night after an entire day spent at work) began appearing in episodes. The title was \"Il Fu Mattia Pascal\" (\"The Late Mattia Pascal\"). This novel contains many autobiographical elements that have been fantastically re-elaborated. It was an immediate and resounding success. Translated into German in 1905, this novel paved the way to the notoriety and fame which allowed Pirandello to publish for the more important editors such as \"Treves\", with whom he published, in 1906, another collection of novellas \"Erma Bifronte\". In 1908 he published a volume of essays entitled \"Arte e Scienza\" and the important essay \"L'Umorismo\", in which he initiated the legendary debate with Benedetto Croce that would continue with increasing bitterness and venom on both sides for many years.\n\nIn 1909 the first part of \"I Vecchi e I Giovani\" was published in episodes. This novel retraces the history of the failure and repression of the Fasci Siciliani in the period from 1893 to 1894. When the novel came out in 1913 Pirandello sent a copy of it to his parents for their fiftieth wedding anniversary along with a dedication which said that \"their names, Stefano and Caterina, live heroically.\" However, while the mother is transfigured in the novel into the otherworldly figure of Caterina Laurentano, the father, represented by the husband of Caterina, Stefano Auriti, appears only in memories and flashbacks, since, as was acutely observed by Leonardo Sciascia, \"he died censured in a Freudian sense by his son who, in the bottom of his soul, is his enemy.\" Also in 1909, Pirandello began his collaboration with the prestigious journal \"Corriere della Sera\" in which he published the novellas \"Mondo di Carta\" (\"World of Paper\"), \"La Giara\", and, in 1910, \"Non è una cosa seria\" and \"Pensaci, Giacomino!\" (\"Think it over, Giacomino!\") At this point Pirandello's fame as a writer was continually increasing. His private life, however, was poisoned by the suspicion and obsessive jealousy of Antonietta who began turning physically violent.\n\nIn 1911, while the publication of novellas and short stories continued, Pirandello finished his fourth novel, \"Suo Marito\", republished posthumously (1941), and completely revised in the first four chapters, with the title \"Giustino Roncella nato Boggiòlo\". During his life the author never republished this novel for reasons of discretion; within are implicit references to the writer Grazia Deledda. But the work which absorbed most of his energies at this time was the collection of stories \"La Vendetta del Cane\", \"Quando s'è capito il giuoco\", \"Il treno ha fischiato\", \"Filo d'aria\" and \"Berecche e la guerra\". They were all published from 1913 to 1914 and are all now considered classics of Italian literature.\n\nAs Italy entered the First World War, Pirandello's son Stefano volunteered for service and was taken prisoner by the Austro-Hungarians. In 1916 the actor Angelo Musco successfully recited the three-act comedy that the writer had extracted from the novella \"Pensaci, Giacomino!\" and the \"pastoral\" comedy \"Liolà\".\n\nIn 1917 the collection of novellas \"E domani Lunedì\" (\"And Tomorrow, Monday...\") was published, but the year was mostly marked by important theatrical representations: \"Così è (se vi pare)\" (\"Right you are (if you think so)\"), \"A birrita cu' i ciancianeddi\" and \"Il Piacere dell'onestà\" (\"The Pleasure Of Honesty\"). A year later, \"Ma non è una cosa seria\" (\"But It's Nothing Serious\") and \"Il Gioco delle parti\" (\"The Game of Roles\") were all produced on stage. Pirandello's son Stefano returned home when the war ended.\nIn 1919 Pirandello had his wife placed in an asylum. The separation from his wife, despite her morbid jealousies and hallucinations, caused great suffering for Pirandello who, even as late as 1924, believed he could still properly care for her at home. She never left the asylum.\n\n1920 was the year of comedies such as \"Tutto per bene\", \"Come prima meglio di prima\", and \"La Signora Morli\". In 1921, the \"Compagnia di Dario Niccomedi\" staged, at the Valle di Roma, the play, \"Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore\", \"Six Characters in Search of an Author\". It was a clamorous failure. The public divided into supporters and adversaries, the latter of whom shouted, \"Asylum, Asylum!\" The author, who was present at the performance with his daughter Lietta, left through a side exit to avoid the crowd of enemies. The same drama, however, was a great success when presented in Milan. In 1922 in Milan, \"Enrico IV\" was performed for the first time and was acclaimed universally as a success. Pirandello's international reputation was developing as well. The \"Sei personaggi\" was performed in London and New York.\n\nIn 1925, Pirandello, with the help of Mussolini, assumed the artistic direction and ownership of the Teatro d'Arte di Roma, founded by the Gruppo degli Undici. He described himself as \"a Fascist because I am Italian.\" For his devotion to Mussolini, the satirical magazine \"Il Becco Giallo\" used to call him \"P. Randello\" (\"randello\" in Italian means club).\n\nHe expressed publicly apolitical belief, saying \"I'm apolitical, I'm only a man in the world...\" He had continuous conflicts with famous fascist leaders. In 1927 he tore his fascist membership card to pieces in front of the startled secretary-general of the Fascist Party. For the remainder of his life, Pirandello was always under close surveillance by the secret fascist police OVRA.\n\nHis play, \"The Giants of the Mountain\", has been interpreted as evidence of his realization that the fascists were hostile to culture; yet, during a later appearance in New York, Pirandello distributed a statement announcing his support of Italy's annexation of Abyssinia. He gave his Nobel Prize medal to the Fascist government to be melted down for the Abyssinia Campaign. Mussolini's support brought him international fame and a worldwide tour, introducing his work to London, Paris, Vienna, Prague, Budapest, Germany, Argentina, and Brazil.\n\nPirandello's conception of the theatre underwent a significant change at this point. The idea of the actor as an inevitable betrayer of the text, as in the \"Sei personaggi,\" gave way to the identification of the actor with the character that they play. The company took their act throughout the major cities of Europe, and the Pirandellian repertoire became increasingly well known. Between 1925 and 1926 Pirandello's last and perhaps greatest novel, \"Uno, Nessuno e Centomila\" (\"One, No one and One Hundred Thousand\"), was published serially in the magazine \"Fiera Letteraria\".\n\nPirandello was nominated Academic of Italy in 1929, and in 1934 he was awarded the Nobel Prize for literature after he had been nominated by Guglielmo Marconi, member of the Royal Academy of Italy. He was the last Italian playwright to be chosen for the award until 9 October 1997.\n\nPirandello died alone in his home at Via Bosio, Rome, on 10 December 1936.\n\n\n\n\n\nNearly all of Pirandello's plays were translated into English by the actor Robert Rietti. Pirandello's poetry was translated for the first time in 2016 by George Hochfield.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13982958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13982958", "title": "Mork Goes Erk", "text": "Mork Goes Erk\n\n\"Mork Goes Erk\" is the seventeenth episode of the first season of \"Mork & Mindy\". The episode first premiered on ABC on February 8, 1979. \"Mork Goes Erk\" was later released on VHS on January 1, 1998 as part of a two-episode special which also included \"Mork's First Christmas,\" and on DVD on September 7, 2004 as part of the \"Mork & Mindy - The Complete First Season\" DVD boxed set.\n\nIn the episode, David Letterman portrayed a self-help group leader by the name of \"Ellsworth\" offering ERK or Ellsworth Revitalization Konditioning. Mork (Robin Williams) and Mindy (Pam Dawber) attend one of Ellsworth's trainings at the suggestion of their friend Susan (Morgan Fairchild), where they endure Ellsworth's authoritarian brand of group therapy. Mork points out hypocrisy in Ellsworth's teachings, and exposes him as a fraud. The episode has been called a parody of the Erhard Seminars Training or \"est\" course. The episode received mostly positive reviews, and was highlighted as one of the season's best episodes, along with \"Mork's First Christmas\" and \"Mork's Mixed Emotions\". David Letterman's performance as \"Ellsworth\" also received good reviews.\n\nAt the beginning of the episode, Mork, Mindy and Bickley (Tom Poston) are all sitting around feeling depressed. Mindy has just learned that Mork's supervisor Orson has arranged for Mork to be transferred to another planet, and Bickley is suffering from writer's block. Their friend Susan comes by to visit, and suggests that they all go and attend a seminar on Ellsworth's Revitalization Konditioning. As the guests arrive at the seminar, Ellsworth nervously asks Susan if all of the attendees' checks are in order. He then lays out the rules for the duration of the training, which includes no leaving and no consumption of alcohol. When Bickley hears this, he promptly gets up to leave the seminar.\n\nThe attendants of the seminar are then given Ellsworth's harsh version of reality, which has been compared to the tenets of Erhard Seminars Training. Ellsworth preaches a belief in self-adoration, which he says will get rid of emotional highs and lows. Ellsworth centers this goal around the notion of \"finding our own space.\" He utilizes an authoritarian style of control within the group, as a therapeutic method to solve problems. The other attendees at the seminar are shown to be passive consumers looking for any way to fix their personal issues. However, Mork, with his trademark causing of difficulty, begins to question the foundation of the rules of the course, as well as the nature of the philosophical material that Ellsworth has put forth, by pointing out hypocrisy among Ellsworth's own contradictory statements. In the end, Mork wins out over the Ellsworth philosophy by instead calling to mind universal humanistic moral values. Ellsworth dismisses Mork's victory over his methodology, exclaiming: \"I've got my Rolls-Royce!\" Mork wins a moral victory-and Ellworth, it turns out, has had his Rolls-Royce stolen.\n\nIn a 1982 article in the journal \"Theory & Society\", Lewis & Clark College sociology professor Robert Goldman compared and contrasted Letterman's \"Ellsworth\" character and his training program to that of Werner Erhard's course Erhard Seminars Training. Goldman noted that the episode spent time: \"lampooning Werner Erhard and est-like commercial pop psychologies.\" However, Goldman went on to note that the inherent problem with \"Ellsworth Revitalization Konditioning\" was not the training - but Ellsworth himself.\n\nEllsworth is seen as a parody of consumerism: \"As the self-help entrepreneur, Ellsworth is portrayed as a walking collection of lifestyle-status points and sign-values...Conspicuous consumption and commodity fetishism define his personality.\" Goldman explained that the \"Mork and Mindy\" episode succeeded in distinguishing between criticism of the Ellsworth training, and criticism of Ellsworth, citing Ellsworth's character traits of: \"tyranny, selfishness, open greed, and flaunting of the accoutrements of his vulgar money-making.\"\n\nTV Guide's 2005 book \"TV Guide: The Ultimate Resource to Television Programs on DVD\" highlighted \"Mork Goes Erk\" as one of three \"Classic Episodes\" of the first season, including \"Mork's First Christmas\", and \"Mork's Mixed Emotions\". Matthew Tobey of \"Allmovie\" wrote that the episode was most notable because of David Letterman's appearance before he became more well known. Donald Liebenson of \"Amazon.com\" also cited David Letterman's performance as: \"an abusive EST-like guru\" as one of the more memorable parts of the Season One DVD boxed set, but thought that the highlight of the season was the episode \"Mork's Mixed Emotions.\" The \"Dallas Morning News\" also praised Letterman's performance as a \"shady motivational speaker,\" commenting that the episode was a way for Letterman to hone his \"smarminess\" before his later work on \"Late Show with David Letterman\". Jonathan Boudreaux of \"tvdvdreviews.com\" described Letterman as \"a flakey EST-like guru,\" and called the episode itself \"disjointed.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58337718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58337718", "title": "Naomi Sykes", "text": "Naomi Sykes\n\nNaomi Sykes FSA is a zooarchaeologist and is currently the Lawrence Professor of Archaeology at the University of Exeter. Sykes researches human-animal relations in the past.\n\nSykes' early work studied the zooarchaeology of the Norman Conquest in Britain. Her thesis was completed at 2001 at the University of Southampton. Sykes was previously based at the University of Nottingham, and is currently the Lawrence Professor of Archaeology at the University of Exeter.\n\nIn 2014 Sykes published \"Beastly Questions,\" which has been described as \"a lucid, thought-provoking and challenging review of the state of the discipline.\"\n\nSykes was elected as a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "15065144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15065144", "title": "Nielsen BookScan", "text": "Nielsen BookScan\n\nNielsen BookScan has been a data provider for the book publishing industry, owned by the Nielsen Company up to 2016, though it is still in use via the NPD Group. BookScan compiles point of sale data for book sales.\n\nFollowing the success of Nielsen SoundScan which tracked point of sale figures for music, the Nielsen Company decided to launch a similar service for book sales. Nielsen BookScan was launched in January 2001. Previously, tracking of book sales, such as by the New York Times Best Seller list, was done without raw numbers. \"The New York Times\" would survey hundreds of outlets to estimate which books were selling the most copies, and would publish rankings but not figures. Only the publisher of a book tracked how many copies had been sold, but rarely shared this data.\n\nNielsen BookScan relies on point of sale data from a number of major book sellers. In 2009 Nielsen BookScan's US Consumer Market Panel covered 75% of retail sales.\n\nBookScan was initially greeted with skepticism, but is now widely used by both the publishing industry and the media. Publishers use the numbers to track the success of their rivals. The media uses the figures as a reference to gauge a title's success. Daniel Gross of \"Slate\" has noted the increase of pundits using the figures to disparage each other.\n\nBookScan also provided previously unavailable metrics on books published by multiple publishers, such as classic novels in the public domain which may be published by many different houses. Previously, no single entity had figures for the sales of these books; publishers and bookstores only knew their own sales. \"Slate\" noted that Jane Austen's \"Pride and Prejudice\" was available from Amazon in 130 different editions; prior to BookScan there was no way to tabulate total sales. By summing BookScan data, however, \"Pride and Prejudice\" was reported to command sales of 110,000 a year, nearly 200 years after being published.\n\nBookScan records cash register sales of books by tracking ISBNs when a clerk scans the barcode. BookScan only tracks print book sales, thus excluding ebook sales from major e-tailers such as Amazon Kindle, Barnes & Noble Nook, Kobo, Apple, and Google Play. BookScan likewise does not include non-retail sales through channels such as libraries, nor specialty retailers who do not report to the service.\n\nBookScan and other services, as Pubtrack Digital, PubTrack Higher Education, PubTrack Christian, Books & Consumers, PubEasy und PubNet belong to The NPD Group since January, 2017. NPD has acquired these services from Nielsen’s U.S. market information and research services for the book industry. These services will be part of NPD Book, a new U.S. practice area.\n\nNielsen will offer these services furthermore in 9 countries outside U.S., named \"Nielsen Book\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41138999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41138999", "title": "Pitirim Sorokin", "text": "Pitirim Sorokin\n\nPitirim Alexandrovich Sorokin (; , – 10 February 1968) was a Russian-born American sociologist and political activist, best known for his contributions to the social cycle theory. \n\nPitirim Alexandrovich Sorokin was born on , in Turya, a small village in Yarensk uyezd, Vologda Governorate, Russian Empire (now Knyazhpogostsky District, Komi Republic, Russia), the second son to a Russian father and Komi mother. Sorokin's father, Alexander Prokopievich Sorokin, was from Veliky Ustyug and a travelling craftsman specializing in gold and silver, while his mother, Pelageya Vasilievna, was a native of Zheshart and belonged to a peasant family. His elder brother, Vasily, was born in 1885, and his younger brother, Prokopy, was born in 1893. Sorokin's mother died on March 7, 1894, in the village of Kokvitsa, and after her death Sorokin and his elder brother Vasily stayed with their father, travelling with him through the villages in search of work, while Prokopy was taken in by his aunt, Anisya Vasilievna Rimsky, who lived with her husband, Vasily Ivanovich, in the village of Rimia. Sorokin's father began to develop alcoholism, and following instances of physical abuse, he and Vasily left their father to be independent.\n\nIn the early 1900s, supporting himself as an artisan and clerk, Sorokin attended the Saint Petersburg Imperial University in Saint Petersburg where he earned his graduate degree in criminology and became a professor. \n\nSorokin was an anti-communist, and during the Russian Revolution was a member of the Socialist Revolutionary Party, supporter of the White Movement, and a secretary to Prime Minister Alexander Kerensky who was a leader in the Russian Constituent Assembly. After the October Revolution, Sorokin continued to fight communist leaders, and was arrested by the new regime several times before he was eventually condemned to death. After six weeks in prison, Sorokin was released and went back to teaching at the University of St. Petersburg, becoming the founder of the sociology department at the university. In 1922, Sorokin was again arrested and this time exiled by the Soviet government, emigrating in 1923 to the United States, and became a naturalized citizen in 1930. \n\nSorokin was a leader among the Democrats leading up to the Russian revolution, and was sought by Lenin's forces after Lenin consolidated his power. After months in hiding, he escaped from the Soviet Union in 1922 and emigrated to the United States, becoming a naturalized citizen in 1930. Sorokin was personally requested to accept a position at Harvard University, founding the Department of Sociology and becoming a vocal critic of his colleague, Talcott Parsons. Sorokin was an ardent opponent of communism, which he regarded as a \"pest of man,\" and was a deputy of the Russian Constituent Assembly.\n\nSorokin was professor of sociology at the University of Minnesota from 1924 to 1940, when he accepted an offer of a position by the president of Harvard University, where he continued to work until 1959. One of his students was writer Myra Page.\n\nBefore his achievements as a professor in the United States, he published his 1924 \"Leaves of a Russian Diary\", by (E.P. Dutton & Co.), giving a daily, and sometimes hourly account of the Russian Revolution which actually first started in February 1917 where he was in the forefront of creating a provisionary government, only to see it unravel and lose power to the Bolsheviks in October 1917. In 1950, Sorokin published an addendum to the book called \"The Thirty Years After.\" It is a personal and brutally honest account of the revolution and of his exile.\n\nSorokin's academic writings are extensive; he wrote 37 books and more than 400 articles. His controversial theories of social process and the historical typology of cultures are expounded in \"Social and Cultural Dynamics\" (4 vol., 1937–41; rev. and abridged ed. 1957) and many other works. Sorokin was also interested in social stratification, the history of sociological theory, and altruistic behavior.\n\nSorokin's work addressed three major theories: social differentiation, social stratification and social conflict. The theory of social differentiation describes three types of societal relationships. The first is familistic, which is the type that we would generally strive for. It is the relationship that has the most solidarity, the values of everyone involved are considered, and there is a great deal of interaction.\n\nSocial stratification refers to the fact that all societies are hierarchically divided, with upper and lower strata and unequal distribution of wealth, power, and influence across strata. There is always some mobility between these strata. People or groups may move up or down the hierarchy, acquiring or losing their power and influence.\n\nSocial conflict refers to Sorokin's theory of war. Whether internal to a nation or international, peace is based on similarity of values among the people of a nation or between different nations. War has a destructive phase, when values are destroyed, and a declining phase, when some of values are restored. Sorokin thought that the number of wars would decrease with increased solidarity and decreased antagonism. If a society's values stressed altruism instead of egoism, the incidence of war would diminish.\n\nIn his \"Social and Cultural Dynamics\", his magnum opus, Sorokin classified societies according to their 'cultural mentality', which can be \"ideational\" (reality is spiritual), \"sensate\" (reality is material), or \"idealistic\" (a synthesis of the two). He suggested that major civilizations evolve from an ideational to an idealistic, and eventually to a sensate mentality. Each of these phases of cultural development not only seeks to describe the nature of reality, but also stipulates the nature of human needs and goals to be satisfied, the extent to which they should be satisfied, and the methods of satisfaction. Sorokin has interpreted the contemporary Western civilization as a sensate civilization, dedicated to technological progress and prophesied its fall into decadence and the emergence of a new ideational or idealistic era. In \"Fads and Foibles\", he criticizes Lewis Terman's \"Genetic Studies of Genius\" research, showing that his selected group of children with high IQs did about as well as a random group of children selected from similar family backgrounds would have done.\n\nSorokin married Dr. Helen Baratynskaya, with whom he had two sons. \n\nSorokin died on 10 February 1968, in Winchester, Massachusetts. A Russian Orthodox service was held at home for the family, followed by an eclectic service at the Memorial Church of Harvard University.\n\nSorokin's papers are currently held by the University of Saskatchewan in Saskatoon, Canada, where they are available to the public. In March 2009 the Sorokin Research Center was established at the facilities of Syktyvkar State University in Syktyvkar, Republic of Komi, for the purpose of research and publication of archive materials, mainly from the collection at the University of Saskatchewan. The first research project \"Selected Correspondence of Pitirim Sorokin: Scientist from Komi on The Service of Humanity\" (in Russian) has been drafted and will be in print in the Fall of 2009 in Russia. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53069992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53069992", "title": "Political economy of communications", "text": "Political economy of communications\n\nThe political economy of communications, news, or media, is a particular branch in Communication studies or media studies which studies the power relations (political economy) that constitute the communication of information from the mass media to its publics. The concept has been developed by media and political economy scholars, such as Dallas Walker Smythe, Herbert Schiller, Vincent Mosco, Dan Schiller, and Robert W. McChesney. More specifically, PEC analyzes the social relations between the mass media system, the communication technology, and the wider social/economic structure in which it operates (e.g., role of the state), with a focus on understanding both the historical emergence and current state of technological developments.\n\nOne of the most early modern works in the political economy of communications are Harold Innis' works which were compiled in the book \"Empire and Communications\". This directly inspired Marshall McLuhan, a colleague of Innis at the University of Toronto, who would later be made famous for the dictum \"the medium is the message\". Subsequent PEC approaches have been heavily influenced by Marxist thought and democratic politics, as it questions powers of and within communications against the realization of democracy.\n\n\nAs journalism/news media is the core to the functioning of democratic society. PEC works towards the goal of \"healthy journalism.\" Unfortunately for democracy, the current state of news media around the world and especially that of the United States, falls short of the general consensus (among media scholars and democratic theory) on what is considered to be healthy journalism. This is due in part to the overwhelming amount of public relations material being posed as news.\n\nIt is in the interest of PEC that journalism instead provide a \"rigorous account\" of those in power, meet the information needs of all classes and people, be truthful, and act as an early warning system by providing a \"wide range of informed opinions on the most important issues of our time.\"\n\nThe mass media are undoubtedly experiencing considerable changes in platform, technology, and economic structure (e.g., crowdfunding, social media) as the digital era continues to shift people toward \"new\" media. Traditional financial configurations and business models have been destabilized by this transformation. However, new mechanisms of power have emerged from this more open system of information and news creation. The availability of information can now be skewed or influenced through \"search, aggregation, and digital distribution infrastructures\" (p. 493). Vincent Mosco's definition of political economic studies, where the \"production, distribution, and consumption of resources, including communication resources” are essential, thus remains relevant even in times of new media, since a new (network) economy/society forms its \"own\" power relations.\n"}
{"id": "511966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=511966", "title": "Potnia Theron", "text": "Potnia Theron\n\nPotnia Theron (Ἡ Πότνια Θηρῶν, \"The Mistress of the Animals\") is a term first used (once) by Homer (Iliad 21. 470) and often used to describe female divinities associated with animals. The word \"Potnia\", meaning mistress or lady, was a Mycenaean Greek word inherited by Classical Greek, with the same meaning, cognate to Sanskrit \".\"\n\nHomer's mention of \"potnia theron\" is thought to refer to Artemis and Walter Burkert describes this mention as \"a well established formula\". An Artemis type deity, a 'Mistress of the Animals', is often assumed to have existed in prehistorical religion and often referred to as Potnia Theron, with some scholars positing a relationship between Artemis and goddesses depicted in Minoan art and \"\"Potnia Theron\" has become a generic term for any female associated with animals.\"\n\nMany depictions use a female version of the widespread ancient motif of the male Master of Animals, showing a central figure with a human form grasping two animals, one to each side. The oldest depiction has been discovered in Çatalhöyük. \nAnother example of \"Potnia theròn\" is situated in Museo civico archeologico di Monte Rinaldo in Italy: plate illustrates goddess that wears a long dress and holds hands with two panthers.\n\n"}
{"id": "26265753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26265753", "title": "Quelepa", "text": "Quelepa\n\nQuelepa is an important archaeological site located in eastern El Salvador. Generally considered to have been settled by the Lenca people, the site was founded around 400 BC, in the Late Preclassic period (500 BC - AD 250). The inhabitants constructed a platform from plaster and pumice and rebuilt it a number of times. Artefacts recovered during the excavations of the site indicate that the local population depended upon subsistence agriculture, these artefacts included \"metates\" (a kind of mortar) and \"comales\" (a type of griddle). The site belonged to the Mesoamerican cultural region. Quelepa means \"stone jaguar\" in the Lenca language, probably in reference to the large Jaguar Altar found at the site.\n\nThroughout its occupational history, the inhabitants crafted stone tools from obsidian. The site appears to have been linked to trade routes extending to western El Salvador and the Guatemalan Highlands and also to the north in Honduras.\n\nAlthough sites in western El Salvador were severely affected by the eruption of the Ilopango Volcano during the Early Classic, its only effect on Quelepa was the severance of trade routes into Mesoamerica. This cutting off did not result in stagnation at the site, but rather resulted in the florescence of a local culture.\n\nThe Quelepa archaeological site is located outside the small village of the same name. The ruins are situated along the north bank of the San Esteban River, a tributary of the Río Grande de San Miguel which flows into the Pacific Ocean. The site is located west-northwest of the town of San Miguel. Quelepa is north of the neighbouring site of Los Llanitos. The archaeological site divided into East and West groups by a small stream called the Quebrada Agua Zarca, which has high, steep banks. The ruins have an altitude of between above mean sea level.\n\nThe archaeological remains of Quelepa are on privately owned land under cultivation, the entire East Group together with a part of the west group are on the land of the Hacienda El Obrajuelo farm. The area to the west of the Quebrada Agua Zarca is planted with maize and cotton, as is the area south of the river.\n\nThe general area around Quelapa is part of the flood plain of the Río Grande de San Miguel, lying between the hills to the north and the San Miguel volcano some from the Pacific Ocean. The volcano is the most prominent local landmark, with its peak at above mean sea level. Although the volcano has erupted 6 times since 1699, most recently in 1924, and continues in a low state of activity it has never dropped sufficient volcanic ash on Quelepa to be detectable archaeologically.\n\nThe climate of Quelepa is classified under the Köppen system as tropical wet and dry. The majority of rainfall falls between in months of September and October with a long dry season from November to May. Monthly rainfall averages between in September and less than in March. Native fauna has been practically extinguished by the heavy use of pesticides on the local cotton crops. Andrews reported many iguanas near the watercourses and the occasional snake.\n\nQuelepa was founded around 400 BC, in the Late Preclassic period (500 BC - AD 250). The first inhabitants of the site constructed a platform from plaster and pumice and rebuilt it a number of times Quelepa is generally considered to have been settled by the Lenca people.\n\nAround AD 200 the Ilopango volcano erupted and devastated western El Salvador, breaking Quelepa's link with Mesoamerica. Between AD 150 and AD 625 Quelepa turned instead to the Intermediate Area beyond the frontiers of Mesoamerica, with artefacts arriving from the north and the east. The major ceremonial architecture of the East Group was built in the Early Classic.\n\nIn the Late Classic to Early Postclassic periods (from approximately AD 625–1000), the ceremonial centre of the settlement was abandoned and smaller structures were built around a small plaza. This has been interpreted as a Mesoamerican influence with its origins on the Gulf coast of Mexico, or perhaps from Seibal, a Maya city in the Petén Basin of northern Guatemala. The stone facing from this period is cruder than that of earlier times and stairways replaced the earlier use of access ramps. The ballcourt also dates to this time.\n\nQuelepa as a whole was abandoned around AD 1000, at the beginning of the Early Postclassic period. The abandonment of the site has been linked to the arrival of the Pipil people in the El Salvador region, although there is no evidence that they ever occupied the site.\n\nThe first mention of Quelepa in print was a brief description written by Atilio Peccorini and published in 1913. Herbert Spinden mentioned Quelepa in 1915 and Peccorini published another, even less detailed account in 1926. Peccorini reported that the site had many structures faced with stone, a paved \"road\", artificial terraces and various sculptured monuments, one of which was probably the Jaguar Altar. Also in 1926, Samuel K. Lothrop mentioned that he made a brief visit to the ruins to buy ceramics for the Museum of the American Indian in New York City, he listed Quelepa in his list of archaeological sites in El Salvador under the alternative name of \"Mayacaquin\". The site was visited by Antonio Sol, the Director of the Departamento Nacional de Historia, in 1929.\n\nThe first excavation of the site took place in 1949, directed by Pedro Armillas. The investigations focused on Structure 3 in the East Group and were never completed and the results were unpublished, although the fieldnotes he made were forwarded to E. Wyllys Andrews V.\n\nThe principal excavations of the site were carried out under the direction of E. Wyllys Andrews from 1967–1969, funded by the Middle American Research Institute of Tulane University and by the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare.\n\nAlthough the site is officially listed as a National Archaeological Monument, as recently as 2005 it was effectively unprotected.\n\nQuelepa has approximately 40 structures occupying an area of approximately . They are spread out over a distance of along the bank of the San Esteban River, never at a distance greater the from the river itself. Ceramic remains and isolated mounds extend as far as from the site core. The site is divided into East and West Groups by a small stream. Structure size at the site varies greatly from high pyramids to small, badly eroded mounds. These smaller mounds probably served as platform bases for perishable structures. The site also possesses a Mesoamerican ballcourt. Agricultural land use of the site continues to constantly erode the archaeological remains.\n\nThe site, unusually for Mesoamerica, features ramps in place of stairways for some structures. Ramps have also been reported from Los Naranjos in Honduras and from Bilbao on the Pacific coast of Guatemala, although the latter differed in form and function from those at Quelepa. In all cases, the ramps have been dated to the Classic period.\n\nThe two groups are fairly distinct in their architectural styles, probably due to being built in different periods. The West Group is probably the later of the two groups and is similar to a miniature Maya-style acropolis.\n\nThe area south of the San Esteban River lacks structures but contains a great number of tombs.\n\nA cache was uncovered at the site that contained a collection of artefacts associated with the Mesoamerican ballgame, including finely sculpted yokes, \"palmas\" and a \"hacha\". They were all placed under a stone slab. These, together with other artefacts such as flutes and wheeled toys indicate a link with the Gulf coast of Mexico.\n\nThe structures of the West Group are located upon artificial terraces that are generally aligned north-south. To the south of the group the terrain descends steeply to the river. The group consists of a number of mounds, 15 of which are arranged around a rectangular plaza in the southeastern area of the group, most of them upon an artificial terrace. The northeast of this terrace supports a narrow platform upon which was built a long, low structure. A similar structure is on the east side of the plaza. The mounds in the West Group date to the Late Classic.\n\nThe I-shaped Ballcourt (denominated Structure 19) is situated north of the plaza, it has not been excavated. It consists of a mound measuring long and high that forms one side of the playing area, with the west side formed by the face of a terrace. The ballcourt is oriented north-south. The north and sound end zones are close by low, narrow walls running east-west. In the rain season, runoff water flows through the ballcourt and has buried it under more than of soil. The original height of the sides of the ballcourt was probably around . Two large stone slabs were laid in the centre of the playing area, upon them was a broken sandstone disc that measured and was probably a ballcourt marker.\n\nStructure 23 is a small platform dating to the Late Classic. It is located near the edge of a high terrace and closes the west side of a small plaza. It is a single-level platform with vertical sides and measures by high. It was accessed by a wide stairway that extends westwards from the platform. The use of a stairway indicates a major change in architectural style, moving away from the earlier use of ramps and involving the use of poorly reworked stone blocks for the facing of the building. The platform and the stairway both contained a mix of earth, mud and rock infill. Burnt remains of wattle and daub were found scattered around the base, together with fragments of mortar and red-painted stucco. The wattle and daub suggests a perishable superstructure once stood upon the platform but it is not certain if the stucco came from this or from the platform itself. Offering 23 was excavated from the structure and contained three ceramic vessels, including a red effigy vessel. This offering was buried at the time the structure was built and was likely to have been a dedicatory offering. A rough altar had been built in the angle formed by the southern wall of the stairway and the western wall of the platform itself.\n\nStructure 28 is a platform located to the south of Structure 23. It measured high and has been badly eroded. Its architectural style is identical to that of Structure 23, suggesting that it also dates from the Late Classic. The platform base was buried under a thick layer of burnt wattle and daub mixed with ceramic fragments, probably the remains of a perishable superstructure that once stood on top of the platform.\n\nStructure 29 is a small mound that was a three-tiered pyramid platform measuring at the base. It is out of alignment with the other structures in the west group. The mound was high when excavated but the structure's original height has been calculated as approximately based on the angle of its stairway. The stone facing was poor quality, consisting of rough, unequal stones placed haphazardly and cemented with mud mortar. This was then roughly covered with a thick, uneven coating of mortar. The lowest tier of the platform was high, the middle tier measured in height and the third tier was approximately high. The stairway climbed the west side of the platform and projected from the base of the pyramid. Structure 29 was built over an earlier structure that was similar in form. The poor workmanship associated with Structure 29 indicates that it was probably one of the last major structures to be erected at Quelepa. Ceramic evidence indicates that the building was abandoned at the end of the occupational history of the site, around AD 1000 at the beginning of the Early Postclassic period.\n\nOffering 22 was found in front of Structure 29-sub and consisted of 3 ceramic discs piled on top of each other, a large obsidian knife, a piece of haematite, a piece of dusty orange clay, and 43 flakes of obsidian. Offering 24 was found near the southeast corner of Structure 29 and was the most unusual offering found at Quelepa. A stone slab measuring was placed on top of three U-shaped stone yokes laid out in an interlaced pattern, together two carved \"palmas\" and a sculpted \"hacha\". The larger \"palma\" measured and was sculpted to represent a seated deity, probably Ehecatl, the god of wind. The smaller \"palma\" measured and represents a feathered serpent. The \"palmas\" have been dated stylistically to the Late Classic and show affinities with \"palmas\" from Veracruz on the Gulf coast of Mexico. All these items are associated with the Mesoamerican ballgame.\n\nThe East Group consists of structures clustered close to the edges of enormous artificial terraces. These terraces rise successively to the north as they get further from the river until the highest rests against the base of a range of hills. The massive terraces in the group provided a level base for the construction of further architecture. The terraces were faced with cut stone slabs laid horizontally.\n\nMost of the structures in the group are aligned north-south, although a few are clustered in arranged groups. The two main structures at Quelepa are found in the East Group. They were step pyramids, distinguished from those normally built in Mesoamerica by having access ramps instead of stairways. Structure 3 is the larger of the two main buildings and Structure 4 is the smaller. Both buildings appear to have been abandoned in the mid-7th century AD. The two pyramids faced south towards the edge of their supporting terrace, one of the largest terraces at the site, and were accessed via Ramps 1 and 2 that climbed the terrace edge and were directly aligned with the access ramps of Structures 3 and 4 respectively. Both ramps were paved with massive slabs and rose at an angle of 13°. The terrace and the ramps were faced with large volcanic tuff blocks similar to, but larger than, those used to build the base of Structure 3. The terrace facade measured approximately high.\n\nRamp 1 extended from the edge of the terrace, at the lower (southern) end it measured wide, it narrowed as it rose and measured wide where it met the terrace in front of the access ramp of Structure 3.\n\nRamp 2 was long and got wider as it rose. At the lower southern end it measured wide, widening to at the top. Ramp 2 is directly aligned with the access ramp of Structure 4. Three offerings were excavated from the base of Ramp 2. Offerings 20 and 21 were close to each other and each consisted of an inverted ceramic vessel placed over another vessel. Offering 18 was northwest of the base of the ramp and contained two small ceramic bowls, one inverted over the other. All the ceramics from these offering belong to the Shila ceramic complex dated to the Early Classic.\n\nStructure 3 is the largest structure at Quelepa. It is situated to the east of the smaller pyramid Structure 4, on the third terrace rising northwards from the river. Both the terrace upon which it stands and the structure itself were faced with large, finely cut stone blocks. Structure 3 was built somewhat after Structure 4, which was already in use during its construction. Considerable effort was made to artificially level the volcanic tuff surface of the terrace before construction began. The pyramid probably had eight stepped levels, with the lowest measuring and the highest measuring approximately . It is not aligned precisely with Structure 3, being oriented 5° east of north, a 10° variance from the earlier structure. The lower levels of the pyramid measured between high, the fourth level was higher, measuring . The lower levels had a horizontal depth of between , the upper levels of approximately . The front (south) face of the pyramid was not straight, the angles of the southern corners were slightly greater than 90° with the facade of the pyramid extending out slightly to meet the access ramp. The excavator concluded that this was to create the illusion that the building was larger than its actual size. The pyramidal base originally stood between high. The access ramp was wide and originally faced in stone, as uncovered during the 1949 excavations by Pedro Armillas. However, after the excavations, the owners of the Hacienda La Obrajuelo stripped the stone facing to be reused as construction material in San Miguel. The surviving remains of the ramp project from the front of the pyramid, ending from the edge of the supporting terrace. The ramp had a total length of approximately from base to summit and an initial incline of 18.5° that increased to 28° at the upper levels. The south face of Structure 3, including the access ramp, is badly eroded with the damage having been accelerated by the original excavations at the site. Structure 3 was built on top of an earlier structure that had been deliberately destroyed to make way for the new building. Structure 3-sub is estimated to have been high. Construction of the final structure is estimated to have begun around AD 500.\n\nThe tuff blocks used to dress the lower levels of the structure measure up to by and weigh over a ton, during excavations they were unable to be moved by ten men without mechanical aid. The upper levels of the pyramid used smaller blocks that were able to be carried by a single person. The walls of the pyramid were probably coated in plaster and the upper surfaces were paved. Pieces of burnt wattle and daub were found scattered all over the surface, sides and base of Structure 3, the remains of a perishable structure that once stood on top of the pyramid.\n\nAt least 3 offerings were buried under the floor of the summit of the pyramid. Offering 2 included a large stone disc placed upon a large cylindrical jade bead. Offering 3 included ceramics with a large grey-green river pebble placed on top. Offering 4 contained only an inverted polychrome bowl. A large offering was buried under the upper part of the ramp and was excavated by Pedro Armillas, the excavated artefacts passed into private ownership and their location are now unknown. The Offering included two large stone discs similar to that uncovered in Offering 2. Upon each disc was placed a four-legged ceramic vessel and underneath each disc were three stone balls measuring between and placed in a triangle. Also underneath each stone disc was a large tubular jade bead. This offering also contained a ceramic vessel inverted upon another with charcoal between the two, and a large vessel inverted over a bowl that contained five jadeite beads and a nephrite \"hacha\", together with traces of a red pigment, probably cinnabar. A further bowl contained a small piece of charcoal.\n\nStructure 4 is the smaller of the two pyramids, it is also the earlier of the two buildings. It dates to the Early Classic period. The pyramid base is on the edge of the third terrace rising from the river and is near the centre of the East Group. The structure measures and was aligned just under 5° west of north. The pyramid probably only had two levels, the upper level being set back a little rather than centred and measuring . The lower level measured high and the upper is estimated to have measured high originally but was somewhat reduced. The total height of the pyramidal platform was about . Access to the top of the pyramid was via a south-facing ramp that measured long with the lower end extending south of the pyramid base. The ramp was wide and rose at an estimated angle of 27°. Excavations revealed that the ramp was built of compacted clay and that the pyramid was packed with unworked stones. Both were built simultaneously. Structure 4 was faced with rough volcanic tuff blocks that varied considerably in size, cemented with mud. The blocks were covered in a coating of mortar that varied between thick and that may originally have been painted although no evidence was found to prove this. Around the base of the pyramid were found large amounts of burnt wattle and daub that can only have originated with the burning of a perishable superstructure on top of the pyramidal platform. The structure contained seven caches, among the offerings were Early Classic ceramic vessels, jade beads and an onyx bowl.\n\nAt the western edge of the East Group is a large rectangular platform supporting architectural remains. The platform was once almost entirely enclosed by walls, leading to its description as a fortress, although the walls are now badly eroded. Structure 9 is located at the southern edge of the platform.\n\nThe Jaguar Altar is a huge monolithic monument that measures by high and dates to the Late Preclassic, it has a face sculpted on one side in the style of Cara Sucia and that has affinities with the sculptural styles of Kaminaljuyu in Guatemala and Izapa in southern Mexico. The upper face of the altar has a deep square hollow that measures . All four sides of the altar bear relief sculptures. The altar was removed from the site after Quelepa was excavated by E. Wyllys Andrews and is now in the Museo Nacional de Antropología Dr. David J. Guzmán in San Salvador. It was found north-northwest of Structure 29 and northeast of the ballcourt. It had been placed near the edge of a high terrace. When excavated the area around and under it had already been explored by looters. It is not known if the altar was found in its original location or if it had been moved there, one corner of the altar had been broken off and archaeologists were unable to locate the missing fragment, suggesting that it had been broken while being moved.\n\nAltar 2 was found upon Structure 9 in this group. It measures by high and was removed to the Museo Nacional de Antropología. The altar is roughly circular with a square hollow carved out of the upper face.\n\nAltar 3 is a fragment that was found in 1970 a few metres east of Structure 36 in the West Group.\n"}
{"id": "27529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27529", "title": "September", "text": "September\n\nSeptember is the ninth month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars, the third of four months to have a length of 30 days, and the fourth of five months to have a length of less than 31 days. In the Northern Hemisphere September is the seasonal equivalent of March in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nIn the Northern hemisphere, the beginning of the meteorological autumn is on 1 September. In the Southern hemisphere, the beginning of the meteorological spring is on 1 September.　\n\nSeptember marks the beginning of the ecclesiastical year in the Eastern Orthodox Church. It is the start of the academic year in many countries, in which children go back to school after the summer break, sometimes on the first day of the month.\n\nSeptember (from Latin \"septem\", \"seven\") was originally the seventh of ten months on the oldest known Roman calendar, with March (Latin \"Martius\") the first month of the year until perhaps as late as 153 BC. After the calendar reform that added January and February to the beginning of the year, September became the ninth month, but retained its name. It had 29 days until the Julian reform, which added a day.\n\nAncient Roman observances for September include Ludi Romani, originally celebrated from September 12 to September 14, later extended to September 5 to September 19. In the 1st century BC, an extra day was added in honor of the deified Julius Caesar on 4 September. Epulum Jovis was held on September 13. Ludi Triumphales was held from September 18–22. The Septimontium was celebrated in September, and on December 11 on later calendars. These dates do not correspond to the modern Gregorian calendar. In 1752, the British Empire adopted the Gregorian calendar. In the British Empire that year, September 2 was immediately followed by September 14.\n\nSeptember was called \"harvest month\" in Charlemagne's calendar. September corresponds partly to the Fructidor and partly to the Vendémiaire of the first French republic.\nOn Usenet, it is said that September 1993 (Eternal September) never ended. September is called \"Herbstmonat\", harvest month, in Switzerland. The Anglo-Saxons called the month \"Gerstmonath\", barley month, that crop being then usually harvested.\n\nMeteor showers that occur in September include the Aurigids, the Delta Aurigids which occur from mid-September to early October, the Southern Taurids, which occur from September 10 to November 20, and the Andromedids which occur from September 25 – December 25.\n\nThe September equinox takes place in this month, and certain observances are organized around it. It is the Autumn equinox in the Northern Hemisphere, and the Vernal Equinox in the Southern Hemisphere. The dates can vary from 21 September to 24 September (in UTC).\n\nSeptember is mostly in the sixth month of the astrological calendar (and the first part of the seventh), which begins at the end of March/Mars/Aries.\n\n\n\"This list does not necessarily imply either official status or general observance.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9077707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9077707", "title": "Terrorism in Egypt", "text": "Terrorism in Egypt\n\nTargets of terrorism in Egypt have included government officials, police, tourists and the Christian minority. Many attacks have been linked to Islamic extremism, and terrorism increased in the 1990s when the Islamist movement al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya targeted high-level political leaders and killed hundreds in its pursuit of implementing traditional Sharia law in Egypt.\n\nAyman Al-Zawahiri, an Egyptian doctor and leader of Egyptian Islamic Jihad group, is believed to be behind the operations of al Qaeda. Four out of 30 people on the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation \"most wanted\" terrorist list are Egyptian.\n\nIn 1943 the Islamist group Muslim Brotherhood is thought to have established \"a `secret apparatus`\" i.e. \"a separate organization for paramilitary activity under the direct authority\" the Brethren's head, Sheikh Hassan al-Banna.\" The Brotherhood were a very large and active organization at that time. In 1948 the group is thought to have assassinated appellate judge Ahmad Khazendar in retaliation for his passing a \"severe sentence\" against another member of the Brotherhood.\n\nAfter the 1948 victory of the Jewish state of Israel over Muslim Arab armies the group is believed to have set fire to homes of Jews in Cairo in June 1948 in retaliation. In July two large department stores in Cairo owned by Jews were also burned. A couple of months later police captured documents and plans of the `secret apparatus. 32 of its leaders were arrested and its offices were raided. and shortly thereafter Prime Minister Mahmud Fami Naqrashi ordered the dissolution of the Brotherhood.\n\nOn 28 December 1948, Prime Minister Mahmoud an-Nukrashi Pasha was shot and assassinated by Abdel Meguid Ahmed Hassan, a veterinary student and member of the Brotherhood. The country was shocked and traditionalist clergy condemned the act. The Grand Mufti, Imam of Azhar mosque and the Council of Ulema all condemned the perpetrators as kuffar.\n\nLess than two months later the head of the Brethren (Hasan al-Banna) was himself victim of an assassination, the perpetrators thought to be supporters of the murdered premier.\n\nAfter a nationalist military coup led by Gamal Abdel Nasser overthrew the Egyptian monarchy, the Brotherhood were very disappointed to find the officers were secular in orientation and the Brotherhood did not gain influence. On 26 October 1954 a member of the brotherhood attempted to assassinate President Nasser and a general suppression of the Brotherhood followed, including imprisonment of thousands of members and the execution of six of its most prominent leaders.\n\nA covert operation under the direction of Israeli military intelligence with the intent to destabilize the Nasser government in the summer of 1954 through terrorist bombings of Egyptian, American and British government facilities was unsuccessful and the Israeli trained Egyptian Jewish operatives who planted the bombs were all captured, although all of their Israeli handlers escaped. The Lavon Affair, so named because Israeli Defense Minister Pinhas Lavon was later implicated and forced to resign, was a false flag operation with evidence planted at the bomb sites implicating the Muslim Brotherhood.\n\nIn the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s, terrorist attacks in Egypt became more numerous and severe, and began to target Christian Copts and foreign tourists as well as government officials. This trend surprised some foreigners who thought of Egypt as a country that \"embraced\" foreigners \"with suffocating affection\" and preferred a \"tolerant brand of Islam\". Some scholars and authors have credited Islamist writer Sayyid Qutb as the inspiration for the new wave of attacks.\n\nQutb, who had been executed in 1967 after another purported plot to assassinate of Abdel Nasser, was author of \"Ma'alim fi al-Tariq\" (Milestones), a manifesto for armed jihad in the advance of Islam to bring about \"the kingdom of God on earth\" and to eliminate \"the kingdom of man\", sometimes referred to as Qutbism. His book has been called \"one of the most influential works in Arabic of the last half century\". It became a best seller, went through many editions and strongly influenced Islamists in prison in Egypt.\n\nOn 18 April 1974, 100 members of the Islamic Liberation Organization (or Shabab Muhammad Group) stormed the armory of the Military Technical College in Cairo, seizing weapons and vehicles. Led by Salih Sirriya they hoped to kill President Anwar El Sadat and other top Egyptian officials — who were attending an official event nearby in the Arab Socialist Building — seize radio and television buildings (also nearby) and announce the birth of an Islamic State under the leadership of Hizb ut-Tahrir. 11 were killed and 27 wounded in the attempt as security forces were able to intercept conspirators before they left the academy. 95 ILO members are arrested and tried. 32 were convicted. Two were executed.\n\nOn 3 July 1977, a group known to the public as \"Takfir wal-Hijra\" (excommunication and exile), kidnapped former Egyptian government minister Muhammad al-Dhahabi. The group was led by a self-taught Islamic preacher Shukri Mustafa, and called themselves \"Jama'at al-Muslimin\". Among their demands in exchange for al-Dhahabi's release were the release of 60 of Takfir wal-Hijra members from jail, public apologies from the press for negative stories about the group, the publication of a book by Mustafa, and 200,000 Egyptian pounds in cash. Instead of complying, the press publicized \"a long list of offenses and crimes attributed to the group.\" Four days after the kidnapping, al-Dhahabi's body was found. The murder provoked indignation among the Egyptian public and extensive police raids led to the arrests of 410 of the group's members.\n\nSalvation from Hell sought to establish an Islamic state using force. The Egyptian government broke off ties with Iran following allegations that Iran funded the group. Yasser Al Borhamy was detained for a month in 1987 due to his alleged connection with the assassination attempt against interior minister Hassan Abu Basha. The group was also responsible for an assassination attempt on former interior minister Nabawi Ismail.\n\nIn spring of 1981, Sheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman agreed to become the mufti of the shura (council) of underground Egyptian group Tanzim al-Jihad, the forerunner of Egyptian Islamic Jihad and al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya. He issued a fatwa sanctioning \"the robbery and killing of Copts in furtherance of the jihad\".\n\nBy 1981 President Anwar Sadat had become unpopular among Egyptians and enraged Islamists by signing a peace treaty with Israel. On 6 October 1981, Sadat and six diplomats were assassinated while observing a military parade commemorating the eighth anniversary of the October 1973 War. Lieutenant Colonel Khalid Islambouli and two other members of the Tanzim al-Jihad movement fired machine guns and threw grenades into the reviewing stand.\n\nIn conjunction with the assassination of Sadat, Tanzim al-Jihad began an insurrection in Asyut in Upper Egypt. Rebels took control of the city for a few days on 8 October 1981 before paratroopers from Cairo restored government control. 68 policemen and soldiers were killed in the fighting, but sentences of arrested militants were relatively light, with most of them serving only three years in prison.\n\nThe Ras Burqa massacre was a shooting attack in October 1985 on Israeli vacationers in Ras Burqa, a beach resort area in the Sinai peninsula, in which seven Israelis were killed, including four children. Egypt refused to allow the victims to be treated by Israeli doctors or transferred to hospitals in Israel.\n\nOn 4 February 1990, a bus carrying Israeli tourists in Egypt was attacked. Nine Israelis were killed and 16 wounded. This was the fourth attack on Israeli tourists in Egypt since the signing of the peace treaty. The attack, claimed by members of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, left 11 people, including nine Israelis, dead and 17 others injured.\n\nIn November 1990 an Egyptian border guard crossed the border into Israel and opened fire with his AK-47 on vehicles on the Eilat-Kadesh Barnea road killing four people.\n\nTwelve of the people killed in the 2004 Sinai bombings were Israeli.\n\nThe Sinai bus crash in August 2006, in which 11 Arab Israelis were killed, may have been premeditated. Families of the victims allege that evidence collected, including the driver's derogatory and threatening remarks attacking them for being Arabs and Israeli, indicate they were targeted by a cell.\n\nThe violent Islamic insurgency during the 1990s targeted police and government officials but also civilians including tourists. Al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya was the primary perpetrator of the attacks, but Egyptian Islamic Jihad also was involved.\n\nIn October 1990, Egyptian Islamic Jihad attempted to assassinate Egyptian Interior Minister Abdel Halim Moussa, but ended up killing parliamentary Speaker Rifaat el-Mahgoub.\n\n1993 was a particularly severe year for terrorist attacks in Egypt. 1106 persons were killed or wounded. More police (120) than terrorists (111) were killed that year and \"several senior police officials and their bodyguards were shot dead in daylight ambushes.\"\n\nOn 18 April 1996, gunmen opened fire on Greek and Australian tourists who were about to board a bus outside Cairo's Europa Hotel, near the pyramids. Eighteen Greeks died, and 15 Greeks and an Egyptian were wounded.\n\nOn 18 September 1997, gunmen attacked tourist buses parked outside the Egyptian Museum in Tahrir Square, killing nine tourists, including seven Germans, and wounding 19.\n\nThe Luxor Massacre took place on 17 November 1997, at Deir el-Bahri, an archaeological site and tourist destination located across the River Nile from Luxor, Egypt. In the mid-morning attack, Islamic terrorists from Al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya (\"The Islamic Group\") and Talaa'al al-Fateh (Vanguards of Conquest), both of which are suspected of having ties to al-Qaeda massacred 62 tourists at the attraction. The six assailants, armed with automatic firearms and knives, were disguised as members of the security forces. They descended on the Temple of Hatshepsut at around 08:45 and massacred 62 people, their modus operandi including beheadings and disembowellings. The attackers then hijacked a bus, but armed Egyptian tourist police and military forces arrived soon afterwards and engaged in a gun battle with the six terrorists, who were later killed or committed suicide.\n\nThe 2004 Sinai bombings were three bomb attacks targeting tourist hotels in the Sinai Peninsula, Egypt, on 7 October 2004. The attacks killed 34 people and injured 171. The explosions occurred in the Hilton Taba in Taba and campsites used by Israelis in Ras al-Shitan. In the Taba attack, a truck drove into the lobby of the Taba Hilton and exploded, killing 31 people and wounding some 159 others. Ten floors of the hotel collapsed following the blast. Some south, at campsites at Ras al-Shitan, near Nuweiba, two more bombings happened. A car parked in front of a restaurant at the Moon Island resort exploded, killing three Israelis and a Bedouin. Twelve were wounded. Another blast happened moments later, targeting the Baddiyah camp, but did not harm anyone because the bomber had apparently been scared off from entering the campground by a guard.\n\nOf the dead, many were foreigners: 12 were from Israel, two from Italy, one from Russia, and one was an Israeli-American. The rest of the dead were believed to be Egyptian. According to the Egyptian government, the bombers were Palestinians who had tried to enter Israel to carry out attacks there but were unsuccessful. The mastermind, Iyad Saleh, recruited Egyptians and Bedouins to gain explosives to be used in the attacks.\n\nThe April 2005 attacks in Cairo were three related incidents that took place in Cairo on 7 April and 30 April 2005. Two incidents caused no loss of life other than those of the perpetrators and appear not to have been planned in advance; in the first attack, however, three bystanders were killed. Two groups claimed responsibility - the Mujahedeen of Egypt and the Abdullah Azzam Brigades. In its statement, the latter group said the attacks were in retaliation for the government's clampdown on dissidents in the wake of the Sinai Peninsula bombings. In the early hours of 1 May, security forces arrested some 225 individuals for questioning, mostly from the dead three's home villages and from the area where they lived in Shubra. Particularly keenly sought was Muhammad Yassin, the teenage brother of Ehab Yousri Yassin, whom the police described as the only remaining suspect in the bazaar bomb attack and a material witness to the shooting. Over the course of the weekend, it also emerged that all the attackers were relatives of Ashraf Said, a suspect in the 7 April bombing who was taken in for questioning and died in police custody on 29 April.\n\nThe 2005 Sharm el-Sheikh attacks were a series of bomb attacks on 23 July 2005, targeting the Egyptian resort city of Sharm el-Sheikh, located on the southern tip of the Sinai Peninsula. 88 people were killed and over 150 were wounded by the blasts. The bombing coincided with Egypt's Revolution Day, which commemorates Nasser's 1952 overthrow of King Farouk.\n\nThe attacks took place in the early morning hours, at a time when many tourists and locals were still out at restaurants, cafés and bars. The first bomb blast, at 01:15 local time (22:15 UTC), was reported in a market in downtown Sharm; shortly after, another was reported to have hit the Ghazala Gardens hotel in the Naama Bay area, a strip of beachfront hotels some 6 km from the town centre.\n\nWhile the official government toll a few days after the blast was 64, hospitals reported that 88 people had been killed in the bombings. The majority of dead and wounded casualties were Egyptians. Among those killed were 11 Britons, two Germans, one Czech, six Italians, one Israeli, and one American. Other casualties, dead and wounded, included foreign visitors from France, Kuwait, the Netherlands, Qatar, Russia, and Spain.\n\nA group calling itself the \"Abdullah Azzam Brigades\" (a reference to militant Islamist ideologue Abdullah Yusuf Azzam) was the first to claim responsibility for the attacks. On a website the group stated that \"holy warriors targeted the Ghazala Gardens hotel and the Old Market in Sharm el-Sheikh\" and claimed it has ties to Al-Qaeda. Additional claims were later made by two other groups calling themselves the \"Tawhid and Jihad Group in Egypt\" and \"Holy Warriors of Egypt\".\n\nThe Dahab bombings of 24 April 2006 were three bomb attacks on the Egyptian resort city of Dahab. The resorts are popular with Western tourists and Egyptians alike during the holiday season.\n\nAt about 19:15 local time on 24 April 2006 — a public holiday in celebration of Sham Al-Nasseim (Spring festival or Easter) — a series of bombs exploded in tourist areas of Dahab, a resort located on the Gulf of Aqaba coast of the Sinai Peninsula. One blast occurred in or near the Nelson restaurant, one near the Aladdin café (both being on both sides of the bridge), and one near the Ghazala market. At least 23 people were killed, mostly Egyptians, but including a German, Lebanese, Russian, Swiss, and a Hungarian. Around 80 people were wounded, including tourists from Australia, Denmark, France, Germany, Israel, South Korea, Lebanon, the Palestinian Territories, United Kingdom, and the United States.\n\nThe governor of South Sinai reported that the blasts might have been suicide attacks, but later Habib Adly, the interior minister of Egypt said that the devices were nail bombs set off by timers, and Egyptian TV also reported that the bombs were detonated remotely. Later investigations revealed the blasts were suicide attacks, set off by Bedouins, as in earlier attacks in the Sinai.\n\nThese explosions followed other bombings elsewhere in the Sinai Peninsula in previous years: in Sharm el-Sheikh on 23 July 2005 and in Taba on 6 October 2004.\n\nEgyptian security officials have stated that the attacks were the work of an Islamic terror organisation called Jama'at al-Tawhīd wal-Jihad (Monotheism and Jihad).\n\nIn September 2008, a group of eleven European tourists and eight Egyptians were kidnapped during an adventure safari to one of the remotest sites in Egypt deep in the Sahara desert and taken to Sudan. They were subsequently released unharmed.\n\nIn February 2009, the Khan el-Khalili bombing killed a French schoolgirl on a class trip in Cairo. It is often discussed as the first of the February 2009 Cairo terrorist attacks.\n\nIn April 2009, Egypt said it had uncovered a Hezbollah plot to attack tourist sites in the Sinai, causing tension with the Shia group from Lebanon.\n\nA car bomb explosion outside a church in the north Egyptian city of Alexandria killed at least 23 people and injured 43 following the evening service held at the church causing clashes between Coptic church members at the scene and the surrounding policemen. The attack saw governments around the world warn international travellers of the dangers of visiting the country, highlighting a likelihood of further terrorist attacks and possibility of kidnappings in Sinai.\n\nOn 23 January 2011, the Egyptian minister of interior Habib El Adli stated that Ahmed Lotfi Ibrahim Mohammed confessed to monitoring Christian and Jewish places of worship and sending pictures of the Qideseen church in Alexandria to the Army of Islam. He had confessed visited Gaza several times and was involved in planning the attack. British intelligence revealed that Muhammad Abd al-Hadi, leader of Jundullah, recruited Abdul Rahman Ahmed Ali who was told to park the car, which would be exploded by remote control.\n\nThe Sinai insurgency comprises a series of actions by Islamist militants in the Sinai peninsula, initiated in early 2011 as a fallout of the 2011 Egyptian Revolution. The actions of those Islamist elements, largely composed of tribesmen among the local Bedouins, drew a harsh response from interim Egyptian government since mid-2011 known as Operation Eagle. However, attacks against government and foreign facilities in the area continued into 2012, resulting in a massive crackdown by the new Egyptian government nicknamed Operation Sinai. In May 2013, following an abduction of Egyptian officers, violence in the Sinai surged once again. Following the 2013 Egyptian coup d'état, which resulted in the ousting of Mohamed Morsi, \"unprecedented clashes\" have occurred.\n\nOn 20 July 2014, at least 21 Egyptian soldiers were killed, and 4 injured in the Al-Wadi Al-Gedid attack when armed gunmen attacked a border checkpoint in the New Valley Governorate .\n\nSince 2013 transition, more than 500 persons were killed in a new wave of terrorism.\n\nOn 31 October 2015 Metrojet Flight 9268 mysteriously dropped out of the sky over the Sinai Peninsula killing all 224 passengers on board. It was an international chartered passenger flight, operated by Russian airline Kogalymavia (branded as Metrojet), following departure from Sharm el-Sheikh International Airport, Egypt, en route to Pulkovo Airport, Saint Petersburg, Russia. The aircraft, an Airbus A321-231, was carrying mostly tourists, there were 219 Russian, four Ukrainian, and one Belarusian. With its death toll of 224 people, the crash of Flight 9268 is the deadliest both in the history of Russian aviation and within Egyptian territory. It is also the deadliest air crash involving an aircraft from the Airbus A320 family, and the deadliest plane crash of 2015. ISIL has now several times claimed responsibility for the incident, and authorities from several countries now agree that the most plausible scenarios is bomb smuggled on board at the airport. Pictures are circulating on the internet showing internally caused ruptures. Many countries race to upgrade airport security measures over fears that ISIL plans more such attacks.\n\nOn 11 December 2016, an explosion occurred next to the Saint Mark's Coptic Orthodox Cathedral complex in Cairo, at the Church of Saints Peter & Paul. The cathedral is the seat of the Coptic Orthodox Pope, in Cairo's Abbasia district. The explosion killed as many as 29 people, mostly women and children, and injured many more. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant claimed responsibility. President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi declared a national period of mourning for three days.\n\nOn 8 January 2016, two suspected militants, armed with a melee weapon and a signal flare, allegedly arrived by sea and stormed the Bella Vista Hotel in the Red Sea city of Hurghada, stabbing two foreign tourists from Austria and one from Sweden. (Early reports incorrectly stated that the victims were one German and one Danish national.) One of the attackers, 21-year-old student Mohammed Hassan Mohammed Mahfouz, was killed by the security personnel. The other attacker was injured. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant claimed responsibility.\n\nOn 14 July 2017 Abdel-Rahman Shaaban, a former university student form the Nile Delta region, swam from a public beach to each of two resort hotel beaches at Hurghada on the Red Sea and stabbed five German and one Czech tourists, all women, killing two German women. One Czech tourist is in clinical death as of July 26 and died day later in a hospital in Cairo. The perpetrator shouted that the Egyptian hotel personnel who gave pursuit after that stabbings at the second beach should \"Stay back, I am not after Egyptians.\" Nevertheless, hotel personnel pursued and captured the attacker.\n\nOn Palm Sunday 9 April 2017, explosions occurred in St. George's Church in Tanta and St. Mark's Cathedral in Alexandria. 30 people were killed at St. George's and 17 at St. Mark's.\n\nOn May 26, 2017, masked gunmen opened fire on a convoy carrying Egyptian Coptic Christians in Minya, Egypt, killing at least 28 and injuring 26.\n\n"}
{"id": "25995519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25995519", "title": "The Chinese State in Ming Society", "text": "The Chinese State in Ming Society\n\nThe Chinese State in Ming Society is a history book which investigates the role of the state in China in the Ming dynasty (from 1368 to 1644 in the late Imperial Chinese era); the interface between the state and society, and the effect of the state on ordinary people.\n\nThe book is written by Timothy Brook, a distinguished Canadian historian who specializes in the study of China (Sinology).\n\n\"The Chinese State in Ming Society \" is set in the Ming dynasty, an era in which there was much \"commercial expansion and cultural innovation\". The book is an \"account of events and issues that engaged the members of local elites in Ming society and of the interface between these elites and the state,\" and the impact of the state on ordinary people in areas such as education, justice, the military and taxation.\n\nThe book consists of a reworking of eight \"heavily illustrated\" essays which Brook has written and published separately over the years, and is divided into four main sections (parts I to IV) with two of these essays to each part of the book. The parts are named \"Space\", \"Fields\", \"Books\" and \"Monasteries\", each of which \"represent important areas of intersection between the Ming state and society.\"\n\nBrook argues that the model of despotic government fails to account for the complex interactions between individuals, groups, communities, society and state in this period. Instead he proposes that by 1500 the Chinese had a remarkably developed system of governance, surpassing that of the European monarchs of the time, and that the developments were not the result of the isolated actions of the state, but rather of a complex interface and interaction, including local representatives of the state such as magistrates and local networks of the elite class of gentry. According to Ellen Soulliere in her review, Brook argues that \"society had the [enduring] ability to constrain, limit and sometimes redirect the authority of the state, without challenging its most basic claim to be the source of all legitimate authority.\"\n\nWriting in the \"New Zealand Journal of Asian Studies\", Ellen Soulliere describes the book as a \"detailed\", \"succinct\" and \"compelling\" account. In conclusion, she states that \"All in all, this is a fascinating and very valuable book that addresses major themes in Chinese history while greatly expanding our detailed knowledge of the issues that engaged people at the level of their local communities. It illuminates the conflicts and controversies that kept the state and society in a state of dynamic tension throughout the Ming period and beyond.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18715887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18715887", "title": "The Middle Passage (book)", "text": "The Middle Passage (book)\n\nThe Middle Passage: Impressions of Five Societies - British, French and Dutch in the West Indies and South America is a 1962 book-length essay / travelogue by V. S. Naipaul. It is his first book-length work of non-fiction. It has the sub-title \"The Caribbean Revisited\".\n\nThe book covers a year-long trip through Trinidad, British Guiana, Suriname, Martinique, and Jamaica in 1961. As well as giving his own impressions, Naipaul refers to the work of earlier travellers such as Patrick Leigh Fermor, who described a similar itinerary in \"The Traveller's Tree\" (1950). Naipaul addresses a range of topics including the legacy of slavery and colonialism, race relations, the roles of South Asian immigrants in the various countries, and differences in language, culture, and economics.\n"}
{"id": "27191535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27191535", "title": "Time Team (series 13)", "text": "Time Team (series 13)\n\nThis is a list of \"Time Team\" episodes from series 13.\n\nEpisode # refers to the air date order. The Time Team Specials are aired in between regular episodes, but are omitted from this list. Regular contributors on Time Team include: Tony Robinson (presenter); archaeologists Mick Aston, Phil Harding, Helen Geake, Francis Pryor, Neil Holbrook, Brigid Gallagher, Raksha Dave, Matt Williams; Guy de la Bedoyere (Roman historian); Jackie McKinley (bones expert); Victor Ambrus (illustrator); Stewart Ainsworth (landscape investigator); John Gater (geophysicist); Henry Chapman (surveyor); Paul Blinkhorn (pottery expert); Mark Corney (Roman specialist); Faye Simpson (finds expert); Raysan Al-Kubaisi (computer graphics).\n\n"}
{"id": "306424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306424", "title": "Tragic hero", "text": "Tragic hero\n\nA tragic hero is the protagonist of a tragedy in dramas. In his \"Poetics\", Aristotle records the descriptions of the tragic hero to the playwright and strictly defines the place that the tragic hero must play and the kind of man he must be. Aristotle based his observations on previous dramas. Many of the most famous instances of tragic heroes appear in Greek literature, most notably the works of Sophocles and Euripides. Others, like the contemporary tragedy of J.P. Carney, happen in the ordinary confinements of our own world, bespeaking to the hubris of the modern man in the age of technology and leg day.\n\nIn \"Poetics\", Aristotle suggests that the hero of a tragedy must evoke a sense of pity or fear within the audience, stating that “the change of fortune presented must not be the spectacle of a virtuous man brought from prosperity to adversity.\" In essence, the focus of the hero should not be the loss of his prosperity. He establishes the concept that pity is an emotion that must be elicited when, through his actions, the character receives undeserved misfortune, while the emotion of fear must be felt by the audience when they contemplate that such misfortune could possibly befall themselves in similar situations. Aristotle explains such change of fortune \"should be not from bad to good, but, reversely, from good to bad.” Such misfortune is visited upon the tragic hero \"not through vice or depravity but by some error of judgment.\" This error, or hamartia, refers to a flaw in the character of the hero, or a mistake made by the character.\n\nAn example of a mistake made by a tragic hero can be found in Sophocles' \"Oedipus Rex\". In the story, the character of Oedipus is given a prophecy that he will murder his own father and marry his own mother. Although he goes to great lengths to avoid fulfilling the prophecy, Oedipus learns that the life of a man he took, Laius, was actually that of his own father, and that the woman to which he is married, Jocasta, is actually his own mother.\n\nCreon of Sophocles' \"Antigone\" is another notable example of a tragic hero. Polyneices and his brother, Eteocles, were kings, and the former wanted more power, so he left and assembled an army from a neighboring city. They attacked and the two brothers killed each other. Through Creon's law forbidding the burial of Polyneices, Creon dooms his own family. Other examples provided by Aristotle include Thyestes.\n\nTherefore, the Aristotelian hero is characterized as virtuous but not \"eminently good,\" which suggests a noble or important personage who is upstanding and morally inclined while nonetheless subject to human error. Aristotle's tragic heroes are flawed individuals who commit, without evil intent, great wrongs or injuries that ultimately lead to their misfortune, often followed by tragic realization of the true nature of events that led to this destiny. This means the hero still must be – to some degree – morally grounded. The usual irony in Greek tragedy is that the hero is both extraordinarily capable and highly moral (in the Greek honor-culture sense of being duty-bound to moral expectations), and it is these exact, highly-admirable qualities that lead the hero into tragic circumstances. The tragic hero is snared by his or her own greatness: extraordinary competence, a righteous passion for duty, and (often) the arrogance associated with greatness (hubris).\n\nThe influence of the Aristotelian hero extends past classical Greek literary criticism. Greek theater had a direct and profound influence on Roman theater and formed the basis of Western theater that continues into the modern era, deeply influencing a wide variety of arts throughout the world, in diverse mediums such as literature, music, film, television and even video games. Many iconic characters featured in these genres follow the archetype of the tragic hero. Examples of such characters include Anakin Skywalker from George Lucas' \"Star Wars\" films, Okonkwo from Nigerian author Chinua Achebe's novel \"Things Fall Apart\", Arthas Menethil from the video game franchise \"Warcraft\", and Stannis Baratheon from George R. R. Martin's novel series \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" and the HBO television series adaptation \"Game of Thrones\". Some film historians regard Michael Corleone of \"The Godfather\" a tragic hero, although using traditional literary conventions, the character would more closely fit the role of villain, not tragic hero.\n\n"}
{"id": "15782182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15782182", "title": "Wendish question", "text": "Wendish question\n\nThe Wendish question ( Prekmurje dialect: \"Vendsko pítanje,\" or \"Vendiško pitanje\") in Hungarian Nationalist and Chauvinist politics concerns the origin and nomenclature of the Hungarian Slovenes.\n\nThe traditional Hungarian term for the Slovenes living in Hungary was \"Wend\" (). Many Slovenes in Hungary accepted this nomenclature, although in their dialect, they always referred to themselves as \"Slovenes\". In the last decades of the 19th century, and especially during the Horthy regime, the term \"Wend\" was used in order to emphasize the difference between the Slovenes of historic Hungary and other Slovenes.\n\nThe term Wend received popular use among the emigre community in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. This same community vigorously opposed the including of Prekmurje into the new Yugoslavia, lobbying the US Trianon negotiators against such inclusion.\n\nThe border between Hungary and Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was finally regulated by the Treaty of Trianon on June 4, 1920. The territory inhabited by Slovenes (the so-called \"Vendvidék\") was divided by the watershed of the two rivers Rába and Mura. The Mura region (Prekmurje), including the areas of Murska Sobota and Lendava, went to Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, while the Raba Region (Porabje) including nine communes around Szentgotthárd, became part of Hungary. After this separation, the two regions' economy, politics, culture and ethnicity developed independently.\n\nAfter the German invasion of Yugoslavia in 1941, Hungary annexed the regions lost in 1920 including Slovenian Prekmurje. It was expedient to argue that the inhabitants of the Prekmurje region were not Slovenes after all, helping to substantiate Hungary's claim to Prekmurje. Sándor Mikola, a well-known Hungarian physicist hailing from Slovenian Prekmurje, used his influence to publicize this view in his book \"A Vendség múltja és jelene\" (\"The past and present of the Wends\"). In the book he describes how the Wends were descended from the Celts, but assimilated into the surrounding Slavic population. This theory has no scientific foundation and is not linguistically substantiated in the language of this population.\n\nPrekmurje remained a part of SFR Yugoslavia and SR Slovenia when the Trianon boundaries were restored after World War II.\n\n"}
{"id": "252348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=252348", "title": "Whitley Stokes", "text": "Whitley Stokes\n\nWhitley Stokes, CSI, CIE, FBA (28 February 1830 – 13 April 1909) was an Irish lawyer and Celtic scholar.\n\nHe was a son of William Stokes (1804–1878), and a grandson of Whitley Stokes (1763–1845), each of whom was Regius Professor of Physic at the University of Dublin. His sister Margaret Stokes was a writer and archaeologist.\n\nHe was born at 5 Merrion Square, Dublin and educated at St Columba's College where he was taught Irish by Denis Coffey, author of a \"Primer of the Irish Language\". Through his father he came to know the Irish antiquaries Samuel Ferguson, Eugene O'Curry, John O'Donovan and George Petrie. He entered Trinity College, Dublin in 1846 and graduated with a BA in 1851. His friend and contemporary Rudolf Thomas Siegfried (1830–1863) became assistant librarian in Trinity College in 1855, and the college's first professor of Sanskrit in 1858. It is likely that Stokes learnt both Sanskrit and comparative philology from Siegfried, thus acquiring a skill-set rare among Celtic scholars in Ireland at the time.\n\nStokes qualified for the bar at Inner Temple. His instructors in the law were Arthur Cayley, Hugh McCalmont Hughes, and Thomas Chitty. Stokes became an English barrister on 17 November 1855, practicing in London before going to India in 1862, where he filled several official positions. In 1865 he married Mary Bazely by whom he had four sons and two daughters. One of his daughters, Maïve, compiled a book of \"Indian Fairy Tales\" in 1879 (she was 12 years old) based on stories told to her by her Indian \"ayahs\" and a man-servant. It also included some notes by Mrs. Mary Stokes. Mary died while the family was still living in India. In 1877, Stokes was appointed legal member of the viceroy's council, and he drafted the codes of civil and criminal procedure and did much other valuable work of the same nature. In 1879 he became president of the commission on Indian law. Nine books by Stokes on Celtic studies were published in India. He returned to settle permanently in London in 1881 and married Elizabeth Temple in 1884. In 1887 he was made a CSI, and two years later a CIE He was an original fellow of the British Academy, an honorary fellow of Jesus College, Oxford and foreign associate of the Institut de France.\n\nWhitley Stokes is perhaps most famous as a Celtic scholar, and in this field he worked both in India and in England. He studied Irish, Breton and Cornish texts. His chief interest in Irish was as a source of material for comparative philology. Despite his learning in Old Irish and Middle Irish, he never acquired Irish pronunciation and never mastered Modern Irish. In the hundred years since his death he has continued to be a central figure in Celtic scholarship. Many of his editions have not been superseded in that time and his total output in Celtic studies comes to over 15,000 pages. He was a correspondent and close friend of Kuno Meyer from 1881 onwards. With Meyer he established the journal \"Archiv für celtische Lexicographie\" and was the co-editor, with Ernst Windisch, of the \"Irische Texte\" series.\n\nIn 1862 he was awarded the Cunningham Gold Medal by the Royal Irish Academy.\n\nStokes died at his London home, 15 Grenville Place, Kensington, in 1909 and is buried in Paddington Old Cemetery. Willesden Lane, where his grave is marked by a Celtic cross. Another Celtic cross was erected as a memorial to him at St Fintan's, Sutton, Dublin. The Gaelic League paper \"An Claidheamh Soluis\" called Stokes \"the greatest of the Celtologists\" and expressed pride that an Irishman should have excelled in a field which was at that time dominated by continental scholars. In 1929 the Canadian scholar James F. Kenney described Stokes as \"the greatest scholar in philology that Ireland has produced, and the only one that may be ranked with the most famous of continental savants\".\n\nA conference entitled \"Ireland, India, London: The Tripartite Life Of Whitley Stokes\" took place at the University of Cambridge from 18–19 September 2009. The event was organised to mark the centenary of Stokes's death. A volume of essays based on the papers delivered at this conference, \"The tripartite life of Whitley Stokes (1830-1909)\",\nwas published by Four Courts Press in autumn 2011.\n\nIn 2010 Dáibhí Ó Cróinín published \"Whitley Stokes (1830-1909):the Lost Celtic Notebooks Rediscovered\", a volume based on the scholarship in Stokes's 150 notebooks which had been resting unnoticed at the University Library, Leipzig since 1919.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55011397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55011397", "title": "Ádám Anderle", "text": "Ádám Anderle\n\nÁdám Anderle (; February 25, 1943 – November 19, 2016) was a Hungarian historian, hispanist, full (university) professor, professor emeritus of Faculty of Arts, University of Szeged (SZTE). He was active in research of the relationship between Latin America and Hungary for decades. He was fluent in Hungarian and Spanish.\n\nHe took M. A. degrees at the Attila József University (JATE), Faculty of Arts in Hungarian and History in 1966.\n\nDuring his academic years he also learned Spanish language because he was interested in the history of Cuba, Latin America and Spain. Tibor Wittman raised Anderle's interest in the Hispanic world. \n\nÁdám Anderle received his dr. univ. (\"doctor universitatis\") degree in 1967.\n\nIn 1969 he became an educator and a research fellow in the Department of Medieval Universal History and History of Latin America, at the Faculty of Arts, JATE.\n\nHe took candidate (C.Sc.) of History degree in 1977 and was awarded Doctor of Science (D.Sc.) degree in History in 1988. \n\nIn 1977 he became an associate professor (docent, reader).\n\nHe was appointed to the head of the department, and he acted as a head from 1983 until 1992.\n\nIn 1989 he received the title of university (full) professor.\n\nIn 1993 he founded the Department of Hispanic Studies, and he headed it until 2008. \n\nFrom 1997 until 2013 he acted as a subprogram leader of Modern history in the Doctoral School of History at the University of Szeged, and he was a member of the Council of the Doctoral School of History and a VIP member of the doctoral school.\n\nIn 2013 the honorific title of professor emeritus was conferred upon him.\n\nHe was a notable and respected scientist both in Hungary and around the world and developed significant research and professional relationships.\n\nÁdám Anderle lectured as a visiting professor at several universities of Latin America: Santa María University in Caracas, National University of San Marcos in Lima, University of Havana in Cuba, and at the universities of Europe: University of Alcalá in Alcalá de Henares, Spain and University of Göttingen in Germany.\n\nHis working papers were issued in both national and international prestigious professional research scientific journals, and 20 books and 200 scientific articles were published.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
