{"id": "43678058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43678058", "title": "1978 Sikh–Nirankari clashes", "text": "1978 Sikh–Nirankari clashes\n\nA violent incident occurred between the Sant Nirankari Mission and traditional Sikhs on 13 April 1978 at Amritsar, Punjab, India. Sixteen people—thirteen traditional Sikhs and three Nirankari followers—were killed in the ensuing violence. Clashes occurred when some Akhand Kirtani Jatha and Damdami Taksal members led by Fauja Singh protested against and tried to stop a convention of Sant Nirankari Mission followers. Fauja attempted to behead the Nirankari chief but was killed by his bodyguard. This incident is considered to be a starting point in the events leading to Operation Blue Star and the 1980s insurgency in Punjab.\n\nNirankari, a movement within Sikhism, started in the 19th century. Their belief in a living guru as opposed to the scriptural guru Guru Granth Sahib resulted in their difference with traditional Sikhs. In 1929, a break-way faction Sant Nirankari was formed by Avtar Singh. Sant Nirankari also adopted many variations from Sikhs. They were further accused by Sikhs of criticizing Sikhism and its Gurus using texts such as \"Avtar Bani\" and \"Yug Purash\". These tensions lead to their clashes with Sikh organizations mainly Damdami Taksal and Akhand Kirtni Jatha at many places in Punjab.\n\nOn 13 April 1978, the day to celebrate the birth of Khalsa, a peaceful Sant Nirankari convention headed by their leader Gurbachan Singh was organized in Amritsar, with permission from the Akali state government. The practices of \"Sant Nirankaris\" sect of Nirankaris was considered as heretics by the orthodox Sikhism expounded by Bhindranwale. From Golden Temple premises, Bhindranwale delivered an angry sermon in which he declared that he would not allow this convention and would \"go there and cut them to pieces.\" A procession of about two hundred Sikhs led by Bhindranwale and Fauja Singh of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha left the Golden Temple, heading towards the Nirankari Convention. Fauja attempted to behead Nirankari chief Gurbachan Singh with his sword but was shot dead by Gurbachan's bodyguard, while Bhindranwale escaped. In the ensuing violence, several people were killed: two of Bhindranwale's followers, eleven members of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha and three Nirankaris. This event brought Bhindranwale to limelight in the media.\n\nA criminal case was filed against sixty two Nirankaris charged with the murder of 13 Sikhs by the Akali led government in Punjab. The case was heard in the neighbouring Haryana state, and all the accused were acquitted, on the basis that they acted in self-defence. The Punjab government Chief Minister Prakash Singh Badal decided not to appeal the decision. The case of Nirankaris received widespread support in the media and the orthodox Sikhs claimed this to be a conspiracy to defame the Sikh religion. Bhindranwale increased his rhetoric against the perceived enemies of Sikhs. A letter of authority was issued by Akal Takht to ostracize the Sant Nirankaris. A sentiment was created to justify extra judicial killings of the perceived enemies of Sikhism. The chief proponents of this attitude were the Babbar Khalsa founded by the widow, Bibi Amarjit Kaur of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha, whose husband Fauja Singh had been at the head of the march in Amritsar; the Damdami Taksal led by Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale who had also been in Amritsar on the day of the outrage; the Dal Khalsa, formed with the object of demanding a sovereign Sikh state; and the All India Sikh Students Federation, which was banned by the government.\n\nIn the subsequent years following this event, several murders took place in Punjab and the surrounding areas allegedly by Bhindranwale's group and the new Babbar Khalsa. The Babbar Khalsa activists took up residence in the Golden Temple, where they would retreat to, after committing \"acts of punishment\" on people against the orthodox Sikh tenets. Police did not entered The temple complex to avoid hurting the sentiments of Sikhs.\n\nOn 24 April 1980, The Nirankari head, Gurbachan was murdered. Bhindranwale took residence in Golden Temple to escape arrest when he was accused of the assassination of Nirankari Gurbachan Singh. Several of Bhindranwale's associates and relatives were arrested. The FIR named nearly twenty people involved in the murder, most of whom had ties to Bhindranwale. A member of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha, Ranjit Singh, surrendered and admitted to the assassination three years later, and was sentenced to serve thirteen years at the Tihar Jail in Delhi. Ranjit Singh later became head of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). Ranjit Singh spent 12 years in jail as an under-trial from 1984 to 1996. Several other members of Sant Nirankari Mission were also killed later. \n\nIn 1978, after the incident Akal Takht issued a Hukamnama expelling Nirankaris out of the Sikh community.\n\nGurudwara Shaheed-Ganj, Amritsar was raised in the memory of the 13 Sikhs killed in the clash.\n"}
{"id": "1301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1301", "title": "Abbess", "text": "Abbess\n\nIn Christianity, an abbess (Latin \"abbatissa\", feminine form of \"abbas,\" abbot) is the female superior of a community of nuns, which is often an abbey.\n\nIn the Catholic Church (both the Latin Church and Eastern Catholic), Eastern Orthodox, Coptic and Anglican abbeys, the mode of election, position, rights, and authority of an abbess correspond generally with those of an abbot. She must be at least 40 years old and have been a nun for 10 years. The age requirement in the Catholic Church has evolved over time, ranging from 30 to 60. The requirement of 10 years as a nun is only 8 in Catholicism. In the rare case of there not being a nun with the qualifications, the requirements may be lowered to 30 years of age and 5 of those in an \"upright manner\", as determined by the superior. A woman who is of illegitimate birth, is not a virgin, has undergone non-salutory public penance, is a widow, or is blind or deaf, is typically disqualified for the position, saving by permission of the Holy See. The office is elective, the choice being by the secret votes of the nuns belonging to the community. Like an abbot, after being confirmed in her office by the Holy See, an abbess is solemnly admitted to her office by a formal blessing, conferred by the bishop in whose territory the monastery is located, or by an abbot or another bishop with appropriate permission. Unlike the abbot, the abbess receives only the ring, the crosier, and a copy of the rule of the order. She does not receive a mitre as part of the ceremony. The abbess also traditionally adds a pectoral cross to the outside of her habit as a symbol of office, though she continues to wear a modified form of her religious habit or dress, as she is unordained—females cannot be ordained—and so does not vest or use choir dress in the liturgy. An abbess serves for life, except in Italy and some adjacent islands.\n\nAbbesses are, like abbots, major superiors according to canon law, the equivalents of abbots or bishops (the ordained male members of the church hierarchy who have, by right of their own office, executive jurisdiction over a building, diocesan territory, or a communal or non-communal group of persons—juridical entities under church law). They receive the vows of the nuns of the abbey; they may admit candidates to their order's novitiate; they may send them to study; and they may send them to do pastoral or missionary, or to work or assist—to the extent allowed by canon and civil law—in the administration and ministry of a parish or diocese (these activities could be inside or outside the community's territory). They have full authority in its administration. \n\nHowever, there are significant limitations. They may not administer the sacraments, whose celebration is reserved to bishops, priests, deacons (clerics), namely, those in Holy Orders. They may make provision for an ordained cleric to help train and to admit some of their members, if needed, as altar servers, extraordinary ministers of Holy Communion, or lectors—all ministries which are now open to the unordained. They may not serve as a witness to a marriage except by special rescript. They may not administer Penance (Reconciliation), Anointing of the Sick (Extreme Unction), or function as an ordained celebrant or concelebrant of the Mass (by virtue of their office and their training and institution, they may act, if the need arises, as altar servers, lectors, ushers, porters, or extraordinary ministers of Holy Communion, and if need be, the Host). They may preside over the Liturgy of the Hours which they are obliged to say with their community, speak on Scripture to their community, and give certain types of blessings not reserved to the clergy. On the other hand, they may not ordinarily preach a sermon or homily, nor read the Gospel during Mass. As they do not receive episcopal ordination in the Catholic, Orthodox and Oriental Churches, they do not possess the ability to ordain others, nor do they exercise the authority they do possess under canon law over any territories outside of their monastery and its territory (though non-cloistered, non-contemplative female religious members who are based in a convent or monastery but who participate in external affairs may assist as needed by the diocesan bishop and local secular clergy and laity, in certain pastoral ministries and administrative and non-administrative functions not requiring ordained ministry or status as a male cleric in those churches or programs). There are exigent circumstances, where due to Apostolical privilege, certain Abbesses have been granted rights and responsibilities above the normal, such as the Abbess of the Cistercian Monastery of the Abbey of Santa María la Real de Las Huelgas near Burgos, Spain. Also granted exceptional rights was the Abbess of the Cistercian order in Conversano Italy. She was granted the ability to appoint her own vicar-general, select and approve the confessors, along with the practice of receiving the public homage of her clergy. This practice continued until some of the duties were modified due to an appeal by the clergy to Rome. Finally in 1750, the public homage was abolished.\n\nHistorically, in some Celtic monasteries, abbesses presided over joint-houses of monks and nuns, the most famous example being Saint Brigid of Kildare's leadership in the founding of the monastery at Kildare in Ireland. This custom accompanied Celtic monastic missions to France, Spain, and even to Rome itself. In 1115, Robert, the founder of Fontevraud Abbey near Chinon and Saumur, France, committed the government of the whole order, men as well as women, to a female superior.\n\nIn Lutheran churches, the title of abbess (German \"Äbtissin\") has in some cases (e.g. ) survived to designate the heads of abbeys which since the Protestant Reformation have continued as monasteries or convents (German \"Stifte\"). These positions continued, merely changing from Catholic to Lutheran. The first to make this change was the Abbey of Quedlinburg, whose last Catholic Abbess died in 1514. These are collegiate foundations, which provide a home and an income for unmarried ladies, generally of noble birth, called canonesses (German \"Kanonissinen\") or more usually \"Stiftsdamen\" or \"Kapitularinnen\". The office of abbess is of considerable social dignity, and in the past, was sometimes filled by princesses of the reigning houses. Until the dissolution of Holy Roman Empire and mediatisation of smaller imperial fiefs by Napoleon, the evangelical Abbess of Quedlinburg was also per officio the head of that \"reichsunmittelbar\" state. The last such ruling abbess was Sofia Albertina, Princess of Sweden.\n\nIn the Hradčany of Prague is a Catholic institute whose mistress is titled an Abbess. It was founded in 1755 by the Empress Maria Theresa, and traditionally was responsible for the coronation of the Queen of Bohemia. The Abbess is required to be an Austrian Archduchess.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages abbesses were known to attempt usurpation of the spiritual power forbidden them. Attempts were made to bless, give penance, make the sign of the cross on the foreheads of men, even administer the sacrament. The pope has categorized these forays into the forbidden as \"unheard of, most indecorous, and highly preposterous,\" adding that \"these Abbesses had evidently overrated theor spiritual powers a trifle.\" The Roman Catholic Church has around 200 abbesses at present. The oldest women's abbey in Germany being St. Marienthal Abbey of Cistercian nuns, near Ostritz, established during the early 13th-century.\n\nOn September 10, 2018, the priory of Our Lady of Ephesus in Gower, MO was elevated to an Abbey and the prioress, Mother Cecilia Snell, OSB, was consecrated as the first abbess. The Benedictines of Mary Queen of Apostles are a traditional order of Benedictines nuns whose monastery is in the Diocese of Kansas City-St. Joseph.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34075849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34075849", "title": "Ajila", "text": "Ajila\n\nAjila is a common surname of the Bunt people, the landed gentry of Tulu Nadu region in the south west of India. It is also the name of the Jain Bunt Dynasty who ruled the principality of Venur for several centuries(1154 to 1786 C.E). The most notable of the Ajila kings was Veera Timmannarasa Ajila IV who erected the monolith of Bahubali in 1604 C.E.The descendants of the Ajila rulers still survive and inhabit the Aladangady Aramane (Ajila Palace).The succession to the Ajila throne was as per the Bunt custom of matrilineal inheritance (Aliyasantana). The present head of the Ajila dynasty is Padmaprasad Ajila,fourteenth in line through the matrilineal lineage of Veera Timmannarasa Ajila IV. An inscription in Old Kannada by Veera Timmannarasa Ajila IV unearthed in 2006 reads \n\n"}
{"id": "12271782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12271782", "title": "American Jewish Press Association", "text": "American Jewish Press Association\n\nThe American Jewish Press Association (AJPA) is an organization of Jewish newspapers, magazines, journalists, and affiliated organizations in North America. It was established in 1944 and is based in Phoenix, Arizona. Back then the Jewish Press was referred to as 'Anglo-Jewish press' and some publishers and editors were not comfortable with this tag. This organization was the brainchild of Gabriel Cohen, editor and publisher of the National Jewish Post & Opinion. \n\nThe AJPA gives the annual Rockower Awards. \"Billed by some as the 'Jewish Pulitzers,\" the Rockower Awards were started in 1980 to provide incentive to Jewish media to improve their publications and to promote quality Jewish journalism.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "44887893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44887893", "title": "Balwant Singh Nandgarh", "text": "Balwant Singh Nandgarh\n\nBalwant Singh Nandgarh is a Sikh politician and Jathedar of Takht Sri Damdama Sahib, one of five seats of temporal authority of Sikhism.\n\nBalwant Singh was a farmer in Nandgarh, Bathinda, Punjab, India. In 1997, he became a member of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). According to Gurcharan Singh Tohra, Nandgarh was given ticket to contest elections for SGPC because he was the only applicant to introduce himself as \"Khalsa\". In 2003, he was made the Jathedar of Takht Sri Damdama Sahib. In 2007, Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, head of Dera Sacha Sauda had appeared in an advertisement dressed up as Guru Gobind Singh, 10th Sikh guru. This resulted in a widespread clashes between Dera followers and Sikhs. Nandgarh formed a Sikh group called Ek Noor Khalsa Fauj to stop the religious gathering of Dera Sacha Sauda.\n\nNandgarh has supported the 2003 version of Nanakshahi calendar, a solar calendar created by Pal Singh Purewal to determine the dates for various Sikh events. In 2003, this calendar was adopted by SGPC, replacing the lunar Bikrami calendar. However, the Nanakshahi calendar created some confusion, as the dates of some festivals such as Holi and Diwali, and birthdays of Guru Nanak and Guru Gobind Singh differed from the corresponding dates in the Bikrami calendar. In 2009, SGPC amended the calendar and fixed the dates of these festivals according to the Bikirami calendar. In 2014–15, according to the amended Nanakshahi calendar, Guru Gobind Singh's birthday fell on 28 December 2014, which overlaps with the martyrdom day of his younger sons. To resolve this, SGPC announced 7 January 2015 as the new date for celebrating Guru Gobind Singh's birthday. Later, SGPC backtracked and re-announced 28 December 2014 as the date for the event. As per the 2003 Nanakshahi calendar, the date of this event was 5 January. Nandgarh asked people to celebrate the event on 5 January. He was supported by various other Sikh organizations which demanded that the 2003 Nanakshahi calendar should be re-implemented.\n\nNandgarh's support was seen as going against the SGPC and the ruling party of Punjab Shiromani Akali Dal. In 2011, the Nanakshahi calendar had been released by Ek Noor Khalsa Fauj under the patronage of Nandgarh. On 17 January 2015, Nandgarh was removed from the office of Jathedar by the SGPC. According to SGPC president Avtar Singh Makkar, Nandgarh had violated the Sikh Rehat Maryada (religious code of conducts) and disobeyed certain decisions made by SGPC. Several Sikh organizations such as Dal Khalsa, Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee criticized the manner in which Nandgarh was removed from his post.\n"}
{"id": "9225597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9225597", "title": "Benno Elkan", "text": "Benno Elkan\n\nBenno Elkan OBE (2 December 1877, Dortmund, Westphalia - 10 January 1960, London) was a German-born British sculptor and medallist. His work includes the big Menora standing in front of the Knesset in Jerusalem and also numerous monuments, busts and medals in Germany and England. \nBenno Elkan was born in Dortmund, Germany. He fled Germany in 1933 after the rise of the Nazis. He was married to Hedwig Einstein, sister of Carl Einstein and a concert pianist in her own right. Together they had two children: Ursula and Wolf, both of whom emigrated to the United States. \n\nElkan died in London and is buried in Willesden, England.\n\n\nHe studied and worked in Paris, Rome and Frankfurt am Main, and moved to London following the rise of the Nazis in Germany in 1933. His works included tombs, busts, medals and monuments. He was an exhibitor in International Exhibitions in Germany, France, Italy, and England; his works are in many museums in Europe.\n\nElkan created the first statue in Britain of Sir Walter Raleigh, and designed Frankfurt’s Great War Memorial, incorporating mourning mothers as a symbol of loss in World War I. The memorial was removed by the Nazis in 1933 and re-erected in 1946.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5267124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5267124", "title": "Birutė", "text": "Birutė\n\nBirutė (died 1382) was the second wife of Kęstutis, Grand Duke of Lithuania, and mother of Vytautas the Great. There is very little known about Birutė's life, but after her death a strong cult developed among Lithuanians, especially in Samogitia. \n\nProbably she was born near Palanga to a Samogitian or Curonian magnate family. The story of her marriage to Kęstutis became a romantic legend in Lithuania. Chronicles mention that Birutė was a priestess () and served the Pagan gods by guarding the sacred fire. When Kęstutis heard of her beauty, he visited the shire and asked her to marry him. She refused because she had promised the gods to guard her virginity until her death. Kęstutis then took her by force to Trakai and threw a big wedding. She and Kęstutis had three sons and three daughters. Vytautas, their first son, was born around 1350. This suggests that the marriage took place in 1349 or a bit earlier.\n\nHistorian S.C. Rowell suggests that a marriage to a pagan duchess rather than to an Orthodox duchess from Slavic lands helped to win pagan Lithuanian support after Kęstutis and his brother Algirdas deposed Jaunutis in 1345.\n\nThe circumstances surrounding Birutė's death are not entirely clear. Between 1381 and 1382 her husband Kęstutis waged a war against his nephew Jogaila who became the Grand Duke of Lithuania and signed a treaty with the Teutonic Knights against Kęstutis. Her husband was arrested and transported to the castle at Kreva. A week later Kęstutis was dead and some chronicles hint that he was murdered. In spite of the circumstances being unclear, one chronicle written by the Teutonic Knights briefly mentioned that Birutė was, for reasons of safety, moved to Brest, Belarus, where she was drowned in fall of 1382 (likely in response to Vytautas escape from Kreva). However, there are no other sources that confirm or refute this claim. Thirty-five years later, a Samogitian delegation to the Council of Constance denied her murder, and another legend claimed that Birutė returned to the shrine where she had served earlier in Palanga, and resumed serving the gods until her death there circa 1389.\n\nLegend has it that she was buried in Palanga at the bottom of the hill named in her honor.\n\nA cult around Birutė developed and remained strong long after her death. She was considered to be a goddess or the pagan equivalent of a saint by the local people. In 1989 archaeologists found evidence of a pagan sanctuary and observatory, which had existed on the top of Birutė Hill in the late 14th or early 15th century. It was likely built in Birutė's honor. There are many accounts of people praying to Birutė, asking her to bestow good health or fortune upon them. To discourage people from worshiping pagan gods and Birutė's grave, a chapel for Saint George was built on the top of the hill in 1506. In 1869 the chapel was re-built and survives to this day. It is a popular destination for tourists.\n\nBirutė Hill is the highest dune at the seaside resort of Palanga on the Baltic Seashore, and now a part of the Palanga Botanical Garden. Archaeological research shows that there was a village at the bottom of the hill in the 10th century. In the 13th century, when the Teutonic Knights and Livonian Order invaded, the villagers built a defense system with a tower. After an initial defeat, the system was rebuilt and made even stronger; it now had two towers and a wall surrounded the top of the hill. However, when this was burned in the second half of the 14th century, a pagan shrine and observatory was built in its place instead.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "6172743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6172743", "title": "Bishop of Glasgow and Galloway", "text": "Bishop of Glasgow and Galloway\n\nThe Bishop of Glasgow and Galloway is the ordinary of the Scottish Episcopal Diocese of Glasgow and Galloway.\n\nWhen the dioceses of Glasgow and Galloway were combined in 1837, Michael Russell, the then incumbent of Leith became the first bishop of the combined see. Initially there were only three or four congregations in the south west of Scotland.\n\nUntil the establishment of St Mary's Church in Great Western Road as the cathedral of the diocese, the bishops were also incumbents of individual congregations - Michael Russell at Leith; Walter Trower at St Mary's Church in Glasgow; and William Wilson at Ayr.\n\nThe episcopate of William Harrison was specially notable for the exceptional expansion of the church in the south west of Scotland.\n\nBishop Reid was translated to the Diocese of Saint Andrews, Dunkeld and Dunblane. His successor, Bishop Darbyshire, was also translated becoming the Archbishop of Cape Town in the Church of the Province of Southern Africa (now the Anglican Church of Southern Africa).\n\nBishop Rawcliffe was already a bishop when he came to the diocese having previously been consecrated at the first Bishop of the New Hebrides in the Church of the Province of Melanesia between 1974 and 1980.\n\nThe bishops of the combined See of Glasgow and Galloway are listed on two plaques on the south wall of the chancel in St Mary's Cathedral. As the first plaque was filled recording the episcopate of Bishop Rawcliffe, a second plaque was installed following the enthronement of Bishop Taylor.\n\nA gallery of portraits of the past bishops is displayed in the sacristy corridor in the cathedral.\n\n"}
{"id": "49551788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49551788", "title": "Castle of Burgos", "text": "Castle of Burgos\n\nThe Castle of Burgos was a castle and alcázar, located in the city of Burgos, in the hill of San Miguel to 75 m above the city and to 981 meters above the sea. This hill was the subject of archaeological surveys by General Centeno in the years 1925 and 1926 trying to find Napoleonic military files when the French in their retreat blew up the fortress. According to this general the origin of the castle attributes to the Visigoths, and its oldest parts, to the Romans.\n\nAs was increasing importance of the defensive emplacement, it gave way to a castle and more complex defensive elements.\n\nDuring the French occupation, the June 15, 1813, the French army decided to leave the Castle of Burgos, and they destroyed it with explosives. The explosion resulted in the almost total destruction of all the castle grounds. At present remains its ruins.\n\nIn the mid-1980s it conducted a complex archaeological study in which it was established that the signs of oldest human populations both in the hills del Depósito, de San Miguel and del Castillo, form an ensembles of the first order. So have appeared traces of prehistoric human groups both Beaker culture, and the first Iron Age with attribution Soto de Medinilla. In the hill of the castle was located the oldest town on record in the city of Burgos dated around 2000 B.C..\n\nIn the early 860 AD the Muslim historian Ibn Idhari mentions that an expedition defeated to \"Gundisalvo\" Lord of Burdgia.\n\nOliver Copons believes that the great fortress was already built back in 865 when Muslims amounted to the Castilian plateau led by Al-Mondzir obliterating. Twenty years later the Asturian monarch Alfonso III gives order to Count Diego Rodríguez Porcelos to repopulate and re-fortifying Burgos because had credited his military virtues in the Battle of Briviesca and in defend Pancorbo.\n\nThe growing importance of the city requires a great fortress, whose perimeter is well documented. Medieval travelers unanimously tell the feeling of strength and security that offered. Probably during the reign of Alfonso VIII of Castile occurs the first great transformation, participating experts builders to the Mudéjar taste of the time. The Castilian king Henry IV makes the second reform, mainly for beautification, in order to transform it into palace: halls, chambers and chapel.\n\nNever were good friends the city and the castle, but it endured for centuries, until the June 13 of 1813 succumbed the fortress during the Napoleonic wars after a bitter resistance in the second assault by the Anglo-Portuguese troops of Duke of Wellington.\n\nFerdinand the Catholic sieged it in the war against Joanna la Beltraneja. The siege is initiated in August 1474 and lasts until January 1476. During this period were fought some of the fiercest fighting in its history, being one of the goals off the water to the besieged, that the minelayers worked with the dual purpose of intercepting the well and blow the walls, as noted by Luciano Serrano.\n\nThe Castle of Burgos was used as prison of State, being occupied by the kings García II of Galicia and Alfonso VI of León and Castile and by Tomás de Gournay, murderer of the king Edward II of England.\n\nIn 1277, as referred the \"Annals of the reign of Alfonso X\", was executed in the castle of Burgos the infante Frederick of Castile, son of Ferdinand III of Castile, by order of his brother Alfonso X of Castile, who ordered to execute at one time to Simón Ruiz of Cameros, lord of Cameros and son in law of infante Frederick of Castile. The version provided by the \"Annals of the reign of Alfonso X\", after of the \"Chronicle of Alfonso X\" of the execution of infante Fadrique, is as follows:\n\nLater, after spending several years in an unworthy place, the remains of the infante Frederick of Castile were transferred in 1282, by order of his nephew Sancho IV of Castile to the missing Convento de la Santísima Trinidad in Burgos, which was demolished in the 19th century.\n\nDuring the Early Modern Age and because both the evolution of military techniques, as the remoteness of the war zones, loses its former defensive function. In its enclosure was settled the first training school for gunners that have been in Spain, reaching produce twenty quintals of gunpowder daily in 1542. This was about secondary activities.\n\nThe known as palace of Alfonso X was inhabited by John II of Castile and also by his father Henry III of Castile.\n\nA fire in 1739 resulted in the destruction of the interior, some ceilings and coffered. During the War of Independence the city regained its strategic position and the French proceeded to an ephemeral conditioning which was a very significant transformation of the enclosure.\n\nWith the Napoleonic invasion the French soldiers set out in it their imperial battery. Between September and October 1812 the castle was the star center of the Siege of Burgos led by the Duke of Wellington, which had its base of operations in a palace located in Villatoro. With the withdrawal of the French in 1813, the castle is witnessing of the last preparations that the contingent made before their final departure. There works to disappear any war or documentary material that could be useful to the enemy; the chosen procedure is explote the fortress. They make it blow up without allowing time for the evacuation of the last soldiers. More than two hundred French soldiers died in the blast, that shakes the entire population.\n\nWith the explosion, the Church of Santa María La Blanca was destroyed, it lost much of the windows of the cathedral and occurred damage on the chest of the crossing tower and in the church of San Esteban while that in the chopera del Carmen are located many bodies of French soldiers.\n\nThe Castle of Burgos played a key role in the communication system with the semaphore line devised in Spain in the 19th century. In the province of Burgos still are preserved remains, in various states of preservation, of the many towers that were built to communicate the center of the peninsula with the north. The Castle of Burgos was the position 27 of the Line of Castile that connected Madrid with Irun.\n\nIt was used sporadically during the Carlist Wars and also used along the Civil War of 1936, settling there the antiaircraft defense of the city.\n\nBetween the years 1955 and 1958 were tried to reconstruct the blocks but regardless of the real planes.\n\nIn the last archaeological campaign (1985) was discovered the deep well and its spiral stairs. A A team of speleologists topographed the interior of the well (also known as Cueva del Moro). They descended to 61 meters noting the great constructive ashlar and its various ramifications. A great piece of engineering. Subsequently, appeared a cistern under the main courtyard.\n\nA digital reconstruction has been made on the basis of one of the engravings of the work \"Civitatis Orbi Terrarum\" of 1576.\n\nToday is a playground with streets dedicated to poets. The remains of the fortress, in state of ruins, has allowed its qualification as a museum, opened in 2003, or interpretation center, and it can also visit the well and the underground tunnels, known as \"Cueva del Moro\".\n\nRecent archaeological excavations have uncovered the remains of the \"South Gate\". This is a broken wall, open to a vain flanked by two towers of semicircular plant. The front gate is open in the northwestern front, it has a vaulted passageway.\n\nAs part of the underground complex, the well has galleries of more than 300 m in length. Data from the 12th and 13th centuries, although the first reports date from 1475, during the siege of the troops of Isabella I of Castile, episode of the war of the Castilian Succession to the throne, being defended by supporters of Joanna la Beltraneja. Factory work of ashlar in limestone, consisting of a vertical hollow cylinder reaches a depth of 61.50 m. To access are constructed 6 spindles or vertical cylinder of 1.40 m internal diameter .\n\nBailey, remains of the Tower of Homage, anthropomorphic tombs, several rooms and floors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1496449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1496449", "title": "Charnel house", "text": "Charnel house\n\nA charnel house is a vault or building where human skeletal remains are stored. They are often built near churches for depositing bones that are unearthed while digging graves. The term can also be used more generally as a description of a place filled with death and destruction.\n\nIn countries where ground suitable for burial was scarce, corpses would be interred for approximately five years following death, thereby allowing decomposition to occur. After this, the remains would be exhumed and moved to an ossuary or charnel house, thereby allowing the original burial place to be reused. In modern times, the use of charnel houses is a characteristic of cultures living in rocky or arid places, such as the Cyclades archipelago and other Greek islands in the Aegean Sea.\n\nSaint Catherine's Monastery in the Sinai is famous for having a working charnel house. Saint Catherine's was founded by Justinian in the early 6th century, on the site of an older monastery founded about 313 AD and named for Helena of Constantinople. The monastery comprises the whole Autonomous Church of Sinai, under the Patriarchate of Jerusalem. The site lies at the foot of Mount Sinai where Christians believe Moses received the Ten Commandments.\n\nSince the Sinai is an inhospitable place, the brethren of St. Catherine's have struggled to eke out a subsistence-level existence. The difficulty in establishing a large cemetery in the rocky ground notwithstanding, relics are also gathered for temporal and spiritual reasons: a reminder to the monks of their impending death and fate in the hereafter. The Archbishop of Saint Catherine's is commonly the Abbot as well. After death, he is afforded the dignity of a special niche within the \"Skull-House\".\n\nA charnel house is also a structure commonly seen in some Native American societies of the Eastern United States. Major examples are the Hopewell cultures and Mississippian cultures. These houses were used specifically for mortuary services and, although they required many more resources to build and maintain than a crypt, they were widely used. They offered privacy and shelter as well as enough workspace for mortuary proceedings. These proceedings included cremation (in the included crematorium) as well as defleshing of the body before the cremation. Once the houses had served their purpose, they were burned to the ground and covered by earth, creating a sort of burial mound. Anthropologist William F. Romain in \"Mysteries of the Hopewell\" notes that these charnel houses were built in the form of a square, and their diagonals could be aligned to the direction of maximum and minimum moon-sets both north and south.\n\nCharnel houses do not appear to have been common in England. The earliest reference found to a charnel house was in the parish of St Mary-at-Hill in London, during the sixteenth century. Few other charnel houses are attested in the seventeenth century, usually within overcrowded urban contexts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1658372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1658372", "title": "Dasvand", "text": "Dasvand\n\nDasvand () literally means \"a tenth part\" and refers the act of donating ten percent of one's harvest, both financial and in the form of time and service such as seva to the Gurdwara and anywhere else. It falls into Guru Nanak Dev's concept of Vand Chhako. This was done during the time of Guru Arjan Dev and many Sikhs still do it up to this day. The concept of dasvandh was implicit in Guru Nanak's own line: \"ghali khai kichhu hathhu dei, Nanak rahu pachhanahi sei—He alone, O Nanak, knoweth the way who eats out of what he earneth by his honest labour and yet shareth part of it with others\" (GG, 1245). The idea of sharing and giving was nourished by the institutions of sangat (holy assembly) and langar (community kitchen) the Guru had established. \n\nIn the time of Guru Amar Das, a formal structure for channelizing Sikh religion was evolved in order to show directions to the Sikhs by preaching them the teachings of The Holy Guru . He set up 22 manjis or districts in different parts of the country. Each of these manjis was placed under the charge of a pious Sikh (both male and female) who, besides preaching Guru Nanak’s word, looked after the sangats within his/her jurisdiction and transmitted the disciple's offerings to the Guru. As the excavation of the sacred tank at Amritsar, and the erection of the central shrine, Harimander, began under Guru Ram Das resulting in a large amount of expenditure, the Sikhs were encouraged to set aside a minimum of ten per cent (dasvandh) of their income for the common cause and the concept of Guru Ki Golak \"Guru's treasury\" was coined. Masands, i.e. ministers and the tithe-collectors, were appointed to collect \"kar bhet\" (sewa offerings) and dasvandh from the Sikhs in the area they were assigned to, and pass these on to the Guru nanak\n\nThe custom of dasvandh is found in documents called rahitnamas, manuals of Sikh conduct, written during the lifetime of Guru Gobind Singh or soon after. For example, Bhai Nand Lal’s Tankhahnama records these words of Gobind Singh: \"Hear ye Nand Lal, one who does not give dasvandh and, telling lies, misappropriates it, is not at all to be trusted.\" The tradition has been kept alive by chosen Sikhs who to this day scrupulously fulfil this injunction. The institution itself serves as a means for the individual to practice personal piety as well as to participate in the ongoing history of the community, the Guru Panth (\"Guru's path\").\n"}
{"id": "146656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146656", "title": "Ecumenism", "text": "Ecumenism\n\nThe term \"ecumenism\" refers to efforts by Christians of different Church traditions to develop closer relationships and better understandings. The term is also often used to refer to efforts towards the visible and organic unity of different Christian denominations in some form.\n\nThe adjective \"ecumenical\" can also be applied to any interdenominational initiative that encourages greater cooperation among Christians and their churches, whether or not the specific aim of that effort is full, visible unity.\n\nThe terms \"ecumenism\" and \"ecumenical\" come from the Greek (\"oikoumene\"), which means \"the whole inhabited world\", and was historically used with specific reference to the Roman Empire. The ecumenical vision comprises both the search for the visible unity of the Church (Ephesians 4:3) and the \"whole inhabited earth\" (Matthew 24:14) as the concern of all Christians.\n\nIn Christianity the qualification \"ecumenical\" is originally (and still) used in terms such as \"ecumenical council\" and \"Ecumenical Patriarch\" in the meaning of pertaining to the totality of the larger Church (such as the Catholic Church or the Orthodox Church) rather than being restricted to one of its constituent local churches or dioceses. Used in this original sense, the term carries no connotation of re-uniting the historically separated Christian denominations, but presumes a unity of local congregations in a worldwide communion.\n\nHistorically, the word was originally used in the context of large ecumenical councils that were organized under the auspices of Roman Emperors to clarify matters of Christian theology and doctrine. These \"Ecumenical Councils\" brought together bishops from around the inhabited world (that is, οἰκουμένη) as they knew it at the time. There were a total of seven ecumenical councils accepted by both Eastern Orthodoxy and Roman Catholicism held before the Great Schism. Thus, the modern meaning of the world \"ecumenical\" and \"ecumenism\" derives from this pre-modern sense of Christian unity, and the impulse to recreate this unity again.\n\nThere are a variety of different expectations of what that Christian unity looks like, how it is brought about, what ecumenical methods ought to be engaged, and what both short- and long-term objectives of the ecumenical movement should be. Ecumenism and nondenominational or post denominational movements are not necessarily the same thing.\n\nIf ecumenism is the quest for Christian unity, it must be understood what the divisions are which must be overcome.\n\nChristianity has not been a monolithic faith since the first century or Apostolic Age, if ever, and today there exist a large variety of groups that share a common history and tradition within and without mainstream Christianity. Christianity is the largest religion in the world (making up approximately one-third of the population) and the various divisions have commonalities and differences in tradition, theology, church government, doctrine, and language.\n\nThe world's 2.2 billion Christians are visibly divided into different communions or denominations, groupings of Christians and their churches that are in full communion with one another, but to some degree exclusive of other Christians.\n\nThe exact number of these denominations is disputed, based on differing definitions used. The largest number often quoted is \"approximately 45,000\" from the Center for the Study of Global Christianity at Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary. The \"World Christian Encyclopedia\" lists \"approximately 33,000\" in 2001. Yet, at the same time, the World Council of Churches counts only 348 member churches, representing more than half a billion members. This, with the Catholic Church's 1.25 billion Christians, indicates that 349 churches/denominations already account for nearly 80% of the world's Christian population.\n\nOne problem with the larger numbers is that single denominations can be counted multiple times. For example, the Catholic Church is a single church, or communion, comprising 24 distinct self-governing particular churches in full communion with the bishop of Rome (the largest being the Latin Church, commonly called \"Roman Catholic\"). Further, the Catholic Church presence in each country is counted as a different denomination—though this is in no way an ecclesiologically accurate definition. This can result in the one Catholic Church being counted as 242 distinct denominations, as in the \"World Christian Encyclopedia\".\n\nAdditionally, single nondenominational congregations or megachurches without denominational affiliation are effectively counted each as its own denomination, resulting in cases where entire \"denominations\" may account for only a handful of people. Other denominations may be very small remnants of once larger churches. The United Society of Believers in Christ's Second Appearing (Shakers) have only two full members, for example, yet are a distinct denomination.\n\nMost current divisions are the result of historical schisms—a break in the full communion between previously united Churches, bishops, or communities. Some historical schisms proved temporary and were eventually healed, others have hardened into the denominations of today. However individual denominations are counted, it is generally acknowledged that they fall into the following major \"families\" of churches:\n\nIn the United States, the Historic racial/ethnic churches are sometimes counted as a distinct family of churches, though they may otherwise fit into any one of the previous categories.\n\nSome of these families are in themselves a single communion, such as the Catholic Church. Other families are a very general movement with no universal governing authority. Protestantism, for example, includes such diverse groups as Adventists, Anabaptists, Baptists, Congregationalists, Evangelicals, Holiness churches, Lutherans, Methodists, Moravians, Presbyterians, and Reformed churches. Many of these have, as a result of ecumenical dialogue, established full or partial communion agreements.\n\nMoreover, the classic distinction between Pentecostals and Charismatics is that the former are entire denominations (such as the Assembly of God) or include most nondenominational churches, whereas the latter are Spirit-filled Christians in already existing Catholic or mainline Protestant churches. Moreover, some Evangelical churches are also Pentecostal, though certainly not all. So there is some overlap.\n\nThe oldest lasting schism in Christianity resulted from fifth-century disagreements on Christology, heightened by philosophical, linguistic, cultural, and political differences.\n\nThe first significant, lasting split in historic Christianity, the so-called Nestorian Schism, came from the Church of the East, consisting largely of Eastern Syriac churches outside the Roman Empire, who left full communion after 431 in response to misunderstandings and personality conflicts at the Council of Ephesus. After fifteen centuries of estrangement, the Assyrian Church of the East and the Roman Catholic Church entered into an ecumenical dialogue in the 1980s, resulting in agreement on the very issue that split them asunder, in the 1994 Common Christological Declaration, which identifies the origin of the schism as largely linguistic, due to problems of translating very delicate and precise terminology from Latin to Aramaic and vice versa.\n\nAs part of the ongoing Christological controversy, following the Council of Chalcedon in 451, the next large split came with the Syriac and Coptic churches dividing themselves. The churches dissented from Chalcedon becoming today's Oriental Orthodox Churches. These also include the Armenian Apostolic Church, the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, and the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church in India. In modern times, there have also been moves towards healing this division, with common Christological statements being made between Pope John Paul II and Syriac patriarch Ignatius Zakka I Iwas, as well as between representatives of both Oriental Orthodoxy and the Eastern Orthodox Church.\n\nAlthough the Christian world as a whole did not experience any major church divisions for centuries afterward, the Eastern, predominantly Greek-speaking and Western, predominantly Latin-speaking cultural divisions drifted toward division and isolation culminating in the mutual excommunication of Patriarch of Constantinople Michael I Cerularius and the legate of then-deceased Pope of Rome Leo IX in 1054, in what is known as the Great Schism. The canonical separation was sealed by the Latin sacking of Constantinople (1204) during the Fourth Crusade and through the poor reception of the Council of Florence (1449) among the Orthodox Eastern Churches.\n\nThe political and theological reasons for the schism are complex and multifaceted. Aside from the natural rivalry between the Eastern Roman or Byzantine Empire and the Franco-Latin Holy Roman Empire, one major controversy was the inclusion and acceptance in the West in general – and in the diocese of Rome in particular – of the Filioque clause (\"and the Son\") into the Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed, which the East viewed as a violation of ecclesiastical procedure at best, an abuse of papal authority as only an Ecumenical Council could amend what had been defined by a previous council, and a heresy at worst, inasfar as the Filioque implies that the essential divinity of the Holy Spirit is derived not from the Father alone as \"arche\" (singular head and source), but from the perichoretic union between the Father and the Son. That the hypostasis or persona of the Spirit either is or is produced by the mutual, preeternal love between God and His Word is an explanation which Eastern Christian detractors have alleged is rooted in the medieval Augustinian appropriation of Plotinian Neoplatonism. (See Augustine of Hippo, \"De Trinitate\")\n\nBoth West and East agreed that the patriarch of Rome was owed a \"primacy of honour\" by the other patriarchs (those of Alexandria, Antioch, Constantinople and Jerusalem), but the West also contended that this primacy extended to jurisdiction, a position rejected by the Eastern patriarchs. Various attempts at dialogue between the two groups would occur, but it was only in the 1960s, under Pope Paul VI and Patriarch Athenagoras, that significant steps began to be made to mend the relationship between the two. In 1965, the excommunications were 'committed to oblivion'.\n\nThe resulting division remains, however, giving us the \"Catholic Church\" and the \"Orthodox Church\", both of which are globally distributed bodies and no longer restricted geographically or culturally to the \"West\" or \"East\", respectively. (There exists both Eastern Rite Roman Catholicism and Western Rite Orthodoxy, for example.) There is an ongoing and fruitful Catholic-Orthodox dialogue.\n\nIn Western Christianity, there were a handful of geographically isolated movements that preceded in the spirit of the Protestant Reformation. The Cathars were a very strong movement in medieval southwestern France, but did not survive into modern times, largely as as result of the Albigensian Crusade. In northern Italy and southeastern France, Peter Waldo founded the Waldensians in the 12th century, which remains the largest non-Catholic church in Italy and is in full communion with the Italian Methodist Church. In Bohemia, a movement in the early 15th century by Jan Hus called the Hussites called for reform of Catholic teaching and still exists to this day, known as the Moravian Church. Though generally counted among Protestant churches, groups such as the Waldensians and Moravians pre-exist Protestantism proper.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation began, symbolically, with the posting of Martin Luther's \"Ninety-Five Theses\" in Saxony on October 31, 1517, written as a set of grievances to reform the Western Church. Luther's writings, combined with the work of Swiss theologian Huldrych Zwingli and French theologian and politician John Calvin, sought to reform existing problems in doctrine and practice. Due to the reactions of ecclesiastical office holders at the time of the reformers, the Roman Catholic Church separated from them, instigating a rift in Western Christianity. This schism gives us the Mainline Protestant Churches, including especially the Lutheran and Reformed traditions.\n\nIn England, Henry VIII of England declared himself to be supreme head of the Church of England with the Act of Supremacy in 1531, repressing both Lutheran reformers and those loyal to the pope. Thomas Cranmer as Archbishop of Canterbury introduced the English Reformation in a form compromising between the Calvinists and Lutherans. This schism brings us today's Anglican Communion.\n\nThe Radical Reformation, also mid-sixteenth century, moved beyond both Anglican and Protestant reformations, emphasizing the invisible, spiritual reality of the Church, apart from any visible ecclesial manifestation. A significant group of Radical reformers were the Anabaptists, people such as Menno Simons and Jakob Ammann, whose movements resulted in today's communities of Mennonites, Amish, Hutterites, and Brethren churches, and to some extent, the Bruderhof Communities.\n\nFurther reform movements within Anglicanism during the 16th through 18th centuries, with influence from the Radical Reformation, produced the Puritans and Separatists, giving us today's Baptists, Congregationalists, Quakers, and eventually Unitarian Universalism.\n\nThe Wesleyan and Methodist churches grew out of a revival within Anglicanism, especially in England and the American colonies, under the leadership of the brothers John Wesley and Charles Wesley, both priests in the Church of England. This movement also produced the Holiness movement churches.\n\nThe Old Catholic Church split from the Catholic Church in the 1870s because of the promulgation of the dogma of Papal Infallibility as promoted by the First Vatican Council of 1869–1870. The term \"Old Catholic\" was first used in 1853 to describe the members of the See of Utrecht who were not under Papal authority. The Old Catholic movement grew in America but has not maintained ties with Utrecht, although talks are under way between some independent Old Catholic bishops and Utrecht.\n\nThe Evangelical movement takes form as the result of spiritual renewal efforts in the anglophone world in the 18th century. According to religion scholar, social activist, and politician Randall Balmer, Evangelicalism resulted \"from the confluence of Pietism, Presbyterianism, and the vestiges of Puritanism. Evangelicalism picked up the peculiar characteristics from each strain – warmhearted spirituality from the Pietists (for instance), doctrinal precisionism from the Presbyterians, and individualistic introspection from the Puritans\". Historian Mark Noll adds to this list High Church Anglicanism, which contributed to Evangelicalism a legacy of \"rigorous spirituality and innovative organization\".\n\nPentecostalism is likewise born out of this context, and traditionally traces its origins to the 1 January 1901 outpouring of the spirit in Topeka, Kansas, at the Bethel Bible School. Subsequent charismatic revivals in Wales in 1904 and the Azusa Street Revival in 1906 are held as the beginnings of the Pentecostal movement. For a Spirit-believing Christian, it is not coincidence that these started just a few hours after Pope Leo XIII lead a prayer \"Veni Spiritus Sanctus\" during his \"urbi et orbi\" message, consecrating the 20th century to the Holy Spirit and through this prayer to the reunion of Christianity.\n\nOne understanding of the ecumenical movement is that it came from the Roman Catholic Church's attempts to reconcile with Christians who had become separated over theological issues. Others see the 1910 World Missionary Conference as the birthplace of the ecumenical movement. Others yet point to the 1920 encyclical of the Eastern Orthodox Ecumenical Patriarch Germanos of Constantinople \"To the Churches of Christ Everywhere\" that suggested a \"fellowship of churches\" similar to the League of Nations.\n\nNathan Söderblom, Archbishop of Uppsala, the head of the Lutheran church in Sweden, is known as the architect of the ecumenical movement of the twentieth century. During the First World War, he called on all Christian leaders to work for peace and justice. His leadership of the Christian \"Life and Work\" movement in the 1920s has led him to be recognised as one of the principal founders of the ecumenical movement. His was instrumental in chairing the World Conference of Life and Work in Stockholm, Sweden in 1925. At the Stockholm Conference in 1925, the culminating event in Söderblom's ecumenical work, the Anglican, Protestant, and Orthodox Christians were all present and participating, with the exception of the Catholic Church, which was a much regretted absence. He was a close friend of the English ecumenist George Bell. In 1930 was one of the recipients of the Nobel Prize, Nobel Peace Prize laureate, for the:\"Cooperation between Christian Church Communities Brings Peace\" and the first clergyman to receive this prize.\n\nAfter World War I, which had brought much devastation to many people, the church became a source of hope to those in need. In 1948 the first meeting of the World Council of Churches took place. Despite the fact that the meeting had been postponed due to World War II, the council took place in Amsterdam with the theme of \"Man’s Disorder and God’s Design\". The focus of the church and the council following the gathering was on the damage created by the Second World War. The council and the movement went forward to continue the efforts of unifying the church globally around the idea of helping all those in need, whether it be a physical, emotional, or spiritual need. The movement led to an understanding amongst the churches that, despite difference, they could join together to be an element of great change in the world. To be an agent of hope and peace amongst the chaos and destruction that humans seem to create. More importantly the council and the movement lead to not only ecumenism but to the forming of councils amongst the denominations that connected churches across continental lines.\n\nToday, the World Council of Churches sees its role as sharing \"the legacy of the one ecumenical movement and the responsibility to keep it alive\" and acting \"as a trustee for the inner coherence of the movement\".\n\nFor some Protestants, spiritual unity, and often unity on the church's teachings on central issues, suffices. According to Lutheran theologian Edmund Schlink, most important in Christian ecumenism is that people focus primarily on Christ, not on separate church organizations. In Schlink's book \"Ökumenische Dogmatik\" (1983), he says Christians who see the risen Christ at work in the lives of various Christians or in diverse churches realize that the unity of Christ's church has never been lost, but has instead been distorted and obscured by different historical experiences and by spiritual myopia.\n\nBoth are overcome in renewed faith in Christ. Included in that is responding to his admonition (John 17; Philippians 2) to be one in him and love one another as a witness to the world. The result of mutual recognition would be a discernible worldwide fellowship, organized in a historically new way.\n\nFor a significant part of the Christian world, one of the highest goals to be sought is the reconciliation of the various denominations by overcoming the historical divisions within Christianity. Even where there is broad agreement upon this goal, approaches to ecumenism vary. Generally, Protestants see fulfillment of the goal of ecumenism as consisting in general agreements on teachings about central issues of faith, with mutual pastoral accountability between the diverse churches regarding the teachings of salvation.\n\nFor Catholics and Orthodox on the other hand, the true unity of Christendom is treated in accordance with their more sacramental understanding of the Body of Christ; this ecclesiastical matter for them is closely linked to key theological issues (e.g. regarding the Eucharist and the historical Episcopate), and requires full dogmatic assent to the pastoral authority of the Church for full communion to be considered viable and valid. Thus, there are different answers even to the \"question of the church\", which finally is the goal of the ecumenist movement itself. However, the desire of unity is expressed by many denominations, generally that all who profess faith in Christ in sincerity, would be more fully cooperative and supportive of one another.\n\nFor the Catholic and Orthodox churches, the process of approaching one another can be described as formally split in two successive stages: the \"dialogue of love\" and the \"dialogue of truth\". Examples of acts belonging to the former include the mutual revocation in 1965 of the anathemas of 1054 (see below Contemporary developments), returning the relics of Sabbas the Sanctified (a common saint) to Mar Saba in the same year, and the first visit of a Pope to an Orthodox country in a millennium (Pope John Paul II accepting the invitation of the Patriarch of the Romanian Orthodox Church, Teoctist, in 1999), among others. The later one, involving effective theological engagement on matters of dogma, is only just commencing.\n\nChristian ecumenism can be described in terms of the three largest divisions of Christianity: Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and Protestant. While this underemphasizes the complexity of these divisions, it is a useful model.\n\nThe Catholic Church has always considered it a duty of the highest rank to seek full unity with estranged communions of fellow-Christians and, at the same time, to reject what it sees as a false union that would mean being unfaithful to or glossing over the teaching of sacred scripture and tradition.\n\nBefore the Second Vatican Council, the main stress was laid on this second aspect, as exemplified in canon 1258 of the 1917 Code of Canon Law:\n\nThe 1983 Code of Canon Law has no corresponding canon. It absolutely forbids Catholic priests to concelebrate the Eucharist with members of communities which are not in full communion (canon 908), but allows, in certain circumstances and under certain conditions, other sharing in the sacraments. The \"Directory for the Application of Principles and Norms on Ecumenism\", 102 states: \"Christians may be encouraged to share in spiritual activities and resources, i.e., to share that spiritual heritage they have in common in a manner and to a degree appropriate to their present divided state.\"\n\nPope John XXIII, who convoked the council that brought this change of emphasis about, said that the council's aim was to seek renewal of the church itself, which would serve, for those separated from the See of Rome, as a \"gentle invitation to seek and find that unity for which Jesus Christ prayed so ardently to his heavenly Father\".\n\nSome elements of the Catholic perspective on ecumenism are illustrated in the following quotations from the council's decree on ecumenism, \"Unitatis Redintegratio\" of 21 November 1964, and Pope John Paul II's encyclical, \"Ut Unum Sint\" of 25 May 1995.\n\nWhile some Eastern Orthodox churches commonly baptize converts from the Catholic Church, thereby refusing to recognize the baptism that the converts have previously received, the Catholic Church has always accepted the validity of all the sacraments administered by the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox churches.\n\nThe Catholic Church likewise has very seldom applied the terms \"heterodox\" or \"heretic\" to the Eastern Orthodox churches or its members, though there are clear differences in doctrine, notably about the authority of the Pope, Purgatory, and the filioque clause. More often, the term \"separated\" or \"schismatic\" has been applied to the state of the Eastern Orthodox churches.\n\nThe Oriental Orthodox and Eastern Orthodox churches are two distinct bodies of local churches. The churches within each body share full communion, although there is not official communion between the two bodies. Both consider themselves to be the original church, from which the West was divided in the 5th and 11th centuries, respectively (after the 3rd and 7th Ecumenical councils).\n\nMany theologians of the Eastern and Oriental Orthodoxies engage in theological dialogue with each other and with some of the Western churches, though short of full communion. The Eastern Orthodox have participated in the ecumenical movement, with students active in the World Student Christian Federation since the late 19th century. Most Eastern Orthodox and all Oriental Orthodox churches are members of the World Council of Churches. Kallistos of Diokleia, a bishop of the Eastern Orthodox Church has stated that ecumenism \"is important for Orthodoxy: it has helped to force the various Orthodox Churches out of their comparative isolation, making them meet one another and enter into a living contact with non-Orthodox Christians.\"\n\nHistorically, the relationship between the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Anglican Communion has been congenial, with the Patriarch of Constantinople in 1922 recognising Anglican orders as valid. He wrote: \"That the orthodox theologians who have scientifically examined the question have almost unanimously come to the same conclusions and have declared themselves as accepting the validity of Anglican Orders.\" Moreover, some Eastern Orthodox bishops have assisted in the ordination of Anglican bishops; for example, in 1870, the Most Reverend Alexander Lycurgus, the Greek Orthodox Archbishop of Syra and Tinos, was one of the bishops who consecrated Henry MacKenzie as the Suffragan Bishop of Nottingham. From 1910–1911, the era before World War I, Raphael of Brooklyn, an Eastern Orthodox bishop, \"sanctioned an interchange of ministrations with the Episcopalians in places where members of one or the other communion are without clergy of their own\". Bishop Raphael stated that in places \"where there is no resident Orthodox Priest\", an Anglican (Episcopalian) priest could administer Marriage, Holy Baptism, and the Blessed Sacrament to an Orthodox layperson. In 1912, however, Bishop Raphael ended the intercommunion after becoming uncomfortable with the fact that the Anglican Communion contained different churchmanships within Her, e.g. High Church, Evangelical, etc. However, after World War I, the Fellowship of Saint Alban and Saint Sergius was organized in 1927, which much like the Anglican and Eastern Churches Association worked on ecumenism between the two Churches; both of these organisations continue their task today.\n\nIn accordance with the Soviet anti-religious legislation under the state atheism of the Soviet Union, several Russian Orthodox churches and seminaries were closed. With ecumenical aid from Methodists in the United States two Russian Orthodox seminaries were reopened, and hierarchs of the Orthodox Church thankfully made the following statement: \"The services rendered by the American Methodists and other Christian friends will go down in history of the Orthodox Church as one of its brightest pages in that dark and trying time of the church. Our Church will never forget the Samaritan service which your whole Church unselfishly rendered us. May this be the beginning of closer friendship for our churches and nations.\"\n\nThe members of the Anglican Communion have generally embraced the Ecumenical Movement, actively participating in such organizations as the World Council of Churches and the National Council of the Churches of Christ in the USA. Most provinces holding membership in the Anglican Communion have special departments devoted to ecumenical relations; however, the influence of Liberal Christianity has in recent years caused tension within the communion, causing some to question the direction ecumenism has taken them.\n\nEach member church of the Anglican Communion makes its own decisions with regard to intercommunion. The 1958 Lambeth Conference recommended \"that where between two Churches not of the same denominational or confessional family, there is unrestricted \"communio in sacris\", including mutual recognition and acceptance of ministries, the appropriate term to use is 'full communion', and that where varying degrees of relation other than 'full communion' are established by agreement between two such churches the appropriate term is 'intercommunion'.\"\n\nFull communion has been established between Provinces of the Anglican Communion and these Churches:\n\nFull communion has been established between the Anglican Churches of Europe (England, Wales, Scotland, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Gibraltar in Europe) and the Lutheran Churches of Northern Europe (Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Estonia, Lithuania, Great Britain and the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church Abroad) with the Porvoo Communion. \n\nThe Episcopal Church is currently engaged in dialogue with the following religious bodies:\n\nWorldwide, an estimated forty million Anglicans belong to churches that do not participate in the Anglican Communion , a particular organization limited to one province per country. In these Anglican churches, there is strong opposition to the ecumenical movement and to membership in such bodies as the World and National Councils of Churches. Most of these churches are associated with the Continuing Anglican movement or the movement for Anglican realignment. While ecumenicalism in general is opposed, certain Anglican church bodies that are not members of the Anglican Communion—the Free Church of England and the Church of England in South Africa, for example—have fostered close and cooperative relations with other evangelical (if non-Anglican) churches, on an individual basis.\n\nNicolaus Ludwig, Count von Zinzendorf, (1700–1760) the renewer of the Unitas Fratrum / Moravian Church in the 18th century, was the first person to use the word \"ecumenical\" in this sense. His pioneering efforts to unite all Christians, regardless of denominational labels, into a \"Church of God in the Spirit\"—notably among German immigrants in Pennsylvania—were misunderstood by his contemporaries and 200 years before the world was ready for them.\n\nThe contemporary ecumenical movement for Protestants is often said to have started with the 1910 Edinburgh Missionary Conference. However this conference would not have been possible without the pioneering ecumenical work of the Christian youth movements: the Young Men's Christian Association (founded 1844), the Young Women's Christian Association (founded 1855), the World Student Christian Federation (founded 1895), and the Federal Council of Churches (founded 1908), predecessor to today's National Council of Churches USA.\n\nLed by Methodist layman John R. Mott (former YMCA staff and in 1910 the General Secretary of WSCF), the World Mission conference marked the largest Protestant gathering to that time, with the express purposes of working across denominational lines for the sake of world missions. After the First World War further developments were the \"Faith and Order\" movement led by Charles Henry Brent, and the \"Life and Work\" movement led by Nathan Soderblom. In the 1930s, the tradition of an annual World Communion Sunday to celebrate ecumenical ties was established in the Presbyterian Church and was subsequently adopted by several other denominations.\n\nEventually, formal organizations were formed, including the World Council of Churches in 1948, the National Council of Churches in the United States in 1950, and Churches Uniting in Christ in 2002. These groups are moderate to liberal, theologically speaking, as Protestants are generally more liberal and less traditional than Anglicans, Orthodox, and Roman Catholics.\n\nProtestants are now involved in a variety of ecumenical groups, working in some cases toward organic denominational unity and in other cases for cooperative purposes alone. Because of the wide spectrum of Protestant denominations and perspectives, full cooperation has been difficult at times. Edmund Schlink's \"Ökumenische Dogmatik\" (1983, 1997) proposes a way through these problems to mutual recognition and renewed church unity.\n\nIn 1999, the representatives of Lutheran World Federation and Roman Catholic Church signed the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification, resolving the conflict over the nature of Justification which was at the root of the Protestant Reformation, although some conservative Lutherans did not agree to this resolution. On July 18, 2006, delegates to the World Methodist Conference voted unanimously to adopt the Joint Declaration.\n\nThe mutual anathemas (excommunications) of 1054, marking the Great Schism between Western (Catholic) and Eastern (Orthodox) branches of Christianity, a process spanning several centuries, were revoked in 1965 by Pope Paul VI and the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople. The Roman Catholic Church does not regard Orthodox Christians as excommunicated, since they personally have no responsibility for the separation of their churches. In fact, Catholic rules admit the Orthodox to communion and the other sacraments in situations where the individuals are in danger of death or no Orthodox churches exist to serve the needs of their faithful. However, Orthodox churches still generally regard Roman Catholics as excluded from the sacraments and some may even not regard Catholic sacraments such as baptism and ordination as valid.\n\nIn November 2006, Pope Benedict XVI traveled to Istanbul at the invitation of Patriarch Bartholomew I of Constantinople and participated in the feast day services of St. Andrew the First Apostle, the patron saint of the Church of Constantinople. The Ecumenical Patriarch and Pope Benedict had another historic meeting in Ravenna, Italy in 2007. The Declaration of Ravenna marked a significant rapprochement between the Roman Catholic and Orthodox positions. The declaration recognized the bishop of Rome as the Protos, or first among equals of the Patriarchs. This acceptance and the entire agreement was hotly contested by the Russian Orthodox Church. The signing of the declaration highlighted the pre-existing tensions between the Patriarch of Constantinople and the Moscow Patriarchate. Besides their theological concerns, the Russian Orthodox have continuing concerns over the question of the Eastern Catholic Churches that operate in what they regard as Orthodox territory. This question has been exacerbated by disputes over churches and other property that the Communist authorities once assigned to the Orthodox Church but whose restoration these Churches have obtained from the present authorities.\n\nA major obstacle to improved relations between the Orthodox and Roman Catholic Churches has been the insertion of the Latin term filioque into the Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed in the 8th and 11th centuries. This obstacle has now been effectively resolved. The Roman Catholic Church now recognizes that the Creed, as confessed at the First Council of Constantinople, did not add \"and the Son\", when it spoke of the Holy Spirit as proceeding from the Father. When quoting the Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed, as in the 6 August 2000 document \"Dominus Iesus\", it does not include \"filioque\". It views as complementary the Eastern-tradition expression \"who proceeds from the Father\" (profession of which it sees as affirming that he comes from the Father through the Son) and the Western-tradition expression \"who proceeds from the Father and the Son\", with the Eastern tradition expressing firstly the Father's character as first origin of the Spirit, and the Western tradition giving expression firstly to the consubstantial communion between Father and Son; and it believes that, provided this legitimate complementarity does not become rigid, it does not affect the identity of faith in the reality of the same mystery confessed.\n\nContinuing dialogues at both international and national level continues between the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Churches. A particularly close relationship has grown up between Pope Francis and Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew. Both church leaders have in particular emphasized their common concern for refugees and persecuted Christians in the Middle East. The 2016 Pan-Orthodox Council that was held in Crete aroused great expectations for advances in Church unity. Unfortunately, not all Orthodox churches participated and, as a result, the Russian Patriarch refused to recognize the council as a truly ecumenical gathering. A major milestone in the growing rapprochement between the Catholic and Orthodox churches was the 12 February 2016 meeting held in Havana, Cuba between Patriarch Kirill and Pope Francis. The two church leaders issued a Joint Declaration of Pope Francis and Patriarch Kirill at the conclusion of their discussions.\n\nContemporary developments in mainline Protestant churches have dealt a serious blow to ecumenism. The decision by the U.S. Episcopal Church to ordain Gene Robinson, an openly gay, non-celibate priest who advocates same-sex blessings, as bishop led the Russian Orthodox Church to suspend its cooperation with the Episcopal Church. Likewise, when the Church of Sweden decided to bless same-sex marriages, the Russian Patriarchate severed all relations with the Church, noting that \"Approving the shameful practice of same-sex marriages is a serious blow to the entire system of European spiritual and moral values influenced by Christianity.\"\n\nBishop Hilarion Alfeyev commented that the inter-Christian community is \"bursting at the seams\". He sees the great dividing line—or \"abyss\"—not so much between old churches and church families as between \"traditionalists\" and \"liberals\", the latter now dominating Protestantism, and predicted that other Northern Protestant Churches will follow suit and this means that the \"ecumenical ship\" will sink, for with the liberalism that is materializing in European Protestant churches, there is no longer anything to talk about.\n\nOrganizations such as the World Council of Churches, the National Council of Churches USA, Churches Uniting in Christ, Pentecostal Charismatic Peace Fellowship and Christian Churches Together continue to encourage ecumenical cooperation among Protestants, Eastern Orthodox, and, at times, Roman Catholics. There are universities such as the University of Bonn in Germany that offer degree courses in \"Ecumenical Studies\" in which theologians of various denominations teach their respective traditions and, at the same time, seek for common ground between these traditions.\n\nThe Global Christian Forum (GCF) was founded in 1998 following the proposal of the then General Secretary of the WCC, Rev. Konrad Raiser, that a new, independent space should be created where participants could meet on an equal basis to foster mutual respect and to explore and address together common concerns. The GCF brought in two advantages: historic freshness and postmodern approach.\n\nInfluenced by the ecumenical movement, the \"scandal of separation\" and local developments, a number of United and uniting churches have formed; there are also a range of mutual recognition strategies being practiced where formal union is not feasible. An increasing trend has been the sharing of church buildings by two or more denominations, either holding separate services or a single service with elements of all traditions.\n\nThere are some members of the United Methodist Church who oppose ecumenical efforts which are \"not grounded in the doctrines of the Church\" due to concerns over theological compromise. For example, an article published in \"Catalyst Online: Contemporary Evangelical Perspectives for United Methodist Seminarians\" stated that false ecumenism might result in the \"blurring of theological and confessional differences in the interests of unity\".\n\nThe Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod (LCMS) bars its clergy from worshiping with other faiths, contending \"that church fellowship or merger between church bodies in doctrinal disagreement with one another is not in keeping with what the Bible teaches about church fellowship.\" In keeping with this position, a Connecticut LCMS pastor was asked to apologize by the president of the denomination, and did so, for participating in an interfaith prayer vigil for the 26 children and adults killed at a Newtown elementary school; and a LCMS pastor in New York was suspended for praying at an interfaith vigil in 2001, twelve days after the September 11 attacks. Another conservative Lutheran body, the American Association of Lutheran Churches, is strongly opposed to ecumenical (more accurately, interfaith) dialogue with non-Christian religions and with denominations it identifies as cults.\n\nWhen the was released, many prominent Evangelical figures – particularly of the Calvinist Reformed tradition – opposed it, including John F. MacArthur, D. James Kennedy, Alistair Begg, R. C. Sproul, and Arminian Protestant teacher and televangelist John Ankerberg.\n\nPractically, \"the whole of Eastern Orthodoxy holds membership in the World Council of Churches.\" Ecumenical Patriarch Germanus V of Constantinople's 1920 letter \"'To all the Churches of Christ, wherever they may be', urging closer co-operation among separated Christians, and suggesting a 'League of Churches', parallel to the newly founded League of Nations\" was an inspiration for the founding of the World Council of Churches; as such \"Constantinople, along with several of the other Orthodox Churches, was represented at the Faith and Order Conferences at Lausanne in 1927 and at Edinburgh in 1937. The Ecumenical Patriarchate also participated in the first Assembly of the WCC at Amsterdam in 1948, and has been a consistent supporter of the work of the WCC ever since.\"\n\nHowever, many Orthodox Christians are vehemently opposed to ecumenism with other Christian denominations. They view ecumenism, as well as interfaith dialog, as being potentially pernicious to Orthodox Church Tradition; a \"weakening\" of Orthodoxy itself. In the Eastern Orthodox world, the monastic community of Mount Athos, arguably the most important center of Orthodox spirituality, has voiced its concerns regarding the ecumenist movement and opposition to the participation of the Orthodox Church. They regard modern ecumenism as compromising essential doctrinal stands in order to accommodate other Christians, and object to the emphasis on dialogue leading to intercommunion rather than conversion on the part of participants in ecumenical initiatives. Greek Old Calendarists also claim that the teachings of the Seven Ecumenical Councils forbid changing the church calendar through abandonment of the Julian calendar. The Inter-Orthodox Theological Conference entitled \"Ecumenism: Origins, Expectations, Disenchantment\", organized in September 2004 by the Aristotelian University of Thessaloniki has drawn negative conclusions on ecumenism.\n\n\n\nChristian democracy is a centrist political ideology inspired by Catholic social teaching and Neo-Calvinist theology. Christian democratic political parties came to prominence after World War II after Roman Catholics and Protestants worked together to help rebuild war-torn Europe. From its inception, Christian Democracy fosters an \"ecumenical unity achieved on the religious level against the atheism of the government in the Communist countries\".\n\nThe ecumenical symbol pre-dates the World Council of Churches (WCC), formed in 1948, but is incorporated into the official logo of the WCC and many other ecumenical organizations.\n\nThough originating in the Wesleyan tradition, and most popular among mainline and evangelical Protestant churches, the \"Christian Flag\" stands for no creed or denomination, but for Christianity. With regard to the Christian symbolism of the flag:\n\nAn ecumenical Christian organization, the Federal Council of Churches (now succeeded by the National Council of Churches and Christian Churches Together), adopted the flag on 23 January 1942.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14211722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14211722", "title": "Eugene Borowitz", "text": "Eugene Borowitz\n\nEugene B. Borowitz (February 20, 1924 – January 22, 2016) was an American leader and philosopher in Reform Judaism, known largely for his work on Jewish theology and Jewish ethics. He also edited a Jewish journal, \"Sh'ma\", and taught at the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion.\n\nHe was awarded the Maurice N. Eisendrath Bearer of Light Award by the Union for Reform Judaism (2005), selected as a Scholar of Distinction for a retrospective on his work by the Jewish Publication Society (2002) and given the Jewish Cultural Achievement medal for scholarship by the National Foundation for Jewish Culture. He received the National Jewish Book Award (1974) for \"The Mask Jews Wear\". \"Jewish Spiritual Journeys: Essays in Honor of Eugene B. Borowitz on his 70th Birthday\" was published in his honor in 1997.\n\nAs is apparent from a bibliography of his works, Borowitz was a prolific author.\n\nDuring the Korean War, he served as a chaplain for the U.S. Navy. Borowitz held degrees from Ohio State University, Columbia University and HUC-JIR.\n\nBorowitz grew up in Columbus, Ohio, and attended Ohio State University. After graduation, he went to Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati, where he was ordained as a Rabbi in 1948 and received his D.H.L. in 1950.\n\nBorowitz became the founding rabbi of the Community Synagogue in Port Washington, New York, while at the same time pursuing a PhD. in religion from the joint program sponsored by Columbia University and Union Theological Seminary. In 1957, he was appointed as director of the Religious Education Department of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations. Because of this, he switched to Columbia's doctoral program in education and received the Ed.D. in 1958. From 1962 until his death, he was a faculty member at the New York campus of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, where he became the Sigmund L. Falk Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Education and Jewish Religious Thought. He was elected as the first Jewish president of the American Theological Society in 1981 and served until 1982 He celebrated his hundredth semester with the college in 2012.\n\nBorowitz is best known for his development of \"covenant theology,\" a term he first introduced in a 1961 article in \"Commentary\". His work concerned itself with the dilemma of the postmodern Jew: committed to individual autonomy, but nevertheless involved with God, Torah and Israel. His interest in redefining covenant led him to significant work in normative ethics, some of which was collected in his book \"Exploring Jewish Ethics\" (264), and his teaching on the subject led to the volume, \"Reform Jewish Ethics and the Halakhah\" (298). Borowitz's work in covenant theology found its mature expression in his 1991 book, \"Renewing the Covenant\" (273).\n\nOne of Borowitz's most significant accomplishments was his founding of \"Sh'ma, a Journal of Jewish Responsibility\" in 1970. He was its publisher and editor for twenty-three years, and he served as Senior Editor from 1993 to 1997. \"Sh'ma\" provided a forum where voices from all segments of the Jewish community could be heard on a wide range of controversial topics. Borowitz wrote numerous short book reviews for \"Sh'ma\".\n\nBorowitz died January 22, 2016 at the age of 91 at his home in Stamford, Connecticut.\n\n\n\"Bibliography, 1944-1999\", \"additional works\".\n\n\n\nA book describing the creation of the Temple Sinai Ark Tapestry can be read here\n\n\n"}
{"id": "261343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261343", "title": "Fox Mulder", "text": "Fox Mulder\n\nFBI Special Agent Fox William Mulder () is a fictional character in the Fox science fiction-supernatural television series \"The X-Files\", played by David Duchovny. Mulder's peers consider his (often correct) theories on extraterrestrial activity as spooky and far-fetched. With his FBI partner Dana Scully, he works in the X-Files office, which is concerned with cases with particularly mysterious or possibly paranormal circumstances that were left unsolved and shelved by the FBI. Mulder was a main character for the first seven seasons, but was limited to a recurring character for the following two seasons. He returns as a main character for the tenth and eleventh seasons.\n\nMulder made his first appearance in the first season pilot episode, broadcast in 1993. Mulder believes in extraterrestrial unidentified flying objects (UFOs) and a government conspiracy to hide or deny the truth of their existence. Mulder considers the X-Files and the truth behind the supposed conspiracy so important that he has made them the main focus of his life.\n\nMulder was born on October 13, 1961 in Chilmark, Massachusetts. The mysterious disappearance of Mulder's sister and his ensuing search for her became the consuming drive of his life. In 1982, Mulder graduated with first class honours from University of Oxford with a Bachelor of Science degree in psychology. He then graduated with honors from the Quantico FBI Training Academy in 1984. Mulder joined the FBI on October 24, 1984. On graduating from the Academy, Mulder began his work in the Behavioral Science Unit (psychological profiling) under Agent Bill Patterson, with whom he had a testy relationship.\n\nIn 1988, the FBI assigned Mulder to the Violent Crimes Unit. Around this time, Mulder first came across the X-Files, an obscure FBI section dealing with cases relating to the paranormal; he pored over these cases in his spare time, becoming obsessed with them. In 1991, Mulder re-opened the X-Files with Special agent Diana Fowley, but Fowley left shortly thereafter. Mulder investigated the X-Files by himself until March 1992, when Dana Scully, an instructor at the FBI Academy's Forensic Science Research and Training Center, was partnered with him for the purpose of applying scientific reasoning to Mulder's work and theories.\n\nMulder's ultimate goal was to uncover what he believed to be a government conspiracy to hide the truth about alien life, and to find out what had happened to his sister. His quest and belief in the existence of aliens was, for most of the series, the driving force of the plot, or mytharc. However, during a period of time after Scully's cancer went into remission (season 5), Mulder was convinced by Michael Kritschgau that aliens did not in fact exist, and that the government conspirators had merely concocted that threat as a smokescreen, to justify military activities and toy with him.\n\nDuring the seventh season, Mulder eventually discovers the truth about his sister. Samantha was abducted (either by the alien colonists or the government conspirators), and various tests were performed on her. She was then returned to The Smoking Man to live out her life under his supervision, all the while undergoing additional tests. She was unable to bear the testing any longer so she ran away from her home and was eventually admitted to a nearby hospital, where she disappeared from her locked room. It is revealed that Samantha was taken by \"spiritual intervention\", with the help of beings called \"Walk-ins\". Mulder is briefly reunited with Samantha's spirit.\n\nMulder was also abducted by the aliens himself in 2000, and returned to Earth, almost dead, a few months later. He had been infected by an alien virus (for the second time), but Scully found a way to rescue him. After Mulder returned home to his apartment, an application was submitted to the FBI for his reinstatement to the X-Files but this was declined by Deputy Director Alvin Kersh, who had been promoted in charge of the X-Files shortly after Mulder had been abducted. He returned to work for a brief period of time, but was eventually fired for failure to follow orders not to investigate any X-Files. After Scully gave birth to William, Mulder went into hiding in New Mexico after Kersh said his life was in danger.\n\nAfter about a year in hiding, Mulder obtains crucial information from a secret facility about the date of the planned alien colonization effort, but is caught and put on trial for the murder of Knowle Rohrer. Despite a defense organized by Walter Skinner with numerous witnesses, the judges sentence Mulder to death. With help from several people, including a reformed Kersh and the ghost of Alex Krycek, Mulder breaks out of prison and escapes with Scully. As of the series finale, Mulder and Scully were on the run. Six years after the events of the ninth season, Fox Mulder's fugitive status is clear. Scully mentions that he is wanted by the FBI and dialogue also shows that the FBI does not really want to find him and is simply happy to have him \"out of their hair\". He is called to assist with the investigation of a missing FBI agent. In exchange for his help, all charges against him are dropped.\n\nSeven years later, Mulder returns to the FBI when the X-Files is re-opened, in order to look into a government conspiracy, when it transpires they have been using alien technology. Along with Scully, they investigate several cases together like they had done originally. Six weeks after their return to the X-Files, Mulder confronts an alive Smoking Man to try and prevent him carrying out a plan to depopulate the United States using a virus applied to smallpox vaccines. In a vision of Scully's, Mulder falls sick to the disease, but refuses the Smoking Man's help and his proposal to join his elite. Mulder is saved by Agent Miller and they regroup with Scully, however, she says Mulder needs a blood transfusion and only their son can give it to them. At that moment, an unidentified flying object hovers over the trio, which is where season ten ends. The beginning of season eleven reveals this vision came from Scully's son, William. Over the course of season eleven, Scully and Mulder search for William. Skinner learns from the Smoking Man, that the Smoking Man, who is Mulder's father, also artificially impregnated Scully, and thus is William's father as well. In the third episode of the eleventh season, \"Plus One\", Scully and Mulder are intimate again. In the season 11 finale, \"My Struggle IV\", she reveals to Mulder that she is pregnant with his child. \n\nDespite his aloofness and cynical sense of humor, Mulder displays unbridled enthusiasm and interest when it comes to the paranormal, especially because of his personal involvement after his sister's abduction. Walter Skinner and other FBI officials have become concerned by his unprofessional behavior. This only proves true as Mulder makes a habit of letting his personal feelings cloud his judgment; his emotional attachment to UFO cases becomes more severe throughout the series, because of Dana Scully's eventual abduction and resultant cancer as well as his sister's abduction. Mulder can lose his temper when Scully is involved; on multiple occasions, he has become violent in his grief and unreserved in threatening physical force. Mulder's overprotectiveness of Scully stems not only from his obvious devotion and love for her, but also a long-harbored guilt; Mulder has admitted feeling indirectly responsible for the ordeals and tragedies Scully had gone through because of their investigations.\n\nIn the episode \"Drive\", Mulder facetiously apologizes on behalf of the \"international Jewish conspiracy\" in response to the abusive and anti-Semitic tirades of a suspect, to which Mulder appears to take offense; the suspect also guesses Mulder's ethnicity is Jewish based on his last name. Despite this, in the episode \"Kaddish\", Mulder is unable to identify a Talmudic book, states that he does not know Hebrew, and quips that Jesus returned from the dead. Also, Mulder, as his father before him, had a Christian burial presided over by a Protestant minister following his apparent \"death\" in the episode \"Deadalive\". This suggests he hails from a Protestant background, as Scully hails from a Catholic background. Mulder also seeks comfort in a Christian church following the events of the episode \"Conduit\". Of course Mulder could conceivably be of a Jewish ethnic descent but a Christian background, perhaps through ancestral marriage or conversion. David Duchovny suggested Mulder is Jewish when interviewed during production of the second season. In the episode \"The Field Where I Died\", Mulder went into a hypnotic trance and recalls a past life, where he is in a concentration camp during the Holocaust, and another where he was a Confederate soldier killed in the Battle of Chattanooga.\n\nMulder is almost never seen sleeping in a bed. The bedroom in his apartment (which appeared as late as the sixth season of the show's run) is apparently used for storage and is filled floor to ceiling with junk, including a couple of boxes of pornographic magazines. Instead, Mulder sleeps on his couch, often falling asleep to a blaring television. Mulder can seem to go through manic periods when worried or working on a case, contributing to or exacerbating his insomniac tendencies. Since \"Dreamland II\" where a \"man in black\" body-swaps with Mulder and takes over his life, Mulder gets his bedroom renovated and equipped with a waterbed. In \"Monday\" he finds himself soaked through when his waterbed (which he can't remember getting because Morris Fletcher got it in Dreamland) is leaking.\n\nMulder had a rather strained relationship with his parents Bill and Teena Mulder, not least thanks to the X-Files. Initially, he had no idea his father was involved in the conspiracy and Samantha's disappearance. Bill, who became disenchanted with the shadow government and his own role in the conspiracy, eventually approached Fox about his past deeds, but was shot and killed by Alex Krycek – working as an assassin for the Syndicate – before he could reveal any great amount of information. Over the next few years, Mulder got into several conflicts with his mother while trying to discover the extent of her own knowledge of his father's precise involvement. Teena dies of an apparent suicide, when the stress of Samantha's abduction finally becomes too painful.\n\nDuring the last years of his work on the X-Files, Mulder was even forced to doubt that Bill was his true father. He is led to consider the possibility that his mother had had an affair with the Smoking Man, a connection which may have resulted in the birth of either Samantha or Mulder himself. The possibility was hinted at later in the series, and Jeffrey Spender, who certainly was the Smoking Man's son, said that Mulder was his half-brother. In the ninth season, \"William\" explains that Spender and Mulder have very similar DNA, providing strong evidence that they do have the same father.\n\nDuring his studies at Oxford, around the year of 1983, he was dating Phoebe Green; future investigator of Metropolitan Police Service (season 1, episode 11, \"Fire\"). When he started his work on \"The X-Files\", around 1991, he was close with his current partner; Diana Fowley (season 5, episode 20, \"The End\"). None of those remained longterm and stable.\n\nMulder's closest friend was FBI partner Dana Scully, who was assigned to \"debunk [his] work\" by the conspirators and the FBI brass. But against their intentions, her loyalties quickly became affixed to Mulder's quest and Mulder himself, a connection which seemed to pull Mulder's work out of obscurity, as Scully's scientific bent afforded them a certain amount of credibility. Their intense professional and personal relationship continued to strengthen through the years. While the relationship was platonic for the greater part of the series, there are clues that it developed into a romantic one by the last few seasons. Mulder and Scully almost always called each other by their surnames – Mulder purportedly hated his first name, but Scully had no such aversion. At the fourth episode of season seven the romantic undertones were confirmed when the two shared a kiss. In the series finale, the very last scene depicted Mulder and Scully after running away together, in bed together, contemplating what the future held. In the season 11 finale Scully revealed to be pregnant with his unborn child.\n\nMulder's greatest nemesis was The Smoking Man, who, despite his obvious ill-intent, seemed to hold Mulder in special regard. Though he mocked Mulder to his face for his foolishness and the futility of his quest, in \"Two Fathers\", he told his son Jeffrey Spender, \"You pale to Fox Mulder.\" Mulder also developed an intense enmity for Alex Krycek, a double agent who briefly worked with Mulder in the FBI as an infiltrator, and who continued to serve as a recurring adversary, acting as an assassin for the Syndicate in the murders of Bill Mulder and Melissa Scully.\n\nDuchovny portrays Mulder as a series regular for the first seven seasons of the show. Duchovny left the show following the seventh-season finale \"Requiem\", wherein he was abducted by aliens. Although he makes a handful of cameos in the first part of season eight—most notably in the episodes \"Within\", \"Without\", \"The Gift\", and \"Per Manum\"—Mulder is returned by the aliens and the latter part of the season deals with his death, subsequent resurrection, and his departure from the FBI. After the conclusion of the eighth season, Duchovny left the show, and only appeared in four ninth-season episodes: \"Trust No 1\", \"Jump the Shark\", \"William\", and \"The Truth\". Duchovny's appearances in \"Trust No 1\" and \"Jump the Shark\" were via archival footage, and he only made a small cameo in the third. However, his appearance in \"The Truth\", the program's series finale, was substantial, and Duchovny was once again listed in the credits as starring.\n\nDavid Duchovny had worked in Los Angeles three years prior to \"The X-Files\". At first he wanted to base his acting career around films, but in 1993 his manager Melanie Green gave him a script of the \"pilot episode\" of \"The X-Files\". Green and Duchovny were both convinced it was a good script, so Duchovny auditioned for the lead. When Duchovny was auditioning for the part of Fox Mulder, he made a \"terrific\" audition, but talked rather slowly. Chris Carter thought that he was a \"good judge of character\", and thought that Duchovny wasn't too \"bright\". So he talked to Duchovny and asked him if he could \"please\" imagine himself as an FBI agent for the \"future\" weeks. The casting director of the show was very positive about him, while according to Carter, Duchovny turned out to be one of the best-read people he knew. After getting the role, Duchovny thought the show wouldn't last for long or that it wouldn't make as much impact as it did.\n\nCarter has said that he named Mulder after his mother's maiden name. His first name, Fox, was actually not a tribute to the Fox network which aired \"The X-Files\", as often assumed - Carter said he had a childhood friend named Fox. When Duchovny got the script many of his characteristics were \"fully formed\". Executive producer Frank Spotnitz called portraying actor Duchovny \"amazingly smart\". He further stated that Duchovny was behind some of the main characteristic ideas behind Mulder.\n\nAt the end of the seventh season Duchovny was in negotiations with the Fox network, saying he wanted more money (while not saying how much) and an improved work schedule, among other issues. After settling his contract dispute, portraying actor Duchovny quit full-time participation in the show after the seventh season. This contributed to uncertainties over the likelihood of an eighth season. Carter and most fans felt the show was at its natural endpoint with Duchovny's departure, but it was decided Mulder would be abducted at the end of the seventh season, leaving things open for the actor's return in 12 episodes the following year. Duchovny's character Mulder was replaced by John Jay Doggett (portrayed by Robert Patrick). In season nine, Duchovny wasn't available for shooting, so he only appeared in three episodes with small cameos, the first being an archive footage only in \"Trust No 1\", a brief cameo in \"William\", which he also directed and appeared full-time in the series finale, \"The Truth\".\n\nAfter the show ended, Carter and Frank Spotnitz started to talk about a movie sequel. Duchovny stated in an interview that very same year that it always had been a \"desire\" to come back to the franchise, saying it was a \"natural\" stage of development for the franchise to go to the cinema. When talking about Mulder in \"\", Duchovny said that he wanted to play him a \"little different\". He continued saying that Mulder had \"lost every battle\" saying he was \"beaten down by life [...]. He's the same guy, but he is older Mulder\".\n\nMulder had a brief cameo on \"The Lone Gunmen\", an \"X-Files\" spin-off featuring the characters of the same name. He appeared on the episode \"All About Yves\". In the \"Millennium\" episode \"Lamentation\", the main character, Frank Black, visits the FBI Academy in Quantico, Virginia, and Mulder and Dana Scully are briefly seen descending a stairway. In fact, they are Duchovny and Andersons' stand-ins.\n\nDuchovny was nominated for two Emmy Awards in 1997 and 1998 in the category \"Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series\", but lost. He was nominated for a Golden Globe Award in 1995 in the category \"Best Actor – Drama Series\". Two years later he was again nominated for a Golden Globe in the same category and won, in 1997 and 1998 he was nominated in the same category but didn't win. Duchovny has been nominated five times in the category \"Outstanding Actor – Drama Series\" by the Screen Actors Guild awards but didn't win once. Duchovny won a Satellite Award in the category \"Best Actor – Drama Series\" in 1997, and was nominated once again 1998.\n\nAnimated versions of Mulder appeared on \"The Simpsons\" and \"Eek! the Cat\" (both series which have been featured in episodes of The X-Files), in the episodes \"The Springfield Files\" and \"Eek Space-9\", respectively. Both featured the voice acting of Duchovny. Duchovny appeared as Mulder on the sketch show \"Saturday Night Live\" with Molly Shannon as Scully, when he hosted an episode. Joining him was co-star Nicholas Lea, who would appear as Alex Krycek in a sketch that spoofed \"The X-Files\".\n\n\"New York Times\" writer Joyce Millman said that \"Twin Peaks\" character Special agent Dale Cooper could have been Mulder's \"quirky [...] spiritual twin\" if David Duchovny hadn't appeared in the show earlier. When reviewing \"\", reviewer Moira Macdonald said it was a \"kick\" watching Duchovny and Gillian Anderson (portrayed Dana Scully). Jesse Hassenger from \"PopMatters\" when reviewing season eight, was throughout negative to the new season, claiming that Patrick was miscast and calling David Duchovny's appearances as Mulder shallow. Critics and fans alike have praised Duchovny and Anderson's \"on-screen chemistry\" for years. Richard Corliss from \"Time\" magazine praised Duchovny for settling in his role so \"quickly\" and calling the character \"an obsessive plodder\". Robert Patrick, the actor who replaced Duchovny as the male lead after the seventh season, commented that the chemistry Duchovny and Gillian Anderson had could only happen \"once in a lifetime\".\n\n\"TV Guide\" ranked Fox Mulder #7 in its \"50 Greatest Sci-Fi Legends\" list.\n"}
{"id": "3677513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3677513", "title": "Francesc Eiximenis", "text": "Francesc Eiximenis\n\nFrancesc Eiximenis, OFM () was a Franciscan Catalan writer who lived in the 14th-century Crown of Aragon. He was possibly one of the more successful medieval Catalan writers, since his works were widely read, copied, published and translated. Therefore, it can be said that both in the literary and in the political sphere he had a lot of influence. Among his readers were numbered important people of his time, such as the kings of the Crown of Aragon Peter IV, John I and Martin I, the queen Maria de Luna (wife of Martin I), and the Pope of Avignon Benedict XIII.\n\nFrancesc Eiximenis was born around 1330, possibly in Girona. When he was very young, he became a Franciscan and his education began in the Franciscan schools of Catalonia. Later, he attended the most important universities of Europe: the University of Oxford and the University of Paris. The University of Oxford influenced him notably, since the Franciscans had there an important school. Thus, several English Franciscans (and British authors in general) are the thinkers who most influenced Eiximenis, such as Robert Grosseteste (whom Eiximenis calls \"Linconiensis\", since he was bishop of Lincoln), John of Wales, Richard Kilvington, Alexander of Hales, Richard of Middleton, Thomas Bradwardine, William of Ockham, John Duns Scotus.\n\nIn 1371 there was an attempt to bring him to the University of Lleida as a teacher. But he lacked the title of Doctor in Theology (\"magister in sacra pagina\"), and so this attempt did not go further. Eiximenis acquired this title in 1374 at the University of Toulouse, with the financial help and support from the king Peter IV.\n\nEiximenis subsequently returned to Catalonia, where he was considered very intellectual. He was on good terms with the Court of the Crown Of Aragon and with the ruling social class of Barcelona and València. Most of his works were written in Valencia, where he stayed from 1382 to 1408. There he was consultant of the \"jurats\" (the city representatives) and of the \"Consell\" (ruling organ of the city).\n\nIn Valencia Eiximenis' activity, besides his literary tasks, was tireless. 1391 was a very difficult year for the city and kingdom of Valencia, since there were many social problems. Then Eiximenis organized a kind of \"praying army\" in some monasteries and convents around Valencia. In 1392 he and other people received the assignment of checking the Jewish books that were stolen during the 1391 pogrom. At te end of 1397 he was member of a commission that should advise king Martin I about the Western Schism. In 1397 and 1398 he undertook the organization of two crusades of Valencians and Majorcans against the Muslim pirates of North Africa. In 1399 Eiximenis was also president of a commission that sought to unify all the schools of Valencia. The Consell (ruling organ of Valencia) rejected that in 1400, but this attempt was anyway a clear first step towards the University of Valencia, that was founded officially in 1499. The last years of Eiximenis in Valencia (1404–1408) were devoted to the foundation and endowment of the Franciscan convent of Sant Esperit (in Gilet, near Sagunto). This convent was founded by the queen Maria de Luna.\n\nIn 1408 Eiximenis took part in the Council of Perpignan. There the Pope of Avignon Benedict XIII appointed him first Patriarch of Jerusalem and later apostolic administrator (interim bishop) of the diocese of Elna (ancient name of the diocese of Perpignan).\n\nEiximenis died in Perpignan possibly 23 April 1409.\n\nEiximenis wrote the following works in Catalan: \n\nEiximenis wrote the following works in Latin: \n\nTwo other books have been attributed to Eiximenis: the \"Cercapou\", and the \"Doctrina compendiosa\". The \"Doctrina Compendiosa\" shows however a very strong influence from Eiximenis' political theories. there was also an adaptation of \"Llibre de las Dones\" in Spanish, which was called \"Carro de las Donas\".\n\nEiximenis' works had much success in his time, as evidenced by more than 200 manuscripts of his works that have survived. Another example was the \"Psaltiri devotíssim\" (Translation into Catalan of 100 out of the 344 prayers of the \"Psalterium alias Laudatorium\"). The incunabulum edition of this book had 2000 copies, i.e. more than double both editions of the Tirant lo Blanc (Valencia 1490 and Barcelona 1497). It was the biggest incunabulum edition of the whole medieval Catalan literature.\n\nThere were also a lot of translations during the 15th and 16th centuries. The \"Llibre de les Dones\" was translated into Spanish. One of the Spanish translations was used for the education of the four daughters of the Catholic Monarchs. The \"Llibre dels Àngels\" had great international success and was translated into several languages: Spanish, Latin, French and even Flemish (it was possibly the only book from the medieval Catalan literature that was translated into that language). And the \"Vida de Jesucrist\" was translated into Spanish and French.\n\nThere are finally two other examples that show the international spreading of Eiximenis' works. First of all, the French translation of the \"Llibre dels Àngels\" was the first book that in 1478 was printed in Geneva. Secondly, the Spanish translation of the \"Vida de Jesucrist\" was the first book that was printed in Granada in 1496 after the conquest of the city by the Catholic Monarchs.\n\nUnfortunately we have few modern editions of Eiximenis' works. Most of the modern editions of his works have been prepared by Curt Wittlin and by Albert Hauf.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n in Spanish, \n in English, \nand in Occitan\n\n\n"}
{"id": "735944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=735944", "title": "Freewinds", "text": "Freewinds\n\nMV \"Freewinds is a cruise ship operated by International Shipping Partners and owned by San Donato Properties, which is a company affiliated with the Church of Scientology. It was built in 1968 by Wärtsilä Turku Shipyard in Turku, Finland for Wallenius Lines as MS \"Bohème for service with Commodore Cruise Line. It was the first cruise ship built in Finland. Its ownership passed to a Church of Scientology-controlled company in 1985.\n\nThe ship that eventually became known as the \"Freewinds\" was originally ordered by the Sweden-based Lion Ferry as the second in a pair of two car/passenger ferries for use on their new Bremerhaven (West Germany)–Harwich (United Kingdom) service, with provisions made for cruise service during the northern hemisphere winter season. The ships shared the same design as and , that were under construction for Finnlines at Wärtsilä Helsinki Shipyard at the time. The ships ordered by Lion Ferry were built at Wärtsilä's Turku Shipyard, and the first of them, , was delivered to her owners on 14 May 1966. However, the passenger demand on the Bremerhaven–Harwich route proved to be insufficient for two ships, and Lion Ferry cancelled the order for a second ship, which was to be named \"Prins Albert\".\n\nMeanwhile, the newly founded Commodore Cruise Line was looking for ships to operate on cruises around the Caribbean. An agreement was reached where the build contract of the half-complete ship was sold to the Sweden-based Wallenius Lines, who would have the ship completed as a cruise ship, and following completion she would be chartered to Commodore Cruise Lines. Following their tradition of naming ships after operas, Wallenius decided to name the ship \"Bohème\", after La bohème. Cabins were added in place of the car decks on the ship (although bow or stern doors were never fitted on her), and her superstructure was redesigned to better accommodate the need for sundeck space in the warmer climates. The \"Bohème\" was delivered to Wallenius Bremen, Wallenius Lines' West Germany-based subsidiary, on 12 November 1968. She was registered in West Germany, with Bremerhaven as her home port.\n\nFollowing delivery the \"Bohème\" sailed to Stockholm, the location of Wallenius Lines' headquarters, for a presentation to invited guests. On departing Stockholm for Miami she carried her first paying passengers on board. Her maiden voyage was cut short however, as she hit an underwater cliff outside Dalarö in the Stockholm Archipelago. The cliff breached the ship's hull and fuel tanks. Lifeboats were used to evacuate all passengers from the listing ship, and three days later she was refloated and towed to the Finnboda shipyard in Nacka for week-long repairs. After the repairs she again left for Miami, this time without passengers.\n\nOn 7 December 1968 the \"Bohème\" left on her first cruise from Miami to Saint Thomas. During her first year in service the ship had notable problems with her air conditioning due to the shipyard's inexperience with building ships for the warm Caribbean climate. As a result, she returned to Europe in 1980, sailing to the Blohm + Voss shipyard in Hamburg, West Germany where the air conditioning system was rebuilt, an additional screw compressor as well as two freshwater generators were installed. Following the rebuild the \"Bohème\" re-entered service with an itinerary of Miami–Puerto Plata–Saint Thomas–San Juan–Cap-Haïtien–Miami. She followed the same itinerary around the year, becoming the first ship to offer around-the-year seven-night cruises from Miami. She was also the first cruise ship to call at Puerto Plata and the first to offer regular sailings to Cap Haitien.\n\nIn March 1981 Commodore Cruise Line, as well as the \"Bohème\", were sold to the Finland-based Rederi Ab Sally. The new owners re-registered the \"Bohème\" to Panama, which resulted in most of the German officers resigning due to worsened working conditions. The resigned officers were replaced with Scandinavians. The following year the German deck and engine crews were replaced by Filipinos. Originally the new crew members were meant for , a former ocean liner (ex Gripsholm 1957) Sally had purchased for conversion into service with Commodore Cruise Line. However, after the \"Navarino\" was severely damaged due to capsizing of the drydock, the conversion plans were abandoned. The crew already hired for the \"Navarino\" was transferred to the \"Bohème\".\n\nBetween November 1982 and August 1983 the \"Bohème\" was chartered to the Brazilia-based Saitecin Cruises for cruises around South America. She also made one cruise from Miami under this charter. Following this charter the ship again returned to West Germany to be rebuilt, this time in Bremerhaven, where two new diesel generators were installed and much of the interior decorations replaced. While in Bremerhaven she also received a new external livery. On returning to service in 1984 the \"Bohème\" was placed on a new Miami–Port-au-Prince–Port Antonio–Grand Cayman–Coromuel–Miami itinerary. The schedule proved to be too tight to maintain, especially in poor weather conditions. With engine problems causing further problems, this itinerary only lasted until November 1984, when the ship was chartered to SeaEscape for their Miami–Freeport ferry service.\n\nIn February 1985 the \"Bohème\" returned to Commodore Cruise Line service. Her port of departure was changed to Saint Petersburg, Florida to better cater to the needs of Commodore's main clientele, the retired people living on Florida's west coast. The ship's new seven-day itinerary was Saint Petersburg–Key West–Port Antonio–Cozumel–Saint Petersburg. The new route proved to be short-lived, as the \"Bohème\" was sold to San Donato Properties Corporation in September 1986 for US$10 million (), to be converted for use with the Church of Scientology.\n\nIn 1984, the Church of Scientology's parent body, the Church of Scientology International (CSI), decided to obtain a ship on which to deliver high-level Scientology courses. According to a statement by the Church,\nCSI believed that an ocean-going vessel would be the most appropriate facility for ministering New OT VIII because this advanced level of religious service requires a completely safe, aesthetic and distraction-free environment and because L. Ron Hubbard, the religion's founder, had researched and ministered the first OT levels aboard a ship in the late 1960s. A ship therefore would have particular religious significance to Scientologists.\nAn entity called the Flag Ship Trust (FST) was formed in December 1985 with the aid of a $5 million donation from the International Association of Scientologists. In September 1986, the Flag Ship Trust purchased \"Bohème\", renamed her \"Freewinds\" and refitted her to enable its use for Scientology purposes. The vessel was put into service in June 1988.\n\nThe ownership and management of the vessel was organized through a complicated web of Scientology-run corporations and entities, most of which are owned by the Flag Ship Trust. It is owned by San Donato Properties, a Panamanian corporation of which FST is the sole shareholder. Another FST-owned Panamanian corporation, Transcorp Services, owns the mortgage on the \"Freewinds\". FSS Organization was a Netherlands Antilles corporation responsible for paying certain taxes on the vessel to the Netherlands Antilles authorities. Scientology courses are delivered aboard the vessel by the Flag Ship Service Organization (FSSO), in effect a floating branch of the Church of Scientology. Majestic Cruise Lines is a Panamanian corporation which operates the \"Freewinds\", receiving payment from FSSO for the use of the ship. MCL Services is a corporation in the Netherlands Antilles that provides shore support and liaison services for Majestic Cruise Lines and FSSO from the home port of the \"Freewinds\"', Curaçao.\n\nFollowing the Church of Scientology's tax exemption agreement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service in 1993, these arrangements were simplified. The responsibilities of the Majestic Cruise Lines were to be transferred to FSSO, with Majestic itself being dissolved, and FSS Organization being dissolved as it was no longer required for tax reporting purposes in the Netherlands Antilles. However, the Majestic company remains in existence and is still actively billing visitors to the \"Freewinds\".\n\nThe \"Freewinds\" is the fifth ship to be owned by the Church of Scientology. The other four have been the (later the \"Apollo\"), the \"Enchanter\" (later the \"Diana\"), the \"Avon River\" (later the \"Athena\"), and the \"Nekambi\", all of which have been scrapped, apparently. However, the nameplate of the \"Diana\" has been preserved and is on display aboard the \"Freewinds\". The church also operated two World War II surplus ships during the late 1960s through the early 1970s. These were the \"Bolivar\", a subchaser, and the T.S.M.Y. \"Excalibur\". Both of these vessels were docked at San Pedro, California, and they were used for training new Sea Org members.\n\nThe \"Freewinds\" is the exclusive training center for OT VIII (Operating Thetan Level 8), the highest level of Scientology and the last of the published OT levels. Members of the Church of Scientology who have reached the highest levels must receive their training on the \"Freewinds\", as the Church does not deliver this service anywhere else.\n\nBesides the OT VIII training, the \"Freewinds\" is used for delivering lower-level classes, auditing services, and recreational activities for Scientologists. The ship hosts a \"Freewinds Maiden Voyage\" each June as an \"OT Summit\" for high-ranking Scientologists at which Scientology accomplishments and plans for the future are publicly celebrated.\n\nA significant portion of the ship is given over to its use as a religious retreat for Scientologists. As well as various course rooms and a library of L. Ron Hubbard books, the \"Freewinds\" has areas given over to the Religious Technology Center, Sea Org and International Association of Scientologists. As is common practice in other Scientology organizations, the ship also has an \"LRH Office\" symbolically set aside for L. Ron Hubbard's use (Hubbard died in January 1986, approximately nine months before the vessel was purchased).\n\nValeska Paris, a former Scientology staff member on the ship, has alleged that she was held on the ship against her will and forced into manual labor for 12 years.\n\nThe \"Freewinds\" often hosts local functions in the ports it frequents, such as jazz concerts and movie performances in Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao. These events are usually free but often support island charities through entrance fees or suggested donations. Local artists are often showcased. It also caters to different international conferences and events. The ship's leisure facilities include a restaurant, lounge, cabaret, swimming pool, movie theater and beauty salon.\n\nIn April 2008, the \"Freewinds\" was shut down after cancer-causing blue asbestos was discovered by government health inspectors during maintenance by the Curaçao Drydock Company. Blue asbestos is the most dangerous form of asbestos, and the ship is reported to be \"extensively contaminated\". According to InsuranceNewsNet, \"Decontamination, if it is even possible, is likely to cost tens of millions of dollars and would result in the ship being in dry dock for many months.\"\n\nThe discovery confirmed a 2001 allegation by former Scientologist Lawrence Woodcraft, who had overseen the original renovation of the \"Freewinds\" in 1987. The Captain also admitted that during previous maintenance performed by his personnel, asbestos was released into the ventilation system but not reported.\n\nThe Church of Scientology denied that there is an asbestos problem, commenting in May 2008 that \"there is not now and never has been a situation of asbestos exposure on the Freewinds.\" Karin Pouw, spokesperson for the Church of Scientology, told \"Radar Magazine\" that the air quality on the ship was regularly tested and \"always meets or exceeds US standards\". The Church contracted Nordica Engineering to perform renovations on the \"Freewinds\" and denied the presence of blue asbestos during talks. To remove material from the ship, Nordica brought in 240 Polish workers, who lived on the \"Freewinds\" for a month and a half. When workers told Nordica there was blue asbestos on the ship, they stopped renovations and workers returned to Poland. Witold Maliński stated that Nordica was looking to demand compensation on behalf of its workers.\n\nThe \"Freewinds\" has been noted in Bonaire for the amount of waste water it dumps into the island's inland waste pit.\n\nThe exterior design of the \"Bohème/Freewinds\" is very similar to the \"Finnhansa\" class ships built as ferries. She has a moderately raked and slightly rounded bow, rounded forward superstructure, terraced rear superstructure and two slim side-by-side funnels. She differs from her sisters with the superstructure expanding further on promenade deck (on the other ships it only extends as far as the bridge), swimming pool added to the rear of promenade deck, and the observation lounge missing from the topmost deck; this was replaced by an open sunbathing area.\n\nAs built the \"Bohème\" was painted in Wallenius Lines livery, with an all-white hull and superstructure, yellow radar mast and yellow funnels with a wide horizontal green stripe painted on them and the letters OW (for Olof Wallenius) painted on the stripe. The ship only kept this livery until her first visit to Miami, where she was repainted in the Commodore Cruise Line livery, with white funnels and radar mast. A dark blue decorative stripe was later painted on the hull. During the 1983 refit the livery of the \"Bohème\" was more radically altered, when blue stripes were painted along the windows on main and promenade decks, as well as the bridge windows. The funnels were re-painted with a spray-shaped design in blue, red and yellow.\n\nFollowing acquisition by the Church of Scientology the ship's external appearance was changed slightly from the final Commodore livery; the \"Freewinds\" received dark blue funnels with the Majestic Cruise Lines logo on them, while an intricate combination of Scientology-related symbols was painted on both sides of the hull (pictured on the right). Additionally three decorative ribands were painted on the side of the hull towards the rear.\n\nMembers of the Wallenius family were heavily involved in the interior design of the \"Bohème\". Margareta Wallenius in particular dedicated her interest to the interiors of the ship, having her say in the materials used and works of art brought in from promising artists in Paris. Reflecting the company tradition of naming ships after operas, all public rooms on board were originally named after themes related to Puccini's \"La bohème\", the opera that had given its name to the ship itself.\n\nCompared to her sisters built for ferry service, cabins were built on the planned car-deck on the B- and C-decks on the \"Bohème\". The car decks had in fact been originally planned to accommodate temporary cabin modules during the winter when Lion Ferry, the company that had originally ordered the \"Bohème\", planned to use her for cruising to the Canary Isles. Additionally a small gymnasium and cinema were added in place of cargo hold on D-deck. All stairways and public rooms were panelled in light Nordic woods, while the deluxe cabins received dark oak panelings. During the 1983 refit much of the original panelling was replaced either by colourful paintings or mirrors to give an increased sense of space. Similarly much of the upholstery and carpets were changed into cheerier colours.\n\nOnly including spaces accessible to passengers.\n\n\nOnly including spaces accessible to passengers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17647738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17647738", "title": "Gavaevodata", "text": "Gavaevodata\n\nGavaevodata (\"\") is the Avestan language name of the primordial bovine of Zoroastrian cosmogony and cosmology, one of Ahura Mazda's six primordial material creations and the mythological progenitor of all beneficent animal life.\n\nThe primordial beast is killed in the creation myth, but from its marrow, organs and \"cithra\" the world is repopulated with animal life. The soul of the primordial bovine – \"geush urvan\" – returned to the world as the soul of livestock. Although \"geush urvan\" is an aspect of the primordial bovine in Zoroastrian tradition, and may also be that in the Younger Avesta, the relationship between the two is unclear in the oldest texts.\n\nAlthough Avestan \"gav-\" \"cow\" is grammatically feminine, the word is also used as a singular for the collective \"cattle\". In English language translations Gavaevodata is often referred to in gender-neutral terms as \"primordial ox\". Other translations refer to Gavaevodata as a bull (\"cf.\" ). The \"-aevo.data\" of the name literally means \"created as one\" or \"solely created\" or \"uniquely created\".\n\nGavaevodata is only alluded to in the surviving texts of the Avesta, referred to by name in only two hymns. In other instances, for example in \"Yasht\" 13.85, the primordial beast is mentioned among the six material creations, but not by name. Elsewhere, such as in the Gathic Avestan \"Yasna Haptanghaiti\", prayers are offered on behalf of the soul of the cow (\"geush urvan\", \"Y.\" 35), or worship is offered to \"the cow's soul, and to her created body\" (\"Y\". 39), but in neither case is Gavaevodata mentioned by name, nor is it clear (unlike in Zoroastrian tradition) whether the soul of the cow is the soul of Gavaevodata.\n\nThis is also the case for \"The Cow's Lament\" in \"Yasna\" 29, which – as a \"Gatha\" – is attributed to Zoroaster himself, and is thus the subject of a great deal of interpretation. In this allegorical text, the soul of the cow (\"geush urvan\") despairs over the wretched condition to which the forces of deceit (\"druj\") have subjected her (see myth, below), and over her lack of protection from an adequate herdsman. The divinities hold council, and decide that Zoroaster is the only one who can alleviate her condition. At first she laments even more, holding Zoroaster to be incompetent, but finally accepts his assistance.\n\nAt least two levels of meaning have been inferred from this text (): The maltreated creature symbolizes the plight of Zoroaster's community, and the soul of the primordial beast is a metaphor for the message that Zoroaster has received from Mazda. In verse 3 of the litany to the moon (\"Mah Niyayesh\" 3), Gavaevodata is invoked as (or together with) the \"bovine of many species\" in the care of the moon Mah, specifically \"måŋha- gaociθra-\" \"the moon that keeps in it the \"cithra\" of cattle,\" which is a stock epithet of \"Mah\" (\"Yasht\" 7.3, 7.5, 7.6, \"GBd\" VIe.2-3, VII.5-6 etc.)\n\nIn the 30 hymns to the divinities of the Zoroastrian calendar month, Gavaevodata is again invoked in the verses nominally dedicated to the Moon. In both \"Siroza\" 1.12 and 2.12, Mah is again referred to as \"the Moon containing the \"cithra\" of cattle,\" and Gavaevodata is again referred to as (or in the company of) the \"Bovine of many species.\"\n\nThe mythology of the \"uniquely created bovine\" that is only alluded to in the extant Avesta appears fully developed in the 9th-11th century Middle Persian texts of Zoroastrian tradition. In these texts, Avestan Gavaevodata appears as Middle Persian \"gaw i ew-dad\" or \"ewazdad\" or \"ewagdad,\" and retains the same literal meaning as the Avestan language form.\n\nAs also for all other Zoroastrian cosmological beliefs, the primary source of information on the primordial ox is the \"Bundahishn\", a 9th-century text. In this text, the primordial ox is a hermaphrodite, having both milk (\"Ibd\" 43.15) and semen (\"Ibd\" 94.4). It is \"white, bright like the moon, and three measured poles in height\" (\"Gbd\" Ia.12). The uniquely created ox lived its life on the river Veh. Daiti (\"Gbd\" Ia.12), and on the opposite bank lived Gayomart/d (Avestan \"Gayo maretan\"), the mythical first human.\n\nGawi ewdad's role in the creation myth runs as follows: During the first three-thousand year period, Ahura Mazda's (\"Ormuzd\") fashioned the bovine as His fourth or fifth of six primordial material creations. At the beginning of the second three-thousand year period, Angra Mainyu (\"Ahriman\") attacked the world, and the Creator responded by placing the primordial plant, bovine, and human in the respective heavenly spheres of the stars, moon and sun (\"IBd\" 7). But Ahriman assaulted the sky and Ormuzd fed the bovine \"medicinal \"mang\"\" (\"mang bēšaz\") to lessen its suffering (\"GBd\" IV.20). The bull immediately became feeble, and then died.\n\nBut as it lay dying its \"chihr\" was rescued and carried to \"the moon station.\" In the care of the moon, the \"chihr\" of the beast was purified and became the male and female pairs of the animals \"of many species.\" After the ox's death, fifty-five kinds of grain and twelve kinds of medicinal plants grew from its marrow (\"Ibd\" 10). In another passage (\"Ibd\" 93.11, \"cf\" an equivalent passage in \"Zadspram\"), the \"Bundahishn\" speaks of sesame, lentils, leeks, grapes, mustard and marjoram issuing from various other parts of its body. For example, lentils from the liver and mustard from the lungs (\"Ibd\" 14.1, \"Gbd\" XIII.2). \n\nGoshorun (from Avestan \"geush urvan\"), the soul of the primordial bovine, escaped to the star, moon, and sun stations where she lamented the destruction of the world. She was not placated until Ormuzd shows her the \"fravashi\" of the yet-unborn Zoroaster (whose protection she would receive). Contented with the promise of protection, Goshorun then agreed to be \"created back to the world in livestock.\" (\"Gbd\" IVa.2ff, \"Ibd\"' 46.3ff., \"Denkard\" p.9).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "296183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296183", "title": "Gyeyul", "text": "Gyeyul\n\nThe Gyeyul () school is the Korean name applied to a branch of Buddhism that specializes in the study of monastic discipline, or Vinaya. The Gyeyul school derives directly from the Indian \"Vinaya School\". .\n\nWhen Buddhism first came to Baekje in 384, it was introduced by a Serindian monk named Marananta, Buddhism was quickly embraced but largely unknown. So, a Korean monk named Gyeomik (겸익, 謙益) was sent to India to bring back more information. He is said to have traveled to India via the southern seas, studied Sanskrit and then came back to Baekje accompanied by another Indian monk, Paedalta (Vedatta?) and with many texts on the Vinaya and Abhidharma. Gyeomik translated these texts into Korean along with help from his disciples Tamuk and Hyerin and thus founded the Vinaya School in Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "7575091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7575091", "title": "Hans Christian Ørsted", "text": "Hans Christian Ørsted\n\nHans Christian Ørsted (; ; often rendered Oersted in English; 14 August 17779 March 1851) was a Danish physicist and chemist who discovered that electric currents create magnetic fields, which was the first connection found between electricity and magnetism. Oersted's law and the oersted (Oe) are named after him.\n\nA leader of the Danish Golden Age, Ørsted was a close friend of Hans Christian Andersen and the brother of politician and jurist Anders Sandøe Ørsted, who served as Prime Minister of Denmark from 1853 to 1854.\n\nØrsted was born in Rudkøbing in 1777. As a young boy he developed an interest in science while working for his father, who owned a pharmacy. He and his brother Anders received most of their early education through self-study at home, going to Copenhagen in 1793 to take entrance exams for the University of Copenhagen, where both brothers excelled academically. By 1796 Ørsted had been awarded honors for his papers in both aesthetics and physics. He earned his doctorate in 1799 for a dissertation based on the works of Kant entitled \"The Architectonics of Natural Metaphysics\".\n\nIn 1800, Alessandro Volta reported his invention of the voltaic pile, which inspired Ørsted to investigate the nature of electricity and to conduct his first electrical experiments. In 1801 Ørsted received a travel scholarship and public grant which enabled him to spend three years traveling across Europe. He toured science headquarters throughout the continent, including in Berlin and Paris.\n\nIn Germany Ørsted met Johann Wilhelm Ritter, a physicist who believed there was a connection between electricity and magnetism. This idea made sense to Ørsted as he subscribed to Kantian thought regarding the unity of nature. Ørsted's conversations with Ritter drew him into the study of physics. He became a professor at the University of Copenhagen in 1806 and continued research on electric currents and acoustics. Under his guidance the university developed a comprehensive physics and chemistry program and established new laboratories.\n\nØrsted welcomed William Christopher Zeise to his family home in autumn 1806. He granted Zeise a position as his lecturing assistant and took the young chemist under his tutelage. In 1812 Ørsted again visited Germany and France after publishing \"Videnskaben om Naturens Almindelige Love\" and \"Første Indledning til den Almindelige Naturlære\" (1811).\n\nØrsted was the first modern thinker to explicitly describe and name the thought experiment. He used the Latin-German term \"Gedankenexperiment\" circa 1812 and the German term \"Gedankenversuch\" in 1820. \n\nOn 21 April 1820, during a lecture, Ørsted noticed a compass needle deflected from magnetic north when an electric current from a battery was switched on and off, confirming a direct relationship between electricity and magnetism.\n\nHis initial interpretation was that magnetic effects radiate from all sides of a wire carrying an electric current, as do light and heat. Three months later he began more intensive investigations and soon thereafter published his findings, showing that an electric current produces a circular magnetic field as it flows through a wire. For his discovery, the Royal Society of London awarded Ørsted the Copley Medal in 1820 and the French Academy granted him 3,000 francs.\n\nØrsted's findings stirred much research into electrodynamics throughout the scientific community, influencing French physicist André-Marie Ampère's developments of a single mathematical formula to represent the magnetic forces between current-carrying conductors. Ørsted's work also represented a major step toward a unified concept of energy.\n\nØrsted was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1822 and a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1849.\n\nHe founded Selskabet for Naturlærens Udbredelse (SNU), a society to disseminate knowledge of the natural sciences, in 1824. He was also the founder of predecessor organizations which eventually became the Danish Meteorological Institute and the Danish Patent and Trademark Office.\nIn 1829, Ørsted founded Den Polytekniske Læreanstalt ('College of Advanced Technology') which was later renamed the Technical University of Denmark (DTU).\n\nIn 1825, Ørsted made a significant contribution to chemistry by producing aluminium for the first time. While an aluminium-iron alloy had previously been developed by Humphry Davy, Ørsted was the first to isolate the element via a reduction of aluminium chloride.\n\nØrsted died in Copenhagen in 1851, aged 73, and was buried in the Assistens Cemetery.\n\nThe centimetre-gram-second system (CGS) unit of magnetic induction (oersted) is named for his contributions to the field of electromagnetism.\n\nThe Ørsted Park in Copenhagen was named after Ørsted in 1879. The streets H.C. Ørsteds Vej in Frederiksberg and H. C. Ørsteds Allé in Galten are also named after him.\n\nThe buildings that are home to the Department of Chemistry and the Institute for Mathematical Sciences at the University of Copenhagen's North Campus are named the \"H.C. Ørsted Institute\", after him. A dormitory named H. C. Ørsted Kollegiet is located in Odense.\n\nThe first Danish satellite, launched 1999, was named after Ørsted.\n\nA statue of Hans Christian Ørsted was installed in the Ørsted Park in 1880. A commemorative plaque is located above the gate on the building in Studiestræde where he lived and worked. The 100 danske kroner note issued from 1950 to 1970 carried an engraving of Ørsted.\n\nTwo medals are awarded in Ørsted's name: the Oersted Medal for notable contributions in the teaching of physics in America, awarded by American Association of Physics Teachers, along with the H. C. Ørsted Medal for Danish scientists, awarded by the Danish \"Selskabet for Naturlærens Udbredelse\" (Society for the Dissemination of Natural Science), founded by Ørsted. \n\nThe H.C. Ørsted Lectureship is awarded to two prominent researchers annually.\n\nHere is a list of some of the previous H.C. Ørsted lecturers:\n\n\nØrsted was a published writer and poet. His poetry series \"Luftskibet\" (\"The Airship\") was inspired by the balloon flights of fellow physicist and stage magician Étienne-Gaspard Robert. Shortly before his death, he submitted a collection of articles for publication under the title \"The Soul in Nature\". The book presents Ørsted's life philosophy and views on a wide variety of issues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26335002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26335002", "title": "I Ching", "text": "I Ching\n\nThe I Ching (; ), also known as Classic of Changes or Book of Changes, is an ancient Chinese divination text and the oldest of the Chinese classics. Possessing a history of more than two and a half millennia of commentary and interpretation, the \"I Ching\" is an influential text read throughout the world, providing inspiration to the worlds of religion, psychoanalysis, literature, and art. Originally a divination manual in the Western Zhou period (1000750), over the course of the Warring States period and early imperial period (500200) it was transformed into a cosmological text with a series of philosophical commentaries known as the \"Ten Wings\". After becoming part of the Five Classics in the 2nd century BC, the \"I Ching\" was the subject of scholarly commentary and the basis for divination practice for centuries across the Far East, and eventually took on an influential role in Western understanding of Eastern thought.\n\nThe \"I Ching\" uses a type of divination called cleromancy, which produces apparently random numbers. Six numbers between 6 and 9 are turned into a hexagram, which can then be looked up in the \"I Ching\" book, arranged in an order known as the King Wen sequence. The interpretation of the readings found in the \"I Ching\" is a matter of centuries of debate, and many commentators have used the book symbolically, often to provide guidance for moral decision making as informed by Taoism and Confucianism. The hexagrams themselves have often acquired cosmological significance and paralleled with many other traditional names for the processes of change such as yin and yang and Wu Xing.\n\nThe core of the \"I Ching\" is a Western Zhou divination text called the \"Changes of Zhou\" (周易 \"Zhōu yì\"). Various modern scholars suggest dates ranging between the 10th and 4th centuries BC for the assembly of the text in approximately its current form. Based on a comparison of the language of the \"Zhou yi\" with dated bronze inscriptions, the American sinologist Edward Shaughnessy dated its compilation in its current form to the early decades of the reign of King Xuan of Zhou, in the last quarter of the 9th century BC. A copy of the text in the Shanghai Museum corpus of bamboo and wooden slips (recovered in 1994) shows that the \"Zhou yi\" was used throughout all levels of Chinese society in its current form by 300 BC, but still contained small variations as late as the Warring States period. It is possible that other divination systems existed at this time; the \"Rites of Zhou\" name two other such systems, the \"Lianshan\" and the \"Guizang\".\n\nThe name \"Zhou yi\" literally means the \"changes\" () of the Zhou dynasty. The \"changes\" involved have been interpreted as the transformations of hexagrams, of their lines, or of the numbers obtained from the divination. Feng Youlan proposed that the word for \"changes\" originally meant \"easy\", as in a form of divination easier than the oracle bones, but there is little evidence for this. There is also an ancient folk etymology that sees the character for \"changes\" as containing the sun and moon, the cycle of the day. Modern Sinologists believe the character to be derived either from an image of the sun emerging from clouds, or from the content of a vessel being changed into another.\n\nThe \"Zhou yi\" was traditionally ascribed to the Zhou cultural heroes King Wen of Zhou and the Duke of Zhou, and was also associated with the legendary world ruler Fu Xi. According to the canonical \"Great Commentary\", Fu Xi observed the patterns of the world and created the eight trigrams (), \"in order to become thoroughly conversant with the numinous and bright and to classify the myriad things.\" The \"Zhou yi\" itself does not contain this legend and indeed says nothing about its own origins. The \"Rites of Zhou\", however, also claims that the hexagrams of the \"Zhou yi\" were derived from an initial set of eight trigrams. During the Han dynasty there were various opinions about the historical relationship between the trigrams and the hexagrams. Eventually, a consensus formed around 2nd century AD scholar Ma Rong's attribution of the text to the joint work of Fu Xi, King Wen of Zhou, the Duke of Zhou, and Confucius, but this traditional attribution is no longer generally accepted.\n\nThe basic unit of the \"Zhou yi\" is the hexagram (卦 \"guà\"), a figure composed of six stacked horizontal lines (爻 \"yáo\"). Each line is either broken or unbroken. The received text of the \"Zhou yi\" contains all 64 possible hexagrams, along with the hexagram's name (卦名 \"guàmíng\"), a short hexagram statement (彖 \"tuàn\"), and six line statements (爻辭 \"yáocí\"). The statements were used to determine the results of divination, but the reasons for having two different methods of reading the hexagram are not known, and it is not known why hexagram statements would be read over line statements or vice versa.\n\nThe book opens with the first hexagram statement, \"yuán hēng lì zhēn\" (元亨利貞). These four words, translated traditionally by James Legge as \"originating and penetrating, advantageous and firm,\" are often repeated in the hexagram statements and were already considered an important part of \"I Ching\" interpretation in the 6th century BC. Edward Shaughnessy describes this statement as affirming an \"initial receipt\" of an offering, \"beneficial\" for further \"divining\".\nThe word \"zhēn\" (貞, ancient form ) was also used for the verb \"divine\" in the oracle bones of the late Shang dynasty, which preceded the Zhou. It also carried meanings of being or making upright or correct, and was defined by the Eastern Han scholar Zheng Xuan as \"to enquire into the correctness\" of a proposed activity.\n\nThe names of the hexagrams are usually words that appear in their respective line statements, but in five cases (2, 9, 26, 61, and 63) an unrelated character of unclear purpose appears. The hexagram names could have been chosen arbitrarily from the line statements, but it is also possible that the line statements were derived from the hexagram names. The line statements, which make up most of the book, are exceedingly cryptic. Each line begins with a word indicating the line number, \"base, 2, 3, 4, 5, top\", and either the number 6 for a broken line, or the number 9 for a whole line. Hexagrams 1 and 2 have an extra line statement, named \"yong\". Following the line number, the line statements may make oracular or prognostic statements. Some line statements also contain poetry or references to historical events.\n\nArchaeological evidence shows that Zhou dynasty divination was grounded in cleromancy, the production of seemingly random numbers to determine divine intent. The \"Zhou yi\" provided a guide to cleromancy that used the stalks of the yarrow plant, but it is not known how the yarrow stalks became numbers, or how specific lines were chosen from the line readings. In the hexagrams, broken lines were used as shorthand for the numbers 6 (六) and 8 (八), and solid lines were shorthand for values of 7 (七) and 9 (九). The \"Great Commentary\" contains a late classic description of a process where various numerological operations are performed on a bundle of 50 stalks, leaving remainders of 6 to 9. Like the \"Zhou yi\" itself, yarrow stalk divination dates to the Western Zhou period, although its modern form is a reconstruction.\n\nThe ancient narratives \"Zuo zhuan\" and \"Guoyu\" contain the oldest descriptions of divination using the \"Zhou yi\". The two histories describe more than twenty successful divinations conducted by professional soothsayers for royal families between 671 BC and 487 BC. The method of divination is not explained, and none of the stories employ predetermined commentaries, patterns, or interpretations. Only the hexagrams and line statements are used. By the 4th century BC, the authority of the \"Zhou yi\" was also cited for rhetorical purposes, without relation to any stated divination. The \"Zuo zhuan\" does not contain records of private individuals, but Qin dynasty records found at Shuihudi show that the hexagrams were privately consulted to answer questions such as business, health, children, and determining lucky days.\n\nThe most common form of divination with the \"I Ching\" in use today is a reconstruction of the method described in these histories, in the 300 BC \"Great Commentary\", and later in the \"Huainanzi\" and the \"Lunheng\". From the \"Great Commentary\"'s description, the Neo-Confucian Zhu Xi reconstructed a method of yarrow stalk divination that is still used throughout the Far East. In the modern period, Gao Heng attempted his own reconstruction, which varies from Zhu Xi in places. Another divination method, employing coins, became widely used in the Tang dynasty and is still used today. In the modern period, alternative methods such as specialized dice and cartomancy have also appeared.\n\nIn the \"Zuo zhuan\" stories, individual lines of hexagrams are denoted by using the genitive particle \"zhi\", followed by the name of another hexagram where that specific line had another form. In later attempts to reconstruct ancient divination methods, the word \"zhi\" was interpreted as a verb meaning \"moving to\", an apparent indication that hexagrams could be transformed into other hexagrams. However, there are no instances of \"changeable lines\" in the \"Zuo zhuan\". In all 12 out of 12 line statements quoted, the original hexagrams are used to produce the oracle.\n\nIn 136 BC, Emperor Wu of Han named the \"Zhou yi\" \"the first among the classics\", dubbing it the \"Classic of Changes\" or \"I Ching\". Emperor Wu's placement of the \"I Ching\" among the Five Classics was informed by a broad span of cultural influences that included Confucianism, Daoism, Legalism, yin-yang cosmology, and Wu Xing physical theory. While the \"Zhou yi\" does not contain any cosmological analogies, the \"I Ching\" was read as a microcosm of the universe that offered complex, symbolic correspondences. The official edition of the text was literally set in stone, as one of the Xiping Stone Classics. The canonized \"I Ching\" became the standard text for over two thousand years, until alternate versions of the \"Zhou yi\" and related texts were discovered in the 20th century.\n\nPart of the canonization of the \"Zhou yi\" bound it to a set of ten commentaries called the Ten Wings. The Ten Wings are of a much later provenance than the \"Zhou yi\", and are the production of a different society. The \"Zhou yi\" was written in Early Old Chinese, while the Ten Wings were written in a predecessor to Middle Chinese. The specific origins of the Ten Wings are still a complete mystery to academics. Regardless of their historical relation to the text, the philosophical depth of the Ten Wings made the \"I Ching\" a perfect fit to Han period Confucian scholarship. The inclusion of the Ten Wings reflects a widespread recognition in ancient China, found in the \"Zuo zhuan\" and other pre-Han texts, that the \"I Ching\" was a rich moral and symbolic document useful for more than professional divination.\n\nArguably the most important of the Ten Wings is the \"Great Commentary\" (\"Dazhuan\") or \"Xi ci\", which dates to roughly 300 BC. The \"Great Commentary\" describes the \"I Ching\" as a microcosm of the universe and a symbolic description of the processes of change. By partaking in the spiritual experience of the \"I Ching\", the \"Great Commentary\" states, the individual can understand the deeper patterns of the universe. Among other subjects, it explains how the eight trigrams proceeded from the eternal oneness of the universe through three bifurcations. The other Wings provide different perspectives on essentially the same viewpoint, giving ancient, cosmic authority to the \"I Ching\". For example, the \"Wenyan\" provides a moral interpretation that parallels the first two hexagrams, 乾 (qián) and 坤 (kūn), with Heaven and Earth, and the \"Shuogua\" attributes to the symbolic function of the hexagrams the ability to understand self, world, and destiny. Throughout the Ten Wings, there are passages that seem to purposefully increase the ambiguity of the base text, pointing to a recognition of multiple layers of symbolism.\n\nThe \"Great Commentary\" associates knowledge of the \"I Ching\" with the ability to \"delight in Heaven and understand fate;\" the sage who reads it will see cosmological patterns and not despair in mere material difficulties. The Japanese word for \"metaphysics\", \"keijijōgaku\" (形而上学; pinyin: \"xíng ér shàng xué\") is derived from a statement found in the \"Great Commentary\" that \"what is above form [\"xíng ér shàng\"] is called Dao; what is under form is called a tool\". The word has also been borrowed into Korean and re-borrowed back into Chinese.\n\nThe Ten Wings were traditionally attributed to Confucius, possibly based on a misreading of the \"Records of the Grand Historian\". Although it rested on historically shaky grounds, the association of the \"I Ching\" with Confucius gave weight to the text and was taken as an article of faith throughout the Han and Tang dynasties. The \"I Ching\" was not included in the burning of the Confucian classics, and textual evidence strongly suggests that Confucius did not consider the \"Zhou yi\" a \"classic\". An ancient commentary on the \"Zhou yi\" found at Mawangdui portrays Confucius as endorsing it as a source of wisdom first and an imperfect divination text second.\n\nIn the canonical \"I Ching\", the hexagrams are arranged in an order dubbed the King Wen sequence after King Wen of Zhou, who founded the Zhou dynasty and supposedly reformed the method of interpretation. The sequence generally pairs hexagrams with their upside-down equivalents, although in eight cases hexagrams are paired with their inversion. Another order, found at Mawangdui in 1973, arranges the hexagrams into eight groups sharing the same upper trigram. But the oldest known manuscript, found in 1987 and now held by the Shanghai Library, was almost certainly arranged in the King Wen sequence, and it has even been proposed that a pottery paddle from the Western Zhou period contains four hexagrams in the King Wen sequence. Whichever of these arrangements is older, it is not evident that the order of the hexagrams was of interest to the original authors of the \"Zhou yi\". The assignment of numbers, binary or decimal, to specific hexagrams is a modern invention.\n\nThe following table numbers the hexagrams in King Wen order.\n\nThe Sinologist Michael Nylan describes the \"I Ching\" as the best-known Chinese book in the world. In East Asia, it is a foundational text for the Confucian and Daoist philosophical traditions, while in the West, it attracted the attention of Enlightenment intellectuals and prominent literary and cultural figures.\n\nDuring the Eastern Han, \"I Ching\" interpretation divided into two schools, originating in a dispute over minor differences between different editions of the received text. The first school, known as New Text criticism, was more egalitarian and eclectic, and sought to find symbolic and numerological parallels between the natural world and the hexagrams. Their commentaries provided the basis of the School of Images and Numbers. The other school, Old Text criticism, was more scholarly and hierarchical, and focused on the moral content of the text, providing the basis for the School of Meanings and Principles. The New Text scholars distributed alternate versions of the text and freely integrated non-canonical commentaries into their work, as well as propagating alternate systems of divination such as the \"Taixuanjing\". Most of this early commentary, such as the image and number work of Jing Fang, Yu Fan and Xun Shuang, is no longer extant. Only short fragments survive, from a Tang dynasty text called \"Zhou yi jijie\".\n\nWith the fall of the Han, \"I Ching\" scholarship was no longer organized into systematic schools. The most influential writer of this period was Wang Bi, who discarded the numerology of Han commentators and integrated the philosophy of the Ten Wings directly into the central text of the \"I Ching\", creating such a persuasive narrative that Han commentators were no longer considered significant. A century later Han Kangbo added commentaries on the Ten Wings to Wang Bi's book, creating a text called the \"Zhouyi zhu\". The principal rival interpretation was a practical text on divination by the soothsayer Guan Lu.\n\nAt the beginning of the Tang dynasty, Emperor Taizong of Tang ordered Kong Yingda to create a canonical edition of the \"I Ching\". Choosing the 3rd-century \"Zhouyi zhu\" as the official commentary, he added to it a subcommentary drawing out the subtler levels of Wang Bi's explanations. The resulting work, the \"Zhouyi zhengi\", became the standard edition of the \"I Ching\" through the Song dynasty.\n\nBy the 11th century, the \"I Ching\" was being read as a work of intricate philosophy, as a jumping-off point for examining great metaphysical questions and ethical issues. Cheng Yi, patriarch of the Neo-Confucian Cheng–Zhu school, read the \"I Ching\" as a guide to moral perfection. He described the text as a way to for ministers to form honest political factions, root out corruption, and solve problems in government.\n\nThe contemporary scholar Shao Yong rearranged the hexagrams in a format that resembles modern binary numbers, although he did not intend his arrangement to be used mathematically. This arrangement, sometimes called the binary sequence, later inspired Leibnitz.\n\nThe 12th century Neo-Confucian Zhu Xi, cofounder of the Cheng–Zhu school, rejected both of the Han dynasty lines of commentary on the \"I Ching\", proposing that the text was a work of divination, not philosophy. However, he still considered it useful for understanding the moral practices of the ancients, called \"rectification of the mind\" in the \"Great Learning\". Zhu Xi's reconstruction of I Ching yarrow stalk divination, based in part on the \"Great Commentary\" account, became the standard form and is still in use today.\n\nAs China entered the early modern period, the \"I Ching\" took on renewed relevance in both Confucian and Daoist study. The Kangxi Emperor was especially fond of the \"I Ching\" and ordered new interpretations of it. Qing dynasty scholars focused more intently on understanding pre-classical grammar, assisting the development of new philological approaches in the modern period.\n\nIn 1557, the Korean Neo-Confucian Yi Hwang produced one of the most influential \"I Ching\" studies of the early modern era, claiming that the spirit was a principle (\"li\") and not a material force (\"qi\"). Hwang accused the Neo-Confucian school of having misread Zhu Xi. His critique proved influential not only in Korea but also in Japan. Other than this contribution, the \"I Ching\" was not central to the development of Korean Confucianism, and by the 19th century, \"I Ching\" studies were integrated into the \"silhak\" reform movement.\n\nIn medieval Japan, secret teachings on the \"I Ching\" were publicized by Rinzai Zen master Kokan Shiren and the Shintoist Yoshida Kanetomo. \"I Ching\" studies in Japan took on new importance in the Edo period, during which over 1,000 books were published on the subject by over 400 authors. The majority of these books were serious works of philology, reconstructing ancient usages and commentaries for practical purposes. A sizable minority focused on numerology, symbolism, and divination. During this time, over 150 editions of earlier Chinese commentaries were reprinted in Japan, including several texts that had become lost in China. In the early Edo period, writers such as Itō Jinsai, Kumazawa Banzan, and Nakae Toju ranked the \"I Ching\" the greatest of the Confucian classics. Many writers attempted to use the \"I Ching\" to explain Western science in a Japanese framework. One writer, Shizuki Tadao, even attempted to employ Newtonian mechanics and the Copernican principle within an \"I Ching\" cosmology. This line of argument was later taken up in China by the Qing scholar and official Zhang Zhidong.\n\nLeibniz, who was corresponding with Jesuits in China, wrote the first European commentary on the \"I Ching\" in 1703, arguing that it proved the universality of binary numbers and theism, since the broken lines, the \"0\" or \"nothingness\", cannot become solid lines, the \"1\" or \"oneness\", without the intervention of God. This was criticized by Hegel, who proclaimed that binary system and Chinese characters were \"empty forms\" that could not articulate spoken words with the clarity of the Western alphabet. In their discussion, \"I Ching\" hexagrams and Chinese characters were conflated into a single foreign idea, sparking a dialogue on Western philosophical questions such as universality and the nature of communication. In the 20th century, Jacques Derrida identified Hegel's argument as logocentric, but accepted without question Hegel's premise that the Chinese language cannot express philosophical ideas.\n\nAfter the Xinhai Revolution of 1911, the \"I Ching\" was no longer part of mainstream Chinese political philosophy, but it maintained cultural influence as China's most ancient text. Borrowing back from Leibniz, Chinese writers offered parallels between the \"I Ching\" and subjects such as linear algebra and logic in computer science, aiming to demonstrate that ancient Chinese cosmology had anticipated Western discoveries. The Sinologist Joseph Needham took the opposite stance, arguing that the \"I Ching\" had actually impeded scientific development by incorporating all physical knowledge into its metaphysics. The psychologist Carl Jung took interest in the possible universal nature of the imagery of the \"I Ching\", and he introduced an influential German translation by Richard Wilhelm by discussing his theories of archetypes and synchronicity. Jung wrote, \"Even to the most biased eye, it is obvious that this book represents one long admonition to careful scrutiny of one's own character, attitude, and motives.\" The book had a notable impact on the 1960s counterculture and on 20th century cultural figures such as Philip K. Dick, John Cage, Jorge Luis Borges, and Hermann Hesse.\n\nThe modern period also brought a new level of skepticism and rigor to \"I Ching\" scholarship. Li Jingchi spent several decades producing a new interpretation of the text, which was published posthumously in 1978. Gao Heng, an expert in pre-Qin China, reinvestigated its use as a Zhou dynasty oracle. Edward Shaughnessy proposed a new dating for the various strata of the text. New archaeological discoveries have enabled a deeper level of insight into how the text was used in the centuries before the Qin dynasty. Proponents of newly reconstructed Western Zhou readings, which often differ greatly from traditional readings of the text, are sometimes called the \"modernist school.\"\n\nThe \"I Ching\" has been translated into Western languages dozens of times. The most influential edition is the 1923 German translation of Richard Wilhelm, later translated to English by Cary Baynes. The earliest complete published \"I Ching\" translation in a Western language was a Latin translation done in the 1730s by Jesuit missionary Jean-Baptiste Régis that was published in Germany in the 1830s. Although Thomas McClatchie and James Legge had both translated the text in the 19th century, the text gained significant traction during the counterculture of the 1960s, with the translations of Wilhelm and John Blofeld attracting particular interest. Richard Rutt's 1996 translation incorporated much of the new archaeological and philological discoveries of the 20th century. Gregory Whincup's 1986 translation also attempts to reconstruct Zhou period readings.\n\nThe most commonly used English translations of the \"I Ching\" are:\n\nOther notable English translations include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "188280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188280", "title": "Imperial cult", "text": "Imperial cult\n\nAn imperial cult is a form of state religion in which an emperor or a dynasty of emperors (or rulers of another title) are worshipped as demigods or deities. \"Cult\" here is used to mean \"worship\", not in the modern pejorative sense. The cult may be one of personality in the case of a newly arisen Euhemerus figure, or one of national identity (e.g., Ancient Egyptian Pharaoh or Empire of Japan) or supranational identity in the case of a multi-ethnic state (e.g., Imperial China, Roman Empire). A \"divine king\" is a monarch who is held in a special religious significance by his subjects, and serves as both head of state and a deity or head religious figure. This system of government combines theocracy with an absolute monarchy.\n\nThe Ancient Egyptian pharaohs were, throughout ancient Egyptian history, believed to be incarnations of the deity Horus; thereby derived by being the son of Osiris, the afterlife deity, and Isis, goddess of marriage.\n\nThe Ptolemaic dynasty based its own legitimacy in the eyes of its Greek subjects on their association with, and incorporation into, the imperial cult of Alexander the Great.\n\nIn Imperial China, the Emperor was considered the Son of Heaven. The scion and representative of heaven on earth, he was the ruler of all under heaven, the bearer of the Mandate of Heaven, his commands considered sacred edicts. A number of legendary figures preceding the proper imperial era of China also hold the honorific title of emperor, such as the Yellow Emperor and the Jade Emperor.\n\nEven before the rise of the Caesars, there are traces of a \"regal spirituality\" in Roman society. In earliest Roman times the king was a spiritual and patrician figure and ranked higher than the \"flamines\" (priestly order), while later on in history only a shadow of the primordial condition was left with the sacrificial \"rex sacrorum\" linked closely to the plebeian orders.\n\nKing Numitor corresponds to the regal-sacred principle in early Roman history. Romulus, the legendary founder of Rome, was heroized into Quirinus, the \"undefeated god\", with whom the later Caesars identified and of whom they considered themselves incarnations.\n\nVarro spoke of the initiatory mystery and power of Roman regality (\"adytum et initia regis\"), inaccessible to the exoteric communality.\n\nIn Plutarch's \"Phyrro\", 19.5, the Greek ambassador declared amid the Roman Senate he felt instead like being in the midst of \"a whole assembly of Kings\".\n\nAs the Roman Empire developed the Imperial cult gradually developed more formally and constituted the worship of the Roman emperor as a god. This practice began at the start of the Empire under Augustus, and became a prominent element of Roman religion.\n\nThe cult spread over the whole Empire within a few decades, more strongly in the east than in the west. Emperor Diocletian further reinforced it when he demanded the \"proskynesis\" and adopted the adjective \"sacrum\" for all things pertaining to the imperial person.\n\nThe deification of emperors was gradually abandoned after the emperor Constantine I started supporting Christianity. However, the concept of the imperial person as \"sacred\" carried over, in a Christianized form, into the Byzantine Empire.\n\nIn ancient Japan, it was customary for every clan to claim descendancy from gods (\"ujigami\") and the royal family or clan tended to define their ancestor as the dominant or most important \"kami\" of the time. Later in history, this was considered common practice by noble families, and the head members of the family, including that of the imperial family, were not seen to be divine. Rather than establish sovereignty by the manner of claimed godhood over the nation however, the Emperor and the imperial family stood as the bond between the heavens and the earth by claims of descending from the goddess Amaterasu, instead dealing in affairs related with the gods than any major secular political event, with few cases scattered about history. It was not until the Meiji period and the establishment of the Empire, that the Emperor began to be venerated along with a growing sense of nationalism.\n\n\nDevaraja is the Hindu-Buddhist cult of deified royalty in Southeast Asia. It is simply described as Southeast Asian concept of divine king. The concept viewed the monarch (king) as the living god, the incarnation of the supreme god, often attributed to Shiva or Vishnu, on earth. The concept is closely related to Indian concept of Chakravartin (universal monarch). In politics, it is viewed as the divine justification of a king's rule. The concept gained its elaborate manifestations in ancient Java and Cambodia, where monuments such as Prambanan and Angkor Wat were erected to celebrate the king's divine rule on earth.\n\nIn the Medang kingdom, it was customary to erect a \"candi\" (temple) to honor the soul of a deceased king. The image inside the garbhagriha (inner sanctum) of the temple often portrayed the king as a god, since the soul was thought to be united with the god referred to, in svargaloka. It is suggested that the cult was the fusion of Hinduism with native Austronesian ancestor worship. In Java, the tradition of the divine king extended to the Kediri, Singhasari and Majapahit kingdoms in the 15th century. The tradition of public reverence to the King of Cambodia and King of Thailand is the continuation of this ancient devaraja cult. The Susuhunan of Surakarta and Sultan of Yogyakarta are the direct descendants of the Mataram Sultanate founded in the late 17th century, and was said to be the continuation of the Ancient 8th century Mataram kingdom.\n\nTibetan Buddhism uses the tulku system, an ancient way of finding the reincarnation of a previous deceased lama: they are usually young boys, sometimes of wealthy and influential families and sometimes of peasant families like the current 14th Dalai Lama, that are found and enthroned as the reincarnation of an enlightened person that has already deceased. Every tulku is still called on the title of Rinpoche and is given as much respect as his previous reincarnation. Complying with each and every wish of a child or adult tulku is not unusual. Tulkus lead responsible lives because of their status as a bodhisattva. While many tulkus are monks, some tulkus choose to lead lay lives with families of their own.\n\nSome examples of historic leaders who are often considered divine kings are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40641112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40641112", "title": "Irreligion in the Philippines", "text": "Irreligion in the Philippines\n\nIrreligion in the Philippines is particularly rare among Filipinos (see Religion in the Philippines), with Christianity being the dominant faith. Less than 0.1% of Filipinos lack a religious affiliation. It is difficult to quantify the number of atheists or agnostics in the Philippines as they are not officially counted in the census of the country, although the National Statistics Office (NSO) in 2010 gathered that 73,248 Filipinos have no religious affiliation or have answered \"none\". However, since 2011, the non-religious increasingly organized themselves. There is a stigma attached to being an atheist in the Philippines, and this necessitates many Filipino atheists to communicate with each other via the Internet, for example via the Philippine Atheism, Agnosticism and Secularism, Inc. formerly known as Philippine Atheists and Agnostics Society.\n\nAccording to the 2000 census, the religious distribution of the country's population was as follows:\n"}
{"id": "39109405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39109405", "title": "José Benito Monterroso", "text": "José Benito Monterroso\n\nJosé Benito Silverio Monterroso Bermúdez (Montevideo 1780-1838) was a Roman Catholic priest from the Banda Oriental, the pre-independence name of Uruguay.\n\nHe was ordained in the Franciscan Order and later became lecturer in Philosophy and Theology at the University of Córdoba.\n\nHe was a notable patriot during the fight for freedom in colonial times. He was decisive in the development of Artiguism, the thought of José Gervasio Artigas.\n\nMonterroso was the eldest of six. His sister Ana married Juan Antonio Lavalleja, leader of the Thirty-Three Orientals.\n"}
{"id": "373046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373046", "title": "Kamadhenu", "text": "Kamadhenu\n\nKamadhenu (, , ), also known as Surabhi (, ), is a divine bovine-goddess described in Hinduism as the mother of all cows. She is a miraculous \"cow of plenty\" who provides her owner whatever he desires and is often portrayed as the mother of other cattle.In iconography, she is generally depicted as a white cow with a female head and breasts, the wings of a bird, and the tail of a peafowl or as a white cow containing various deities within her body. All cows are venerated in Hinduism as the earthly embodiment of the Kamadhenu. As such, Kamadhenu is not worshipped independently as a goddess, and temples are not dedicated to her honor alone; rather, she is honored by the veneration of cows in general throughout the observant Hindu population.\n\nHindu scriptures provide diverse accounts of the birth of Kamadhenu. While some narrate that she emerged from the churning of the cosmic ocean, others describe her as the daughter of the creator god Daksha, and as the wife of the sage Kashyapa. Still other scriptures narrate that Kamadhenu was in the possession of either Jamadagni or Vashista (both ancient sages), and that kings who tried to steal her from the sage ultimately faced dire consequences for their actions. Kamadhenu plays the important role of providing milk and milk products to be used in her sage-master's oblations; she is also capable of producing fierce warriors to protect him. In addition to dwelling in the sage's hermitage, she is also described as dwelling in Goloka - the realm of the cows - and Patala, the netherworld.\n\nKamadhenu is often addressed by the proper name \"Surabhi\" or \"Shurbhi\", which is also used as a synonym for an ordinary cow. Professor Jacobi considers the name Surabhi—\"the fragrant one\"—to have originated from the peculiar smell of cows. According to the Monier Williams Sanskrit–English Dictionary (1899), Surabhi means fragrant, charming, pleasing, as well as cow and earth. It can specifically refer to the divine cow Kamadhenu, the mother of cattle who is also sometimes described as a \"Matrika\" (\"mother\") goddess. Other proper names attributed to Kamadhenu are \"Sabala\" (\"the spotted one\") and \"Kapila\" (\"the red one\").\n\nThe epithets \"Kamadhenu\", \"Kamaduh\" (कामदुह्) and \"Kamaduha\" (कामदुहा) literally mean the cow \"from whom all that is desired is drawn\"—\"the cow of plenty\". In the \"Mahabharata\" and \"Devi Bhagavata Purana\", in the context of the birth of Bhishma, the cow Nandini is given the epithet Kamadhenu. In other instances, Nandini is described as the cow-daughter of Surabhi-Kamadhenu. The scholar Vettam Mani considers Nandini and Surabhi to be synonyms of Kamadhenu.\n\nAccording to Indologist Madeleine Biardeau, Kamadhenu or Kamaduh is the generic name of the sacred cow, who is regarded as the source of all prosperity in Hinduism. Kamadhenu is regarded as a form of Devi (the Hindu Divine Mother) and is closely related to the fertile Mother Earth (Prithvi), who is often described as a cow in Sanskrit. The sacred cow denotes \"purity and non-erotic fertility, ... sacrificing and motherly nature, [and] sustenance of human life\".\n\nFrederick M. Smith describes Kamadhenu as a \"popular and enduring image in Indian art\". All the gods are believed to reside in the body of Kamadhenu—the generic cow. Her four legs are the scriptural Vedas; her horns are the triune gods Brahma (tip), Vishnu (middle) and Shiva (base); her eyes are the sun and moon gods, her shoulders the fire-god Agni and the wind-god Vayu and her legs the Himalayas. Kamadhenu is often depicted in this form in poster art.\n\nAnother representation of Kamadhenu shows her with the body of a white Zebu cow, crowned woman's head, colourful eagle wings and a peacock's tail. According to the Philadelphia Museum of Art, this form is influenced by the iconography of the Islamic Buraq, who is portrayed with a horse's body, wings, and a woman's face. Contemporary poster art also portrays Kamadhenu in this form.\n\nA cow, identified with Kamadhenu, is often depicted accompanying the god Dattatreya. In relation to the deity's iconography, she denotes the Brahminical aspect and Vaishnava connection of the deity contrasting with the accompanying dogs—symbolizing a non-Brahminical aspect. She also symbolizes the \"Panch Bhuta\" (the five classical elements) in the icon. Dattatreya is sometimes depicted holding the divine cow in one of his hands.\n\nThe \"Mahabharata\" (Adi Parva book) records that Kamadhenu-Surabhi rose from the churning of the cosmic ocean (\"Samudra manthan\") by the gods and demons to acquire \"Amrita\" (ambrosia, elixir of life). As such, she is regarded the offspring of the gods and demons, created when they churned the cosmic milk ocean and then given to the Saptarishi, the seven great seers. She was ordered by the creator-god Brahma to give milk, and supply it and \"ghee\" (\"clarified butter\") for ritual fire-sacrifices.\n\nThe \"Anushasana Parva\" book of the epic narrates that Surabhi was born from the belch of \"the creator\" (\"Prajapati\") Daksha after he drank the \"Amrita\" that rose from the Samudra manthan. Further, Surabhi gave birth to many golden cows called \"Kapila cows\", who were called the mothers of the world. The \"Satapatha Brahmana\" also tells a similar tale: \"Prajapati\" created Surabhi from his breath. The \"Udyoga Parva\" Book of the \"Mahabharata\" narrates that the creator-god Brahma drank so much \"Amrita\" that he vomited some of it, from which emerged Surabhi.\n\nAccording to the \"Ramayana\", Surabhi is the daughter of sage Kashyapa and his wife Krodhavasha, the daughter of Daksha. Her daughters Rohini and Gandharvi are the mothers of cattle and horses respectively. Still, it is Surabhi who is described as the mother of all cows in the text. However, in the \"Puranas\", such as \"Vishnu Purana\" and \"Bhagavata Purana\", Surabhi is described as the daughter of Daksha and the wife of Kashyapa, as well as the mother of cows and buffaloes.\n\nThe \"Matsya Purana\" notes two conflicting descriptions of Surabhi. In one chapter, it describes Surabhi as the consort of Brahma and their union produced the cow Yogishvari,She is then described as the mother of cows and quadrupeds. In another instance, she is described as a daughter of Daksha, wife of Kashyapa and the mother of cows. The \"Harivamsa\", an appendix of the \"Mahabharata\", calls Surabhi the mother of Amrita (ambrosia), Brahmins, cows and Rudras.\n\nThe \"Devi Bhagavata Purana\" narrates that Krishna and his lover Radha were enjoying dalliance, when they thirsted for milk. So, Krishna created a cow called Surabhi and a calf called Manoratha from the left side of his body, and milked the cow. When drinking the milk, the milk pot fell on the ground and broke, spilling the milk, which became the Kshirasagara, the cosmic milk ocean. Numerous cows then emerged from the pores of Surabhi's skin and were presented to the cowherd-companions (Gopas) of Krishna by him. Then Krishna worshipped Surabhi and decreed that she—a cow, the giver of milk and prosperity—be worshipped at Diwali on Bali Pratipada day.\n\nVarious other scriptural references describe Surabhi as the mother of the Rudras including Nirrti (Kashyapa being the father), the cow Nandini and even the serpent-people nāgas. The \"Mahabharata\" also makes a passing reference to Surabhi as the mother of Nandini (literally \"daughter\") in the context of the birth of Bhishma, an incarnation of a \"Vasu\" deity. Nandini, like her mother, is a \"cow of plenty\" or \"Kamadhenu\", and resides with sage Vashista. Nandini is stolen by the divine Vasus and thus cursed by the sage to be born on the earth. The \"Raghuvamsa\" of Kalidasa mentions that king Dilip—an ancestor of god Rama—once passed by Kamadhenu-Surabhi, but failed to pay respects to her, thus incurring the wrath of the divine cow, who cursed the king to go childless. So, since Kamadhenu had gone to Patala, the guru of Dilip, Vasistha advised the king to serve Nandini, Kamadhenu's daughter who was in the hermitage. The king and his wife propitiated Nandini, who neutralized her mother's curse and blessed the king to have a son, who was named Raghu.\n\nIn the \"Ramayana\", Surabhi is described to be distressed by the treatment of her sons—the oxen—in fields. Her tears are considered a bad omen for the gods by Indra, the god-king of heaven. The \"Vana Parva\" book of the \"Mahbharata\" also narrates a similar instance: Surabhi cries about the plight of her son—a bullock, who is overworked and beaten by his peasant-master. Indra, moved by Surabhi's tears, rains to stop the ploughing of the tormented bullock.\n\nIn Hindu Religion, Kamadhenu is often associated with the Brahmin (\"priest class\" including sages), whose wealth she symbolizes. Cow's milk and its derivatives such as ghee (clarified butter) are integral parts of Vedic fire sacrifices, which are conducted by Brahmin priests; thus the ancient Kamadhenu is sometimes also referred to the \"Homadhenu\"—the cow from whom oblations are drawn. Moreover, the cow also offers the Brahmin—who is prohibited to fight—protection against abusive kings who try to harm them. As a goddess, she becomes a warrior, creating armies to protect her master and herself.\n\nA legend narrates that the sacrificial cow Kamadhenu resided with sage Jamadagni. The earliest version of the legend, which appears in the epic Mahabharata, narrates that the thousand-armed \"Haihaya\" king, Kartavirya Arjuna, destroyed Jamadagni's hermitage and captured the calf of Kamadhenu. To retrieve the calf, Jamadagni's son Parashurama slew the king, whose sons in turn killed Jamadagni. Parashurama then destroyed the \"kshatriya\" (\"warrior\") race 21 times and his father is resurrected by divine grace. Similar accounts of the abduction of the celestial cow or her calf, the killing of Jamadagni by Kartavirya Arjuna, and the revenge of Parashurama resulting in the death of Kartavirya Arjuna, exist in other texts. The \"Bhagavata Purana\" mentions that the king abducted Kamadhenu as well as her calf and Parashurama defeated the king and returned the kine to his father. The \"Padma Purana\" mentions that when Kartavirya Arjuna tried to capture her, Kamadhenu, by her own power, defeated him and his army and flew off to heaven; the enraged king then killed Jamadagni.\n\nIn the \"Brahmanda Purana\", Kamadhenu creates a great city by her power to accommodate Kartavirya Arjuna's army, when they visit Jamadagni's hermitage. On returning to his kingdom, Kartavirya Arjuna's minister, Chandragupta, persuades him to capture the divine cow. The minister returns to the hermitage and tries to convince the sage to give away the cow, but to no avail, so he tries to snatch Kamadhenu with force. In the ensuing fight, the sage is killed, but Kamadhenu escapes to the sky and Chandragupta takes her calf with him instead. The Brahmanda Purana narrates this Kamadhenu Sushila was given to Jamadagni by the Kamadhenu-Surabhi, who governs in Goloka.\n\nThe \"Brahma Vaivarta Purana\" narrates that the celestial cow – called Kapila here – produces various weapons and an army to aid Jamadagni defeat the king's army, who had come to seize her. When the king himself challenged Jamadagni for battle, Kapila instructed her master in martial arts. Jamadagni led the army created by Kapila and defeated the king and his army several times; each time sparing the life of the king. Finally, with the aid of a divine spear granted to him by the god Dattatreya, the king killed Jamadagni.\n\nThe \"Ramayana\" presents a similar account about Kamadhenu, however, here the sage is Vashista and the king is Vishwamitra. Once, king Vishwamitra with his army arrived at the hermitage of sage Vashista. The sage welcomed him and offered a huge banquet – to the army – that was produced by Sabala – as Kamadhenu is called in the text. The astonished king asked the sage to part with Sabala and instead offered thousand of ordinary cows, elephants, horses and jewels in return. However, the sage refused to part with Sabala, who was necessary for the performance of the sacred rituals and charity by the sage. Agitated, Vishwamitra seized Sabala by force, but she returned to her master, fighting the king's men. She hinted Vashista to order her to destroy the king's army and the sage followed her wish. Intensely, she produced Pahlava warriors, who were slain by Vishwamita's army. So she produced warriors of Shaka-Yavana lineage. From her mouth, emerged the Kambhojas, from her udder Barvaras, from her hind Yavanas and Shakas, and from pores on her skin, Haritas, Kiratas and other foreign warriors. Together, the army of Sabala killed Vishwamitra's army and all his sons. This event led to a great rivalry between Vashista and Vishwamitra, who renounced his kingdom and became a great sage to defeat Vashista.\n\nKamadhenu-Surabhi's residence varies depending on different scriptures. The \"Anushasana Parva\" of the \"Mahabharata\" tells how she was given the ownership of Goloka, the cow-heaven located above the three worlds (heaven, earth and netherworld): the daughter of Daksha, Surabhi went to Mount Kailash and worshipped Brahma for 10,000 years. The pleased god conferred goddess-hood on the cow and decreed that all people would worship her and her children – cows. He also gave her a world called Goloka, while her daughters would reside on earth among humans.\n\nIn one instance in the \"Ramayana\", Surabhi is described to live in the city of Varuna – the Lord of oceans – which is situated below the earth in Patala (the netherworld). Her flowing sweet milk is said to form \"Kshiroda\" or the Kshirasagara, the cosmic milk ocean. In the \"Udyoga Parva\" book of the \"Mahabharata\", this milk is said to be of six flavours and has the essence of all the best things of the earth. The \"Udyoga Parva\" specifies that Surabhi inhabits the lowest realm of Patala, known as Rasatala, and has four daughters – the \"Dikpali\"s – the guardian cow goddesses of the heavenly quarters: Saurabhi in the east, Harhsika in the south, Subhadra in the west and Dhenu in the north.\n\nApart from Goloka and Patala, Kamadhenu is also described as residing in the hermitages of the sages Jamadagni and Vashista. Scholar Mani explains the contradicting stories of Kamadhenu's birth and presence in the processions of many gods and sages by stating that while there could be more than one Kamadhenu, all of them are incarnations of the original Kamadhenu, the mother of cows.\n\nThe \"Bhagavad Gita\", a discourse by the god Krishna in the \"Mahabharata\", twice refers to Kamadhenu as \"Kamadhuk\". In verse 3.10, Krishna makes a reference to Kamadhuk while conveying that for doing one's duty, one would get the milk of one's desires. In verse 10.28, when Krishna declares to the source of the universe, he proclaims that among cows, he is Kamadhuk.\n\nIn the \"Anushasana Parva\" of the \"Mahabharata\", the god Shiva is described as having cast a curse on Surabhi. This curse is interpreted as a reference to the following legend: Once, when the gods Brahma and Vishnu were fighting over who was superior, a fiery pillar—linga (symbol of Shiva)—emerged before them. It was that decided whoever found the end of this pillar was superior. Brahma flew to the skies to try to find the top of the pillar, but failed. So Brahma forced Surabhi (in some versions, Surabhi instead suggested that Brahma should lie) to falsely testify to Vishnu that Brahma had seen the top of the linga; Shiva punished Surabhi by putting a curse on her so that her bovine offspring would have to eat unholy substances. This tale appears in the \"Skanda Purana\".\n\nSome temples and houses have images of Kamadhenu, which are worshipped. However, she has never had a worship cult dedicated to her and does not have any temples where she is worshipped as the chief deity. In Monier-Williams's words: \"It is rather the living animal [the cow] which is the perpetual object of adoration\". Cows are often fed outside temples and worshipped regularly on all Fridays and on special occasions. Every cow to \"a pious Hindu\" is regarded as an Avatar (earthly embodiment) of the divine Kamadhenu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39233231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39233231", "title": "Kuragala", "text": "Kuragala\n\nKuragala () is a pre-historic archaeological site with ruins of ancient Buddhist Cave temple complex, dating back to the 2nd century BC, in Balangoda, Sri Lanka. The temple complex is located on the Balangoda - Kaltota road (B38) approximately distance from the Balangoda town. The site has been formally recognised by the Government as an archaeological reserve in Sri Lanka. Kuragala is considered as the oldest archaeological site found in the Intermediate Zone.\n\nAccording to the archaeological evidences found, Kuragala area had been used by humans belonging to the pre-historic period. From the excavations, archaeologists found stone tools, fossilized bone fragments and remains of a human skeleton which is believed to be aged more than 8,000 years. Investigations further revealed that the humans lived in Kuragala may had close links with the coastal areas as it found the remnants of seashells and shells of clams. Recent studies done in the Kuragala Kaltota Diyawinna area have revealed that beside the hunting, they had also engaged in agricultural activities as well.\n\nThe extensive investigations, carried out by the archaeological department at the Kuragala, uncovered evidences that the caves at the site were using as a Buddhist monastery during the period between 3rd century BC and first century AD. An archaeological report on Kuragala area, published by C.H. Collins in 1932, documents about the two cave shelters and 2nd century BC Brahmi inscriptions as well as about the carved stone lintels, stairways and platforms, located at the foot of the Kuragala brae (Budugala area). From eye copies, C. H Collins published his interpretations of Kuragala inscriptions in \"JRASCB, XXXII, 1932\". These inscriptions were reread, and republished in \"Inscriptions of Ceylon Vol. I\" by the archaeological department.\n\nResearches done by Sri Lankan archaeologists and epigraphers have established that, inscribed cave shelters were made for Buddhist monks by donors as religious donations. Caves provide shelter to them during the annual rainy season retreat as prescribed in Theravada Buddhist tradition. Existence of dripledged caves in a site indicate that they were inhabited by Bhikkhus during the past period and epigraphs further reveal the names of donors who donate the prepared caves to them. \n\nAt the summit of the Kuragala is a brick built Stupa which is now an archaeologically protected monument. The Stupa is considered belongs to the tradition of \"Akasa Chaithya\" which type of Stupa were built since 7th century CE to serve as communication beacons giving directions. The present Stupa has been restored on the location where the residue of ancient Stupa was identified. However some allege that the Stupa at Kuragala is a modern construction, built using local bricks and Kankesanthurai cement, and the construction was stopped half as Jailani trustees obtain a cabinet order.\nIt was lead to tensions after Muslims started to claim the site. From the end of 19th century the site was claimed to be occupied by the Muslim people and said to be maintained as a Sufi shrine named Daftar Jailani rock cave mosque by Muslims. According to the alleged local Muslim's believes a Sufi saint called Sheikh Muhiyadeen Abdul Qadir Jilani (d. 1166 CE, buried in Baghdad) have stayed in this place for 12 years after paying his respects to Adam's Peak. However the shrine itself preserves no physical trace of the saint, an inscription written in Arabic language has been said to be found in the site which has not yet accepted to be historical by the authorities. According to a self-published book by the late chief trustee of Jailani, M.L.M. Aboosally, this inscription is belonged to 907 CE, a date more than two centuries prior to the saint’s lifetime. \n\n"}
{"id": "37888228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37888228", "title": "List of Catholic churches in Brazil", "text": "List of Catholic churches in Brazil\n\nThis is a list of Catholic churches in Brazil.\n\nSee: List of cathedrals in Brazil\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45522760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45522760", "title": "List of churches in Nigeria", "text": "List of churches in Nigeria\n\nAccording to Pew Research, Nigeria is the 2nd most religious country in the world. Its populace is evenly divided between the largely Muslim north and the predominantly Christian south. Below is a list of churches in Nigeria. It also contains the year of establishment, founder and the current general overseer of the congregation.\n\n"}
{"id": "21067783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21067783", "title": "List of presidents of The Church of Jesus Christ (Bickertonite)", "text": "List of presidents of The Church of Jesus Christ (Bickertonite)\n\nThis list of presidents of The Church of Jesus Christ includes all Presidents of The Church of Jesus Christ (Bickertonite).\n\n"}
{"id": "5438742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5438742", "title": "Narada Bhakti Sutra", "text": "Narada Bhakti Sutra\n\nThe Narada Bhakti Sutra (IAST: ) is a well known sutra venerated within the traditions of Hinduism, reportedly spoken by the famous sage, Narada. The text details the process of devotion (Bhakti), or Bhakti yoga and is thus of particular importance to many of the Bhakti movements within Hinduism. It has received particular attention among the Vaishnava traditions.\n\nSanskrit scriptures often appear in variant editions which may show differences in organization and verse numbering. For example in the translation by Swami Prabhavananda there are eighty-four verses arranged in nine chapters, whereas in the Bhaktivedanta Book Trust translation by A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada and his disciple Satsvarupa dasa the eighty-four verses are organised into five chapters.\n\nAs organized by Swami Prabhavananda, the text covers the following subjects:\n\n\nIn the translation by Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada the chapters break at similar points, but with the first four chapters arranged into double the amount of verses:\n\n\nWithin the text Narada explains the perfectional stage of pure devotion; the process to achieve this state; gives quotations from other Vedic personalities on the subject matter; things to avoid when developing bhakti; and finally explains the nature of selfless love and the different forms of attachment to the Supreme person.\n\nFirstly bhakti itself is defined as being \"the most elevated, pure love for God\" which is eternal by nature and through following which one obtains perfect peace and immortality (release from samsara). The symptoms of such devotion are that one no longer has any selfish desires, nor is affected by the dualities of loss or gain for himself being fully content with (and experiencing ecstasy through) the process of bhakti itself. Narada describes that lust is absent in those who execute bhakti purely because they naturally have no personal desires to fulfill.\n\nThe aspirant bhakta is encouraged to renounce \"social customs\" and \"religious rituals\" and to focus purely on service to God with exclusive dedication, being indifferent to whatever may stand in the way of such service. Activities of social custom and religious rituals that are favorable to devotional service are still promoted but devotional activities are given as \"the only means for reaching the perfection of life.\"\n\nThe text then goes on to quote Vyasa, Garga and Sandilya in terms of their opinions on what is \"bhakti\", giving the opinion that all three are correct but declaring in conclusion that \"bhakti consists of offering one's every act to the Supreme Lord and feeling extreme distress in forgetting Him\". The Gopis (cowherd women) of Vrindavan are given as an example of devotees who display this form of pure bhakti, but warning is also given about 'false devotion' that imitates this perfectional stage. Narada follows this warning by stating, \"Furthermore, the Lord dislikes the proud but is pleased with the humble\".\n\nAn important point is made in verse 30 in regard to the relationship between bhakti and knowledge: \"But the son of Brahma [Narada] says that bhakti is its own fruit\". In his commentary, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada further describes in regard to this verse that \"bhakti is not dependent on anything else for nourishment\" being complete in itself, without dependence on the paths of either knowledge or renunciation.\n\nThe methods initially described for obtaining bhakti are as follows:\n\n\nHowever, following these three, the text gives the \"grace of great souls\" or \"a small drop of the Lord's grace\" as the most important factors in developing true devotion. Saying that such association is so rare and precious that it can only be obtained through the grace of God Himself, thus the instruction is given in verse 42: \"Strive, strive only for the association of pure devotees\".\n\nAlongside the acceptance of positive practices in the cultivation bhakti, the text also describes items which should be avoided by the aspiring bhakta. Intimate dealings with others who are against the path of bhakti or who indulge in sinful habits is described as potentially dangerous for one attempting to purify their consciousness: \"Material association is the cause of lust, anger, confusion, forgetfulness, loss of intelligence, and total calamity\". It further explains that only one who abandons such material association, serves the sages and becomes selfless in their dealings, renouncing desires for profit or gain, can cross beyond the ocean of illusion. Even the Vedas are given as an object to renounce for one for wants to obtain pure and uninterrupted love for God. In later chapters however an instruction is also given that respect should be shown for all scriptures which promote bhakti (devotion) and an aspirant bhakta should endeavour to follow the instructions of such texts.\n\nThe text states that the true nature of pure love of God is beyond description, but this does not restrict God from revealing it to those who are qualified. Once this pure love is obtained it says that a person \"looks only at the Lord, hears only about Him, speaks only of Him, and thinks only of Him\". Secondary forms of this love are given as stepping stones which bring one to the perfectional stage, with each stage nearer to perfection being better than those preceding it. It is also stated that perfection is attained much more easily by bhakti than by any other process. The reason is that \"bhakti does not depend on any other authority for its validity, being itself the standard of authority. Furthermore, bhakti is the embodiment of peace and supreme ecstasy.\".\n\nIn conclusion the sutra gives an instruction to \"patiently endure\" until the perfectional stage of bhakti becomes manifest, whilst cultivating qualities such as nonviolence, honesty, cleanliness, compassion and faith. Again it is said that the Lord \"reveals Himself to His devotees\" and that bhakti is the most precious of all possessions.\n\nNext a list of forms of attachment is given, through which a devotee should attain a loving feeling towards God, including :\n\n\nFinally a number of devotional figures from Puranic scriptures are quoted as being agreement with the truth of the process given, including: the Four Kumaras, Vyasa, Śuka, Sandilya, Garga, Vishnu, Kaundinya, Sesha, Uddhava, Aruni, Bali, Hanuman and Vibhishana.\nThe last verse of the text gives the message that: \"Anyone who trusts these instructions spoken by Narada and is convinced by them will be blessed with devotion and attain the most dear Lord. Yes, he will attain the most dear Lord.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "94186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=94186", "title": "Neasden", "text": "Neasden\n\nNeasden is an suburban area in northwest London, United Kingdom. It forms part of the London Borough of Brent.\n\nThe area was recorded as \"Neasdun\" in AD 939 and the name is derived from the Old English \"nēos\" = 'nose' and \"dūn\" = 'hill'. It means 'the nose-shaped hill' referring to a well-defined landmark of this area. In 1750, it was known as \"Needsden\" and the present spelling appeared at a later date.\n\nNeasden was a countryside hamlet on the western end of the Dollis Hill ridge. The land was owned by St. Paul's Cathedral. In medieval times, the village consisted only of several small buildings around the green near the site of the present Neasden roundabout.\n\nIn the 15th–17th century the Roberts family were the major landowners in the area. Thomas Roberts erected Neasden House (on the site of the modern Clifford Court) in the reign of Henry VIII.\nIn 1651 Sir William Roberts bought confiscated church lands. After the Restoration the estates were returned to the ownership of the Church but were leased out to the Roberts family. Sir William improved Neasden House and by 1664 it was one of the largest houses in the Willesden parish.\n\nDuring the 18th century the Nicoll family replaced the Roberts as the dominant family in Neasden. In the 19th century these farmers and moneyers at the Royal Mint wholly owned Neasden House and much of the land in the area.\n\nNeasden was no more than a ‘retired hamlet’ when enclosure was completed in 1823. At this time there were six cottages, four larger houses or farms, a public house and a smithy, grouped around the green. The dwellings include The Grove, which had been bought by a London solicitor named James Hall, and its former outbuilding, which Hall had converted into a house that became known as The Grange.\n\nThe Welsh Harp reservoir was completed in 1835 and breached in 1841 with fatalities. It had a dramatic effect on the landscape as the damming of the River Brent put many fields and meadows underwater.\n\nIn the early 1850s, Neasden had a population of about 110. In the Victorian times the horse was the main form of transport, and as London grew, the demand for horses in the capital soared in the second half of the 19th century. Neasden farms concentrated on rearing and providing horses for the city. Town work was exhausting and unhealthy for the horses, and in 1886 the RSPCA formed a committee to set up the Home of Rest for Horses with grounds in Sudbury and Neasden, where for a small fee town horses were allowed to graze in the open for a few weeks.\n\nThe urbanisation of Neasden began with the arrival of the railway. The first railway running through Neasden — Hendon-Acton and Bedford — St. Pancras was opened for goods traffic in October 1868, with passenger services following soon. In 1875, Dudding Hill, the first station in the area, was opened, and the Metropolitan Railway was extended through Neasden shortly afterwards. Neasden station was opened on Neasden Lane in 1880. New housing, initially for railway workers, was built in the village (particularly around Village Way) with all the streets named after Metropolitan Railway stations in Buckinghamshire.\n\nIn 1883, an Anglican mission chapel, St Saviour's, was set up in the village. Its priest, the Reverend James Mills, became an important and popular figure in late 19th century Neasden. In 1885 Mills took over St Andrew's, Kingsbury and became vicar of a new parish, Neasden-cum-Kingsbury, created because of the area's rising population.\n\nBefore Mill's arrival, the only sporting facilities in Neasden had been two packs of foxhounds, both of which had disbanded by 1857. Mills became founder president of Neasden Cricket Club and encouraged musical societies. In 1893 a golf club was founded at Neasden House, however only 10% of its members came from Neasden.\n\nIn the 1890s change led to a conscious effort to create a village atmosphere. At this time, the Spotted Dog became a social centre for local people. By 1891 Neasden had a population of 930, half of whom lived in the village. Despite the presence of the village in the west, it was the London end that grew fastest.\n\nIn 1893 the Great Central Railway got permission to join up its main line from Nottingham with the Metropolitan. Trains ran on or alongside the Metropolitan track to a terminus at Marylebone (this is now the modern day Chiltern Main Line). The Great Central set up a depot south of the line at Neasden and built houses for its workers (Gresham and Woodheyes roads). The Great Central village was a \"singularly isolated and self-contained community\" with its own school and single shop, Branch No. 1 of the North West London Co-operative Society. It is now part of a conservation area. There was considerable sporting rivalry between the two railway estates and a football match was played every Good Friday. By the 1930s the two railways employed over 1000 men.\n\nNeasden Hospital was built in 1894 and closed in 1986.\n\nApart from the railways, Neasden was dominated by agriculture until just before the First World War. In 1911, Neasden's population had swelled to 2,074. By 1913, light industry at Church End had spread up Neasden Lane as far as the station.\n\nIn the 1920s, the building of the North Circular Road, a main arterial route round London, brought another wave of development; it opened in 1922–23. The 1924–25 British Empire Exhibition led to road improvements and the introduction of new bus services. Together with the North Circular Road, it paved the way for a new residential suburb at Neasden. In 1930 Neasden House was part demolished. The last farm in Neasden (covering The Rise, Elm Way and Vicarage Way) was built over in 1935. The Ritz cinema opened in 1935 and Neasden Shopping Parade was opened in 1936, and was considered the most up-to-date in the area. All of Neasden's older houses were demolished during this period, except for The Grange, and the Spotted Dog was rebuilt in mock-Tudor style. Industries sprung up in the south of the area, and by 1949, Neasden's population was over 13,000.\n\nThe Post Office Research Station was located nearby in Dollis Hill. There the Colossus computers, among the world's first, were built in 1943-1944 and underneath it the Paddock wartime cabinet rooms were constructed in 1939.\n\nNeasden Power Station, which was built to provide power for the Metropolitan Railway, was closed and demolished in 1968.\n\nThe post-war history of Neasden is one of steady decline; local traffic congestion problems necessitated the building of an underpass on the North Circular Road that effectively cut Neasden in half and had a disastrous effect on the shopping centre by making pedestrian access to it difficult. The decline in industry through the 1970s also contributed to the area's decline. But nonetheless Neasden has survived, largely due to a succession of vibrant immigrant communities keeping the local economy afloat. Neasden Depot continues to be the main storage and maintenance depot for the London Underground's Metropolitan line (and is also used by trains of the Jubilee line); it is London Underground's largest depot and as such it is a major local employer.\n\nThe Grange Tavern (previously called The Old Spotted Dog) on Neasden Lane was closed in the 1990s and demolished to make way for a block of flats, bringing to an end the inn that had stood there for around two centuries. Another old pub, The Pantiles which stood on the North Circular Road was converted to another McDonald's restaurant. The Swedish furniture retailer, IKEA opened its second UK outlet in Neasden in 1988.\n\nOn 14 July 1993 in an MI5 anti-terrorist operation, a Provisional IRA man was arrested in his car on Crest Road carrying a 20 lb bomb. It came just over a year after the Staples Corner bombing just over 500 yards away, which devastated the junction.\n\nIn 1995, Neasden became the home of the biggest Hindu temple outside India: the Neasden Temple.\n\nIn 2004, the Shopping Centre area was partially redeveloped by the council in an effort to reverse its fortunes. The Grange, which had housed a museum about the people of Brent was closed by the council in 2005.\n\nThe 2004 redevelopment proved to be unpopular with local businesses as it changed the layouts of parking, thus forcing customers and local trade to pass by due to the parking restrictions of the redevelopment.\n\nNeasden was once nicknamed ‘the loneliest village in London’.\n\nNeasden has achieved considerable notoriety thanks to the British satirical magazine, \"Private Eye\". Since early in its history (when the magazine was actually printed in Neasden) the magazine has used Neasden as an exemplar of the suburban environment in pieces parodying current events, personalities, and social mores (for example, the University of Neasden). Spoof sports reports in the magazine usually feature the perennially unsuccessful football team, Neasden F.C. with their manager, \"ashen-faced\" Ron Knee and their only two supporters, Sid and Doris Bonkers.\n\nNeasden was one of the locations in the TV documentary Metro-land (TV). In it, Sir John Betjeman described Neasden as \"home of the gnome and the average citizen\" (the former a reference to the preponderance of gnome statuettes in suburban front-gardens, but possibly also a nod in the direction of the Eye’s fictional proprietor, Lord Gnome). Background music was provided by William Rushton’s recording of Neasden (1972) (\"Neasden/You won’t be sorry that you breezed in\").\n\nIn a celebrated spoof of the Early Music phenomenon which grew enormously in the late 1960s, Neasden was selected by BBC Radiophonic Workshop composer David Cain as the home of a fictional ensemble dedicated to historically-informed performances on authentic musical instruments from an indeterminate number of centuries ago. It was thus that in 1968, listeners to BBC Radio 3 were given a recital by the Schola Polyphonica Neasdeniensis whose members performed on the equally fictional Shagbut, Minikin and Flemish Clackett.\n\nAthletico Neasden was an amateur football team of mostly Jewish players, which played in the Maccabi (Southern) Football League in the 1970s and 1980s and was named after the place, though it did not actually play in the area. The team eventually merged with North West Warriors to form North West Neasden. (See also — Son of Neasden and Neasden Academicals).\n\nDavid Sutherland’s children’s novel 'A Black Hole in Neasden' reveals a gateway to another planet in a Neasden back garden. Diana Evans's 2006 novel, \"26a\", details the experiences of twin girls of Nigerian and British descent growing up in Neasden.\n\nWillie Hamilton reported in 'My Queen and I' that the Victorian order medals were made on a production line in Neasden from used railway lines.\n\nA pirate radio station, Dread Broadcasting Corporation, credited as Britain's first black music radio station, was broadcast from a Neasden garden between 1981 - 1984.\n\nIn the episode \"Planet of the Machines\", Dangermouse and Penfold arrive back in Neasden from the planet in the Baron's space time machine\n\nKonnie Huq and Matt Cooke from BBC TV present the \"Your News\" programme from Neasden:\"news.bbc.co.uk\" (originally broadcast on 27 September 2008).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7327447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7327447", "title": "Northwest District (LCMS)", "text": "Northwest District (LCMS)\n\nThe Northwest District is one of the 35 districts of the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod (LCMS), and encompasses the states of Alaska, Idaho, Oregon and Washington; one Idaho is in the Montana District. The Northwest District includes approximately 267 congregations and missions, subdivided into 25 circuits, as well as 93 preschools, 31 elementary schools and 4 high schools\n. Baptized membership in district congregations is approximately 65,461.\n\nThe Northwest District was formed as the Oregon and Washington District in 1899 when the California and Oregon District was divided, also creating the California and Nevada District; the name was changed to the Northwest District in 1948. District offices are located in Portland, Oregon. The Rev. Paul Linnemann became the district president in 2009.. Delegates from each congregation meet in convention every three years to elect the district president, vice presidents, circuit counselors, a board of directors, and other officers. The 62nd Regular Convention was held June 18–20, 2009, in Portland with the theme \"The Spirit Gives Live\"(2 Cor 3:6). The 63rd Regular Convention will be held June 21–23, 2012, in Portland with the theme \"Walking Toward Oneness\" (Eph 4:11-13).\n\nConcordia University in Portland, part of the LCMS' Concordia University System, is located within the district.\n\n\n\nOldest in Alaska: Saint John Lutheran Church, Palmer, Alaska, 1935\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6366982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6366982", "title": "Payovrata", "text": "Payovrata\n\nPayovrata is the vrata or penance observed by Goddess Aditi to propitiate Lord Vishnu. \n\nIt is usually observed for 12 days, and during that time the devotee subsists on a diet of milk alone. \n\nA notable event is that of Sage Kashyap who asked his wife, Aditi, to use this method to please Lord Narayana so that a solution could be found for her son who was defeated by the Asuras. This penance finally resulted in the Vamana Avatar sending Mahabali to the netherworld. \n"}
{"id": "40311236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40311236", "title": "Pindi (Hindu iconography)", "text": "Pindi (Hindu iconography)\n\nPindi are decked stones or tree stumps viewed in Hinduism as abstract manifestations of the mother goddess Shakti. Most of the 20th century goddess temples in Himachal Pradesh, India, enshrine a pindi.\n\n"}
{"id": "44483876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44483876", "title": "Piri System", "text": "Piri System\n\nEach Piri is a Sikh missionary seat, founded by 3rd Sikh Guru Amar Das ji and significantly expanded by 7th Sikh Guru Har Rai, for teaching Sikh religion to women, training and maintaining saint-soldiers . A similar Manji system is for the spread of Sikhism among men.\n\nA \"Piri\" is a very small wooden cot (taken as the \"seat of authority\" in this context) from which the Sikh \"Piri\"s (female Sikh preachers, holders of seat of religious authority) would teach Sikhism to other women. The word Manji also means a wooden cot, similarly used to denote \"seat of sikh religious authority\" for preaching Sikhism to men.\n\nGuru Amar Das started the \"Piri\" and Manji systems by appointing 94 men as \"Manji\" and 52 women as Piris for the spread of Sikhism.\n\nSikh Gurus had Masand system of Sikh representatives who taught and spread the teachings of the Sikh Gurus and also collect monetary offering to maintain armed legion of saint-soldier. Over time, this system became corrupted.\n\nGuru Har Rai Ji faced some serious difficulties during the period of his guruship. The corrupt Masands, Dhir Mal and Minas always tried to preclude the advancement of the Sikh religion.\n\nEarlier, \"Piri\" system was founded by Guru Amar Das ji. To reform the corrupted Masand system, Guru Har Rai Ji expanded the Piri system by establishing additional Female Sikh 'missionary' seats called \"Piri\"s after the small cot (\"manji\") used by the Guru's representatives. He also tried to improve the old corrupt Masand system and appointed pious and committed personalities, such as Suthre Shah, Sahiba, Sangtia, Mian Sahib, Bhagat Bhagwan, Bhagat Mal and Jeet Mal Bhagat (also known as Bairagi), as the heads of Manjis.\n\n"}
{"id": "4886003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4886003", "title": "Qalandar (title)", "text": "Qalandar (title)\n\nIn Pakistan, qalandar is used as a title for some Sufi saints. Some famous hassan qalandar Lal Shahbaz Qalandar, Bu Ali Shah Qalandar and Shams Ali Qalandar, Ghulam Farid, and Syed Mehmood Ul Hasan Shah Khaki Qalandar Mastwaar currently in Chakwal Pakistan . \n\nA Qalandar is a person who has excelled in seeing things and advances stage by stage into the Being. He even rises above the Administrative System and witnesses the core of Oneness in detail and after enjoying the Unity of the Being returns without losing his grades and then reaches back into his humanly status, so much so that his rise and fall becomes one and the same thing for him.. He witnesses part in the whole and sees the whole in the part and, then, after detaching himself from all this, plunges into a state of ecstasy.\n\nThe status of a qalandar is even higher than the loved ones because duality remains there even in that state, i.e. one is the loved one and the other is the loving. In qalanderiyat there is no duality.\n\n\"Qalandar\" is a title given to a saint who is at a very high level of spirituality. They are different from other saints and have very strong feelings of love for God's creation. Qalandars, among the saints, are those persons who may enjoy freedom from the ties and bounds of time and space. It is claimed that all living things are given in their charge and command, every part of the universe may be at their disposal but these holy people are far above temptation, greed or lust. When people request them they feel duty-bound to listen and rectify the cause of miseries of people because they have been appointed by God for this very purpose.\n\nQalandars have always spread the message of love and humanity, they are always in the state of ecstasy and their actions are with the will of God. They are \"Wali Allah\". Among contemporary people who hold the title of qalandar are Shams Ali Qalandar of Punjab, Pakistan, Shahbaz Qalander, Nathar Vali, and Baba Fakruddin. And currently Mastwaar Qalandar Syed Mehmood ul Hasan Shah Khaki in Makhdoom Pur, Chakwal, Punjab, Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "39646660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39646660", "title": "Religious harmony in India", "text": "Religious harmony in India\n\nReligious harmony in India is a concept that indicates that there is love, affection in between different religions in India. The Indian constitution supports and encourages religious harmony. In India, every citizen has a right to choose and practice any religion. There are examples of Muslims and Sikhs building temples. In India, different religious traditions live harmoniously. Seers of religions call for religious harmony in India. For popular film stars in India like Salman Khan, festivals of Hindus and Muslims are equal. According to Dalai Lama, India is a model for religious harmony. He mentions that \"In the last 2000-3000 years, different religious traditions, including Buddhism, Jainism, flourished here.\"\n\nThe ancient Indian scripture Rigveda endeavors plurality of religious thought with its mention \"ekaM sadvipraa bahudhaa vadanti \" (Sanskrit: \"एकं सद्विप्रा बहुधा वदन्ति\")– meaning wise people explain the same truth in different manners.\n\nAshoka (304–232 BCE), in his 12th edict stated:\"The beloved of the gods, king Piyadasi, honors both ascetics and the householders of all religions, and he honors them with gifts and honors of various kinds. . Whoever praises his own religion, due to excessive devotion, and condemns others with the thought \"Let me glorify my own religion,\" only harms his own religion. Therefore contact between religions is good. One should listen to and respect the doctrines professed by others. The beloved of the gods, king Piyadasi, desires that all should be well-learned in the good doctrines of other religions. \"Kharavela (193 BCE – after 170 BCE) was the third and greatest emperor of the Mahameghavahana dynasty of Kaḷinga (present-day Odisha). The main source of information about Khārabeḷa is his famous seventeen line rock-cut Hātigumphā inscription in a cave in the Udayagiri hills near Bhubaneswar, Odisha.The inscription states that the Emperor Kharavela had a liberal religious spirit. Kharavela describes himself as:\n“ सव पासंड पूजको सवदेवायतन संकार कारको ” (Prakrit language, Devanagari script)\nTranslation: The worshiper of all religious orders, the restorer of shrines of all gods.\n\nThe Grahapati Kokkala inscription dated to 1000-1001 CE equates \nin Verse 3 equates Shiva with Parama Brahma, Buddha, Vaman and Jina.\n\nDharmasthala Temple is a great example of religious harmony in India, as the priests of the temple are Shivalli Brahmins, who are Vaishnava, and the administration is run by a Jain Bunt family.\n\nThe late 19th century and early 20th century Indian guru and yogi Sai Baba of Shirdi preached religious harmony through his teaching. To practise and promote it he combined the celebration of the Hindu festival of Rama Navami with a Muslim Urs. Lokmanya Tilak Organised the programmes like Ganesh Chaturthi and Shivjayanti to preach Religious Harmony among the people. In Ganesh Chaturthi, Muslims used to beat the dhol during the visarjan of the Ganesha idol. The Lalbaugcha Raja of Mumbai, an annually set up Ganesha idol, is also worshipped by Muslims.\n\nEven though India is predominantly Hindu, its leaders have often included Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Jains, Zoroastrians etc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12476421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12476421", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Comodoro Rivadavia", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Comodoro Rivadavia\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Comodoro is located in the city of Comodoro, in the Patagonian province of Chubut in southern Argentina.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Comodoro Rivadavia encompasses 234,000 km² (90,382 Square Miles) of central Patagonia covering the Province of Chubut. The Diocese was founded in 1957 from part of the Diocese of Viedma. In 1961, its southern half became the separate Diocese of Río Gallegos. In 2009, part of the diocese became the Territorial Prelature of Esquel. It is a suffragan see to the Archdiocese of Bahía Blanca.\n\nThe Cathedral is located in the city of Comodoro Rivadavia. It is dedicated to San Juan Bosco, the only cathedral in the world dedicated to the founder of the Salesian Order. It was inaugurated in 1979, although the crypt had been dedicated in 1949.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Bishop of Comodoro Rivadavia is a prelate bishop of the Roman Catholic Church in Argentina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "189972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189972", "title": "Sabbatai Zevi", "text": "Sabbatai Zevi\n\nSabbatai Zevi (, other spellings include Shabbetai Ẓevi, Shabbeṯāy Ṣeḇī, Shabsai Tzvi, and \"Sabetay Sevi\" in Turkish) (August 1, 1626 – c. September 17, 1676) was a Sephardic ordained rabbi, though of Romaniote origin and a kabbalist, active throughout the Ottoman Empire, who claimed to be the long-awaited Jewish Messiah. He was the founder of the Sabbatean movement.\n\nIn February 1666, upon arriving in Constantinople, Sabbatai was imprisoned on the order of the grand vizier Ahmed Köprülü; in September of that same year, after being moved from different prisons around the capital to Adrianople (the imperial court's seat) for judgement on accusations of fomenting sedition, Sabbatai was given by Köprülü, in the name of the Sultan Mehmed IV, the choice of either facing death by some type of ordeal, or of converting to Islam. Sabbatai seems to have chosen the latter by donning from then on a Turkish turban. He was then also rewarded by the heads of the Ottoman state with a generous pension for his compliance with their political and religious plans. Some of his followers also converted to Islam—about 300 families who were known as the Dönmeh (converts). He was later banished twice by the Ottoman authorities who were tired of his schemes and discovered him singing psalms with the Jews. He later died in isolation.\n\nSabbatai Zevi was born in Smyrna, Ottoman Empire (İzmir in present-day Turkey), supposedly on Tisha B'Av (the 9th of Av), 1626, the holy day of mourning. His name literally meant the planet Saturn, and in Jewish tradition \"The reign of Sabbatai\" (The highest planet) was often linked to the advent of the Messiah. Zevi's family were Romaniotes from Patras in present-day Greece; his father, Mordecai, was a poultry dealer in the Morea. During the war between Turkey and Venice, Smyrna became the center of Levantine trade. Mordecai became the Smyrna agent of an English trading house and managed to achieve some wealth in this role.\n\nIn accordance with the prevailing Jewish custom of the time, Sabbatai's father had him study the Talmud. He attended a \"yeshiva\" under the rabbi of Smyrna, Joseph Escapa. Studies in \"halakha\" (Jewish law) did not appeal to him, but apparently Zevi did attain proficiency in the Talmud. On the other hand, he was fascinated by mysticism and the Kabbalah, as influenced by Isaac Luria. He found the practical kabbalah – with its asceticism, through which its devotees claimed to be able to communicate with God and the angels, to predict the future and to perform all sorts of miracles, especially appealing.\n\nDuring the first half of the 17th century, millenarian ideas of the approach of the Messianic time were popular. They included ideas of the redemption of the Jews and their return to the land of Israel, with independent sovereignty. The apocalyptic year was identified by Christian authors as 1666 and millenarianism was widespread in England. This belief was so prevalent that Manasseh ben Israel, in his letter to Oliver Cromwell and the Rump Parliament, appealed to it as a reason to readmit Jews into England, saying, \"[T]he opinions of many Christians and mine do concur herein, that we both believe that the restoring time of our Nation into their native country is very near at hand.\"\nBesides being involved in other commercial activities, Sabbatai's father was the agent for an English trading house in Smyrna and must have had some business contact with English people. Sabbatai could have learned something about these Western millenarian expectations at his father's house.\n\nApart from this general Messianic theory, there was another computation, based on an interpreted passage in the \"Zohar\" (a famous Jewish mystical text), and particularly popular among the Jews, according to which the year 1648 was to be the year of Israel's redemption by their long-awaited Jewish Messiah.\n\nAt age 22 in 1648, Sabbatai started declaring to his followers in Smyrna that he was the true Messianic redeemer. In order to prove this claim he started to pronounce the Tetragrammaton, an act which Judaism emphatically prohibited to all but the Jewish high priest in the Temple in Jerusalem on the Day of Atonement. For scholars acquainted with rabbinical, and kabbalistic literature, the act was highly symbolic. He revealed his Messiahship early on to Isaac Silveyra and Moses Pinheiro, the latter a brother-in-law of the Italian rabbi and kabbalist Joseph Ergas.\n\nHowever, at this point he was still relatively young to be thought of as an accepted and established rabbinic authority; and his influence in the local community was not widespread. Even though Sabbatai had led the pious life of a mystic in Smyrna for several years, the older and more established rabbinic leadership was still suspicious of his activities. The local college of rabbis, headed by his teacher, Joseph Escapa, kept a watchful eye on him. When his Messianic pretensions became too bold, they put him and his followers under \"cherem\", a type of excommunication in Judaism.\n\nAbout the year 1651 (according to others, 1654), the rabbis banished Sabbatai and his disciples from Smyrna. It is not certain where he went from there. By 1658, he was in Constantinople, where he met a preacher, Abraham Yachini (a disciple of Joseph di Trani), who confirmed Sabbatai's messianic mission. Yachini is said to have forged a manuscript in archaic characters which, he alleged, bore testimony to Sabbatai's Messiahship. It was entitled \"The Great Wisdom of Solomon\", and began:\n\n\"I, Abraham, was confined in a cave for forty years, and I wondered greatly that the time of miracles did not arrive. Then was heard a voice proclaiming, 'A son will be born in the Hebrew year 5386 <nowiki>[</nowiki>the year 1626 CE<nowiki>]</nowiki> to Mordecai Zevi; and he will be called Shabbethai. He will humble the great dragon; ... he, the true Messiah, will sit upon My throne.\"\n\nWith this document, Sabbatai chose Salonica, at that time a center of kabbalists, for his base. He proclaimed himself the Messiah or \"anointed one,\" gaining many adherents. He put on all sorts of mystical events — e.g., the celebration of his marriage as the \"One Without End\" (the \"Ein Sof\") with the Torah, preparing a solemn festival to which he invited his friends. The rabbis of Salonica, headed by Rabbi Hiyya Abraham Di Boton, banished him from the city. The sources differ widely as to the route he took after this expulsion, with Alexandria, Athens, Constantinople, Jerusalem, and Smyrna mentioned as temporary centers. After wandering, he settled in Cairo, where he resided for about two years (1660–1662).\n\nRaphael Joseph Halabi (\"of Aleppo\") was a wealthy and influential Jew who held the high position of mint-master and tax-farmer in Cairo under the Ottoman government. He led an ascetic life, which included fasting, bathing in cold water, and scourging his body at night. He used his great wealth for charity, supporting poor Talmudists and Kabbalists, fifty of whom reportedly dined at his table regularly. Sabbatai befriended Raphael Joseph, who became a supporter and promoter of his Messianic claims.\n\nAbout 1663 Sabbatai moved on to Jerusalem. Here he resumed his former ascetic practice of frequent fasting and other penances. Many saw this as proof of his extraordinary piety. He was said to have a good voice, and sang psalms all night long, or at times Spanish love-songs, to which he gave mystical interpretations. He attracted crowds of listeners. At other times he prayed and cried at the graves of pious men and women. He distributed sweetmeats to children on the streets. Gradually he gathered a circle of adherents.\n\nThe important community of Jerusalem at the time was also in need of money to keep up with the heavy taxes imposed on it by the Ottoman government. The community was coming up short of funds to pay these levies, and these arrears could have dire consequences. Sabbatai, known as the favorite of the rich and powerful Raphael Joseph Halabi in the Turkish government center in Cairo, was chosen as the community envoy to appeal to Halabi for money and support. His success in getting the funds to pay off the Turks raised his prestige. His followers dated his public career from this journey to Cairo.\n\nAnother event helped spread Sabbatai's fame in the Jewish world of the time in the course of his second stay in Cairo. During the Chmielnicki massacres in Poland, a Jewish orphan girl named Sarah, about six years old, was found by Christians and sent to a convent for care. After ten years, she escaped (through a miracle she claimed), and made her way to Amsterdam. Some years later she went to Livorno where, according to reports, she led a life of prostitution. She also conceived the notion that she was to become the bride of the Messiah, who was soon to appear.\n\nWhen the report of Sarah's adventures reached Cairo, Sabbatai claimed that such a consort had been promised to him in a dream because he, as the Messiah, was bound to fall in love with an unchaste woman. He reportedly sent messengers to Livorno to bring Sarah to him, and they were married at Halabi's house. Her beauty and eccentricity reportedly helped him gain new followers. Through her a new romantic and licentious element entered Sabbatai's career. Even the overturning of her past scandalous life was seen by Sabbatai's followers as additional confirmation of his messiahship, following the biblical story of the prophet Hosea, who had also been commanded to take a \"wife of whoredom\" as the first symbolic act of his calling.\n\nWith Halabi's financial and political backing, a charming wife, and many additional followers, Sabbatai triumphantly returned to Jerusalem. Passing through the city of Gaza, which at the time had an important Jewish community, he met Nathan Benjamin Levi, known since as Nathan of Gaza (נתן עזתי \"Nathan 'Azzati\"). Nathan became very active in Sabbatai's subsequent Messianic career, serving as Sabbatai's right-hand man and declaring himself to be the risen Elijah, who, it was predicted, would proclaim the arrival of the Messiah. In 1665, Nathan announced that the Messianic age would begin the following year with the conquest of the world without bloodshed. The Messiah would lead the Ten Lost Tribes back to the Holy Land, \"riding on a lion with a seven-headed dragon in its jaws\".\n\nThe rabbis of Jerusalem viewed Sabbatai's movement with great suspicion, and threatened its followers with excommunication. Acknowledging that Jerusalem would not be the best place to enact his plans, Sabbatai left for his native city, Smyrna. Nathan proclaimed that henceforth Gaza, and not Jerusalem, would be the sacred city. On his way from Jerusalem to Smyrna, Sabbatai was greeted enthusiastically in Aleppo. In Smyrna, which he reached in the autumn of 1665, the greatest homage was paid to him. After some hesitation, he publicly declared himself to be the expected Messiah during the Jewish New Year in 1665; his declaration was made in the synagogue, with the blowing of horns, and shouts of \"Long live our King, our Messiah!\"\n\nHis followers began to refer to him with the title AMIRAH, a Hebrew acronym for the phrase \"Our Lord and King, his Majesty be exalted\" (\"Adoneinu Malkeinu Yarum Hodo\").\n\nAssisted by his wife, Sabbatai became the leader of the community. He used his power to crush the opposition. He deposed the existing rabbi of Smyrna, Aaron Lapapa, and appointed Chaim Benveniste in his place. His popularity grew, as people of all faiths repeated his story. His fame extended far and wide. Italy, Germany, and the Netherlands had centers of his Messianic movement. The Jews of Hamburg and Amsterdam learned of the events in Smyrna from trustworthy Christians. Henry Oldenburg, a distinguished German savant who became the first secretary of the Royal Society, wrote to Baruch Spinoza (\"Spinozae Epistolae\" No 33): \"All the world here is talking of a rumour of the return of the Israelites ... to their own country. ... Should the news be confirmed, it may bring about a revolution in all things.\"\n\nSabbatai's followers included many prominent rabbis, such as Isaac Aboab da Fonseca, Moses Raphael de Aguilar, Moses Galante, Moses Zacuto, and the above-mentioned Hayyim Benveniste. Dionysius Musaphia, an adherent of Spinoza, likewise became a follower. People spread fantastic reports, which were widely believed. For example, it was said, \"In the north of Scotland a ship had appeared with silken sails and ropes, manned by sailors who spoke Hebrew. The flag bore the inscription 'The Twelve Tribes of Israel'.\" The Jewish community of Avignon, France prepared to emigrate to the new kingdom in the spring of 1666.\n\nThe readiness of the Jews to believe the messianic claims of Sabbatai Zevi may largely be explained by the desperate state of European Jewry in the mid-17th century. The bloody pogroms of Bohdan Khmelnytsky had wiped out around 100,000 Jews in Eastern Europe, or more, others put the numbers killed at between 40,000 and 100,000, about one third of Europe's Jewish population at the time and destroyed many centers of Jewish learning and communal life. There is no doubt that for most of the Jews of Europe there could not have been a more propitious moment for the messiah to deliver salvation than the moment Sabbetai Zevi made his appearance.\n\nProbably with his consent, Sabbatai's adherents planned to abolish many of the ritualistic observances because, according to a minority opinion in the Talmud, in the Messianic time there would no longer be holy obligations. The fast of the Tenth of Tevet became a day of feasting and rejoicing. Samuel Primo, who became Sabbatai's secretary when the latter went to Smyrna, directed in the name of the Messiah the following circular to all of the Jews:\n\n\"The first-begotten Son of God, Shabbethai Tebi, Messiah and Redeemer of the people of Israel, to all the sons of Israel, Peace! Since ye have been deemed worthy to behold the great day and the fulfilment of God's word by the Prophets, your lament and sorrow must be changed into joy, and your fasting into merriment; for ye shall weep no more. Rejoice with song and melody, and change the day formerly spent in sadness and sorrow into a day of jubilee, because I have appeared.\"\n\nPrimo's message was considered blasphemous, as Sabbatai wanted to celebrate his birthday rather than the holy day. There was outrage and dissension in the communities; many of the leaders who had regarded the movement sympathetically were shocked at such radical innovations. Solomon Algazi, a prominent Talmudist of Smyrna, and other members of the rabbinate who opposed the abolition of the fast, narrowly escaped death at the hands of Sabbatai's followers.\n\nAt the beginning of the year 1666, Sabbatai left Izmir for Constantinople (İstanbul in present-day Turkey). He may have been forced to flee by city officials. Nathan Ghazzati had prophesied that, once in Constantinople, Sabbatai would place the sultan's crown on his own head. The grand vizier, Ahmed Köprülü, ordered Sabbatai's immediate arrest upon his arrival and had him imprisoned, maybe to avoid any doubts among local and foreign observers of the imperial court as to the power still wielded by the Turkish Sultanate and by the Sultan himself.\n\nSabbatai's imprisonment discouraged neither him nor his followers at this stage. He was treated well in prison, perhaps because of bribes paid. This seems to have strengthened belief within his immediate circle of followers. Fabulous reports concerning the miraculous deeds \"the Messiah\" was performing in the Turkish capital were spread by Ghazzati, Abraham Yachini, and Primo among the Jews of Smyrna and in many other communities, and the messianic expectations in the Jewish diasporas continued to rise.\n\nAfter two months' imprisonment in Constantinople, Sabbatai was moved to the state prison at Abydos. Some of his friends were allowed to accompany him. As a result, the Sabbataians called the fortress \"Migdal Oz\" (Tower [of] Strength). As Sabbatai had arrived on the day preceding Passover, he slew a paschal lamb for himself and his followers. He ate it with its fat, a violation of Jewish Law. It is said that he pronounced over it the benediction: \"Blessed be God who hath restored again that which was forbidden.\"\n\nThe immense sums sent to him by his rich followers, the charms of the queenly Sarah, and the cooperation shown by the Turkish officials and others enabled Sabbatai to display royal splendor in the prison castle of Abydos. Accounts of his life there were exaggerated and spread among Jews in Europe, Asia, and Africa. In some parts of Europe, Jews began to unroof their houses and prepare for a new \"exodus\". In almost every synagogue, Sabbatai's initials were posted, and prayers for him were inserted in the following form: \"Bless our Lord and King, the holy and righteous Sabbatai Zevi, the Messiah of the God of Jacob.\" In Hamburg, the council introduced the custom of praying for Sabbatai not only on Saturday (the Jewish Sabbath), but also on Monday and Thursday. Unbelievers were compelled to remain in the synagogue and join in the prayer with a loud \"Amen\". Sabbatai's picture was printed together with that of King David in most of the prayer-books, along with his kabbalistic formulas and penances.\n\nThese and similar innovations caused great commotion in some communities. In Moravia excitement reached such a pitch that the government had to intervene, while at Sale, Morocco, the emir ordered a persecution of the Jews. During this period Sabbatai declared the fasts of the Seventeenth of Tammuz and the Ninth of Av (his birthday) would henceforth be feast-days. He contemplated converting the Day of Atonement to one of celebration.\n\nWhile Sabbatai was in the Abydos prison an incident occurred which ultimately led to Sabbatai's downfall. Two prominent Polish Talmudists from Lwów, Lesser Poland, who were among Sabbatai's visitors in Abydos, informed him that in their native country a prophet, Nehemiah ha-Kohen, had announced the coming of the Messiah. Sabbatai ordered the prophet to appear before him. (See \"Jew. Encyc.\" ix. 212a, s.v. Nehemiah ha-Kohen). Nehemiah obeyed, reaching Abydos after a journey of three months at the beginning of September, 1666. The meeting between the two ended in mutual dissatisfaction. Some Sabbataians are said to have contemplated the secret murder of the rival.\n\nNehemiah, however, escaped to Constantinople, where he pretended to embrace Islam to get an audience with the kaymakam. He told him of Sabbatai's ambitions. The kaymakam informed the sultan, Mehmed IV. Sabbatai was taken from Abydos to Adrianople, where the sultan's vizier gave him three choices; subject himself to a trial of his divinity in the form of a volley of arrows (in which should the archers miss, his divinity would be proven); be impaled; or he could convert to Islam. On the following day (September 16, 1666) Zevi came before the sultan, cast off his Jewish garb and put a Turkish turban on his head. Thus his conversion to Islam was accomplished. The sultan was much pleased, and rewarded Sabbatai by conferring on him the title (Mahmed) \"Effendi\", and appointing him as his doorkeeper with a generous salary. Sarah and approximately 300 families among Sabbatai's followers also converted to Islam. These new Muslims thereafter were known as dönmeh (converts). The sultan's officials ordered Sabbatai to take an additional wife to demonstrate his conversion. Some days after his conversion he wrote to Smyrna: \"God has made me an Ishmaelite; He commanded, and it was done. The ninth day of my regeneration.\"\n\nSabbatai's conversion devastated his followers. Muslims and Christians alike ridiculed his followers after the event. In spite of Sabbatai's apostasy, many of his adherents still clung tenaciously to their belief in him, claiming that his conversion was a part of the Messianic scheme. Prophets such as Ghazzati and Primo, who were interested in maintaining the movement, encouraged such belief. In many communities, the Seventeenth of Tammuz and the Ninth of Av were still observed as feast-days in spite of bans and excommunications by the rabbis.\n\nAt times Sabbatai assumed the role of a pious Muslim and reviled Judaism; at others he associated with Jews as one of their own faith. In March, 1668, he announced that he had been filled with the \"Holy Spirit\" at Passover, and had received a \"revelation.\" He, or one of his followers, published a mystical work claiming Sabbatai was the true Messiah in spite of his conversion, whose goal was to bring thousands of Muslims to Judaism. He told the sultan, however, that he was trying to convert Jews to Islam. The sultan permitted Sabbatai to associate with other Jews and preach in their synagogues. He succeeded in bringing over a number of Muslims to his kabbalistic views. Whether through his efforts or their willingness to follow in his latest steps, about 300 families of Sephardic Jews converted to Islam, becoming known as the \"Dönmeh\" (also spelled \"Dönme\"), convert. Some of the followers adhered to a combination of their former Jewish practices as well as Islam.\n\nGradually the Turks tired of Sabbatai's schemes. They ended his doorkeeper's salary and banished him to Constantinople. When he was discovered singing psalms with Jews, the grand vizier ordered his banishment to Dulcigno (today called Ulcinj), a small town in present-day Montenegro. In August 1676, he wrote to the Jewish Community in Berat, Albania, requesting religious books, but he died shortly after in isolation, according to some accounts on September 17, 1676, the High Holy Day of Yom Kippur. His tomb was believed for a long time to have been in Berat, at a \"tekke\" built in the yard of the \"Sultan Mosque\" (), where a tomb stood until 1967. Recently, scholars support the theory that he was buried in Dulcigno. His biographer Gershom Scholem mentions that his tomb was visited by Dönme pilgrims from Salonika until the early 20th century.\n\n\"By the 1680s, the Dönme had congregated in Salonica, the cosmopolitan and majority-Jewish city in Ottoman Greece. For the next 250 years, they would lead an independent communal life — intermarrying, doing business together, maintaining their own shrines, and handing down their secret traditions.\" By the 19th century, the \"Dönmeh\" had become prominent in the tobacco and textile trades. They established progressive schools and some members became politically active. Some joined the Committee on Union and Progress (CUP), the revolutionary party known as the Young Turks. With independence, in the 1910s, Greece expelled the Muslims from its territory, including the \"Dönmeh\". Most migrated to Turkey, where by mid-century they were becoming highly assimilated.\n\nAt the beginning of 1673, the sultan had Zevi exiled to Ulcinj (\"Dulcigno\", ). His wife died there in 1674, after which Zevi married the daughter of rabbi Joseph Filosoff of Thessaloniki. He died on 17 September 1676. Upon his death, his widow, brother and children by his first wife moved to Thessaloniki.\n\nAlthough rather little is known about them, various groups called Dönmeh (Turkish for \"convert\") continue to follow Sabbatai Zevi today, mostly in Turkey. Estimates of the numbers vary. Many sources claim that there are fewer than 100,000 and some of them claim there are several hundred thousand in Turkey. They have been described as presenting themselves as Muslim in public whilst practising their own forms of messianic/mystical Jewish beliefs in private.\n\nThe Dönme eventually split into three sects, each with quite different beliefs, as Ottoman Jewish scholars Abraham Danon, and Joseph Néhama had pointed out in French-language Jewish studies journal articles over 100 years ago. In the 1930s a new comprehensive study on the history of the sects was also published in French by Abraham Galanté. More recently, Professor Cengiz Şişman, has published a new study called \"The Burden of Silence\". According to a review of his views published in the Israeli newspaper Jerusalem Post, the branch known as Karakaş follow Sufi-influenced practices, while the Kapancıs have not been influenced by Islam at all, and are now completely secular.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34883886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34883886", "title": "Shafaqna", "text": "Shafaqna\n\nShafaqna (Persian: شفقنا; International Shia News Association or Shia News Agency) is one of the main international Shia news-gathering organisations. It focuses on news relating to Shia Islam. It started its activities on Friday, February 24, 2012. It is an independent medium implemented in five languages: English, Persian, Arabic, Turkish and Urdu. Material in Arabic is produced out of Najaf, Persian from Tehran, Turkish from Istanbul, and English from Kashmir. Shafaqna has also launched several independent pages: Pakistan, India, Lebanon, Bahrain, Iraq.\n\nShafaqna explained its editorial intent to extend its coverage to all Islamic and specifically Shia events and activities across the world. It would inaugurate dialogues between Shia Islam and other faiths and religions.\n\nShafaqna is recognised as a news organisation close to the Ayatollah Ali Sistani and has published several article about his doctrine that may indeed be his legacy. Shafaqna also publishes Sistani fatwas frequently. Much of Shafaqna progress is credited to its access to the Najaf seminary and publishing some rare photos of the tomb of prophet Muhammad and his daughter's (Fatemeh) house and exclusive news of the top Maraji of Najaf Hawzah Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani.\n\nIn June 2014 Shafaqna launched a news reader called Lnews (latest news by country: most popular news headlines). Shafaqna International News Reader originated as an Internet-based news aggregator so the text which appears on the chain of websites is made up of a list of items and contents presented in RSS feeds offered by news gathering organisations and websites across the world. It operates in different languages mainly English, Arabic, Persian, Spanish, French, Urdu, Dutch, and Chinese. This news reader categorized news into \"Last News\", \"Featured\", \"Most popular.\n\nAs it is presented in its front page, Lnews (By Country News Reader) covers more than 100 countries and news and articles originally come from a range of global, regional and national news agencies, newspapers, and local web based news media from AP, AFP, EFE, and Reuters to CNN, BBC, CCTV, Kyodo, Xinhua, PRESS TV, IRIB, SPA, Itar-tass, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "3749951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3749951", "title": "Taghut", "text": "Taghut\n\nTaghut (ar. طاغوت, ṭāġūt, pl. ṭawāġīt) is an Islamic terminology denoting a focus of worship other than Allah. In traditional theology, the term often connotes idols, Satan and jinn.\nThe term is also applied to earthly tyrannical power, as implied in surah An-Nisa verse 60. The modern Islamic philosopher Abul A'la Maududi defines \"taghut\" in his Qur'anic commentary as a creature who not only rebels against God but transgresses his will. Due to these associations, the term may refer to any person or group accused of being anti-Islamic and an agent of Western cultural imperialism. The term was introduced to modern political discourse since the usage surrounding Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini during the 1979 Iranian Revolution, through accusations made both by and against Khomeini.\n\nThe Arabic word \"\" is derived from the three-letter Arabic verbal root of \"T-G-T\" which means to \"cross the limits, overstep boundaries,\" or \"to rebel.\" From this, \"Taghut\" denotes one who exceeds their limits. This notion is associated with the three stages of disbelief in the Islamic context. The first stage of error is \"fisq\" (i.e. disobeying God without denying that one should obey Him), the second is \"kufr\", (i.e. rejection of the very idea that one should obey God). The last stage would be not only to rebel against God but also impose their rebellion against the will of God upon others. Those who reach this stage are considered as \"taghut\".\n\nThe term \"taghut\" occurs eight times in the Qur'an.\nThis is taken to refer to an actual event in which a group of disbelieving Meccans went to two eminent Jewish figures for counsel on the truth of Muhammad's teachings and were told that the pagans were more rightly guided than Muslims.\nThe Arabic \"taghut\" is variously interpreted to refer to idols, a specific tyrant, an oracle, or an opponent of the Prophet.\n\nAgain, this term \"taghut\" has been used here.\n"}
{"id": "34077321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34077321", "title": "The Book of Zombie", "text": "The Book of Zombie\n\nThe Book of Zombie is a 2010 American independent horror film written by Erik Van Sant and directed by Scott Kragelund, Paul Cranefield and Erik Van Sant. Brian Ibsen, Larisa Peters, Andrew Loviska, Paul Cantu, Bill Johns, Adrienne MacIain, Andy Evans, Adam Gehrke, and Elissa Dowling star as survivors of a Mormon-themed zombie attack.\n\nOn Halloween in a small, sleepy town in Utah, David Driscoll and Jenny King, who are involved in a relationship gone cold, try to settle down for a romantic evening, but they are visited by two Mormon missionaries, who seem to suffer from a small affliction. David shrugs them off with a few bad jokes and tries to resume his evening plans when the Mormons ring again – this time, as blood-thirsty zombies, along with several others who begin to overrun their neighborhood. After escaping their door-callers when one of them recoils from a soda thrown in his face, David decides to see an acquaintance, a convenience shop and bar owner named Harry Linderman, who owns a double-barrel shotgun. They reach the shop, only to meet a youth named Darwin Nedry and his substance-sniffing friend Charlie Cooper, who tell them that Linderman left with his gun after a phone call reached him from his medieval-themed bar, \"The Drunken Dragon\".\n\nNot knowing how to retrieve their little daughter Charlotte, who is staying out of the house this night, without a weapon, David and Jenny decide to stay in the store for the time being. Soon, however, an armed, gritty hunter named Boothe Gardener stages a dramatic entrance into the store and stays for the night as well, following his own close brush with the zombified Mormon population in which his friend Charlie was killed. Owing to the incident at his house door, David concludes that the zombies are vulnerable to things which are taboo to Mormons, including caffeine. When a zombie breaks into the store, Gardener is mortally wounded after he tries to fight it off using non-caffeinated soda. Darwin destroys the zombie with caffeinated soda.\n\nForced to evacuate the store, David and company make for the \"Drunken Dragon\" but draw dozens of zombies. In the nick of time, they are led inside by armor-clad bartender Piper McKenzie, who tells them that Linderman was zombified during a zombie riot in the bar and is now kept locked up in a side room because she cannot bring herself to finish him. After discovering that Darwin keeps several explosive prank devices in his backpack, David devises a plan to reach Piper's car and get to his daughter by letting Linderman out, strapping the explosives and their scant soda supplies onto his back and using him as an involuntary suicide bomber to take out the zombies encroaching on the bar. The plan quickly goes awry when Linderman bites Darwin just after he is released, dooming him, before the youngster blasts his head with his own shotgun. Faced with no other choice, Darwin assumes the role of the bomber as a last heroic act, but he turns before he can light the fuse. Piper lights the explosives with a crossbow and fire arrow, but the blast proves too weak to take out all the zombies; before the door can be re-barricaded, the undead break into the bar and devour Piper alive, while Charlie faints.\n\nRetreating into the main taproom, David and Jenny fight and destroy the undead, but by retreating too far, Jenny is caught by a zombie breaking through a window and mortally wounded. After promising Jenny that he will find their daughter, David hugs her until she dies, decapitates her to prevent reanimation, and then kills the remaining zombies in a berserk rage. As morning dawns, David staggers off, filled with revenge, to finish the undead, with an unsure Charlie in tow.\n\nThe film ends in some institution where a file labelled \"The Utah Project\" containing information about mutation warfare is presented to a group of boardroom-type people, followed by a file detailing an upcoming project ominously named \"The Vatican Solution\". As the file courier exits the boardroom, the camera backtracks his path to the reception of an office building, where a receptionist answers a phone call with the words, \"Thank you for calling Church of Scientology. How may we help you?\"\n\n\nThe majority of the production was shot during the summer of 2007 and finished in 2009. The filmmakers did not single out Mormonism for any particular reason. The concept came from a joke during a brainstorming session, and one of the producers decided to develop it. Major influences include George A. Romero, Troma Entertainment, and Edgar Wright.\n\nThe premiere of \"The Book of Zombie\" was on June 11, 2011, at Seattle's True Independent Film Festival. In October 2012, it was featured in the collection of zombie shorts \"Ultimate Zombie Feast\", which was released in the UK.\n\nHorrorNews.net called \"The Book of Zombie\" \"one kick ass zombie film\". Gareth Jones of Dread Central called the film \"consistently funny and very entertaining\". In a mixed review, academic Peter Dendle wrote that \"not every gag in the horror-comedy hits home, but the boldness of the movie's premise goes a long way.\"\n\nThe film won the audience award at Seattle's True Independent Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "22726726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22726726", "title": "Thomas Henshaw (bishop)", "text": "Thomas Henshaw (bishop)\n\nThomas Henshaw (1873–1938) was the fifth Bishop of Salford, a Roman Catholic diocese in the north-west of England.\n\nHe was born on 2 February 1873 in Miles Platting in Manchester, the son of Thomas Henshaw, a Manchester coal merchant, and his wife Ann Billington. He was educated at the Salford Catholic Grammar School, the English College, Lisbon, and at St Cuthbert's College, Ushaw, where he taught French for three years as a Minor Professor.\n\nHe was ordained priest on 18 October 1899. Following ordination, Henshaw was sent to the Institut Catholique, Paris, where he specialised for three years in Dogmatic Theology. He then spent a year at Bonn University, before taking the chair in Dogmatic Theology at Ushaw College.\n\nIn 1905, Henshaw returned to his native Salford Diocese, serving for the next six years at St Bede's College as Professor and Vice-Rector. In 1912, he was appointed curate at St Alban, Blackburn until 1913, when he became Rector at the Holy Saviour, Nelson. In 1916, he moved to St Mary, Heaton Norris, and in 1920 took charge of St Gabriel, Castleton. In mid-1925 he was appointed parish priest at St Anne, Blackburn, where he completed the work building the new Byzantine church started by the previous priest, Fr William Shine, who had died suddenly earlier that year.\n\nBishop Louis Charles Casartelli had died in January 1925, but it would be almost a year before a replacement was appointed. That replacement was Henshaw, consecrated Bishop on 21 December 1925 at Salford Cathedral by Archbishop Keating. He was taken as a \"pastorally minded and pragmatic parish priest with financial acumen and quiet scholarship\".\n\nEducation was Henshaw's forte, even if the vision of Catholic education in Westminster and in Salford occasionally clashed. Particular problems of physically defective \"blacklisted\" schools and of the beginning of slum clearance in inner urban areas, taxed the mind and pocket of the Catholic community. The 1936 Education Act separated schools into Junior and Senior Schools and ended, at least in theory, the all-age parish elementary school.\n\nThe lay organisations continued to develop, with newcomers such as the Legion of Mary and the Young Christian Workers. Henshaw's attitude to the continual shortage of priests was simple: pray and the Lord will provide.\n\nIn 1926 the diocese also hosted the National Catholic Congress in Manchester. In 1927 he acquired the Wardley Hall Estate in Worsley as the official residence of the Bishop of Salford\n\nHe died on 23 September 1938, aged 65.\n"}
{"id": "18930995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18930995", "title": "Tianjing incident", "text": "Tianjing incident\n\nThe Tianjing Incident () occurred during the late Qing Dynasty from September 2 to October 1856. This was a major political internal conflict within the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom which took place in its capital city Tianjing. A few key leaders of the Taiping Rebellion were killed; the East King Yang Xiuqing, the North King Wei Changhui and the Yan King Qin Rigang. More than 27,000 other soldiers and civilians perished in the conflict as well. The Tianjing Incident was said to be one of the factors which led to the eventual failure of the Taiping Rebellion, as well as the turning point in its fate.\n\nIn 1851, the Taiping Rebellion's leader Hong Xiuquan conferred the title of 'King' on five of his most loyal followers and placed them under the jurisdiction of the East King Yang Xiuqing. After the deaths of the South King Feng Yunshan and the West King Xiao Chaogui, most of the power of the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom fell into the hands of Yang Xiuqing.\n\nIn the early years of the Taiping Rebellion, the real power of the military was in the hands of the Military Advisor (軍師) and the leader Heavenly King Hong Xiuquan did not actually wield any power in his hands and was merely a puppet leader. The real power of the military was actually in the hands of the East King Yang Xiuqing, who gained more power following the deaths of the South and West Kings. Hong Xiuquan declared in 1848 that the spirit of the 'Holy Father' (天父) would possess Yang Xiuqing and give him orders through Yang. This had allowed Yang to become even more influential and placed him in a position higher than Hong, as Yang often gave orders to Hong, who was supposed to be his superior, in the name of the 'Holy Father'. When this happened, Hong had no choice but to follow the orders of the 'Holy Father', which were actually Yang's orders.\n\nAfter the Taiping Army captured Nanjing and established its capital city there, renaming it to Tianjing, Yang Xiuqing's relationships with the other Kings gradually worsened. The North King Wei Changhui was flogged on Yang Xiuqing's orders once, as his subordinate had offended Yang. Later, Wei's relative had a dispute over property with Yang's relative, which angered Yang. Yang Xiuqing called Wei Changhui to decide the punishment for Wei's relative together, and Wei replied that his relative should be torn into five parts. Once, the Yi King Shi Dakai's father-in-law Huang Yukun offended Yang Xiuqing and was ordered to be flogged 300 times, and his nobility title removed and demoted. In the same incident, the Yan Prince Qin Rigang and another high-ranking official Chen Chengrong were also flogged on Yang Xiuqing's orders. Even the Heavenly King was not spared from being flogged, as Yang often pretended that the 'Holy Father' had possessed him and used the name of the 'Holy Father' to punish Hong Xiuquan. Yang Xiuqing monopolised the power of the kingdom and became increasingly influential, making him feared and hated by the others, but none dared to oppose him.\n\nOn 20 June 1856, the Taiping Army defeated the Qing army led by Xiang Rong and lifted the three-year-long siege on Tianjing. Xiang Rong died on 9 August and news of his death reached Tianjing. The East King Yang Xiuqing saw that the Kingdom was functioning well and began to make his plans to seize power.\n\nShortly afterwards, Yang Xiuqing pretended to be possessed by the 'Holy Father' and summoned the Heavenly King Hong Xiuquan to his residence. Yang said to Hong, \"You and the East King are both my sons. The East King has made significant contributions, so why is he still being hailed as *'Long Live for Nine Thousand Years' instead of 'Long Live for Ten Thousand Years'?\" Hong Xiuquan replied, \"The East King has indeed made significant contributions by conquering an empire, so he should be hailed as 'Long Live for Ten Thousand Years'.\" The 'Holy Father'-possessed Yang Xiuqing asked again, \"Should the East King's son be hailed as 'Long Live for a Thousand Years'?\" Hong Xiuquan replied, \"Since the East King is hailed as 'Long Live for Ten Thousand Years', his son and his descendants should also be hailed as 'Long Live for Ten Thousand Years' as well.\" The 'Holy Father'-possessed Yang Xiuqing said happily, \"I'm returning to heaven.\"\n\nShortly before seeking a title commiserate with Hong Xiuquan's, Yang dispatched Wei Changhui, Shi Dakai, and Qin Rigang to separate provinces. Hong, viewing Yang's request as treasonous, alerted the three generals to return at once. Wei returned to Nanjing with three thousand troops on September 1, 1856 and found that Qin Rigang had already arrived. In consultation with Hong Xiuquan and his allies, the two generals decided not to wait for Shi Dakai's arrival. Instead, they and their troops immediately stormed Yang's palace and slew him before he could escape. They then slaughtered his family and followers within the palace, despite having agreed with Hong that only Yang was to die. At this point, six thousand of Yang's followers remained in Nanjing. Hong and his generals agreed to set a trap for those men. Hong pretended to arrest Wei and Qin Rigang for their actions and invited Yang's followers to watch as the two were beaten. Once the majority of Yang's followers were inside, the beatings ceased and Yang's followers were imprisoned inside the halls from which they were watching the beatings. The next morning, they were all systemically slaughtered. Killings of Yang's followers continued for three additional months.\n\nShi Dakai finally reached Nanjing in October and blamed Wei Changhui for the excessive bloodshed. Wei in turn suggested that Shi may be a traitor Having been warned that he could be assassinated next, Shi fled Nanjing, leaving the same day he arrived. That night, Wei and Qin Rigang stormed Shi's mansion and slaughtered his family and retinue. Shi then consolidated an army of 100,000 and demanded the heads of Wei and Qin. Wei directed Qin to block Shi's advance and began plotting to imprison Hong Xiquan. Hong Xiuquan was able to preempt those plans, however, and had his bodyguards kill Wei. Qin was lured back and killed shortly thereafter.\n\nLater, Hong Xiuquan granted the deceased Yang Xiuqing amnesty and acquitted Yang of his crimes of harbouring the intention of usurping the throne. Yang Xiuqing's death was later marked as 'The East King ascends to Heaven'.\n\nAfter the Tianjing Incident, the leaders of the rebellion gradually lost popular support from the people, and the rebellion started to decline. The military's morale was greatly shaken and they started losing battles against the Qing armies. The turn of tide caused the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom's territories to become gradually reduced and it fell towards the losing end.\n\nAfter the deaths of the East King Yang Xiuqing and the North King Wei Changhui, the Yi King Shi Dakai was put in command of the Taiping Army and wielded control over the entire military. Hong Xiuquan was irate over Shi Dakai's popularity and feared that he might attempt to seize power again as Yang and Wei did, hence he appointed his brothers as Kings in order to weaken Shi Dakai's influence and prevent Shi from consolidating too much power. As Hong Xiuquan worked to undermine him, Shi Dakai realized that Hong's suspicions would not be dispelled, and that if he stayed he would face either murder or risk another civil war, Shi Dakai left Tianjing in 1857 with his army, which caused the Kingdom to be in greater peril.\n\nIn the early years of the Taiping Rebellion, the power of the military was in the hands of the Military Advisor (軍師), but after the Tianjing Incident and Shi Dakai's departure, the position of Military Advisor was not succeeded by anyone and only existed in name. Also, the government of the Kingdom gradually became more and more corrupt, which accounted for its decline and eventual collapse.\n"}
{"id": "14455397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14455397", "title": "Unga-Chuk", "text": "Unga-Chuk\n\nUnga-Chuck of the Nsswe Neppe, is a mythological character from the Meskwaki-Sauk tribal folklore. The tale comes from the Fox and Sac tribes in what is now central Iowa.\n\nThe Asikiwaki (or Sauk or Sac) tribe and the Meskwaki (or Fox) tribe. The Meskwaki and Asikiwaki Indians were related to each other and spoke the same language, but they were politically independent. However, the Fox tribe was nearly destroyed in a war with the French, and the surviving Fox Indians fled to the Sauk villages for protection. The two tribes merged into a single tribe called the Sac and Fox. Most Sac and Fox people still live together today. The version below was collected by John Tobin in his book \"With No Intention\".\n\nUnga-Chuck's story takes place on Cedar River in Iowa. Unga Chuck lived in a clearing by the banks of the river. The exact setting is referred to as the meeting of The Three Waters. He was the grandson of Chief Poweshiek and the son of Magor. He was considered the pride of the village. Life goes well for him until Magor his father does not return from a hunt. Unga Chuck then goes on to live with his grandfather and learns to become a great leader in his village.\n\nThe village lived very peaceful and happy lives with Unga Chuck marrying his sweetheart Lees-wa Later Unga-Chuck one day sees visions that upsets him. The first being three trees silhouetted like people on the horizon. The two trees were to one side of a tree that stood alone. Then Unga-Chuck saw three suns setting (possibly explained today as sundogs). The visions were strange and troubling to the tribe. However, since good fortune followed the signs were soon forgotten.\n\nA few years later an evil man in the village named Napatog started to hate Unga-Chuck becoming jealous of his skills and the fact that Unga_Chuck would be the next chief of the village. Napatog plans to murder Unga-Chuck, then he would become the next chief.\n\nNapatog waits until Unga-Chuck takes a morning walk in the foggy valley to carry out his plan of murder. He shots and kills Unga-Chuk with an arrow. The day turns bright and sunny except where the body of Unga-Chuck lies. The villagers soon began to worry about this mystery fog. The village soon discovers what has happened and rise up to drive Napatog away. The village is rewarded with a beautiful sunset that lets them know that Unga-Chuck has made it safely to his final resting place. Unga-Chuck's death brings peace to the village and he removes all evils from the tribes.\n\nThe story finishes with a red rose growing in Nesswe Neppe as proof that the blood spilled by Unga-Chuck nourished and made the ground of this land fertile and good.\n\nIt is said that on the anniversary of Unga-Chuck's death when the fog is lifting from the valley he can be heard still calling for his beloved Lees-Wa.\n\n"}
{"id": "6130091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6130091", "title": "Vincent Mercer", "text": "Vincent Mercer\n\nVincent Mercer, OP (born 1947 in Co. Kerry) is a Dominican priest and former headmaster at Newbridge College. He is a convicted sex offender, guilty of dozens of counts of sexual abuse of children.\n\nIn March 2003, he pleaded guilty at Naas District Court to four counts of indecent assault on a 13-year-old boy. He was given a sentence of six months imprisonment.\n\nHe was convicted in March 2005 of 13 sample charges of indecently assaulting eight boys aged 10–13, between 1970 and 1977. He received a three-year suspended sentence at Naas Circuit Criminal Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "92510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92510", "title": "Votan", "text": "Votan\n\nVotan is a legendary or mythological figure mentioned in early European accounts of the Maya civilization.\n\nThe story of Votan in Mexico dates back to at least the late 17th century. It was first published in \"Constituciones diocesanas del obispado de Chiappa\" (1702) by Francisco Núñez de la Vega, Bishop of Chiapas. According to Francisco Javier Clavijero:\n\nF. Núñez de la Vega, bishop of Chiapa, says, in the preface to his \"Synodal Constitutions\", that in the visit which he made to his diocese towards the end of the last century [i.e. the late 1600s], he found many ancient calendars of the Chiapanese, and an old manuscript in the language of that country, made by the Indians themselves, in which it was said, according to their ancient tradition, that a certain person named \"Votan\" was present at that great building, which was made by order of his uncle, in order to mount up to heaven; that then every people was given its language, and that Votan himself was charged by God to make the division of the lands of Anahuac. The prelate adds afterwards, that there was in his time in Teopixca a great settlement of that diocese, a family of the surname of Votan, who were the reputed descendants of that ancient populator. We are not here endeavoring to give the antiquity to the populator of America on the faith of the Chiapanese, but merely to shew that the Americans conceived themselves the descendants of Noah.\nIn his account, Bishop Núñez de Vega also states that Votan belonged to the royal lineage of \"Cham\" (probably \"chan\" or snake) and that he established a kingdom called \"Na Chan\" (Snake House) on the Usumacinta River that eventually extended across Chiapas and Soconusco to the Pacific Coast. Additional information can be found in a 1786 publication by Antonio del Río that cites the same sources as Clavigero and speculates at length on Votan's identity and travels to the Old World.\n\nAt a time when the origins of Pre-Columbian cultures were poorly understood, these clerics associated Votan with the Biblical stories of the Tower of Babel and Noah, speculating that he had come to Mexico from the Old World. This tradition has been perpetuated by additional fantastic speculations that have been sharply critiqued by subsequent scholarship. This includes the association of Votan with Palenque by Ramon de Ordoñez y Aguilar, a priest who had lived near the site and wrote one of the earliest descriptions of the ruins in 1773. Ordoñez apparently incorporated some of the information that had been collected earlier by Bishop Núñez de la Vega into a document called the \"Probanza de Votan\". \"This strange work contained some fragments from Ximénez and a confused account of Votan, culture hero of the Tzeltal people, who, according to Ordoñez, had built Palenque. Fantastic details described Votan's four trips back to the Middle East.\" The Tzeltal are an ethnic group that occupies the region that includes Teopisca, Chiapas, about 113 km southeast of Palenque. In the late 17th century, two hundred Tzeltal families \"of Votan's ancestry\" are said to have been living in Comitlan.\n\nAssertion of a relationship between Votan and Odin is found in the work of the distinguished geographer Alexander von Humboldt, who wrote in \"Vues des Cordillères\" (1810):\nWe have fixed the special attention of our readers upon this Votan, or Wodan, an American who appears in the same family with the Wods or Odins of the Goths and of the people of Celtic origins. Since, according to the learned researches of Sir William Jones, Odin and Buddha are probably the same person, it is curious to see the names of \"Bondvar\", \"Wodansdag\", and \"Votan\" designating in India, Scandinavia, and in Mexico the day of a brief period.\n\nIn \"Histoire des nations civilisées du Mexique et de l'Amérique Centrale\" (1857), Charles Étienne Brasseur de Bourbourg claimed Votan was an ancient Phoenician \"legislateur\" who had migrated from the Middle East to the Maya area, defeated a race called the Quiname, built the city of Palenque, and established an empire called Xibalba that was postulated by Brasseur de Bourbourg to have once covered all of Mexico and part of the United States. Subsequent Mayanist scholarship has found little support for Phoenician contact with ancient Mesoamerica, and identifies Xibalba as a mythical place rather than a political entity.\n\nExtensive analysis of the story of Votan appeared as commentary on the work of Antonio del Río by Paul Felix Cabrera in 1822. Critics of the LDS church have claimed that Cabrera's work had a strong influence on Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, founders of the Latter Day Saint movement. Smith reported having a vision in 1823 that eventually led him to the claimed discovery of golden plates that documented a group of ancient Israelites journey to the Americas, 960 years of their descendants history and their dealings with the god of the Israelites. These plates are the origin of the Book of Mormon.\n\nThe similarity between the names Votan and Wotan has also been the source of much confusion. Chapter IV of \"\" (1882) by Ignatius L. Donnelly, titled \"The God Odin, Woden, or Wotan\", repeats Clavigero's reference in the context of speculation about Atlantis and (following Brasseur de Bourbourg) also suggests that Votan built Palenque. Donnelly quotes Clavigero as saying that Votan \"conducted seven families from Valum-Votan to this continent, and assigned lands to them\", and implies that \"Valum-Votan\" may have been a reference to Atlantis. The story of Votan was further associated with the Atlantis legend by Lewis Spence in \"Atlantis in America\" (1925), who identifies Votan as \"a local name for Quetzalcoatl\" and provides a synopsis of the account by Núñez de la Vega. Votan has also been cited in the literature of Neo-Nazism and white supremacy that associates him with Quetzalcoatl and Kukulcan and asserts that he was a bearded, White European who came to Mexico in Pre-Columbian times. These interpretations are also considered to be problematic by recent Mayanist scholarship.\n\nAssociations of Votan with Palenque have led New Age spiritual leader José Argüelles to identify Pacal the Great as “Pacal Votan” and to identify himself as an emanation of “Valum Votan”. However, no mention of Votan has been found in the inscriptions of Palenque despite considerable progress in the decipherment of the extensive Maya inscriptions known for the site.\n\nA more critical evaluation suggests that Votan was a culture hero of the Tzeltal whose story may be based on that of a ruler who lived in the vicinity of Teopisca, Chiapas during the Postclassic period. He was referred to as \"Lord of the Horizontal Wooden Drum\" and \"jaguar god of darkness\" (\"ak'bal\"), and his name was one of twenty day names in the Tzeltal calendar. Ritual objects associated with Votan were removed from a sanctuary and burned in the main square of Huehuetlán by Bishop Núñez de la Vega in 1691.\n\nVotan is often described as the \"heart\" of indigenous people in Chiapas. The qualities of both culture hero and deep sentiment are expressed in the persona of Votan Zapata, a legendary manifestation of the spirit of Emiliano Zapata honored by members of the Zapatista Army of National Liberation (EZLN). \"Guardian and heart of the people is Votan-Zapata who is also the guardian and heart of the word. He, the man, the star with the five points who represents humanity, he. Today that we have spoken and listened, he is happy, the heart of Votan-Zapata is happy.\"\n"}
{"id": "56612738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56612738", "title": "Way of the Taiping", "text": "Way of the Taiping\n\nThe Way of the Taiping, also known as the Way of the Great Peace, was a Chinese Taoist movement founded by Zhang Jue during the Eastern Han Dynasty. Its adherents all around China participated in the Yellow Turban Rebellion of 184, with the rebellion being suppressed within the same year by the Eastern Han government. The religious movement was greatly reduced and died soon afterwards. The Way of the Taiping was one of the two largest movements within early Taoism, with the other being the Way of the Five Pecks of Rice. During the reign of Emperor Ling of Han, the movement was recorded to have been popular in eight Provinces: Qing Province, Xu Province, You Province, Ji Province, Jing Province, Yang Province, Yan Province, and Yu Province.。\n\nThe Way of the Taiping originated in the reign of Emperor Shun of Han of the Eastern Han Dynasty (126-144). A Fangshi named \"Gan Ji\" (Some later histories referred to him as Yu Ji) claimed that he received a divine book called the \"Taiping Qingling Shu\" (太平清領書) from a pond in Quyang County, and thereafter started to build elaborate temples and established rituals like the burning of incense and the reading of Taoist manuscripts. He also treated the people's (Baixing) illnesses with burnt Fulu mixed with water, and he became very popular amongst them. According to the \"Book of Later Han\", during the reign of Emperor Shun ( 125–144), Gong Chong (宮崇), one of Gan Ji's disciples, submitted the \"Taiping Qingling Shu\" (太平清領書) to the emperor, but did not receive substantial attention. Gong Chong's disciple Xiang Kai tried the same, but his efforts also faltered. Later on, the book fell into the hands of Zhang Jue, who established the Way of the Taiping.\n\nZhang Jue from Julu Commandery, having obtained the \"Taiping Qingling Shu\", declared himself \"Great Teacher\" (大賢良師), preached to his disciples and treated peoples' illnesses. He quickly became popular, as he sent his eight disciples around the country, using the \"Kind Way\" (善道) to preach to the commoners, and within ten years had followers numbering 100,000, across eight Provinces: Qing Province, Xu Province, You Province, Ji Province, Jing Province, Yang Province, Yan Province, and Yu Province. Zhang Jue split his followers into 36 \"Fang\"s (directions), with the bigger Fang having over 10,000 each, while the smaller Fangs having 7,000 people. He and his brothers gave themselves titles: Zhang Bao was the \"General of Land\" (地公將軍), Zhang Liang was the \"General of the People\" (人公將軍); and Zhang Jue was the \"General of Heaven\" (天公將軍). The Way of the Taiping acted like a military organisation thereafter.\n\nZhang Jue held a nine-section cane, and often proclaimed that people were sick and suffering because they had sinned. For them to recover, the patients must first reflect on their mistakes, and when they finally show contrition, he would make them drink the Fulu-water mixture. He praised those who recovered as having great faith, and for those who did not as having not enough. The Way of the Taiping worshiped the colour yellow, and followers wore yellow clothes with yellow headbands, and they worshiped the Yellow Emperor, Laozi and Taiyi (太一), who was the greatest God in the pantheon. Taiyi is an anthropomorphism of the North Star.\n\nZhang Jue proposed the slogan of \"Cangtian (heaven, blue sky) is dead, the Huangtian (yellow sky) has been established, the age is at Jiazi (184AD), tianxia experiences great fortune\" (蒼天已死，黃天當立，歲在甲子（184年），天下大吉), and theorised that of Zou Yan's cycle of five elements (Wu Xing), the Earth (Yellow) element was to replace the Han Dynasty's Fire element. Zhang Jue's followers wrote the slogan in the capital and yamen walls of the provinces and prefectures, and planned for the leader of the large Fangs Ma Yuanyi to lead the tens of thousands of followers from Jing Province and Yang Province to rise up on the 5th of March 184AD. Ma went around the capital and nearby cities to prepare for the rebellion, and had officials within the Palace walls as spies. But the central government caught wind of the conspiracy, and Ma was torn asunder by chariots for treason. Emperor Ling of Han ordered the arrest of Zhang Jue and his followers, and this prompted Zhang to initiate the Yellow Turban Rebellion in February, with the scale of the rebellion shocking the court. New followers flocked from all over the country to join the Way of the Taiping.\n\nWithin the same year of the uprising, Zhang Jue passed away from an illness, Zhang Bao was killed, and Zhang Liang fell in battle. The Yellow Turban Army still resisted in various locales for the next ten years, and many joined Cao Cao's army later on. The Way of the Taiping survived in a different form, even after the Jin Dynasty, in the worship of the Taiping Di Jun(太平帝君).\n\n"}
{"id": "36921562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36921562", "title": "Yanta, Lebanon", "text": "Yanta, Lebanon\n\nYanta is a village situated in Rashaya District, Beqaa Governorate, Lebanon, from Beirut. It is located close to the Syrian border north of Kfar Qouq.\n\nThe village sits about above sea level. The name is variously claimed to mean \"God sows\" or \"God the sower\" in Semitic, \"white dove\" in Syraic and \"elevation\" in Arabic. It has been noted that a special type of yellow marl (lake sediments) has been noticed in Yanta and the surrounding area dated to the Oxfordian. In 2001 and 2002, archaeological studies were carried out at Kamid al lawz near Yanta that unearthed a large amount of Ancient Greek pottery.\n\nThere are ruins of an impressively sized and positioned Roman temple in the area that is presumed to have been built on the site of a forerunning Semitic temple. The ruins lie on either side of the road and are sparse but retain some upright stones. Around the site are remnants of ancient habitation and tombs.\n\n"}
