{"id": "25805492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25805492", "title": "Abdagus", "text": "Abdagus\n\nAbdagus (fl. 873) was, according to 18th and 19th century historical books, a duke of Frisia.\n\nAbdagus, Duke of Frisia, appointed by Louis the German, headed in 873 the Frisians against the Danes, who had invaded Frisia under the Danish leader Rudolf, and destroyed and plundered large parts of the country. The battle was fierce, but Rudolf fell early with 500 compatriots (or 800, the sources disagree on this). The remainder fled to a stronghold, where they were besieged by the Frisians. One Norman, who had converted to Christianity and lived amongst the Frisians, and who has been said to have been Roruk, Rudolf's uncle, convinced them to end the siege and sign a pact. The Danes promised to return their plunder and never to return to the territory of King Louis. Theerafter, the sieged were allowed to return to their ships, keeping a few as hostages to maintain the pact.\n"}
{"id": "7760877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7760877", "title": "Abdul Wahid bin Zaid", "text": "Abdul Wahid bin Zaid\n\nAbdul Wahid bin Zaid Abul Fadl ('Abdul Wāḥid bin Zaid Abul Faḍl; died 21st Shawwal 793) was an early day Sufi Saint, a successor to Hasan al-Basri, second link in the Sufi Silsilah of Chishti Order, and the Master of Fudhail Bin Iyadh.\n\nAbdul Waahid Bin Zaid has been quoted in \"Fazail-e-Sadaqat\" as receiving advice from a Christian monk. He is also reported to have received education from Imam Abu Hanifah, before being initiated full-time as a Sufi by Khwaja Hasan al-Basri.\n\nHis year of birth is unknown but is said to be on 176, 177, or 186 Hijri, equating probably to 711 AD. The month is said to be 27th of Safar. His shrine is in Basrah, Iraq.\n\n"}
{"id": "24947458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24947458", "title": "Agafya Grushetskaya", "text": "Agafya Grushetskaya\n\nAgafya Semyonovna Grushetskaya () (1663 – 14 July 1681) was a Russian noble, Tsaritsa of Russia as the first spouse of Tsar Feodor III of Russia who hailed from the Grushetsky family.\n\nShe was a daughter of (voivode, and boyar) Semyon Fyodorovich Grushetsky and his spouse Mariya Ivanovna Zaborovskaya. She could speak and write Polish, French and Latin and was well informed about the Western European life style. She could also play harpsichord. She was described as beautiful as \"an angel of heaven\", with an easy going character. From 1677 she lived with her uncle, Semyon Zaborovsky, who did not wish her to marry. In 1680, Feodor, the tsar of the time, saw her during a religious procession: when she fainted after the sight of a witch in a religious theater play he rushed forward to support her, and fell in love with her. Aware that her uncle did not wish her to marry, a traditional summon was proclaimed to all unmarried noble women to gather for Feodor to choose from, and he chose her.\n\nOn 18 July 1680, she married Feodor. Agafya shared the radical views of her spouse. She opposed the influence of the Miloslavsky party, led by her husband's mother and sister, and supported Likhachev. Her husband's relative Ivan Iljitj Miloslavskii exposed her to slander, which caused a conflict, and was punished by Feodor. Her sisters were married to princes and her cousins were raised in rank by Feodor. Agafya has been described as an angelic tsarina, merciful and loyal to Feodor and the public's welfare. She was the first to advocate beard-shaving and the adoption of Western clothes at the Russian court. She herself was the first tsarina to expose her hair and to wear a Western (Polish) dress.\n\nOn 11 July 1681, the Tsarina gave birth to her son, Tsarevich Ilya Fyodorovich, the expected heir to the throne. Agafya died as a consequence of the childbirth three days later, on 14 July, and six days later, on 21 July, the nine-days-old Tsarevich also died. She was reportedly deeply mourned by Feodor.\n\n"}
{"id": "42468125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42468125", "title": "Ajjamada B. Devaiah", "text": "Ajjamada B. Devaiah\n\nAjjamada Boppayya Devayya is the only Air Force Officer to be posthumously awarded the Maha Vir Chakra (MVC). The Maha Vir Chakra is the second highest wartime gallantry award and is less in precedence only to the Param Vir Chakra. During the 1965 India-Pakistan War, Sqn Ldr A B Devayya (called 'Wings of Fire') was part of a strike mission (on the Pakistani airbase Sargodha) when he was attacked by an enemy aircraft. He shot down the enemy pursuer's plane but in the process his aircraft was damaged and he went missing. Presumably he died in Pakistani territory. 23 years later, in 1988, he was posthumously awarded the retrospective MVC award for this feat in the 1965 conflict.\n\nDevayya was born on 24 December 1932, at Coorg, Karnataka. He was the son of Dr. Bopayya. In 1954 he was commissioned into the Indian Air Force as a pilot. During the outbreak of the 1965 war, he was an instructor at the Air Force Flying College. He was posted to No.1 \"Tigers\" Squadron and flew the Mystere IVa fighter bomber.\n\nAs a senior flying instructor, Squadron Leader Devayya was part of an aircraft strike mission which went to Sargodha airfield in Pakistan. Despite actually being a standby in case one of the first 12 aircraft dropped out, he joined the air battle. Devayya was intercepted by an enemy F-104 Starfighter flown by Pakistani pilot Flt. Lt. Amjad Hussain. Devayya successfully evaded the Starfighter's attacks. But the faster aircraft caught up with him and damaged his plane. Yet Devayya attacked the Starfighter and struck it. The Starfighter went down while the pilot Hussain ejected from his seat and parachuted. It is not known what happened to Devayya. The IAF Mysteres were short on fuel and efficiency. The Mystere aircraft was destroyed and it is assumed that Devayya died on Pakistani soil.\n\nThe IAF was not aware of what had happened to Devayya, first recording him missing and later declaring him dead. Later, a British writer, John Fricker, was commissioned by the Pakistani Air Force to write an account of the war derived from Pakistani sources in 1979. What lead to Devayya's actual death still remains a mystery. It was revealed much later by Pakistan that Devayya's body was found almost intact by villagers not very far from Sargodha and buried.\n\nFrom Fricker's work, the IAF realised what had truly happened and in 1988 announced that the Maha Vir Chakra was to be awarded to Devayya posthumously. This is the only posthumous Maha Vir Chakra that the IAF has received. 21 IAF personnel (including two Canberra pilots Wg Cdr Jag Mohan Nath and late Wg Cdr Padmanabha Gautham who have the distinction of receiving the bar to the Maha Vir Chakra) have received the Maha Vir Chakra in four wars and numerous actions since 1947.\n\nMrs. Devayya accepted the posthumous Maha Vir Chakra awarded to her husband in 1988, nearly 23 years after the war. On September 7, 2009, the private bus stand circle in Madikeri in Kodagu was named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48653319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48653319", "title": "Artificial intelligence for video surveillance", "text": "Artificial intelligence for video surveillance\n\nArtificial intelligence for video surveillance utilizes computer software programs that analyze the images from video surveillance cameras in order to recognize humans, vehicles or objects. Security contractors program the software to define restricted areas within the camera's view (such as a fenced off area, a parking lot but not the sidewalk or public street outside the lot) and program for times of day (such as after the close of business) for the property being protected by the camera surveillance. The artificial intelligence (\"A.I.\") sends an alert if it detects a trespasser breaking the \"rule\" set that no person is allowed in that area during that time of day.\n\nThe A.I. program functions by using machine vision. Machine vision is a series of algorithms, or mathematical procedures, which work like a flow-chart or series of questions to compare the object seen with hundreds of thousands of stored reference images of humans in different postures, angles, positions and movements. The A.I. asks itself if the observed object moves like the reference images, whether it is approximately the same size height relative to width, if it has the characteristic two arms and two legs, if it moves with similar speed, and if it is vertical instead of horizontal. Many other questions are possible, such as the degree to which the object is reflective, the degree to which it is steady or vibrating, and the smoothness with which it moves. Combining all of the values from the various questions, an overall ranking is derived which gives the A.I. the probability that the object is or is not a human. If the value exceeds a limit that is set, then the alert is sent. It is characteristic of such programs that they are self-learning to a degree, learning, for example that humans or vehicles appear bigger in certain portions of the monitored image – those areas near the camera – than in other portions, those being the areas farthest from the camera.\n\nIn addition to the simple rule restricting humans or vehicles from certain areas at certain times of day, more complex rules can be set. The user of the system may wish to know if vehicles drive in one direction but not the other. Users may wish to know that there are more than a certain preset number of people within a particular area. The A.I. is capable of maintaining surveillance of hundreds of cameras simultaneously. Its ability to spot a trespasser in the distance or in rain or glare is superior to humans' ability to do so.\n\nThis type of A.I. for security is known as \"rule-based\" because a human programmer must set rules for all of the things for which the user wishes to be alerted. This is the most prevalent form of A.I. for security. Many video surveillance camera systems today include this type of A.I. capability. The hard-drive that houses the program can either be located in the cameras themselves or can be in a separate device that receives the input from the cameras.\n\nA newer, non-rule based form of A.I. for security called \"behavioral analytics\" has been developed. This software is fully self-learning with no initial programming input by the user or security contractor. In this type of analytics, the A.I. learns what is normal behavior for people, vehicles, machines, and the environment based on its own observation of patterns of various characteristics such as size, speed, reflectivity, color, grouping, vertical or horizontal orientation and so forth. The A.I. normalizes the visual data, meaning that it classifies and tags the objects and patterns it observes, building up continuously refined definitions of what is normal or average behavior for the various observed objects. After several weeks of learning in this fashion it can recognize when things break the pattern. When it observes such anomalies it sends an alert. For example, it is normal for cars to drive in the street. A car seen driving up onto a sidewalk would be an anomaly. If a fenced yard is normally empty at night, then a person entering that area would be an anomaly.\n\nLimitations in the ability of humans to vigilantly monitor video surveillance live footage led to the demand for artificial intelligence that could better serve the task. Humans watching a single video monitor for more than twenty minutes lose 95% of their ability to maintain attention sufficient to discern significant events. With two monitors this is cut in half again. Given that many facilities have dozens or even hundreds of cameras, the task is clearly beyond human ability. In general, the camera views of empty hallways, storage facilities, parking lots or structures are exceedingly boring and thus attention is quickly attenuated. When multiple cameras are monitored, typically employing a wall monitor or bank of monitors with split screen views and rotating every several seconds between one set of cameras and the next, the visual tedium is quickly overwhelming. While video surveillance cameras proliferated with great adoption by users ranging from car dealerships and shopping plazas to schools and businesses to highly secured facilities such as nuclear plants, it was recognized in hindsight that video surveillance by human officers (also called \"operators\") was impractical and ineffective. Extensive video surveillance systems were relegated to merely recording for possible forensic use to identify someone, after the fact of a theft, arson, attack or incident. Where wide angle camera views were employed, particularly for large outdoor areas, severe limitations were discovered even for this purpose due to insufficient resolution. In these cases it is impossible to identify the trespasser or perpetrator because their image is too tiny on the monitor.\n\nIn response to the shortcomings of human guards to watch surveillance monitors long-term, the first solution was to add motion detectors to cameras. It was reasoned that an intruder's or perpetrator's motion would send an alert to the remote monitoring officer obviating the need for constant human vigilance. The problem was that in an outdoor environment there is constant motion or changes of pixels that comprise the total viewed image on screen. The motion of leaves on trees blowing in the wind, litter along the ground, insects, birds, dogs, shadows, headlights, sunbeams and so forth all comprise motion. This caused hundreds or even thousands of false alerts per day, rendering this solution inoperable except in indoor environments during times of non-operating hours.\n\nThe next evolution reduced false alerts to a degree but at the cost of complicated and time-consuming manual calibration. Here, changes of a target such as a person or vehicle relative to a fixed background are detected. Where the background changes seasonally or due to other changes, the reliability deteriorates over time. The economics of responding to too many false alerts again proved to be an obstacle and this solution was insufficient.\n\nMachine learning of visual recognition relates to patterns and their classification. True video analytics can distinguish the human form, vehicles and boats or selected objects from the general movement of all other objects and visual static or changes in pixels on the monitor. It does this by recognizing patterns. When the object of interest, for example a human, violates a preset rule, for example that the number of people shall not exceed zero in a pre-defined area during a defined time interval, then an alert is sent. A red rectangle or so-called \"bounding box\" will typically automatically follow the detected intruder, and a short video clip of this is sent as the alert.\n\nThe detection of intruders using video surveillance has limitations based on economics and the nature of video cameras. Typically, cameras outdoors are set to a wide angle view and yet look out over a long distance. Frame rate per second and dynamic range to handle brightly lit areas and dimly lit ones further challenge the camera to actually be adequate to see a moving human intruder. At night, even in illuminated outdoor areas, a moving subject does not gather enough light per frame per second and so, unless quite close to the camera, will appear as a thin wisp or barely discernible ghost or completely invisible. Conditions of glare, partial obscuration, rain, snow, fog, and darkness all compound the problem. Even when a human is directed to look at the actual location on a monitor of a subject in these conditions, the subject will usually not be detected. The A.I. is able to impartially look at the entire image and all cameras' images simultaneously. Using statistical models of degrees of deviation from its learned pattern of what constitutes the human form it will detect an intruder with high reliability and a low false alert rate even in adverse conditions. Its learning is based on approximately a quarter million images of humans in various positions, angles, postures, and so forth.\n\nA one megapixel camera with the onboard video analytics was able to detect a human at a distance of about 350' and an angle of view of about 30 degrees in non-ideal conditions. Rules could be set for a \"virtual fence\" or intrusion into a pre-defined area. Rules could be set for directional travel, object left behind, crowd formation and some other conditions.\n\nOne of the most powerful features of the system is that a human officer or operator, receiving an alert from the A.I., could immediately talk down over outdoor public address loudspeakers to the intruder. This had high deterrence value as most crimes are opportunistic and the risk of capture to the intruder becomes so pronounced when a live person is talking to them that they are very likely to desist from intrusion and to retreat. The security officer would describe the actions of the intruder so that the intruder had no doubt that a real person was watching them. The officer would announce that the intruder was breaking the law and that law enforcement was being contacted and that they were being video-recorded.\n\nThe police receive a tremendous number of false alarms from burglar alarms. In fact the security industry reports that over 98% of such alarms are false ones. Accordingly, the police give very low priority response to burglar alarms and can take from twenty minutes to two hours to respond to the site. By contrast, the video analytic-detected crime is reported to the central monitoring officer, who verifies with his or her own eyes that it is a real crime in progress. He or she then dispatches to the police who give such calls their highest priority.\n\nAnalytics work with digital cameras or analog cameras that have analog-to-digital converters. Various companies aside from VideoIQ and Avigilon offer video analytics. In many cases the software samples down to standard definition or less, regardless of the camera's resolution. The advance achieved by Avigilon is true analytics on up to exceedingly high-resolution 30 megapixel cameras.\n\nWhile rule-based video analytics worked economically and reliably for many security applications there are many situations in which it cannot work. For an indoor or outdoor area where no one belongs during certain times of day, for example overnight, or for areas where no one belongs at any time such as a cell tower, traditional rule-based analytics are perfectly appropriate. In the example of a cell tower the rare time that a service technician may need to access the area would simply require calling in with a pass-code to put the monitoring response \"on test\" or inactivated for the brief time the authorized person was there.\n\nBut there are many security needs in active environments in which hundreds or thousands of people belong all over the place all the time. For example, a college campus, an active factory, a hospital or any active operating facility. It is not possible to set rules that would discriminate between legitimate people and criminals or wrong-doers.\n\nUsing behavioral analytics, a self-learning, non-rule-based A.I. takes the data from video cameras and continuously classifies objects and events that it sees. For example, a person crossing a street is one classification. A group of people is another classification. A vehicle is one classification, but with continued learning a public bus would be discriminated from a small truck and that from a motorcycle. With increasing sophistication, the system recognizes patterns in human behavior. For example, it might observe that individuals pass through a controlled access door one at a time. The door opens, the person presents their proximity card or tag, the person passes through and the door closes. This pattern of activity, observed repeatedly, forms a basis for what is normal in the view of the camera observing that scene. Now if an authorized person opens the door but a second \"tail-gating\" unauthorized person grabs the door before it closes and passes through, that is the sort of anomaly that would create an alert. This type of analysis is much more complex than the rule-based analytics. While the rule-based analytics work mainly to detect intruders into areas where no one is normally present at defined times of day, the behavioral analytics works where people are active to detect things that are out of the ordinary.\n\nA fire breaking out outdoors would be an unusual event and would cause an alert, as would a rising cloud of smoke. Vehicles driving the wrong way into a one-way driveway would also typify the type of event that has a strong visual signature and would deviate from the repeatedly observed pattern of vehicles driving the correct one-way in the lane. Someone thrown to the ground by an attacker would be an unusual event that would likely cause an alert. This is situation-specific. So if the camera viewed a gymnasium where wrestling was practiced the A.I. would learn it is usual for one human to throw another to the ground, in which case it would not alert on this observation.\n\nThe A.I. does not know or understand what a human is, or a fire, or a vehicle. It is simply finding characteristics of these things based on their size, shape, color, reflectivity, angle, orientation, motion, and so on. It then finds that the objects it has classified have typical patterns of behavior. For example, humans walk on sidewalks and sometimes on streets but they don't climb up the sides of buildings very often. Vehicles drive on streets but don't drive on sidewalks. Thus the anomalous behavior of someone scaling a building or a vehicle veering onto a sidewalk would trigger an alert.\n\nTypical alarm systems are designed to not miss true positives (real crime events) and to have as low of a false alarm rate as possible. In that regard, burglar alarms miss very few true positives but have a very high false alarm rate even in the controlled indoor environment. Motion detecting cameras miss some true positives but are plagued with overwhelming false alarms in an outdoor environment. Rule-based analytics reliably detect most true positives and have a low rate of false positives but cannot perform in active environments, only in empty ones. Also they are limited to the simple discrimination of whether an intruder is present or not.\n\nSomething as complex or subtle as a fight breaking out or an employee breaking a safety procedure is not possible for a rule based analytics to detect or discriminate. With behavioral analytics, it is. Places where people are moving and working do not present a problem. However, the A.I. may spot many things that appear anomalous but are innocent in nature. For example, if students at a campus walk on a plaza, that will be learned as normal. If a couple of students decided to carry a large sheet outdoors flapping in the wind, that might indeed trigger an alert. The monitoring officer would be alerted to look at his or her monitor and would see that the event is not a threat and would then ignore it. The degree of deviation from norm that triggers an alert can be set so that only the most abnormal things are reported. However, this still constitutes a new way of human and A.I. interaction not typified by the traditional alarm industry mindset. This is because there will be many false alarms that may nevertheless be valuable to send to a human officer who can quickly look and determine if the scene requires a response. In this sense, it is a \"tap on the shoulder\" from the A.I. to have the human look at something.\n\nBecause so many complex things are being processed continuously, the software samples down to the very low resolution of only 1 CIF to conserve computational demand. The 1 CIF resolution means that an object the size of a human will not be detected if the camera utilized is wide angle and the human is more than sixty to eighty feet distant depending on conditions. Larger objects like vehicles or smoke would be detectable at greater distances.\n\nThe utility of artificial intelligence for security does not exist in a vacuum, and its development was not driven by purely academic or scientific study. Rather, it is addressed to real world needs, and hence, economic forces. Its use for non-security applications such as operational efficiency, shopper heat-mapping of display areas (meaning how many people are in a certain area in a retail space), and attendance at classes are developing uses. Humans are not as well qualified as A.I. to compile and recognize patterns consisting of very large data sets requiring simultaneous calculations in multiple remote viewed locations. There is nothing natively human about such awareness. Such multi-tasking has been shown to defocus human attention and performance. A.I.s have the ability to handle such data. For the purposes of security interacting with video cameras they functionally have better visual acuity than humans or the machine approximation to it. For judging subtleties of behaviors or intentions of subjects or degrees of threat, humans remain far superior at the present state of the technology. So the A.I. in security functions to broadly scan beyond human capability and to vet the data to a first level of sorting of relevance and to alert the human officer who then takes over the function of assessment and response.\n\nSecurity in the practical world is economically determined so that the expenditure of preventative security will never typically exceed the perceived cost of the risk to be avoided. Studies have shown that companies typically only spend about one twenty-fifth the amount on security that their actual losses cost them. What by pure economic theory should be an equivalence or homeostasis, thus falls vastly short of it. One theory that explains this is cognitive dissonance, or the ease with which unpleasant things like risk can be shunted from the conscious mind. Nevertheless, security is a major expenditure, and comparison of the costs of different means of security is always foremost amongst security professionals.\n\nAnother reason that future security threats or losses are under-assessed is that often only the direct cost of a potential loss is considered instead of the spectrum of consequential losses that are concomitantly experienced. For example, the vandalism-destruction of a custom production machine in a factory or of a refrigerated tractor trailer would result in a long replacement time during which customers could not be served, resulting in loss of their business. A violent crime will have extensive public relations damage for an employer, beyond the direct liability for failing to protect the employee.\n\nBehavioral analytics uniquely functions beyond simple security and, due to its ability to observe breaches in standard patterns of protocols, it can effectively find unsafe acts of employees that may result in workers comp or public liability incidents. Here too, the assessment of future incidents' costs falls short of the reality. A study by Liberty Mutual Insurance Company showed that the cost to employers is about six times the direct insured cost, since uninsured costs of consequential damages include temporary replacement workers, hiring costs for replacements, training costs, managers' time in reports or court, adverse morale on other workers, and effect on customer and public relations. The potential of A.I. in the form of behavioral analytics to proactively intercept and prevent such incidents is significant.\n\n"}
{"id": "43765601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43765601", "title": "Barbara Adriaens", "text": "Barbara Adriaens\n\nBarbara Adriaens, alias Willem Adriaens (1611 – fl. 1636), was a Dutch soldier. Her case belongs to the most known and well documented legal cases of female transvestism and homosexuality during the early modern age in the Netherlands.\n\nAdriaens was at the age of thirteen placed in a house of correction for public drunkenness. After she was released, she tried to support herself as a domestic and a seamstress. In 1627 or 1628, she adopted male clothing and presented as male under the name Willem Adriaens. As such, she enlisted in the army. In Amsterdam, she married a woman, Hilletje Jans, who did not know of her anatomy. She avoided consummating the marriage by claiming to be sick. Her wife suspected her to be female, and after having accused her of this in public after an argument outside a public house, they caused a riot where Adriaens was almost lynched and then brought to trial. She stated in court that she had never felt sexual attraction to males, and her land lady witnessed that she was known to have a taste for female prostitutes. Homosexuality was punishable by death, but this law was in fact not used for female homosexuality, as intercourse was defined by penetration, and it was therefore deemed necessary that a female have a clitoris big enough to penetrate a women with for it to be considered a sexual act. Another criteria was that the women live together in a male and one female role. The last criteria was fulfilled, and the prosecutor recommended the death penalty. However, the French Duchess de Bouillon, who was visiting the town at this point, took an interest in the case, and prevented a death sentence. Instead, Adriaens was banished for a period of 24 years: according to reports, she was escorted out of town by great crowds. Her wife was given no punishment as she, which was common, was deemed not to have known anything of the true gender of her spouse. In 1636, Adriaens was again tried for the identical crime in Groningen, where she had lived as a man and married a woman, Alke Peter. This time she was banished for life. Her later life is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "23748305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23748305", "title": "Bayer", "text": "Bayer\n\nBayer AG (; ) is a German multinational pharmaceutical and life sciences company. Headquartered in Leverkusen, where its illuminated corporate logo, the Bayer cross, is a landmark, Bayer's areas of business include human and veterinary pharmaceuticals; consumer healthcare products; agricultural chemicals and biotechnology products; and high-value polymers. The company is a component of the Euro Stoxx 50 stock market index. Werner Baumann has been CEO since 2016.\n\nFounded in Barmen in 1863 as a dyestuffs factory, Bayer's first and best-known product was aspirin. In 1898 Bayer trademarked the name \"heroin\" for the drug diacetylmorphine and marketed it as a cough suppressant and non-addictive substitute for morphine until 1910. Bayer also introduced phenobarbital; prontosil, the first widely used antibiotic and the subject of the 1939 Nobel Prize in Medicine; the antibiotic Cipro (ciprofloxacin); and Yaz (drospirenone) birth control pills.\n\nIn 1925 Bayer was one of six chemical companies that merged to form IG Farben, the world's largest chemical and pharmaceutical company. The Allied Control Council seized IG Farben after World War II, because of its role in the Nazi war effort and involvement in the Holocaust, which included using slave labour from concentration camps. It was split into its six constituent companies in 1951, then split again into three: BASF, Bayer and Hoechst.\n\nBayer played a key role in the Wirtschaftswunder in post-war West Germany, quickly regaining its position as one of the world's largest chemical and pharmaceutical corporations. In 2006 the company acquired Schering, in 2014 it acquired Merck & Co.'s consumer business, with brands such as Claritin, Coppertone and Dr. Scholl's, and in 2018 it acquired Monsanto, a leading producer of genetically engineered crops, for $63 billion. Bayer CropScience develops genetically modified crops and pesticides.\n\nBayer AG was founded as a dyestuffs factory in 1863 in Barmen (later part of Wuppertal), Germany, by Friedrich Bayer and his partner, Johann Friedrich Weskott, a master dyer. Bayer was responsible for the commercial tasks. Fuchsine and aniline became the company's most important products.\n\nThe headquarters and most production facilities moved from Barmen to a larger area in Elberfeld in 1866. Friedrich Bayer (1851–1920), son of the company’s founder, was a chemist and joined the company in 1873. After the death of his father in 1880, the company became a joint-stock company, Farbenfabriken vorm. Friedr. Bayern & Co, also known as Elberfelder Farbenfabriken.\nA further expansion in Elberfeld was impossible, so the company moved to the village Wiesdorf at Rhein and settled in the area of the alizarin producer Leverkus and Sons. A new city, Leverkusen, was founded there in 1930 and became home to Bayer AG's headquarters. The company's corporate logo, the Bayer cross, was introduced in 1904, consisting of the word \"BAYER\" written vertically and horizontally, sharing the \"Y\" and enclosed in a circle. An illuminated version of the logo is a landmark in Leverkusen.\n\nBayer's first major product was acetylsalicylic acid—first described by French chemist Charles Frederic Gerhardt in 1853—a modification of salicylic acid or salicin, a folk remedy found in the bark of the willow plant. By 1899 Bayer's trademark Aspirin was registered worldwide for Bayer's brand of acetylsalicylic acid, but it lost its trademark status in the United States, France and the United Kingdom after the confiscation of Bayer's US assets and trademarks during World War I by the United States, and because of the subsequent widespread usage of the word.\n\nThe term \"aspirin\" continued to be used in the US, UK and France for all brands of the drug, but it is still a registered trademark of Bayer in over 80 countries, including Canada, Mexico, Germany and Switzerland. As of 2011 approximately 40,000 tons of aspirin were produced each year and 10–20 billion tablets consumed in the United States alone for prevention of cardiovascular events. It is on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system.\n\nThere is an unresolved controversy over the roles played by Bayer scientists in the development of aspirin. Arthur Eichengrün, a Bayer chemist, said he was the first to discover an aspirin formulation that did not have the unpleasant side effects of nausea and gastric pain. He also said he had invented the name \"aspirin\" and was the first person to use the new formulation to test its safety and efficacy. Bayer contends that aspirin was discovered by Felix Hoffmann to help his father, who had arthritis. Various sources support the conflicting claims. Most mainstream historians attribute the invention of aspirin to Hoffmann and/or Eichengrün.\n\nHeroin (diacetylmorphine), now illegal as an addictive drug, was introduced as a non-addictive substitute for morphine, and trademarked and marketed by Bayer from 1898 to 1910 as a cough suppressant and over-the-counter treatment for other common ailments, including pneumonia and tuberculosis. Bayer scientists were not the first to make heroin, but the company led the way in commercializing it. \"Heroin\" was a Bayer trademark until after World War I.\n\nIn 1903 Bayer licensed the patent for the hypnotic drug diethylbarbituric acid from its inventors Emil Fischer and Joseph von Mering. It was marketed under the trade name Veronal as a sleep aid beginning in 1904. Systematic investigations of the effect of structural changes on potency and duration of action at Bayer led to the discovery of phenobarbital in 1911 and the discovery of its potent anti-epileptic activity in 1912. Phenobarbital was among the most widely used drugs for the treatment of epilepsy through the 1970s, and as of 2014 it remains on the World Health Organization's list of essential medications.\n\nDuring World War I (1914–1918), Bayer's assets, including the rights to its name and trademarks, were confiscated in the United States, Canada and several other countries. In the United States and Canada, Bayer's assets and trademarks, including the well-known Bayer cross, were acquired by Sterling Drug, a predecessor of Sterling Winthrop and were not reclaimed until 1994.\n\nIn 1916 Bayer scientists discovered suramin, an anti-parasite drug that is still sold by Bayer under the brand name Germanin. The formula of suramin was kept secret by Bayer for commercial reasons, but it was elucidated and published in 1924 by Ernest Fourneau and his team at the Pasteur Institute. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines.\n\nIn 1925 Bayer became part of IG Farben, a German conglomerate formed from the merger of six chemical companies: BASF, Bayer, Hoechst (including Cassella and Chemische Fabrik Kalle), Agfa, Chemische Fabrik Griesheim-Elektron, and Chemische Fabrik vorm. Weiler Ter Meer. In the 1930s Gerhard Domagk, director of Bayer's Institute of Pathology and Bacteriology, working with chemists Fritz Mietzsch and Joseph Klarer, discovered prontosil, the first commercially available antibacterial drug. The discovery and development of this first sulfonamide drug opened a new era in medicine. Domagk won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1939 \"for the discovery of the antibacterial effects of prontosil\". He was forced by the Nazi Party to relinquish the reward; German citizens had been forbidden from accepting Nobel prizes since the Nobel committee had awarded the 1935 Nobel Peace Prize to a German pacifist, Carl von Ossietzky.\n\nHelge Wehmeier, then CEO of Bayer, offered a public apology in 1995 to Elie Wiesel for the company's actions during World War II (1939–1945) and the Holocaust. IG Farben, Bayer's parent company, used slave labour in factories it built in German concentration camps, most notably in the Monowitz concentration camp (known as Auschwitz III), part of the Auschwitz camp complex in German-occupied Poland. By 1943 almost half of IG Farben's 330,000-strong workforce consisted of slave labour or conscripts, including 30,000 Auschwitz prisoners.\n\nHelmuth Vetter, an Auschwitz camp physician, SS captain and employee of the Bayer group within IG Farben conducted medical experiments on inmates at Auschwitz and at the Mauthausen concentration camp. In one study of an anaesthetic, the company paid RM 170 per person for the use of 150 female inmates of Auschwitz. A Bayer employee wrote to Rudolf Höss, the Auschwitz commandant: \"The transport of 150 women arrived in good condition. However, we were unable to obtain conclusive results because they died during the experiments. We would kindly request that you send us another group of women to the same number and at the same price.\"\n\nAfter the war, the Allied Control Council seized IG Farben for \"knowingly and prominently ... building up and maintaining German war potential\". It was split into its six constituent companies in 1951, then split again into three: BASF, Bayer and Hoechst. Bayer was at that point known as Farbenfabriken Bayer AG; it changed its name to Bayer AG in 1972. Fritz ter Meer, an IG Farben director and Nazi Party member who directed operations at the IG Farben plant at Auschwitz, was sentenced in 1948 to seven years for war crimes during the IG Farben Trial at Nuremberg. Released in 1950, he was elected chair of Bayer's supervisory board in 1956 and remained in that position until 1964.\n\nIn 1953 Bayer brought the first neuroleptic (chlorpromazine) onto the German market. In the 1960s Bayer introduced a pregnancy test, Primodos, that consisted of two pills that contained norethisterone (as acetate) and ethinylestradiol. It detected pregnancy by inducing menstruation in women who were not pregnant; the presence or absence of menstrual bleeding was then used to determine whether the user was pregnant. The test became the subject of controversy when it was blamed for birth defects, and it was withdrawn from the market in the mid-1970s. Litigation in the 1980s ended inconclusively. A review of the matter by the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency in 2014 assessed the studies performed to date and found the evidence for adverse effects to be inconclusive.\nIn 1978 Bayer purchased Miles Laboratories and its subsidiaries Miles Canada and Cutter Laboratories, acquiring along with them a variety of product lines including Alka-Seltzer, Flintstones vitamins and One-A-Day vitamins, and Cutter insect repellent.\n\nAlong with the purchase of Cutter, Bayer acquired Cutter's Factor VIII business. Factor VIII, a clotting agent used to treat hemophilia, was produced, at the time, by processing donated blood. In the , people with hemophilia were found to have higher rates of AIDS, and by 1983 the CDC had identified contaminated blood products as a source of infection. According to the \"New York Times\", this was \"one of the worst drug-related medical disasters in history\". Companies, including Bayer, developed new ways to treat donated blood with heat to decontaminate it, and these new products were introduced early in 1984. In 1997 Bayer and the other three makers of such blood products agreed to pay $660 million to settle cases on behalf of more than 6,000 hemophiliacs infected in United States. But in 2003 documents emerged showing that Cutter had continued to sell unheated blood products in markets outside the US until 1985, including in Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Japan and Argentina, to offload a product they were unable to sell in Europe and the US; they also continued manufacturing the unheated product for several months. Bayer said it did this because some countries were doubtful about the efficacy of the new product.\n\nBayer has been involved in other controversies regarding its drug products. In the late 1990s it introduced a statin drug, Baycol (cerivastatin), but after 52 deaths were attributed to it, Bayer discontinued it in 2001. The side effect was rhabdomyolysis, causing renal failure, which occurred with a tenfold greater frequency in patients treated with Baycol in comparison to those prescribed alternate medications of the statin class. Trasylol (aprotinin), used to control bleeding during major surgery, was withdrawn from the market worldwide in 2007 when reports of increased mortality emerged; it was later re-introduced in Europe but not in the US.\n\nIn 2014 pharmaceutical products contributed €12.05 billion of Bayer's €40.15 billion in gross revenue. Top-selling products included:\n\n\nBayer produces various fungicides, herbicides, insecticides, and some crop varieties.\n\n\nIn 1994 Bayer AG purchased Sterling Winthrop's over-the-counter (OTC) drug business from SmithKline Beecham and merged it with Miles Laboratories, thereby reclaiming the U.S. and Canadian trademark rights to \"Bayer\" and the Bayer cross, as well as the ownership of the Aspirin trademark in Canada.\n\nIn 2004 acquired the over-the-counter Pharmaceutical Division of Roche Pharmaceuticals. In March 2008 Bayer HealthCare announced an agreement to acquire the portfolio and OTC division of privately owned Sagmel, Inc., a US-based company that markets OTC medications in most of the Commonwealth of Independent States countries such as Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Belarus, and others. On 28 August 2008 an explosion occurred at the Bayer CropScience facility at Institute, West Virginia, United States. A runaway reaction ruptured a tank and the resulting explosion killed two employees. The ruptured tank was close to a methyl isocyanate tank which was undamaged by the explosion.\n\nIn March 2006 Merck KGaA announced a €14.6bn bid for Schering AG, founded in 1851. By 2006 Schering had annual gross revenue of around €5 billion and employed about 26,000 people in 140 subsidiaries worldwide. Bayer responded with a white knight bid and in July acquired the majority of shares of Schering for €14.6bn, and in 2007 Bayer took over Schering AG and formed Bayer Schering Pharma. The acquisition of Schering was the largest take-over in Bayer's history, and as of 2015 was one of the ten biggest pharma mergers of all time.\n\nIn November 2010 Bayer AG signed an agreement to buy Auckland-based animal health company Bomac Group. Bayer partnered on the development of the radiotherapeutic Xofigo with Algeta, and in 2014 moved to acquire the company for about $2.9 billion. In 2014 Bayer agreed to buy Merck's consumer health business for $14.2 billion which would provide Bayer control with brands such as Claritin, Coppertone and Dr. Scholl's. Bayer would attain second place globally in nonprescription drugs. In June 2015 Bayer agreed to sell its diabetic care business to Panasonic Healthcare Holdings for a fee of $1.02 billion.\n\nIn September 2015 Bayer spun out its $12.3 billion materials science division into a separate, publicly traded company called Covestro in which it retained about a 70% interest. Bayer spun out the division because it had relatively low profit margins compared to its life science divisions (10.2%, compared with 24.9% for the agriculture business and 27.5% for healthcare) and because the business required high levels of investment to maintain its growth, and to more clearly focus its efforts and identity in the life sciences. Covestro shares were first offered on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in October 2015. Effective January 2016 following the spinout of Covestro, Bayer rebranded itself as a life sciences company, and restructured into three divisions and one business unit: Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Health, Crop Science, and Animal Health.\n\nIn May 2016 Bayer offered to buy U.S. seeds company Monsanto for $62 billion. Shortly after Bayer's offer, Monsanto rejected the acquisition bid, seeking a higher price. In September 2016 Monsanto agreed to a $66 billion offer by Bayer. In order to receive regulatory approval, Bayer agreed to divest a significant amount of its current agricultural assets to BASF in a series of deals. On 21 March 2018 the deal was approved by the European Union, and it was approved in the United States on 20 May 2018. The sale closed on 7 June 2018. The Monsanto brand was discontinued; its products will be marketed under the Bayer name. In August 2018, two months after acquiring Monsanto, a U.S. jury ordered Monsanto to pay $289 million to a school groundskeeper who claimed his Non-Hodgkins lymphoma was caused by regularly using Roundup, a glyphosate-based herbicide produced by Monsanto. Following the verdict Bayer's share price dropped by around 14% or $14 Billion.\nThe company filed an appeal on 18 September 2018. It faces 8,700 similar lawsuits alleging Roundup caused cancer. The general consensus among national regulatory agencies, the World Health Organization, and the European Commission is that labeled usage of the herbicide poses no carcinogenic or genotoxic risk to humans.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers, acquisitions and historical predecessors:\n\nIn 2003, to separate operational and strategic managements, Bayer AG was reorganized into a holding company. The group's core businesses were transformed into limited companies, each controlled by Bayer AG. These companies were: Bayer CropScience AG; Bayer HealthCare AG; Bayer MaterialScience AG and Bayer Chemicals AG, and the three service limited companies Bayer Technology Services GmbH, Bayer Business Services GmbH and Bayer Industry Services GmbH & Co. OHG. In 2016, the company began a second restructuring with the aim of allowing it to transition to a life sciences based company. By divesting its Chemicals division in 2004 and with the aim of off-loading its Materials division by mid-2016, Bayer will be left with the four core units, as depicted below.\n\nBayer CropScience has products in crop protection (i.e. pesticides), nonagricultural pest control, seeds and plant biotechnology. In addition to conventional agrochemical business, it is involved in genetic engineering of food. In 2002, Bayer AG acquired Aventis (now part of Sanofi) CropScience and fused it with their own agrochemicals division (Bayer Pflanzenschutz or \"Crop Protection\") to form Bayer CropScience; the Belgian biotech company Plant Genetic Systems became part of Bayer through the Aventis acquisition. Also in 2002, Bayer AG acquired the Dutch seed company Nunhems, which at the time was one of the world's top five seed companies. In 2006, the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced that Bayer CropScience's LibertyLink genetically modified rice had contaminated the U.S. rice supply. Shortly after the public learned of the contamination, the E.U. banned imports of U.S. long-grain rice and the futures price plunged. In April 2010, a Lonoke County, Arkansas jury awarded a dozen farmers $48 million. The case is currently on appeal to the Arkansas Supreme Court. On 1 July 2011 Bayer CropScience agreed to a global settlement for up to $750 million. In September 2014, the firm announced plans to invest $1 billion in the United States between 2013 and 2016. A Bayer spokesperson said that the largest investments will be made to expand the production of its herbicide Liberty. Liberty is an alternative to Monsanto's product, Roundup, which are both used to kill weeds.\n\nBayer CropScience Limited is the Indian subsidiary of Bayer AG. It is listed on the Indian stock exchanges viz. the Bombay Stock Exchange & National Stock Exchange of India and has a market capitalization of $2 billion. Bayer BioScience, headquartered in Hyderabad, India has about 400 employees, and has research, production and an extensive sales network spread across India.\n\nBefore the 2016 restructuring, Bayer HealthCare comprises a further four subdivisions: Bayer Schering Pharma, Bayer Consumer Care, Bayer Animal Health and Bayer Medical Care. As part of the corporate restructuring, Animal Health was moved into its own business unit, leaving the division with the following categories; Allergy, Analgesics, Cardiovascular Risk Prevention, Cough & Cold, Dermatology, Foot Care, Gastrointestinals, Nutritionals and Sun Care.\n\nBayer Consumer Care manages Bayer's OTC medicines portfolio. Key products include analgesics such as Bayer Aspirin and Aleve, food supplements Redoxon and Berocca, and skincare products Bepanthen and Bepanthol. Women's healthcare is an example of a General Medicine business unit. Bayer Pharma produces the birth control pills Yaz and Yasmin. Both pills use a newer type of progestin hormone called drospirenone in combination with estrogen. Yaz is advertised as a treatment for premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) and moderate acne. Other key products include the cancer drug Nexavar, the multiple sclerosis drug betaferon/betaseron and the blood-clotting drug, Kogenate. In May 2014 it was announced that Bayer would buy Merck & Co's consumer health care unit for $14.2 billion. Bayer also controls Dihon Pharmaceutical Group Co., Ltd in China.\n\nThe Pharmaceuticals Division focuses on prescription products, especially for women’s healthcare and cardiology, and also on specialty therapeutics in the areas of oncology, hematology and ophthalmology. The division also comprises the Radiology Business Unit which markets contrast-enhanced diagnostic imaging equipment together with the necessary contrast agents.\n\nIn addition to internal R&D, Bayer has participated in public–private partnerships. One example in the area of non-clinical safety assessment is the InnoMed PredTox program. another is the Innovative Medicines Initiative of EFPIA and the European Commission.\n\nBayer HealthCare's Animal Health Division is the maker of Advantage Multi (imidacloprid + moxidectin) Topical Solution for dogs and cats, Advantage flea control for cats and dogs and K9 Advantix, a flea, tick, and mosquito control product for dogs. Advantage Multi, K9 Advantix and Advantage are trademarks of Bayer. The division specializes in parasite control and prescription pharmaceuticals for dogs, cats, horses, and cattle. North American operation for the Animal Health Division are headquartered in Shawnee, Kansas. Bayer Animal Health is a division of Bayer HealthCare LLC.\n\nBayer Business Services located at the Bayer USA Headquarters in Robinson Township, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Pittsburgh, Bayer Business Services handles the information technology infrastructure and technical support aspect of Bayer USA and Bayer Canada. This is also the headquarters of the North American Service Desk, the central IT Help Desk for all of Bayer USA and Bayer Canada. Bayer Business Services also employs 4500 specialists in India. Bayer Technology Services is engaged in process development and in process and plant engineering, construction and optimization. Currenta offers services for the chemical industry, including utility supply, waste management, infrastructure, safety, security, analytics and vocational training and is a joint venture between Bayer and Lanxess.\n\nBayer Chemicals AG (with the exception of H.C. Starck and Wolff Walsrode) was combined with certain components of the polymers segment to form the new company Lanxess on 1 July 2004; Lanxess was listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in early 2005. Bayer HealthCare's Diagnostics Division was acquired by Siemens Medical Solutions in January 2007.\n\nBayer Diabetes Care managed Bayer's medical devices portfolio. Key products included the blood glucose monitors Contour Next EZ (XT), Contour, Contour USB and Breeze 2 used in the management of diabetes. The diabetes business unit was sold to Panasonic Healthcare Co. for $1.15 billion in June 2015. Bayer MaterialScience was a supplier of high-tech polymers, and developed solutions for a broad range of applications relevant to everyday life. On 18 September 2014, the Board of Directors of Bayer AG announced plans to float the Bayer MaterialScience business on the stock market as a separate entity. On 1 June 2015 Bayer announced that the new company would be named Covestro; Bayer formally spun out Covestro in September 2015.\n\nFor the fiscal year 2017, Bayer reported earnings of EUR€7.3 billion, with an annual revenue of EUR€35 billion, a decrease of 25.1% over the previous fiscal cycle. Bayer's shares traded at over €69 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at US€65.4 billion in November 2018.\n\nIn 1904, the company founded the sports club TuS 04 (\"Turn- und Spielverein der Farbenfabriken vorm. Friedr. Bayer & Co.\"), later SV Bayer 04 (\"Sportvereinigung Bayer 04 Leverkusen\"), finally becoming TSV Bayer 04 Leverkusen (\"Turn- und Sportverein\") in 1984, generally, however, known simply as Bayer 04 Leverkusen. The club is best known for its football team, but has been involved in many other sports, including athletics, fencing, team handball, volleyball, boxing, and basketball. TSV Bayer 04 Leverkusen is one of the largest sports clubs in Germany. The company also supports similar clubs at other company sites, including Dormagen (particularly handball), Wuppertal (particularly volleyball), and Krefeld-Uerdingen (featuring another former Bundesliga football club, SC Bayer 05 Uerdingen, now KFC Uerdingen 05).\n\nIn October 2008 Bayer's Canadian division was named one of \"Canada's Top 100 Employers\" by Mediacorp Canada Inc. The Canadian division was named one of Greater Toronto's Top Employers by the \"Toronto Star\" newspaper. Bayer USA was given a score of 85 (out of 100) in the Human Rights Campaign's 2011 Corporate Equality Index, a measure of gay and lesbian workplace equality.\n\nIn 2016 Standard Ethics Aei gave a rating to Bayer in order to include the company in its Standard Ethics German Index. Bayer received an EE- rating, the fourth tier in an eight-tier ranking.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35538968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35538968", "title": "Bhavnagar Amreli Forest", "text": "Bhavnagar Amreli Forest\n\nBhavnagar Amreli Forest is a reserved area for conservation of Asiatic lions. The new location is east side of Gir National Park in Amreli district of Gujarat. After inclusion of New Jesal sanctuary the area of this forest will go to 1600 km which is bigger than Gir sanctuary. The Gujarat state government insisted on shifting the lions to this forest claiming that lions were pride of Gujarat. However the central government is pressuring Gujarat state government to shift some lions in Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary. There are almost 110 lions outside the protected area in Gir forest. A pride of about 20 lions will be introduce in three different area in this forest. A large number of lions have been wiped out of Tanzania's Serengeti National Park. To prevent this from happing at Gir forest, Gujarat state government has proposed this habitat. \n\nDistribution of Asiatic lions according to 2010 census: \n\nAccording to above table 141 lions live in Bhavnagar and Amreli districts.\n\n"}
{"id": "660333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660333", "title": "Bleach (manga)", "text": "Bleach (manga)\n\n\"Bleach\" was serialized in the Japanese manga magazine \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" from August 2001 to August 2016, with its chapters collected into 74 \"tankōbon\" volumes. The series has spawned a media franchise that includes an anime television series that was produced by Studio Pierrot from 2004 to 2012, two original video animation episodes, four animated feature films, ten stage musicals, and numerous video games, as well as many types of \"Bleach\"-related merchandise. A live-action film adaptation was released in 2018. English-language releases of \"Bleach\" are coordinated by Viz Media, which has released several volumes of the manga each year since 2004, and published chapters of \"Bleach\" in its \"Shonen Jump\" magazine since November 2007. Viz Media secured foreign television and home video distribution rights to the \"Bleach\" anime in 2006. Cartoon Network's Adult Swim began airing dubbed episodes of \"Bleach\" in the United States that Fall, and Hulu later began to stream subtitled versions of the anime a week after each episode aired in Japan. Viz Media has also released each of the \"Bleach\" feature films in English.\n\n\"Bleach\" received the Shogakukan Manga Award for the \"shōnen\" demographic in 2005, and is among the best-selling manga in both Japan and the United States. Despite significant downturns in both the Japanese and English manga markets, \"Bleach\" had continued to perform well commercially, and it has sold more than 90million tankōbon copies in Japan alone. As of 2018, the series had over 120 million tankōbon volumes in print worldwide.\n\nIchigo Kurosaki is a teenager from Karakura Town who can see ghosts, a talent which lets him meet supernatural trespasser Rukia Kuchiki. Rukia is one of the Soul Reapers, soldiers trusted with ushering the souls of the dead from the World of the Living to the —the afterlife realm from which she originates—and with fighting Hollows, monstrous lost souls who can harm both ghosts and humans. When she is severely wounded defending Ichigo from a Hollow she is pursuing, Rukia transfers her powers to Ichigo so that he may fight in her stead while she recovers her strength. Rukia is thereby trapped in an ordinary human body, and must advise Ichigo as he balances the demands of his substitute Soul Reaper duties and attending high school. For aid in hunting the Hollows, the pair ally with a trio of other spiritually empowered teenagers: Ichigo's high school classmate Orihime Inoue, best friend Yasutora \"Chad\" Sado and the Quincy—humans who can fight Hollows—Uryū Ishida.\n\nEventually, Rukia is arrested by her Soul Reaper superiors and sentenced to death for the illegal act of transferring her powers into a human. Ichigo and friends enlist the help of ex-Soul Reaper scientist Kisuke Urahara, who also enables Ichigo to access his own Soul Reaper powers, to enter Soul Society and rescue Rukia. Shortly after the party's arrival in the Soul Society, conflict arises among the captains of 13 Court Squads when the captain of the fifth company, Sōsuke Aizen, is apparently murdered, which caused the Soul Reapers to begin fighting amongst themselves. However, as Ichigo is almost succeeded in rescuing Rukia and Soul Society on the verge of civil war, Aizen reappears and reveals his intention to obtain the —an orb of immense power—that Kisuke planted in Rukia's human vessel by faking his death and arranging Rukia's execution. Aizen is accompanied by his fellow conspirators, Gin Ichimaru and Kaname Tōsen who are the third and ninth company's captain, as they use Hollows to cover their escape into the Hollows' realm, . Afterwards, Ichigo and Rukia reconciled with the Soul Reapers, who view the former as a powerful ally and designate him as an official substitute Soul Reaper.\n\nIchigo soon finds himself and his friends in escalating skirmishes with Aizen's army of humanoid Hollows, the Arrancar, as they are joined by the Vizards—Soul Reapers who were victims of Aizen's experiments in creating Soul Reaper/Hollow hybrids. When one of the Espada—Aizen's 10 most powerful Arrancars—kidnaps Orihime, Ichigo and his allies enter Hueco Mundo to invade Aizen's palace. However, as Ichigo rescues Orihime, Aizen reveals her abduction was a distraction as he launch an attack on Karakura Town to sacrifice the souls of the living to create a key to the Soul King's Palace so he can kill the Soul King who reigns over the Soul Society. When the Vizards join the remaining Soul Reapers to face their mutual enemy, Gin reveals his own agenda of assassinating Aizen. However, the latter then used the Hōgyoku to become a Hollow-like being and overpowered everyone. Ichigo ultimately succeeds in subduing Aizen at the cost of his powers and reverts to a normal human.\n\nMonths later, preparing for life after high school, Ichigo is called back into action when Xcution, a gang of Fullbringers—supernaturally aware humans like Chad—manipulate him and his loved ones in a scheme to siphon his Fullbring abilities. After his Soul Society allies restore his Soul Reaper powers, learning that Xcution's leader Ginjo Kujo was his predecessor and that the substitute Soul Reapers are not fully trusted, Ichigo defeats Ginjo while resolving to continue fighting with the Soul Society.\n\nAfter Ichigo regained his powers, an army of Quincies known as the appear and declare their own war on the Soul Society, after enslaving the Arrancars. The group is led by Yhwach, the ancient progenitor of the Quincies who seeks to kill the Soul King and rid the world from the fear of death. In their first invasion, the Wandenreich killed many Soul Reapers including their head-captain. Uryū joins the Wandenreich as a means to get close to Yhwach, who was responsible for the death of his mother among other Quincies. Later on, Ichigo and his friends aid the Soul Society in fighting the Wandenreich's second invasion, but Yhwach proceeds to slay the Soul King. In the final battle, Yhwach returns to the Soul Society to conquer it, but with the help of Uryū's father, Ichigo and Uryū defeat the Quincy leader.\n\nYears later, Rukia becomes the new captain of the thirteenth company and has a daughter, an apprentice Soul Reaper named Ichika, with her childhood friend Renji Abarai. Meanwhile, Ichigo and Orihime have a son named Kazui, who is also training to become a Soul Reaper.\n\n\"Bleach\" was first conceived from Tite Kubo's desire to draw a Shinigami (Soul Reaper) in a kimono, which formed the basis for the design of the Soul Reapers in the series. At first, Kubo thought that the Soul Reapers should use guns, so the first title for the series was \"Snipe\" (as in \"sniper\"); however, this was changed with the inclusion of swords. After that, the series was meant to be named \"Black\" due to the color of the Soul Reapers' clothes, but Kubo thought the title was too generic. He later tried the name of \"White,\" but came to like \"Bleach\" more for its association with the color white and that he did not find it too obvious. The original story concept was submitted to \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" shortly after the cancellation of Kubo's previous manga, \"Zombiepowder\", but was at first rejected. Manga artist Akira Toriyama saw the story and wrote a letter of encouragement to Kubo. \"Bleach\" was accepted for publication a short time later in 2001, and was initially intended to be a shorter series, with a maximum serialization length of five years. Early plans for the story did not include the hierarchical structure of the Soul Society, but did include some characters and elements that were not introduced into the plot until the Arrancar arc, such as Ichigo's Soul Reaper parentage.\n\nKubo has cited influences for elements of \"Bleach\" ranging from other manga series to music, foreign language, architecture, and film. He attributed his interest in drawing the supernatural and monsters to Shigeru Mizuki's \"GeGeGe no Kitaro\" and \"Bleach\"s focus on interesting weaponry and battle scenes to Masami Kurumada's \"Saint Seiya\", manga that Kubo enjoyed as a boy. The latter is based on Greek mythology and Kubo also considered it as a source for his focus on myths, monsters and the afterlife. The action style and storytelling found in \"Bleach\" are inspired by cinema, though Kubo has not revealed any specific movie as being an influence for fight scenes. When pressed, he told interviewers that he liked \"Snatch\" but did not use it as a model. \"Bleach\"s fight choreography is instead constructed with the aid of rock music, which the author listens to while imagining the fights in order to give him a sense of pacing for the panel cuts and change of angles through the scenes. Kubo prefers to draw realistic injuries in order to render the fight more impactful, by making the readers feel the pain the characters are feeling. \"Bleach\" fight scenes are often broken up with brief gags, which the author inserts when he grows bored during the illustration process.\n\n\"Bleach\"s plotting process is focused around character design. When writing plotlines or having difficulties generating new material, Kubo begins by thinking of new characters, often \"en masse\", and rereading previous volumes of \"Bleach\". Kubo has said that he likes creating characters that have outward appearances that do not match their true nature—an element that can be found in many \"Bleach\" characters—as he is \"attracted to people with that seeming contradiction\" and finds an \"urge to draw people like that\" when he works. The terminology used in \"Bleach\" has a variety of inspirations, with each category of characters bearing a different linguistic theme. Many of the names for swords and spells used by Soul Reapers were inspired by ancient Japanese literature. Hollows and Arrancars use Spanish terms. Fullbringers use English vocabulary, with names referencing rock music, and finally, both Quincy and Bounts draw on the German language. This multilingual terminology, along with the variety in apparent character ethnicities, emphasizes the international nature of the \"Bleach\" settings.\n\n\"Bleach\"s plot incorporates the traditional Japanese belief of spirits coexisting with humans and their nature, good or evil, depends on the circumstances. An example is Orihime's backstory: she was raised from the age of three by her brother Sora, and prayed for his soul's peace after he died in a car accident. As time went on, she prayed less and Sora became jealous and turned into a Hollow and attacked Orihime. Academic Patrick Drazen says this is a reminder to the audience to not abandon the old ways or risk the spirits taking offense and causing problems in the world. \"Bleach\" also incorporates Shinto themes of purification of \"evil spirits through charms, scrolls, incantations, and other rituals.\" Christopher A. Born regards \"Bleach\" as transmitting Confucian values.\n\nVon Feigenblatt describes \"Bleach\" as being culturally and religiously aware, as it draws upon Christianity and Caribbean Santería. Spanish terms are prevalent throughout the realm of Hueco Mundo, while both Quincy and Bounts have been known to associate with the German language, making Kubo's world of characters diverse in race and language as well. Von Feigenblatt notes that the Quincy \"are clearly inspired by the Roman Catholic Christian Orders of Knighthood such as the Sovereign Military Order of Malta and the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre whose influence is shown in terms of the uniform worn by the Quincy as well as by the symbolism of the cross.\"\n\nThe chapters of the \"Bleach\" manga are written and illustrated by Tite Kubo. In Japan, they were published in Shueisha's \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" from August 20, 2001, to August 22, 2016. The 698 individual chapters of \"Bleach\" were collected in 74 \"tankōbon\" volumes released between January 5, 2002, and November 4, 2016. Shueisha published the first 21 volumes compiled into six omnibus collections under the name \"Resurrected Souls\" to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the \"Bleach\" series. The first collection was released on August 22, 2011; the last collection was published on January 23, 2012. On September 21, 2012, Shueisha released 45 digital volumes in Japanese e-book stores, concluding with the 74th on November 4, 2016. These digital editions have been re-released as a set of 10 volumes on April 26, 2013; the sixth was released on March 14, 2014.\n\nNorth American licensor Viz Media serialized the first chapters in the print magazine \"Shonen Jump\" from its November 2007 to April 2012 issues. The series moved to the digital anthology \"Weekly Shonen Jump Alpha\" in January 2012 and Viz Media released it digitally as Shueisha published new chapters in Japan. The first volume on English was released on June 1, 2004, and the last volume–the 74rd–was released on October 2, 2018. Viz also released a hardcover \"collector's edition\" of the first volume that came with a dust jacket, two box sets, and 24 \"3-in-1 Edition\" volumes between June 7, 2011, and October 2, 2018. Viz Media released digital forms of the first 16 volumes in English on June 17, 2011. As of October 2, 2018, all 74 digital volumes were released.\n\nThe \"Bleach\" anime series aired in Japan on TV Tokyo's Tuesday 6pm timeslot from October 5, 2004, to March 27, 2012, excluding holidays. The series was directed by Noriyuki Abe, and produced by TV Tokyo, Dentsu and Studio Pierrot.\n\nViz Media obtained the foreign television, home video and merchandising rights to the \"Bleach\" anime from TV Tokyo Corporation and Shueisha, on March 15, 2006. Viz Media has later licensed its individual \"Bleach\" merchandising rights to several different companies.\n\n\"Bleach\" premiered in Canada on YTV, as part of their Bionix programming block, on September 8, 2006. Cartoon Network's Adult Swim began airing \"Bleach\" in the United States the following evening. Adult Swim stopped broadcasting new episodes of the English adaptation on October 13, 2007, after airing the first 52 episodes of the series. It was replaced with another Viz Media series, \"Death Note\", to provide Studiopolis more time to dub additional episodes of \"Bleach\". The series resumed on March 2, 2008, but went back on hiatus on November 21, 2009, after the airing of its 167th episode. Adult Swim would continue to air new episodes as part of the revived Toonami block, with the final episode airing on Saturday November 1, 2014, at 12am.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Bleach\" premiered on Anime Central on September 13, 2007, with new episodes airing weekly. In 2013, the Sony Movie Channel began broadcasting Bleach as part of their 'Late Night Anime' block, which runs concurrently with the Animax pay-per-view service, and continues to do so. The English dubbed version of Bleach premiered on Animax Asia on December 18, 2009, with the first 52 episodes.\n\n88 DVD compilations were released by Aniplex in Japan. Viz Media has released 32 DVD compilations of the English adaptation of the anime, along with twenty-one boxsets that contain fourteen seasons of the anime. On July 29, 2009, Aniplex released a \"TV Animation Bleach 5th Anniversary Box\" that includes 15 DVDs and three bonus discs. On November 24, 2010, Aniplex released a special edition of the DVD, \"2004 & 2005 Bleach Jump Anime Tour\", which contains two OVAs—\"Memories in the Rain\" and \"The Sealed Sword Frenzy\".\n\nComposed and produced by Shirō Sagisu, numerous CD soundtracks have been released for the \"Bleach\" anime series and movies by Sony Music Entertainment Japan. \"Bleach Original Soundtrack 1\" was released on May 18, 2005, which contains 25 tracks, including the first opening and ending themes in their original television lengths. \"Bleach Original Soundtrack 2\" followed on August 2, 2006, with an additional 23 instrumental tracks. \"Bleach Original Soundtrack 3\" later followed on November 5, 2008, with 27 instrumental tracks. \"Bleach Original Soundtrack 4\" was released on December 16, 2009, with 30 instrumental tracks. For the 5th anniversary of the series, Aniplex released \"Bleach 5th Anniversary Box\" set which contains CD with rare and unreleased tracks. \"Bleach: Memories of Nobody Original Soundtrack\" was released with 25 tracks from the \"\" film. \"Bleach: The DiamondDust Rebellion Original Soundtrack\" was also released for the \"\" film, with 29 tracks from the movie, followed by \"Bleach: Fade to Black Original Soundtrack\" for the \"\" film, with 29 tracks, followed by \"Bleach: Hell Verse Original Soundtrack\" for the \"\" film, with 21 tracks. Aniplex released \"Bleach The Best\" box set, which contains CD and DVD with 12 of the opening and ending themes from the series in their full length versions and few extras, later followed by \"Bleach The Best Instrumental/Jam-set Groove\", which contains eight instrumental tracks. The separated CD under the label, \"Bleach The Best\" which contains 12 tracks, was released in December 2008. The next release, \"Bleach Best Tunes\", contains 14 more opening and ending themes. \"Bleach The Berry Best\" box set, which contains CD with 13 tracks, bonus DVD and few extras, was released for the 10th anniversary of the series. On April 25, 2012, Aniplex released \"Bleach Best Trax\" box set, which include musical CD, bonus DVD with the complete opening and ending theme videos and few extras.\n\nFive \"Radio DJCD Bleach 'B' Station\" season CD sets, have been released in Japan. Drama CDs have been produced for the series as well, featuring the original voice actors from the anime; these drama CDs have only been included as part of the DVD releases.\n\nThe labels \"Bleach Beat Collections\" and \"Bleach Breathless Collections\" are sets of CDs published by Sony Music featuring recordings by the original Japanese voice actors that provide a look at the personalities of the characters they play, as well as the voice actors themselves. The first CD was released on June 22, 2005; 29 volumes all together were released.Aniplex introduced two \"Bleach\" concept albums. The first, \"Bleach Concept Covers\", was released on December 15, 2010, and the second one, \"Bleach Concept Covers 2\", was released on December 14, 2011.\n\nThere are four animated feature films based on the \"Bleach\" series, all of which are directed by Noriyuki Abe, director of the \"Bleach\" anime series. The films were released annually each December starting in 2006, though none were released in 2009. Each movie features an original plotline along with original characters designed by Tite Kubo, which is contrary to the normal practice for anime-based films, as the original author usually has little creative involvement.\n\nThe first film, \"\", was released in Japan on December 16, 2006, and had a limited release in American theaters in June 2008. The movie is centered around the activities of the \"Dark Ones,\" who were banished from the Soul Society and are subsequently trying to destroy both the Soul Society and the World of the Living. \"Memories of Nobody\" was released in North America on Region 1 DVD by Viz Media on October 14, 2008.\n\nThe second film, \"\", was released to Japanese theaters on December 22, 2007. Its plot focuses on 10th Division captain Tōshirō Hitsugaya's efforts to clear his name after an artifact belonging to Soul Society's king is stolen while under his care. \"The DiamondDust Rebellion\" was released in North America on Region 1 DVD by Viz Media on September 8, 2009.\n\nThe third film, \"\", was released in Japan on December 13, 2008. In the film, members of Soul Society are struck with amnesia, caused by a parasitic Hollow that erases the memories of its victims. The people in those memories forget the victim as well, resulting in everyone losing their memories of Rukia and subsequentially of Ichigo. When he goes to the Soul Society to investigate, Ichigo is hunted as an intruder and the perpetrator of a great disaster and also discovers that Rukia has not only forgotten him, but has forgotten her own identity as well. The film was released on Region 2 DVD on September 30, 2009. The English Dub release of \"Fade to Black\" was released on Region 1 DVD and Blu-ray by Viz Media on November 15, 2011.\n\nThe fourth movie, \"\", was released in Japan on December 4, 2010. In the film, Ichigo is heading into the Gates of Hell, which is where souls and Hollows who had committed evil during their lives as humans are sent. Denizens of Hell, aware of the power of Ichigo's inner Hollow, desire to draw out that power and free themselves from Hell and so they lure Ichigo into the realm by kidnapping his sisters. Tite Kubo did oversee the production of the film. The dubbed version was released on Region 1 DVD and Blu-ray by Viz Media on December 4, 2012.\n\nIn March 2010, Warner Bros. confirmed that it is in talks to create a live-action movie adaptation of the series. Peter Segal and Michael Ewing have been lined up to produce the movie. In 2012, Dan Mazeau was added as a screenwriter for the project, and Masi Oka joined as producer. In 2016, after the series ended, a live-action Japanese adaptation of the series was announced. \"Bleach\", which was produced by Warner Bros. Japan, directed by Shinsuke Sato and starring Sota Fukushi as Ichigo Kurosaki, was released in Japan on July 20, 2018.\n\nBleach has been adapted into a series of rock musicals, jointly produced by Studio Pierrot and Nelke Planning. There have been five musicals produced which covered portions of the Substitute and Soul Society arcs, as well as five additional performances known as \"Live Bankai Shows\" and \"Rock Musical Bleach Shinsei\", which did not follow the \"Bleach\" plotline. The initial performance run of the \"Bleach\" musical was from August 17–28, 2005, at the Space Zero Tokyo center in Shinjuku.\n\nThe musicals are directed by Takuya Hiramitsu, with script adaptation by Naoshi Okumura and music composed by playwright Shoichi Tama. The songs are completely original and not taken from the anime soundtrack. Key actors in the series include Tatsuya Isaka, who plays Ichigo Kurosaki, Miki Satō, who plays Rukia Kuchiki, and Eiji Moriyama, who plays Renji Abarai.\n\nIn 2016, another musical was produced to celebrate \"Bleach\" 15th anniversary. The musical was directed and written by Tsutsumi Yasuyuki with Dream5's Akira Takano and Chihiro Kai as Ichigo Kurosaki and Rukia Kuchiki respectively. The musical debuted on July 28, 2016 in AiiA 2.5 Theater Tokyo.\n\nTwo collectible card games (CCG) based on the \"Bleach\" series have been produced, one in the Japanese market and a different one in North America. \"Bleach Soul Card Battle\", produced by Bandai, was introduced in Japan in 2004. Twenty named sets were released for the series. After \"Bleach Soul Card Battle\", Bandai introduced three more series. \"Bleach The Card Gum\", which contains 14 sets, was released in early September 2007. The next series, \"Bleach Clear Collection\", which contains six sets, was released in July 2008. The last series, \"Bleach Clear Soul Plate\", which consists of three sets, was published in December 2009.\n\n\"Bleach TCG\" was introduced in the United States by Score Entertainment in May 2007, but ceased publication April 2009, just before the planned launch of its seventh expansion, \"Bleach Infiltration\". This cancellation was attributed to the ongoing recession, which has heavily affected TCG sales. Designed by Aik Tongtharadol, the TCG is a two-player game in which each player starts with at least 61 cards: a \"Guardian\" card, a 60-card \"main deck,\" and an optional 20-card \"side deck.\" A player loses if his or her power, as dictated by the Guardian card, is reduced to zero, or if he or she is unable to draw or discard a card from his or her deck. The cards for the game have been released in named sets with each set released in three formats: a 72-card pre-constructed box set containing a starter deck and two booster packs, a 10-card booster pack, and a 12-pack booster box. Six named sets were released.\n\nA number of video games have been created featuring characters from the \"Bleach\" series, primarily though not exclusively fighting games. The first video game to be released from the \"Bleach\" series was \"Bleach: Heat the Soul\", which debuted on March 24, 2005, for the Sony PlayStation Portable. Currently, the majority of the games have only been released in Japan, though Sega has localized the first three Nintendo DS games and the first Wii game for North America. So far, all dedicated \"Bleach\" games released for Sony's consoles have been developed and published by SCEI, whereas the games for Nintendo consoles are developed and published by Sega, and the Nintendo DS games are developed by Treasure Co. Ltd.. Two mobile games had also been released in 2014 and 2016 for the series, which are available for iOS and Android. In 2017, Line announced the release of a game exclusive for their communication app called \"Bleach: Paradise Lost\".\n\nTite Kubo and Makoto Matsubara have co-authored three novelizations of the \"Bleach\" series, which were published by Shueisha under its \"Shounen Jump Books\" label. The first volume, \"Bleach - Letters From The Other Side: The Death and The Strawberry\", was published on December 15, 2004, and re-released as \"Bleach - Letters From The Other Side: The Death and The Strawberry - New Edition\" on November 4, 2009. The second, \"Bleach: The Honey Dish Rhapsody\", was published on November 30, 2006. The third, \"Bleach: The Death Save The Strawberry\", was published on September 4, 2012. Two novelizations of the \"Bleach\" series, have been co-authored by Narita Ryohgo. The first volume, \"Bleach: Spirits Are Forever With You\", and the second, \"Bleach: Spirits Are Forever With You 2\", were published on June 4, 2012. \n\nAfter the series ended in 2016, a series of novels were released by Shueisha. The first novel, \"Bleach: WE DO knot ALWAYS LOVE YOU\", is written by the writer of \"Bleach: The Death Save The Strawberry\" and was published on December 27, 2016. The second, \"Bleach: Can't Fear Your Own World\", is a serialized novel written by the writer of \"Bleach: Spirits Are Forever With You\" series and is released bi-weekly from April 28, 2017. The first volume was released on August 4, 2017 and the second volume was published on November 2, 2018. The novel series ended with the release of the third volume on December 4, 2018.\n\nShueisha published four novelizations based on the \"Bleach\" movies. The first volume, \"Bleach: Memories of Nobody\", was published on December 18, 2006. The second, \"Bleach: The DiamondDust Rebellion, Another Hyōrinmaru\", was published on December 22, 2007. The third, \"Bleach: Fade to Black, I Call Your Name\", was published on December 15, 2008. The fourth volume, \"Bleach: Hell Chapter\", was published on December 6, 2010.\n\nThe first \"Bleach\" artbook, \"All Colour But The Black\", has been released in Japan, the United States, and Europe. The artbook compiles a selection of color spreads from the first 19 volumes of the series, as well as some original art and author commentary. The second artbook, , was released on August 3, 2007. In addition to character guides and articles on other fictional aspects of the series, it compiles the various short comics, , that were published in \"V Jump\". The \"omake\"-style panels are similar to those included in the main series, but reveal more of the daily lives of characters. \"Color Bleach+: Bleach Official Bootleg\" was released in English by Viz Media on August 10, 2010. In December 2018, another artbook will be released, which will contain a massive 700 artworks from the series' 15 years tenure. It will be titled \"Bleach JET\".\n\nSeven databooks have also been released about the series. The first two, \"Bleach: Official Character Book SOULs.\" and \"Bleach: Official Animation Book VIBEs.\", were released on February 3, 2006. \"Bleach: Official Character Book SOULs.\" was later released in English by Viz Media on November 18, 2008. The third book, \"Bleach: Official Character Book 2: MASKED\", was released on August 4, 2010. This book covers details about characters that appear 100 years prior to the story, such as former captains and lieutenants, along with the Arrancars and Visoreds. Although it was released on the same day as volume 46, \"Back From Blind\", the book only covers material up to volume 37, \"Beauty Is So Solitary\". The English version was released by Viz Media on March 6, 2012. A fourth book \"Bleach: Official Invitation Book The Hell Verse\", was published on December 4, 2010. This book was released to promote \"Bleach\" movie:\"Hell Verse\" and it contains character sketches, promotional posters and the one-off Hell manga special. A fifth book \"Bleach: Official Character Book 3: UNMASKED\", was released on June 3, 2011, the same day as the volume 50 of the series. However it only covers material up to volume 48, \"God is Dead\". On June 4, 2012, a sixth book has been released under the name \"Bleach: The Rebooted Souls\". This free booklet has been distributed with \"Bleach\" manga volume 55, with the aim to provide information to readers about upcoming manga's final arc, \"The Thousand-Year Blood War\". The seventh book, \"BLEACH 13 BLADEs.\", was released on August 4, 2015 and focused solely on the Soul Reapers and the 13 Court Squads.\n\nShueisha published a special book \"Bleach: JCCover Postcard Book MAILs.\", which was released on December 4, 2013. It features cover pages as postcards up to volume 60 with poems on the back.\n\n\"Bleach\" has sold over 90million tankobon copies in Japan, and over 120 million tankobon copies worldwide, making it the 6th best-selling series of all time from \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\". In 2005, \"Bleach\" was awarded the Shogakukan Manga Award in the \"shōnen\" category. During 2008, volume 34 of the manga sold 874,153 copies in Japan, becoming the 12th best-seller comics from the year. Volumes 33 and 35 have also ranked 17 and 18, respectively. In total the manga has sold 3,161,825 copies in Japan during 2008, becoming the year's 5th best selling series. In the first half from 2009, \"Bleach\" ranked as the 2nd best-selling manga in Japan, having sold 3.5 million copies. Having sold 927,610 copies, Volume 36 ranked 7th. Volume 37 was 8th with 907,714 sold copies, and volume 38 at 10th with 822,238 copies.\n\nNorth American sales of the manga have also been high, with tankobon volumes having sold over 1.2million copies by 2007. Volume 16 placing in the top 10 graphic novel sales in December 2006 and volume 17 being the best-selling manga volume for the month of February 2007. In a 2010 interview, Gonzalo Ferreyra, Vice President of Sales and Marketing for Viz, listed \"Bleach\" as one of six Viz titles that continue to exceed expectations in spite of the harshening manga market. The English version of the manga was nominated for the \"best manga\" and \"best theme\" awards at the 2006 and 2007 American Anime Awards, but did not win either category.\n\nDeb Aoki from About.com considered the series as the Best Continuing Shōnen Manga of 2007, along with \"Eyeshield 21\", praising the \"compelling stories, dazzling action sequences and great character development\". She also placed the title on her list of \"Top 10 Shōnen Manga Must-Reads\". The artwork and the character designs received positive response by IGN's A.E. Sparrow. He also commented on the series' ability to handle multiple minor character plotlines at the same time, which he considered a point of appeal, in response to fans' claims about a \"lack of a story\" in \"Bleach\". Leroy Douresseaux from ComicBookBin agreed with Sparrow in the number of storylines, but also praised the fighting scenes finding them comparable to the ones of popular films. On the other hand, Mania reviewer Jarred Pine criticized the series as being plagued with stereotypes from the genre. He felt it was a rough start for the series with unimpressive battles, overused gags, and a bad introduction for central character Ichigo that causes him to come across \"as a frowning punk\" whose one good trait is his desire to protect. Despite this, Pine notes that he loves the series, particularly its quirky, lovable characters. Jason Thompson said he was no longer able to take \"Bleach\" seriously after it introduced villains Ulquiorra and Yammy in a scene precisely mirroring Vegeta and Nappa's arrival in \"Dragon Ball Z\", but acknowledged it was likely intended as a deliberate homage. He also said Kubo was able to avoid the worst artistic failings typical in series which indulge in superpowered combat, but that the battle scenes were still sometimes difficult to follow.\n\n"}
{"id": "144186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144186", "title": "Breaking wheel", "text": "Breaking wheel\n\nThe breaking wheel or execution wheel, also known as the Catherine wheel or simply the Wheel, was a torture method used for public execution from antiquity through Middle Ages into the early modern period by breaking a criminal's bones and/or bludgeoning them to death. The practice was abolished in Bavaria in 1813 and in the Electorate of Hesse in 1836: the last known execution by the \"Wheel\" took place in Prussia in 1841. In the Holy Roman Empire, it was a \"mirror punishment\" for highwaymen and street thieves but was also set out in the \"Sachsenspiegel\" for murder and arson.\n\nThose convicted as murderers and/or robbers to be executed by \"the Wheel\", sometimes termed to be \"Wheeled\" or \"broken by the Wheel\", would be taken to a public stage scaffold site and tied to the floor. The execution Wheel was typically a large wooden spoked wheel, the same as was used on wooden transport carts and carriages (often with iron rim), sometimes purposely modified with a rectangular iron thrust attached and extending blade-like from part of the rim. The primary goal of the first act was the agonizing mutilation of the body, not death. Therefore, the most common form would start with breaking the leg bones. To this end, the executioner dropped the execution Wheel on the shinbones of the convicted person and then worked his way up to the arms. Here, rhythm and number of beatings were prescribed in each case, sometimes also the number of spokes on the Wheel. To increase its effect, often sharp-edged timbers were placed under the convict's joints. Later, there were devices in which the convicted person could be \"harnessed\". Although not commonplace, the executioner could be instructed to execute the convicted person at the end of the first act, by aiming for the neck or heart in a \"coup de grace\". Even less often, this occurred immediately from the start (from the head down).\n\nIn the second act, the body was braided into another wooden spoked wheel, which was possible through the broken limbs, or tied to the wheel. The wheel was then erected on a mast or pole, like a crucifixion. After this, the executioner was permitted to decapitate or garrotte the convicted if need be. Alternatively, fire was kindled under the Wheel, or the \"Wheeled\" convict was simply thrown into a fire. Occasionally, a small gallows was set up on the Wheel, for example, if the guilty verdict in addition to murder was by theft.\n\nSince the body remained on the Wheel after execution, left to scavenging animals, birds and decay, this form of punishment, like the ancient crucifixion, had a sacral function beyond death: According to the belief at that time, this would hinder transition from death to resurrection.\n\nIf the convict fell from the Wheel still alive or the execution failed in some other way, it was interpreted as God's intervention. There exist votive images of saved victims of the Wheel, and there is literature on how best to treat such sustained injuries.\n\nThe survival time after being \"wheeled\" or \"broken\" could be extensive. Accounts exist of a 14th-century murderer who remained conscious for three days after undergoing the punishment. In 1348, during the time of the Black Death, a Jewish man named Bona Dies underwent the punishment. The authorities stated he remained conscious for four days and nights afterwards. In 1581, the possibly fictitious German serial killer Christman Genipperteinga remained conscious for nine days on the breaking wheel before expiring, having been deliberately kept alive with \"strong drink\".\n\nAlternatively, the condemned were spreadeagled and broken on a saltire, a cross consisting of two wooden beams nailed in an \"X\" shape, after which the victim's mangled body might be displayed on the wheel.\n\nPieter Spierenburg mentions a reference in sixth-century author Gregory of Tours as a possible origin for the punishment of breaking someone on the wheel. In Gregory's time, a criminal could be placed in a deep track, and then a heavily laden wagon was driven over him. Thus, the latter practice could be seen as a symbolic re-enactment of the previous penalty in which people were literally driven over by a wagon.\n\nIn France, the condemned were placed on a cartwheel with their limbs stretched out along the spokes over two sturdy wooden beams. The wheel was made to revolve slowly, and a large hammer or an iron bar was then applied to the limb over the gap between the beams, breaking the bones. This process was repeated several times per limb. Sometimes it was \"mercifully\" ordered that the executioner should strike the condemned on the chest and abdomen, blows known as (), which caused fatal injuries. Without those, the broken man could last hours and even days, during which birds could peck at the helpless victim. Eventually, shock and dehydration caused death. In France, a special grace, the \"retentum\", could be granted, by which the condemned was strangled after the second or third blow, or in special cases, even before the breaking began.\n\nIn the Holy Roman Empire, the wheel was punishment reserved primarily for men convicted of aggravated murder (murder committed during another crime, or against a family member). Less severe offenders would be cudgelled \"top down\", with a lethal first blow to the neck. More heinous criminals were punished \"bottom up\", starting with the legs, and sometimes being beaten for hours. The number and sequence of blows was specified in the court's sentence (for example, in 1581, the arch-killer Peter Niers, found guilty of 544 murders was, after two days of extended torture, given 42 strikes with the wheel, and was, at last, quartered alive). Corpses were left for carrion-eaters, and the criminals' heads often placed on a spike.\n\nThe \"Zürcher Blutgerichtsordnung\" (Procedures for the Blood Court in Zurich) dates from the 15th century and contains a detailed description of how the breaking on the wheel shall occur: Firstly, the delinquent is placed belly down, bound hands and feet outstretched to a board, and thus dragged by a horse to the place of execution. The wheel is then slammed two times on each arm, one blow above the elbow, the other below. Then, each leg gets the same treatment, above and below the knees. The final ninth blow is given at the middle of the spine, so that it breaks. Then, the broken body is woven onto the wheel (i.e., between the spokes), and the wheel is then hammered onto a pole, which is then fastened upright in its other end in the ground. The criminal is then to be left dying \"afloat\" on the wheel, and be left to rot.\n\nOn 1 October 1786 in the County of Tecklenburg, Heinrich Dolle was to be executed by being broken on the wheel, on account of the aggravated murder of a Jew. The court had decided that Dolle should be broken \"von oben herab\": the first stroke of the wheel should crush his chest (traditionally thought to kill him instantly). The court instructed the executioner, Essmeyer, that Dolle should be clandestinely strangled (by garrotte) prior to the first stroke. The bystanders were shocked by what they thought was a severely botched execution by Essmeyer and his son, and thought Dolle had been alive during the entire proceeding, and also after Essmeyer had secured Dolle onto the wheel, and raised it on a pole. The town physician climbed up on a ladder (the Essmeyers had gone by then), and could ascertain that Dolle was indeed alive; he died six hours later.\n\nThe Essmeyers were taken to court for severe malpractice. It was established that the string around Dolle's neck had not been drawn tightly enough, and that Essmeyer had, contrary to his duties as an executioner, accepted the use of a wheel that was not heavy enough. That lacking weight meant that the chest had not been crushed. Furthermore, one arm and one leg of Dolle's had not broken according to proper penal procedure. And finally, the nail that was customarily hammered through the convict's brain in order to fasten him upon the wheel had been hammered in far too low.\nMany believed that Essmeyer's act of malpractice had been not so much a display of gross incompetence as it had been a deliberate act of cruelty because Dolle, just prior to his execution, had converted from Catholicism to that of the Reformed Church (the executioner Essmeyer was a devout Catholic). The court did not find sufficient evidence for deliberate malice on Essmeyer's part, but sentenced him to two years' hard labour and banned him from ever working again as an executioner. His young son was, on grounds of mercy, acquitted of any culpable wrongdoings.\n\nA long struggle between the Sikh community and Islamic rulers resulted in execution of Sikhs. In 1746, Bhai Subeg Singh and Bhai Shahbaz Singh were executed on rotating wheels.\n\nIn Scotland, a servant named Robert Weir was broken on the wheel at Edinburgh in 1603 or 1604 (sources disagree). This punishment had been used infrequently there. The crime had been the murder of John Kincaid, Lord of Warriston, on behalf of his wife, Jean Kincaid. Weir was secured to a cart wheel and was struck and broken with the coulter of a plough. Lady Warriston was later beheaded.\n\nThis method of execution was used in 18th-century North America following slave revolts. It was once used in New York after several British citizens were killed during a slave rebellion in 1712. Between 1730 and 1754, 11 slaves in French-controlled Louisiana, who had revolted against their masters, were killed on the wheel.\n\nAt the end of the Revolt of Horea, Cloșca and Crișan, in 1785 (in the Austrian Principality of Transylvania (1711–1867)), two of the revolt leaders, Horea and Cloșca, were sentenced to be executed by the breaking wheel. Crișan hanged himself in prison before that sentence could be carried out. According to a book published the same year by Adam F. Geisler, the two leaders were broken \"von unten auf\", from bottom up, meaning the lower limbs were broken before the upper limbs, prolonging the torture.\n\nThe breaking wheel was frequently used in the Great Northern War in the early 1700s when the Tsardom of Russia challenged the supremacy of the Swedish Empire in northern Central Europe and Eastern Europe.\n\nJohann Patkul was a Livonian gentleman who was condemned on charges of treason by Swedish king Charles XII in 1707. The priest Lorentz Hagen was a friend of Patkul's and described the horrors his friend had to endure when Patkul was condemned to be broken on the wheel:\n\nThe breaking wheel was used as a form of execution in Germany as recently as the early 19th century. Its use as a method of execution was not fully abolished in Bavaria until 1813, and still in use until 1836 in Hesse-Kassel. In Prussia, the punishment of death was inflicted by decapitation with a large sword, by burning, and by breaking on the wheel. At the time, the Prussian penal code required a criminal to be broken upon the wheel when a particularly heinous crime had been committed. The king always issued an order to the executioner to strangle the criminal (which was done by a small cord not easily seen) before his limbs were broken. The last execution by this stronger form of capital punishment, of Rudolf Kühnapfel, was on 13 August 1841.\n\nSince victims' bodies of the breaking wheel were often left exposed to environmental influences over a long period of time, so hardly any archaeological features for the \"breaking wheel\" exist; as a deterrence, the bodies were often left on public display over many years, exposed to wind and weather, birds and other scavenging animals could also take away the remains and bones. In the German-speaking areas, only one archaeological discovery of a breaking wheel victim has been documented so far: In autumn 2013, the skeleton of a man was found in Groß Pankow, Germany, the sensational find was discovered during the laying of Federal Highway 189 (\"Bundesstraße 189\") between Perleberg and Pritzwalk in Brandenburg, whose position and signs of injury indicate death by the \"breaking wheel\". Based on an iron belt buckle, the skeleton was dated to the 15th to 17th centuries, the identity of the man is unknown. A similar archaeological find has since also been discovered in 2014, in Pöls-Oberkurzheim, Styria, Austria.\n\nThe breaking wheel was also known as a great dishonor, and appeared in several expressions as such. In Dutch, there is the expression \"opgroeien voor galg en rad\", \"to grow up for the gallows and wheel,\" meaning to be destined to come to no good. It is also mentioned in the Chilean expression \"morir en la rueda\", \"to die on the wheel,\" meaning to keep silent about something. The Dutch expression \"ik ben geradbraakt\", literally \"I have been broken on the wheel\", is used to describe physical exhaustion and pain, like the German expression \"sich gerädert fühlen\", \"to feel wheeled,\" and the Danish expression \"radbrækket\" refer almost exclusively to physical exhaustion and great discomfort.\n\nIn Finnish \"teilata\", \"to execute by the wheel,\" refers to forceful and violent critique or rejection of performance, ideas or innovations. The German verb \"radebrechen\" (\"to break on the wheel\") can refer to speaking incorrectly, for example with a strong foreign accent or with a great deal of foreign vocabulary. Similarly, the Norwegian \"radbrekke\" can be applied to art and language, and refers to use which is seen as despoiling tradition and courtesy, with connotations of willful ignorance or malice. In Swedish, \"rådbråka\" can be used in the same sense as the English idiom \"rack one's brain\" or, as in German, to mangle language.\n\nThe word , meaning a debauched or lecherous person, is French, and its original meaning was \"broken on the wheel.\" As execution by breaking on the wheel in France and some other countries was reserved for crimes of particular atrocity, \"roué\" came by a natural process to be understood to mean a man morally worse than a \"gallows-bird,\" a criminal who only deserved hanging for common crimes. He was also a leader in wickedness, since the chief of a gang of brigands (for instance) would be broken on the wheel, while his obscure followers were merely hanged. Philip, Duke of Orléans, who was regent of France from 1715 to 1723, gave the term the sense of impious and callous debauchee, which it has borne since his time, by habitually applying it to the very bad male company who amused his privacy and his leisure. The \"locus classicus\" for the origin of this use of the epithet is in the Memoirs of Saint-Simon.\n\nAnother french expression is \"rouer de coups\", which means giving a severe beating to someone.\n\nIn English, the quotation \"Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?\" from Alexander Pope's \"Epistle to Dr Arbuthnot\" is occasionally seen, referring to putting great effort into achieving something minor or unimportant.\n\nMedieval hagiographies, such as the \"Legenda sanctorum\", record that St. Catherine of Alexandria was executed on one of these devices for refusing to renounce her Christian belief, which thereafter became known as the \"Catherine wheel\", also used as her iconographic attribute. It is said the wheel miraculously broke when she touched it; she was then beheaded. As an attribute it is usually shown broken in a small version beside her, or sometimes as a miniature she holds in her hand; the sword then used is also often shown.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13630647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13630647", "title": "Carin du Rietz", "text": "Carin du Rietz\n\nCarin or Karin (Catharina) du Rietz (1766–1788) was a Swedish woman who became a soldier at the Royal guard in the guise of a man. She was the first woman in the Swedish royal guard. Her story was a well known and discussed event in her time, and later regarded to exemplify the vivacious Gustavian age.\n\nThe daughter of lieutenant Carl du Rietz and Eva Cronhjelm, she was described as a woman with the stunning intelligence of an Amazon, with power and courage, temperament and beauty, and a \"mind of fire\". She grew up in a mansion in Småland.\n\nShe ran away from home three times; the cause was thought to have been the strictness of her parents combined with the \"reading of too many novels\". The first time, she reached Stockholm, where she was discovered and captured by her brothers; the second time she escaped to her doting grandparents on Värmdön. The third time, however, she dressed herself like a man and enlisted in the Royal regiment at court in Stockholm, as the first female ever.\n\nDuring her time as a guard soldier, she preserved her male identity through her \"female cunning\", but as the story goes, she had so many troubles with sexual advances from both women and men that in the end she could see no other solution but to reveal her identity to the king himself before she was discovered in some other way. According to the legend, she stepped forward and fell down before the king one day when he passed a row of soldiers, of which she was one. She then revealed her identity to him.\n\nWhen she did so, the king, Gustav III, was highly amused by her story. He allowed her to marry a librarian at the royal court, Erik Johan Paulin. They were both described as very happy about this. Paulin had a priest-education, and the king gave him the post of vicar in Kungsbacka parish. Carin was related to Charlotte Du Rietz, to whom the monarch had a strong attachment.\n\nDe Rietz died in childbirth shortly after the family moved into their new home; her husband and child died soon after.\n\nDu Rietz was far from the only example of women personating and living as men. The 18 May 1780 an incident was reported in the newspaper as a warning example; \n\"As a great benefit to the maids of the city, death newly discovered a terrible fraud, which, if it becomes an example, would alarm the fair sex, humiliate the clothing of males and make medical examinations necessary for both engagements and weddings.\"\n\nOne of the coachmen of the city of Linköping, Petter Cederlöf, had suddenly taken ill and died within ten hours. The woman taking care of the body then discovered that the man was in fact a woman. It was decided to make it public as a warning. Cederlöf had been hired the spring before after having shown all the necessary papers, amused himself with the maids, and finally proposed and engaged himself with a maid from the city. The fiancee was initially devastated over the death of her dear \"Petter\", but when she was told, it was reported that: \"All her tears have suddenly ceased.\"\n\nMany such stories are told, some of them quite famous; Gustafva Juliana Cederström, (1746-1801) was widely known in the country for having served in several professions as a man, and on the opposite side, there was Lasse-Maja, a man dressing himself as a woman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1067082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1067082", "title": "Cell death", "text": "Cell death\n\nCell death is the event of a biological cell ceasing to carry out its functions. This may be the result of the natural process of old cells dying and being replaced by new ones, or may result from such factors as disease, localized injury, or the death of the organism of which the cells are part. Kinds of cell death include the following:\n\nProgrammed cell death (or PCD) is cell death mediated by an intracellular program. PCD is carried out in a regulated process, which usually confers advantage during an organism's life-cycle. For example, the differentiation of fingers and toes in a developing human embryo occurs because cells between the fingers apoptose; the result is that the digits are separate. PCD serves fundamental functions during both plant and metazoa (multicellular animals) tissue development.\n\nApoptosis or Type I cell-death, and autophagy or Type II cell-death are both forms of programmed cell death, while necrosis is a non-physiological process that occurs as a result of infection or injury. Necrosis is cell death caused by external factors such as trauma or infection, and occurs in several different forms. Recently a form of programmed necrosis, called necroptosis, has been recognized as an alternative form of programmed cell death. It is hypothesized that necroptosis can serve as a cell-death backup to apoptosis when the apoptosis signaling is blocked by endogenous or exogenous factors such as viruses or mutations.\n\nMitotic catastrophe is a mode of cell death that is due to premature or inappropriate entry of cells into mitosis. It is the most common mode of cell death in cancer cells exposed to ionizing radiation and many other anti-cancer treatments.\n\nAutophagy is \"cytoplasmic\", characterized by the formation of large vacuoles that eat away organelles in a specific sequence prior to the destruction of the nucleus.\n\nApoptosis is the process of programmed cell death (PCD) that may occur in multicellular organisms. Biochemical events lead to characteristic cell changes (morphology) and death. These changes include blebbing, cell shrinkage, nuclear fragmentation, chromatin condensation, and chromosomal DNA fragmentation. It is now thought that – in a developmental context – cells are induced to positively commit suicide whilst in a homeostatic context; the absence of certain survival factors may provide the impetus for suicide. There appears to be some variation in the morphology and indeed the biochemistry of these suicide pathways; some treading the path of \"apoptosis\", others following a more generalized pathway to deletion, but both usually being genetically and synthetically motivated. There is some evidence that certain symptoms of \"apoptosis\" such as endonuclease activation can be spuriously induced without engaging a genetic cascade, however, presumably true apoptosis and programmed cell death must be genetically mediated. It is also becoming clear that mitosis and apoptosis are toggled or linked in some way and that the balance achieved depends on signals received from appropriate growth or survival factors.\n\nMacroautophagy, often referred to as autophagy, is a catabolic process that results in the autophagosomic-lysosomal degradation of bulk cytoplasmic contents, abnormal protein aggregates, and excess or damaged organelles. Autophagy is generally activated by conditions of nutrient deprivation but has also been associated with physiological as well as pathological processes such as development, differentiation, neurodegenerative diseases, stress, infection and cancer.\n\nOther pathways of programmed cell death have been discovered.\nCalled \"non-apoptotic programmed cell-death\" (or \"caspase-independent programmed cell-death\" or \"necroptosis\"), these alternative routes to death are as efficient as apoptosis and can function as either backup mechanisms or the main type of PCD.\n\nOther forms of programmed cell death include anoikis, almost identical to apoptosis except in its induction; cornification, a form of cell death exclusive to the eyes; excitotoxicity; ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of cell death and Wallerian degeneration.\n\nPlant cells undergo particular processes of PCD similar to autophagic cell death. However, some common features of PCD are highly conserved in both plants and metazoa.\n\nActivation-induced cell death (AICD) is a programmed cell death caused by the interaction of Fas receptor (Fas, CD95)and Fas ligand (FasL, CD95 ligand). It occurs as a result of repeated stimulation of specific T-cell receptors (TCR) and it helps to maintain the periphery immune tolerance. Therefore, an alteration of the process may lead to autoimmune diseases. In the other words AICD is the negative regulator of activated T-lymphocytes.\n\nIschemic cell death, or oncosis, is a form of accidental, or passive cell death that is often considered a lethal injury. The process is characterized by mitochondrial swelling, cytoplasm vacuolization, and swelling of the nucleus and cytoplasm.\n\nImmunogenic cell death or immunogenic apoptosis is a form of cell death caused by some cytostatic agents such as anthracyclines, oxaliplatin and bortezomib, or radiotherapy and photodynamic therapy (PDT).\n\nPyroptosis is a highly inflammatory form of programmed cell death that occurs most frequently upon infection with intracellular pathogens and is likely to form part of the antimicrobial response in myeloid cells.\n\nThe term \"cell necrobiology\" has been used to describe the life processes associated with morphological, biochemical, and molecular changes which predispose, precede, and accompany cell death, as well as the consequences and tissue response to cell death. The word is derived from the Greek νεκρό meaning \"death\", βìο meaning \"life\", and λόγος meaning \"the study of\". The term was initially coined to broadly define investigations of the changes that accompany cell death, detected and measured by multiparameter flow- and laser scanning- cytometry. It has been used to describe the real-time changes during cell death, detected by flow cytometry \n\n"}
{"id": "31882387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31882387", "title": "Centers for Spiritual Living", "text": "Centers for Spiritual Living\n\nThe Centers for Spiritual Living, or CSL, is a religious denomination promoting Religious Science that was founded by Ernest Holmes in 1926. Before 2011, it was two organizations known as United Centers for Spiritual Living (formally, United Church of Religious Science) and International Centers for Spiritual Living (formally, Religious Science International).\n\nHolmes and his brother Fenwicke learned about New Thought in Boston with Mary Baker Eddy, and later in Los Angeles were drawn to the belief in the power of the mind for healing and fulfillment of life. In 1926, Holmes's major work, \"The Science of Mind\", was published, and in 1927 he founded the Institute of Religious Science and Philosophy in Los Angeles to teach his principles. After a growing number of the Institute's graduates established churches on teachings by Holmes, it was reorganized in 1949 as the Church of Religious Science. In the 1950s it split into two organizations that were originally called the United Church of Religious Science and Religious Science International.\n\nThe International Centers for Spiritual Living and United Centers for Spiritual Living reunited in 2011 after more than 50 years apart. After an eight-year process, the two organizations used a shared leadership model including nearly 400 volunteers. As of 2011, the organization has over 400 churches across North America.\n\nIn 2012 the newly merged Centers for Spiritual Living, elected Dr. Kenn Gordon as its first Spiritual Leader, having served in numerous capacities on the board of directors, including President of the former International Centers for Spiritual Living since 1999. In 2005 he was named Minister of the Year and received his Doctorate of Humanities. Dr. Kenn, along with wife Dr. Deborah Gordon, pastors the Centre for Spiritual Living Kelowna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2297168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2297168", "title": "Chemical oxygen generator", "text": "Chemical oxygen generator\n\nA chemical oxygen generator is a device that releases oxygen via a chemical reaction. The oxygen source is usually an inorganic superoxide, chlorate, or perchlorate; ozonides are a promising group of oxygen sources. The generators are usually ignited by a firing pin, and the chemical reaction is usually exothermic, making the generator a potential fire hazard. Potassium superoxide was used as an oxygen source on early manned missions of the Soviet space program, for firefighters, and for mine rescue.\n\nCommercial aircraft provide emergency oxygen to passengers to protect them from drops in cabin pressure. Chemical oxygen generators are not used for the cockpit crew, who are typically supplied using compressed oxygen canisters also known as oxygen bottles. In narrow body airliners, for each row of seats there are overhead oxygen masks and oxygen generators. In some wide-body airliners, such as the DC-10 and IL-96, the canisters and oxygen masks are mounted in the top portion of the seat backs, since the ceiling is too high above the passengers. If a decompression occurs, the panels are opened either by an automatic pressure switch or by a manual switch, and the masks are released. When the passengers pull down on the mask they remove the retaining pins and trigger the production of oxygen.\n\nThe oxidizer core is sodium chlorate (NaClO), which is mixed with less than 5\npercent barium peroxide (BaO) and less than 1 percent potassium perchlorate (KClO). The explosives in the percussion cap are a lead styphnate and tetrazene explosive mixture. The chemical reaction is exothermic and the exterior temperature of the canister will reach . It will produce oxygen for 12 to 22 minutes. The two-mask generator is approximately in diameter and long. The three-mask generator is approximately in diameter and long.\n\nAccidental activation of improperly shipped expired generators caused the ValuJet Flight 592 crash, killing all on board. An ATA DC-10, Flight 131, was also destroyed while parked at O'Hare Airport, on August 10, 1986. The cause was the accidental activation of an oxygen canister, contained in the back of a broken DC-10 seat, being shipped in the cargo compartment to a repair station. There were no fatalities or injuries because the plane contained no passengers when the fire broke out.\n\nA \"chlorate candle\", or an \"oxygen candle\", is a cylindrical chemical oxygen generator that contains a mix of sodium chlorate and iron powder, which when ignited smolders at about , producing sodium chloride, iron oxide, and at a fixed rate about 6.5 man-hours of oxygen per kilogram of the mixture. The mixture has an indefinite shelf life if stored properly: candles have been stored for 20 years without decreased oxygen output. Thermal decomposition releases the oxygen. The burning iron supplies the heat. The candle must be wrapped in thermal insulation to maintain the reaction temperature and to protect surrounding equipment. The key reaction is:\n\nPotassium and lithium chlorate, and sodium, potassium and lithium perchlorates can also be used in oxygen candles.\n\nAn explosion caused by one of these candles killed two Royal Navy sailors on , a nuclear-powered submarine, under the Arctic on 21 March 2007. The candle had become contaminated with hydraulic oil, which caused the mixture to explode rather than burn.\n\nIn the Vika oxygen generator used on some spacecraft, lithium perchlorate is the source of oxygen. At 400 °C, it releases 60% of its weight as oxygen:\n\nAdvances in technology have provided industrial oxygen generator systems for use where air is available and a higher concentration of oxygen is desired. Pressure swing adsorption (PSA) incorporates a material called molecular sieve for gas separation. In the case of oxygen generation a zeolite-based sieve forces preferential adsorption for nitrogen. Clean, dry air is passed through the sieve beds on the oxygen generator, producing an oxygen-enriched gas. Nitrogen separation membrane equipment is also used.\n\nChemical oxygen generators are used in aircraft, breathing apparatus for firefighters and mine rescue crews, submarines, and everywhere a compact emergency oxygen generator with long shelf life is needed. They usually contain a device for absorption of carbon dioxide, sometimes a filter filled with lithium hydroxide; a kilogram of LiOH absorbs about half a kilogram of CO.\n\n"}
{"id": "56900114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56900114", "title": "Conversable", "text": "Conversable\n\nConversable is a SaaS based Artificial Intelligence (AI) powered conversational platform, headquartered in Austin, Texas. It allows customers to create intelligent, automated response flows through conversations in any messaging channel or voice platforms. It has offices in Austin and Dallas.\n\nSome of companies using Conversable platform includes Budweiser, Wingstop, Pizza Hut, T.G.I. Friday's], Sam’s Club, Shake Shack, CES, Whole Foods and 7-Eleven.\n\nIn 2015, Conversable Inc. was founded by Ben Lamm, founder and CEO of digital creative design studio Chaotic Moon Studios, which was acquired by Accenture, and Andrew Busey, former CEO & co-founder of social game company Challenge Games Inc., which was acquired by Zynga. It received funding of $2 million from angel investors. \n\nIn March 2017, Conversable launched a new product called AQUA (Answer Questions Using AI), which is a business intelligence (BI) platform.\n\nIn 2018, Conversable was acquired by LivePerson to \"help LivePerson continue to accelerate its goal of providing conversational commerce products to customers,\" according to CEO Robert Locascio.\n\nIt helps companies to deliver on-demand content, customer self-service, and conversational commerce via messaging channel and voice applications. \n\nThe company is partnered with Phobio in January, 2018. It is also partnered with Olo, Hinduja Global Solutions, Booz Allen Hamilton, Ernst & Young, Mindtree, WPP and Pactera.\n\n"}
{"id": "56597919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56597919", "title": "Davies Commission Inquiry", "text": "Davies Commission Inquiry\n\nThe Davies Commission Inquiry or Davies Commission Inquiry into the Death of Frank Paul (2007 - 2011) was an inquiry under Commissioner William H. Davies a retired Justice of the Supreme Court of British Columbia (BCSC), Canada. The final report was submitted in May 2011. \n\nDavies, who had served as Supreme Court of British Columbia (BCSC) from 1982 until his retirement in 1999, was called from his retirement to act as Commissioner of the Davies Commission Inquiry in 2007. \n\nThe Inquiry focused on the 1998 death by hypothermia of Frank Paul, a homeless Mi'kmaq man originally from Elsipogtog First Nation, New Brunswick. According to the report, Paul died of hypothermia in an alley in east side Vancouver where he had been released by Vancouver police. \n\nIn his 446-page report, which was published on February 12, 2009, Justice Davies was \"harshly critical\" of the actions of Vancouver Police Department (VPD) in relation to Paul's death.\n\nIn his May 2011 report, \"Alone and Cold: Criminal Justice Branch Response\", he questioned the decision \"on the part of the crown prosecutors to not proceed with criminal charges against Sergeant Sanderson and Constable Instant in the death of Frank Paul.\" Davies \"ruled that the B.C.’s Criminal Justice Branch needed an overhaul to its conflict-of-interest policies that were brought up during the inquiry\" The Inquiry \"resulted in the recommendation to establish the Independent Investigations Office which investigates officer-related incidents of death or serious harm in BC.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25771702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25771702", "title": "Death of Theresa Allore", "text": "Death of Theresa Allore\n\nTheresa Allore was a 19-year-old Canadian college student who disappeared on Friday, November 3, 1978 from Champlain College Lennoxville in the Eastern Townships of Quebec.\n\nTheresa Allore was a 19-year-old Canadian when she disappeared in 1978. Five months later, on April 13, 1979, her body was discovered in a small body of water approximately one kilometer from her dormitory residence in Compton, Quebec. Upon her disappearance police initially suggested she was a runaway. When her body was discovered police then suggested that she was the possible victim of a drug overdose, perhaps with the assistance of fellow college students.\n\nIn the summer of 2002, the family of Theresa Allore enlisted the support of an investigative reporter and friend, Patricia Pearson, who produced a series of articles for Canada's National Post newspaper that presented compelling evidence that Theresa Allore was a victim of murder, and that her death was possibly linked to two other unsolved local cases; the death of 10-year-old Manon Dube in March 1978, and the murder of Louise Camirand in 1977. The theory was supported by geographic profiler and then FBI consultant, Kim Rossmo, who suggested a serial sexual predator may have been operating in the Quebec region in the late 1970s and advised police to investigate the three deaths as a series. Rossmo later gained notoriety when, in 1998, he suggested that Vancouver police create a serial killer task force to investigate the multiple cases of missing women from Vancouver's downtown Eastside. Robert Pickton was eventually arrested and found guilty of six murders, though he was accused of, and implicated in, an additional 26 murders of Vancouver missing women.\n\nThe deaths of Theresa Allore, Manon Dubé, and Louise Camirand remain unsolved cold-cases.\n\nSince 2002, John Allore - who maintains the website, Who Killed Theresa?, and hosts the podcast of the same name - has continued the investigation. Allore has geographically identified 14 other unsolved murders from 1975 to 1981 which may be associated. The related cases are: Sharron Prior, Lise Choquette, Louise Camirand, Jocelyne Houle, Chantal Tremblay, Johanne Dorion, Hélène Monast, Katherine Hawkes, Denise Bazinet, Manon Dubé, Lison Blais, Nicole Gaudreaux, Tammy Leakey, and Johanne Lemieux.\n\nFor years John Allore lobbied for the creation of a Surete du Quebec cold case unit. In 2004 the squad was created, with a mandate to solve over 600 cases under its jurisdiction. The first case added was Helene Monast In 2018 the Surete du Quebec added 25 officers to the unit, significantly increasing its capacity. By the spring of 2018 all the major cases referenced by John Allore that were under the Surete du Quebec's jurisdiction - Louise Camirand, Chantal Tremblay, Helene Monast, Denise Bazinet, Manon Dubé and Theresa Allore - had been added to the Surete du Quebec's cold case website.\n\nBeginning in 2018, John Allore started to focus on other Quebec cases from the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, cases that further suggest systemic failures in Quebec criminal justice. The related cases are: Alice Pare, Lyette Gibb, Sophie Landry, Chantal Rochon, Valerie Dalpe, Marie Eve Lariviere, Melanie Cabay, Marie Chantale Desjardins, Joleil Campeau, Debbie Buck, Johanne Beardoin, Danielle Laplante, Jolène Riendeau, Carole Dupont, Dinae Thibeault, , Nathalie Boucher, Brigitte Roberge, Guylaine Potvin, Ursula Schulze, Melanie Descamps, Claudette Poirier, Julie Surprenant and Cedrika Provencher.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1379331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1379331", "title": "Earth mysteries", "text": "Earth mysteries\n\nEarth mysteries are a wide range of spiritual, quasi-religious and pseudoscientific ideas focusing on cultural and religious beliefs about the Earth, generally with regard to particular geographical locations of historical significance. Believers in Earth mysteries generally consider certain locations to be \"sacred\", or that certain spiritual \"energies\" may be active at those locations. The term \"alternative archaeology\" has also been used to describe the study of Earth mystery beliefs.\n\nThe study of ley lines originates in the 1920s with Alfred Watkins. The term \"Earth mysteries\" for this field of interest was coined about 1970 in \"The Ley Hunter\" journal, and the associated concepts have been embraced and reinvented by movements such as the New Age Movement and modern paganism during the 1970s to 1980s.\n\nSome New Age believers engage in travel to locations they consider important according to their beliefs; for example, Stonehenge is a popular destination among New Age seekers.\n\nThe concept of Earth mysteries can be traced back to two 17th-century antiquarians: John Aubrey and William Stukeley, who both believed that Stonehenge was associated with the druids. Stukeley mixed together ancient monuments and mythology towards an \"idealized vision\" of nature.\n\n\"Ley lines\" were postulated by Alfred Watkins in 1921 at a presentation at the Woolhope Naturalists' Field Club, later published in \"Early British Trackways\" (1922) and \"The Old Straight Track\" (1925). Watkins formed the \"Old Straight Track Club\" in 1927, which was active until 1935 but became defunct during the World War II period.\n\nA revival of interest in the topic began in the 1960s, now associated with neopagan currents like Wicca, and with ufology. Watkins' Straight Track Club was revived in 1962 by Philip Heselton and others as the Ley Hunters' Club. The new club's journal \"The Ley Hunter\" was issued from 1965 to 1970, subtitled \"the Magazine of Earth Mysteries\".\n\nBritish writer John Ivimy wrote a book in 1975 called \"The Sphinx and the Megaliths\" in which he linked the Egyptian Sphinx to the British Stonehenge and other megalithic structures claiming they were all built by a group of \"elite trained\" people.\n\nThe New Age boom of the 1980s expanded the scope of the \"Earth mysteries\" field beyond the British landscape, and Earth mysteries as a \"New Age invented tradition\" by the 1990s could include the study of ancient sites and landscapes (including archaeology, archaeoastronomy, and ley lines), Chinese geomancy or feng shui, western magical concepts of gematria, and dowsing.\nAn important writer combining these fields during the 1970s to 2000s was John Michell. Michell's book \"The View Over Atlantis\" mixed ley lines with folklore and archeology; these ideas became popularised as \"earth mysteries\". Other 1980s authors on the subject of Earth mysteries include Paul Devereux and Nigel Pennick.\n\nRelated ideas include the \"landscape archaeology\" advocated by German author Kurt Derungs from about 1990, and the wider field of \"Forteana\", a term taken to include paranormal phenomena more generally.\n\nBooks on Earth mysteries first appeared in the 1970s, discussing topics such as ley lines, earth energies, astro-archaeology, sacred landscapes, megalithic monuments, shamanism, paganism, dowsing and folklore.\n\nTimeline of publications:\n\n\nProponents consider the Earth mysteries to be \"sacred\" and \"mythopoeic\" rather than scientific. The ley lines idea has been generally ignored by the academic establishment in the field of archaeology. The work of researchers who support the paranormal aspects of Earth mysteries have been extensively criticized by \"professional debunkers\" such as James Randi, Martin Gardner, and the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal (CSICOP).\n\nThe Earth mysteries movement in Great Britain embraced the term \"ritual landscapes\" that was used in British archaeology starting in the 1980s, with regards to \"sacred\" locations apparently used for mainly ceremonial purposes in the Neolithic and the early Bronze Age; the concept has been both adopted and criticized in the field of academic archaeology. Tourism associated with the Earth mysteries movement in this regard is known as the \"landscape heritage\" segment of the market.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "80646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80646", "title": "Elliott Smith", "text": "Elliott Smith\n\nSteven Paul \"Elliott\" Smith (August 6, 1969 – October 21, 2003) was an American singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist. Smith was born in Omaha, Nebraska, raised primarily in Texas, and lived much of his life in Portland, Oregon, where he first gained popularity. Smith's primary instrument was the guitar, though he was also proficient with piano, clarinet, bass guitar, drums, and harmonica. Smith had a distinctive vocal style, characterized by his \"whispery, spiderweb-thin delivery\", and used multi-tracking to create vocal layers, textures, and harmonies.\n\nAfter playing in the rock band Heatmiser for several years, Smith began his solo career in 1994, with releases on the independent record labels Cavity Search and Kill Rock Stars (KRS). In 1997, he signed a contract with DreamWorks Records, for which he recorded two albums. Smith rose to mainstream prominence when his song \"Miss Misery\"—included in the soundtrack for the film \"Good Will Hunting \"(1997)—was nominated for an Oscar in the Best Original Song category in 1998.\n\nSmith had trouble with alcohol and other drugs throughout his life, while suffering from depression, and these topics often appear in his lyrics. In 2003, aged 34, he died in Los Angeles, California, from two stab wounds to the chest. The autopsy evidence was inconclusive as to whether the wounds were self-inflicted or the result of homicide. At the time of his death, Smith was working on his sixth studio album, \"From a Basement on the Hill\", which was posthumously completed and released in 2004.\n\nSteven Paul Smith was born at the Clarkson Hospital in Omaha, Nebraska, the only child of Gary Smith, a student at the University of Nebraska Medical Center, and Bunny Kay Berryman, an elementary school music teacher. His parents divorced when he was six months old, and Smith moved with his mother to Duncanville, Texas. Smith later had a tattoo of a map of Texas drawn on his upper arm and said: \"I didn't get it because I like Texas, kind of the opposite. But I won't forget about it, although I'm tempted to because I don't like it there.\"\n\nSmith endured a difficult childhood and a troubled relationship with his stepfather Charlie Welch. Smith stated he may have been sexually abused by Welch at a young age, an allegation which Welch has denied. He wrote about this part of his life in \"Some Song\". The name \"Charlie\" also appears in songs \"Flowers for Charlie\" and \"No Confidence Man.\" In a 2004 interview, Jennifer Chiba, Smith's partner at the time of his death, said that Smith's difficult childhood was partly why he needed to sedate himself with drugs as an adult: \"He was remembering traumatic things from his childhood – parts of things. It's not my place to say what.\"\n\nFor much of his childhood, Smith's family was a part of the Community of Christ but began attending services at a local Methodist Church. Smith felt that going to church did little for him, except make him \"really scared of Hell\". In 2001, he said: \"I don't necessarily buy into any officially structured version of spirituality. But I have my own version of it.\"\n\nSmith began playing piano at age nine, and at ten began learning guitar on a small acoustic guitar bought for him by his father. At this age he composed an original piano piece, \"Fantasy\", which won him a prize at an arts festival. Many of the people on his mother's side of the family were non-professional musicians; his grandfather was a Dixieland drummer, and his grandmother sang in a glee club.\n\nAt fourteen, Smith left his mother's home in Texas and moved to Portland, Oregon, to live with his father, who was then working as a psychiatrist. It was around this time that Smith began using drugs, including alcohol, with friends. He also began experimenting with recording for the first time after borrowing a four-track recorder. At high school, Smith played clarinet in the school band and played guitar and piano; he also sang in the bands Stranger Than Fiction and A Murder of Crows, billed as either Steven Smith or \"Johnny Panic\". He graduated from Lincoln High School as a National Merit Scholar.\n\nAfter graduation, Smith began calling himself \"Elliott\", saying that he thought \"Steve\" sounded too much like a \"jock\" name, and that \"Steven\" sounded \"too bookish\". According to friends, he had also used the pseudonym \"Elliott Stillwater-Rotter\" during his time in the band A Murder of Crows. Biographer S. R. Shutt speculates that the name was either inspired by Elliott Avenue, a street that Smith had lived on in Portland, or that it was suggested by his then-girlfriend. A junior high acquaintance of Smith speculates Smith changed his name so as not to be confused with Steve Smith, the drummer of Journey.\n\nSmith graduated from Hampshire College in Amherst, Massachusetts in 1991 with a degree in philosophy and political science. \"Went straight through in four years\", he explained to \"Under the Radar\" in 2003. \"I guess it proved to myself that I could do something I really didn't want to for four years. Except I did like what I was studying. At the time it seemed like, 'This is your one and only chance to go to college and you had just better do it because some day you might wish that you did.' Plus, the whole reason I applied in the first place was because of my girlfriend, and I had gotten accepted already even though we had broken up before the first day.\" After he graduated, he \"worked in a bakery back in Portland with a bachelor's degree in philosophy and legal theory\".\n\nWhile at Hampshire, Smith formed the band Heatmiser with classmate Neil Gust. After Smith graduated from Hampshire, the band added drummer Tony Lash and bassist Brandt Peterson and began performing around Portland in 1992. The group released the albums \"Dead Air\" (1993) and \"Cop and Speeder\" (1994) as well as the \"Yellow No. 5\" EP (1994) on Frontier Records. They were then signed to Virgin Records to release what became their final album, \"Mic City Sons\" (1996).\n\nAround this time, Smith and Gust worked a number of odd jobs around Portland, including installing drywall, spreading gravel, transplanting bamboo trees, and painting the roof of a warehouse with heat reflective paint. The pair were also on unemployment benefits for some time, which they considered an \"artist grant\".\n\nSmith had begun his solo career while still in Heatmiser, and the success of his first two releases created distance and tension with his band. Heatmiser disbanded prior to the release of \"Mic City Sons\", prompting Virgin to put the album out inauspiciously through its independent arm, Caroline Records. A clause in Heatmiser's record contract with Virgin meant that Smith was still bound to it as an individual. The contract was later bought out by DreamWorks prior to the recording of his fourth album, \"XO\".\n\nHis first release, \"Roman Candle\" (1994), came about when Smith's girlfriend at the time convinced him to send a tape of \"the most recent eight songs that [he'd] recorded on borrowed four-tracks and borrowed guitar\" to Cavity Search Records. Owner Christopher Cooper immediately requested to release the entire album of songs, which surprised Smith, as he was expecting only a deal for a seven-inch record.\n\nRegarding the record, Smith said: \"I thought my head would be chopped off immediately when it came out because at the time it was so opposite to the grunge thing that was popular ... The thing is that album was really well received, which was a total shock, and it immediately eclipsed [Heatmiser], unfortunately.\" Smith felt his solo songs were not representative of the music Heatmiser was making: \"The idea of playing [my music] for people didn't occur to me... because at the time it was the Northwest—Mudhoney and Nirvana—and going out to play an acoustic show was like crawling out on a limb and begging for it to be sawed off.\"\n\nOne of Smith's first solo performances was at the now-defunct Umbra Penumbra on September 17, 1994. Only three songs from \"Roman Candle\" were performed, with the majority of the ten-song set being B-sides, Heatmiser tunes and unreleased tracks. Soon after this performance, Smith was asked to open for Mary Lou Lord on a week-long U.S. tour. She later recorded one of his songs, \"I Figured You Out\", which he had discarded for sounding \"too much like the Eagles\".\n\nThe same year, Smith released a split 7\" record with Pete Krebs, contributing the track \"No Confidence Man\" as the single's B-side.\n\nIn 1995, Smith's self-titled album was released on Kill Rock Stars; the record featured a style of recording similar to \"Roman Candle\", but with hints of growth and experimentation. Though the majority of the album was recorded by Smith alone, friend and The Spinanes vocalist Rebecca Gates sang harmony vocals on \"St. Ides Heaven\", and Heatmiser guitarist Neil Gust played guitar on \"Single File\". Several songs made reference to drugs, but Smith explained that he used the theme of drugs as a vehicle for conveying dependence rather than the songs being about drugs specifically. Looking back, Smith felt that the album's pervasive mood gave him \"a reputation for being a really dark, depressed person\" and said that he later made a conscious move toward more diverse moods in his music.\n\nIn 1996, filmmaker Jem Cohen recorded Smith playing acoustic songs for the short film \"Lucky Three: An Elliott Smith Portrait\". Two of these songs would appear on his next album, \"Either/Or\", which was another Kill Rock Stars release. \"Either/Or\" came out in 1997 to favorable reviews. The album found Smith venturing further into full instrumentation, with several songs containing bass guitar, drums, keyboards, and electric guitars, all played by Smith. The album title was derived from the two-volume book of the same name by Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard, whose works generally deal with themes such as existential despair, angst, death, and God.\n\nBy this time, Smith's already-heavy drinking was being compounded with use of antidepressants. At the end of the \"Either/Or\" tour, some of his close friends staged an intervention in Chicago, but it proved ineffective. Shortly after, Smith relocated from Portland to Brooklyn, New York.\n\nIn 1997, Smith was selected by director and fellow Portland resident Gus Van Sant to be a part of the soundtrack to his film, \"Good Will Hunting\". Smith recorded an orchestral version of \"Between the Bars\" with composer Danny Elfman for the movie. Smith also contributed a new song, \"Miss Misery\", and three previously released tracks (\"No Name #3\", from \"Roman Candle\", and \"Angeles\" and \"Say Yes\", from \"Either/Or\"). The film was a commercial and critical success, and Smith was nominated for an Academy Award for \"Miss Misery\". Not eager to step into the limelight, he agreed to perform the song at the ceremony only after the producers informed him that if he was unwilling to perform, they would choose someone else to play it.\n\nOn March 5, 1998, Smith made his network television debut on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" performing \"Miss Misery\" solo on acoustic guitar. A few days later, wearing a white suit, he played an abridged version of the song at the Oscars, accompanied by the house orchestra. James Horner and Will Jennings won the award that night for best song with \"My Heart Will Go On\" (sung by Celine Dion) from the film \"Titanic\". Smith did not voice disappointment about not winning the award.\n\nSmith commented on the surrealism of the Oscars experience: \"That's exactly what it was, surreal... I enjoy performing almost as much as I enjoy making up songs in the first place. But the Oscars was a very strange show, where the set was only one song cut down to less than two minutes, and the audience was a lot of people who didn't come to hear me play. I wouldn't want to live in that world, but it was fun to walk around on the moon for a day.\"\n\nIn 1998, after the success of \"Either/Or\" and \"Miss Misery\", Smith signed to a bigger record label, DreamWorks Records. Around the same time, Smith fell into depression, speaking openly of considering suicide, and on at least one occasion made a serious attempt at ending his own life. While in North Carolina, he became severely intoxicated and ran off a cliff. He landed on a tree, which badly impaled him but broke his fall. When questioned about his suicide attempt, he told an interviewer, \"Yeah, I jumped off a cliff, but let's talk about something else.\"\n\nChristopher Cooper, head of Cavity Search Records (which released \"Roman Candle\"), said about this time in Smith's life, \"I talked him out of thinking that he wanted to kill himself numerous times when he was in Portland. I kept telling him that he was a brilliant man, and that life was worth living, and that people loved him.\" Pete Krebs also agreed: \"In Portland we got the brunt of Elliott's initial depression... Lots of people have stories of their own experiences of staying up with Elliott 'til five in the morning, holding his hand, telling him not to kill himself.\"\n\nSmith's first release for DreamWorks was later that year. Titled \"XO\", it was conceived and developed while Smith wrote it out over the winter of 1997/1998, night after night seated at the bar in Luna Lounge. It was produced by the team of Rob Schnapf and Tom Rothrock. \"XO\" also contained some instrumentation from Los Angeles musicians Joey Waronker and Jon Brion. It contained a more full-sounding, baroque pop sound than any of his previous efforts, with songs featuring a horn section, Chamberlins, elaborate string arrangements, and even a drum loop on the song \"Independence Day\". His familiar double-tracked vocal and acoustic guitar style were still apparent while his somewhat personal lyrical style survived. The album went on to peak at number 104 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and number 123 on the UK Album Charts, while selling 400,000 copies (more than double that of each of his two Kill Rock Stars releases), becoming the best-selling release of his career. Smith's backing band during most of this period was the Portland-based group Quasi, consisting of former bandmate Sam Coomes on bass guitar and Coomes's ex-wife Janet Weiss on drums. Quasi also performed as the opening act at many shows on the tour, with Smith sometimes contributing bass guitar, guitar, or backing vocals. On October 17, 1998, Smith appeared on \"Saturday Night Live\" and performed \"Waltz #2 (XO)\". His backing band for this appearance was John Moen, Jon Brion, Rob Schnapf, and Sam Coomes.\n\nIn response to whether the change to a bigger record label would influence his creative control, Smith said, \"I think despite the fact that sometimes people look at major labels as simply money-making machines, they're actually composed of individuals who are real people, and there's a part of them that needs to feel that part of their job is to put out good music.\" Smith also claimed in another interview that he never read his reviews for fear that they would interfere with his songwriting. It was during this period that Smith appeared on Dutch television in 1998 and provided a candid interview in which he spoke of his assessment of his music career until that point:\n\nYeah, I don't know. I mean, I mostly only know things are different because people ask me different questions, but I don't feel like things are very changed. I mean, I still, I do the same things that I did before … I think about the same things, so … I'm the wrong kind of person to be really big and famous.\n\nAs part of the Dutch television special, Smith played live versions of \"Waltz #2 (XO)\", \"Miss Misery\", and \"I Didn't Understand\"—the latter two songs were performed solely on piano, while the first song was cut short by Smith, as he explained: \"I had to stop it because it's… you know, what's the point of playing a song badly? It'd be better to play it and mean it, than to just walk through it.\"\n\nSmith relocated from Brooklyn to Los Angeles in 1999, taking up residence at a cabin in the Silver Lake section of town, where he would regularly play intimate, acoustic shows at local venues like Silverlake Lounge. He also performed in Toronto in April that year. In the fall, his cover of The Beatles' \"Because\" was featured in the end credits of DreamWorks' Oscar-winning drama \"American Beauty\", and also appeared on the film's soundtrack album.\n\nThe final album Smith completed in his lifetime, \"Figure 8\", was released on April 18, 2000. It featured the return of Rothrock, Schnapf, Brion, and Waronker and was partially recorded at Abbey Road Studios in England, with an obvious Beatles influence in the songwriting and production. The album garnered very favorable reviews, peaking at number 99 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and 37 on the UK Album Charts. The album received praise for its power pop style and complex arrangements, described as creating a \"sweeping kaleidoscope of layered instruments and sonic textures\". However, some reviewers felt that Smith's trademark dark and melancholy songwriting had lost some of its subtlety, with one reviewer likening some of the lyrics to \"the self-pitying complaints of an adolescent venting in his diary\".\n\nAlbum art and promotional pictures from the period showed Smith looking cleaned-up and put-together. An extensive tour in promotion of the record ensued, book-ended by television appearances on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" and the \"Late Show with David Letterman\". However, Smith's condition began to deteriorate as he had become addicted to heroin either towards the end of or just after the \"Figure 8\" tour.\n\nAround the time he began recording his final album, Smith began to display signs of paranoia, often believing that a white van followed him wherever he went. He would have friends drop him off for recording sessions almost a mile away from the studio, and to reach the location, he would trudge through hundreds of yards of brush and cliffs. He started telling people that DreamWorks was out to get him: \"Not long ago my house was broken into, and songs were stolen off my computer which have wound up in the hands of certain people who work at a certain label. I've also been followed around for months at a time. I wouldn't even want to necessarily say it's the people from that label who are following me around, but it was probably them who broke into my house.\" During this period, Smith hardly ate, subsisting primarily on ice cream. He would go without sleeping for several days and then sleep for an entire day.\n\nA follow-up to Smith's 2000 album was originally planned to happen with Rob Schnapf, but their sessions were abandoned. Smith also began distancing himself from manager Margaret Mittleman, who had handled him since the \"Roman Candle\" days. He finally began recording a new album with only himself and Jon Brion as producers sometime during 2001. The pair had recorded a substantial amount of music for the album when Brion confronted Smith about his drug and alcohol abuse. Their friendship promptly ended, and Smith scrapped all of their work until that point. He later said \"There was even a little more than half of a record done before this new one that I just scrapped because of a blown friendship with someone that made me so depressed I didn't want to hear any of those songs. He was just helping me record the songs and stuff, and then the friendship kind of fell apart all of a sudden one day. It just made it kind of awkward being alone in the car listening to the songs.\"\n\nWhen Brion sent a bill for the abandoned sessions to DreamWorks, executives Lenny Waronker and Luke Wood scheduled a meeting with Smith to determine what went wrong with the sessions. The singer complained of intrusion upon his personal life from the label, as well as poor promotion for the \"Figure 8\" album. The talks proved to be fruitless, and soon after, Smith sent a message to the executives, stating that if they did not release him from his contract, he would take his own life. In May 2001, Smith set out to re-record the album, mostly on his own, but with some help from David McConnell of Goldenboy. McConnell told \"Spin\" that, during this time, Smith would smoke over $1,500 worth of heroin and crack per day, would often talk about suicide, and on numerous occasions tried to give himself an overdose. Steven Drozd of The Flaming Lips and Scott McPherson of Sense Field played a few drum tracks, Sam Coomes contributed some bass guitar and backing vocals, but almost every other instrument was recorded by Smith.\n\nSmith's song \"Needle in the Hay\" was included in Wes Anderson's 2001 dark comedy film \"The Royal Tenenbaums\" during a suicide attempt scene. Smith was originally supposed to contribute a cover of The Beatles' \"Hey Jude\" for the film, but when he failed to do so in time, Anderson had to use The Mutato Muzika Orchestra's version of the track instead. Anderson would later say that Smith \"was in a bad state\" at the time.\n\nSmith's live performances during 2001 and 2002 were infrequent, typically in the Pacific Northwest or Los Angeles. A review of his December 20, 2001 show at Portland's Crystal Ballroom expressed concern over his appearance and performance: his hair was uncharacteristically greasy and long, his face was bearded and gaunt, and during his songs he exhibited alarming signs of \"memory-loss and butterfingers\". At another performance in San Francisco that month, the audience began shouting out lyrics when Smith could not remember them.\n\nIn the first of only three concerts performed in 2002, Smith co-headlined Northwestern University's A&O Ball with Wilco on May 2 in Chicago. He was onstage for nearly an hour but failed to complete half of the songs. He claimed that his poor performance was due to his left hand having fallen asleep and told the audience it felt \"like having stuff on your hand and you can't get it off\". Smith's performance was reviewed as \"undoubtedly one of the worst performances ever by a musician\" and an \"excruciating […] nightmare\". A reporter for the online magazine \"Glorious Noise\" wrote, \"It would not surprise me at all if Elliott Smith ends up dead within a year.\"\n\nOn November 25, 2002, Smith was involved in a brawl with the Los Angeles Police Department at a concert where The Flaming Lips and Beck were performing. Smith later said he was defending a man he thought the police were harassing. The officers allegedly beat and arrested him and girlfriend Jennifer Chiba. The two spent the night in jail. Smith's back was injured in the incident, causing him to cancel a number of shows. Wayne Coyne, lead singer of The Flaming Lips and a friend of Smith's, stated concern over Smith's appearance and actions, saying that he \"saw a guy who had lost control of himself. He was needy, he was grumpy, he was everything you wouldn't want in a person. It's not like when you think of Keith Richards being pleasantly blissed out in the corner.\"\n\nSmith had attempted to go to rehab several times, but found that he was unable to relate to the popular treatments for addicts that used a twelve-step program basis for treatment. \"I couldn't do the first step […] I couldn't say what you were supposed to say and mean it.\" In 2002, Smith went to the Neurotransmitter Restoration Center in Beverly Hills to start a course of treatment for his drug addiction. In one of his final interviews, he spoke about the center, \"What they do is an IV treatment where they put a needle in your arm, and you're on a drip bag, but the only thing that's in the drip bag is amino acids and saline solution. I was coming off of a lot of psych meds and other things. I was even on an antipsychotic, although I'm not psychotic.\"\n\nTwo sold-out solo acoustic concerts at Hollywood's Henry Fonda Theater, on January 31 and February 1, 2003, saw Smith attempting to reestablish his credibility as a live performer. Before the show, Smith scrawled \"Kali – The Destroyer\" (the Hindu goddess associated with time and change) in large block letters with permanent ink on his left arm, which was visible to the crowd during the performance. On several songs, he was backed by a stripped-down drum kit played by Robin Peringer (of the band 764-HERO), and on one track, members of opening band Rilo Kiley contributed backing vocals. Smith then played two more live shows in his adopted hometown: three months later at The Derby and once at the \"L.A. Weekly\" Music Awards in June.\n\nAfter his 34th birthday on August 6, 2003, he gave up alcohol, caffeine, red meat, refined sugar and his longtime (sometimes abused) regimen of psychiatric medication. Director Mike Mills had been working with Smith during his final years and described Smith's troubles and apparent recovery: \"I gave the script to him, then he dropped off the face of the earth […] he went through his whole crazy time, but by the time I was done with the film, he was making \"From a Basement on the Hill\" and I was shocked that he was actually making music.\"\n\nWith things improving for Smith after several troubled years, he began experimenting with noise music and worked on his girlfriend Jennifer Chiba's iMac with the intent of learning how to record with computers, noting that it was the only method with which he was still unfamiliar. Smith jokingly labeled his experimental way of recording \"The California Frown\" (a play on the Beach Boys' \"California Sound\"). He said of the songs, \"They're kind of more noisy with the pitch all distorted. Some are more acoustic, but there aren't too many like that. Lately I've just been making up a lot of noise.\"\n\nHe was also in the process of recording songs for the \"Thumbsucker\" soundtrack, including Big Star's \"Thirteen\" and Cat Stevens's \"Trouble\". In August 2003, Suicide Squeeze Records put out a limited-edition vinyl single for \"Pretty (Ugly Before)\", a song that Smith had been playing since the \"Figure 8\" tour.\n\nSmith's final show was at Redfest at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City on September 19, 2003. The final song he played live was \"Long, Long, Long\" by The Beatles.\n\nSmith died on October 21, 2003 at the age of 34 from two stab wounds to the chest. At the time of the stabbing, he was at his Lemoyne Street home in Echo Park, California, where he lived with his girlfriend, Jennifer Chiba. According to Chiba, the two were arguing, and she locked herself in the bathroom to take a shower. Chiba heard him scream and upon opening the door saw Smith standing with a knife in his chest. She pulled the knife out, after which he collapsed and she called 9-1-1 at 12:18 p.m. Smith died in the hospital with the time of death listed as 1:36 p.m.\n\nA possible suicide note, written on a Post-it note, read: \"I'm so sorry—love, Elliott. God forgive me.\" The name \"Elliott\" is misspelled as \"Elliot\" in the coroner's report of the note, but not on the Post-it. While Smith's death was reported as a suicide, the official autopsy report released in December 2003 left open the question of homicide.\n\nAccording to \"Pitchfork\", record producer Larry Crane reported on his Tape Op message board that he had planned to help Smith mix his album in mid-November. Crane wrote, \"I hadn't talked to Elliott in over a year. His girlfriend, Jennifer, called me [last week] and asked if I'd like to come to L.A. and help mix and finish [Smith's album]. I said 'yes, of course', and chatted with Elliott for the first time in ages. It seems surreal that he would call me to finish an album and then a week later kill himself. I talked to Jennifer this morning, who was obviously shattered and in tears, and she said, 'I don't understand, he was so healthy.\n\nThe coroner reported that no traces of illegal substances or alcohol were found in Smith's system at the time of his death but did find prescribed levels of antidepressant, anxiolytic, and ADHD medications, including clonazepam, mirtazapine, atomoxetine, and amphetamine. There were no hesitation wounds, which are typical of suicide by self-infliction. However, the authorities do not seem to be investigating the case further.\n\nShortly after Smith's death, a fan memorial was initiated outside Solutions Audio (4334 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, California), the site at which the cover of the \"Figure 8\" album was shot. Farewell messages to Smith were written on the wall, and flowers, photos, candles, and empty bottles of alcohol mentioned in Smith's songs were left. Since then, the wall has been a regular target for graffiti but is regularly restored by fans.\n\nMemorial concerts were held in several cities in the United States and the United Kingdom. A petition was soon put forth with intent to make part of the Silver Lake area a memorial park in Smith's honor. It received over 10,000 signatures, but no plans to establish the park have been announced. A memorial plaque located inside Smith's former high school, Lincoln High, was hung in July 2006. The plaque has the line \"I'm never gonna know you now, but I'm gonna love you anyhow\" from Smith's song \"Waltz #2 (XO)\".\n\nSince Smith's death, many musical acts have paid him tribute. Songs in tribute to, or about, Smith have been released by Pearl Jam (\"Can't Keep\" on the \"Live at Benaroya Hall\" concert album); Sparta (\"Bombs and Us\"); Third Eye Blind (\"There's No Hurry to Eternity\", originally titled \"Elliott Smith\", on the \"Live from Nowhere Near You, Volume Two: Pacific Northwest\" compilation); Ben Folds (\"Late\" on \"Songs for Silverman\"); Brad Mehldau (\"Sky Turning Grey (for Elliott Smith)\" on \"Highway Rider\"); Rilo Kiley (\"It Just Is\", and \"Ripchord\" from the album \"More Adventurous\"); Rhett Miller (\"The Believer\" on \"The Believer\"); Earlimart (\"Heaven Adores You\" on \"Treble and Tremble\"); Joan As Police Woman (\"We Don't Own It\" on \"Real Life\"); and Pete Yorn (\"Bandstand in the Sky\" on \"Nightcrawler\", a song jointly dedicated to Jeff Buckley). Several tribute albums have also been released since his death, including Christopher O'Riley's \"\".\n\nOn July 30, 2004, Chiba filed a lawsuit against the Smith family for 15% of his earnings (over $1 million), claiming that she and Smith lived as \"husband and wife\", that the singer pledged to take care of her financially for the rest of her life, and that she worked as his manager and agent from around 2000 until his death. A state labor commissioner ruled her claim as manager to be invalid, as she had worked as an \"unlicensed talent agent\" under California's Talent Agencies Act. The case made it to the California appellate court in October 2007, but was defeated 2–1; Chiba could potentially appeal the case to the Supreme Court of California.\n\nIn an October 2013 \"Spin\" magazine article—a reflection at the ten-year anniversary of Smith's death—drummer McPherson stated that Smith was \"a sick man without his medicine\" during the last 31 days of his life, when he was not only sober, but had also given up red meat and sugar. In the same article, Chiba recalls thinking, \"Okay, you're asking a lot of yourself. You're giving up a lot at once.\" Chiba further explained that \"anyone who understands drug abuse knows that you use drugs to hide from your past or sedate yourself from strong, overwhelming feelings. So when you're newly clean and coming off the medications that have been masking all those feelings, that's when you're the most vulnerable.\" Writing for \"Spin\", Liam Gowing also encountered a local musician who stated that Smith had said to him: \"The people who try to intervene, they're good people who genuinely care about you. But they don't know what you're going through. Do what you need to do.\" According to the musician, Smith had adamantly dissuaded him from suicide.\n\n\"From a Basement on the Hill\", almost four years in production, was released on October 19, 2004, by ANTI- Records (a part of Epitaph Records). With Smith's family in control of his estate, they chose to bring in Rob Schnapf and Smith's ex-girlfriend Joanna Bolme to sort through the recordings and mix the album. Although Smith had voiced his desire for it to be a double album or a regular album with a bonus disc, it was not clear whether it would have been possible for him to release it that way had he completed it. As completed by Schnapf and Bolme, it was released as a 15-track single album. Many songs from the sessions (later leaked onto the Internet) were not included, such as \"True Love\", \"Everything's OK\", \"Stickman\", and \"Suicide Machine\" (a reworking of the \"Figure 8\"-era unreleased instrumental \"Tiny Time Machine\"). There has been unconfirmed speculation that Smith's family made the decision not to include some songs on the record due to their lyrical content, although songs such as \"King's Crossing\" that deal with darker subjects did make the album.\n\n\"Elliott Smith and the Big Nothing\", a biography by Benjamin Nugent, was rushed to publication and hit stores shortly after \"From a Basement on the Hill\", barely beyond the first anniversary of the musician's death. Smith's family, as well as Joanna Bolme, Jennifer Chiba, Neil Gust, Sam Coomes, and Janet Weiss, all declined to be interviewed. It contained interviews with Rob Schnapf, David McConnell, and Pete Krebs. The book received mixed reviews, with \"Publishers Weekly\" remarking that while \"Nugent manages to patch together the major beats of Smith's life, he can offer little meaningful insight.\n\nIn 2005, a tribute album, \"A Tribute to Elliott Smith\", was released. It featured various bands performing tributes to Smith.\n\nOn May 8, 2007, a posthumous two-disc compilation album entitled \"New Moon\" was released by Kill Rock Stars. The album contained 24 songs recorded by Smith between 1994 and 1997 during his tenure with the label, songs that were not included on albums, as well as a few early versions and previously released B-sides. In the United States, the album debuted at number 24 on the \"Billboard\" 200, selling about 24,000 copies in its first week. The record received favorable reviews and was Metacritic's 15th best-reviewed album of 2007. A portion of the proceeds from album sales were to go to Outside In, a social service agency for low-income adults and homeless youth in Portland, Oregon.\n\nOn October 25, 2007, a book titled \"Elliott Smith\" was released by Autumn de Wilde, which consists of photographs, handwritten lyrics, and \"revealing talks with Smith's inner circle\". De Wilde was responsible for the \"Figure 8\" sleeve art, making a landmark and de facto Smith memorial of the Solutions Audio mural. A five-song CD featuring previously unreleased live recordings of Smith performing acoustically at Largo in Los Angeles was included in the release.\n\nFollowing the singer's death, the Smith estate licensed his songs for use in a number of film and television projects, such as \"One Tree Hill\", \"The Girl Next Door\", \"Georgia Rule\", and \"Paranoid Park\".\n\nIn a March 2009 interview, Larry Crane said that the estate of Elliott Smith was now \"defunct\" and all rights previously held by the singer are now in the control of \"his parents\". Crane went on to say that his parents own the rights to Smith's high school recordings, some of the Heatmiser material, all solo songs recorded until his 1998 record deal with DreamWorks Records, and \"From a Basement on the Hill\". DreamWorks Records was acquired by Universal Music Group in 2003, and Interscope Records currently \"owns all studio and live recording from Jan 1998 to his passing, except for the songs on \"From a Basement on the Hill\".\"\n\nIn December 2009, Kill Rock Stars announced that it had obtained the rights to re-release \"Roman Candle\" and \"From a Basement on the Hill\", originally released by Cavity Search and ANTI-, respectively. \"Roman Candle\" would be remastered by Larry Crane. Along with the press release, Kill Rock Stars posted a previously unreleased track of Smith's, titled \"Cecilia/Amanda\", as a free download. \"Roman Candle\" and \"From a Basement on the Hill\" were re-released on April 6, 2010, in the US.\n\nA greatest hits compilation titled \"An Introduction to... Elliott Smith\" was released in November 2010 by Domino Records (UK) and Kill Rock Stars (US).\n\nIn August 2013, there was a memorial concert in Portland, Oregon and three other cities. Attending the Portland show were several musicians Smith had performed with, friends, and an appearance by film director Gus Van Sant.\n\nIn 2014, director Paul Thomas Anderson posted a video of the pilot episode for a show called \"The Jon Brion Show\", featuring an acoustic set by Smith including accompaniment by Brion and pianist Brad Mehldau.\n\nOn July 17, 2015, a documentary about Smith's life titled \"Heaven Adores You\" saw a limited theatrical release. The documentary enlisted a number of close friends and family members, as well as hours of audio interviews throughout Smith's short career. The film was directed by Nickolas Rossi and released through Eagle Rock Entertainment. \"Heaven Adores You\" received positive reviews from Consequence of Sound, \"The Guardian\", and \"The Hollywood Reporter\".\n\nSmith respected and was inspired by many artists and styles, including The Beatles, Big Star, The Clash, The Who, Led Zeppelin, The Kinks, Pink Floyd, Rush, Elvis Costello, Oasis, Television, Motown and flamenco records, AC/DC, Hank Williams, and Scorpions, Smith claimed to listen exclusively to selected albums (such as \"The Marble Index\" by Nico) for months. Sean Croghan, a former roommate of Smith's, said that the singer \"listened almost exclusively to slow jams\" in his senior year at college. Smith was also known to gain inspiration from novels, religion, and philosophy. He liked classic literature, especially Samuel Beckett, T. S. Eliot, and Fyodor Dostoyevsky (and other Russian novelists).\n\nSmith mentioned his admiration for Bob Dylan in several interviews, citing him as an early musical influence. He once commented: \"My father taught me how to play 'Don't Think Twice, It's All Right'. I love Dylan's words, but even more than that, I love the fact that he loves words.\" Smith covered Dylan's \"When I Paint My Masterpiece\" several times in concert. Smith has also been compared to folk singer Nick Drake, due to his fingerpicking style and vocals. Darryl Cater of AllMusic called references to \"the definitive folk loner\" Drake \"inevitable\", and Smith's lyrics have been compared to those in Drake's minimalist and haunting final album.\n\nSmith was a dedicated fan of The Beatles (as well as their solo projects), once noting that he had been listening to them frequently since he was about \"four years old\" and also claimed that hearing \"The White Album\" was his original inspiration to become a musician. In 1998, Smith contributed a cover of the Beatles song \"Because\" to the closing credits and soundtrack of the film \"American Beauty\". Although this was the only Beatles song that Smith ever officially released, he is known to have recorded at least two others (\"Revolution\" and \"I'll Be Back\") and played many songs by both the band and the members' solo projects at live concerts.\n\nSmith said that transitions were his favorite part of songs and that he preferred to write broader, more impressionistic music closer to pop rather than folk music. Smith compared his songs to stories or dreams, not purely confessional pieces that people could relate to. When asked about the dark nature of his songwriting and the cult following he was gaining, Smith said he felt it was merely a product of his writing songs that were strongly meaningful to him rather than anything contrived. Larry Crane, Smith's posthumous archivist, has said that he was surprised at the amount of \"recycling of musical ideas\" that he has encountered while cataloging the singer's private tapes: \"I found songs recorded in high school reworked 15 years on. Lyrics became more important to him as he became older, and more time was spent working on them.\"\n\n\n\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "40435056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40435056", "title": "Equation-free modeling", "text": "Equation-free modeling\n\nEquation-free modeling is a method for multiscale computation and computer-aided analysis. It is designed for a class of complicated systems in which one observes evolution at a macroscopic, coarse scale of interest, while accurate models are only given at a finely detailed, microscopic, level of description. The framework empowers one to perform macroscopic computational tasks (over large space-time scales) using only appropriately initialized microscopic simulation on short time and small length scales. The methodology eliminates the derivation of explicit macroscopic evolution equations when these equations conceptually exist but are not available in closed form; hence the term equation-free.\n\nIn a wide range of chemical, physical and biological systems, coherent macroscopic behavior emerges from interactions between microscopic entities themselves (molecules, cells, grains, animals in a population, agents) and with their environment. Sometimes, remarkably, a coarse-scale differential equation model (such as the Navier-Stokes equations for fluid flow, or a reaction-diffusion system) can accurately describe macroscopic behavior. Such macroscale modeling makes use of general principles of conservation (atoms, particles, mass, momentum, energy), and closed into a well-posed system through phenomenological constitutive equations or equations of state. However, one increasingly encounters complex systems that only have known microscopic, fine scale, models. In such cases, although we observe the emergence of coarse-scale, macroscopic behavior, modeling it through explicit closure relations may be impossible or impractical. Non-Newtonian fluid flow, chemotaxis, porous media transport, epidemiology, brain modeling and neuronal systems are some typical examples. Equation-free modeling aims to use such microscale models to predict coarse macroscale emergent phenomena.\n\nPerforming coarse-scale computational tasks directly with fine-scale models is often infeasible: direct simulation over the full space-time domain of interest is often computationally prohibitive. Moreover, modeling tasks, such as numerical bifurcation analysis, are often impossible to perform on the fine-scale model directly: a coarse-scale steady state may not imply a steady state for the fine-scale system, since individual molecules or particles do not stop moving when the gas density or pressure become stationary. Equation-free modeling circumvents such problems by using short bursts of appropriately initialized fine-scale simulation.\n\nDynamic problems invoke the coarse time-stepper. In essence, short bursts of computational experiments with the fine-scale simulator estimate local time derivatives. Given an initial condition for the coarse variables formula_1 at time formula_2, the coarse time-stepper involves four steps:\n\n\nMultiple time steps simulates the system into the macro-future.\nIf the microscale model is stochastic, then an ensemble of microscale simulations may be needed to obtain sufficiently good extrapolation in the time step. Such a coarse time-stepper may be used in many algorithms of traditional continuum numerical analysis, such as numerical bifurcation analysis, optimization, control, and even accelerated coarse-scale simulation.\n\nTraditionally, algebraic formulae determine time derivatives of the coarse model. In our approach, the macroscale derivative is estimated by the inner microscale simulator, in effect performing a closure on demand. A reason for the name \"equation-free\" is by analogy with matrix-free numerical linear algebra; the name emphasizes that macro-level equations are never constructed explicitly in closed form.\n\nThe restriction operator often follows directly from the specific choice of the macroscale variables. For example, when the microscale model evolves an ensemble of many particles, the restriction typically computes the first few moments of the particle distribution (the density, momentum, and energy).\n\nThe lifting operator is usually much more involved. For example, consider a particle model: we need to define a mapping from a few low order moments of the particle distribution to initial conditions for each particle. The assumption that a relation exists that closes in these low order, coarse, moments, implies that the detailed microscale configurations are functionals of the moments (sometimes referred to as slaving ). We assume this relationship is established/emerges on time scales that are fast compared to the overall system evolution (see slow manifold theory and applications ). Unfortunately, the closure (slaving relations) are algebraically unknown (as otherwise the coarse evolution law would be known).\n\nInitializing the unknown microscale modes randomly introduces a lifting error: we rely on the separation of macro and micro time scales to ensure a quick relaxation to functionals of the coarse macrostates (healing). A preparatory step may be required, possibly involving microscale simulations constrained to keep the macrostates fixed. When the system has a unique fixed point for the unknown microscale details conditioned upon the coarse macrostates, a constrained runs algorithm may perform this preparatory step using only the microscale time-stepper.\n\nA toy problem illustrates the basic concepts. For example, consider the differential equation system for two variables formula_12:\nCapital formula_9 denotes the presumed macroscale variable, and lowercase formula_15 the microscale variable. This classification means that we assume a coarse model of the form formula_16 exists, although we do not necessarily know what it is. Arbitrarily define the lifting from any given macrostate formula_9 as formula_18. A simulation using this lifting and the coarse time-stepper is shown in the figure.\nThe solution of the differential equation rapidly moves to the slow manifold formula_19 for any initial data. The coarse time-stepper solution would agree better with the full solution when the 100 factor is increased. The graph shows the lifted solution (blue solid line) formula_20. At times formula_21, the solution is restricted and then lifted again, which here is simply setting formula_22. The slow manifold is shown as a red line. The right plot shows the time derivative of the restricted solution as a function of time (blue curve), as well as the time derivative formula_23 (the coarse time derivative), as observed from a full simulation (red curve).\n\nThe equation-free approach has been applied to many examples. The examples illustrate the various ways to construct and assemble the algorithmic building blocks. Numerical analysis establishes the accuracy and efficiency of this approach. Additional numerical analysis on other methods of this type has also been done.\n\nApplying the equation-free paradigm to a real problem requires considerable care, especially defining the lifting and restriction operators, and the appropriate outer solver.\n\n\nThe recursive projection method enables the computation of bifurcation diagrams using legacy simulation code. It also empowers the coarse time-stepper to perform equation-free bifurcation computations. Consider the coarse time stepper in its effective form\nwhich includes explicit dependence upon one or more parameters formula_25. Bifurcation analysis computes equilibria or periodic orbits, their stability and dependence upon parameter formula_25.\n\nCompute a coarse equilibrium as a fixed point of the coarse time stepper\nIn the equation-free context, the recursive projection method is the outer solver of this equation, and the coarse time-stepper enables this method to be performed using fine scale dynamics.\n\nAdditionally, for problems where the macroscale has continuous symmetries, one can use a template based approach to compute coarse self-similar or travelling wave solutions as fixed points of a coarse time-stepper that also encodes appropriate rescaling and/or shifting of space-time and/or solution.\nFor example, self-similar diffusion solutions may be found as the probability density function of detailed molecular dynamics.\n\nAn alternative to the recursive projection method is to use Newton—Krylov methods.\n\nThe coarse time stepper accelerates simulation over large macroscale times. In the scheme described above, let the large macro-time-step formula_28, and be on the time scale of the slow coarse dynamics. Let the computed formula_29 in terms of the coarse variable, and let the microscale simulation compute formula_30 from a local time simulation with initial condition that the coarse variable formula_31. Then we approximate formula_32 via extrapolating over a gap by\nwhere, for example, simple linear extrapolation would be \nThis scheme is the called coarse projective forward Euler, and is the simplest in the class.\n\nThe formula_35 steps taken before the extrapolation reflect that we must allow the system to settle onto a quasi-equilibrium (from the microscale point of view), so that we can make a reliable extrapolation of the slow dynamics. Then the size of the projective integration step is limited by stability of the slow modes.\n\nHigher order versions of coarse projective integration can be formed, analogous to Adams–Bashforth or Runge–Kutta. Higher order schemes for systems where the microscale noise is still apparent on the macroscale time step are more problematic.\n\nThe spatial analogue of projective integration is the gap-tooth scheme.\nThe idea of the gap-tooth scheme is to perform simulations of small patches of space, the teeth, separated by unsimulated space, the gaps.\nBy appropriately coupling the small patches of simulations we create a large scale, coarse level, simulation of the spatially extended system.\nWhen the microscale simulator is computationally expensive the gap-tooth scheme empowers efficient large scale prediction.\nFurthermore, it does this without us ever having to identify an algebraic closure for a large scale model.\nThe combination of the gap-tooth scheme with coarse projective integration is called patch dynamics.\n\nThe key to the gap-tooth and patch scheme is the coupling of the small patches across unsimulated space.\nSurprisingly, the generic answer is to simply use classic Lagrange interpolation, whether in one dimension or multiple dimensions. This answer is related to the coupling in holistic discretization and theoretical support provided by the theory of slow manifolds.\nThe interpolation provides value or flux boundary conditions as required by the microscale simulator. \nHigh order consistency between the macroscale gap-tooth/patch scheme and the microscale simulation is achieved through high order Lagrange interpolation.\n\nHowever, commonly the microscale is a noisy particle based or agent-based model.\nIn such cases the relevant macroscale variables are averages such as mass and momentum density. \nThen one generally has to form averages over a core of each tooth/patch, and apply the coupling condition over a finite action region on the edges of each tooth/patch.\nThe provisional recommendation is to make these regions as big as half the tooth/patch.\nThat is, for efficiency one makes the microscale tooth/patch as small as possible, but limited by the need to fit in action and core regions big enough to form accurate enough averages.\n\nPatch dynamics is the combination of the gap-tooth scheme and coarse projective integration. Just as for normal projective integration, at the start of each burst of microscale simulation, one has to create an initial condition for each patch that is consistent with the local macroscale variables, and the macroscale gradients from neighboring interpolated patches. The same techniques suffice.\n\nAssumptions and choices about the macroscale evolution are crucial in the equation-free scheme. The key assumption is that the variables we choose for the macroscale coupling must effectively close on the chosen macroscale. If the chosen macroscale length is too small then more coarse scale variables may be needed: for example, in fluid dynamics we conventionally close the PDEs for density, momentum and energy; yet in high speed flow especially at lower densities we need to resolve modes of molecular vibration because they have not equilibrated on the time scales of the fluid flow. Qualitatively the same considerations apply to the equation-free approach.\n\nFor many systems appropriate coarse variables are more-or-less known by experience. However, in complex situations there is a need to automatically detect the appropriate coarse variables, and then use them in the macroscale evolution. This needs much more research utilizing techniques from data mining and manifold learning. In some problems it could be that as well as densities, the appropriate coarse variables also need to include spatial correlations, as in the so-called Brownian bugs.\n\nThe macroscale may have to be treated as a stochastic system, but then the errors are likely to be much larger and the closures more uncertain.\n"}
{"id": "30285461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30285461", "title": "Euthanasia and the slippery slope", "text": "Euthanasia and the slippery slope\n\nCritics of euthanasia sometimes claim that legalizing any form of the practice will lead to a slippery slope effect, resulting eventually in non-voluntary or even involuntary euthanasia. The slippery slope argument has been present in the euthanasia debate since at least the 1930s.\n\nLawyer Eugene Volokh argued in his article \"The Mechanism of the Slippery Slope\" that judicial logic could eventually lead to a gradual break in the legal restrictions for euthanasia, while medical oncologist and palliative care specialist Jan Bernheim believes the law can provide safeguards against slippery-slope effects, saying that the grievances of euthanasia opponents are unfounded.\n\nAs applied to the euthanasia debate, the slippery slope argument claims that the acceptance of certain practices, such as physician-assisted suicide or voluntary euthanasia, will invariably lead to the acceptance or practice of concepts which are currently deemed unacceptable, such as non-voluntary or involuntary euthanasia. Thus, it is argued, in order to prevent these undesirable practices from occurring, we need to resist taking the first step.\n\nThere are two basic forms which the argument may take, each of which involves different arguments for and against. The first of these, referred to as the logical version, argues that the acceptance of the initial act, A, logically entails the acceptance of B, where A is acceptable but B is an undesirable action. This version is further refined into two forms based on how A entails B. In the first, it is argued that there \"is no relevant conceptual difference between A and B\" – the premises that underlie the acceptance of A logically entail the acceptance of B. Within the euthanasia debate, van der Burg identifies one of Richard Sherlock's objections to Duff and Campbell as fitting this model. Duff and Campbell had presented an argument for the selective non-treatment of newborns suffering from serious defects. In responding to Duff and Campbell's stance, Sherlock argued that the premises which they employed in order to justify their position would be just as effective, if not more-so, in justifying the non-treatment of older children: \"In short, if there is any justification at all for what Duff and Campbell propose for newborns then there is better justification for a similar policy with respect to children at any age.\"\n\nThe second logical form of the slippery slope argument, referred to as the \"arbitrary line\" version, argues that the acceptance of A will lead to the acceptance of A1, as A1 is not significantly different from A. A1 will then lead to A2, A2 to A3, and eventually the process will lead to the unacceptable B. As Glover argues, this version of the argument does not say that there is no significant difference between A and B, but instead argues that it is impossible to justify accepting A while also denying B – drawing a line at any point between the two would be creating an arbitrary cut-off point that would be unjustifiable. Glover provides the example of infanticide (or non-voluntary euthanasia) and severely deformed children:\n\nThe second primary form of the slippery slope argument is that of the \"Empirical\" or \"Psychological\" argument. The empirical version does not rely on a logical connection between A and B, but instead argues that an acceptance of A will, in time, lead to an acceptance of B. The process is not a logical necessity, but one which will be followed through a process of moral change. Enoch describes the application of this form of the argument thus:\n\nGlover, however, notes that this line of argument requires good evidence that this direction will be followed, as not all boundaries are thus pushed.\n\nMore generally, it has been argued that in employing the slippery slope there can be an \"implicit concession\", as it starts from the assumption that the initial practice is acceptable – even though it will lead to unacceptable outcomes in the future. Nevertheless, van der Burg argues that this not a useful concession, as the outcomes are intended to make it clear that the initial practice was not justifiable after all.\n\nCountering the first logical version of the slippery slope argument, it is argued that the different types of euthanasia are sufficiently distinct that it is not \"logically inconsistent\" to support one version while denying the others. It is possible to support, for example, voluntary euthanasia while denying non-voluntary euthanasia, just as it is possible to support both – the distinction comes not from a logical inconsistency, but a choice of principles, such that a focus on euthanasia as personal choice will support voluntary euthanasia but not non-voluntary euthanasia, while a focus on a person's \"best interests\" may allow for the support of both. From a more practical perspective, another option when faced with the logical version of the argument is to simply accept the consequences. This was the response by Duff and Campbell to Sherlock. Rather than arguing that their premises were flawed, they argued that Sherlock was correct: their criteria could also be applied to older children, and thus it should be applied, as it was \"probably the most caring policy generally.\"\n\nIn responding to the \"arbitrary line\" version of the slippery slope argument, it is argued that the stance relies on the \"paradox of the heap\", and that it is possible to draw a line between the acceptable and unacceptable alternatives. Furthermore, in the case of euthanasia, it is possible to draw hard lines between different types of practices. For example, there is a clear distinction between voluntary and non-voluntary euthanasia, such that the arbitrary line approach cannot be applied.\n\nGlover argues that the empirical argument needs to be backed by evidence, as there are situations where we do not seem to push boundaries. Generally, two examples are discussed – Action T4, the Nazi euthanasia program in Germany between 1939 and 1941, and the Groningen Protocol in the Netherlands, which has allowed for non-voluntary euthanasia of severely deformed newborns.\n\nLewis notes that the focus has been on voluntary to non-voluntary euthanasia, rather than physician-assisted suicide to voluntary euthanasia, as there have been no instances of the latter: in jurisdictions where physician-assisted suicide have been legalised, there have been no moves to legalise voluntary euthanasia, while jurisdictions that have legalised voluntary euthanasia also allowed physician-assisted suicide at the same time.\n\nLeo Alexander, in examining the events of the Holocaust during the Nuremberg Trials, stated that the origins of the Nazi programs could be traced back to \"small beginnings\", and presented a slippery slope argument. Others have argued that Action T4 is not an example of the empirical slippery slope, as euthanasia was still a criminal act in Germany during that time, and there is \"no record of the Nazi doctors either killing or assisting in the suicide of a patient who was suffering intolerably from a fatal illness\".\n\nEuthanasia historian Ian Dowbiggin linked the Nazis' Action T4 to the resistance in the West to involuntary euthanasia. He believes that the revulsion inspired by the Nazis led to some of the early advocates of euthanasia in all its forms in the U.S. and U.K. removing non-voluntary euthanasia from their proposed platforms.\n\nNon-voluntary euthanasia is sometimes cited as one of the possible outcomes of the slippery slope argument, in which it is claimed that permitting voluntary euthanasia to occur will lead to the support and legalization of non-voluntary and involuntary euthanasia. Some studies of the Netherlands after the introduction of voluntary euthanasia state that there was no evidence to support this claim while other studies state otherwise.\n\nA study from the \"Jakobovits Center for Medical Ethics\" in Israel argued that a form of non-voluntary euthanasia, the Groningen Protocol, has \"potential to validate the slippery-slope argument against allowing euthanasia in selected populations\". Anesthesiologist William Lanier says that the \"ongoing evolution of euthanasia law in the Netherlands\" is evidence that a slippery slope is \"playing out in real time\". Pediatrician Ola Didrik Saugstad says that while he approves of the withholding of treatment to cause the death of severely ill newborns where the prognosis is poor, he disagrees with the active killing of such newborns. Countering this view, professor of internal medicine Margaret Battin finds that there is a lack of evidence to support slippery slope arguments. Additionally, it is argued that the public nature of the Groningen Protocol decisions, and their evaluation by a prosecutor, prevent a \"slippery slope\" from occurring.\n\nA 1999 study by Jochemsen and Keown from the Dutch Christan Lindeboom Institute published in the peer reviewed \"Journal of Medical Ethics\", argued that euthanasia in the Netherlands is not well-controlled and that there is still a significant percentage of cases of euthanasia practiced illegally. Raanan Gillon, from the Imperial College School of Medicine, University of London commented in 1999 that \"what is shown by the empirical findings is that restrictions on euthanasia that legal controls in the Netherlands were supposed to have implemented are being extensively ignored and from that point of view it is surely justifiable to conclude, as Jochemsen and Keown do conclude, that the practice of euthanasia in the Netherlands is in poor control\". A similar conclusion was presented in 1997 by Herbert Hendin, who argued that the situation in The Netherlands demonstrated a slippery slope in practice, changing the attitudes of doctors over time and moving them from tightly regulated voluntary euthanasia for the terminally ill to the acceptance of euthanasia for people suffering from psychological distress, and from voluntary euthanasia to the acceptance of non-voluntary and potentially involuntary euthanasia.\n\nAn October 2007 study, published in the Journal of Medical Ethics, found that \"rates of assisted dying in Oregon and in the Netherlands showed no evidence of heightened risk for the elderly, women, the uninsured (inapplicable in the Netherlands, where all are insured), people with low educational status, the poor, the physically disabled or chronically ill, minors, people with psychiatric illnesses including depression, or racial or ethnic minorities, compared with background populations. The only group with a heightened risk was people with AIDS.\"\n\nA 2009 review study of euthanasia in the Netherlands concluded that no slippery slope effect has occurred, while another study of the same year found that abuse of the Dutch euthanasia system is rare. In 2010, a study found that there is no evidence that legalizing assisted suicide will lead us down the slippery slope to involuntary euthanasia.\n\nMost critics rely predominantly on Dutch evidence of cases of \"termination of life without an explicit request\" as evidence for the slide from voluntary euthanasia to non-voluntary euthanasia. One commenter wrote that critics who rely on this slippery slope argument often omit two important elements, thereby using flawed logic. First, the argument is only effective against legalization if it is legalization which causes the slippery slope; and secondly, it is only effective if it is used comparatively, to show that the slope is more slippery in the Netherlands than it is in jurisdictions which have not legalized assisted suicide or euthanasia; since these questions have not been addressed by critics, little attention has been paid to available evidence on causation and comparability.\n\nIn the most recent review paper on euthanasia in the Netherlands, namely the 2009 paper entitled \"Two Decades of Research on Euthanasia from the Netherlands. What Have We Learnt and What Questions Remain?\" written by researchers from the Department of Public Health in the Netherlands, it was found that \"public control and transparency of the practice of euthanasia is to a large extent possible\" and that \"[n]o slippery slope seems to have occurred\". The researchers find that the legalization of euthanasia in the Netherlands did not result in a slippery slope for medical end-of-life practices because:\n\n\nIn 2010, 4050 persons died from euthanasia or from assisted suicide on request. According to research done by the Vrije Universiteit (Amsterdam), University Medical Center Utrecht and Statistics Netherlands, and published in \"The Lancet\", this is not more than before the introduction of the \"Termination of Life on Request and Assisted Suicide (Review Procedures) Act\" in 2002. Both in the Netherlands and in Belgium, the number of termination of life without explicit request for terminally ill patients, decreased after the introduction of the legislation about the termination of life. In effect, the legislation did not lead to more cases of euthanasia and assisted suicide on request.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1193522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1193522", "title": "Ferdinand Schiess", "text": "Ferdinand Schiess\n\nChristian Ferdinand Schiess VC (7 April 1856 – 14 December 1884) was a Swiss recipient of the Victoria Cross, the highest and most prestigious award for gallantry in the face of the enemy that can be awarded to British and Commonwealth forces. He died in poverty at just 28.\n\nSchiess was born in Burgdorf, Switzerland on 7 April 1856, and spent time in an orphanage after his parents died. In 1870 he joined the French Army and fought in the Franco-Prussian War. Schiess later served in the Armée de l'Est and thus was interned in his home country when it surrendered there. He went to South Africa in 1877 and volunteered for the last Xhosa War. When the Anglo-Zulu War began the 22-years-old veteran was made a corporal in the Natal Native Contingent of the British Army in South Africa.\n\nOn 22 January 1879, at Rorke's Drift, Natal, Corporal Schiess, in spite of having been wounded in the foot a few days previously, displayed great gallantry when the garrison had retired to the inner line of defence and the Zulus had occupied the wall of mealie bags which had been abandoned. He crept along the wall in order to dislodge one of the enemy and succeeded in killing him and two others before returning to the inner defences.\nIn 1880 he was awarded the Victoria Cross by General Sir Garnet Wolseley for his services at Rorke's Drift. Schiess was the first man serving with a locally raised native unit to receive the Victoria Cross, the \"British-only\" rule being broken under political pressure, also being the first Swiss national to do so.\n\nAfter the volunteer forces were disbanded he failed to find work, even from British authorities. He briefly went to India but eventually returned to South Africa. In 1884, he was found on the streets of Cape Town suffering from exposure and malnutrition. The Royal Navy found him, gave him food, and offered him a passage to England on board the \"Serapis\". He accepted, but became ill during the voyage and died. His remains were buried at sea at approximately .\n\nIt is unknown if there was a portrait of Corporal Schiess. According to some, in Lady Butler's painting \"The Defence of Rorke's Drift\" he is shown lying at left against the mealie bags.\nThe citation for Schiess's Victoria Cross was given as:\n\nHis Victoria Cross is displayed at the National Army Museum.\n\nIn the 1964 film \"Zulu\", Dickie Owen portrays Schiess as a much older soldier than he was during the Battle of Rorke's Drift.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005112", "title": "Fragmentation (reproduction)", "text": "Fragmentation (reproduction)\n\nFragmentation in multicellular organisms is a form of asexual reproduction in which an organism is split into fragments. Each of these fragments develop into matured, fully grown individuals that are identical to their parents\n\nThe splitting may or may not be \"intentional\" – it may or may not occur due to man-made or natural damage by the environment or predators. This kind of organism may develop specific organs or zones that may be shed or easily broken off. If the splitting occurs without the prior preparation of the organism, both fragments must be able to regenerate the complete organism for it to function as reproduction.\n\nFragmentation, also known as splitting, as a method of reproduction is seen in many organisms such as filamentous cyanobacteria, molds, lichens, many plants, and animals such as sponges, acoel flatworms, some annelid worms and sea stars.\n\nMoulds, yeasts and mushrooms, all of which are part of the Fungi kingdom, produce tiny filaments called hyphae. These hyphae obtain food and nutrients from the body of other organisms to grow and fertilize. Then a piece of hyphae breaks off and grows into a new individual and the cycle continues.\n\nMany lichens produce specialized structures that can easily break away and disperse. These structures contain both the hyphae of the mycobiont and the algae(phycobiont) (see soredia and isidia). Larger fragments of the thallus may break away when the lichen dries or due to mechanical disturbances(see the section on reproduction in lichens).\n\nFragmentation is a very common type of vegetative reproduction in plants. Many trees, shrubs, nonwoody perennials, and ferns form clonal colonies by producing new rooted shoots by rhizomes or stolons, which increases the diameter of the colony. If a rooted shoot becomes detached from the colony, then fragmentation has occurred. There are several other mechanisms of natural fragmentation in plants.\n\n\nPeople use fragmentation to artificially propagate many plants via division, layering, cuttings, grafting, micropropagation and storage organs, such as bulbs, corms, tubers and rhizomes.\n\nAnimals like sponges and coral colonies naturally fragment and reproduce. Many species of annelids and flat worms reproduce by this method.\n\nWhen the splitting occurs due to specific developmental changes, the terms architomy, paratomy and budding are used. In architomy the animal splits at a particular point and the two fragments regenerate the missing organs and tissues. The splitting is not preceded by the development of the tissues to be lost. Prior to splitting, the animal may develop furrows at the zone of splitting. The headless fragment has to regenerate a complete head.\n\nIn paratomy, the split occurs perpendicular to the antero-posterior axis and the split is preceded by the \"pregeneration\" of the anterior structures in the posterior portion. The two organisms have their body axis aligned i.e. they develop in a head to tail fashion. Budding can be considered to be similar to paratomy except that the body axes need not be aligned: the new head may grow toward the side or even point backward (e.g. \"Convolutriloba retrogemma\" an acoel flat worm).\n\nMany types of coral colonies can increase in number by fragmentation that occurs naturally or artificially. Within the reef aquarium hobby, enthusiasts regularly fragment corals for a multitude of purposes including shape control; selling to, trading with, or sharing with others; regrowth experiments; and minimizing damage to natural coral reefs. Both hard and soft corals can be fragmented. Genera that have shown to be highly tolerant of fragmentation include \"Acropora\", \"Montipora\", \"Pocillopora\", \"Euphyllia\", and \"Caulastraea\" among many others. Most sea anemones reproduce through fragmentation. There are a variety of methods including longitudinal fission, where the original anemone splits across the middle, forming two equal-sized anemones, and basal laceration, in which small parts of the animal split from the base and form a new anemone.\n\nIn echinoderms, the process is usually known as fissiparity (a term also used infrequently for fission in general). Some species can intentionally reproduce in this manner through autotomy. This method is more common during the larval stages.\n\nAs this process is a form of asexual reproduction, it does not produce genetic diversity in the offspring. Therefore, these are more vulnerable to changing environments.\n\n"}
{"id": "53293522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53293522", "title": "Gaius Calpurnius Aviola", "text": "Gaius Calpurnius Aviola\n\nGaius Calpurnius Aviola was a senator of the Roman Empire. He was \"suffect consul\" in AD 24 with Publius Cornelius Lentulus Scipio as his colleague. Aviola is also recorded as being governor of Asia in 37/38. Aviola has been identified as the father of Manius Acilius Aviola, consul in 54.\n\nBased on Aviola's name, Ronald Syme argues that he was \"presumably an Acilius Aviola adopted by a C. Calpurnius Piso\"; Olli Salomies disagrees, believing the adoptive parent was a \"C. Calpurnius without a cognomen (e.g. a son of C. Calpurnius, curule and plebeian aedile in 23 BC)\". Yet both identify the adoptee as the praetorian legate or governor of Gallia Lugdunensis in AD 21, who suppressed a revolt by the Andecavi in Gaul. Syme notes that \"praetorian governorships tend to proceed to the consulate\", yet this Acilius Aviola vanishes from history soon after; unless he had died prematurely after his governorship, it would make sense that upon being adopted by a Gaius Calpurnius Piso he changed his name and continued his career under it.\n\nIf they are identical, then Aviola is the subject of a tale recorded by Pliny the Elder and Valerius Maximus. Assumed to be dead, his body was set on top of a funeral pyre, which was then lit. Whereupon he is said to have come to life again, but due to the intensity of the flames, Aviola could not be rescued, and burned to death. This must have occurred prior to the death of Tiberius in AD 37, since Valerius Maximus published his work during that emperor's reign.\n"}
{"id": "22611691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22611691", "title": "Giovanni d'Alemagna", "text": "Giovanni d'Alemagna\n\nGiovanni d'Alemagna (ca. 1411 - died 1450) was a German painter, active in Italy, who collaborated with his brother-in-law Antonio Vivarini on various important religious paintings in Venice and Padua.\n\nAlthough it is difficult to distinguish the two artists' contributions, Giovanni is associated with the St Jerome (1444), which carries the signature 'Johannes'. This painting suggests that Giovanni's work was generally flatter and more decorative than Antonio's more naturalistic style.\n\nGiovanni d'Alemagna and Antonio Vivarini ran an extremely well organized shop in Venice that specialized in multi-tiered, multi-paneled altarpieces and fanciful Gothic frames, which they subcontracted to various woodworkers.\n\nIn 1446 Giovanni and Antonio signed and dated the triptych representing the Madonna and Child with Saints for the wall behind the officers' bench of the recently expanded meeting room of the Scuola della Carità (now part of the Gallerie dell'Accademia). Resembling an altarpiece but functioning as an inducement to good decision making, this monumental painting shows the four doctors of the Church (Sts Gregory and Jerome at the left, Ambrose and Augustine at the right) in a courtyard around a massive Madonna and Child. The Virgin's celestial court is vividly rendered with marbled pink and grey architecture, rich deep colours, costly robes, and lovingly observed plant life.\n\nIn 1448 he started working, together with Vivarini and Andrea Mantegna, in the decoration of the Ovetari Chapel in Padua, but died soon afterwards.\n\n"}
{"id": "22406877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22406877", "title": "Health technology assessment", "text": "Health technology assessment\n\nHealth technology assessment is the systematic evaluation of the properties and effects of a health technology, addressing the direct and intended effects of this technology, as well as its indirect and unintended consequences, and aimed mainly at informing decision making regarding health technologies. It has other definitions including \"a method of evidence synthesis that considers evidence regarding clinical effectiveness, safety, cost-effectiveness and, when broadly applied, includes social, ethical, and legal aspects of the use of health technologies. The precise balance of these inputs depends on the purpose of each individual HTA. A major use of HTAs is in informing reimbursement and coverage decisions by insurers and national health systems, in which case HTAs should include benefit-harm assessment and economic evaluation.\" and \"a multidisciplinary process that summarises information about the medical, social, economic and ethical issues related to the use of a health technology in a systematic, transparent, unbiased, robust manner. Its aim is to inform the formulation of safe, effective, health policies that are patient focused and seek to achieve best value. Despite its policy goals, HTA must always be firmly rooted in research and the scientific method\".\n\nHealth technology assessment is intended to provide a bridge between the world of research and the world of decision-making. HTA is an active field internationally and has seen continued growth fostered by the need to support management, clinical, and policy decisions. It has also been advanced by the evolution of evaluative methods in the social and applied sciences, including clinical epidemiology and health economics. Health policy decisions are becoming increasingly important as the opportunity costs from making wrong decisions continue to grow. HTA is now also used in assessment of innovative medical technologies like telemedicine e.g. by use of the Model for assessment of telemedicine (MAST).\n\nHealth technology can be defined broadly as:\nThe growth of HTA internationally can be seen in the expanding membership of the International Network of Agencies for Health Technology Assessment (INAHTA), a non-profit umbrella organization established in 1993. Organizations and individuals involved in HTA research are also affiliated with societies such as the international societies HTAi and the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR). An international Masters program in health technology assessment and management, ULYSSES, is also offered.\n\nThe United Kingdom's National Institute for Health Research runs several research programmes which may be viewed as falling into the realm of Health Technology Assessment. Of particular note is the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme, its longest running, which undertakes both conventional HTA in the form of Evidence Synthesis and modelling, and evidence generation with a large portfolio of pragmatic RCTs and cohort studies.\n\nAlso in the UK, the Multidisciplinary Assessment of Technology Centre for Healthcare carries out HTA in collaboration with the health service, the NHS and various industrial partners. MATCH is organised into four themes addressing key HTA topics including Health Economics, Tools for Industry, User Needs and Procurement and Supply chain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7878683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7878683", "title": "Henry Waters Taft", "text": "Henry Waters Taft\n\nHenry Waters Taft (May 27, 1859 – August 11, 1945) was an American lawyer and author. He was the son of Alphonso and brother of President William Howard Taft. A renowned antitrust lawyer, he was a name partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft.\n\nHe graduated from Yale in 1880 with a BA, where he was a member of Skull and Bones and commencement orator of the class of 1880. Taft also studied at Cincinnati and Columbia Law Schools. He received an honorary MA from Yale in 1905.\n\nIn 1882, he was admitted to the bar, and began the practice of law in Ohio. Shortly afterward, he joined Strong & Cadwalader, in New York City, later Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft. He also became counsel to the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad. After building up a reputation as a lawyer, Taft decided to run for Justice of the New York Supreme Court. He was defeated. Two years later, he was offered the position by Theodore Roosevelt, but he declined. The following year, he was appointed to the Charter Revision Commission to revise charter of Greater New York. From 1905 to January 1907, he was a special assistant to Attorneys General William H. Moody and Charles Joseph Bonaparte to investigate and prosecute the Tobacco Trust. During the trial, Taft pushed for the Tobacco Trust to release certain books, which they refused to submit as evidence. From 1917 to 1919, he was Chairman of the Permanent Legal Advisory Board for Greater New York. He also served on the Commission on Reorganisation of the New York State Government, from 1925 to 1926. In 1926, he was appointed to the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court. Taft became one of the most noted lawyers in New York. \n\nDuring the annual convention of the American Bar Association, the delegates made a trip to Bohemian Grove. Taft who was among them said, 'There among the giant redwoods the spirit that is San Francisco was revealed to the visitors. The amalgamation of San Francisco Society through its love of beauty, through it cultural purpose has no duplicate in America and the Bohemian Club which unites the world of big business and the world of fine art, literature and cultural ideals could only exist in a community such as this.' Taft said his brother, William Howard Taft, was also very fond of the Bohemian Club.\n\nHe was a Trustee of the Mutual Life Insurance Company and the Central Savings Bank.\n\nTaft was a member of the New York City Board of Education, from 1896 to 1900; Trustee of the College of the City of New York, from 1903 to 1905; Trustee of the New York Public Library, from 1908 to 1919; President of the Council of University Settlement House, from 1917 to 1919; member of the Advisory Committee to investigate public schools of New York City, in 1931; member of the Committee on Cost of Public Education, in 1933; and President of the League for Political Education, from 1919 to 1935.\n\nHe was affiliated with the Republican Party and was a delegate to the Republican National Convention, in 1920 and 1924. Taft was a supporter of the League of Nations, and wrote several articles on the organisation for the \"New York Times\". He also wrote for other newspapers, including \"The Times\".\n\nTaft was Chairman of the Advisory Board of The Salvation Army for New York City, from 1920 to 1940.\n\nTaft died in New York City on August 11, 1945. He had been in the St. Luke's Hospital for fourteen weeks as the result of a hip injury received after a fall.\n\nHe was a member of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York (Vice President, 1911–1912); Chairman of the War Commission, 1917-1920 (President, 1923–1925); the New York County Lawyers' Association (Vice President, 1914–1918, 1923–1930; President, 1930–1932); the New York State Bar Association (President, 1919–1920); the American Bar Association (Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence and Law Reform); the New York Law Institute ; the American Law Institute; the International Law Association; and the Maritime Law Association\n\nHe was a member of the Century Association, City Midday Club of New York, Down Town Association, New England Society, Ohio Society, Park Avenue Association, Pilgrims of the United States, Psi Upsilon, Skull and Bones and the Sons of the American Revolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48896795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48896795", "title": "Hiacynt Alchimowicz", "text": "Hiacynt Alchimowicz\n\nHiacynt Alchimowicz (11 September 1841, Dziembrów, Vilna Governorate - after 1897, France?) was a Polish painter in the Classical style who specialized in watercolor landscapes. His older brother was the painter Kazimierz Alchimowicz.\n\nHe began his artistic studies in Vilnius with Kanuty Rusiecki. Together with Kazimierz, he participated in the January Uprising. His brother was exiled to Siberia for six years, but he was able to escape to France and settled in Perpignan, where he initially supported himself by working as a construction draftsman for a railway company.\n\nIn 1872, when the construction work ended, he resumed his studies. In 1876, he became a drawing teacher at the Polytechnic School and the women's lyceum. Later, he spent some time studying in Paris, where he made the acquaintance of Michał Elwiro Andriolli, who helped him obtain work doing some illustrations. In 1892, he was awarded the Ordre des Palmes Académiques.\n\nHe exhibited in Paris and throughout southern France. As of 1897, he was still known to be living in Perpignan. He apparently never returned to Poland, although his works were exhibited there in 1901 and 1904.\n"}
{"id": "20469560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20469560", "title": "Incontinence (philosophy)", "text": "Incontinence (philosophy)\n\nIncontinence (\"a want of continence or self-restraint\") is often used by philosophers to translate the Greek term Akrasia (ἀκρασία). Used to refer to a lacking in moderation or self-control, especially related to sexual desire, incontinence may also be called wantonness.\n\nAristotle devoted book VII of the Nicomachean Ethics to the discussion of continence and incontinence, having previously linked the latter both to prodigality in its effects, and to those dominated by irrational feeling in its failure to obey knowledge of the good: a case of knowing virtue, but not having habituated it to control passion. \n\nAristotle considered one could be incontinent with respect to money or temper or glory, but that its core relation was to bodily enjoyment. Its causes could be weakness of will, or an impetuous refusal to think. At the same time, he did not consider it a vice, because it is not so much a product of moral choice, but instead, a failure to act on one's better knowledge.\n\nFor Augustine, incontinence was not so much a problem of knowledge (knowing but not acting) but of the will: he considered it a matter of everyday experience that men incontinently choose lesser over greater goods.\n\nIn the structural division of Dante's \"Inferno\", incontinence is the sin punished in the second through fifth circles. The mutual incontinence of lust was for Dante the lightest of the deadly sins, even if its lack of self-control would open the road to deeper layers of Hell.\n\nAkrasia appeared later as a character in Spenser's The Faerie Queene, representing the incontinence of lust, followed in the next canto by a study of that of anger; and as late as Jane Austen the sensibility of such figures as Marianne Dashwood would be treated as a form of (spiritual) incontinence.\n\nWith the triumph of Romanticism, however, the incontinent choice of feeling over reason became increasingly valorised in Western culture. Blake wrote that \"those who restrain desire, do so because theirs is weak enough to be restrained\". Encouraged by Rousseau, there was a rise of what Arnold J. Toynbee would describe as \"an \"abandon\" (ακρατεια)...a state of mind in which antinomianism is accepted – consciously or unconsciously, in theory or in practice – as a substitute for creativeness\".\n\nA peak of such acrasia was perhaps reached in the 1960s cult of letting it all hang out – of breakdown, acting out and emotional self-indulgence and drama. Partly in reaction, the proponents of emotional intelligence would look back to Aristotle in the search for impulse control and delayed gratification – to his dictum that \"a person is called continent or incontinent according as his reason is or is not in control\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2959621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2959621", "title": "Intraparenchymal hemorrhage", "text": "Intraparenchymal hemorrhage\n\nIntraparenchymal hemorrhage (IPH) is one form of intracerebral bleeding in which there is bleeding within brain parenchyma. The other form is intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH).\n\nIntraparenchymal hemorrhage accounts for approx. 8-13% of all strokes and results from a wide spectrum of disorders. It is more likely to result in death or major disability than ischemic stroke or subarachnoid hemorrhage, and therefore constitutes an immediate medical emergency. Intracerebral hemorrhages and accompanying edema may disrupt or compress adjacent brain tissue, leading to neurological dysfunction. Substantial displacement of brain parenchyma may cause elevation of intracranial pressure (ICP) and potentially fatal herniation syndromes.\n\nClinical manifestations of intraparenchymal hemorrhage are determined by the size and location of hemorrhage, but may include the following:\n\n\n\nIn younger patients, vascular malformations, specifically AVMs and cavernous angiomas are more common causes for hemorrhage. In addition, venous malformations are associated with hemorrhage.\n\nIn the elderly population, amyloid angiopathy is associated with cerebral infarcts as well as hemorrhage in superficial locations, rather than deep white matter or basal ganglia. These are usually described as \"lobar\". These bleedings are not associated with systemic amyloidosis.\n\nHemorrhagic neoplasms are more complex, heterogeneous bleeds often with associated edema. These hemorrhages are related to tumor necrosis, vascular invasion and neovascularity. Glioblastomas are the most common primary malignancies to hemorrhage while thyroid, renal cell carcinoma, melanoma, and lung cancer are the most common causes of hemorrhage from metastatic disease.\n\nOther causes of intraparenchymal hemorrhage include hemorrhagic transformation of infarction which is usually in a classic vascular distribution and is seen in approximately 24 to 48 hours following the ischemic event. This hemorrhage rarely extends into the ventricular system.\n\nNontraumatic intraparenchymal hemorrhage most commonly results from hypertensive damage to blood vessel walls e.g.:\n- hypertension\n- eclampsia\n- drug abuse,\nbut it also may be due to autoregulatory dysfunction with excessive cerebral blood flow e.g.:\n- reperfusion injury\n- hemorrhagic transformation\n- cold exposure\n- rupture of an aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation (AVM)\n- arteriopathy (e.g. cerebral amyloid angiopathy, moyamoya)\n- altered hemostasis (e.g. thrombolysis, anticoagulation, bleeding diathesis)\n- hemorrhagic necrosis (e.g. tumor, infection)\n- venous outflow obstruction (e.g. cerebral venous sinus thrombosis).\nNonpenetrating and penetrating cranial trauma can also be common causes of intracerebral hemorrhage.\n\nComputed tomography (CT scan): A CT scan may be normal if it is done soon after the onset of symptoms. A CT scan is the best test to look for bleeding in or around your brain. In some hospitals, a perfusion CT scan may be done to see where the blood is flowing and not flowing in your brain. \n\nMagnetic resonance imaging (MRI scan): A special MRI technique (diffusion MRI) may show evidence of an ischemic stroke within minutes of symptom onset. In some hospitals, a perfusion MRI scan may be done to see where the blood is flowing and not flowing in your brain.\n\nAngiogram: a test that looks at the blood vessels that feed the brain. An angiogram will show whether the blood vessel is blocked by a clot, the blood vessel is narrowed, or if there is an abnormality of a blood vessel known as an aneurysm.\n\nCarotid duplex: A carotid duplex is an ultrasound study that assesses whether or not you have atherosclerosis (narrowing) of the carotid arteries. These arteries are the large blood vessels in your neck that feed your brain. \n\nTranscranial Doppler (TCD): Transcranial Doppler is an ultrasound study that assesses whether or not you have atherosclerosis (narrowing) of the blood vessels inside of your brain. It can also be used to see if you have emboli (blood clots) in your blood vessels.\n\nIntracerebral hemorrhages is a severe condition requiring prompt medical attention. Treatment goals include lifesaving interventions, supportive measures, and control of symptoms. Treatment depends on the location, extent, and cause of the bleeding. Often, treatment can reverse the damage that has been done.\n\nA craniotomy is sometimes done to remove blood, abnormal blood vessels, or a tumor. Medications may be used to reduce swelling, prevent seizures, lower blood pressure, and control pain.\n"}
{"id": "52305647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52305647", "title": "J. Bathurst (Oxford University cricketer)", "text": "J. Bathurst (Oxford University cricketer)\n\nJ. Bathurst (dates and first name unknown) was an English first-class cricketer active in 1835 who played for Oxford University. He appeared in two first-class matches.\n"}
{"id": "21044568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21044568", "title": "Jakob II Bernoulli", "text": "Jakob II Bernoulli\n\nJakob II Bernoulli (17 October 1759 in Basel – 3 July 1789 in Saint Petersburg), younger brother of Johann III Bernoulli. Having finished his literary studies, he was, according to custom, sent to Neuchâtel to learn French. On his return, he graduated in law. This study, however, did not check his hereditary taste for geometry. The early lessons which he had received from his father were continued by his uncle Daniel, and such was his progress that at the age of twenty-one he was called to undertake the duties of the chair of experimental physics, which his uncle’s advanced years rendered him unable to discharge. He afterwards accepted the situation of secretary to count de Brenner, which afforded him an opportunity of seeing Germany and Italy. In Italy, he formed a friendship with Lorgna, professor of mathematics at Verona, and one of the founders of the Società Italiana for the encouragement of the sciences. He was also made corresponding member of the royal society of Turin; and, while residing at Venice, he was, through the friendly representation of Nicolaus von Fuss, admitted into the academy of St Petersburg. In 1788, he was named one of its mathematical professors.\n\nHe drowned while bathing in the Neva in July 1789, a few months after his marriage with a granddaughter of Leonhard Euler.\n\nSeveral of his papers are contained in the first six volumes of \"Nova Acta Academiae Scientiarum Imperialis Petropolitanae\", in the \"Acta Helvetica\", in the \"Memoirs of the Academies of Berlin and Turin\", and in his brother Johann’s publications. He also published separately some juridical and physical theses, and a German translation of \"Mémoires du philosophe de Merian\".\n\nHe was one of the last notable members of the Bernoulli family.\n"}
{"id": "26410191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26410191", "title": "Last Enemy", "text": "Last Enemy\n\n\"Last Enemy\" is a science fiction short story written by H. Beam Piper, and is a part of his Paratime series. The title is a reference to 1 Corinthians 15:26, “The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death.” (KJV)\n\nIt made its first appearance in August 1950, in \"Astounding Science Fiction\" magazine (now \"Analog\").\n\nThe story begins at a dinner party given by Garnon of Roxor. The party is a voluntary discarnation feast, or suicide party. Garnon has been planning his discarnation for years, but has decided to proceed now, to assist in the scientific experiment of Dallona of Hadron. Immediately after Garnon’s death, a nearby sensitive, already placed in a hypnotic trance, begins to channel Garnon’s spirit, giving proof positive that disincarnate individuals are fully conscious, telepathically sensitive, capable of telepathic communication, and capable of exercising choice in the vehicle for their reincarnation.\n\nBut, Dallona’s discovery has important political considerations for the Second Level Akor-Neb society. The Statisticalist party believes that reincarnation is a statistically random event, and as such private property and wealth should be socialized to give everyone an equal opportunity. The Volitionalist party, on the other hand, believes that everyone reincarnates as they please, or of their own volition, so they favor the present system of private property and capitalism. Dallona’s new discoveries have completely undermined the Statisticalists' position, and they are determined to suppress the studies, and do away with Dallona permanently.\n\nIn reality, Dallona of Hadron is actually Hadron Dalla, a psychic-science researcher, from the Paratime First Level. And now that she has mysteriously disappeared, Tortha Karf, the Chief of Paratime Police, sends his special assistant, Verkan Vall, to the Second Level Akor-Neb Sector to find her and bring her back before she can be forcibly discarnated (i.e., murdered).\n\nArriving in the provincial city of Ghamma, Vall, travelling under the pseudonym of Lord Virzal of Verkan, makes contact with the local representative of the Outtime Export and Import Company, and acquires a pair of Assassin bodyguards named Olirzon and Marnik. Together they then travel to the city of Darsh, where Dalla was doing her research, and where Garnon’s feast was held. At the Independent Institute of Reincarnation Research Vall talks to the director, to become familiar with Dalla’s research and its full political fallout.\n\nThrough his associate with the Society of Assassins and the constabulary, Olirzon finds evidence that suggests that Dalla is in fact alive, and hiding out with her Assassin-bodyguard, Dirzed. Vall realizes that it will prove impossible to find Dalla, so he must do something to get her to contact him. When Vall and the Assassins go to a restaurant, they find themselves sitting next to a table that contains three Statisticalists who are loudly denouncing Dalla’s work and disappearance as a politically inspired hoax. The three men “were of a breed Verkan Vall had learned to recognize on any time-line -- the arrogant, cocksure, ambitious, leftist politician, who knows what is best for everybody better than anybody else does, and who is convinced that he is inescapably right and that whoever differs with him is not only an ignoramus but a venal scoundrel as well.”\n\nFeigning insult at one Statisticalist’s statements, Vall succeeds in getting each of the three to challenge him to individual duels, which in Akor-Neb are to the death. The first duel is handled with knives, and Vall succeeds in killing his opponent, Marnark of Bashad, in eight seconds. The remaining two duels are handled with guns, and Vall succeeds in killing these opponents, Sirzob of Abo and Yirzol of Narva, with one shot each to the head.\n\nAfter the duels, Klarnood, the President-General of the Society of Assassins, who served as a witness to the duels, takes Vall aside, and informs him that the three men he has just killed were high among the leadership of the Statisticalist party, and that the Statisticalists will be as determined to discarnate him as they are Hadron Dalla. Also, he has certain knowledge that Dalla and Dirzed were alive four days previous, and that in three or four days he might be able to put Vall in communication with the pair. It is at that point that Vall explains that his reason for provoking the duels was to advertise his presence, so that Dalla can get in touch with him. Quickly checking a news broadcast on a visiplate, the pair finds that the duels are the top news story.\n\nThe next day, as the Earth of the Akor-Neb Sector descends into civil war, Verkan Vall receives a sealed message written in the alphabet and language of the First Paratime Level. It is from Dalla, and introduces its bearer as Dirzed, who has come to take Vall to her. She is hiding out in a hunting lodge that belongs to Prince Jirzyn of Starpha, a nobleman and important leader among the Volitionalists.\n\nDalla is overjoyed to see Vall, and happily tells him about all of the advancements she has made with past-life recall. But, when Vall tells her that she must immediately return to the First Level she refuses. It seems that one ramification of her studies has escaped her –- if a Paratimer dies in the Akor-Neb Sector, and later takes one of this sector’s past-life recall procedures, then the Paratime secret will be utterly revealed. Conditioned, like all Paratimers, to protect the Paratime secret at all costs, Dalla realizes that it is imperative that they leave Akor-Neb as soon as possible.\n\nBefore they can leave the lodge, they and their Assassins come under attack from the Starpha family servants. It seems that Prince Jirzyn has changed his mind, and now wishes Lady Dallona dead –- Dalla’s experiments are beginning to bear more unexpected fruit. It seems that years ago Jirzyn of Starpha had murdered his brother to gain the title and position that his brother had, and now a man has found out that he was that brother in his most recent reincarnation and he has filled suit against Jirzyn to retrieve the title. This suit calls into question all the laws of inheritance, and has made the position of the rich and titled frighteningly unstable.\n\nBesieged in an underground level of the hunting lodge, Vall and Dalla and their Assassin-bodyguards fight for their lives; their only hope being that when the shooting had started Marnik had been able to go to Klarnood for the help that he had promised. Just when the Starpha people gain the upper hand, and seem ready to discarnate the lot of them, help does indeed arrive and the Paratimers are saved. But all is not well, the lodge is rocked when an atomic bomb is detonated some forty miles distant, the first one fired in anger in a thousand years.\n\nIn Akor-Neb society, an Assassins’ Truce is a temporary cessation of hostilities, and before he leaves Vall recommends to President-General Klarnood that he declare a planet-wide Assassins’ Truce, holding the leaders personally responsible with their carnate existence for keeping it. Klarnood accepts the idea, and wishes Vall and Dalla well, expressing hope that he see neither of them ever again.\n\nOn their trip back to the First Level city of Dhergabar, Dalla expresses her regret at the forces she has released in the Akor-Neb Sector, but Vall assures her that she can only see the surface of the immediate situation, and that it is impossible to know what the long-term results will be. He compares the situation to that on Fourth Level Europo-American, where scientists regret their invention of the atomic bomb. Vall is confident that just what the sector needs is a “series of all-out atomic wars” and that, “in a century or so, the inventors of the atomic bomb will be hailed as the saviors of their species.”\n\nAs they talk, Dalla realizes that all her experiments prove that death isn’t forever, and that the last enemy -– death -– has finally been conquered. But Vall assures her that they still have one enemy left, stupidity, and death has no power over that. The story ends with Vall and Dalla vowing to return to the Akor-Neb Sector in a hundred years and see what changes have occurred.\n\nIn 2001, \"Enemy\" was nominated for the 1951 Retro-Hugo Award for Best Novella\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30876695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876695", "title": "List of deaths from anorexia nervosa", "text": "List of deaths from anorexia nervosa\n\nThis is a list of notable people who have died from anorexia nervosa, in chronological order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57995374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57995374", "title": "Los ángeles (Rosalía album)", "text": "Los ángeles (Rosalía album)\n\nLos ángeles (; Spanish for \"the angels\") is the debut studio album by Spanish singer Rosalía, with production and arrangements by Raül Refree. It was released on February 10, 2017 by Universal Music Spain.\n\nRosalía began performing in tablaos a decade before the release of her recording debut, gradually becoming a known vocalist in Barcelona's flamenco circuit. She worked as a guest artist and supporting act for various artists, including Chicuelo, Enric Palomar, La Fura dels Baus, Miguel Poveda and Rocío Márquez, performing across countries such as Germany, Singapur and Panama and events like the 2015 Primavera Sound and an APAP conference in New York City. She told \"ABC\": \"I have done many collaborations with other musicians, and I have always tried that they were older than me, in order to learn from them.\" Rosalía grew up in a family with no artistic background that mostly listened to music in English. She discovered flamenco at thirteen when her friends played Camarón de la Isla while meeting in a park after school, soon becoming fascinated with the genre and studying it on her own. As she immersed herself in the Catalan flamenco scene, Rosalía met local fixture José Miguel Vizcaya \"El Chiqui de la Línea\", who suggested she started a degree in music. \"El Chiqui\" became Rosalía's teacher for the following eight years, as she studied Interpretation of Flamenco Singing at the Catalonia College of Music (Spanish: \"Escuela Superior de Música de Cataluña\", ESMUC). The ESMUC only accepts one student of this discipline per year and Rosalía was selected in 2014. The singer has described \"El Chiqui\" as a fundamental figure in her career, who encouraged her to investigate the genre even further back in time. Speaking with \"ABC\", she stated: \"To me, flamenco was Camarón, something of gypsy aesthetics, and when going back I found many other things that I loved. [...] When I discovered \"cantaores\" like Niño de la Huerta or \"El Gloria\", \"El Chiqui\" taught me to listen and appreciate their singing, because their recordings sound very bad! To people of our age that sound seems terrible to us.\"\n\n\"Los ángeles\" is a concept album that collects a series of \"cantes\" which have death as its central theme. It is a presentation of Rosalía as a soloist \"cantaora\" and as such its structure is similar to that of the debut of any orthodox flamenco singer: \"a selection of varied \"palos\", often with traditional or popular lyrics, in which the artist shows his or her aptitude and background.\" In this manner, the singer encompasses several forms of the genre, including \"alegrías\", \"tangos\", \"fandangos\", \"fandanguillos\", \"seguidillas\", \"tarantas\", \"malagueñas\" and \"more specific\" styles like \"guajira\", \"saeta\" and \"milonga\". Rosalía felt that in the album \"the \"cantes\" become songs\", and as such did not list the \"palos\" titles in the track listing, explaining that: \"It's a way of saying that I am based on melodies and lyrics from \"cantes\", but we turn it into something else. Those who know something about flamenco will be able to identify them, because we are influenced by that, but we do our own thing.\" \n\nRosalía told Ecleen Luzmila Caraballo of Jezebel in 2018: \"I feel like with \"Los ángeles\", I wanted to establish my musical legacy... and honor the classic sound of flamenco in the most traditional sense, respecting them to the maximum, with a pop and experimental structure, but with very basic instrumentation and a minimalist sound—just guitar and voice.\"\n\n\"Los ángeles\" was released on February 20, 2017 on Universal Music Spain. It was released at digital audio stores and streaming platforms, as well as a CD and double LP record. \"Catalina\" was released as the album's lead single on October 17, 2016 and presented by Rosalía in Radio 3, after having shared its B side \"Que se muere, que se muere\" online a few weeks before. Its music video was directed by Txema Yeste and has been described as \"a visual translation of the power of this song\". An electronic press kit (EPK) featuring English subtitles was published in Rosalía's YouTube channel on April 21, 2017. The video was produced by Yverz and directed by Bàrbara Farré, with photography by Lucas Casanovas and animation by Pepe Gay. \n\nSpanish filmmaking collective Manson directed the music video for \"De plata\", which features the singer performing the track as she walks and dances in the streets of Los Angeles, California. It was published in Rosalía's YouTube channel on May 26, 2017. Luis Troquel of \"Rockdelux\" felt that the clip showed a \"facet of Rosalía that was unknown to many\", as she dances \"with a glowing enchantment and exuberant style.\" Manson shot the clip in 16 mm film, as they \"wanted to portray Rosalía as a classic Hollywood star, but with a contemporary sensibility.\" The collective told Nowness that they chose the song because it had a \"Tarantino-esque vibe\" that they thought matched Los Angeles. They further explained: \"Her art is very pure and wild and we wanted a video to match—no camera tricks, no VFX, no ornaments, no Tumblr aesthetics, just the pure and raw performance of a new-born classic star.\" A cover version of Enrique Morente's \"Aunque es de noche\", which was not included in the album and had only been performed live, was released as a single on November 2, 2017 on streaming platforms. Its music video was directed by Ignasi Monreal and produced by CANADA in collaboration with Pink Salt and Collateral Films, with animation by Iria López, Dani Negrín and Bjørn-Erik Aschim from the London animation studio The Line. Filmed as a long take, the video's first two minutes show the inside of a car filled with elements of Christian symbolism, leading the viewer to Rosalía sitting on a chair. The singer then stands up and shows that she is inside a cemetery and in the last minutes, animation appears around and on her. According to Rosalía, the music video \"intends to be a celebration of death as part of life\", and as such has been linked to the concept of \"Los ángeles\". In between recording for the video, Monreal also filmed Rosalía performing an a capella rendition of the track, which was released via Nowness on December 14, 2017.\n\n\"Los ángeles\" received several positive reviews from music critics. Spanish magazine \"Rockdelux\" called it \"one of the most intense and sweeping debuts of recent times\", with critic Juan Monge complimenting its mix of tradition and avant-garde. AllMusic's Mariano Prunes highly commended Rosalía's vocals, writing that \"her instrument is a tornado capable of sweeping away any cultural or language barriers\", while noting that \"she does not accomplish this with sheer volume or vocal histrionics, but by reaching almost unbearable levels of intensity and expression.\" He concluded that \"Los ángeles\" \"signals the appearance of a major talent in both the flamenco and the world music scene.\" Writing for MondoSonoro, Yeray S. Iborra felt that with \"Los ángeles\", Rosalía \"is posited as the contemporary cantaora who has better understood the current times\", noting the difference between the album and her \"more American\" collaboration with C. Tangana.\n\nIn an \"El Confidencial\" article, musician and investigator Pedro Lópeh criticized the album, particularly Refree's work, deeming it \"artificial\" and \"wearisome\". His views coincided with those of Silvia Cruz, another flamenco expert. He stated: \"I also insist on talking about Refree because the inks are always loaded against her and little or nothing against him, who is the producer and first author of this album. I do not think \"Los ángeles\" does any harm to flamenco, but it is a decontextualized product. Apart from the lyrics, I do not hear anything in it that appeals to the history of flamenco, its roots or its referents. For that reason, it does not seem to me a groundbreaking or revolutionary work and if it has come to save something, it is the music industry, not flamenco.\" \"ABC\"s Alberto García Reyes told eldiario.es that while he does not consider \"Los ángeles\" to be \"an aberration\", he feels Rosalía is not suited for the genre. He said: \"Rosalía does not sing badly, but in flamenco she does not fit much. She is a very respectful girl, who has not come to invent a revolution for her face. She does not hurt anyone or has proclaimed herself master of anything.\" He was also critical of the album's promotional campaign, arguing that it installed the unworthy image of Rosalía as \"the great revolution of flamenco\".\n\n\"Los ángeles\" ranked highly in the year-end lists of the Spanish specialized press. It was listed as the best Spanish album of 2017 by newspaper \"ABC\" and magazine \"Rockdelux\". Readers of the Barcelonian edition of \"Time Out\" selected \"Los ángeles\" as the best album of 2017, with the publication describing Rosalía as \"the musical revelation of 2017\". The album also appeared at number 6 in the year-end list of Spanish online magazine Jenesaispop.com, which described it as \"an unbeatable presentation, up to the expectations, which are even higher in the face of a bright future.\" CrazyMusic ranked the album at number 8 in its list of the best Spanish albums of 2017. Music critics of \"El País\" listed \"Los ángeles\" as the 10th best album of the year. Efe Eme selected the album as the 13th best Spanish record of 2017. It also appeared in Hipersónica's and Muzikalia's lists of the best Spanish albums of the year, at number 17 and 18 respectively.\n\nIn late 2017, Rosalía received the Premio Ojo Crítico in the category of Modern Music, awarded by RNE. The jury highlighted the singer's \"artistic projection, her interpretative capacity and versatility, her charisma, capable of transferring flamenco to young audiences.\" Rosalía was also nominated for Best New Artist at the 2017 Latin Grammy Awards, losing to Vicente García. On January 17, 2018, \"Los ángeles\" was awarded the Premio Ruido, given to the best national album of the year by the Spanish music press. The album also received a Premio Glamour to \"the arts\", awarded by the Spanish edition of \"Glamour\" magazine in celebration of its 15th anniversary.\n\n\"Los ángeles\" debuted at number forty two on the Spanish Albums Chart on February 19, 2017. A month later, Sebas E. Alonso of Jenesaispop.com noted that the album had remained charting since its release, ascending to number twenty-eight in its third week and maintaining that position the following week. Feeling that it was in its way to becoming the Spanish \"sleeper hit of the year\", Alonso described \"Los ángeles\"s chart run as \"totally exceptional\", taking into account that most albums \"after the hype of the fans during the first week, [fall] slightly on the list until they settle depending on the duration of the promotion of the album or directly collapse.\" Likewise, Jordi Bardají wrote on November 1, 2018 that the record was \"one of the greatest 'sleepers' that Spanish sales lists have known in recent times.\" \"Los ángeles\" reached its peak position of number nine and has remained in the albums chart since its entry, having accumulated a total of eighty weeks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52516516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52516516", "title": "Lucy Finch", "text": "Lucy Finch\n\nLucy Finch (born 1943) is a palliative nurse who has worked in several African countries and founded a hospice in Malawi – \"Ndi Moyo\" – \"the place giving life\".\n\nBorn Lucy Kishindo in Malawi in 1943, she was the eldest of 11 children of an Anglican primary school teacher. She was educated at mission schools in southern Malawi and trained as a nurse in the UK.\n\nIn September 1964, Lucy travelled to Scotland to study nursing at the South Edinburgh School of Nursing. In 1969, she met and married Tony Finch, son of the potter Ray Finch. He worked for the Forestry Commission around the world and Lucy travelled with him, working as a nurse in Britain, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. In 1997, while her husband was based in Kampala, Lucy Finch began volunteering at Hospice Africa Uganda, where she worked with Dr Anne Merriman in her pioneering, palliative care programme. A year later, she returned to Malawi to nurse her sister, who was dying of HIV-related meningitis. In the same hospital, a young man was dying in great pain and distress with no adequate pain relief. Lucy Finch vowed then, that with the knowledge and skills that she had, she would never again allow herself to be in that position where she could not help somebody who was suffering.\n\nIn 2002, Lucy and Tony Finch returned to Malawi and she began to help local patients, providing them with paracetamol and other assistance. In 2005, her family and friends in the UK founded a charity to raise funds to support the work that she had started. After gathering resources, the hospice \"Ndi Moyo\" – \"the place giving life\" – was opened in the Salima District in 2007 by the Minister of Health, Marjorie Ngaunje. In 2016, it was the only hospice in all of Malawi. As of 2016, \"Ndi Moyo\" treats about 330 patients; trains and mentors health professionals; runs outreach clinics; and advocates for better end-of-life care. It provides home-based, patient-centred, holistic care to patients who would otherwise have little access to pain relief or end-of-life support. According to 2015 estimates, approximately 1 million people in Malawi are living with HIV/AIDS and many of these patients develop cancers in a country that has no curative public health cancer treatment.\n\nIn 2013, Lucy Finch was recognised by Hospice Africa Uganda for her outstanding support in the promotion and development of palliative care in Uganda. In 2015, she was awarded a Certificate of Recognition by the Right Honourable Dr Peter Kumpalume, the Malawi Minister for Health. In 2016, she was recognised as one of the BBC's 100 Women for her work caring for the dying.\n\n"}
{"id": "36514459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36514459", "title": "Majin Buu", "text": "Majin Buu\n\n, generally spelled Majin Boo in subtitles of the Japanese anime, and rendered as Djinn-Boo in the Viz Media manga, is a fictional character and the final antagonist in the \"Dragon Ball\" manga series created by Akira Toriyama. He is introduced in chapter #460 first published in \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" magazine on March 1, 1994. Majin Buu is a genie-like magical life form created by the evil warlock Bibidi that terrorized galaxies by destroying entire planets, millions of years before the events of \"Dragon Ball\" take place. He was temporarily sealed away and brought to Earth; however, Bibidi was killed and Buu remained hidden. During the events of \"Dragon Ball\", he is revived by Bibidi's son Babidi in order to carry on his father's plan to conquer the entire universe.\n\nManga author Akira Toriyama stated that when creating a villain in \"Dragon Ball\", he would try to make them different from any that had come before. Although it was difficult and he was usually not entirely pleased with the results, he thinks he did achieve this with Majin Buu. The \"Shenlong Times\" issue #2, a bonus pamphlet given to some buyers of the \"Daizenshuu 2: Story Guide\" guidebook, says that Majin Buu was modeled after Toriyama's editor at the time, Fuyuto Takeda. Buu, Bibbidi and Bobbidi take their names from the song \"Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo\" in the Walt Disney movie \"Cinderella\".\n\nMajin Buu has several different forms, each with a different appearance and personality, however, all are pink creatures with an antenna on their head and several holes/pores on both sides of their heads, arms and their vertebrae. They have a rubbery body that can regenerate instantly from any wound, separate parts of it from themselves and control them independently, and can even completely restore themselves from vapor. Buu can also heal damaged beings, and can absorb other organisms by enveloping them with his body or eating them, the latter done by using his signature attack that turns people into food such as candy.\n\nWhen first introduced he is overweight and wears gloves, boots, a vest and a cape. His appearance and the manner in which he appeared from his ball is somewhat genie-esque, an aspect further implied in the Japanese word \"Majin\" in his name, which can read as \"Djinn\", which lead to Viz Media rendering his name as Djinn-Boo for the English manga release. His trousers, in all forms he takes, bear the same \"M\" symbol as many other characters associated with Babidi in this part of the manga; whether this is short for Buu's title of \"Majin\", Babidi's title of \"Madoshi\" in the original Japanese, or something else is unclear.\n\nMajin Buu's manner is very naive and childlike, taking joy in fighting and scaring people. Throughout the series, he is always referred to by either Majin Buu or simply Buu, no matter what form he is in. However, each form has been given their own names in guidebooks, video games or by fans, in order to distinguish between them. When Buu expels the evil inside him, it takes on a taller and much skinnier, frail form referred to as . When this Buu absorbs the fat one, he transforms in a muscular version of himself referred to as . Personality-wise, Evil Buu is more intelligent than Buu and is described as \"pure rage\". \n\nThis intelligence allows him to plan ahead for the opportunity to absorb Gotenks and Piccolo, and later Gohan. After absorbing the first two, his antenna lengthen and forming five full-fingers, Evil Buu gains Piccolo's intellect and momentarily wore Gotenks's vest and strength before his latter victim's fusion wore off. He then absorbed Gohan, gaining his power while wearing his dōgi top and undershirt. The last form shown, referred to as Kid Buu or , is actually Buu's original form. Evil Buu was forced into that state after the fat Buu was completely removed from his body along with Gohan, Goten, Trunks, and Piccolo. While a child-like version of Evil Buu, Kid Buu is completely feral and animalistic, living only to destroy and is called \"evil incarnate\". \"Daizenshuu 2: Story Guide\" refers to him as the \"strongest enemy in the universe\". Even after Kid Buu is killed, the fat Majin Buu lives on Earth now completely-kindhearted and known as . In the anime, Buu's \"Evil\" and \"Pure\" forms' designs differ from the manga in that they both always have five fingers.\n\nBeing the final villain faced by the protagonists in the \"Dragon Ball\" manga, Buu is the most powerful of them all, possessing vast superhuman strength, speed and reflexes beyond that of a trained Super Saiyan 2. He is able to channel his inner Ki energy for devastating offensive techniques capable of destroying planets or star systems. Buu also holds the unique ability of being able to transform objects or living things into chocolate or other sweet foods which he then consumes to satiate his greed and gluttony. Buu is also able to instantly recover and regenerate from severe trauma, dismemberment and even combustion at a sub-molecular level. Buu can instantly emulate techniques used on him, launching Goku's signature Kamehameha many times.\n\nBefore the events of \"Dragon Ball\", the evil warlock Bibbidi created Majin Buu; a being that existed \"solely to slaughter and destroy\" and within a few years they destroyed hundreds of planets. Buu even killed four of the five Supreme Kais who govern the universe, absorbing one of them and their leader which dulled his destructive nature and turned him into his current form. But Buu was still too ferocious even for Bibbidi to control, resulting with the Majin temporarily sealed and moved to their next target, Earth. But the last surviving Supreme Kai, Shin, took advantage of this to kill Bibbidi with Buu sealed away on Earth. In the present day, Bibbidi's son Babidi makes it his goal to revive Buu, which Shin plans to prevent by killing him. But Shin underestimates the power of Goku and Vegeta, and their spent energy results in Majin Buu's quick revival. When Babidi threatens to re-seal him, Buu begins to obey his orders and destroys and kills everything and everyone in sight in-order to get Piccolo, Trunks and Goten to come out of hiding. That is until Goku asks him why he lets Babidi boss him around, leading to Buu killing him, however he continues his mischief and destruction, unaware that what he is doing is wrong.\n\nMajin Buu attacks humans, destroying nearly all of the world's population, then builds a house by converting people into clay. He is resting in his house when Mr. Satan befriends him while waiting for an opening to kill him. The friendship coupled with the affection from a dog he healed, has Buu resolve not to kill anymore, when two civilians shoot the dog and then Mr. Satan. Buu heals them, but the evil aspect of his personality takes advantage of Buu's rage to manifest out of his body, transforming into a taller and much skinnier Buu, who attacks the now weaker fat Buu. The evil Buu reflects fat Buu's attack, turning his benign counterpart into chocolate and eating him to become whole and transform into a more dangerous Majin Buu. Evil Buu quickly senses Piccolo, Trunks and Goten and goes to them, demanding Gotenks fight him. Gohan then arrives and clearly has the upper-hand over Buu, but Buu absorbs Gotenks and later Piccolo. Now stronger than Gohan, Buu, knowing that there is a time-limit on Gotenks' fusion, planned ahead and is able to absorb Gohan as well. However, Goku and Vegeta fuse together into Vegito, but, despite being powerful enough to defeat him, they purposefully get absorbed by Buu in-order to enter his body. Though the Potara Fusion ran its course, Goku and Vegeta manage to retrieve Gohan, Piccolo, Goten, and Trunks before they completely separate fat Buu from Evil Buu.\n\nThe removal of Buu causes Evil Buu to revert to the original form of Majin Buu, no longer deluded by his benign counterpart as he immediately destroys the Earth. Kid Buu then follows Goku and Vegeta to the Kaiō-shin planet, where, after a battle with Goku, he is stalled by Vegeta and then fat Buu, so that Goku can finish him off with a giant \"Genki-Dama\" made with energy from the people on the newly resurrected Earth. The good fat Majin Buu goes on to live with Mr. Satan on Earth as Mr. Buu, after the Dragon Balls erase the people of Earth's memories about him. Kid Buu is reincarnated into a child named Oob, whom, ten years later, Goku meets at the Tenka'ichi Budōkai martial arts tournament and leaves with to train as his successor.\n\nBuu is selected to participate in the Universe 7 team's tournament with Universe 6. He is disqualified before the tournament begins by falling asleep during the exam. Buu agrees to fight with Goku and Gohan in the Universe Survival tournament, being matched against Universe 9's Basil. Buu is initially overwhelmed, though becomes enraged over seeing Mr. Satan injured by the battle collaterally and quickly overpowers Basil. After consuming a drug that increases his power, Basil seems to gain the upper hand on Buu with a buffer form coinciding with his attacks, however Buu is unaffected by the attacks and defeats Basil with a Kamehameha wave. Buu then heals Mr. Satan. After the mini tournament, Buu begins to train on Earth for the Tournament of Power. Due to the intensity of his training, Buu gains a slimmer and toned body and spares against Goku, beating him. Alas, also due to the intensity of his training, Buu falls asleep and will not wake for 3 months, forcing him to miss the Tournament of Power. \n\nShortly after the events of the Tournament of Power and , Buu is kidnapped by the Galactic Patrol and taken to their headquarters. Goku and Vegeta are taken as well and find out their kidnapper is Merusu, the Galatic Patrol's #1 elite patrolman. Merusu explains that an evil criminal has escaped from galactic prison, and in order to recapture this criminal they need the Grand Kaioshin who is inside of Buu.\n\nIn \"Dragon Ball GT\", an anime-only sequel to the series, both Mr. Buu and Oob participate in battles against foes such as Baby, Super Android #17 and Super One-Star Dragon. They also fuse together, creating a character referred to as \"Majoob\" or and became more powerful. Buu is also seen in the 2008 short film \"\" and plays a small role in the 2013 theatrical \"Dragon Ball Z\" film, \"\".\n\nMajin Buu briefly appears in an episode of the 1997 anime remake of Toriyama's \"Dr. Slump\", and makes a brief cameo appearance in Toriyama's manga series \"Neko Majin Z\". He also appears in chapter four of the \"Saikyō Jump\" manga \"Dragon Ball SD\", a super deformed spin-off of \"Dragon Ball\" written by Naho Ōishi, which depicts a comedic alternate retelling of him being released. Ōishi drew a special chapter focusing on Buu for the July 2014 issue, titled it also features Toriyama's \"Neko Majin\".\n\nHe is a playable character in the franchise's video games, the first being \"Dragon Ball Z: Super Butōden 3\" in 1994, but also in most of the more recent games such as the \"\" series. He is also playable in the \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" crossover games \"Battle Stadium D.O.N\" and \"Jump Ultimate Stars\".\n\nHe is also referenced in the song \"Pink Matter\" by Frank Ocean featuring André 3000 in the lyrics \"That soft pink matter, Cotton candy Majin Buu\".\n\nIn the original Japanese, Buu and all his forms are voiced by Kōzō Shioya in all media. He said he looked at the character as a self-centered three-year-old. Even through all the different forms of the character, Shioya explained that he tried not to deviate too far from the personality of the original while subtlety showing that he changed form. \n\nIn the Funimation dub, Josh Martin voices fat and Kid Buu, while Justin Cook voices Evil and Super Buu. Meanwhile, in the Ocean Group dubs, fat Buu is voiced by Scott McNeil, while Evil, Super, and Kid Buu are voiced by Brian Dobson.\n\nMajin Buu is a popular character in the \"Dragon Ball\" series, in 2004 Japanese fans voted him the eighth most popular character. He was rated by \"Wizard\" magazine as the 40th greatest villain of all time, the only anime or manga character from Japan to make the list. IGN's David F. Smith states that although he is tough, Majin Buu's pink complexion prevents anybody from taking him as a serious threat. Theron Martin of Anime News Network claims Buu's \"childlike demeanor actually gives his malicious smiles and mad faces a surprisingly chilling effect\", claiming it sets him apart from the \"hyper-evil badasses\" of the series. He called Josh Martin's English vocal performance far more childish than Kōzō Shioya's, but also felt that Shioya's voice does not fit Buu's behavior. According to Dennis Amith of J!-ENT, seeing him \"kill people for the sake of hunger or for enjoyment to hear things go 'boom makes Buu the deadliest villain of the series. Toriyama stated that the fight between Buu and Gotenks was fun to draw because he was able to come up with odd techniques in \"the spirit of gag manga\".\n"}
{"id": "23067300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23067300", "title": "Metroid: Other M", "text": "Metroid: Other M\n\nLongtime \"Metroid\" director Yoshio Sakamoto approached Team Ninja to develop \"Other M\", while animation studio D-Rockets was brought in to handle the in-game cutscenes. The development team employed a simple control scheme to make the game appealing to modern players, and gave significant focus on plot and characterization, with extensive cinematics and voice acting. \"Other M\" is played from a third-person perspective using only the Wii Remote, and focuses on exploration and combat. It introduces melee attacks which can only be executed when an enemy's health is reduced.\n\n\"Other M\" received praise for its gameplay, music, graphics and atmosphere. Some journalists, however, criticized its plot and Samus's characterization. The game also received honors from several journalistic sites and magazines. It was the third best-selling video game in Japan during its week of release, and the ninth best-selling game in North America during September 2010. \"Metroid: Other M\" was re-released on the Wii U's Nintendo eShop in 2016.\n\n\"Metroid: Other M\" is an action-adventure game with three-dimensional graphics. Players take control of series protagonist Samus Aran, a bounty hunter who investigates a derelict space station, known as the Bottle Ship. The main environment is the vessel interior, known as the Main Sector, along with the other environments that are contained in \"sectors\" or gigantic spheres within the ship: the Biosphere, a lush, tropical region; the Cryophere, an arctic environment; and the Pyrosphere, a heated, lava-filled area. The gameplay revolves around solving puzzles to uncover secrets, platform jumping, and shooting enemies. The game unfolds in a linear manner, and the in-game map highlights the next objective.\n\nThe regular gameplay features a third-person perspective, where players hold the Wii Remote horizontally. Samus can jump, fire the arm cannon, and turn into a morph ball, which can roll into narrow passages and drop energy bombs. While gameplay is similar to early \"Metroid\" titles, the game's environments are three-dimensional and movement is not limited to a two-dimensional plane. When the Wii Remote is pointed towards the screen, the angle switches into a first-person perspective, where players can lock onto targets and fire missiles; however, players cannot move in this perspective. There are several instances where players will have to constantly switch between play modes; for example, fighting off a horde of flying enemies in third person, while switching to first person to destroy their spawn points. Additionally, the first-person mode is also used in exploration, such as locating hidden items.\n\n\"Metroid: Other M\" is the first game in the \"Metroid\" series to feature melee attacks. With well-timed button presses, players can use special techniques, such as the Sense Move, which allows them to dodge enemy attacks, and the Overblast, where Samus jumps on the enemy and fires a charged shot at point-blank range. Unlike other \"Metroid\" games, enemies do not drop items, with the restoration of health and ammo occurring either by using the Navigation Booths, or employing of the Concentration technique, where Samus rests and replenishes missiles and health. Players can also use the Navigation Booths to save their progress. While there are power-ups scattered around the Bottle Ship, a few items are already equipped by Samus, but she agrees to wait to use them until commanding officer Adam Malkovich authorizes her to do so. Players can find items that will augment Samus's abilities, such as Energy and Missile Tanks.\n\nAs a special feature, players can unlock \"Theater Mode\"—a two-hour film presentation—after completing of the game. Divided into chapters, this film contains every cutscene of the game, along with several clips of gameplay footage recorded by the developers.\n\n\"Metroid: Other M\" takes place between \"Super Metroid\" and \"Metroid Fusion\". Samus awakens in a Galactic Federation facility after dreaming about her battle on planet Zebes with Mother Brain and the death of an infant Metroid. After leaving the facility, Samus receives a distress signal from a derelict vessel known as the \"Bottle Ship\". There, Samus meets the Galactic Federation 07th Platoon, among which her old colleagues from her military career: her commanding officer Adam Malkovich, and point man Anthony Higgs. After Samus saves the platoon from monsters, Adam allows her to cooperate with the platoon under the condition that she follow his orders, and assigns the platoon to go on solo searches to investigate the Bottle Ship. Samus and the 07th Platoon heads to the Biosphere's Exam Center, where they learn that the ship's director, Dr. Madeline Bergman, had conducted research on illegal bioweapons for the Federation. After a mysterious reptilian creature attacks before being driven off, Adam directs Samus to follow the monster to the Pyrosphere, but is quickly directed to the Cryosphere in search for survivors. There, Samus encounters a woman in a lab coat, but is attacked by an unidentified 07th Platoon soldier piloting an industrial robot. Realizing there is a traitor amongst the platoon, Samus dubs him the \"Deleter\".\n\nSamus returns to the Pyrosphere to follow the reptilian creature, and discovers that it is actually a juvenile stage of the dragon-like Ridley. Anthony draws Ridley's attention and challenges him, but is seemingly killed. Unable to save Anthony, Samus battles Ridley, who subsequently escapes. As she leaves the Pyrosphere, Samus realizes she cannot contact Adam, and discovers the \"Deleter\" heading to the Biosphere. Samus follows him to the Bioweapon Research Center, where she meets the woman from before, who introduces herself as \"Madeline Bergman.\" Madeline explains that the scientist were propagating the Metroids in the Bottle Ship, reproduced from the remnants of the infant Metroid found on Samus's power suit after her return from Zebes. Madeline also reveals that MB—an artificial intelligence based on Mother Brain—was created to control the Metroids, harbored in a secret area known as Sector Zero, a recreation of Tourian, and that Adam is behind the Metroid military program. Samus heads to Sector Zero, but Adam stops her from entering, warning her that the Metroids in Sector Zero cannot be frozen. Adam commands Samus to defeat Ridley and secure the safety of a survivor in \"Room MW\" of the Bioweapon Research Center. Adam then heads to Sector Zero to activate its self-destruct sequence, sacrificing himself in the process.\n\nSamus returns to the research center, where she finds the body of the \"Deleter\", who is revealed to be James Pierce, and the mummified remains of Ridley. She also discovers the survivor, and defeats a Queen Metroid. Samus pursues the survivor, who reveals herself to be the real Madeline. Madeline explains that the woman Samus met earlier was MB, an android created to establish a relationship with the Metroids. Betrayed by scientists and Madeline, MB telepathically commanded the Space Pirate special forces to attack those on board and had managed to propagate the Metroids and the Queen Metroid in Sector Zero. Samus and Madeline are confronted by MB; as a group of Federation troopers rushes into the room, MB summons the Bottle Ship's most dangerous creatures to attack everyone. Madeline stops MB, who is then destroyed by Federation troopers. The colonel compliments Samus's efforts but orders a trooper to escort Samus back to her ship; a trooper complies and reveals himself as Anthony, the only surviving member of the 07th Platoon. Samus, Madeline and Anthony leave for the Galactic Federation headquarters in Samus's gunship.\n\nDays after the incident, Samus returns to the Bottle Ship, now marked for destruction by the Galactic Federation, to retrieve something that is left there. After battling Phantoon, a monster Samus had also fought on Zebes, she arrives at the control center and recovers Adam's platoon helmet. The Bottle Ship's self-destruct sequence is remotely activated, which an armorless Samus escapes with Adam's helmet.\n\n\"Metroid: Other M\" was developed by \"Project M\", a team of over 100 people that includes staff from Nintendo, Team Ninja, and D-Rockets, with production lasting for three years. When the Wii console was released, Nintendo producer and chief \"Metroid\" designer Yoshio Sakamoto decided to create a new \"Metroid\" game for it, but opted to work with an outside company, as his usual development team did not have a knowledge to produce a 3D game. Sakamoto eventually approached Yosuke Hayashi of Team Ninja to discuss the incorporation of the flashy engine used for \"Ninja Gaiden\" (2004) into a new engine to encompass his new vision of a 3D \"Metroid\" game. Sakamoto served as producer and scenario designer, and main design was done by three designers from previous 2D \"Metroid\" games—\"Metroid Fusion\" (2002) and \"\" (2004). Team Ninja took charge of the programming and 3D modeling, and D-Rockets handled the CG cutscenes. Hayashi described the work on the game as \"a great honour\" since he was a fan of the series, and stated Team Ninja tried to include as many creatures seen in previous games as possible.\n\nWhile Retro Studios tried to create \"the ultimate first-person experience\" with the \"Metroid Prime\" series, Sakamoto's approach with gameplay was different, particularly for the story \"Other M\" intended to tell. Sakamoto's intent was to create a game with \"controls as simple as those of a NES game\", so it would appeal to modern players. Team Ninja agreed with that approach, as they felt control schemes with excessive buttons were possibly turning players off the action genre, and tried to make the game employ only the Wii Remote, without resorting to the Nunchuk. The development team also tried to use the simpler controls to provide flashy action, with varied special attacks that would need few button inputs to be executed. Sakamoto focused on 2D-like gameplay because he considered it more \"comfortable\" for audiences, particularly during shifts from gameplay to cutscenes, as he thought 2D \"[doesn't] have the same distractions when you want to give them story sequences\". While the developers felt no need to integrate everything from the \"Prime\" series as they were games with different concepts, a few of the elements that \"made those games unique\" were implemented into \"Other M\", such as the \"immersive sight\" of the first-person mode. When questioned if \"Other M\" would be too similar to \"Ninja Gaiden\", Hayashi responded that while the new game will feature heavy action-based sequences, there will still be the exploration-based sequences characteristic of other \"Metroid\" games. Sakamoto said that \"Other M\"'s story progression was in the same manner as \"Metroid Fusion\", and stated that the collaboration between Nintendo and Team Ninja is \"unlike anything that's ever been done at Nintendo; it's more than just a collaborative effort — it's one group working toward a common goal\".\n\nBefore \"Other M\"s development, Sakamoto did not think too much about \"what kind of person Samus Aran was and how she thinks and her personality\", particularly because the games tried to depict Samus as a mysterious person. Sakamoto and Team Ninja put much focus on backstory in the game to present Samus as an \"appealing human character\", something important for future installments, as players would get further interest in Samus' adventures. Hayashi said that one of the development team's goals was to have the player \"connect with Samus as the story and action develops\". Sakamoto also said the game would \"bring everyone up to the same level of understanding in the Metroid universe\", and would not only introduce the series to new players but also create new challenges for fans. The chronological setting between \"Super Metroid\" and \"Metroid Fusion\" was chosen because Sakamoto considered the period \"so critical that without addressing it, we wouldn't be able to make new games that show Samus' adventures that take place after the events of \"Metroid Fusion\"\".\n\nD-Rockets, a company specialized in CG animation for video games and commercials, was brought into the project for its in-game cinematics on Team Ninja productions. Director Ryuji Kitaura said when Nintendo gave him the instructions, he considered the work \"overwhelming\" - most of D-Rockets work only involved high-quality CG, while Nintendo aimed to \"make the parts of the game that the player controls the same quality as the cinematics, in order to make them seamless\" and Sakamoto intended to cutscenes to give emotional depth to Samus. Team Ninja and D-Rockets worked separately most of the time, and only started to collaborate about a year into production, to make sure the in-game action and the cutscenes had the same style. Over 300 storyboards which took six months to be completed, and ten teams were employed on the development of cutscenes. For increased realism, professional camera operators helped with the motion capture, and Samus' face had a more detailed frame to make expressions more lifelike. Kitaura tried to include more scenes with Samus outside her powered armor, to illustrate \"the human, weak side of Samus, her expressions and gesture\", but Sakamoto convinced him otherwise with a declaration that the Power Suit acts as a shield for both enemy attacks and the reveal of her emotions. \"Other M\" uses a dual-layer disc due to extensive usage of cinematics in the game.\n\nKuniaki Haishima composed the soundtrack of \"Other M\". The team hired Haishima to write the music because the producers felt he could \"tell the story with melodies\" and \"powerfully [helped] us depict Samus' feelings and emotions\". Parts of the soundtrack were recorded and performed by Arigat-Orchestra in Tokyo and Asian Philharmonic Orchestra in Beijing. Furthermore, a \"piece of piano music\" was made by a member of staff at Sakamoto's request.\n\nFor the game's voice acting, Jessica Martin was cast to play Samus in the English version of \"Other M\", and said that recording sessions took over a year which resulted in the voice cast being required to record lines with storyboards and unfinished cutscenes as basis. Adam Malkovich was voiced by Dave Elvin; while Mike McGillicuty provided the voice of Anthony Higgs. In Japanese, voice actors Ai Kobayashi, Rikiya Koyama, Kenji Nomura and Shizuka Itō provided the voices of Samus, Adam, Anthony and MB respectively. Seattle-based Bad Animals Studio and Ginza-based Onkio Haus recorded voice-overs in English and Japanese languages respectively.\n\n\"Metroid: Other M\" was first announced by Nintendo of America president and CEO Reggie Fils-Aimé and a trailer was briefly shown during the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2009. Fils-Aimé stated that \"Metroid: Other M\" would \"take you deeper into Samus' story\", and also noted that the game would be a return to the style of the traditional series as opposed to the \"Metroid Prime\" series, though the game would have a \"harder edge\". On E3 2010, the game had a playable demo, which GameTrailers picked as Best Wii Game and Action/Adventure Game of the expo, and was nominated for Game of the Show. Previews of \"Other M\" were also featured in the 2010 editions of Game Developers Conference and Nintendo Media Summit. Fils-Aimé expected global sales of between 1.5 and 2 million units.\n\nThe game was released in North America on August 31, 2010. It had an original release date of June 27, 2010, but it was postponed by two months, as the high standards of the development team got them behind the completion schedule. In other territories, \"Other M\" was released September 2 in Japan and Australia, and one day later in Europe, where its release was preceded by a large marketing campaign with television spots, trailers at theaters, and online ads. GameStop began providing an art folio for purchasers who pre-ordered the game containing 16 individual high-quality cards; the cards feature concept artwork, in-game screenshots, and a description from Samus' perspective. Two strategy guide books were published in Japan: by Koei Tecmo on September 15, 2010, and by Shogakukan on September 17.\n\n\"Other M\" was later re-released on the Wii U's Nintendo eShop, in Japan on March 17, 2016, in Europe on March 31, and in North America on December 8.\n\nAfter the release of \"Metroid: Other M\", it was reported to have a bug where the door in Sector 3 is permanently locked and impassable, preventing players from continuing. Nintendo revealed that a bug is triggered when the player backtracks to the room within Sector 3 where they have previously obtained the Ice Beam. The company has set up a program that allows players affected by the bug to send in an SD card or their Wii console with their save files to be repaired. \n\nAs \"Other M\" uses a dual-layer disc, Nintendo has stated that some Wii consoles may have difficulty reading data off a large-capacity medium due to a contaminated laser lens of an optical disc drive.\n\n\"Metroid: Other M\" received \"generally favorable reviews\", according to a review aggregator website Metacritic. GameSpot's Tom McShea praised the control scheme and combat system as \"unique and responsive\", and wrote that the search for secrets was \"very rewarding\". Craig Harris of IGN called the gameplay \"a really impressive evolution of the old-school \"Metroid\" design\", and GameTrailers described it as \"a nice compromise between satisfying fans and opening up the series for a wider audience\". In a review for an Australian television series \"Good Game\", Stephanie Bendixsen enjoyed the game's atmosphere, while Steven O'Donnell remarked on how the developers \"kept so simple, and yet it works so well.\" The writers from \"Famitsu\" also praised the game for the Sense Move technique and the switch between perspectives. The graphics were also well received. Christian Donlan of \"Eurogamer\" exclaimed that \"Other M\" bears graphical similarities to \"Metroid Prime\" which \"tend to come across as nicely-built video game levels at best\". Harris wrote that while the graphics are not being on par with the \"Prime\" series, it was still regarded as one of the best-looking games on the Wii. Tom Hoggins of \"The Daily Telegraph\" described the environments as \"lush and detailed\", and said they helped \"capturing the ethos of old-school \"Metroid\"\". Harris also praised the game's \"storytelling with motion-captured acting and voice-over\", and \"Wired\"s Chris Kohler applauded cutscenes \"with slick graphic effects\". The music was praised as atmospheric and faithful to the franchise, though McShea felt they were \"more like outtakes from older entries than a moody new soundtrack\".\n\nComplaints were raised on the first-person perspective, with Ryan Scott of \"GameSpy\" considered it a \"weird forced handicap\". Phil Kollar of \"Game Informer\" expressed disappointment that the game prevents the player from moving while in first person view. \"The A.V. Club\" David Wolinsky found the pixel hunting sequences irritating, while \"Official Nintendo Magazine\" Chris Scullion similarly described them as the \"only truly horrible moments\" in the game. Critics responded poorly to the mechanic of power-up restriction; they derided it as a deviation from the series' tradition of item discovery, and even more strongly criticized it as nonsensical and condescending in terms of story. GamesRadar derided the game's linearity in comparison with \"Metroid Fusion\", a game which took a similar approach. The website also found the enemies to be \"a largely unimpressive collection\", a gripe which \"Edge\" also had; it wrote that \"truly testing enemies are only found in the last stretch\". \"Other M\"s short length was criticized by reviewers, by critics such as GameTrailers, which writes that the bonuses such as art galleries were not stimulating enough to entice replay value.\n\nHeavy criticism was directed toward the script, dialogue, and cutscene length. McShea felt that the unskippable cutscenes and \"the overabundance of story in \"Other M\" were a negative deviation from \"Metroid\" tradition\". Kollar states that they \"often run as long as 15 minutes, exhausting players with repetition of obvious plot points and overwrought dialogue as mature and interesting as a teenager’s diary\". Justin Haywald of \"1UP.com\" complained that as the game progresses \"instead of getting more of the things that work , you get more of the things you don't care about \". Donlan notes that the plot is considered as \"the future's dumbest soap opera\". Wolinsky echoes the misgivings about Samus' immaturity, petulant behavior, and misguided loyalty. Tae K. Kim of \"GamePro\" writes that while the story and Samus' monologues did not compel them, \"it helped contextualize her entire existence\" which developed the character to \"an actual human being who's using the vastness of space to try and put some distance between herself and the past\". Contrarily, Haywald found the portrayal \"lifeless and boring\" and \"nonsensical\". G4tv's Abbie Heppe was critical on Samus's portrayal; she wrote that Samus \"cannot possibly wield the amount of power she possesses unless directed to by a man\", and found that her anxiety attack cannot be reconciled with her previous portrayals. In \"Zero Punctuation\", Ben \"Yahtzee\" Croshaw derided the game's story as a \"bloated, cancerous mass turning into a shrieking mimsy in a submissive relationship with a bellend in a fancy cap.\" Croshaw also states that the gameplay is \"infinitely stronger in that it's merely bad.\"\n\nIn a feature for \"1UP.com\", Jeremy Parish states that many \"Metroid\" fans were disappointed by the game's story, power-up restrictions and its \"awkward handling of its leading lady\". Video game scholar Luke Arnott argued that players were dissatisfied with \"Other M\" because it did not consistently balance gameplay constraints with player agency, and because it failed at what he calls “imperative” storytelling. Arnott suggested that studying how games like \"Other M\" create meaning in virtual spaces may help design better games and situate them within wider theories of postmodern subjectivity. Clyde Mandelin of \"Legends of Localization\" noted that the game received mixed-to-positive reactions from Japanese fans. \"Kotaku\"s Luke Plunkett wrote that Team Ninja was blamed by \"many people\" for the game's story; Hayashi later clarified that Sakamoto wrote the story himself. Nintendo Treehouse producer Nate Bihldorff stated that the scene depicting Samus' encounter with Ridley \"is not a sign of weakness, but of strength. People who call out that scene as anything but empowering are kind of missing the point\". He added that Samus' story \"has largely been a matter of individual perception, especially in the US, where people haven't read any of the official manga related to her childhood.\"\n\n\"Metroid: Other M\" was the third best-selling video game in Japan during its week of release with 45,398 copies sold, ranking it behind \"Wii Party\" and \"\". An additional 11,239 copies were sold the following week. It was also the ninth best-selling game in North America during September 2010, with 173,000 copies sold. In the United Kingdom, the game failed to make the top 10 and placed 12th in its first week. In November 2010, Fils-Aimé stated that the game is \"getting close to half a million\" copies sold in the United States.\n\n\"Other M\" received honors and distinctions from various gaming sites and publications. In IGN's Best of 2010 Awards, the game received the award for Coolest Atmosphere. It was also nominated for Best Story award, but lost to \"Epic Mickey\". \"Wired\" listed it 12th on its list of the twenty best games of the year. Conversely, \"Entertainment Weekly\" chose the game as the second worst of 2010. GamesRadar chose \"Other M\" as the \"mangled makeover\" of 2010, writing that it painted Samus as \"an unsure, insecure woman who desperately wants the approval of her former (male) commanding officer.\" \"Game Informer\" listed Samus first on their list of the Top 10 Dorks of 2010 due to her \"lame backstory\", and placed the game third on their Top 10 Disappointments of 2010 list, ranking behind \"studio closures, layoffs, [and] restructurings\" and the \"Infinity Ward debacle\".\n\nSince its release, elements of \"Metroid: Other M\" have appeared in other games. The Geothermal Power Plant is featured as a playable stage in \"\", a fighting game developed for the Nintendo 3DS by Team Ninja. The stage features Ridley as a stage hazard, while Samus appears as an assist character in the Morph Ball form, who will drop a Power Bomb that switches the combatants' location when a sound is made in the microphone. Yosuke Hayashi confirmed that Samus would not be featured as a playable character in \"Dead or Alive: Dimensions\", stating that \"it would be better to let her focus on her job rather than kicking everyone's butt in .\" The Pyrosphere also appears as a stage in \"Super Smash Bros. for Wii U\", an entry in the \"Super Smash Bros.\" series.\n\n"}
{"id": "21843029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21843029", "title": "Multi-simulation coordinator", "text": "Multi-simulation coordinator\n\nMUSIC (Multi-Simulation Coordinator) is software developed and released by the INCF and Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) School of Computer Science and Communication in Stockholm, Sweden. MUSIC is designed for interconnecting\nlarge scale neuronal network simulators, either with each other or with other\ntools. It allows spike events and continuous time series to be communicated between such applications in a cluster computer. The typical usage cases are connecting models developed for different simulators and connecting a parallel simulator to a post-processing tool.\n\nMUSIC provides a standardized software interface (API) on top of the message-passing interface (MPI) for communication among parallel applications for large-scale computational neuroscience simulations. It enables the transfer of massive amounts of event information and continuous values from one parallel application to another, including those using different data allocation strategies. In the design of the standard interface, care was taken to allow easy adaptation of existing simulators and to permit third-party development and community-sharing of reusable and interoperable software tools for parallel processing. Three simulators currently have MUSIC interfaces: Moose, NEURON and NEST.\n\nThe MUSIC software library and its documentation are publicly available through the INCF Software Center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6939974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6939974", "title": "Naiad (comics)", "text": "Naiad (comics)\n\nNaiad is a fictional water elemental published by DC Comics. She first appeared in \"Firestorm, the Nuclear Man\" vol. 2 #90 (October 1989), during the four part \"Elemental War\" storyline that ran to issue #93, and was created by John Ostrander and Tom Mandrake.\n\nMai Miyazaki was a Japanese environmentalist who was murdered by operatives of the Shogun Oil Company. While protesting at a Shogun Oil drilling rig in the sea off the coast of Alaska, she was set on fire by a Shogun Oil employee under orders from his superior. The employee deliberately fires a flare gun into the oil spill surrounding her dingy. Mai died but was reborn as the Water Elemental Naiad. She destroys the drilling rig but oil and other chemicals which spill into the waters poison her, and drive her mad. Enraged and out of control Naiad attacks Firestorm because he is the incarnation of fire, and the last thing she remembers is death by fire. \n\nSwamp Thing begins looking for Firestorm (Ronnie Raymond/Mikhail Arkadin) because his attempts to terraform and heal an African desert valley which ended up mutating and scarring the \"Green\". Firestorm is able to temporarily calm a mindless Naiad and a discorporate Red Tornado, both of whom were being pushed to attack humanity due to pain being caused them by poisons in the air and water, they believed the only way to \"heal the planet\" was by eliminating humanity. Naiad and the Red Tornado discover that \"no elemental can attack another elemental directly\", so they use earth to bury Firestorm underwater and head for Japan intending to terminate the island nation's entire population. \n\nA drowning Firestorm is apparently contacted in a vision by \"'Maya\" the \"Earth Mother\" who tells him that she created the \"Four Elementals\" to both guard her body and inspire mankind. She tells him that the job of an Elemental is to force mankind to evolve and leave their homeworld, she supports the actions of Naiad and the Red Tornado. Firestorm is saved from drowning by the Swamp Thing, according to Swamp Thing Firestorm's transmutation powers weaken the cellular makeup of matter, making it unstable. So at the Swamp Thing's request he burns the blighted plant life he created in an African valley. Swamp Thing and Firestorm head to Tokyo intent on stopping their fellow elementals. \n\nThe attack on Tokyo by Naiad and Red Tornado is halted by Swamp Thing forming a shield over the city out of his body. Firestorm increases his body mass by absorbing heat and flames until he is the same expanded size as the other three elementals. During a pause in the battle he recounts his meeting with Maya to the other elementals. Naiad agrees to forgo her attack and leaves, and Firestorm creates a new corporeal body for the Red Tornado. \n\nLater, Naiad attempted to get revenge on Shogun Oil, but was stopped by Superman and the Spectre. As Naiad, Mai Miyazaki is the elemental of water for the planet Earth. The Parliament of Waves, is a group made up of older Water Elementals. The five Elemental Parliaments (Trees, Waves, Stone, Flames, Vapors) were destroyed by a Spectre level being called The Word. Naiad shares the title of \"Elemental\" with Firestorm the elemental of (fire), Red Tornado the elemental of (air), and Swamp Thing the elemental of (plants).\n\nShe also appeared in Aquaman where she fought an intermediate fire elemental named Corona. Corona is the mother of Aquaman's son Koryak, and apparently became the Earth's fire elemental while Martin Stein was traveling through outer space.\n\nShe recently appeared during the \"Brightest Day\" crossover event, where she was one of the metahumans driven insane by Alan Scott's Starheart powers. She attempted to destroy Gotham City using massive tidal wave, but was defeated and knocked unconscious by the duo of Batman II and Supergirl.\n\nIn the \"Watchmen\" sequel \"Doomsday Clock,\" Naiad is listed as a member of Japan's superhero team called Big Monster Action.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46174", "title": "National Institutes of Health", "text": "National Institutes of Health\n\nThe National Institutes of Health (NIH) (; each letter separately) is the primary agency of the United States government responsible for biomedical and public health research. It was founded in the late 1870s and is now part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The majority of NIH facilities are located in Bethesda, Maryland. The NIH conducts its own scientific research through its Intramural Research Program (IRP) and provides major biomedical research funding to non-NIH research facilities through its Extramural Research Program.\n\n, the IRP had 1,200 principal investigators and more than 4,000 postdoctoral fellows in basic, translational, and clinical research, being the largest biomedical research institution in the world, while, as of 2003, the extramural arm provided 28% of biomedical research funding spent annually in the U.S., or about US$26.4 billion.\n\nThe NIH comprises 27 separate institutes and centers of different biomedical disciplines and is responsible for many scientific accomplishments, including the discovery of fluoride to prevent tooth decay, the use of lithium to manage bipolar disorder, and the creation of vaccines against hepatitis, \"Haemophilus influenzae\" (HIB), and human papillomavirus (HPV).\n\nNIH's roots extend back to the Marine Hospital Service in the late 1790s that provided medical relief to sick and disabled men in the U.S. Navy. By 1870, a network of marine hospitals had developed and was placed under the charge of a medical officer within the Bureau of the Treasury Department. In the late 1870s, Congress allocated funds to investigate the causes of epidemics like cholera and yellow fever, and it created the National Board of Health, making medical research an official government initiative.\nIn 1887, a laboratory for the study of bacteria, the Hygienic Laboratory, was established at the Marine Hospital in New York. In the early 1900s, Congress began appropriating funds for the Marine Hospital Service. By 1922, this organization changed its name to Public Health Services and established a Special Cancer Investigations laboratory at Harvard Medical School. This marked the beginning of a partnership with universities. In 1930, the Hygienic Laboratory was re-designated as the National Institute of Health by the Ransdell Act, and was given $750,000 to construct two NIH buildings. Over the next few decades, Congress would increase funding tremendously to the NIH, and various institutes and centers within the NIH were created for specific research programs. In 1944, the Public Health Service Act was approved, and the National Cancer Institute became a division of NIH. In 1948, the name changed from National Institute of Health to National Institutes of Health.\n\nIn the 1960s, virologist and cancer researcher Chester M. Southam injected HeLa cancer cells into patients at the Jewish Chronic Disease Hospital. When three doctors resigned after refusing to inject patients without their consent, the experiment gained considerable media attention. The NIH was a major source of funding for Southam’s research and had required all research involving human subjects to obtain their consent prior to any experimentation. Upon investigating all of their grantee institutions, the NIH discovered that the majority of them did not protect the rights of human subjects. From then on, the NIH has required all grantee institutions to approve any research proposals involving human experimentation with review boards.\n\nIn 1967, the Division of Regional Medical Programs was created to administer grants for research for heart disease, cancer, and strokes. That same year, the NIH director lobbied the White House for increased federal funding in order to increase research and the speed with which health benefits could be brought to the people. An advisory committee was formed to oversee further development of the NIH and its research programs. By 1971 cancer research was in full force and President Nixon signed the National Cancer Act, initiating a National Cancer Program, President's Cancer Panel, National Cancer Advisory Board, and 15 new research, training, and demonstration centers.\n\nFunding for the NIH has often been a source of contention in Congress, serving as a proxy for the political currents of the time. In 1992, the NIH encompassed nearly 1 percent of the federal government's operating budget and controlled more than 50 percent of all funding for health research, and 85 percent of all funding for health studies in universities. While government funding for research in other disciplines has been increasing at a rate similar to inflation since the 1970s, research funding for the NIH nearly tripled through the 1990s and early 2000s, but has remained relatively stagnant since then.\n\nBy the 1990s, the NIH committee focus had shifted to DNA research, and launched the Human Genome Project.\n\n\nIntramural research is primarily conducted at the main campus in Bethesda, Maryland and Rockville, Maryland, and the surrounding communities.\n\nThe Bayview Campus in Baltimore, Maryland houses the research programs of the National Institute on Aging, National Institute on Drug Abuse, and National Human Genome Research Institute with nearly 1,000 scientists and support staff. The Frederick National Laboratory in Frederick, MD and the nearby Riverside Research Park, houses many components of the National Cancer Institute, including the Center for Cancer Research, Office of Scientific Operations, Management Operations Support Branch, the division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics and the division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis.\n\nThe National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences is located in the Research Triangle region of North Carolina.\n\nOther ICs have satellite locations in addition to operations at the main campus. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases maintains its Rocky Mountain Labs in Hamilton, Montana, with an emphasis on BSL3 and BSL4 laboratory work. NIDKK operates the Phoenix Epidemiology and Clinical Research Branch in Phoenix, AZ.\n\nAs of 2017, 153 scientists receiving financial support from the NIH have been awarded a Nobel Prize and 195 have been awarded a Lasker Award.\n\nNIH devotes 10% of its funding to research within its own facilities (intramural research). The institution gives 80% of its funding in research grants to extramural (outside) researchers. Of this extramural funding, a certain percentage (2.8% in 2014) must be granted to small businesses under the SBIR/STTR program. The extramural funding consists of about 50,000 grants to more than 325,000 researchers at more than 3000 institutions. , NIH spent (not including temporary funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009) on clinical research, on genetics-related research, on prevention research, on cancer, and on biotechnology.\n\nIn 2008 a Congressional mandate called for investigators funded by the NIH to submit an electronic version of their final manuscripts to the National Library of Medicine's research repository, PubMed Central (PMC), no later than 12 months after the official date of publication. The NIH Public Access Policy was the first public access mandate for a U.S. public funding agency.\n\nOn February 13, 2012, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) announced a new group of individuals assigned to research pain. This committee is composed of researchers from different organizations and will focus to \"coordinate pain research activities across the federal government with the goals of stimulating pain research collaboration… and providing an important avenue for public involvement\" (\"Members of new,\" 2012). With a committee such as this research will not be conducted by each individual organization or person but instead a collaborating group which will increase the information available. With this hopefully more pain management will be available including techniques for arthritis sufferers.\n\nIn 2000, the Joint Economic Committee of Congress reported NIH research, which was funded at $16 billion a year in 2000, that some econometric studies had given a rate of return of 25 to 40 percent per year by reducing the economic cost of illness in the US. It found that of the 21 drugs with the highest therapeutic impact on society introduced between 1965 and 1992, public funding was \"instrumental\" for 15. As of 2011 NIH-supported research helped to discover 153 new FDA-approved drugs, vaccines, and new indications for drugs in the 40 years prior. One study found NIH funding aided either directly or indirectly in developing the drugs or drug targets for all of the 210 FDA-approved drugs from 2010 to 2016. In 2015, Pierre Azoulay et al. estimated $10 million invested in research generated two to three new patents.\n\nSince its inception, the NIH intramural research program has been a source of many pivotal scientific and medical discoveries. Some of these include:\n\nIn September 2006, the NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research started a contract for the NIH Toolbox for the Assessment of Neurological and Behavioral Function to develop a set of state-of-the-art measurement tools to enhance collection of data in large cohort studies. Scientists from more than 100 institutions nationwide contributed. In September 2012, the NIH Toolbox was rolled out to the research community. NIH Toolbox assessments are based, where possible, on Item Response Theory and adapted for testing by computer.\n\nTo allocate funds, the NIH must first obtain its budget from Congress. This process begins with institute and center (IC) leaders collaborating with scientists to determine the most important and promising research areas within their fields. IC leaders discuss research areas with NIH management who then develops a budget request for continuing projects, new research proposals, and new initiatives from the Director. NIH submits its budget request to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and the HHS considers this request as a portion of its budget. Many adjustments and appeals occur between NIH and HHS before the agency submits NIH's budget request to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). OMB determines what amounts and research areas are approved for incorporation into the President's final budget. The President then sends NIH's budget request to Congress in February for the next fiscal year's allocations. The House and Senate Appropriations Subcommittees deliberate and by fall, Congress usually appropriates funding. This process takes approximately 18 months before the NIH can allocate any actual funds.\n\nOver the last century, the responsibility to allocate funding has shifted from the OD and Advisory Committee to the individual ICs and Congress increasingly set apart funding for particular causes. In the 1970s, Congress began to earmark funds specifically for cancer research, and in the 1980s there was a significant amount allocated for AIDS/HIV research.\n\nFunding for the NIH has often been a source of contention in Congress, serving as a proxy for the political currents of the time. During the 1980s, President Reagan repeatedly tried to cut funding for research, only to see Congress partly restore funding. The political contention over NIH funding slowed the nation's response to the AIDS epidemic; while AIDS was reported in newspaper articles from 1981, no funding was provided for research on the disease. In 1984 National Cancer Institute scientists found implications that \"variants of a human cancer virus called HTLV-III are the primary cause of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS),\" a new epidemic that gripped the nation.\nIn 1992, the NIH encompassed nearly 1 percent of the federal government's operating budget and controlled more than 50 percent of all funding for health research and 85 percent of all funding for health studies in universities. From 1993 to 2001 the NIH budget doubled. Since then, funding essentially remained flat, and during the decade following the financial crisis, the NIH budget struggled to keep up with inflation.\n\nIn 1999 Congress increased the NIH's budget by $2.3 billion to $17.2 billion in 2000. In 2009 Congress again increased the NIH budget to $31 billion in 2010. In March 2017, President Trump proposed to cut the 2018 budget by 18.3%, or about $5.8 billion to $25.9 billion.\n\nResearchers at universities or other institutions outside of NIH can apply for research project grants (RPGs) from the NIH. There are numerous funding mechanisms for different project types (e.g., basic research, clinical research etc.) and career stages (e.g., early career, postdoc fellowships etc.). The NIH regularly issues \"requests for applications\" (RFAs), e.g., on timely medical problems (such as Zika virus research in early 2016). In addition, researchers can apply for \"investigator-initiated grants\" whose subject is determined by the scientist.\n\nThe total number of applicants has increased substantially, from about 60,000 investigators who had applied during the period from 1999 to 2003 to slightly less than 90,000 in who had applied during the period from 2011 to 2015. Due to this, the \"cumulative investigator rate,\" that is, the likelihood that unique investigators are funded over a 5-year window, has declined from 43% to 31%.\n\nR01 grants are the most common funding mechanism and include investigator-initiated projects. The roughly 27,000 to 29,000 R01 applications had a funding success of 17-19% during 2012 though 2014. Similarly, the 13,000 to 14,000 R21 applications had a funding success of 13-14% during the same period. In FY 2016, the total number of grant applications received by the NIH was 54,220, with approximately 19% being awarded funding. Institutes have varying funding rates. The National Cancer Institute awarded funding to 12% of applicants, while the National Institute for General Medical Science awarded funding to 30% of applicants.\n\nNIH employs five broad decision criteria in its funding policy. First, ensure the highest quality of scientific research by employing an arduous peer review process. Second, seize opportunities that have the greatest potential to yield new knowledge and that will lead to better prevention and treatment of disease. Third, maintain a diverse research portfolio in order to capitalize on major discoveries in a variety of fields such as cell biology, genetics, physics, engineering, and computer science. Fourth, address public health needs according to the disease burden (e.g., prevalence and mortality). And fifth, construct and support the scientific infrastructure (e.g., well-equipped laboratories and safe research facilities) necessary to conduct research.\n\nAdvisory committee members advise the Institute on policy and procedures affecting the external research programs and provide a second level of review for all grant and cooperative agreement applications considered by the Institute for funding.\n\nIn 2014, it was announced that the NIH is directing scientists to perform their experiments with both female and male animals, or cells derived from females as well as males if they are studying cell cultures, and that the NIH would take the balance of each study design into consideration when awarding grants. The announcement also stated that this rule would probably not apply when studying sex-specific diseases (for example, ovarian or testicular cancer).\n\nWhen a government shutdown occurs, the NIH continues to treat people who are already enrolled in clinical trials, but does not start any new clinical trials and does not admit new patients who are not already enrolled in a clinical trial, except for the most critically ill, as determined by the NIH Director.\n\nOne of the goals of the NIH is to \"expand the base in medical and associated sciences in order to ensure a continued high return on the public investment in research.\" Taxpayer dollars funding NIH are from the taxpayers, making them the primary beneficiaries of advances in research. Thus, the general public is a key stakeholder in the decisions resulting from the NIH funding policy. However, some in the general public do not feel their interests are being represented, and individuals have formed patient advocacy groups to represent their own interests.\n\nImportant stakeholders of the NIH funding policy include researchers and scientists. Extramural researchers differ from intramural researchers in that they are not employed by the NIH but may apply for funding. Throughout the history of the NIH, the amount of funding received has increased, but the proportion to each IC remains relatively constant. The individual ICs then decide who will receive the grant money and how much will be allotted.\n\nPolicy changes on who receives funding significantly affects researchers. For example, the NIH has recently attempted to approve more first-time NIH R01 applicants, or the research grant applications of young scientists. To encourage the participation of young scientists, the application process has been shortened and made easier. In addition, first-time applicants are being offered more funding for their research grants than those who have received grants in the past.\n\nIn 2011 and 2012, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General published a series of audit reports revealing that throughout the fiscal years 2000–2010, institutes under the aegis of the NIH did not comply with the time and amount requirements specified in appropriations statutes, in awarding federal contracts to commercial partners, committing the federal government to tens of millions of dollars of expenditure ahead of appropriation of funds from Congress.\n\nThe NIH is composed of 27 separate institutes and centers (ICs) that conduct and coordinate research across different disciplines of biomedical science. These are:\n\n\n\nIn addition, the National Center for Research Resources operated from April 13, 1962 to December 23, 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10604818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10604818", "title": "Odotheus", "text": "Odotheus\n\nOdotheus (in Zosimus \"Aedotheus\") was a Greuthungi king who in 386 led an incursion into the Roman Empire. He was defeated and killed by the Roman general Promotus. His surviving people settled in Phrygia.\n\nAfter the major Gothic entry into the Roman Empire in 376, there still remained substantial numbers of Goths in several kingdoms north and east of the lower Danube. In the year 386 the king Odotheus led his people into the Empire, possibly fleeing Hunnic hegemony, but Heather (1996:103) disputes this.\nOdotheus was brought to battle and killed by the general Promotus.\nZosimus gives two versions (4.35 and 4.38-9), generally thought to be of the same story; the second version calls them \"Grothingi\" and speaks of a betrayal (or entrapment) by Promotus.\nThe survivors of his people were settled in Phrygia; some were drafted into the Army and some became agricultural labourers.\n\nIn 399, Tribigild, a Gothic commander in Roman service who led a unit of these Phrygian survivors of Odotheus' kingdom, rose in revolt. Michael Kulikowski suggests the Goths of Tribigild were in fact survivors of the massacres in Asia Minor of 378/9, after the Battle of Adrianople. Gainas, another Gothic general sent to suppress him, suborned Tribigild's revolt for his own purposes. After some initial successes, Gainas was suppressed and fled north of the Danube, only to be killed by the Hunnic chieftain Uldin. Thus perished many of Odotheus' remaining people; the fate of the rest in Phrygia is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "22065113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22065113", "title": "P. Shanmugam", "text": "P. Shanmugam\n\nP. Shanmugham (March 25, 1927 – February 2, 2013) (Born to Panchanatha Mudaliyar - Gowri) was the Chief Minister of the Union Territory of Puducherry. He served from March 22, 2000 to October 27, 2001.\n\nA staunch loyalist of the Nehru-Gandhi family, he was in politics since 1950. He was the Leader of the Opposition between 1969 and 1973 when the DMK formed the government. He represented Puducherry in the Lok Sabha for three consecutive terms from 1980 and was elected to Puducherry Assembly thrice. He held the post of Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee for about 33 years. He played key role in the formation of many governments in the Union Territory.\n"}
{"id": "49953823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49953823", "title": "Papier-mache offering shops in Hong Kong", "text": "Papier-mache offering shops in Hong Kong\n\nTraditional papier-mache offering shops in Hong Kong sell papier-mache offering items for sacred purposes and for festival-celebration purposes, the popularity started since the 1940s. Nowadays, the demand of papier sacred products are lowering and thus papier-mache shops and the entire papier-mache industry are facing declination.\n\nPapier-mache offering shops started popping up in Hong Kong since 1940. From 1940, there were high demand of papier maches and the papier-mache industry was prosperous, shops were basically ran by the whole family that they manufactured and sold the papier-mache products all by their own. In the 1950s, the Communist Party in China started to simplify funeral services through education, persuasion and step-by-step measures, following to the cultural revolution started from 1960, the Communist Party promoted simplism, they simplified traditional cultures and most of the traditional funeral rites were being dissuaded in mainland. This led to the flocking in of mainland papier-mache shop-owners to Hong Kong to continue their business. After 1980, Hong Kong transformed into an International Financial Centre which promoted knowledge-based economy. People were not willing to work in papier-mache sectors, this gradually led to the declination of papier-mache industry in Hong Kong. Nowadays in Hong Kong, not only the demand of papier-mache products is low, but over one-ninth of papier-mache products sold by local papier-mache offering shops are also imported from the mainland China, local papier-mache offering shops doing their own production are not common nowadays.\n\nThere are generally two types of usage of papier-mache products, festival papier-mache for celebration and for funeral use. Papier-mache offering shops target their customers occasionally, they provided various papier-products according to different festivals and occasions. For people who consecrate offerings, most of them are Taoism and Buddhism.\n\nIn Chinese New Year, shops provide paper money, joss sticks, Fai Chun and lighted red candles for good luck inscriptions. Paper offerings are in demand at Ghost Festival, various offerings such as incenses, joss paper accessories, altar candles, paper-mache form of material items (i.e. golds, clothes, bank notes) or other goods for the visiting spirits of ancestors, those all have a strong footing in paper offerings market. Candles in wooden bowls are placed on street corners or along rivers to guide wandering spirits to the feasts prepared for them. Shops provide joss paper,accessories paper and incense, selling to the public to sacrifice their ancestors in Qingming Festival. In the Mid-Autumn Festival and Lantern Festival, shops sell candles and paper lanterns, which are used for celebration Families are willing to buy those stuff for children in the Mid-Autumn Festival.\n\nChinese funeral (Taoist funeral), is the occasion which uses the paper offerings most. Paper horse and paper goat is a must in the funeral ceremony. Those offerings are used for releasing souls from purgatory, fulfilling the dead daily needs in the underworld, such as paper currency, clothes, food, houses, and transports.Nowadays, products of paper offerings for funerals are near life size , for example, TV, iPhone or other electronic products are one of the paper mache offerings. This is a mixture of modern and ancient civilization. In this case, the target customers are people who held the Taoism funeral.\n\nPapier-mache offering shops with long history in Hong Kong are mostly clustered together in Queen's Road West and Queen’s Road Central. Bo Wah Paper Craft (寶華紮作) and Chau Zi Paper Craft (秋記紮作) are two well-known papier-mache offering shops because of their long history.\n\nBo Wah Paper Craft (寶華紮作) is established in 1963 and located in Sham Shui Po. The owner used to make traditional papier-mache like lion head for Chinese New Year, but Au Yeung Bing Chi, the son of the owner, have changed the style of papier-mache from traditional to modish in order to cater for the modern society and to create a new trend. Papier-mache can be customized in Bo Wah, creative papier-mache products such as Stormtrooper in Star Wars and specific bones of human skeleton are available in the shop.\n\nChau Zi Paper Craft (秋記紮作), established in 1930 and located in Central, is one of the oldest papier-mache shops in Hong Kong. The owner Chan Kui Chau is a well-known Hong Kong papier-mache maker who made traditional papier-mache products such as trotting horse lamp. Chau Zi attracts tourists from all over the world coming to visit, order and explore traditional Chinese papier-mache products.\n\nPapier-mache is a tradition among Asia, besides China and Hong Kong people, papier-mache offering shops are even being set-up in Japan, Vietnam and Malaysia with their unique cultures.\n\nPeople would make the papier mache by themselves since Tang dynasty. Yet, due to the economic development, people started to set up shops afterwards. Unlike Hong Kong, the paper mache shops in Japan sells traditional paper products like orizuru (Japanese paper crane) , omamori and Japanese traditional dolls for bowing and making wishes in the shrine and temples.\n\nIn Vietnam, the Hàng Mã Street located in Hanoi, has been selling paper goods for more than 500 years.\n\nShops are even set up in Western countries like the USA or United Kingdom by Chinese immigrant. For example, Mulberry Street in America, also known as Chinatown, there are also papier-mache selling shops which are similar with those in Hong Kong. They serve the Chinese who are living there to celebrate Chinese festivals.\n\nPapier-mache shops in Hong Kong are usually designed in traditional Chinese style without fancy decoration. The layout seems to be disorganised but the goods are arranged orderly. A large tablet placed on top of the door with the name of the shop written in golden colour, yellow colour or red colour, around with some Chinese lanterns for decoration. Some shelves are put outside the shops for displaying products. For the setting, some simple closets are placed all around the shop with variety of products on it. A glass case table forms a corner for the shop owner. Generally there are tables placed in the middle of the shop, with a lot of package of foss paper and papier-mache putting on them for ancestor worship, which sorted out by plastic baskets or cartons. The 3D papier-maches are wrapped in plastic bags and being hanged inside the shop. During some traditional Chinese festivals such as the mid-autumn festival, the festive products will also be wrapped in plastic bags and being hanged outside the shop to attract customers.\n"}
{"id": "38052629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38052629", "title": "Pirate (sexual slang)", "text": "Pirate (sexual slang)\n\nPirate has multiple meanings in sexual slang. Several of them emerged in the 20th century and play off the tradition that pirates took whatever they wanted, including sex, which was \"seen as a conquest.\"\n\nThe most common usage is Australian slang for a man searching around for casual sex, as in \"on the pirate\" or the verb \"to pirate\".\n\nIt has also been used to describe a pimp who steals a prostitute from another pimp.\n\nA more recent slang usage is a fictitious sex act called \"the pirate\" or \"the angry pirate\". Sex columnist Dan Savage fielded a question from a reader who asked about the act. The reader described it as \"when you’re getting a blowjob from a girl, and when you cum, you ejaculate in her eye. Then you kick her in the shin. The result is the woman is squinting her eye and hopping up and down on one foot, holding her leg and screaming, \"ARRRGH!\" Savage replied \"no one has ever attempted \"the Pirate,\" just as no one has ever performed a Hot Karl, delivered a donkey punch, or inserted an Icy Mike. They’re all fictions.\" Author Jordan Tate, commenting in \"The Contemporary Dictionary of Sexual Euphemisms\" (2007) said this \"falls into the class of theoretical euphemisms that are infrequent, impractical, and violent.\" Tate said these terms originated sometime after the sexual revolution, when the empowerment of women was threatening the place of men in contemporary society. [...] This shift in gender paradigms left men feeling threatened, and to reassert their authority, they created and popularized these theoretical and violent euphemisms.\n\nThe term is also used in compound words, including \"tango pirate,\" popularized in the early 20th century to describe gigolos who sought out wealthy women at dances. The terms \"butt pirate\" or \"ass pirate\" or \"poo pirate\" have been used as sexual slurs for gay men. The term \"Pamper pirate\" has been used to describe a child molester.\n"}
{"id": "56106883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56106883", "title": "Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Adventure Team", "text": "Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Adventure Team\n\nThe Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Adventure Team series are three role-playing games released for WiiWare, part of the \"Pokémon Mystery Dungeon\" series of games. The titles, which were released in Japan on 4 August 2009, are Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Advance! Fire Adventure Team, Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Go! Storm Adventure Team and Pokémon Mystery Dungeon: Aim! Light Adventure Team. The games are the only \"Mystery Dungeon\" titles to date to be released for a home console and not to be released for the international audience.\n\nAs with other installments in the \"Mystery Dungeon\" series, the game centers on randomly changing, multilevel dungeons which the player must explore and clear whilst battling hostile Pokémon in turn-based combat. It features separate Pokémon and dungeons between different versions, altogether containing 493 Pokémon of the first four generations of the Pokémon main series games.\n\nWhile similar to previous installments such as the and titles, \"Adventure Team\" introduces 3-dimensional graphics instead of the sprite-based graphics of the aforementioned titles. Aside from a difference of starters and the game's hub location (in \"Fire Adventure Team\", red-colored Pokémon such as Charmander are available in the \"Pokémon Village\", with blue-colored ones such as Squirtle in \"Pokémon Beach\" and yellow ones such as Pikachu in \"Pokémon Garden\" being available in \"Light Adventure Team\" and \"Storm Adventure Team\", respectively), the three games each contain 15 \"Mystery Dungeons\" which are unique to each other. Unlike preceding handheld games, \"Adventure Team\" games allows 4 save files in a single game. In addition, the player is capable of switching their character at any point in the game to another from a roster of nine Pokémon. Transfer of befriended Pokémon or items between the aforementioned save slots are allowed. The Nintendo DS can also be used as a controller for the game.\n\nThe three games collectively features all 493 Pokémon of the fourth generation games, including Arceus which was available through a special distribution. They also enable online features such as the WiiConnect24 and the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, through them allowing players to access special challenges and obtain otherwise unavailable Pokémon. The ability to execute \"team attacks\", where members of the player's team simultaneously attack an enemy Pokémon, were first introduced in \"Adventure Team\", and would feature in later \"Mystery Dungeon\" installments. In \"Adventure Team\", the Pokémon do so by stacking on top of each other, forming a \"Pokémon Tower\". In addition, the game allows player or allied Pokémon to evolve within the dungeons.\n\nUnlike previous and following \"Pokémon Mystery Dungeon\" games, the player does not act as a human transformed into a Pokémon and are instead Pokémon inhabitants of a town (Pokémon Village, Beach, or Garden depending on the game). After rescuing a Shuckle from a \"mystery dungeon\" in a tutorial mission with a single partner, the group of nine Pokémon forms an Adventure Team following the request of an elderly Slowking. After some time, in a mission the Pokémon obtain some chocolate which they hand to Shuckle, enticing jealousy across the town. To restore the town, the Adventure Team explore another dungeon and returns with cookies, successfully returning the town to its former peaceful state.\n\nFollowing the incident, one of the legendary dogs (Raikou, Entei or Suicune) depending on the game approaches the player, offering to join the Adventure Team. Later, they encounter other legendary Pokémon which are available for recruitment into the Rescue Team, in addition to higher-difficulty dungeons.\n\n\"Adventure Team\" installments were first teased through promotional pamphlets in mid-2009, with a website containing gameplay screenshots and footage being opened on July. The games were released on 4 August 2009 in the Wii Shop Channel for 1,200 Nintendo Points. The games were given a CERO rating of \"A\" (for all ages). \"Kotaku\" listed the games as one of the best released through the WiiWare.\n"}
{"id": "536360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536360", "title": "Richard Biggs", "text": "Richard Biggs\n\nRichard James Biggs II (March 18, 1960 – May 22, 2004) was an American television and stage actor, known for his roles on the television series \"Days of Our Lives\" and \"Babylon 5\".\n\nBorn in Columbus, Ohio, Biggs attended the University of Southern California on scholarship, studying theatre. He briefly taught at a Los Angeles high school before landing his first major television role, that of Dr. Marcus Hunter on the soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\".\n\nBiggs was diagnosed with hearing problems when he was 13, and was partially deaf in one ear, completely deaf in the other. He frequently used his celebrity status to raise money for the Aliso Academy, a private school in Rancho Santa Margarita, California that serves deaf children.\n\nFrom 1987 until 1994, Biggs played the role of Dr. Marcus Hunter on the soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\".\n\nHe appeared as Dr. Stephen Franklin on the hit science fiction series \"Babylon 5\" (1994–1998), reprising the role in the final aired episode of the spin-off show, \"Crusade\" (\"Each Night I Dream of Home\").\n\nAfter \"Babylon 5\", he played roles on \"Any Day Now\" and \"Strong Medicine\", as well as the recurring role of Clayton Boudreaux on the soap opera \"Guiding Light\".\n\nBiggs' stage credits include \"The Tempest\", \"Cymbeline\" and \"The Taming of the Shrew\".\n\nAt the time of his death, he was a regular on the television series \"Strong Medicine\"; following his death, his character was killed in an off-screen traffic accident. He also frequently guest starred as a local scientist on \"\". Biggs' final film appearance was in \"We Interrupt This Program\", a short film also featuring Biggs' \"Babylon 5\" costar, Bruce Boxleitner, released as a companion piece to the 2004 remake of \"Dawn of the Dead\" on DVD. His final television appearance was as a guest star on a 2004 episode of the Nickelodeon series \"Drake & Josh\", entitled \"The Gary Grill\" portraying an FBI agent, which was dedicated to his memory.\n\n\nHe married Lori Gebers on August 1, 1998. They had two children, Richard James III and Hunter Lee.\n\nBiggs collapsed at his home in Los Angeles, and died at Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center of complications stemming from aortic dissection on May 22, 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "57669092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57669092", "title": "The Flying Deer (ship)", "text": "The Flying Deer (ship)\n\nThe Flying Deer (dutch: Het fliegende hert) was a 17th century Dutch ship. She was lost at sea with all hands during a hurricane off St. Kitts in 1638.\n\nThe Flying Deer was an early 17th century sloop in dutch service. She was recorded as participating in the lucrative trans-Atlantic tobacco trade. In August 1638, the sloop was anchored off island of St. Kitts when the Swedish-flagged \"Kalmar Nykle\" (which was returning from its first voyage to establish New Sweden) also dropped anchor off the island. The captain of \"The\" \"Flying Deer\" was a friend of Peter Minuit, a prominent explorer aboard the Swedish ship, and so Minuit and Captain Jan Hindricksen van der Water of \"Kalmar Nykle\" were invited aboard \"The Flying Deer\". During the visit, a powerful storm (possibly a hurricane) swept up on the island, battering the ships at anchor. \"Kalmar Nykle\" rode out the storm at sea, but \"The Flying Deer\" was never seen again and presumed to be lost with all hands. \n"}
{"id": "1635718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1635718", "title": "Vine Deloria Jr.", "text": "Vine Deloria Jr.\n\nVine Victor Deloria Jr. (March 26, 1933 – November 13, 2005) was a Native American author, theologian, historian, and activist. He was widely known for his book \"Custer Died for Your Sins: An Indian Manifesto\" (1969), which helped generate national attention to Native American issues in the same year as the Alcatraz-Red Power Movement. From 1964 to 1967, he had served as executive director of the National Congress of American Indians, increasing tribal membership from 19 to 156. Beginning in 1977, he was a board member of the National Museum of the American Indian, which now has buildings in both New York City and Washington, DC. He was influential in the development of what scientific critics called American Indian creationism, but which American Indians referred to as defenses against scientific racism.\n\nDeloria began his academic career in 1970 at Western Washington State College at Bellingham, Washington. He became Professor of Political Science at the University of Arizona (1978–1990), where he established the first master's degree program in American Indian Studies in the United States. In 1990, Deloria taught at the University of Colorado Boulder until 2000, when he returned to Arizona and taught at the College of Law.\n\nVine Deloria Jr. was born in 1933, in Martin, South Dakota, near the Oglala Lakota Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. He was the son of Barbara Sloat (née Eastburn) and Vine Victor Deloria Sr. (1901–1990). His father studied English and Christian theology and became an Episcopal archdeacon and missionary on the Standing Rock Indian Reservation. His father transferred his and his children's tribal membership from the Yankton Sioux to Standing Rock. Vine Sr.'s sister Ella Deloria (1881–1971) was an anthropologist. Vine Jr.'s paternal grandfather was \"Tipi Sapa\" (Black Lodge), also known as Rev. Philip Joseph Deloria, an Episcopal priest and a leader of the Yankton band of the Dakota Nation. His paternal grandmother was Mary Sully, daughter of Alfred Sully, a general in the American Civil War and Indian Wars and his French-Yankton wife; and granddaughter of painter Thomas Sully.\n\nVine Jr. was first educated at reservation schools. Deloria graduated from Kent School in 1951. He graduated from Iowa State University in 1958 with a degree in general science. Deloria served in the Marines from 1954 through 1956.\n\nOriginally planning to be a minister like his father, Deloria Jr. in 1963 earned a theology degree from the Lutheran School of Theology, then located in Rock Island, Illinois. In the late 1960s, he returned to graduate study and earned a law degree from University of Colorado Law School in 1970.\n\nIn 1964, Deloria was elected executive director of the National Congress of American Indians. During his three-year term, the organization went from bankruptcy to solvency, and membership went from 19 to 156 tribes. Through the years, he was involved with many Native American organizations. Beginning in 1977, he was a board member of the National Museum of the American Indian, which established its first center at the former United States Custom House in New York City.\n\nWhile teaching at Western Washington State College at Bellingham, Washington, Deloria advocated for the treaty fishing rights of local Native American tribes. He worked on the legal case that led to the historic Boldt Decision of the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. Judge Boldt's ruling in \"United States v. Washington\" (1974) validated Indian fishing rights in the state as continuing past the tribes' cession of millions of acres of land to the United States in the 1850s. Thereafter Native Americans had the right to half the catch in fishing in the state.\n\nIn 1969, Deloria published his first of more than twenty books, entitled \"\". This book became one of Deloria's most famous works. In it, he addressed stereotypes of Indians and challenged white audiences to take a new look at the history of United States western expansion, noting its abuses of Native Americans. The book was released the year that students of the Alcatraz-Red Power Movement occupied Alcatraz Island to seek construction of an Indian cultural center, as well as attention in gaining justice on Indian issues, including recognition of tribal sovereignty. Other groups also gained momentum, with organizations such as the American Indian Movement staging events to attract media and public attention for education.\n\nThe book helped draw attention to the Native American struggle. Focused on the Native American goal of sovereignty without political and social assimilation, the book stood as a hallmark of Native American Self-Determination at the time. The American Anthropological Association sponsored a panel in response to \"Custer Died for Your Sins\". The book was reissued in 1988 with a new preface by the author, noting, \"The Indian world has changed so substantially since the first publication of this book that some things contained in it seem new again.\"\n\nDeloria wrote and edited many subsequent books and 200 articles, focusing on issues as they related to Native Americans, such as education and religion. In 1995, Deloria argued in his book \"Red Earth, White Lies\" that the Bering Strait Land Bridge never existed, and that the ancestors of the Native Americans had not migrated to the Americas over such a land bridge, as has been claimed by most archaeologists, anthropologists, linguists and other scholars. Rather, he asserted that the Native Americans may have originated in the Americas, or reached them through transoceanic travel, as some of their creation stories suggested.\n\nDeloria's position on the age of certain geological formations, the length of time Native Americans have been in the Americas, their possible coexistence with dinosaurs, etc. were influential in the development of American Indian defenses against scientific racism. This generally rejects scientific explanations of origins of indigenous peoples in the Americas that contradict American Indian accounts. Deloria argued that scientists are virtually incapable of independent thinking and are hobbled by their reverence for orthodoxy. He wrote that scientists characteristically persecute those who dare to advance unorthodox views, and that science is thus, essentially a religion. Deloria has been criticized for his embrace of American Indian traditional histories by such scholars as Bernard Ortiz de Montellano and H. David Brumble, who say such views are not supported by the scientific and physical evidence, and contribute to problems of pseudoscience.\n\nDeloria often cited American Indian creation accounts and oral traditions in support of his views relating to science. He also relied on Hindu creationists, such as Michael Cremo.\n\nNicholas Peroff wrote that \"Deloria has rarely missed a chance to argue that the realities of precontact American Indian experience and tradition cannot be recognized or understood within any conceptual framework built on the theories of modern science. And in fact, it is certainly true that no one, with or without the aid of scientific theories and concepts, can, in any absolute meaning of the word, know what life was like as a member of the Menominee Tribe six hundred years ago. But we can imagine what it was like.\"\n\nIn 1970, Deloria took his first faculty position, teaching at the Western Washington University College of Ethnic Studies in Bellingham, Washington. As a visiting scholar, he taught at the Pacific School of Religion, the New School of Religion and Colorado College. From 1972 to 1974 he also taught at the University of California at Los Angeles.\n\nHis first tenured position was as Professor of Political Science at the University of Arizona, which he held from 1978 to 1990. While at UA, Deloria established the first master's degree program in American Indian Studies in the United States. Such recognition of American Indian culture in existing institutions was one of the goals of the Alcatraz-Red Power Movement. Numerous American Indian studies programs, museums and collections, and other institutions have been established since Deloria's first book was published.\n\nDeloria next taught at the University of Colorado Boulder from 1990 to 2000. After he retired from CU Boulder, he taught at the University of Arizona's College of Law.\n\n\nAt his death, Deloria was survived by his wife, Barbara, their children, Philip, Daniel, and Jeanne, and seven grandchildren.\n\nHis son, Philip J. Deloria, is also a respected historian and author.\n\nAfter Deloria retired in May 2000, he continued to write and lecture until he died on November 13, 2005, in Golden, Colorado, from an aortic aneurysm.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13419874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13419874", "title": "Workplace spirituality", "text": "Workplace spirituality\n\nWorkplace spirituality or spirituality in the workplace is a movement that began in the early 1920s. It emerged as a grassroots movement with individuals seeking to live their faith and/or spiritual values in the workplace. Spiritual or \"spirit-centered\" leadership is a topic of inquiry frequently associated with the workplace spirituality movement (Benefiel, 2005; Biberman, 2000; Fry, 2005; Giacalone & Jurkiewicz, 2003; Jue, 2006).\n\nThe movement began primarily as U.S. centric but has become much more international in recent years. Key organizations include:\n\n\nKey factors that have led to this trend include:\n\n\nIn the late 1990s, the Academy of Management formed a special interest group called the Management, Spirituality and Religion Interest Group. This is a professional association of management professors from all over the world who are teaching and doing research on spirituality and religion in the workplace.\n\nThe International Center for Spirit at Work offers examples of workplace spirituality including:\n\nSpirituality is shown in a workplace when the following activities are included:\n\n\nOur complicity in world making is a source of awesome and sometimes painful responsibility—and a source of profound hope for change. It is the ground of our common call to leadership, the truth that makes leaders of us all.\n\nA leader is someone with the power to project either shadow or light onto some part of the world and onto the lives of the people who dwell there. A leader shapes the ethos in which others must live, an ethos as light-filled as heaven or as shadowy as hell. A \"good\" leader is intensely aware of the interplay of inner shadow and light, lest the act of leadership do more harm than good. (Palmer, p 78)\n\n\n\n"}
