{"id": "53064903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53064903", "title": "A Linguistic Atlas of Early Middle English", "text": "A Linguistic Atlas of Early Middle English\n\nA Linguistic Atlas of Early Middle English (LAEME) is a digital, corpus-driven, historical dialect resource for Early Middle English (1150–1325). LAEME combines a searchable Corpus of Tagged Texts (CTT), an Index of Sources, and dot maps showing the distribution of textual dialect features. LAEME is headed by the University of Edinburgh's Margaret Laing, and includes contributions from Roger Lass (University of Cape Town), and web-scripts by Keith Williamson, Vasilis Karaiskos (University of Edinburgh) and Sherrylyn Branchaw (University of California, LA).\n\nDating from 1987, a year after the publication of \"A Linguistic Atlas of Late Medieval English\" (LALME), LAEME's parent project, LAEME builds on medieval dialect methodologies developed for LALME, but parts ways with the latter by employing corpus linguistics methods. In its present form, such methods include the lexico-grammatical tagging of a select but comprehensive Early Middle English corpus, to which an ongoing project will add syntactic parsing (see Parsed Linguistic Atlas of Early Middle English P-LAEME). Public access to a fully tagged, syntactically annotated corpus should provide unprecedented scope for phonological, lexico-grammatical, semantic, pragmatic as well as dialectal inquiry into a period marked by rapid linguistic change but also by a paucity of surviving texts. At the lexical level, further scope is added by \"A Corpus of Narrative Etymologies\" (CoNE, Version 1.1, 2013). CoNE derives a Corpus of Changes (CC) from LAEME's Corpus of Tagged Texts (CTT), giving relative chronologies of lexical forms annotated by Special Codes. CoNE's narrative etymologies are not based on semantic backtracking through cognates, but on the processual narrative of word forms through time.\n\nPrior to the advent of modern linguistics, medieval philologists had sought to describe patterns of linguistic variation on the basis of literary language. This approach posed significant problems, as literary language was and is more likely to be imitative, archaizing, or syncretic than everyday documentary language. Texts composed in a literary tradition or copied from literary exemplars, then, are not ideal for use in reconstructing the distribution of dialect features for a given period. Nevertheless, to take the most famous Middle English instance, J.R.R. Tolkien was able to conjecture the AB literary dialect by comparing manuscripts of the Katherine Group (\"B\") and the Ancrene Wisse (\"A\"). Drawing on his personal knowledge of Old English and Old Norse, while counting and cataloging thousands of verbs by hand, Tolkien argued for a regional literary standard localized to north-west Herefordshire that preserved Old English elements into the 13th century. His culminating philological essay, Ancrene Wisse and Hali Meiðhad (1929), has been called \"one of the great triumphs of English philology\" but also \"philology's last gasp.\"\n\nIn the decade after this pioneering work, Middle English dialect studies went on generational hiatus. LALME, whose initial stages date to 1952, ushered in the next phase. Motivated by strong arguments for scribal normalization, historical dialectologists were no longer constrained by the unevenness of scribal fidelity. Medieval dialect studies would now rely on the relative consistency of scribal translation into a scribe's own language, while developing techniques for discriminating source from scribe. Angus McIntosh, one of LALME's compilers, \"observed that most copied Middle English texts were...in language that was dialectally homogeneous,\", suggesting scribal conversion of exemplar language into local varieties. Problematically, though, such varieties might not reflect the geographic areas of composition, since scribes often traveled to copying centers from far afield. This and other problems arising from the diversity of scribal practices (e.g. literam, or literal, and mischsprache, or mixed-language copying) placed a premium on texts of explicit local provenance to anchor dialectal domains. Such anchor texts, often correspondence or legal documents, form the basis of LALME's fit-technique. Larry Benskin, another LALME compiler, describes the fit-technique as a \"mechanical means of discovering whereabouts in the continuum of accents [an] unfamiliar accent belongs.\" This is done by comparing word forms in texts of uncertain origin against like forms attested in the anchor matrix, a comparison which \"depends on the progressive elimination of the areas to which the individual elements of the accent do \"not\" belong.\" Only frequently attested items of particular dialectal salience are so compared. In the case of LALME, these items were solicited through text questionnaires later converted into Linguistic Profiles (LPs). Questionnaires were not deemed practicable in LAEME's case, since the amount of linguistic information desired from comparatively fewer, comparatively fragmentary texts would have made them unwieldy. Instead, LAEME opted for corpus digitization.\n\nThe period covered by LAEME is of prime grammatical and phonological interest, as the language was undergoing widespread inflectional loss from OE but at different rates in different regions. Variation within phonological categories and inflectional paradigms possess dialectal and base-grammatical significance. Emergent orthography of phonetically-variable characters yogh, thorn and edh index other changes in the language. Scribes during this period show a proportionally higher preference for literam and mixed-language copying, resulting in a higher proportion of composite texts compared to later periods. Relict usage, where older exemplar forms remain unmodified in a translated text, and constrained selection, where exemplar forms are maintained because of scribal familiarity, pose additional problems for dialectal discrimination. Students of the period must also take into account its pronounced text/speech diglossia, with the majority of texts composed in Latin or French. Because LAEME's anchor matrix is thin and patchy, its dialectal fits are informed approximations subject to revision. LAEME's texts overall are geographically and temporally uneven, extremely sparse for its first half-century and for Northern varieties in general, much denser for Southern varieties and through its latter half-century, where it begins to overlap with LALME.\n\nThe above complexities and complications have obliged LAEME's architects to build the atlas around a digitized corpus of lexico-grammatically tagged texts that can be searched and compared according to the research needs of users. Instead of creating Linguistic Profiles from questionnaire responses, text dictionaries - taxonomical inventories of each text language - are derived from tagged texts. Independent searchability multiplies LAEME's usages across disciplines, as scholars and researchers can generate their own Form and Tag Dictionaries, Feature Maps, and Concordances. LAEME surpasses its remit as a dialect resource by offering a suite of multi-function linguistic tools for public use. This versatility accords with Angus McIntosh's progressive vision for LALME, which he saw as \"more likely to benefit those concerned with the literature and culture and social structure of medieval England than those primarily concerned with...linguistics.\"\n\nAn example of a multi-function LAEME tool is the Concordance. Users begin by selecting a tag type (suffixes, grammatical words, inflection, lexis), entering a search string, and then a position limiter (initial, medial, final). This search is followed by a filter set allowing users to specify counties, number of words to precede and/or proceed the search string, and sorting parameters (form, tag, date, file). Finally, users may select specific tagged forms generated by the search. Entries in the resulting concordance link to manuscript descriptions and to corresponding text dictionaries. Users are able to view contextualized instances of items indexed to coded sources available in several file types. Similar processes can be used to create Tag and Form Dictionaries with frequency counts, and to generate Feature Maps.\n\n"}
{"id": "252569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=252569", "title": "Acculturation", "text": "Acculturation\n\nAcculturation is the process of social, psychological, and cultural change that stems from blending between cultures. The effects of acculturation can be seen at multiple levels in both the original (native) and newly adopted (host) cultures.\n\nHistorically speaking, acculturation is a direct change of one's culture through dominance over another's culture through either military or political conquest.\n\nAt this group level, acculturation often results in changes to culture, customs, religious practices, diet, healthcare, and other social institutions. Some of the most noticeable group level effects of acculturation often include changes in food, clothing, and language.\n\nAt the individual level, the process of acculturation refers to the socialisation process by which foreign-born individuals adopt the values, customs, norms, attitudes, and behaviours of the dominant host culture. This process has been linked to changes in daily behaviour, as well as numerous changes in psychological and physical well-being. As enculturation is used to describe the process of first-culture learning, acculturation can be thought of as second-culture learning.\n\nScholars in different disciplines have developed more than 100 different theories of acculturation, but the concept of acculturation has only been studied scientifically since 1918. As it has been approached at different times from the fields of psychology, anthropology, and sociology, numerous theories and definitions have emerged to describe elements of the acculturative process. Despite definitions and evidence that acculturation entails a two-way process of change, research and theory have primarily focused on the adjustments and adaptations made by minorities such as immigrants, refugees, and indigenous peoples in response to their contact with the dominant majority. Contemporary research has primarily focused on different strategies of acculturation, how variations in acculturation affect individuals, and interventions to make this process easier.\n\nAlthough the word \"acculturation\" was coined by J.W. Powell in 1880, the earliest record of acculturation can be found in Sumerian inscriptions from 2370 B.C. These inscriptions laid out rules for commerce and interaction with foreigners designed to limit acculturation and protect traditional cultural practices. Plato also discussed acculturation, arguing that it should be avoided, as he thought it would lead to social disorder. Accordingly, he proposed that no one should travel abroad until they are at least 40 years of age, and that travelers should be restricted to the ports of cities to minimize contact with native citizens. Nevertheless, the history of Western civilization, and in particular the histories of Europe and the United States, are largely defined by patterns of acculturation.\n\nOne of the most notable forms of acculturation is imperialism, the most common predecessor of direct cultural change. Although these cultural changes may seem simple, the combined results are both robust and complex, impacting both groups and individuals from the original culture and the host culture.\n\nThe first psychological theory of acculturation was proposed in W.I. Thomas and Florian Znaniecki's 1918 study, \"The Polish Peasant in Europe and America\". From studying Polish immigrants in Chicago, they illustrated three forms of acculturation corresponding to three personality types: Bohemian (adopting the host culture and abandoning their culture of origin), Philistine (failing to adopt the host culture but preserving their culture of origin), and creative-type (able to adapt to the host culture while preserving their culture of origin). In 1936, Redfield, Linton, and Herskovits provided the first widely used definition of acculturation as:\nLong before efforts toward racial and cultural integration in the United States arose, the main course of action was assimilation. In 1954, Milton Gordon's book \"Assimilation in American Life\" outlined seven stages of the assimilative process, setting the stage for literature on this topic. Later, Young Yun Kim authored a reiteration of Gordon's work, but argued cross-cultural adaptation as a multi-staged process. Kim's theory focused on the unitary nature of psychological and social processes and the reciprocal functional personal environment interdependence. Although this view was the earliest to fuse micro-psychological and macro-social factors into an integrated theory, it is clearly focused on assimilation rather than racial or ethnic integration. In Kim's approach, assimilation is unilinear and the sojourner must conform to the majority group culture in order to be \"communicatively competent.\" According to Gudykunst and Kim (2003) the \"cross-cultural adaptation process involves a continuous interplay of deculturation and acculturation that brings about change in strangers in the direction of assimilation, the highest degree of adaptation theoretically conceivable.\" This view has been heavily criticized, since the biological science definition of adaptation refers to the random mutation of new forms of life, not the convergence of a monoculture (Kramer, 2003).\n\nThus, the term adaptation is used by Gudykunst and Kim to mean conformity to the coercive power (pp. 360, 371) or \"mainstream culture\". According to this definition, any attempt to maintain one's original values, beliefs, ways of thinking, feelings, or behaviors constitutes mental illness or \"maladaptation\" (p. 372). This is further emphasized by Gudykunst and Kim (2003), stating that the way of \"upward-forward\" evolution toward functional fitness and psychological health is for the newcomer to willfully \"unlearn\" and \"deculturize\" themselves (p. 380). Gudykunst and Kim proposed both psychotherapy and abandonment of all ethnic relations and associations with ethnic ties to help immigrants achieve \"integrative\" conformity (2003). Again, this is not integration but rather dissolution of the newcomer's original identity. According to Gudykunst and Kim (2003), increased disintegration is preferred, even if it leads to extreme distress for the immigrant. Ironically, Gudykunst and Kim seemed to identify the concept of acculturative stress stating \"even extreme mental illness [caused by \"conformity pressure\" p. 371] can be viewed as a process of a potentially positive disintegration that will be reintegrated with new material at a higher level\" (p. 381).\n\nNo matter how unjust or cruel, Gudykunst and Kim (2003) argue that the host's way of thinking, feeling, and behaving constitutes the \"higher level\" of psychic evolution and any resistance to conform indicates that the immigrant is communicatively incompetent, immature, mentally ill (pp. 365, 372-373, 376, 381), weak (p. 369), irrationally aggressive or hostile (pp. 371, 376), lacking in self-control (p. 369), cynical (p. 380), pessimistic (p. 369), closed-minded (p. 369), simple minded (pp. 382–383) and \"ethnocentric\" (pp. 376, 382). Evolutionary progress for the individual requires the individual to \"abandon identification with the cultural patterns that have constituted who one is and what one is\" (p. 377).\n\nIn contradistinction from Gudykunst and Kim's version of adaptive evolution, Eric M. Kramer developed his theory of Cultural Fusion (2011, 2010, 2000a, 1997a, 2000a, 2011, 2012) maintaining clear, conceptual distinctions between assimilation, adaptation, and integration. According to Kramer, assimilation involves conformity to a pre-existing form. Kramer's (2000a, 2000b, 2000c, 2003, 2009, 2011) theory of Cultural Fusion, which is based on systems theory and hermeneutics, argues that it is impossible for a person to unlearn themselves and that by definition, \"growth\" is not a zero sum process that requires the disillusion of one form for another to come into being but rather a process of learning new languages and cultural repertoires (ways of thinking, cooking, playing, working worshiping, and so forth). In other words, Kramer argues that one need not unlearn a language in order to learn a new one, nor does one have to unlearn who one is in order to learn new ways of dancing, cooking, talking and so forth. Unlike Gudykunst and Kim (2003), Kramer argues that this blending of language and culture results in cognitive complexity, or the ability to switch between cultural repertoires. To put Kramer's ideas simply, learning is growth rather than unlearning.\n\nAlthough numerous models of acculturation exist, the most complete models take into consideration the changes occurring at the group and individual levels of both interacting groups. To understand acculturation at the group level, one must first look at the nature of both cultures before coming into contact with one another. A useful approach is Eric Kramer's theory of Dimensional Accrual and Dissociation (DAD). Two fundamental premises in Kramer's DAD theory are the concepts of hermeneutics and semiotics, which infer that identity, meaning, communication, and learning all depend on differences or variance. According to this view, total assimilation would result in a monoculture void of personal identity, meaning, and communication. Kramer's DAD theory also utilizes concepts from several scholars, most notably Jean Gebser and Lewis Mumford, to synthesize explanations of widely observed cultural expressions and differences.\n\nKramer's theory identifies three communication styles (\"idolic\", \"symbolic\", or \"signalic\" ) in order to explain cultural differences. It is important to note that in this theory, no single mode of communication is inherently superior, and no final solution to intercultural conflict is suggested. Instead, Kramer puts forth three integrated theories: the theory Dimensional Accrual and Dissociation, the Cultural Fusion Theory and the Cultural Churning Theory.\n\nFor instance, according to Kramer's DAD theory, a statue of a god in an \"idolic\" community literally is god, and stealing it is a highly punishable offense. For example, many people in India believe that statues of the god Ganesh – to take such a statue/god from its temple is more than theft, it is blasphemy. \"Idolic\" reality involves strong emotional identification, where a holy relic does not simply symbolize the sacred, \"it is\" sacred. By contrast, a Christian crucifix follows a \"symbolic\" nature, where it represents a symbol of God. Lastly, the \"signalic\" modality is far less emotional and increasingly dissociated.\n\nKramer refers to changes in each culture due to acculturation as \"co-evolution\". Kramer also addresses what he calls the \"qualities of out vectors\" which address the nature in which the former and new cultures make contact. Kramer uses the phrase \"interaction potential\" to refer to differences in individual or group acculturative processes. For example, the process of acculturation is markedly different if one is entering the host as an immigrant or as a refugee. Moreover, this idea encapsulates the importance of how receptive a host culture is to the newcomer, how easy is it for the newcomer to interact with and get to know the host, and how this interaction affects both the newcomer \"and\" the host.\n\nThe fourfold model is a bilinear model that categorizes acculturation strategies along two dimensions. The first dimension concerns the retention or rejection of an individual's minority or native culture (i.e. \"Is it considered to be of value to maintain one's identity and characteristics?\"), whereas the second dimension concerns the adoption or rejection of the dominant group or host culture. (\"Is it considered to be of value to maintain relationships with the larger society?\") From this, four acculturation strategies emerge.\n\n\nStudies suggest that individuals' respective acculturation strategy can differ between their private and public life spheres. For instance, an individual may reject the values and norms of the dominant culture in his private life (separation), whereas he might adapt to the dominant culture in public parts of his life (i.e., integration or assimilation).\n\nThe fourfold models used to describe individual attitudes of immigrants parallel models used to describe group expectations of the larger society and how groups should acculturate. In a melting pot society, in which a harmonious and homogenous culture is promoted, assimilation is the endorsed acculturation strategy. In segregationist society, in which humans are separated into racial groups in daily life, a separation acculturation strategy is endorsed. In a multiculturalist society, in which multiple cultures are accepted and appreciated, individuals are encouraged to adopt an integrationist approach to acculturation. In societies where cultural exclusion is promoted, individuals often adopt marginalization strategies of acculturation.\n\nAttitudes towards acculturation, and thus the range of acculturation strategies available, have not been consistent over time. For example, for most of American history, policies and attitudes have been based around established ethnic hierarchies with an expectation of one-way assimilation for predominantly White European immigrants. Although the notion of cultural pluralism has existed since the early 20th century, the recognition and promotion of multiculturalism did not become prominent in America until the 1980s. Separatism can still be seen today in autonomous religious communities such as the Amish and the Hutterites. Immediate environment also impacts the availability, advantage, and selection of different acculturation strategies. As individuals immigrate to unequal segments of society, immigrants to areas lower on economic and ethnic hierarchies may encounter limited social mobility and membership to a disadvantaged community.\n\nOn a broad scale study, involving immigrants in 13 immigration-receiving countries, the experience of discrimination was positively related to the maintenance of the immigrants' ethnic culture. In other words, immigrants that maintain their cultural practices and values are more likely to be discriminated against than those whom abandon their culture.\n\nIt should also be noted that most individuals show variation in both their ideal and chosen acculturation strategies across different domains of their lives. For example, among immigrants, it is often easier and more desired to acculturate to their host society's attitudes towards politics and government, than it is to acculturate to new attitudes about religion, principles, and values.\n\nThe large flux of migrants around the world has sparked scholarly interest in acculturation, and how it can specifically affect health by altering levels of stress, access to health resources, and attitudes towards health. The effects of acculturation on physical health is thought to be a major factor in the immigrant paradox, which argues that first generation immigrants tend to have better health outcomes than non-immigrants. Although this term has been popularized, most of the academic literature supports the opposite conclusion, or that immigrants have poorer health outcomes than their host culture counterparts.\n\nOne prominent explanation for the negative health behaviors and outcomes (e.g. substance use, low birth weight) associated with the acculturation process is the \"acculturative stress theory\". Acculturative stress refers to the stress response of immigrants in response to their experiences of acculturation. Stressors can include but are not limited to the pressures of learning a new language, maintaining one's native language, balancing differing cultural values, and brokering between native and host differences in acceptable social behaviors. Acculturative stress can manifest in many ways, including but not limited to anxiety, depression, substance abuse, and other forms of mental and physical maladaptation. Stress caused by acculturation has been heavily documented in phenomenological research on the acculturation of a large variety of immigrants. This research has shown that acculturation is a \"fatiguing experience requiring a constant stream of bodily energy,\" and is both an \"individual and familial endeavor\" involving \"enduring loneliness caused by seemingly insurmountable language barriers\".\n\nOne important distinction when it comes to risk for acculturative stress is degree of willingness, or migration status, which can differ greatly if one enters a country as a voluntary immigrant, refugee, asylum seeker, or sojourner. According to several studies, voluntary migrants experience roughly 50% less acculturative stress than refugees, making this an important distinction. According to Schwartz (2010), there are four main categories of migrants: \nThis type of entry distinction is important, but acculturative stress can also vary significantly within and between ethnic groups. Much of the scholarly work on this topic has focused on Asian and Latino/a immigrants, however more research is needed on the effects of acculturative stress on other ethnic immigrant groups. Among U.S. Latinos, higher levels of adoption of the American host culture has been associated with negative effects on health behaviors and outcomes, such as increased risk for depression and discrimination, and increased risk for low self-esteem. However, some individuals also report \"finding relief and protection in relationships\" and \"feeling worse and then feeling better about oneself with increased competencies\" during the acculturative process. Again, these differences can be attributed to the age of the immigrant, the manner in which an immigrant exited their home country, and how the immigrant is received by the both the original and host cultures. Recent research has compared the acculturative processes of documented Mexican-American immigrants and undocumented Mexican-American immigrants and found significant differences in their experiences and levels of acculturative stress. Both groups of Mexican-American immigrants faced similar risks for depression and discrimination from the host (Americans), but the undocumented group of Mexican-American immigrants also faced discrimination, hostility, and exclusion by their own ethnic group (Mexicans) because of their unauthorized legal status. These studies highlight the complexities of acculturative stress, the degree of variability in health outcomes, and the need for specificity over generalizations when discussing potential or actual health outcomes.\n\nResearchers recently uncovered another layer of complications in this field, where survey data has either combined several ethnic groups together or has labeled an ethnic group incorrectly. When these generalizations occur, nuances and subtleties about a person or group's experience of acculturation or acculturative stress can be diluted or lost. For example, much of the scholarly literature on this topic uses U.S. Census data, however the Census mistakenly categorizes Arab-Americans as \"White\". By doing so, this data set omits many factors about the Arab-American migrant experience, including but not limited to acculturation and acculturative stress. This is of particular importance after the events of September 11, 2001, since Arab-Americans have faced increased prejudice and discrimination, leaving this community with an increased risk of acculturative stress. Research focusing on the adolescent Arab American experience of acculturation has also found that youth who experience acculturative stress during the identity formation process are at a higher risk for low self-esteem, anxiety, and depression.\n\nSome researchers argue that education, social support, hopefulness about employment opportunities, financial resources, family cohesion, maintenance of traditional cultural values, and high socioeconomic status (SES) serve as protections or mediators against acculturative stress. Previous work shows that limited education, low SES, and underemployment all increase acculturative stress. Since this field of research is rapidly growing, more research is needed to better understand how certain subgroups are differentially impacted, how stereotypes and biases have influenced former research questions about acculturative stress, and the ways in which acculturative stress can be effectively mediated.\n\nIn situations of continuous contact, cultures have exchanged and blended foods, music, dances, clothing, tools, and technologies. Cultural exchange can either occur naturally through extended contact, or more quickly though cultural appropriation or cultural imperialism.\n\nCultural appropriation is the adoption of some specific elements of one culture by members a different cultural group. It can include the introduction of forms of dress or personal adornment, music and art, religion, language, or behavior. These elements are typically imported into the existing culture, and may have wildly different meanings or lack the subtleties of their original cultural context. Because of this, cultural appropriation for monetary gain is typically viewed negatively, and has sometimes been called \"cultural theft\".\n\nCultural imperialism is the practice of promoting the culture or language of one nation in another, usually occurring in situations in which assimilation is the dominant strategy of acculturation. Cultural imperialism can take the form of an active, formal policy or a general attitude regarding cultural superiority.\n\nIn some instances, acculturation results in the adoption of another country's language, which is then modified over time to become a new, distinct, language. For example, Hanzi, the written language of Chinese language, has been adapted and modified by other nearby cultures, including: Japan (as kanji), Korea (as hanja), and Vietnam (as hán tự). Another common effect of acculturation on language is the formation of pidgin languages. Pidgin is a mixed language that has developed to help communication between members of different cultures in contact, usually occurring in situations of trade or colonialism. For example, Pidgin English is a simplified form of English mixed with some of the language of another culture.\n\nFood habits and food consumption are affected by acculturation on different levels. Research indicated that food habits are discreet and practiced privately, and change occurs slowly. Consumption of new food items is affected by the availability of native ingredients, convenience and cost; therefore, an immediate change is likely to occur.\n\nSome anthropologists make a semantic distinction between group and individual levels of acculturation. In these instances, the term \"transculturation\" is used to define individual foreign-origin acculturation, and occurs on a smaller scale with less visible impact. Scholars making this distinction use the term \"acculturation\" only to address large-scale cultural transactions. Acculturation, then, is the process by which migrants gain new information and insight about the normals and values of the culture and adapt their behaviors to the host culture.\n\nMost research seems to indicate that the integrationist model of acculturation will lead to the most favorable psychological outcomes and marginalization to the least favorable. An initial meta-analysis of the acculturation literature found these results to be unclear. However, a more thorough meta-analysis of 40 studies showed that integration was indeed found to have a \"significant, weak, and positive relationship with psychological and sociocultural adjustment\". There are many factors that can explain the differences in these findings, including how different the two interacting cultures are, and degree of integration difficulty (bicultural identity integration). These types of factors partially explain why general statements about approaches to acculturation are not sufficient in predicting successful adaptation. As research in this area has expanded, one study has identified marginalization as being a maladaptive acculturation strategy.\n\nSeveral theorists have stated that the fourfold models of acculturation are too simplistic to have predictive validity. Some common criticisms of such models include the fact that individuals don't often fall neatly into any of the four categories, and that there is very little evidence for the applied existence of the marginalization acculturation strategy. In addition, the bi-directionality of acculturation means that whenever two groups are engaged in cultural exchange, there are 16 permutations of acculturation strategies possible (e.g. an integrationist individual within an assimilationist host culture). The interactive acculturation model represents one proposed alternative to the typological approach by attempting to explain the acculturation process within a framework of state policies and the dynamic interplay of host community and immigrant acculturation orientations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795", "title": "Affidavit", "text": "Affidavit\n\nAn affidavit ( ) is a written sworn statement of fact voluntarily made by an \"affiant\" or \"deponent\" under an oath or affirmation administered by a person authorized to do so by law. Such statement is witnessed as to the authenticity of the affiant's signature by a taker of oaths, such as a notary public or commissioner of oaths. The name is Medieval Latin for \"he/she has declared upon oath\". An affidavit is a type of verified statement or showing, or in other words, it contains a verification, meaning it is under oath or penalty of perjury, and this serves as evidence to its veracity and is required for court proceedings.\n\nAffidavits may be written in the first or third person, depending on who drafted the document. If in the first person, the document's component parts are typically as follows:\n\nIf an affidavit is notarized or authenticated, it will also include a caption with a venue and title in reference to judicial proceedings. In some cases, an introductory clause, called a \"preamble\", is added attesting that the affiant personally appeared before the authenticating authority.\n\nOn 2 March 2016, the High Court of Australia held that the ACT Uniform Evidence Legislation is neutral in the way sworn evidence and unsworn evidence is treated as being of equal weight.\n\nIn Indian law, although an affidavit may be taken as proof of the facts stated therein, the Courts have no jurisdiction to admit evidence by way of affidavit. Affidavit is treated as \"evidence\" within the meaning of Section 3 of the Evidence Act. However, it was held by the Supreme Court that an affidavit can be used as evidence only if the Court so orders for sufficient reasons, namely, the right of the opposite party to have the deponent produced for cross-examination (Khandesh Spg & Wvg Mills CO. Ltd. Vs Rashtriya Girni Kamgar Sangh, citation 1960 AIR571, 1960 SCR(2) 841). Therefore, an affidavit cannot ordinarily be used as evidence in absence of a specific order of the Court.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, under the Oaths Ordinance, with the exception of court marshals, a person may submit an affidavit signed in the presence of a Commissioner for Oaths or a justice of the peace.\n\nAffidavits are made in a similar way as to England and Wales, although \"make oath\" is sometimes omitted. A declaration may be substituted for an affidavit in most cases for those opposed to swearing oaths. The person making the affidavit is known as the deponent but does not sign the affidavit. The affidavit concludes in the standard format \"sworn (declared) before me, [name of commissioner for oaths/solicitor], a commissioner for oaths (solicitor), on the [date] at [location] in the county/city of [county/city], and I know the deponent (declarant)\", and it is signed and stamped by the commissioner for oaths.\n\nIn American jurisprudence, under the rules for hearsay, admission of an unsupported affidavit as evidence is unusual (especially if the affiant is not available for cross-examination) with regard to material facts which may be dispositive of the matter at bar. Affidavits from persons who are dead or otherwise incapacitated, or who cannot be located or made to appear, may be accepted by the court, but usually only in the presence of corroborating evidence. An affidavit which reflected a better grasp of the facts close in time to the actual events may be used to refresh a witness's recollection. Materials used to refresh recollection are admissible as evidence. If the affiant is a party in the case, the affiant's opponent may be successful in having the affidavit admitted as evidence, as statements by a party-opponent are admissible through an exception to the hearsay rule.\n\nAffidavits are typically included in the response to interrogatories. Requests for admissions under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 36, however, are not required to be sworn.\n\nSome types of motions will not be accepted by the court unless accompanied by an independent sworn statement or other evidence, in support of the need for the motion. In such a case, a court will accept an affidavit from the filing attorney in support of the motion, as certain assumptions are made, to wit: The affidavit in place of sworn testimony promotes judicial economy. The lawyer is an officer of the court and knows that a false swearing by him, if found out, could be grounds for severe penalty up to and including disbarment. The lawyer if called upon would be able to present independent and more detailed evidence to prove the facts set forth in his affidavit. \n\nThe acceptance of an affidavit by one society does not confirm its acceptance as a legal document in other jurisdictions. Equally, the acceptance that a lawyer is an officer of the court (for swearing the affidavit) is not a given. This matter is addressed by the use of the apostille, a means of certifying the legalization of a document for international use under the terms of the 1961 Hague Convention Abolishing the Requirement of Legalization for Foreign Public Documents. Documents which have been notarized by a notary public, and certain other documents, and then certified with a conformant apostille, are accepted for legal use in all the nations that have signed the Hague Convention. Thus most affidavits now require to be apostilled if used for cross border issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "18756773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18756773", "title": "Aligned Assets", "text": "Aligned Assets\n\n\"Aligned Assets\"' are a UK-based company from Surrey that develops address management, gazetteer software and Augmented Reality solutions for local authorities, the emergency services and the commercial sector. They almost exclusively work with the AddressBase products from the Ordnance Survey.\n\nAligned Assets were formed in 1996 by Carl Nunn, later joined by Phil Gee in 1997 and Mike Saunt in 1998, who all met whilst working together for MapInfo Corporation (now Pitney Bowes MapInfo). Originally working as MapInfo resellers and Geographical Information System (GIS) developers, the company saw early success by securing contracts with companies such as the BBC, Experian and Orange (brand).\n\nAligned Assets moved into address management with the development in 1997 of the BS7666 Toolbox that was built on behalf of MapInfo to assist UK Local Authorities in the development of the National Land and Property Gazetteer (NLPG).\n\nThey currently specialize in the gazetteer and address management market working both in the local government sector and with the emergency services. They are the chosen supplier to the British Transport Police, Transport for London, Birmingham City Council and were involved in the FiReControl project.\n\nAfter the introduction of BS7666:2006, they were the first company to achieve accreditation to the new standard and the first company to have one of their customers fully migrated.\n\nThe start of 2010 saw the company move into the commercial sector after they became the UK's first reseller of NLPG data. In 2011, they were announced as the first UK company to be able to provide products compatible with the NLPG's replacement - AddressBase.\nIn February 2017 Andy Hird and Dinesh Thanigasalam were announced as the new majority shareholders of Aligned Assets following a successful Management Buyout.\n\nAligned Assets provide Addressing software and consultancy to various market sectors across the UK. The services provided typically focus around Address Management solutions to the following markets:\n\nSome projects undertaken by Aligned Assets include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41212355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41212355", "title": "Annales ianuenses", "text": "Annales ianuenses\n\nThe Annales ianuenses (Latin: \"Genoese annals\") or Annali Genovesi form the official history of the Republic of Genoa during the High Middle Ages. It is the earliest medieval civic chronicle and the earliest set of annals composed by a layman. The \"Annales\" form a chronological account of the history of Genoa from 1099 until 1294. The first annals were composed by Caffarus, a private citizen, on his own initiative. In 1152, he petitioned the republic to keep a copy in the public archives (\"comuni cartularium\") and thenceforth the annals were continued at public expense. Caffarus, who probably began the work around 1100, continued it himself down to 1163. A series of officials of the chancery continued the \"Annales\" between 1169 and 1197, when work was taken over by the scribe and diplomat Ogerius. He worked down to 1216; thereafter, the annalists were anonymous, and at times a committee, until the last entry was added in 1294. The public manuscript of the \"Annales ianuenses\" is now kept in the Bibliothèque nationale de France, lat. 10136.\n\nThe content of the annals is confined to the names of the consuls, the changes to the constitution (the \"compagniae\" or sworn association), changes to the coinage and the victories of Genoa over her enemies, particularly Saracens and Pisans. In Caffarus' own words to the republic in 1152, the purpose of the chronicle was \"that henceforth for all time the victories of the city of Genoa be known to future men.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40629226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40629226", "title": "Archive.is", "text": "Archive.is\n\narchive.is (formerly archive.today) is an archive site which stores snapshots of web pages. It retrieves one page at a time similar to WebCite, smaller than 50 MB each, but with Web 2.0 sites (such as Google Maps and Twitter) included.\n\nArchive.is uses headless browsing to record what embedded resources need to be captured to provide a high-quality memento, and creates a PNG image to provide a static and non-interactive visualization of the representation.\n\nUnlike crawlers such as Wayback Machine, archive.is only captures individual pages in response to explicit user requests, and so does not obey the robots exclusion standard. Because of this, website owners cannot unilaterally remove snapshots at will, making it a \"permanent\" archive. \n\nSince July 2013, archive.is supports the Memento Project application programming interface (API).\n\nAccording to GreatFire.org, archive.is has been blocked in China since March 2016, archive.li since September 2017, and archive.fo since July 2018.\n\nOn July 21, 2015, the operators blocked access to the service from all Finnish IP addresses, stating on Twitter that they did this in order to avoid escalating a dispute they allegedly had with the Finnish government.\n\nIn Russia, only HTTP access is possible; HTTPS connections are blocked.\n\nThe site was protected by Cloudflare from August 16 2018 until September 2 2018.\n\nArchive.is records only text and images, excluding video and other non-static content. It keeps track of the history of snapshots saved, returning to the user a request for confirmation before adding a new snapshot of an already saved Internet address.\n\nAt November 2018, Archive.is codifies snapshots with an alphanumeric case-sensitive code of five elements. Hence, any element may have one of 42 possible values, between: \nThe global amount of possible combinations is given by the conditional probability theorem, as follows: formula_1 milions of identifiers. The number of available URIs can be additionally extended with the use of plus and minus, colon, underscore or slash signs.\n\nWeb pages cannot be duplicated from \"<nowiki>http://archive.is</nowiki>\" to \"<nowiki>http://www.archive.org</nowiki>\" as second-level backup. The reverse - from \"<nowiki>www.archive.org</nowiki>\" to \"<nowiki>archive.is</nowiki>\" - is possible, but the copy usually takes more time than a direct capture. Some web sites can't be saved by either Internet Archive or archive.is due to their robots.txt file.\n\nThe research toolbar enables advanced keywords operators, using \nA couple of quotation marks address the search to an exact sequence of keywords present in the title or in the body of the webpage, whereas the \"insite\" operator restricts it to a specific Internet domain.\n\nOnce a web page is archived, it cannot be deleted directly by any Internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "6201884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6201884", "title": "Bibliotheca selecta", "text": "Bibliotheca selecta\n\nBibliotheca selecta (full title Bibliotheca selecta de ratione studiorum in Historia, In Disciplinis, in salute omnium procuranda) is a bibliographical encyclopedia by the Jesuit Antonio Possevino, printed in two folio volumes at the Typographia Apostolica Vaticana by Domenico Basa in 1593. It represents an authoritative and up-to-date Jesuit compendium of Counter-Reformation knowledge.\n\nPart I (Books 1-11) is dedicated to pope Clement VIII with the imprimatur of Jesuit general Claudio Acquaviva. It begins with an introduction that traces the \"Idea et causae operis\" to the 1560s in France when as a Jesuit superior Possevino started fighting the anti-heretical battle of the books. From Lyons and Avignon he had seen the challenge to the orthodoxy of Rome and the Council of Trent represented by Konrad Gesner's \"Bibliotheca universalis\", the ground-breaking encyclopedia expressing the Erasmian culture of Swiss and German Reformers, a work immediately banned by church censors. To begin, Possevino discourses on the principles of Jesuit humanist pedagogy enunciated in the \"Ratio studiorum\" in a preliminary section, \"Cultura ingeniorum\". This part, as several others, went through several separate editions and an Italian translation by Possevino. Among these was an edition dedicated to the Russian False Dmitriy I. The theological presentation of the several books outlines a comprehensive bibliography on theology, scholastic, catechetical and controversial, and incorporates works by such contemporary Jesuit missionaries as Alessandro Valignano and Edmund Campion.\n\nPart II is dedicated to king Sigismund III Vasa of Poland, one of the contemporary rulers under Possevino's Counter Reformation tutelage. From Books 12 through 18 he summarizes the literature and bibliography for law {12}, philosophy {13} and medicine (14). Possevino is creating an authorized bibliography of the traditional arts and sciences elaborating the humanistic educational precepts of the Jesuit \"Ratio Studiorum\". The liberal arts are dealt with in the final books on architecture and geography {15}, history {16} poetry & painting {17} and rhetoric {18}. The major thrust of Possevino's orthodox compendium is the creation of a bibliography of the humanist culture of the Late Renaissance that is both confidently encyclopedic and outspokenly anti-heretical. The criterion of orthodoxy is underscored in his previous \"Iudicium de Nuae, Iohannis Bodini, Philippe-Mornaei et Machiavelli scriptis\", 1592, which placed the works of leading writers such as Niccolò Machiavelli and Jean Bodin on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum. In addition to two revised folio editions of the \"Bibliotheca selecta\" printed in Venice, 1603 and Cologne, 1607, several books were reprinted in separate editions, notably Book 16, as Apparatus ad omnium gentium historiam, a thorough bibliography of the ancient and contemporary literature of world history reworking, expurgating and updating Bodin's \"Methodus ad facilem historiarum cognitionem\"(1566). Book 18 was published separately as a rhetorical treatise, \"Cicero collatus cum Etnicis et sacris scriptoribus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "661696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=661696", "title": "Business Dynamics", "text": "Business Dynamics\n\nBusiness Dynamics is a book by John Sterman that applies system dynamics to business.\n\nThe book introduces systems dynamics modeling for the analysis of policy and strategy, with an emphasis on business and public policy applications. System dynamics is both a conceptual tool and a powerful modeling method. This allows the building of computer simulations of complex systems. These simulations can then be used to test the effectiveness of different policies on business outcomes.\n\n"}
{"id": "32604132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32604132", "title": "Chair Transformation Number 20B", "text": "Chair Transformation Number 20B\n\nChair Transformation Number 20B is an abstract sculpture, by Lucas Samaras, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1902976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1902976", "title": "Chin (deity)", "text": "Chin (deity)\n\nIn describing the customs of the Mayas inhabiting the Verapaz province (including the Alta Verapaz and Baja Verapaz) of 16th-century Guatemala, Bishop Bartolomé de las Casas mentions sexual relationships, regulated by customary law, between unmarried young men and boys, as well as similar relations prevailing among adolescents receiving instruction in the temples. Chin, together with Cu, Cavil ('idol'), and Maran, is mentioned as the name of the male deity said to have demonstrated sexual intercourse with another 'demon', and thereby to have introduced such relationships: \"From that time on some fathers gave their sons a little boy to be used as a woman; and if someone else took the boy, they demanded pay as is done when someone violates another's wife.\" Institutionalized pederastic prostitution, including transvestism, is recorded in 17th-century Spanish reports of the Itzá Mayas living in the Petén. Among the Classic Period scenes found in a cave of Naj Tunich is a depiction of a naked, sexually excited male creature embracing a nude Maya nobleman, possibly by way of initiation.\n\n"}
{"id": "40678568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40678568", "title": "Direct action", "text": "Direct action\n\nDirect action originated as a political activist term for economic and political acts in which the actors use their (e. g. economic or physical) power to directly reach certain goals of interest, in contrast to those actions that appeal to others (e. g. authorities) by, for instance, revealing an existing problem, highlighting an alternative, or demonstrating a possible solution. Both direct action and actions appealing to others can include nonviolent and violent activities which target persons, groups, or property deemed offensive to the action participants. Examples of nonviolent direct action (also known as nonviolence, nonviolent resistance, or civil resistance) can include (obstructing) sit-ins, strikes, workplace occupations, street blockades or hacktivism, while violent direct action may include political violence or assaults. Tactics such as sabotage and property destruction are sometimes considered violent. By contrast, electoral politics, diplomacy, negotiation, protests and arbitration are not usually described as direct action, as they are politically mediated. Non-violent actions are sometimes a form of civil disobedience, and may involve a degree of intentional law-breaking where persons place themselves in arrestable situations in order to make a political statement but other actions (such as strikes) may not violate criminal law.\n\nThe aim of direct action is to either obstruct another political agent or political organization from performing some practice to which the activists object, or to solve perceived problems which traditional societal institutions (governments, religious organizations or established trade unions) are not addressing to the satisfaction of the direct action participants.\n\nNon-violent direct action has historically been an assertive regular feature of the tactics employed by social movements, including Mahatma Gandhi's Indian Independence Movement and the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nDirect action tactics have been around for as long as conflicts have existed but it is not known when the term first appeared. The radical union the Industrial Workers of the World first mentioned the term \"direct action\" in a publication in reference to a Chicago strike conducted in 1910. Other noted historical practitioners of direct action include the American Civil Rights Movement, the Global Justice Movement, the Suffragettes, revolutionary Che Guevara, and certain environmental advocacy groups.\n\nAmerican anarchist Voltairine de Cleyre wrote an essay called \"Direct Action\" in 1912 which is widely cited today. In this essay, de Cleyre points to historical examples such as the Boston Tea Party and the American anti-slavery movement, noting that \"direct action has always been used, and has the historical sanction of the very people now reprobating it.\"\n\nIn his 1920 book, \"Direct Action\", William Mellor placed direct action firmly in the struggle between worker and employer for control \"over the economic life of society.\" Mellor defined direct action \"as the use of some form of economic power for securing of ends desired by those who possess that power.\" Mellor considered direct action a tool of both owners and workers and for this reason, he included within his definition lockouts and cartels, as well as strikes and sabotage. However, by this time the US anarchist and feminist Voltairine de Cleyre had already given a strong defense of direct action, linking it with struggles for civil rights:\n\nMartin Luther King felt that non-violent direct action's goal was to \"create such a crisis and foster such a tension\" as to demand a response.\nThe rhetoric of Martin Luther King, James Bevel, and Mohandas Gandhi promoted non-violent revolutionary direct action as a means to social change. Gandhi and Bevel had been strongly influenced by Leo Tolstoy's \"The Kingdom of God Is Within You\", which is considered a classic text that ideologically promotes passive resistance.\n\nBy the middle of the 20th century, the sphere of direct action had undoubtedly expanded, though the meaning of the term had perhaps contracted. Many campaigns for social change—such as those seeking suffrage, improved working conditions, civil rights, abortion rights or an end to abortion, an end to gentrification, and environmental protection—claim to employ at least some types of violent or nonviolent direct action.\n\nSome sections of the anti-nuclear movement used direct action, particularly during the 1980s. Groups opposing the introduction of cruise missiles into the United Kingdom employed tactics such as breaking into and occupying United States air bases, and blocking roads to prevent the movement of military convoys and disrupt military projects. In the US, mass protests opposed nuclear energy, weapons, and military intervention throughout the decade, resulting in thousands of arrests. Many groups also set up semi-permanent \"peace camps\" outside air bases such as Molesworth and Greenham Common, and at the Nevada Test Site.\n\nEnvironmental movement organizations such as Greenpeace have used direct action to pressure governments and companies to change environmental policies for years. On April 28, 2009, Greenpeace activists, including Phil Radford, scaled a crane across the street from the Department of State, calling on world leaders to address climate change. Soon thereafter, Greenpeace activists dropped a banner off of Mt. Rushmore, placing President Obama's face next to other historic presidents, which read \"History Honors Leaders; Stop Global Warming\". Overall, more than 2,600 people were arrested while protesting energy policy and associated health issues under the Barack Obama Administration.\n\nIn 2009, hundreds blocked the gates of the coal fired power plant that powers the US Congress building, following the Power Shift conference in Washington, D.C. In attendance at the Capitol Climate Action were Bill McKibben, Terry Tempest Williams, Phil Radford, Wendell Berry, Robert Kennedy Junior, Judy Bonds and many more prominent figures of the climate justice movement were in attendance.\n\nAnti-abortion groups in the United States, particularly Operation Rescue, often used non-violent sit-ins at the entrances of abortion clinics as a form of direct action in the late 1980s and early 1990s.\nAnti-globalization activists made headlines around the world in 1999, when they forced the Seattle WTO Ministerial Conference of 1999 to end early with direct action tactics. The goal that they had, shutting down the meetings, was directly accomplished by placing their bodies and other debris between the WTO delegates and the building they were meant to meet in. Activists also engaged in property destruction as a direct way of stating their opposition to corporate culture—this can be viewed as a direct action if the goal was to shut down those stores for a period of time, or an indirect action if the goal was influencing corporate policy.\n\nOne of the largest direct actions in recent years took place in San Francisco the day after the Iraq War began in 2003. Twenty-thousand people occupied the streets and over 2,000 people were arrested in affinity group actions throughout downtown San Francisco, home to military-related corporations such as Bechtel. (See March 20, 2003 anti-war protest).\n\nDirect action has also been used on a smaller scale. Refugee Salim Rambo was saved from being deported from the UK back to the Democratic Republic of the Congo when one person stood up on his flight and refused to sit down. After a two-hour delay the man was arrested, but the pilot refused to fly with Rambo on board. Salim Rambo was ultimately released from state custody and remains free today.\n\nNon-violent direct action (NVDA) is any form of direct action that does not rely on violent tactics, as opposed to \"principled nonviolence\", which is a positive force in its own right and involves active concern for the well being of the opponent even while resisting the latter's actions. Mohandas Gandhi's teachings of Satyagraha (or \"truth force\") have inspired many practitioners of nonviolent direct action, although the use of nonviolence does not always imply an ideological commitment to pacifism. In 1963, civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. described the goal of NVDA in his \"Letter from Birmingham Jail\":\n\nNonviolent direct action seeks to create such a crisis and foster such a tension that a community which has constantly refused to negotiate is forced to confront the issue. It seeks to so dramatize the issue that it can no longer be ignored.\n\nIn the United States, the term has largely come to signify civil disobedience, and protest in general. In the 1980s, a California direct action protest group called Livermore Action Group called its newspaper \"Direct Action\". The paper ran for 25 issues, and covered hundreds of nonviolent actions around the world. The book \"Direct Action: An Historical Novel\" took its name from this paper, and records dozens of actions in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nHuman rights activists have used direct action in the ongoing campaign to close the School of the Americas, renamed in 2001 the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation. As a result, 245 SOA Watch human rights defenders have collectively spent almost 100 years in prison. More than 50 people have served probation sentences.\n\n\"Direct Action\" has also served as the moniker of at least two groups: the French \"Action Directe\" as well as the Canadian group more popularly known as the Squamish Five. \"Direct Action\" is also the name of the magazine of the Australian Wobblies. The UK's Solidarity Federation currently publishes a magazine called \"Direct Action\".\n\nUntil 1990, Australia's Socialist Workers Party published a party paper also named \"Direct Action\", in honour of the Wobblies' history. One of the group's descendants, the Revolutionary Socialist Party, has again started a publication of this name.\n\nFood Not Bombs is often described as direct action because individuals involved directly act to solve a social problem; people are hungry and yet there is food available. Food Not Bombs is inherently dedicated to non-violence.\n\nA museum that chronicles the history of direct action and grassroots activism in the Lower East Side of New York City, the Museum of Reclaimed Urban Space, opened in 2012.\n\nViolent direct action is any direct action which utilizes physical injurious force against persons or, controversially (see below), property. Examples of violent direct action include: rioting, lynching, terrorism, political assassination, freeing political prisoners, interfering with police actions, armed insurrection, and arguably property destruction.\n\nAnn Hansen, one of the \"Squamish 5\", also known as \"Vancouver 5\", a Canadian anarchist and self-professed urban guerrilla fighter, wrote in her book \"\" that,\n\nOne major debate is whether destruction of property should be included within the realm of violence or nonviolence. This debate can be illustrated by the response to groups like the Earth Liberation Front and Animal Liberation Front, which use property destruction and sabotage as direct action tactics. Although these types of actions are often prosecuted as violence, those groups justify their actions by claiming that violence is harm directed towards living things and not property. The issue of whether sabotage is a form of violence is difficult to resolve in purely philosophical terms, but the use of sabotage as a methodology can be contrasted with minor property damage that is a small but necessary part of a non-violent campaign methodology such as breaking locks and fences to gain entry to a site. \nSome theorists and activists believe that a doctrine of diversity of tactics can resolve the controversy.\n\nUS and international law include acts against property in the definition of violence and state that even in a time of war, \"Destruction [of property] as an end in itself is a violation of international law\".\n\nThe environmental direct action movement in the United Kingdom started in 1990 with the forming of the first UK Earth First! group. The movement rapidly grew from the 1992 Twyford Down protests, culminating in 1997.\n\nThere are now several organisations in the United Kingdom campaigning for action on climate change that use non-violent direct action, including Camp for Climate Action, Plane Stupid and Greenpeace. This has resulted in environmental campaigners being labelled as extremists by the Ministry of Justice.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3879158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3879158", "title": "Elizabeth Farm", "text": "Elizabeth Farm\n\nElizabeth Farm is an historic estate located in Rosehill, a suburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Elizabeth Farm was the family home of wool pioneer, John and his wife Elizabeth Macarthur. The estate was commenced in 1793 on a slight hill overlooking the upper reaches of Parramatta River, west of Sydney Cove. This area belonged to the Burramattagal clan of the Dharug people, whose presence is recalled in the name Parramatta.\n\nThe small, solid three-roomed brick cottage in the Australian Old Colonial style was transformed, by the late 1820s, into a smart country house, surrounded by 'pleasure grounds', orchards and almost of semi-cleared land. Enveloped within later extensions, the early cottage remains intact, making it Australia's oldest surviving European dwelling. The estate is managed by Sydney Living Museums as a museum that is open to the public for a modest fee.\n\nOn 2 April 1999 the estate was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register, the first property entered on the register.\n\nElizabeth and John Macarthur arrived in 1790 with the Second Fleet. They brought with them contemporary ideas which formed the basis of their house and garden. In 1793 Governor Grose granted Macarthur 100 acres near Parramatta on the west side of \"Tipperary Farm\". This area would increase to 925 acres through grants and purchases by 1818 and proved to be almost 1100 acres when surveyed in 1881.\n\nThe building of Elizabeth Farm commenced in 1793. It was a brick single-storey building with four rooms, a hall, closets, and cellar with an adjoining kitchen, servants apartments and other necessary offices. It remained the Macarthur family residence and Elizabeth's home until her death in 1850. The Macarthurs occupied and continually extended the house grant as their family increased to nine children and their financial position grew. Around 1805 a bedroom behind the drawing room and verandahs was added. The third kitchen was built in 1820.\n\nFrom 1794 Macarthur became interested in raising sheep and began to selectively crossbreed his flock at Elizabeth Farm. The house was the scene of political and social activity including visits from many governors and their wives. Elizabeth managed the farm and their other properties during the years John was in England.\n\nIn his last twelve years Macarthur consulted pattern books and various architects and builders such as Henry Cooper and James Smith to prepare building plans.\n\nJohn Macarthur brought olive trees (Olea europaea cv.) to Sydney in 1805 and again in 1817. Although George Suttor had introduced olives to Australia earlier, in 1800 among a collection of plants from Sir Joseph Banks, these appear not to have survived. Macarthur's olives did. John, in exile in London over his involvement with the overthrow of Governor William Bligh, sensed the mood of the British administration - who were encouraged by Suttor's reports that New South Wales had potential for horticulture due to the local climate. Macarthur set off in 1815 on a tour of France and Switzerland to study \"the whole practice of the culture of the vine and the olive, and the making of the wine and the oil.\" By May 1816 he was back in London with a collection of vines and olives for shipment to Australia. He was certain that these would impress Lord Bathurst, secretary of state for the colonies, and assist his return to Australia, but it took a year to get the go-ahead. He arrived in September 1817 with a cargo of \"useful plants\" including two olives from Provence.\n\nFive years later Macarthur made an equally favourable impression on Commissioner John Bigge who was in NSW to investigate all aspects of colonial administration, including the development of agriculture and trade. Bigge observed that Macarthur's olive trees had assimilated well to the climate and that olive oil from NSW could prove a successful export product. The settlement's British cultural background and lack of experience growing olives (commercially) and competition from the wool production industry kept olive production in the shade. Two olive trees remain at Elizabeth Farm on the front (northern) lawn. It is unclear whether these date from 1805 or 1817 introductions. However they appear to be the earliest olive trees surviving in Australia and thus, despite Suttor's introduction in 1800, Macarthur could be credited with introducing or at least successfully establishing olives in Australia, leading (at least in the late 20th century) to a growing agricultural industry.\n\nIn the 1820s Macarthur added a separate two storey section to the rear, and built stables. The house additions used open planning with French doors leading to the verandahs and gardens. A few years later the verandahs may have been remodelled. A Doric columned north verandah in contrast to the treillage of the eastern verandah was added during 1826. Further extensions were made during 1826 and 1827, designed by Henry Cooper. Refacing of the servants quarters, possibly by John Verge, took place sometime around 1833. In this year John Macarthur moved to their property at Camden and died there in 1834.\n\nIn 1872 Edward Macarthur died leaving Elizabeth Farm to his niece Elizabeth Onslow, the daughter of his brother James, but allowing his wife Sarah a lifetime interest in it.\n\nThe Macarthur family sold Elizabeth Farm Estate in 1881. From 1852 Elizabeth Farm was occupied by various tenants and agents, including William Billyard, Crown Solicitor of NSW from 1875 until 1883.\n\nThe new owner, Septimus Stephen, subdivided the land and put the house block up for auction. There were further subdivisions in 1884. The house was leased variously as a boarding house and glue factory. It was purchased as a house and six acres by William and Elizabeth Swann and family in 1904 for the land value only. The house was in a state of dilapidation. They immediately proceeded to have it cleansed, disinfected and repaired. The family became an institution in Parramatta, their house based activities including music, education, a secretarial school and dental surgery. The Swann family owned and occupied the house until 1968 when it was purchased by the Elizabeth Farm Management Trust.\n\nA Friends of Elizabeth Farm group formed well before the formation of the Historic Houses Trust of New South Wales.\n\nIn 1973 the State Planning Authority assumed control of Elizabeth Farm. Between 1978 and 1983 the Public Works Department and the Heritage Council of NSW restored the buildings, which were considered important as a record of the oldest surviving examples of colonial construction techniques in Australia.\n\nArchitectural documentation and conservation works on the buildings were supervised by project architect Ian Sansom, Government Architect's Branch. Conservation policy and landscape proposals for the garden and grounds were developed by the Landscape Section, Government Architect's Branch, in consultation with the Historic Houses Trust (HHT) and Heritage and Conservation Branch.\n\nA. W. Edwards P/L was engaged to carry out restoration of lath and plaster work. A detailed property title search was carried out. Anne Bickford, archaeologist was engaged to continue research, particularly in regard to the carriage way and former outbuildings. Discussions continued with the HHT regarding its likely requirements for ancillary facilities on the site. Consultation continued with Parramatta City Council re future management of the reserve surrounding Elizabeth Farm.\n\nA draft conservation plan was prepared by the HHT in 1982. The HC SR Committee formed a sub-committee with representatives of the Heritage & Conservation Branch, HHT and co-opted members to increase involvement of the HHT in works being carried out with a view to eventual transfer of the property to the Trust for management as a house museum.\n\nThe site was transferred to the Historic Houses Trust of NSW in 1983 and opened to the public as a house museum in 1984. Since then the Friends of the Historic Houses Trust has raised funds to allow entry display refurbishment, lighting and iPad interpretation ($38,000), soft-furnishings ($33,000) and reproduction of Elizabeth Macarthur's ivory workbox ($8000) as well as organising and supporting the successful annual Festival of the Olive event, which attracts a wide range of visitors to the property.\n\nElizabeth Farm House is a single-storey late 18th century English vernacular cottage with a pair of sash windows either side of the front door and four box-like rooms. Extensions since the initial building phase have increased the number of rooms The walls are hand pressed clay bricks rendered and coursed to simulate stone. Ironbark floors and cedar joinery compliment the plaster walls. The original shingled hipped roof is continuous over the front verandah which is now clad with corrugated iron and supported by cast iron columns. The garden contains many trees planted by Elizabeth Macarthur, araucarias, kurrajongs, a Chinese elm and a pair of olive trees.\n\nElizabeth Farm comprises three connecting buildings - the main house, a rendered brick verandahed bungalow with shingled roof under painted galvanised iron, single storeyed kitchen wing, two cellars and a two storeyed servants quarters with dairy and laundry on almost one hectare of land. It is bounded by Alice Street and the Elizabeth Farm Reserve adjoining Alice, Alfred and Arthur Streets, Parramatta near the Parramatta River. A timber shed (the remains of outbuildings) purpose built tearooms and amenities block are subsidiary structures. test\n\nIt was reported to be in good physical condition, with medium archaeological potential, as at 24 March 2016. Elizabeth Farm House has a relative intactness of form, interior spaces and detailing pre-dating 1834.\n\n\nThe homestead, now a house museum, is creatively furnished with props and copies of objects known to belong to the Macarthurs of Elizabeth Farm. Impressive cedar joinery has been restored while carefully reproduced paint schemes, fabrics and floor coverings provide an authentic impression of this early 19th-century household. The Macarthurs' garden of native and exotic ornamentals, fruit trees and vegetables has been recreated around original plantings and archaeological features dating to the early 19th century.\n\nAvoiding the use of rope barriers and screens, an innovative 'hands on' approach encourages visitors to explore and interact with this evocative historical environment: sitting in chairs, leafing through letters, playing the piano or pulling up beside an open fire. Elizabeth Farm is open to the general public.\n\nElizabeth Farm is associated with major figures who were prominent in the 19th century development of the colony, including John and Elizabeth Macarthur, and the Swann family in the 20th century. There is a large surviving collection of documentary evidence connected to the house, which contains part of the oldest surviving European construction in Australia. The garden contains some of the earliest European plantings in Australia including a Chinese elm (Ulmus parvifolia), 1805-planted olive (Olea europaea), kurrajong (Brachychiton populneus), Bunya pine (Araucaria bidwillii) and hoop pine (Araucaria cunninghamii). It is an example of early colonial architecture and early agricultural experiments.\n\nThe property forms the core of a major historic farm estate which was highly influential in the development of the wool industry in Australia, the introduction and acclimatisation of plants and economic crops such as olives and vines. By its size, location and history of subdivision the property was influential on the development of the town of Parramatta.\n\nThe property is also significant in the history of conservation in NSW, being the first to be preserved by direct acquisition by the State Government, and the second property to have a permanent conservation order placed over it under the Heritage Act 1977.\n\nElizabeth Farm was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.\n\nElizabeth Farm is significant because of its association with major figures, in particular Elizabeth and John Macarthur, who were prominent in the early 19th century agricultural, political, cultural and architectural development of the colony.\n\nIt was the centre of an estate on which some of the first experiments in pastoral and agricultural land use in Australia took place, particularly in the early development of the wool industry.\n\nIt is associated with the Swann family for over sixty years, including their preservation of the buildings.\n\nThe farm house is part of a group of early colonial buildings (including Old Government House, Hambledon Cottage and Experiment Farm) which reflect Parramatta's importance as an early agricultural area and as the second most important settlement in the colony.\n\nThe house's range of building styles reflect the adaption of traditional European architecture to the prevailing Australian climate.\n\nThe house is a record of the architectural ideas and ambitions of the colony's first fifty years.\n\nThe house shows growth from a vernacular cottage to a comfortable family home with some sophisticated detailing, all reflecting the development of colonial life.\n\nThe house is representative of the work of architects Henry Cooper and John Verge.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.\n\nThe house is one of the most evocative houses relating to the earliest period of Australian European history and is one of the most aesthetically pleasing of colonial bungalows.\n\nThe place has strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.\n\nThe farm has strong links with the Parramatta community.\n\nThe place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nThe garden contains remnants of some of the earliest European plantings in Australia, including the European Olive. Older indigenous species include kurrajong and bunya bunya and hoop pines.\n\nThe farm has a large surviving collection of original documentary evidence relating to the house and its occupants, and the existence of some of the earliest provenanced furniture.\n\nThe house is an example of the development of Australian building methods in the late 18th and early 19th centuries.\nThe place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.\n\nThe Elizabeth Farm house is part of the oldest surviving construction in Australia and a rare survival of the earliest period of colonial architecture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25893091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25893091", "title": "Exit Through the Gift Shop", "text": "Exit Through the Gift Shop\n\nExit Through the Gift Shop: A Banksy Film is a 2010 British documentary film, directed by street artist Banksy. It tells the story of Thierry Guetta, a French immigrant in Los Angeles, and his obsession with street art. The film charts Guetta's constant documenting of his every waking moment on film, from a chance encounter with his cousin, the artist Invader, to his introduction to a host of street artists with a focus on Shepard Fairey and Banksy, whose anonymity is preserved by obscuring his face and altering his voice, to Guetta's eventual fame as a street artist himself. It is narrated by Rhys Ifans. The music is by Geoff Barrow. It includes Richard Hawley's \"Tonight The Streets Are Ours\".\n\nThe film premiered at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival on 24 January 2010, and it was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature.\n\nSince its release, there has been extensive debate over whether the documentary is genuine or a mockumentary, although Banksy answered \"Yes\" when asked if the film is real.\n\nThierry Guetta is a French immigrant living in Los Angeles who runs a vintage clothing shop. He also has an obsession with carrying a camera everywhere and constantly filming his surroundings. On a holiday in France, he discovers his cousin is Invader, an internationally known street artist. Thierry finds this fascinating, and accompanies Invader and his friends, including the artists Monsieur André and Zevs on their nocturnal adventures, documenting their activities. A few months later, Invader visits Thierry in LA, and arranges a meeting with Shepard Fairey. Thierry continues filming Fairey's activities even after Invader has returned home to France. While Fairey is confused by Thierry's enthusiasm, Thierry states that he wishes to make a complete documentary about street art, and the two cross the nation, filming other artists at work, including Poster Boy, Seizer, Neck Face, Sweet Toof, Cyclops, Ron English, Dotmasters, Swoon, Azil, Borf and Buff Monster. What Guetta fails to tell Fairey is that he has no plan to compile his footage into an actual film, and never looks at his footage.\n\nGuetta continues to hear more about Banksy—a prominent and particularly secretive artist. His attempts to contact Banksy are unsuccessful, until one day Banksy visits LA without his usual accomplice, who is refused entry to the US. Stuck in LA without a guide, Banksy contacts Fairey, who calls Guetta. Guetta becomes Banksy's guide in LA, later following him back to England, winning the privilege to film Banksy on his home turf—a feat that confuses Banksy's crew. Banksy, however, sees the opportunity to document street art, which he recognizes as having a \"short life span\", and after Guetta aids him in recording both production, deployment and crowd reactions to his \"Murdered Phone-box\" piece, asks him to film the preparations for his \"Barely Legal\" show. The two become friends, as Guetta provides Banksy with some relief from his anonymity. Returning to LA, Guetta becomes bored, and eventually produces his own stickers and decals, putting them up in the city.\n\nBanksy's show is being prepared in Skid Row, Los Angeles, and while in LA, Banksy decides deploying a Guantanamo Bay detainee doll in Disneyland. He visits the location and places the doll while Guetta films it. A short while later, however, the rides stop, and the park's security catch Guetta, who is taken to an interrogation room, while Banksy switches clothes and blends into the crowd. During interrogation, Guetta refuses to admit any wrongdoing, and when allowed a phone call, covertly alerts Banksy to his situation. When confronted by security personnel, he destroys the evidence in his stills camera, but stashes the videotape in his sock and is eventually let go, much to the amazement of Banksy who then says he trusts him implicitly because of the incident.\n\nA few days later, \"Barely Legal\" opens, and becomes an overnight success. Street art prices begin to rocket in auction houses. Banksy is stunned by the sudden hype surrounding street art, and urges Guetta to finish his supposed documentary. Guetta begins to edit together the several thousand hours of footage, and produces a film titled \"Life Remote Control.\" The result is 90 minutes of distorted fast cutting about random themes. Banksy questions Guetta's ability as a filmmaker, deeming his product \"unwatchable\", but realizes the street art footage itself is valuable. Banksy decides to try producing a film himself. To ensure that Guetta remains occupied, Banksy suggests he makes his own art show.\n\nGuetta accepts the assignment, adopting the name \"Mr. Brainwash\", putting up street art in the city and six months later, re-mortgaging his business to afford renting copious equipment and a complete production team to create pieces of art under his supervision. He rents a former CBS studio to prepare his first show, \"Life Is Beautiful\", and scales up his production to something much larger than Banksy suggested, but with little focus. When Guetta breaks his foot after falling off a ladder, Banksy realises that the show may become a trainwreck, and sends a few professionals to help Guetta out. While the producers take care of the practical side of the show, Guetta spends his time on more publicity, asking support from both Fairey and Banksy, eventually taping up huge billboards with their quotes, and ultimately ending up on the cover of \"LA Weekly.\" Preparation is seriously behind schedule, and Guetta's production team insists that he must make decisions—yet Guetta spends his time hyping up and marketing his work for tens of thousands of dollars. Eight hours before the opening, paintings are still missing from the walls, and since Guetta is busy giving interviews, the eventual layout of the show is decided by the crew itself.\n\nDespite all this, however, the show becomes a raging success with the crowd, and after the first week of the show, Guetta sells almost a million dollars' worth of art, with his pieces showing in galleries all around the world, to the utter confusion of both Fairey and Banksy. In an ending montage, Guetta insists that time will tell whether he is a real artist or not.\n\nBanksy has said in interviews that editing the film together was an arduous process, noting that \"I spent a year [...] watching footage of sweaty vandals falling off ladders\" and \"The film was made by a very small team. It would have been even smaller if the editors didn't keep having mental breakdowns. They went through over 10,000 hours of Thierry's tapes and got literally seconds of usable footage out of it.\" Producer Jaimie D'Cruz wrote in his production diary that obtaining the original tapes from Thierry was particularly complicated.\n\nFilm industry veterans John Sloss and Bart Walker founded a new distribution company to release the film in the US, Producers Distribution Agency (PDA). With a unique grassroots campaign, PDA brought the film to a US theatrical gross of $3.29MM. Oscilloscope Laboratories released \"Exit Through the Gift Shop\" on DVD and Blu-ray in 2011.\n\nThe film received overwhelmingly positive reviews. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 96%, based on 108 reviews, and an average rating of 8.1/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"An amusing, engrossing look at underground art, \"Exit Through the Gift Shop\" entertains as it deflates the myths and hype surrounding its subjects.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 85 out of 100, based on 27 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim\". It was also nominated for Best Documentary in the 2011 Academy Awards.\n\nNew York Film Critics Online bestowed its Best Documentary Award on the film in 2010. French journalist Marjolaine Gout gave it 4 stars out of 5, linking Mr. Brainwash and Jeff Koons and criticizing Thierry Guetta's art as toilet papering.\n\nOne consistent theme in the reviews was the authenticity of the film: Was the film just an elaborate ruse on Banksy's part, or did Guetta really evolve into Mr. Brainwash overnight? \"The Boston Globe\" movie reviewer Ty Burr found it to be quite entertaining and awarded it four stars. He dismissed the notion of the film being a \"put on\", saying that \"I'm not buying it; for one thing, this story's too good, too weirdly rich, to be made up. For another, the movie's gently amused scorn lands on everyone.\" Roger Ebert gave it 3.5 stars out of 4, writing: \"The widespread speculation that 'Exit Through the Gift Shop' is a hoax only adds to its fascination.\" In an interview with SuicideGirls, filmmakers Jaimie D'Cruz and Chris King denied that it was a hoax, and expressed their growing frustration with the speculation that it was: \"For a while we all thought that was quite funny, but it went on for so long. It was a bit disappointing when it became basically accepted as fact, that it was all just a silly hoax ... I felt it was a shame that the whole thing was going to be dismissed like that really because we knew it was true.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" movie reviewer Jeannette Catsoulis wrote that the film could be a new subgenre, a \"prankumentary\".\n\nGuetta in an interview said: \"This movie is 100% real. Banksy captured me becoming an artist. In the end, I became his biggest work of art.\"\n\nGuetta faced copyright issues following the release of the film. Glen Friedman, an American photographer, successfully sued Guetta over the use of a photograph of the rap group Run-DMC. Guetta tried to claim that he had altered it enough to be considered an original piece of art. However, the presiding judge over the case, Judge Pregerson, ultimately ruled Friedman's photograph was protected under the transformative fair use law. Guetta also faced copyright claims from Joachim Levy, a Swiss filmmaker, who edited and produced Guetta's film \"Life Remote Control\", clips of which were shown in the film. Levy was not credited for his work he did on the film; however, Guetta owned the footage which was then licensed to Banksy.\n\nThe film's opening montage includes archival footage from the following street art films: \"Dirty Hands: The Art and Crimes of David Choe\", \"Infamy\", \"Megpoid\", \"\", \"Open Air\", \"The Lyfe\", \"Popaganda: The Art and Crimes of Ron English\", \"Rash\", \"Restless Debt of the Third World\", \"Spending Time\", \"Turf War\", \"Elis G The Life of a Shadow\", \"Memoria Canalla\", \"C215 in London\", \"Beautiful Losers\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43331602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43331602", "title": "Geelong Maritime Museum", "text": "Geelong Maritime Museum\n\nThe Geelong Maritime Museum is a volunteer-run Community group or not-for-profit historical museum located at 'The Stables', Osborne House, Swinburn Street, North Geelong Victoria, Australia since 1993. The Museum was founded in about 1989, with ex Royal Navy Ldg. Tel, Robert Henry (Bob) Appleton OAM as the foundation Honorary Curator. The Museum collects and displays historic artefacts and documents related to the Maritime History of geelong and Victoria, and the history of the Victorian and Australian Navy's.\n\nThe Geelong Maritime Museum is housed in the renovated stables of Osborne House, which was built in 1858 for local squatter, Robert Muirhead. Following a number of private owners, the building was the purchased by the Victorian State Government in 1900 as country residence for the Governor of Victoria, but never used for this purpose. Instead, it was bought by the Geelong Harbour Trust in 1905, and subsequently became the first Australian Naval College from 1913 to 1915, a military hospital during the World War One, and the first home for the J Class Submarine of the Royal Australian Navy’s submarine service between 1919 and 1924. The Geelong Harbour Trust resumed control in 1929, and the Shire of Corio moved in in 1938. It was a training centre for the army during World War Two, followed by the Corio Shire Council from 1943 to 1995 when the shire merged with the City of Geelong.\n\nDisplays at the museum include scale models of ships that either visited Geelong or called the port home and relics of the trade and navigation, as well as uniforms, weaponry and other naval artefacts. Exhibitions also presents the HMVS Cerberus Gun Turret and the helm of the HMVS Nelson.\n\n"}
{"id": "51970012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51970012", "title": "Henry Coley", "text": "Henry Coley\n\nHenry Coley (18 October 1633 – 30 April 1704) was an astrologer and mathematician, and amanuensis of William Lilly.\n\nColey was born, as shown in an inscription round a portrait of him by Robert White, found in some of his works, on 18 October 1633 in Oxford. His father was a joiner. In 1648 he became a clerk in the Parliamentary army; in 1654 he moved to London and worked as a ladies' tailor in Gray's Inn Lane.\n\nIn 1656 he married and they had one child; in 1660, after his wife's death, he married again; their son born in 1661 died soon after birth. He taught himself mathematics, astrology, Latin and French. From 1663 he lived in Baldwins Gardens, where he taught astrology and mathematics, and received clients. By the 1670s he had a flourishing practice.\n\nIn 1669 Coley published \"Clavis Astrologiæ Elimata; or a Key to the whole Art of Astrology, new filed and polished\". It was well received. A second and enlarged edition was published in 1676; it was dedicated to Elias Ashmole, and included a tribute by William Lilly. In 1672, following the success of \"Clavis\", he published the first number of his almanac, and it appeared annually until his death.\n\nColey acted as William Lilly's amanuensis from 1677, when the latter was stricken with the illness of which he eventually died. The editor of Lilly's \"Autobiography\" tells us: \"His judgments and observations for the succeeding years till his death were all composed by his directions, Mr. Coley coming to Hersham the beginning of every summer, and stayed there till by conference with him he had despatched them for the press; to whom at these opportunities he communicated his way of judgment and other 'Arcana.\n\nLilly constantly makes reference in his works to Coley's merit as a man and as a professor of mathematics and occult science. On his death in 1681, Lilly bequeathed to him his almanac \"Merlini Anglici Ephemeris, or Astrological Judgment for the Year\", which had reached its thirty-sixth year of publication; from 1681 it was issued by Coley \"according to the method of Mr. Lilly.\"\n\nAfter Lilly's death, Coley continued to publish his predictions, as for instance, \"The great and wonderful Predictions of that late famous Astrologer, William Lilly, Mr. Partridge, and Mr. Coley concerning this present year 1683\". Coley attained considerable distinction as a mathematician: we are told by his almanac that he taught \"arithmetic, vulgar, decimal, and logarithmical, geometry, trigonometry, astronomy, navigation, the use of the celestial and terrestrial globes, dialling, surveying, gaging, measuring, and the art of astrology in all its branches,\" at Baldwins Gardens. He corrected and enlarged Joseph Moxon's \"Mathematics made easy\" (London, 1692), and also William Forster's \"Arithmetic, or that useful art made easie\" (London, 1686).\n\nColey died in London on 30 April 1704.\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "53797320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53797320", "title": "Identity Evropa", "text": "Identity Evropa\n\nIdentity Evropa () is an American neo-Nazi and white supremacist organization established in March 2016. The group is identified as a white supremacist organization by the Anti-Defamation League and is designated by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a hate group.\n\nLeaders and members of Identity Evropa, such as former leader Eli Mosley, have praised Nazi Germany and have openly pushed for what they say is the \"Nazification of America\".\n\nIn an attempt to boost its numbers, Identity Evropa has allied itself with the broader white nationalist alt-right and identitarian movements, and the group particularly targets college campuses, by distributing slogans on fliers, posters, and stickers. It is one of several groups which have contributed to the rapid growth of white nationalism in the U.S. since 2015.\n\nIn March 2018, it was reported that the group was seeing steep declines in membership. The collapse has been seen in other alt-right groups, and has been attributed to widespread public backlash against neo-Nazism and white supremacy since the 2017 Charlottesville rally.\n\nThe organization's founder, Nathan Damigo (), is a self-described member of the identitarian movement. Damigo grew up in San Jose, California, and was a member of the U.S. Marine Corps from 2004 to 2007. In November 2007, Damigo robbed a La Mesa, California, taxicab driver at gunpoint, believing that the man was Iraqi. Damigo was convicted of armed robbery and was incarcerated for a year in county jail and four years in state prison. He said of the event that \"it's something that I'm certainly not proud of,\" attributing his behavior to \"major issues\" after returning from Iraq.\n\nIn prison, Damigo began to read works by far-right figures, including former Imperial Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan David Duke. He was also influenced by J. Philippe Rushton and Nicholas Wade. After being released from prison in 2014, Damigo led the National Youth Front, the youth wing of the American Freedom Party. The group was classified as a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) and Anti-Defamation League, with the SPLC reporting that it was founded by \"racist Southern California skinheads that aims to deport immigrants and return the United States to white rule.\" The National Youth Front later disbanded. Damigo founded Identity Evropa in March 2016. His activities with \"racist organizations\" has been disavowed by his father.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Unite the Right rally, the leadership position passed onto Elliot Kline, aka Eli Mosley. The group participated in the planning for the October 19, 2017 speech by Richard B. Spencer, a white supremacist, at the University of Florida, where Mosley also spoke. In addition to Spencer and Mosley, the speakers included Mike Enoch, a white nationalist blogger. The event drew about 2,500 protestors, vastly outnumbering Spencer's supporters.\n\nIdentity Evropa is a neo-Nazi and white supremacist group; the organization espouses white supremacist and white separatist views. The group endorses racial segregation. It \"bills itself as a 'generation of awakened Europeans' who 'oppose those who would defame our history and rich cultural heritage'\". Damigo describes it as \"an identitarian organization\" and says that the group's aim is to \"act as a fifth column, over time shifting the edifice of our political establishment\" in favor of what he describes as \"pro-white\" interests. Identity Evropa's spokesman and director of administration, Reinhard Wolff, states that Identity Evropa is engaged in a \"culture war\" in an effort to create a \"90 percent white\" America.\n\nThe white supremacist slogan \"You will not replace us\" originated from the group, according to the Anti-Defamation League, after Damigo and other members of Identity Evropa appeared on camera chanting the words during LaBeouf, Rönkkö & Turner's \"HEWILLNOTDIVIDE.US\" project at New York's Museum of the Moving Image in February 2017.\n\nIdentity Evropa excludes Jews from membership because Damigo regards Jews as non-white. Only those \"of European, non-Semitic heritage\" may join the group. Damigo claims that \"Jewish power, Jewish influence\" has \"been extraordinarily negative for people of European heritage\". He has refused to say whether he acknowledges the Holocaust.\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League has labeled Identity Evropa a white supremacist group, and the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), which tracks extremist groups in the United States, has designated it as a hate group. Their campus-centric advertising posters depict photos of classical Greek sculptures of men overlaid with various short slogans which urge whites to embrace cultural elitism. Mark Potok, a senior fellow at the SPLC, states, \"Identity Evropa is merely the latest iteration of the white-supremacist movement. Although you might think, based on their propaganda, that they're all about Plato and Aristotle and Socrates, in fact they're merely a gussied-up version of the Klan.\" Anna North, writing in the \"New York Times\", states that the group promotes racism under the guise of white racial pride and cultural identity for those who are of European ancestry.\n\nIn December 2016, the group had roughly 200 members. In a February 2017 interview, Damigo claimed a membership of 300. The group has distributed fliers on dozens of colleges campuses, including the University of Massachusetts Amherst, UCLA, University of California, San Diego, Penn State, Ohio State, and the University of Washington. According to an ADL count, Identity Evropa was by far the most active white supremacist group on college campuses in 2017, responsible for 158 of the 346 incidents nationwide of the posting of white supremacist propaganda fliers. These fliers typically show photos of classical and neoclassical sculpture. According to art critic Ben Davis, the random use of dissimilar photos demonstrates a poor understanding of European culture and art history. \n\nAt Ohio State, the group has considered seeking recognized student organization status. The group's \"#ProjectSiege\" aims to \"siege\" college campuses with literature in order to combat what Damigo describes as a \"false anti-white narrative\" by teachers, whom Damigo calls \"charlatans.\"\n\nIn late 2016, Damigo and Identity Evropa members traveled to Washington, D.C., for a post-election conference hosted by the white supremacist National Policy Institute, at which keynote speaker Richard B. Spencer and several other attendees rendered a Nazi salute.\n\nDuring the 2017 Berkeley protests, Damigo punched a young woman, captured on video that subsequently went viral. Footage showed Damigo punching the woman in the face, then running away into the crowd. The attack prompted calls for Damigo's arrest or expulsion from Cal State Stanislaus, where he is a student; the university subsequently said that it was investigating Damigo.\n\nDamigo has been identified as a leader in the August 2017 Unite the Right rally. A news source that has interviewed him states that \"Damigo has made these rallies a key driver for recruiting new members of the group\". Additionally, Peter Cvjetanovic, one of the members of Identity Evropa, was dubbed as the \"angry torch guy\" in the Unite the Right rally.\n\nOn July 28, 2018, around 45 members of Identity Evropa, some dressed as construction workers, demonstrated outside the Mexican consulate in Manhattan, New York City, holding large letters that spelled out \"Build the Wall\". The government of Mexico said it had written a diplomatic note to the U.S. State Department protesting the incident. Later that day, a group of several dozen Identity Evropa members hung a banner in Fort Tryon Park in Upper Manhattan. The banner, which said \"Stop the invasion, end immigration\", overlooked the Henry Hudson Parkway. The response of the Washington Heights and Inwood communities was to hold a \"vigil against hate\" at the same site on July 31.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34942212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34942212", "title": "Jackie French bibliography", "text": "Jackie French bibliography\n\nThis is a list of books by Australian author Jackie French (born 1953).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"illustrated by Sarah Baron\"\n\n\n\"illustrated by Victoria Clutterbuck\"\n\n\n\"illustrated by Stephen Michael King\"\n\n\n\n\"illustrated by Andrea F. Potter\"\n\n\n\"illustrated by Stephen Michael King\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\"illustrated by Peter Sheehan\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16831098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16831098", "title": "Java backporting tools", "text": "Java backporting tools\n\nJava backporting tools are programs (usually written in Java) that convert Java classes bytecodes from one version of the Java Platform to an older one (for example Java 5.0 backported to 1.4).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2748816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2748816", "title": "Krsnik (vampire hunter)", "text": "Krsnik (vampire hunter)\n\nA Krsnik or Kresnik is a type of vampire hunter, a shaman whose spirit wanders from the body in the form of an animal. The \"krsnik\" turns into an animal at night to fight off the \"kudlak\", his evil vampire antithesis, with the \"krsnik\" appearing as a white animal and the \"kudlak\" as a black one. The \"krsnik\" 's soul leaves the body, either voluntarily or due to a higher power, to fight evil agents and ensure good harvest, health, and happiness.\n\nThe legend evolved from a pre-Christian myth present in Slovenia and Croatia (mainly Istria and the islands), where the celestial pagan god Perun is locked in eternal combat with the evil snake of the underworld, Veles. The \"krsnik\" is taught magic by \"Vile\" (fairies), and in traditional medicine has the ability to heal people and cattle. However, due to the undocumented nature of oral tradition, it's difficult to determine with certainty how much of \"kresnik\" folklore originated from Slavic mythology (\"Kresnik (deity)\"), and how much arose from a separate shamanistic tradition. After Christianization, the \"kresnik\" instead was claimed to have learned magic at the School of Black Magic in Babylon, but retained benevolent traits as a generous and powerful friend of the poor. \n\nThe origin of the name may be from the word \"krst\", which means \"cross\", and which in Serbia is the word for a stone sign denoting village boundaries. It may also be derived from the same root as the Slav word for \"resurrection,\" so that the word itself means something approximating \"resurrector.\" \n\nSimilar beliefs circulated among the Italian Benandanti cult. Also see zduhać.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12974999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12974999", "title": "Leroy McGuirk", "text": "Leroy McGuirk\n\nLeroy Michael McGuirk (December 13, 1910 - September 9, 1988) was an American wrestler and professional wrestling promoter. He was involved in professional wrestling for more than fifty years. As one of the longest surviving members of the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), he was affiliated with the promotion from 1949 to 1982.\n\nHe was born in Garvin, Oklahoma. He suffered the loss of his father before he was twelve and had to endure the loss of sight in one of his eyes due to a swimming mishap. McGuirk overcame many adversities to persevere in wrestling. He started wrestling at Tulsa Central High School and competed at Oklahoma A&M from 1928 to 1932 under Edward Gallagher.\n\nDespite losing in the quarterfinals of the 1930 NCAA Tournament, McGuirk claimed the 155-pound title at the 1931 NCAA Tournament on March 28 in Providence. A year later, McGuirk competed in the 1932 NCAA Tournament at 174 pounds.\n\nAfter graduation from college, McGuirk went to work for Sam Avey. On March 5, 1934, he beat Hugh Nichols in Tulsa for the NWA World Light Heavyweight Championship. He was also endorsed by the National Wrestling Association.\n\nMcGuirk enjoyed several runs as champion. On May 16, 1938, McGuirk beat Danny McShain to capture his second world light heavyweight title. The National Wrestling Association had a 190-pound title (later raised to 200) that was known as the World Junior Heavyweight Championship. McGuirk won this title on June 19, 1939 from John Swenski.\n\nBetween Tulsa and Hollywood, McGuirk dominated the Junior Heavyweight division, but at least three other Junior Heavyweight Champions were recognized at the time. On December 28, 1949, McGuirk unified the National Wrestling Association World Junior Heavyweight Championship with the National Wrestling Alliance’s version by defeating Billy Goelz in Des Moines.\n\nLeroy McGuirk is credited as the longest male single's champion of all time. He captured the National Wrestling Association World Junior Heavyweight Title on 6-19-1939 and had to vacate the title on 2-7-1950, for a title run of 3886 days (10yr-7m-19d).\n\nOn February 7, 1950, McGuirk’s career came to an end. In Little Rock, Arkansas, McGuirk was being driven to a restaurant by his wrestling pupil, Robert \"Bob\" Clay. In an attempt to prevent a collision, Clay locked the car’s brakes, and McGuirk was thrown against the front windshield. McGuirk’s tinted glasses were shattered and the side of the glasses covering his good eye were fractured, blinding McGuirk permanently. It was another Oklahoman, Danny Hodge, who rose to prominence in the Junior Heavyweight field. By 1960, Hodge became the principal headliner for McGuirk.\n\nAfter the accident, Avey kept McGuirk as a partner. McGuirk became second vice-president of the NWA from September 1950 to August 1956, and from August 1959 to August 1960. Between 1957 and 1958, McGuirk was made an honorary vice-president. One of McGuirk’s first challenges as vice-president was to reconcile the promotional war that occurred between women’s wrestling promoters Billy Wolfe and his ex-wife Mildred Burke. McGuirk aligned himself with Burke and hoped to resolve the dispute at the September 1953 NWA meeting in Chicago.\n\nBy 1953, McGuirk was the primary booker for the junior heavyweight champion, while coordinating talent from southwestern Missouri to Little Rock, across Oklahoma, and into parts of Texas. Despite being the booker, McGuirk also took on the opportunity to train promising wrestlers. One of his most promising was eventual NWA World Heavyweight Champion Dick Hutton. In the May 10, 1953 edition of the \"Tulsa Daily World\", McGuirk said \"He has a fine chance to get into the big money brackets. He has a lot to learn, but has the natural qualifications, and I won’t be surprised at anything he may accomplish.\" Hutton did not disappoint, as he beat Lou Thesz on November 14, 1957 at Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto.\n\nAvey and McGuirk’s actual territory covered most of Oklahoma and Arkansas. Said territory also included Joplin and Springfield, Missouri, Shreveport, Louisiana, plus Wichita Falls, and Tyler, Texas. On January 4, 1958, McGuirk took over the entire business after Avey retired. Avey left wrestling to concentrate on his role as senior vice president of the Farmers and Merchants State Bank. One of the biggest issues McGuirk faced was the tension that occurred due to sporadic visits by world champion Buddy Rogers in the early 1960s. Many felt that the bigger promoters were locked in for visits by Rogers while territories such as McGuirk’s, Jim Crockett in Charlotte, Karl Sarpolis in Amarillo, and Cowboy Luttrall in Tampa, to name a few, were perceived as the non-essential territories.\n\nMcGuirk had many people who worked for him as matchmaker: Leo Voss, Sam Menacker, Rip Tyler, Wayne Martin, and George Scott. Of all those people, Cowboy Bill Watts played a big part in McGuirk’s promotion, both positively and negatively. His first real connection to McGuirk was in 1968, when McGuirk submitted the only vote in favor of passing the NWA Championship to him. McGuirk and Watts worked together to promote Oklahoma, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana in the late 1970s. On July 22, 1978, their joint promotion of a wrestling show at the Louisiana Superdome drew an estimated 31,000 fans and a gate of $140,000. A dispute between the two in August 1979 strained their friendship. While Watts incorporated Mid-South Sports Inc. and had agreements Jim Barnett, Eddie Graham, Fritz Von Erich, and Vincent J. McMahon that made the promotion thrive. McGuirk became desperate and hoped that George Scott would help keep the territory afloat.\n\nOn February 23, 1981, Watts filed documents to bring Mid-South to Tulsa. Matters worsened as seven wrestlers went on strike on August 21. Their grievance was that McGuirk had not paid them for the previous weeks work. Despite turning to Amarillo for wrestling talent, McGuirk saw the writing on the wall.\n\nIn 1982, McGuirk ceased operations and left the city open for Bill Watts and Mid-South Wrestling to take over. One of McGuirk’s daughters, Michael, better known in wrestling as Mike McGuirk, married B. Brian Blair, a wrestler for Mid-South. Both eventually worked for the World Wrestling Federation: Blair as one half of the tag team The Killer Bees, and Mike McGuirk as an in-ring announcer.\n\nMcGuirk was inducted into the Oklahoma Athletic Hall of Fame in 1977. He is also a member of the Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame. Of his charitable work, McGuirk is best known for working with Ed Lewis. They were responsible for instituting the NWA \"Leader Dogs for the Blind\" annual charity function.\n\nHe died on September 9, 1988 in Claremore.\n\n"}
{"id": "41724253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41724253", "title": "Library Božidar Kantušer", "text": "Library Božidar Kantušer\n\nThe Library Božidar Kantušer, formerly known as International Library of Contemporary Music (in French: Bibliothèque Internationale de Musique Contemporaine, B.I.M.C.), is a non-profit association chartered under the French 1901 Law on associations. It was created in 1968 to promote contemporary music by facilitating access to published and unpublished scores from around the world. For this purpose, the library centralizes (without aesthetic bias) and lists the scores, and then facilitates their discovery by computerized means. At its inception the association was subsidized by the City of Fontainebleau and the French Ministry of Culture, further by the City of Paris and the \"Ministry of Culture\". Since 2006, the collection of \"scores\" and recordings (more than 24,500 documents in 2012) is available in \"Paris\" at the Médiathèque Hector Berlioz and through its OPAC.\n\n« The dispersion of scores of music of our time among publishers throughout the world (and especially the fact that most of them remain in the form of manuscripts) represents an almost insurmountable obstacle for anyone wishing to obtain an exact idea of contemporary music production. Only an association of the persons actually concerned, that is to say the composers and \"music publishers\" themselves, supported by musicians and other music professionals could overcome this problem. » \n\nTo allow the consultation of the deposited works and to establish the database necessary for the distribution of information, the library proposes to centralize the published and unpublished works of contemporary music (from the twentieth century on) and their recordings. The deposit of scores and recordings is open to all composers, without aesthetic bias, to the exclusion of pieces solely dedicated to education. The library regularly stimulates composers and publishers in depositing their works, emphasizing the promotional importance of such a deposit. In an effort of multi-centralization, of creating various consultation sites, for a few years composers and publishers were asked to submit several copies of each score. Cooperation talks were underway with the Lincoln Center, and the effort was carried out in the form of a second center in Slovenia from 1975 to 1985 (the idea was revived in 1999, then abandoned). \n\nFor each submitted work, an index card was established and printed numerously. To allow multiple filing of each index card, the database for each deposited score contained the following information: name and surname of the composer, year and country of birth as well as nationality, title of the work, duration, year of composition, instrumentation (nomenclature), possibly the publisher and the year of publication. Subsequently the data appeared in printed directories, and was eventually entered on the site of the Médiathèque Hector Berlioz. In addition, a biographical file is opened for each composer and made accessible. All information often not being specified in the scores, one of the major tasks of the association is to obtain all the data needed to establish an entry.\n\nThe distribution of data permitting an objective and comprehensive information on contemporary works of music is done nowadays online through the \"OPAC\" of the Hector Berlioz Mediathèque. Previously, printed directories, presented in two volumes - one classified by instrumentation, the other in alphabetical order of composers, were regularly updated, reprinted and sent to subscribers around the world. They held and still hold an important place in music libraries (academic or public) in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia and Japan. Initially (starting 1968), the diffusion of information was done by sending card catalogs to subscribers, allowing multiple approaches and regular updates. The seven card catalogs offered to subscription were ordered alphabetically by composer name, by instrumentation, by nationality and alphabetically, by nationality and instrumentation, by the duration of the work, by year of composition, by publisher (unpublished works by instrumentation). One same \"index card\", printed numerously and corresponding to one score, appeared in seven different \"card catalogs\", allowing to discover each work by seven different accesses. Interested parties subscribed to one or more card catalog of their choice, updating their catalogs as and when new cards were shipped. Index cards were shipped to subscribers as new works were deposited in the library.\n\nAt its inception in 1968, composers such as Henri Dutilleux, André Jolivet, Darius Milhaud and Henri Sauguet gave their written support to the library. It also received a favorable press release, particularly in Les Lettres Françaises, or with Combat welcoming the fortunate initiative. Many musical institutions from around the world soon began to follow with interest the development of the association. The first headquarters of the B.I.M.C. was in \"Fontainebleau\". It was situated on the first floor of the Villa Lavaurs, the basement housing technical services such as a recording studio and a press. In the early 1970s the headquarters was transferred to \"Paris\". Until 2002, the library was situated along the Seine, on two floors of an annex to the Cité Internationale des Arts, and then moved to the CNR conservatory, rue de Madrid. Since 2006 the library is part of the Mediathèque Hector Berlioz at the Conservatoire de Paris. It was renamed \"Library Božidar Kantušer\" in honor of the composer Božidar Kantušer, one of its founding members and its director from 1968 to 1999. The other founding members of the association are Léon Barzin, Louis-Noël Belaubre, Jacques Phytilis, Jean-Jacques Werner, Pierre Wissmer, Didier Duclos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31592836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31592836", "title": "Linguistic Atlas of the Gulf States", "text": "Linguistic Atlas of the Gulf States\n\nThe Linguistic Atlas of the Gulf States, edited by Lee Pederson, is a linguistic map describing the dialects of the American Gulf States.\n"}
{"id": "12216163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12216163", "title": "List of airline codes (D)", "text": "List of airline codes (D)\n\n</onlyinclude>\n"}
{"id": "9484113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9484113", "title": "List of business and finance abbreviations", "text": "List of business and finance abbreviations\n\nThis is a list of business and finance abbreviations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44879340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44879340", "title": "Mantua Municipal Museum", "text": "Mantua Municipal Museum\n\nMantua Municipal Museum is a museum located in the José Martí street Mantua, Cuba. The building was constructed in 1901. It was established as a museum on 23 December 1980.\n\nIt has five rooms and holds several collections on local history and newspapers, and objects of the Cuban War of Independence and the 26th July Movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "48423230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48423230", "title": "Mariel Municipal Museum", "text": "Mariel Municipal Museum\n\nMariel Municipal Museum is a museum located in the 71st street in Mariel, Cuba. It was established as a museum on 30 December 1981.\n\nThe museum holds collections on history, weaponry, archeology, numismatics and decorative arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "8436535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8436535", "title": "Marshall Field", "text": "Marshall Field\n\nMarshall Field (August 18, 1834January 16, 1906) was an American entrepreneur and the founder of Marshall Field and Company, the Chicago-based department stores. His business was renowned for its then-exceptional level of quality and customer service. Field is also known for some of his philanthropic donations, providing funding for the Field Museum of Natural History and donating land for the campus of the University of Chicago.\n\nMarshall Field was born on a farm in Conway, Franklin County, Massachusetts, the son of John Field IV and wife Fidelia Nash. His family was descended from Puritans who had come to America as early as 1650.\n\nAt the age of 17, he moved to Pittsfield, Berkshire County, Massachusetts, where he first worked in a dry goods store. He left Massachusetts at the age of 18 for new opportunities in the rapidly expanding West. In 1856, at age 21, he went to live with his brother in Chicago, Illinois, and obtained employment at leading dry goods merchant Cooley, Wadsworth & Co., which was to become Cooley, Farwell & Co. in 1857.\n\nField quickly rose through the ranks of Cooley, Farwell & Co. In 1862 for financial reasons Cooley left the firm. That same year Field purchased a partnership and the firm reorganized as Farwell, Field & Co. John V. Farwell appreciated Field’s keen business acumen; however, when it came to personality, the two were very different. Field’s stuffy efficiency rode on Farwell’s more relaxed and cheery demeanor. At a time when business collaboration entailed extensive personal interaction, this partnership wouldn’t last long.\n\nIn January 1865, Field and a partner, Levi Leiter, accepted an offer to become senior partners at the dry goods establishment of Potter Palmer. The new firm became known as \"Field, Palmer, Leiter & Co.\" In 1867, after Field and Leiter could afford to buy him out, Palmer withdrew from the firm, and it was renamed \"Field, Leiter & Company.\" In 1867 Field, Leiter & Company reported revenues of $12 million. Like many Chicago businessman, Field's company was badly affected by the Great Chicago Fire of 1871, but reopened relatively quickly. The company also survived the Panic of 1873 because of their relatively low levels of debt. By 1881 Field had forced Leiter to sell his share of the business, and changed the store's name to \"Marshall Field and Company\".\n\nField took an early 19th-century consumer landscape that was centered around the principle of caveat emptor, or \"buyer beware\", and transformed it into a plush shopping experience fit for the Gilded Age. Unconditional refunds, consistent pricing and international imports are among the Field innovations that became standards in quality retailing. Field's employees were also instructed not to push products on uninterested customers as was common practice in stores of the period. The quotes \"Give the lady what she wants\" and \"The customer is always right\" are attributed to Field.\n\nThough most famous today for his retail business, during his lifetime his wholesale business made far more money. During the 1880s, Field's wholesale business generated 5 times more revenue than retail annually. The wholesale business even had its own landmark building, the Marshall Field's Wholesale Store, erected in 1887. Revenue from the Marshall Field's retail business did not surpass the company's wholesale business until after Field's death.\n\nField was highly suspicious of organized labor throughout his career, and prohibited unionization among his employees. During the time of the Haymarket Riot, the wives of the defendants initiated an appeal, to which all of the local businessmen agreed except for Field. Journalist and reformer Henry Demarest Lloyd led a national campaign to grant clemency. Even bankers like Lyman J. Gage favored clemency, believing that moderation would lead to improved relations between capital and labor. Potter Palmer and Charles Hutchinson were inclined to agree, but Marshall Field was not. A number of other men confided to Gage that they were not willing to publicly disagree with Field, the wealthiest and most powerful businessman in Chicago. Field would also oppose organized labor during the Teamster's Strike in 1905.\nField avoided political and social intrigue, instead focusing on his work and on supporting his family and his favorite philanthropies. Field was a very active member of The Commercial Club of Chicago and the Jekyll Island Club aka The Millionaires Club on Jekyll Island, Georgia.\n\nField married twice. In 1863, he married Nannie Douglas Scott of Ironton, Ohio. They had two sons and a daughter, but one son, Louis, died in 1866 as an infant. The surviving children were Marshall Field Jr. and Ethel Field. Their son, Marshall Jr. (1868–1905), married Albertine Huck, and they were the parents of Gwendolyn Mary Field, who married Sir Archibald Charles Edmonstone, 6th Baronet. Field's Ethel was married twice: first to Arthur Magie Tree, to whom she bore one son, Ronald Tree, and then in 1901 to David Beatty, 1st Earl Beatty, to whom she bore two sons, David Beatty, 2nd Earl Beatty and Peter.\n\nAfter the death of his first wife Nannie in 1896, Field married longtime friend Delia Spencer, widow Caton. They had no children together.\n\nField died in New York City, New York, on January 16, 1906 at age 71 from a case of pneumonia contracted after playing golf on New Year's Day with his nephew, his secretary and Abraham Lincoln’s oldest son Robert Todd. Field was buried on January 19. He was interred in the Graceland Cemetery in Chicago.\n\nAfter his death, Field's estate was to be held in trust for 40 years for his two grandsons, Henry Field and Marshall Field III. In 1905, Field's fortune was valued at $125 million. Henry Field died in 1917 and was thus unable to collect his inheritance, leaving the Field fortune in the hands of Marshall Field III.\n\nThe Field Museum of Natural History was named after him in 1894 after he gave it an endowment of one million dollars. Field was initially reluctant to do so, reportedly saying \"I don't know anything about a museum and I don't care to know anything about a museum. I'm not going to give you a million dollars.\" However he later relented after railroad supplies magnate Edward E. Ayer, another early benefactor (and later first president) of the museum, convinced Field that his everlasting legacy would be achieved by financing the project. The year after his death the Field Museum received a further $8,000,000 in accordance with his will.\n\nThe University of Chicago was founded by both Field and New York's John D. Rockefeller, to rival nearby Evanston's Northwestern University.\n\nA bust of Marshall Field stands aside other early 20th century Chicago industry magnates on the north riverbank on the Chicago River facing the Merchandise Mart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3464536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3464536", "title": "McLaughlin Planetarium", "text": "McLaughlin Planetarium\n\nThe McLaughlin Planetarium is a former working planetarium whose building occupies a space immediately to the south of the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto, at 100 Queen's Park. Founded by a grant from philanthropist Colonel R. Samuel McLaughlin, the facility was opened to the public on October 26, 1968. It had, for its time, a state-of-the-art electro-mechanical Zeiss planetarium projector that was used to project regular themed shows about the stars, planets, and cosmology for visitors. By the 1980s the planetarium's sound-system and domed ceiling were used to display dazzling music-themed laser-light shows. The lower levels of the planetarium contained a gallery called the \"Astrocentre\" that featured space-related exhibits, related artifacts on the history of astronomy and was also home of the world's first commercial Stellarium\n\nStarting in 1978, there was a decline in attendance that lasted for four years while major construction was being undertaken at its sibling institution, the adjacent Royal Ontario Museum. This work also entailed the demolition of part of the planetarium's facilities. Though attendance picked up when the museum reopened in 1984, the planetarium was forced to close on November 5, 1995, due to provincial budget cuts to the museum. The planetarium's exhibits, artifacts and theatre facilities were subsequently dismantled and dispersed. For a brief period it housed the Children's Own Museum. It is now used solely for offices and as a storage facility for the museum.\n\nEarly in 2009, the R.O.M. announced that it had sold the building and site to the University of Toronto, which plans to demolish the existing building to make way for additional facilities. In September 2014, the university announced preliminary plans for new facilities to be built on the site.\n\nProposals for building a planetarium in Toronto date back to 1944, but serious planning only started in 1962, thanks to a bequest made by a former member of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada (RASC). In May 1964 the Chairman and the President of the University of Toronto gave their support for the idea to the RASC, and suggested a site near the existing Royal Ontario Museum, adding that significant financial support would have to come from outside the University to make it possible.\n\nIn November 1964 Canadian businessman Colonel R. Samuel McLaughlin announced plans for donating money directly towards establishing a planetarium in Toronto. He was inspired by the recent construction of the Hayden Planetarium in New York City, named after Charles Hayden, who had been a friend and associate on the board of International Nickel. McLaughlin donated $2 million for the building's construction, and gave an additional $1.15 million as an ongoing endowment. The University of Toronto, which owned and operated the Royal Ontario Museum prior to becoming a separate, provincially funded body, donated land adjacent to the museum. The building was constructed in an area that had formerly been a park belonging to the museum, and also required the demolition of a mansion at 86 Queens Park that had been the residence for the President of the University of Toronto.\n\nThe building was designed by architects Allward and Gouinlock and by the engineering firm Stone and Webster Canada, Ltd. in 1965. Colonel McLaughlin unveiled a model of the building at his 94th birthday celebration, which was held in his honour at the museum in September of that year. It was hoped that the building would be open by Canada's centennial in 1967, but construction delays forced the opening to October 26, 1968.\n\nIn addition to what was built, the original plans also called for a multi-story parking garage, a 550-seat conventional movie theatre, and a direct underground link to the Museum subway stop. These features were deemed too costly and were never built.\n\nThe building contained four floors: \n\nThe dominant feature of the building is the dome, which rises 25.3 meters (83 ft) from the ground, and has an outer diameter of 27.7 meters (91 ft). The dome structure is layered, with an outer waterproofed casing of reinforced concrete 4 centimeters (2.5 inches) thick, and an inner concrete dome that is insulated by a layer of urethane foam.\n\nThe projection dome was separate from the outer dome, and was 23 meters (75.4 ft) in diameter. Made of curved aluminum sheets, it was lap jointed to create a continuous spherical surface. The sheets were painted white and perforated with 2.5-millimeter (0.1 inch) holes, which were designed to let sound through and reduced echoes in the cavernous space.\n\nThe building had two main entrances: a main entrance at ground level that faced east onto Queen's Park Drive, and a connecting passageway from the Royal Ontario Museum from what used to be the Mineralogy Gallery. On the wall opposite from the ticket booth and coat check was an evocative quote from Dante Alighieri Divine Comedy. Admission to either facility allowed visitors to see exhibits in both buildings, though a planetarium show cost extra.\n\nThe planetarium projector was the focal piece of equipment at the planetarium. It was a Universal Projection Planetarium type 23/6, made by Kombinat VEB Carl Zeiss in Jena, in what was then East Germany. \n\nThe planetarium projector was a -long dumbbell-shaped object, with -diameter spheres attached at each end representing the night sky for the northern and southern hemispheres. Connecting the two spheres was a framework that held nearly 150 individual projectors, including those dedicated to the planets, the Sun, and specific stars.\n\nImprovements were made to the original planetarium projector over the years, allowing for special effects that could show close-up displays of specific planets, and the Sun and Moon projectors could replicate the experience of a solar or lunar eclipse.\nThe projector could be controlled by a console where an individual presenter would provide specific talks or lectures. By the mid-1970s, automation features were added, which led to the creation of prerecorded shows. Most visitors to the facility would have seen an automated 40- to 45-minute audio/visual show on a particular space-related topic. Two types of shows were typically alternated on a daily basis: one aimed at families with young children and another aimed at older children and adults. Typical shows aimed at both audience types were built around themes such as space travel, the mythical stories behind the constellations, and around Christmas-time, a show that investigated theories on stellar explanations for the Star of Bethlehem. A listing from 1970 includes shows titled \"The Story of Eclipses\", which looked at how solar eclipses occur and their scientific importance, \"Man and the Zodiac\" which explored the history of mythology and astrology with regard to the night sky, and \"The Planet Venus\" which surveyed the history of the planet in mythology, the planet's motion across the sky and featured imagined views from its surface.\n\nWhen plans were drawn up for a major expansion of the adjacent Royal Ontario Museum in the mid-1970s, it was initially assumed that the planetarium, then still a comparatively new facility, would be left untouched. As the scope of the expansion increased, it was realized that its north annex would need to be demolished in order to make way for the museum's need for a wing devoted to curatorial facilities. As a result, a theatre entrance, sound studio, workshop, passenger elevator and a third of the existing gallery area of the planetarium had to go. The remaining gallery area was removed in March 1978 to make space for temporary space to replace the workshop and studio.\n\nSignificant changes to the planetarium were made during this time, including the addition of a new spiral staircase that led straight to the Theatre of the Stars, an adjacent elevator for the elderly and disabled, and a larger gallery space on the second floor.\n\nThe planetarium remained at normal levels of service during this renovation period, but attendance dropped significantly, particularly when the adjacent museum was closed for a period of two years during the most intensive phase of its second major expansion. In all, the construction phase lasted for four years, from 1978 to 1982. In particular, some school groups that could justify the expense of seeing the museum and a planetarium show in a single day's outing had difficulty justifying a visit solely to the planetarium.\n\nSome of the automated \"star shows\" that appeared in this time interval include: \"Planets, Stars, and Galaxies\", a general show about our knowledge of astronomy at the time; \"Mars, the Journey Begins\", the story of the exploration of Mars (from prehistory to the then-present), and possible future plans for terraforming Mars; \"Beyond the 4th Dimension\", which explored, in layman's terms, the 4 dimensions of General Relativity, the Big Bang and inflation, and the new (at the time) theories of physics that postulated that space has up to 11 dimensions; some of these shows featured creative and novel sound tracks composed by composer-in-residence Mychael Danna.\n\nWhile the main attraction continued to be the astronomical shows put on during the day, in the early 1980s, regular laser light shows became a staple evening's entertainment in the city. Typical shows included \"Laser Floyd: Dark Side of the Moon\", \"Laser Zeppelin\", \"Sgt. Peppers Laser Light Show\" and later, such shows of more contemporary musical artists such as \"Laser Depeche Mode\", \"Laser NIN\" and \"Laser Nirvana\". These shows were held under the name \"Laserarium\" rather than that of the planetarium, though the laser-light and star shows were held in the same building. The laser shows were created by the Florida-based firm Audio Visual Imagineering, whose shows are also seen at other planetaria.\n\nCorporate events were promoted through The Planetcorp and included such events as a CTV Fall season launch as well as corporate AGMs of Sun Microsystems and product launches from NEC and other companies.\n\nOther exhibits in the revamped Astrocentre included a new 50-seat mini-theatre, wall murals illustrating the phases of the moon, plus an increasing number of hands-on exhibits and interactive computer-driven displays. There were also displays of astronomical globes, an orrery and pictures of the planets, many taken by contemporary space probes. The Astrocentre also featured the world's first commercial Stellarium, a slowly rotating display containing a 3D representation of almost a thousand stars in our immediate stellar neighbourhood.\n\nThe McLaughlin Planetarium was closed on November 5, 1995. The president of the ROM stated that the closure of the planetarium was due to a combination of falling attendance and a declining interest in space, and that the closure was necessitated by provincial budget cuts. The decision came as a surprise to many, as attendance had rebounded in recent years, and the planetarium was one of few in North America at the time that was turning a profit. The closure meant that 40 people lost their jobs.\n\nDespite the ROM citing lowered attendance figures, proponents of the planetarium have alleged that the Conservative Ontario provincial government of the time, led by Mike Harris, was looking for an instant and visible $600,000 cut to the ROM's operating budget. No succeeding provincial government has shown an interest in reversing this decision.\n\nShortly after the announcement, the exhibits, seating and wiring were dismantled or removed. Some of the signs and paintings were recovered by the RASC, which had a permanent workspace located within the facility, and are now on display at the E.C. Carr Astronomical Observatory in The Blue Mountains, Ontario and at David Dunlap Observatory in Richmond Hill, Ontario. The original Zeiss-Jena projector was bought as a museum piece by York University for the sum of $1, subsequently dismantled, and placed into storage. More recently, the University has offered the mothballed projector to other planetaria seeking parts to repair their existing electro-mechanical planetarium projectors.\n\nThe planetarium has been reopened for other purposes since it closed its doors as a planetarium in 1995. On March 5, 1998, an initial three-year agreement was signed that brought the Children's Own Museum to the second floor of the planetarium, where the Astrocentre used to be. Due to impending construction at the adjacent Royal Ontario Museum, the contract was not renewed in late 2002, and the Children's Own Museum has been looking for a new location ever since. During its three-year tenure in that building, it hosted nearly a half-million visitors. The institution still exists, though it currently (as of 2009) has no physical home. It is currently seeking suitable space to use in future endeavours. In the meantime the organization has participated in various children's events around the city.\n\nLater in 2002, a traveling exhibit of costumes, props and models used in the making of Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings trilogy ran for four weeks at the planetarium. This was the last public exhibition housed in the building. Up until 2007, the building has primarily served as office space and storage for exhibits that have been moved out of the R.O.M. while the Lee-Chin Crystal wing was under construction.\n\nEver since the planetarium's closing, there have been groups that have lobbied for its reopening. At first, efforts concentrated on reopening the existing facility, but in more recent years, the focus has shifted to establishing a wholly new permanent planetarium facility elsewhere in downtown Toronto. Smaller educational planetaria still exist in the Toronto region. At some time after 1995, Seneca College closed their Roberta Bondar Earth and Space Centre planetarium. The Ontario Science Centre on Don Mills Road operates a high-resolution digital planetarium with funding from CA, Inc., and the Royal Ontario Museum also offers a small, portable, inflatable planetarium for school groups.\n\nSince the closing, the Ontario Science Centre has taken over the McLaughlin Planetarium's role as Toronto's public planetarium, though using a much smaller facility.\n\nOn April 14, 2004, the directors put out a call \"for expressions of interest\" to redevelop the space occupied by the planetarium. Seeking additional funding to cover the costs of the second phase of the expansion and redevelopment of the museum, the directors of the museum had planned on erecting luxury condominiums on the space currently occupied by the planetarium. This proposal was dropped on November 7, 2005, due to extensive public opposition to the construction of a tall residential building in a district of low-rise public buildings., though it was reported that R.O.M. director William Thorsell was planning to revive the scheme to place a residential tower on the site.\n\nOn January 26, 2009, the R.O.M. announced that it had sold the building and the site for $22 million to the University of Toronto, who originally planned to demolish the existing building and build additional facilities for its law and business faculties.\n\nOn September 9, 2014, the University of Toronto announced a new museum and academic complex. It was to include the Jewish Museum of Canada, a Faculty of Music performance hall, research centres and History department academic space. In its early stages of planning and approvals the project lacked complete funding at the time of the announcement. In January 2016, the university announced it would proceed with construction of what is now to be called the Centre for Civilizations and Cultures, without the participation of the Jewish Museum of Canada because the UJA \"needed to focus on more pressing funding priorities.\" The project is to be designed by Diller Scofidio + Renfro of New York in collaboration with architectsAlliance of Toronto. The centre is to house the university's Department of History, its Department of Near and Middle Eastern Civilizations, the Institute of Islamic Studies and the research arm for the Tanenbaum Centre for Jewish Studies, and a new 250-seat performance hall for the university's Faculty of Music.\n\n\nIn the eponymous short story in the collection \"The Moons of Jupiter\" by Alice Munro, the protagonist visits the planetarium and takes in a show, and then goes on to visit the Royal Ontario Museum. She reports to her father, who is on his deathbed in a Toronto hospital, that she enjoyed the show but found the planetarium to be \"a slightly phony temple\" to the stars.\n\nIn the opening chapter of Robert J. Sawyer's science fiction novel \"Calculating God\", an alien spaceship lands directly in front of the McLaughlin Planetarium, prior to going on a tour of the exhibits in the Royal Ontario Museum.\n\n\"The McLaughlin Planetarium\", Henry C. King, Royal Ontario Museum, 1968. \n\n\nThe museum is affiliated with: CMA, CHIN, and Virtual Museum of Canada.\n"}
{"id": "4828425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4828425", "title": "Metacinema", "text": "Metacinema\n\nMetacinema, also meta-cinema, analogous to metafiction in literature, is a mode of filmmaking in which the film informs the audience that they are watching a work of fiction. Metacinema often references its own production, working against narrative conventions that aim to maintain the audience's suspension of disbelief. Elements of metacinema includes scenes where characters discuss the making of the film or where production equipment and facilities are shown.\n\nExamples of metacinema date back to the early days of narrative filmmaking. In the 1940s, backstage musicals and comedies like \"Road to Singapore\" (Victor Schertzinger, 1940) \"and Hellzapoppin'\" (H. C. Potter, 1941) exhibited a vogue for exploration of the medium of film at the same time as the monopolistic grip of Hollywood studios was loosening allowed more space for creative self-examination. Metacinema can be identified in art cinema of the 1960s like \"8½\" (Federico Fellini, 1963) or \"The Passion of Anna\" (Ingmar Bergman, 1969), and it can often be found in the self-reflexive filmmaking of the Nouvelle Vague in films like \"Le Mépris\" (Jean-Luc Godard, 1963) and \"Day for Night\" (François Truffaut, 1973).\n\nMetacinema continues to flourish in art films and comedies where experimentation with narrative conventions is encouraged.\n\nNotable examples of films of this type include (in chronological order):\n"}
{"id": "743170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=743170", "title": "Multi-field dictionary", "text": "Multi-field dictionary\n\nA multi-field dictionary is a specialized dictionary that has been designed and compiled to cover the terms within two or more subject fields. Multi-field dictionaries should be contrasted with single-field dictionaries and sub-field dictionaries.\n\nThe typology consisting of these three dictionaries is important for a number of reasons. First of all, a multi-field dictionary is an example of the ordinary technical dictionary, covering a large number of separate subject fields, e.g. banking, economics, finance, insurance and marketing. \n\nThe main problem with multi-field dictionaries is that they tend to cover one or two subjects extensively, whereas the vast majority of subject are only represented by a very limited number of terms.\n\nSecondly, the typical multi-field dictionary tends to be a minimizing dictionary, i.e. it covers only a limited number of terms within the subjects covered.\n\nThirdly, if the lexicographers intend to make a bilingual, maximizing multi-field dictionary they run into problems with the large amount of data that has to be included in the dictionary.\n\nConsequently, the best coverage of linguistic and extra-linguistic aspects within the subject field covered by a dictionary will be found in a single-field dictionary.\n\n"}
{"id": "49321299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49321299", "title": "Museo del Cine Pablo Ducros Hicken", "text": "Museo del Cine Pablo Ducros Hicken\n\nMuseo del Cine Pablo Ducros Hicken is a museum of cinema of Argentina located in Buenos Aires. It was established on 1971 and it holds a collection of 65,000 reels of film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "765535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765535", "title": "National Union (Portugal)", "text": "National Union (Portugal)\n\nThe National Union () was the sole legal party of the Estado Novo regime in Portugal. Ideologically the National Union was an authoritarian, clerical fascist organisation. It was dominated by António de Oliveira Salazar during most of its existence. Unlike in most single-party regimes, the National Union was more of a political arm of the government, rather than holding actual power over it.\n\nThe party was founded in 1930 during the period of the Ditadura Nacional. Officially it was not a political party, but an \"organisation of unity of all the Portuguese\". For the next 43 years, it effectively held a monopoly of power in the Estado Novo. The opposition Movement of Democratic Unity was legal between 1945 and 1948, but even then the political system was so heavily rigged that it had no realistic chance of winning.\n\nThe party won all seats in elections to the National Assembly of Portugal from 1934 to 1973. Opposition candidates were nominally allowed after 1945, but prematurely withdrew in the 1945 and 1973 legislative elections. In 1970, two years after Salazar had been replaced as leader and prime minister by Marcelo Caetano the name of the party was changed to Acção Nacional Popular (People's National Action), and subsequent to Salazar's retirement faced formal competition in the 1969 legislative election, nevertheless winning all constituencies in a landslide.\n\nThe party had no real philosophy apart from support for the regime. As a result, it melted away after the Portuguese Revolution of 1974. It has never been revived, and no party claiming to be its heir has won any seats in the Assembly of the Republic in modern Portugal.\n"}
{"id": "46239749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46239749", "title": "New York (Morand book)", "text": "New York (Morand book)\n\nNew York is a 1930 travel book by the French writer Paul Morand. Morand visited New York four times between 1925 and 1929 and shares his experiences from those trips, with a non-native reader in mind. An English translation by Hamish Miles was published in 1930.\n\nMorand's impressions of New York are both positive and negative. He disapproves of the upper class, the fashion, speakeasies and the area around Times Square. He is impressed by the City Hall and the buildings around Washington Square, which he regards as genuinely American and not false imitations of historical styles. He makes recurring references to the contemporary saying that \"the Jews own New York, the Irish run it, and the Negroes enjoy it\". In his conclusion, he writes: \"I love New York because it is the greatest city of the universe and because its people are the toughest, the only people who, after the war, went on building, and who do not merely live on the capital of the past, the only ones, besides Italy, who do not demolish but construct.\"\n\n\"The Saturday Review's\" Theodore Purdy, Jr. wrote about the book: \"There is a good deal in it that is inaccurate, and the spellings of American names are confused as only a French proofreader can confuse them, yet on the whole M. Morand has seen New York well and truly, as well as in the impeccable perspective of modernity which is so characteristic of all his work.\" Purdy wrote that the book, in 1930, already was out of date as a guide book, as the skyline, night clubs and fashions all had changed since the author's visits, but wrote: \"Yet the talent for assimilation, which has always been M. Morand's chief charm, as well as the great obstacle to his chance of writing anything lasting, is in this book ideally employed. Both the native and the passenger on an incoming liner may find things in his book which will bring the life of the city nearer and render it more understandable. In any case, M. Morand's interest in America is liable to repay both himself and the casual reader of his deceptively facile but extremely clever book.\"\n"}
{"id": "48436635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48436635", "title": "Panorama of Persia", "text": "Panorama of Persia\n\nPanorama of Persia officially \"Panorama of Persia En Route of the Extraordinary Embassy of Russia Headed by Lieutenant-General A. N. Kuropatkin, from Enzeli to Teheran\" is a painting by Pavel Yakovlevich Pyasetsky showing the way from Anzali to Tehran. It was finished in February 1895 in Ashgabat with paper, watercolour, white pigment and graphite pencil materials. It is now the property of the State Hermitage Museum.\n\nPavel Pyasetsky was among the members of the mission under command of Aleksey Kuropatkin. In 1895 Kuropatkin was bestowed the extraordinary Russian mission, called the Extraordinary Embassy to Persia in order to proclaim the accession to the throne of Nicholas II. Pavel Pyasetsky later painted his famous \"Panorama of Persia\".\n"}
{"id": "10279327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10279327", "title": "Prodromus Florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen", "text": "Prodromus Florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen\n\nProdromus Florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen (Prodromus of the Flora of New Holland and Van Diemen's Land) is a flora of Australia written by botanist Robert Brown and published in 1810. Often referred to as Prodromus Flora Novae Hollandiae, or by its standard botanical abbreviation Prodr. Fl. Nov. Holland., it was the first attempt at a survey of the Australian flora. It described over 2040 species, over half of which were published for the first time.\n\nBrown's \"Prodromus\" was originally published as Volume One, and following the \"Praemonenda\" (Preface), page numbering commences on page 145. Sales of the \"Prodromus\" were so poor, however, that Brown withdrew it from sale. Due to the commercial failure of the first volume, pages 1 to 144 were never issued, and Brown never produced the additional volumes that he had planned.\n\nIn 1813, a book of illustrations for the \"Prodromus\" was published separately by Ferdinand Bauer under the title \"Ferdinandi Bauer Illustrationes florae Novae Hollandiae sive icones generum quae in Prodromo florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen descripsit Robertus Brown\", usually referred to as \"Illustrationes Florae Novae Hollandiae\". The \"Prodromus\" itself was eventually reprinted in 1819, and a slightly modified second edition released in 1821. In 1830, Brown published a short supplement to the \"Prodromus\", entitled \"Supplementum Primum Prodromi Florae Novae Hollandiae\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4341561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4341561", "title": "Prévôt", "text": "Prévôt\n\nA prévôt () was a governmental position of varying importance in Ancien Régime France, typically referring to a civil officer, magistrate, head of cathedral or church, often anglicised as \"provost\". A unit of justice or court overseen by a \"prévôt\" was known as a \"\". \n\n\"Prévôt\" is a Middle French term that comes from the classical Latin \"praepositus\", meaning \"person placed in charge\" (literally \"positioned in the forefront\").\n\nThe word \"prévôt\" (provost) applied to a number of different persons in pre-Revolutionary France. The term referred to a seignorial officer in charge of managing burgh affairs and rural estates and, on a local level, customarily administered justice. \n\nTherefore, in Paris, for example, there existed both the \"Lord Provost of Paris\" who presided a lower royal court, as well as the very important and influential \"Provost of the Merchants\" (\"prévôt des marchands\"), i.e. the Dean of the City Guilds, who headed traditionally the City Council and the City's merchant companies, thus being de facto a kind of feudal mayor.\n\nIn addition to these two, there were \"Provost Marshals\" a.k.a. \"Provosts of the Marshals of France\" (\"Prévôts des Maréchaux de France\"), the \"Provost of the Royal Residence\" (\"Prévôt de l'Hôtel du Roi\"), later a.k.a. the \"Lord High Provost of France\" (\"Grand Prévôt de France\"), and the \"Provost General\" (\"Prévôt général\") later a.k.a. the \"Lord High Provost of the Mint\" (\"Grand Prévôt des Monnaies\" or \"de la Monnaie\"). \n\nThe role extended into New France, with and in the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nThe most important and best known provosts, as part of the King's personal aids administering the scattered parts of the royal domain, were the \"Royal Provosts\" (\"Prévôts royaux\"). The regional title of those provosts varied widely from province to province for traditional reasons: \"castellans\" (\"châtelains\") in Normandy and Burgundy and \"vicars\" (\"viguiers\") in the South. These titles were retained from earlier times when formerly independent provinces were conquered and subsumed under the French Crown. Royal provosts were created by the Capetian monarchy around the 11th century. Provosts replaced viscounts wherever a viscounty had not been made a fief, making it likely that the domainal provost position was fashioned after the corresponding ecclesiastical provost of cathedral chapters, a charge which was strongly developed in the same era.\n\nRoyal provostships were double faceted. Provosts were initially entrusted with royal power and carried out the royal part of local administration, including the collection of the Crown's domainal revenues and all taxes and duties owed to the King within a provostship's jurisdiction. Also, they were responsible for military defense such as raising local contingents for royal armies. \n\nAlso, the provosts administered justice with very limited judicial powers. For instance, they never had any jurisdiction over noblemen or feudal tenants (\"hommes de fief\") who instead fell under the jurisdiction of either a regional royal court (parlement) or their respective lord's court where they were tried before a jury of their peers, that is, the lord's other vassals. Provosts had no jurisdiction over purely rural areas, the \"pies pays\", which instead fell to local lordship jurisdiction or lower royal courts. Basically, Provost jurisdiction was restricted to minor and medium delinquency committed in towns under their control, but was often usurped by Burgh/City courts chaired by burgesses.\n\nUntil the end of the Old Feudal Regime (\"ancien régime\"), a number of \"Military Provost\" positions (\"Prévôts d'épée\", literally \"Provosts of the Sword\") survived until being replaced by other judging charges (e.g. lord lieutenants or military auditors) in administering military justice.\n\nSince the 11th century, the provosts tended increasingly to make their positions hereditary and thus became more difficult to control. One of the King's great officers, the Great Seneschal, became their supervisor. In the 12th century, the office of provost was put up for bidding, and thereafter provosts were farmers of revenues. The provost thus received the speculative right to collect the King's seignorial revenues within his provostship. This remained his primary role. Short-term appointments also helped stem the heritability of offices. Very early, however, certain provostships were bestowed \"en garde\", i.e., on condition the provost regularly render accounts to the King for his collections. Farmed provostships (\"prévôtes en ferme\") were naturally a source of abuse and oppression. Naturally, too, the people were discontent. Joinville told of how under St Louis the provostship of Paris became an accountable provostship (\"prévôté en garde\"). With the death of Louis XI, farmed provostships were still numerous and spurred a remonstrance from the States General in 1484. Charles VIII promised to abolish the office in 1493, but the office is mentioned in the Ordinance of 1498. They disappeared in the 16th century, by which time the provosts had become regular officials, their office, however, being purchasable.\n\nFurther oversight and weakening of provostships occurred when, to monitor their performance and curtail abuses, the Crown established itinerant justices known as bailies (\"bailli\", plural \"baillis\", from which is derived the English word \"Bailiff\") to hear complaints against them. With the office of Great Seneschal vacant after 1191, the bailies became stationary and established themselves as powerful officials superior to provosts. A bailie's district is called a bailliary (\"bailliage\") and included about half a dozen provostships (\"prévôtés\"). When previously impossible appeals of provost judgements were instituted by the Crown, that competence of appeal was given to the bailie. Moreover, in the 14th century, provosts no longer were in charge of collecting domainal revenues, except in farmed provostships, having instead yielded this responsibility to \"royal receivers\" (\"receveurs royaux\"). Raising local army contingents (\"ban\", draft; and \"arrière-ban\", reserve) also passed to bailies. Provosts therefore retained the sole function of inferior judges over vassals with original jurisdiction concurrent with bailies over claims against noblemen and actions reserved for royal courts (\"cas royaux\", royal cases). This followed a precedent established in the chief feudal courts in the 13th and 14th centuries in which summary provostship suits were distinct-guished from solemn bailliary sessions (\"assises\").\n\nThe provost as judge sat a single bench with sole judicial authority over his Court. He was, however, required to seek the advice of legally-qualified experts (cousellors or attorneys) of his choosing, and, in so doing, was said to \"summon his council\" (\"appelait à son conseil\"). In 1578, official magistrates (\"conseillers-magistrats\") were created, but were suppressed by the 1579 Ordinance of Blois. The office was restored in 1609 by simple decree of the King's Council, but it was opposed by the Parlement courts and seems to have been conferred in but few instances.\n\nFrench Provost Marshals were non-judicial officers (\"officiers de la robe courte\", literally \"officers of the short gown\") attached to the Marshalry (\"Maréchaussée\") which under the \"Old Regime\" was vested with police authority. It would be replaced after the Revolution of 1789 by the newly created \"Gendarmerie nationale\".\n\nOriginally, they were assigned to judge crimes committed by people in the army, but over the course of the 14th and 15th centuries, they gained the right to judge certain types of misdemeanors and felonies committed by the military and civilians alike. They became fixed with set areas of authority, and the offences falling within their jurisdiction came to be called provost crimes (\"cas prévôtaux\", literally \"provostal cases\"). Provost crimes included high violent crimes and crimes committed by repeat offenders (\"repris de justice\"), who were familiarly known as the \"gibier des prévôts des maréchaux\" (Provost Marshal jailbirds; literally \"Game of the Provosts of the Marshalls\"). They had military jurisdiction in regiments without \"Military Provost\" (\"Prévôt d'épée\"; see above), and their rulings were not appealable. However, the provost was required to consult a certain number of ordinary judges or \"masters of law\". As Presidial judges had concurrent jurisdiction with Provost Marshals for non-military cases, the two vied openly to be vested.\n\n"}
{"id": "46968805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46968805", "title": "Rymour Club", "text": "Rymour Club\n\nThe Rymour Club was founded at a meeting in Elder’s Hotel, Edinburgh on 8th May 1903. Over the next thirty years they would also meet at Mowbury House and the Outlook Tower, but their best known association is with John Knox’s House in the High Street (now the Scottish Storytelling Centre) and the Club‘s librarian, William J Hay – who was the curator for the House for over forty years – published several volumes of their Miscellanea and Transactions from there between 1906 and 1928.\n\nThe object of the Club was to collect, preserve and study traditional Scottish folk song, rhymes and popular lore. They took their name from Thomas Rymour, or Thomas the Rhymer, or Thomas of Erceldoune – the thirteenth-century Scottish seer who was reputed captured by the Queen of Elfland. This tale is related in the well-known Child ballad \"Thomas the Rhymer\" (Child 37).\n\nA history of Thomas Rymour by John Geddie – the journalist and ballad scholar – was written for and published by the Club and he also features in the frontespiece for the Club’s publications drawn by William Home, the first president of the Club and a noted artist, best known for his \"Old Houses in Edinburgh\".\n\nThe Club’s members included noted folk song scholars such as Robert Ford, John Fairlie and Alexander Keith and, most notably, Gavin Greig and the Reverend J B Duncan who, together, amassed the largest volume of folk songs ever collected in Scotland (from Aberdeenshire and the North-East). George Gardiner, born in Perthshire, but best known for his collection of songs from Hampshire was also a member, as were writers such as David Rorie, W S Crockett, and Lauchlan MacLean Watt, the bookseller James Hay Thin, and the popular entertainer Sir Harry Lauder, who became the first lifetime member, at the cost of five pounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "50226657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50226657", "title": "SciCrunch", "text": "SciCrunch\n\nSciCrunch is a collaboratively edited knowledge base about scientific resources, a community portal for researchers and a content management system for data and databases. It is intended to provide a common source of data to the research community and the data about Research Resource Identifiers (RRIDs), which can be used in scientific publications. In some respect, it is for science and scholarly publishing, what Wikidata is for Wikimedia Foundation projects. Hosted by the University of California, San Diego, SciCrunch was also designed to help communities of researchers create their own portals to provide access to resources, databases and tools of relevance to their research areas \n\nResearch Resource Identifiers (RRID) are supposed to be resource identifiers which are globally unique and persistent.\nThey were introduced and are promoted by the Resource Identification Initiative.\nResources in this context are research resources like reagents, tools or materials.\nAn example for such a resource would be a cell line used in an experiment.\nThe Resource Identification Portal (https://scicrunch.org/resources) was created in support of this initiative and is a central service where these identifiers can be searched and created.\n\nThe recommendation for citing research resources is shown below for key biological resources:\n\nThe Resource Identification Portal lists existing RRIDs and instructions for creating a new one if an RRID matching the resource does not already exist.\n\nA number of publishing houses, initiatives and research institutions encourage using SciCrunch‘s RRIDs:\n\n\nKnow More About SciCrunch and RRIDs: An Interview with Dr. Anita Bandrowski\n"}
{"id": "35545771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35545771", "title": "Smithsonian Marine Station at Fort Pierce", "text": "Smithsonian Marine Station at Fort Pierce\n\nThe Smithsonian Marine Station at Fort Pierce is a research center that specializes in Floridian marine ecosystems and lifeforms. The research is focused mostly on the Indian River Lagoon and also on the offshore waters of Florida's central and east coast. The first director of the station was Mary Rice, who was also instrumental in its founding.\n\nThe station is a part of the National Museum of Natural History, which is part of the Smithsonian Institution of Washington, D.C. Its purpose is to be a field station which will draw scientists and students from the Smithsonian and other institutions from around the world, in which they will investigate animals, plants, and physical processes of oceans and rivers. The information obtained at the station will be published in forms and scientific journals.\n\nIt also provides administrative and logistical management of the Caribbean Coral Reef Ecosystems Program, that is based at the Carrie Bow Cay Field Station. Both stations are important to the Smithsonian Marine Science Network.\n\nOne of the key features of the SMS is the Smithsonian Marine Ecosystems Exhibit. Their focus is on displaying ecosystems as complex communities of organisms interacting in their environment. At the Marine Ecosystems Exhibit, visitors can explore six different Florida marine habitats and learn about the complexity and importance of marine ecosystems. The largest aquarium is a model of a Caribbean coral reef. Other displays include living models of seagrass, mangrove, estuarine and nearshore habitats, as well as a deepwater Oculina coral reef. There are several smaller aquarium displays and a touch tank where you can meet some local sea creatures.\n"}
{"id": "45573838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45573838", "title": "Social breakdown thesis", "text": "Social breakdown thesis\n\nSocial breakdown thesis also known as the anomie–social breakdown thesis is a theory that posits that individuals that are socially isolated living in atomized socially disintegrated societies are particularly likely to support right-wing populist parties. According to social breakdown theory the fact that traditional social structures based on class and religion are breaking down individuals lack a sense of belonging and are attracted to ethnic nationalist parties because according to psychological research it leads to an increased sense of self-esteem and efficacy.\n\nSome studies have shown that support for the French Front National and the German Die Republikaner correlates positively with a high urban level of social isolation and low religious and trade union ties. A Dutch study has linked social isolation and support for the far-right.\n\nSocial breakdown thesis was at one time a popular theory to explain the rise of Nazism during the interwar years in Weimar Germany but fell out of favour after greater empirical research. Jens Rydgren argues that social breakdown theory has little empirical support within the academic literature on this topic. The academics Fella and Ruzza argue that a blanket social breakdown thesis is an insufficient explanation for the rise of far-right parties given the different voting profiles of European far-right parties. \n"}
{"id": "46200811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46200811", "title": "Storyville (magazine)", "text": "Storyville (magazine)\n\nStoryville was a British jazz magazine that ran from 1965 to 2003 featuring jazz history, discography, and record trading. It was published six times a year from October 1965 to December 1986 (issues 1 to 128), then quarterly from March 1987 to June 1995 (issues 129 to 162), then four volumes were published until 2003.\n\n\"Storyville\" was founded by Laurie Wright \"(né\" Lawrence D. Wright; 1929–2010). The publication has been acclaimed for containing a wealth of early historical material on jazz. And although \"Storyville\" was not officially a peer-reviewed journal — in part because, other than music librarians, few jazz scholars existed in academic research in 1965 — it was, nonetheless, peer-reviewed in reality by well-informed jazz enthusiasts, discographers, musicologists, and the like.\n\nSeparately from the magazine, Storyville Publications published books about jazz, notably discographies. Included were Wright's own works, the standard discographies, two volumes of Eric Townley's \"Tell Your Story; A Dictionary of Jazz and Blues Recordings 1917–1950,\" Tom Lord's bio-discography, \"Clarence Williams\" (1976), and several biographical and autobiographical memoirs of historic musicians. The last of these, published under Wright's name, was an autobiography, \"Trombone Man: Preston Jackson's Story\" (2005), after which ill-health forced Wright's retirement.\n\nDigital\n\nAll issues are digitally reproduced and available on the website of the National Jazz Archive, a charitable organization based in Loughton, England, by permission of Lauri Wright's Estate.\n\n\nLibrary codes\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8530469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8530469", "title": "The Guerilla Filmmakers Handbook", "text": "The Guerilla Filmmakers Handbook\n\nThe Guerilla Filmmakers Handbook is a bestselling textbook on low-budget and independent film production written by Chris Jones and Genevieve Jolliffe. Currently in its third edition, it consists primarily of interviews with filmmakers and case studies in filmmaking. The Handbook has become widely respected in the UK as a comprehensive filmmaking guide.\n\nJones and Jolliffe have also written three further books on film making. Chris Jones wrote The Guerilla Film Makers Movie Blueprint. Jones and Jolliffe also co-authored the US Guerilla Film Makers Handbook (aka Hollywood Handbook in the UK). Genevieve Jolliffe and Andrew Zinnes also wrote The Documentary Film Makers Handbook. Most recently the trio published the Guerilla Film Makers Pocketbook.\n\nJones and Jolliffe, the authors have made three low-budget movies: \"The Runner\" (1992), \"White Angel\" (1993) and \"Urban Ghost Story\" (1998). They also run courses in filmmaking through their production company, Living Spirit Pictures. Jolliffe now resides in Los Angeles, Jones now in Ealing, London, where their offices are based (Ealing Studios). Chris Jones recently directed an Oscars shortlisted short film, \"Gone Fishing\", which won awards at over 40 international film festivals.\n\nFilm makers who cite the Guerilla Film Makers Handbook and its follow up books as influential to them include Simon Cox, the Writer/Director of \"Kaleidoscope Man\" and Allin Kempthorne, the Writer/Director of \"The Vampires of Bloody Island\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8475553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8475553", "title": "Turkmenization", "text": "Turkmenization\n\nTurkmenization is the set of domestic policies the Niyazov administration used in Turkmenistan from 1991 to December 2006 to force ethnic minorities to adopt Turkmen culture. Those who resisted the state-sponsored cultural transformation were often deported.\n\nAntoine Blua of \"Radio Free Europe\" defined Turkmenization as the \"policy of the Turkmen government targeting the education, employment, and religion of all of the country's non-Turkmen ethnic groups.\"\n\nShukrat Babajanov and Khurmat Babadjanov of \"Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty\"'s Uzbek Service say that since Turkmenistan gained independence, the Niyazov administration has fired most non-ethnic Turkmen civil servants. Officials must prove they have three generations of Turkmen heritage before they are hired. Informal social control is used to ensure citizens speak Turkmen and wear traditional Turkmen clothing. Uzbek women who try to marry Turkmen men are exiled to Uzbekistan with their children. Babajanov and Babadjanov say these policies have led to the emigration of Russians, Kazakhs, and Uzbeks.\n\nIn a few instances Uzbek children in Turkmen schools have been instructed to wear Turkmen clothing or be expelled from school.\n\nZiyoda Ruzimova, an ethnic Uzbek woman who lived in Turkmenistan, married an ethnic Turkmen in 1994 and had four children. In order to attend public school in Turkmenistan parents must register their child's birth with the government. Ruzimova did not register her marriage or her children's births at the time. When she tried to get a marriage license in February 2006, she says the government of Turkmenistan brought her and her children to the Shovat border post and turned her family over to Uzbek border guards. Ruzimova says her family had no money but the border guards gave her 1,000 soms (USD $0.85). \"Then they called a taxi to take us [to my grandmother's home].\" At the border the Uzbek guards kept her family on a grate where they slept. \"For the children, they provided a piece of fabric; the children got a mattress, but I slept on the cement.\"\n\nMahmud Tangriberganov, head of the Gozovot village council, expressed opposition to Turkmenistan's policies, saying, \"These are our relatives; these are Uzbeks. And they say that because you are Uzbek, you must leave. Why didn't [the authorities] register their marriages, the births of their children? They could have asked them to pay fines and that way they could have kept the families together, but they didn't do that.\"\n\nThe region around the Turkmenistan-Uzbekistan border is known as Khorezm to Uzbeks and Dashoguz to Turkmen. Copies of Niyazov's \"Ruhnama\" and the Turkmen flag are located at the entrance of every mosque and Russian Orthodox church. Believers must touch the \"Ruhnama\" prior to entering the building. In 2006 the government replaced ethnic Uzbek imam-hatybs with ethnic Turkmens in Dashoguz. Uzbeks comprise over 50% of the population of Dashoguz. Norwegian human rights activist Igor Rotar said, \"Historically, in the Soviet times for example, most imam-hatybs in this region were [Uzbeks]. But now most of [them] are Turkmen. This is a problem because local Uzbeks complained that Turkmen imams have no good education and prefer that imam-hatybs [are] Uzbeks.\" In the Kunya-Urgench district in Dashoguz Uzbek imam-hatybs were not allowed to work at Islamic cemeteries and holy sites. All sermons are required to begin with a praise of Niyazov.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40982195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40982195", "title": "UPUSA v Komming Knitting", "text": "UPUSA v Komming Knitting\n\nIn UPUSA v Komming Knitting, an important case in South African labour law, heard by the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA), the Commissioner extended the right to access the workplace, together with the right to deductions of union subscriptions, to a union which, at the time of the award, represented just seven employees out of 31. The Commissioner made this decision on the basis\n\n\nThe Commissioner held that the union seemed capable of recruiting a majority of the workers at the workplace.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35135262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35135262", "title": "Volkert Simon Maarten van der Willigen", "text": "Volkert Simon Maarten van der Willigen\n\nVolkert Simon Maarten van der Willigen (Rockanje, 9 May 1822 – Haarlem, 19 February 1878), sometimes referred to as Volcardus Simon Martinus van der Willigen, was a Dutch mathematician, physicist and professor.\n\nVolkert was son of the minister Johannes van der Willigen (1777–1857) and his wife Gerarde Maria Elsabé Bodde (1795–1865). He was the nephew of the Dutch patriot and writer Adriaan van der Willigen.\n\nHe studied at the \"Hoogeschool Leiden\" (the current Leiden University) and promoted in 1847 with his dissertation \"De aberratione lucis\" (on the aberrations of the light). After graduating he became teacher at the Latin school in Amsterdam. In 1848 he was appointed to professor in the mathematics and physics and philosophy at Athenaeum Illustre in Deventer. He accepted his appointment with the lauratio \"Over natuur- en sterrekundig onderzoek\" (On physical and astronomical research). In 1857 he became a member of the Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van Wetenschappen (Netherlands Royal Academy of Sciences).\n\nWhen the Athenaeum Illustre of Deventer was abolished in 1864, he was appointed conservator of the Physical Cabinet of the Teylers Museum in Haarlem where Jacob Gijsbertus Samuël van Breda had resigned his post nine months earlier. Contrary to Van Breda however, Van der Willigen refused to accept the responsibility for the Paleontological-Mineralogical cabinet alongside his duties for the Physical cabinet, and that position was later filled by Tiberius Cornelis Winkler. Thus free to devote himself to the instrument collection and physics experiments, in the years that he spent at Teylers, Van der Willigen published 51 papers.\n\nAs a scientist, Van der Willigen did significant work in the research on physical units – where he tried to use the wavelength of light to set a new and trustworthy standard for a unit of distance. In those days there was insufficient data on the reliability of measurement units because errors had been made in the standards based on the circumference of the earth. The Dutch Minister of the Interior had requested the Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van Wetenschappen in 1851 to come up with a new standard for both length and weight. Inspired by this discussion and a publication by the Swedish scientist Anders Ångström in 1855, Van der Willigen decided to dedicate himself first to the determination of the refractive index and the wavelength of light, in order to be able to more accurately define the unit of length. In the inner garden of the Museum, he had a small observatory built in 1866/1867, where he set up several precision instruments to determine the latitude (zenith telescope) and time (clock). There he also kept an astronomical regulator, heliostat, spectroscope, diffraction gratings, microscope with micrometer, balance, thermometers and barometers. He also ordered the standards of length (glass) and weight (copper). Combining these instruments he tried to determine a standard of length by use of a seconds pendulum (initially a Foucault pendulum, later he ordered a Repsold reversible pendulum which arrived shortly after his death). Besides his work on measurements, he also purchased acoustics instruments, on which he gave a series of lectures in the museum.\n\nVan der Willigen became active in Haarlem society and was a member of the Haarlem city council from 1864 (the year of his arrival) to the year of his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "4261210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4261210", "title": "Xmark93", "text": "Xmark93\n\nXmark93 is a standardized benchmarking tool for measuring the performance of computer systems running the X Window System. It was developed by the SPEC XPC group in 1993.\n\nXmark93 allows systems evaluators and vendors to compare the performance of X server/hardware systems for a broad set of X basic functions, covering a wide range of applications. The benchmark provides a standardized method for summarizing \"X11perf\" results, providing a single-number measure of overall X11 server/hardware performance.\n\nXmark93 is derived by calculating the ratio between the geometrically weighted mean of the 447 individual \"X11perf\" tests for the server/hardware being evaluated and the corresponding results from a Sun Microsystems SPARCstation 1. Weightings for each of the \"X11perf\" tests were obtained by a survey of X11 technical experts. The weightings reflect the experts' ratings of the relative importance of individual X11perf operations within a wide mix of applications.\n"}
{"id": "22652649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22652649", "title": "Yr Australydd", "text": "Yr Australydd\n\nYr Australydd was an Australian monthly newspaper in the Welsh language published in Victoria between 1866 and 1872. Its name translates as \"The Australian\".\n\nThe newspaper was edited by Rev. William Meirion Evans and Theophilus Williams, and priced at 6d per issue. Its precise circulation is unknown, but estimated at several hundred.\n\n\"Yr Australydd\"’s intended readership were, obviously, Welsh Australians. It was more specifically linked to the Welsh Calvinistic Methodist community, and devoted between a sixth and a quarter of its content to theological writing. The newspaper's aim was also to encourage a sense of Welshness among its readers, by maintaining the language and promoting Welsh culture and literature. In its inaugural edition, editors explained that their objective was to \"gwasanaethu ein cenedl mewn llenyddiaeth, moesoldeb a chrefydd\" (\"serve our nation in literature, morality and religion\"). They requested and printed literary contributions from readers: poetry and short stories, as well as a serialised novel, \"Cymro yn Awstralia\" (\"A Welshman in Australia\", 1870).\n\nThe newspaper also printed news from Wales in small quantity, accounting for about 3% of its content overall.\n\nPublication began in Ballarat, was transferred to Melbourne in April 1871, and ceased in 1872, for reasons which remain unclear. In 1874, it was replaced by \"Yr Ymwelydd\", a similar newspaper edited by Rev. Evans.\n\n"}
